 Case Number:  23SMCV04299    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Purnell, et
al., v. Public Storage, et al.
CASE NO.:                23SMCV04299
MOTION:                  Motion
for Summary Judgment/Adjudication
HEARING DATE:   12/10/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
A party may move for summary judgment in any action or
proceeding if it is contended the action has no merit or that there is no
defense to the action or proceeding. (CCP, § 437c(a).) “The purpose of the law
of summary judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the
parties' pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations,
trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  
 
“A party may move for summary adjudication as to one or
more causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one
or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party
contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there is no affirmative
defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an affirmative
defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a claim for
damages, as specified in¿Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more defendants
either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs.”¿(CCP,¿§
437c(f)(1).)¿If a party seeks summary adjudication as an alternative to a
request for summary judgment, the request must be clearly made in the notice of
the motion. (Gonzales v. Superior Court¿(1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 1542,
1544.)¿ “[A] party may move for summary adjudication of a legal issue or a
claim for damages other than punitive damages that does not completely
dispose of a cause of action, affirmative defense, or issue of duty
pursuant to” subdivision (t). (CCP,¿§ 437c(t).)¿ 
 
To prevail, the evidence submitted must show there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.¿(CCP, §¿437c(c).)¿The motion cannot succeed unless
the evidence leaves no room for conflicting inferences as to material facts;
the court has no power to weigh one inference against another or against other
evidence. (Murillo v. Rite Stuff Food Inc. (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th
833, 841.) In determining whether the facts give rise to a triable issue of
material fact, “[a]ll doubts as to whether any material, triable, issues of
fact exist are to be resolved in favor of the party opposing summary judgment…”
(Gold v. Weissman (2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 1195, 1198-99.) “In other
words, the facts alleged in the evidence of the party opposing summary judgment
and the reasonable inferences there from must be accepted as true.” (Jackson
v. County of Los Angeles (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 171, 179.) However, if
adjudication is otherwise proper the motion “may not be denied on grounds of
credibility,” except when¿a material fact is the witness’s¿state of mind and
“that fact is sought to be established solely by the [witness’s] affirmation
thereof.” (CCP, § 437c(e).)¿ 
 
Once the moving party has met their burden, the burden
shifts to the opposing party “to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.” (CCP §
437c(p)(1).) “[T]here¿is no
obligation on the opposing party... to establish anything by affidavit unless
and until the moving party has by affidavit stated facts establishing every
element... necessary to sustain a judgment in his favor.”¿(Consumer Cause,
Inc. v.¿SmileCare¿(2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454, 468.)¿ 
¿ 
“The pleadings play a key role in a summary judgment
motion. The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to
delimit the scope of the issues and to¿frame¿the outer measure of materiality
in a summary judgment proceeding.” (Hutton v. Fidelity National Title Co.¿(2013)
213 Cal.App.4th 486, 493, quotations and citations omitted.) “Accordingly, the
burden of a defendant moving for summary judgment only requires that he or she
negate plaintiff's theories of liability¿as alleged in the complaint;
that is, a moving party need not refute liability on some theoretical
possibility not included in the pleadings.” (Ibid.)¿ 
 
Analysis
 
            Defendant
Public Storage moves for summary judgment against Plaintiff Deborah Purnell’s complaint,
or alternatively, summary adjudication on the following issues: 
 
1. First cause of action (labeled
as “fraud” in the caption, but contains allegations of violation of Civil Code
section 1942.4); 
2. Second cause of action for
“tortious breach of warranty of habitability;” 
3. Third cause of action for
“breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment;” 
4. Fourth cause of action for
“nuisance;” 
5. Fifth cause of action for
“Business & Professions Code § 17200 et seq;” 
6. Sixth cause of action for
“negligence and breach of contract;” 
7. Seventh cause of action for
“fraud and malice;” and 
8. Eighth cause of action for
“intentional negligence.” 
 
Plaintiff filed an untimely
opposition to the motion on December 4, 2024, which is only four court days
from the December 10, 2024, hearing date. (See CCP § 1005(b) [providing for at
least a nine court-day period from service of opposition to the hearing date] At
the December 3, 2024, ex parte hearing, the Court agreed to exercise its
discretion and consider the opposition despite its effect on Defendant’s
ability to respond in reply.
 
In its motion, Defendant argues
that each cause of action is barred by the statute of limitations. In
general, a statute of limitations begins to run “when the cause of action is
complete with all of its elements,” namely, wrongdoing, causation, and
resulting harm.¿ (Norgart v. Upjohn Co. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 383,
397.) 
 
The statute of limitations on all
of plaintiff’s claims are, at most, three or four years. Claims for damage to
personal property generally have a three-year statute of limitations period.
(CCP § 338(3).) Civil Code section 1942.4 has either a one-year statute (per
CCP § 340(a)) or a three-year statute for statutory violations (CCP § 338). The
nuisance claimed here is also covered by the three-year statute of limitations.
(CCP§338(b); cf. Nestle v. City of Santa Monica (1972) 6 Cal.3d 920, 937
[applying “continuing wrong” theory; where the nuisance is “continuing in
nature, every repetition of the wrong may create further liability”].) The
statute of limitations for fraud is three years, and states that the cause of
action is not deemed to have accrued “until the discovery, by the aggrieved
party, of the facts constituting the fraud or mistake.” (CCP § 338(d).) A claim
accrues upon discovery of the facts constituting the deceit. (CCP § 338(d); see
Fox v. Ethicon Endo- Surgery, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 797, 807 [inquiry
notice].) The statute of limitations for a claim arising from a breach of
written contract is four years. (CCP §337(1).) The statute of limitations for a
UCL violation is also four years. (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17208.)
 
The complaint alleges Defendant Public
Storage led Plaintiff into believing that certain vehicle(s) would be stored on
its premises in a fenced and/or housed manner that would preserve the integrity
of the vehicles. (Compl., ¶ 7.) Public Storage allegedly promised to make the
necessary changes and/or repairs to correct and/or alleviate compromises to the
premises’ security but refused to fulfill that promise. (Id.) Plaintiff timely
paid rents for the space. (¶¶ 8, 13, 14.) However, Public Storage repeatedly
allowed vandals to occupy and/or destroy the vehicles and property of tenants
over the span of ten years. (¶ 8.)  
 
The complaint alleges that for more
than ten years Public Storage knew of vandals damaging and/or destroying the
Vehicles parked at the Public Storage facility. (¶ 10.) Public Storage watched
vandals destroy Plaintiff’s “church truck” for over a span of more than ten years,
which facilitated and/or granted permission for the vandals to destroy the
church truck on a daily basis. (¶ 11.) Public Storage did absolutely nothing to
prevent and/or deter vandalism, theft and/or countless forms of destructive
behavior onto numerous vehicles over the years. (¶ 12.) Public Storage allowed
a large portion of the chain link fence which surrounded the storage property
to remain broken and/or knocked down so that vandals could return to the lot on
a daily basis and spray paint, live in and/or vandalize vehicles. (¶ 12.) By
the time Plaintiff first visited “the truck” a year or two after leasing the
space, “it had already been vandalized to such an extent that the insurance
company would not renew the coverage and the vandals ransacked the inside of
the truck, had already started taking parts of the truck and flattened the
tires for good measure.” (¶ 16, see Exs. 3-25 [damage to church truck].) 
 
Public Storage claimed to have no
duty to provide a safe, habitable environment for the vehicles and that it was
the sole duty of the renter to make repairs to the premises and/or their
vehicles which were damaged while on Defendant’s property. (¶¶ 9-35.) The complaint
further alleges that Public Storage refused to provide the “habitable premises”
that is required “under all landlord/tenant leases.” (¶ 10.) Public Storage
stated that it had no obligation to care for the premises that it was leasing
to do so in such a way as to monitor, repair, replace, deter and/or supervise
the spaces in the yard where vehicles were located. (¶ 12.) Public Storage used
an “insurance clause” to justify bever repairing the Vehicles and the yard. (¶
14.) Defendant also refused to repair the points of entry onto the lot where
vandals entered. (¶ 11.) In fact, it took “literally ten years” just for
Defendant to repair the fence. (¶ 14.) Plaintiff allegedly took photos in 2019 showing
“Plaintiff’s vehicle” and other vandalized vehicles. (¶ 14.) Public Storage refused
to pay for the damages and refused to prevent the vandals from destroying the
church vehicle from 2011 to the present date. 
 
In conjunction with the above
allegations, Defendant presents sufficient evidence demonstrating that there is
no dispute of material fact concerning its statute of limitations defense. As
alleged in the complaint, Plaintiff noticed that the fencing was down and that
the vehicle was damaged at the latest in 2013. (UMF 8-12.) Plaintiff first
encountered the harm and identified its likely cause in 2013. Any such claims
would therefore expire in 2016 or 2017. By the time the Complaint was filed on
September 14, 2023, each of the claims had expired.
 
 Plaintiff fails to submit any dispute of
material fact as to the limitations defense. (UMF 8-12.) Plaintiff can only
“confirm” that she did not “identify it as a legal binding crime at the time”,
that she “saw a lot of things but the fact that she continued to pay rents to
Public Storage . . ..” (UMF 10.) This response confirms the material fact that
Plaintiff had actual notice of the alleged damage to the truck in 2013. (Id.) Plaintiff
also attempts to dispute the first through sixth UMFs, which do not
apply to the defense. (See UMF 1-6.) Moreover, Plaintiff’s cited evidence does
not contradict any of the material facts asserted. (Id.) 
 
Furthermore, the Court does not
find any support for tolling the statute of limitations.  The “delayed discovery rule” may be invoked
where a plaintiff establishes facts showing that a reasonable person under the
circumstances would not have had information sufficient to be put on inquiry
concerning defendant's negligence.¿(Fox v. Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc.
(2005) 35 Cal.4th 797, 807-809.) The discovery rule only delays accrual until
the plaintiff has, or should have, inquiry notice of the cause of action. (Id.
at 807–808, citing Gutierrez v. Mofid (1985) 39 Cal.3d 892,
896–897.)  As such, when a potential plaintiff suspects an injury has
been wrongfully caused, she must conduct a reasonable investigation of all
potential causes of that injury. If such an investigation would have disclosed
a factual basis for a cause of action, the statute of limitations begins to run
on that cause of action when the investigation would have brought such
information to light. Here, there are no undisputed material facts supporting the
delayed discovery rule. 
 
Defendant meets its initial burden
to show no dispute of material fact exists as to its statute of limitations
defense against each claim. Plaintiff, in turn, fails to identify any dispute
of material fact on the record. Accordingly, the motion for summary judgment is
GRANTED.
 
Defendant to prepare a proposed judgment.