 Case Number:  23CHCV00683    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 4-12-24
Case #23CHCV00683 , Cecilia Thompson, et al. vs. White House
Recover and Detox LLC, et al.
Trial Date: N/A
 
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
Cecilia Thompson
RESPONDING
PARTY: No timely response was filed
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Defendant’s
responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production, as well as sanctions
 
RULING:
Plaintiff’s motion to compel responses to requests for production is granted.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
On January 4,
2024, Plaintiff Cecilia Thompson (Plaintiff) served Defendant Kyle Perez (Defendant)
with Requests for Production. Responses to the requests were due on or before
February 8, 2024. Defendant failed to serve any responses by the deadline. On
February 13, 2024, Plaintiff served a meet and confer letter on Defendant
advising of the failure to respond and requesting verified responses by
February 20, 2024. No responses were ever received by Plaintiff. Plaintiff’s
counsel attempted to call Defendant on March 6 and 7, but Defendant did not
answer. Plaintiff filed this motion on March 8, 2024. Plaintiff seeks an order
compelling responses to the requests for production. Plaintiff also seeks sanctions
in the amount of $2,315 against Defendant.
 
The court
declines to consider the defendant’s opposition papers filed on April 8, 2024.  Defendant does not deny receiving the motion
to compel, and only complains that he did not have enough time to respond.  Defendant could have filed an ex parte
application with the court asking to extend the time to respond but did not do
so. When the court inquired about this at the hearing for a previous motion on
April 9, defendant claimed that he was out of state. However, defendant’s
points and authorities and supporting declaration list his address as
Chatsworth, California. Additionally, all three oppositions filed by defendant
were signed on April 4, and his declarations state that they were executed in
Los Angeles. Regardless, being out of state is no impediment to remotely filing
documents and appearing in court, as defendant did on April 9.
 
ANALYSIS
A propounding
party may move to compel responses to requests for production of documents
where the responding party fails to provide responses. (CCP § 2031.300.) The
responding party must provide responses within thirty days after the demand is
served. (CCP § 2031.030(c)(2) & (3).) The responding party waives all
objections, including privilege and work product, by failing to timely respond
to requests for production of documents. (CCP § 2031.300.)
 
Defendant has
failed to respond to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production. Plaintiff has moved
for an order compelling Defendant’s response to these Requests. The Court
grants Plaintiff’s motion to compel responses to the Requests for Production.
 
Sanctions
CCP § 2023.030
authorizes the Court to issue sanctions against a party engaging in conduct
that is a misuse of the discovery process. Failure to respond to discovery,
evasive responses, and objections lacking substantial justification are
“misuses of the discovery process.” (CCP § 2023.010, subd. (d)-(f).)
 
Plaintiff has
requested sanctions in the amount of $2,315 against Defendant for having to
bring this motion. The amount was based on Plaintiff’s counsel spending 1.1
hours preparing the motion at $550 an hour, plus an anticipated 3 hours
reviewing Defendant’s opposition and preparing a reply, plus the $60 filing
fee. (Alexander Decl., ¶ 7.) Because no timely opposition was filed, it was
unnecessary for Plaintiff to review the opposition or prepare a reply beyond
the notice of non-opposition. Therefore, the Court will not assess the
additional 3 hours requested by Plaintiff. That means that the sanctions would
be 1.1 hours at $550 an hour, plus the $60 filing fee, for a total of $665 in
sanctions. 
 
Plaintiff’s
requests for sanctions against Defendant is granted in the amount of $665 for
this motion.
 
ORDER
1.      Plaintiff’s
motion to compel responses to requests for production is granted.
2.      Defendant
is ordered to serve responses within twenty (20) days.
3.      Defendant
is ordered to pay sanctions in the total amount of $665. Defendant is ordered
to pay these sanctions to Plaintiff’s counsel within twenty (20) days.