  Case Number:  20CHCV00500    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 4-12-24
Case #20CHCV00500,
Strategic Funding Source, Inc. vs. Sunset Pools Custom Design, Inc., et al.
Trial Date: N/A
 
MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS, ETC.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
Guy Vaughn
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff Strategic Funding Source, Inc., d/b/a Kapitus
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Defendant has
requested that the Court quash the service of summons; vacate and set aside the
default judgment against him; recall and quash writs of execution and abstracts
of judgment and return of funds levied; and dismiss the action
 
RULING:
Motion is denied.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
This is a
breach of contract case filed on August 26, 2020. Default judgment was entered
against Defendants Guy Vaughn (Vaughn) and Sunset Pools Custom Design, Inc., on
November 25, 2020. Vaughn claims that he did not become aware of the judgment
against him until he applied for a home loan in September 2023. Plaintiff
Strategic Funding Source, Inc. (Plaintiff) claims that it mailed notices of the
default to Vaughn at his admitted residence in October 2020 and November 2020,
and he does not deny receiving these notices. Furthermore, Vaughn claims that
he discovered the default in September 2023, but he did not file his motion to
quash service of summons until March 8, 2024.
 
Plaintiff
personally served Vaughn via registered process served on September 5, 2020, at
9:58 a.m. (Paulette Sands Decl., Ex. 1.) Paulette Sands, the process server who
served Vaughn, represents that she served an individual who identified himself
as Guy Vaughn at Vaughn’s address on the date and time in question. (Sand
Decl., ¶ 4.) Vaughn argues in his motion that she could not have served him at
that date and time because he was at a meeting for football coaches and
volunteers at West Ranch High School starting at 9 a.m. on September 5. (Vaughn
Decl.) Vaughn also provided the declaration of the head football coach of that
high school team indicating that Vaughn was at the meeting from 9 a.m. to 11
a.m. that day. (Varner Decl., ¶ 4.) In a notice of errata filed on March 19,
2024, Vaughn included the Exhibit A for both declarations, purportedly the
football team’s schedule from 2020 showing that there was a meeting on
September 5.
 
ANALYSIS
Vaughn argues
that the motion to quash service of summons should be granted because he has
provided evidence that he was not home at the alleged time of service. Next, he
argues that if the Court quashes the service of summons, then the judgment is
not valid and should be set aside and the Court should recall and quash the
Abstract of Judgment. Finally, he requests that the action be dismissed because
service was not timely
 
Plaintiff
argues in its opposition that a valid return of service of service creates a
rebuttable presumption of proper service of summons. Next, Plaintiff argues
that Vaughn’s motion is untimely both to quash the service of summons and to
vacate the default. Finally, Plaintiff argues that there is no credible,
admissible evidence supporting the invocation of the Court’s inherent equitable
powers.
 
Vaughn argues
in reply that Plaintiff’s evidence of service of process has been rebutted via
the two declarations that he provided. Next, Vaughn argues that allowing the
default to stand would deprive Vaughn of his due process rights. He also argues
that default without proper service is void.
 
The Court is
not convinced by Vaughn’s argument that he has rebutted the presumption of a proper
service of summons. The return of process is prima facie evidence of proper
service. (Los Angeles v. Morgan (1951) 105 Cal.2d 726, 731.) The proof
of service filed by Plaintiffs conforms with the requirements of CCP §§ 415.10
and 417.10 and is facially valid. The address at which Vaughn was allegedly
served is admittedly his home. (Motion at p. 5.)
 
The evidence
which Vaughn has submitted to show that he was not at home consists of his own
declaration, the declaration of the head football coach, and a calendar with a
date stamp of March 19, 2024, in the upper left corner (the date that the
notice of errata was filed). This evidence does not appear to be strong enough
to rebut the presumption of proper service of summons. First, Vaughn could not authenticate
the calendar himself, as he did not create it. Next, Varner’s authentication of
the calendar just states that he created the calendar at the time. (Varner
Decl., ¶ 5.) Even assuming that the calendar is true and accurate, this is not
proof that Vaughn attended the meeting or that the meeting took place on the
date and time specified. In other words, this is likely not sufficient proof to
rebut the primate facie evidence of proof of service. However, Vaughn’s motion
can certainly be denied on timeliness grounds, as discussed below.
 
To the extent
that Vaughn is requesting that the judgment be set aside, the time for filing
such a request would have been within six months of the entry of judgment, as
the judgment was not invalid on its face. (See CCP § 473(b), (d).) “In
determining whether an order is void for purposes of [CCP § 473(d)], courts
distinguish between orders that are void on the face of the record and orders
that appear valid on the face of the record but are shown to be invalid through
consideration of extrinsic evidence.” (Pittman v. Beck Park Apartments Ltd.
(2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1009, 1020.) Vaughn has not shown that the judgment was
invalid on its face or invalid through extrinsic evidence. Judgment was entered
in 2020, so the six months have more than passed. 
 
Even if the
Court found that the service of summons was invalid, California courts have
acknowledged the two-year limitation period for a motion for relief from a
default judgment that is alleged to be void for lack of valid service of
process from CCP § 473.5. (Gibble v. Car–Lene Research, Inc. (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 295, 301, fn. 3, citing Rogers v. Silverman (1989) 216
Cal.App.3d 1114, 1120-1124 [where a motion to vacate is made on the ground that
the default judgment is void because of improper service, the two-year
limitation period contained in section 473.5 (motion to set aside default and
defend action where service of summons has not resulted in actual notice)
applies by analogy].) Judgment in this case was entered in 2020. The two-year
limitation would have been up in 2022. This motion was not filed until March
2024. It is clearly untimely under those cases.
 
If the Court
had found that there was extrinsic fraud in the service of summons, Vaughn
cites Munoz v. Lopez (1969) 275 Cal.App.2d 178 in support of his
contention that the time limits do not apply if there was extrinsic fraud in
the service of summons. First, Vaughn has not provided solid proof there was
extrinsic fraud in the service of summons. Secondly, the Munoz court
actually stated that the “time limit for the filing of such a motion or
separate suit is a reasonable time from discovery of the default judgment
irrespective of when it may actually have been entered.” (Id. at 181.) Vaughn
waited six months from the alleged time of discovery in September 2023 to the
filing of this motion in March 2024. That does not appear to be a reasonable
amount of time given the urgent nature of discovering that a default had been
entered against him.
 
Furthermore, Vaughn
has not made a showing of a meritorious defense as required by case law. (See Stiles
v. Wallis (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 1143, 1147–1148 [extrinsic mistake case]; In
re Marriage of Stevenot (1984) 154 Cal.App.3d 1051, 1071 [applying Stiles
factors in extrinsic fraud case].) This is expanded upon in Rodriguez v. Cho
(2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 742, which highlights three elements for relief. “[T]he
party seeking equitable relief on the grounds of extrinsic fraud or mistake
must show three elements: (1) a meritorious defense; (2) a satisfactory excuse
for not presenting a defense in the first place; and (3) diligence in seeking
to set aside the default judgment once discovered.” (Id. at 750.) 
 
For the first element,
Vaughn simply stated that “I have a meritorious defense to this action because
it [sic] is not liable to Plaintiff for the sum sought in this case.” (Vaughn
Decl., ¶ 10.) This is not sufficient. Defendant also cites Peralta v.
Heights Med. Ctr. (1988) 485 U.S. 80, 84-85 in support of his argument that
he does not need a meritorious defense. However, this case is inapposite
because it was a federal case applying Texas law, and it only stated that a
judgment that is entered without notice or services violates the federal Due
Process Clause.
 
Vaughn also
failed to show diligence in seeking to set aside the default judgment because
he discovered it in September 2023 and did not file this motion until March
2024.
 
Based on the
foregoing, Vaughn’s motion is denied because it was untimely, and even if he had
made a showing of extrinsic fraud, he has not made a showing that he had a
meritorious defense or acted with diligence in getting it set aside.
 
Moving party to
give notice.