  Case Number:  23CHCV01619    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 2-22-24
Case # 23CHCV01619, Jessica Andres, et al. vs.
Sebastian Keefe
Trial Date: N/A
 
MOTION TO STRIKE
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Vivian Ajaye
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs Jessica Andres and Sebastian
Keefe
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Motion to Strike
·        
Claims for Punitive Damages [Comp., ¶¶ 16, 26, and 39; and
Paragraph 3 of the prayer]
·        
Request for Attorney Fees [Comp., ¶ 16; and
Paragraph 6 of the prayer]
 
RULING: Granted with leave to amend
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION 
Plaintiffs Jessica Andres and Sebastian Keefe
(Plaintiffs) filed this case on May 31, 2023. Plaintiff have alleged that a
boulder on Defendant Vivian Ajaye’s (Defendant) property rolled down and
crashed into a retaining wall on Plaintiffs’ property. Plaintiffs also allege
that their home was damaged by the boulder. Plaintiffs allege that they filed
this action after they could not resolve the matter with Defendant.
 
Plaintiffs’ complaint alleges three causes of action for
(1) Trespass; (2) Private Nuisance and Encroachment by Private Nuisance; and
(3) Negligence. 
 
Defendant filed her motion to strike on September 27,
2023. Plaintiffs oppose Defendant’s motion. Defendant has moved to strike
Plaintiffs’ request for punitive damages and attorney fees.
 
This Court may strike from the complaint any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter. Under CCP § 435, “[a]ny party, within the time
allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to
strike the whole or any part thereof.” Under CCP § 436(a), “[t]he court may,
upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion,
and upon terms it deems proper . . . [s]trike out any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading.”
 
Plaintiffs argue in their opposition that Defendant’s motion
to strike was untimely and therefore should not be considered. However, as the
issues raised in the motion to strike will likely be addressed again at a later
date, the Court will consider the merits of the motion.
 
            Punitive
Damages
 
Punitive damages are governed by Civ. Code § 3294: “In an
action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it is
proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages,
may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing the
defendant.” (Civ. Code § 3294(a).)
 
Plaintiffs’ complaint alleges that Defendant acted with
malice or fraud (See Comp., ¶ 26), but does not explain how Defendant’s actions
in not addressing the issue with the boulder amounts to malice or fraud beyond ordinary
negligence. Additionally, none of the allegations in Plaintiffs’ complaint indicate
that any fraud took place.
 
The requests for punitive damages is stricken from the
complaint.
 
            Attorney
Fees
 
Attorney’s fees are only recoverable when authorized by
contract, statute or law. (CCP § 1021; Reid v. Valley Restaurants, Inc.
(1957) 48 Cal.2d 606, 610.) In the absence of allegations demonstrating that
plaintiff is entitled to recover attorney’s fees, a request for attorney’s fees
is improper. (Wiley v. Rhodes (1990) 223 Cal.App.3d 1470, 1474.)
 
There is no indication in Plaintiffs’ complaint that Plaintiffs
are entitled to the recovery of attorney fees. Plaintiffs cite CCP § 1021.5 as
a basis for attorney fees, but that deals with attorney fees in case that
involve the public interest. This case involves a private dispute between two
landowners. Plaintiffs’ opposition also does not indicate how the public interest
is affected by their dispute with Defendant.
 
The request for attorney fees is stricken from the
complaint.
 
Plaintiffs are given 30 days leave to amend their complaint.
 
Moving party to give notice to all parties.