  Case Number:  23STCV11085    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT










 




PAULA
  M HEIL,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
ANDREI V SERPIK, et al. 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV11085
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO QUASH
  SERVICE OF SUMMONS
 
8:30 a.m.
April 26, 2024
Dept. 56



 
This is an
action for malicious prosecution and slander of title. 
 
Defendant Serpik
requests that the Court grant his Motion to Quash on the grounds that the
substitute service was defective. 
Defendant asserts that Plaintiff failed to exercise reasonable diligence
in attempting personal service, and that Plaintiff was aware, or easily could
have learned, where Mr. Serpik resides as it is a matter of public record.  (Serpik Decl. ¶ 2.)  Defendant states that Plaintiff relied on an address
of a large office building that houses many businesses, only one of which is
the law firm that employs Mr. Serpik.  (Serpik
Decl., ¶ 3.)  Defendant states that since
Mr. Serpik works from home and rarely comes to the office, he was unaware of
Plaintiff’s attempts to effectuate service at the office.  (Serpik Decl., ¶ 4.)  Defendant states that Plaintiff cannot claim
“reasonable diligence” to personally serve Mr. Serpik where her process server
repeatedly returned to a business address where Mr. Serpik was clearly not present.  
 
Further,
Defendant states that even if Plaintiff had exerted reasonable diligence to
effect substituted service, the address at which substituted service was
attempted was not Serpik’s usual place of business because he works from home
and does not frequent the office where the substitute service was attempted.  Defendant states that although this office
location is listed as his place of business on the State Bar website, this is
insufficient for establishing it as his usual place of business for service purposes.  Defendant challenges Plaintiff’s reliance on
this address because she should have made reasonable efforts to discover his
actual usual mailing address or place of business rather than depending on an
address merely associated with his employer.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff
contends that he exercised reasonable diligence in attempting to personally
serve Mr. Serpik.  Plaintiff points to
the declaration of the process server, Behrouz Sarbarziha, who states that he made
several unsuccessful attempts to serve Defendant at the address listed on the
California State Bar website on May 19, 22, and 23, 2023.  Following these attempts, on May 24, 2023, the
receptionist at Mr. Serpik’s office stated she could accept service on his
behalf, which led to him being sub-served.  On the same day, Plaintiff’s attorney, Kousha
Berokim, emailed Mr. Serpik confirming that he had been served through his
office.  Plaintiff argues that there is
no legal requirement to first attempt service at a defendant’s home and that
the law merely requires showing reasonable diligence to effect personal
service. 
 
In reply, Defendant
argues that Plaintiff failed to properly verify his “usual place of business”
for the purposes of service, under Code of Civil Procedure § 415.20(b).  Rather than serving Mr. Serpik at his
residence, where he was most likely to receive actual notice, Defendant notes
that the process server made multiple unsuccessful attempts at an address
listed on the California State Bar website and did not confirm whether this
address was indeed Mr. Serpik’s usual place of business.  Further, Defendant states the proof of service
indicates that the documents were left at the main front desk of the building,
not directly with Mr. Serpik or at a verified place of his business.
 
When
a defendant challenges jurisdiction by bringing a motion to quash, the burden
is on the plaintiff to establish jurisdiction by proving, by a preponderance of
evidence, the facts requisite to an effective service.  (School
Dist. of Okaloosa County v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th
1126, 1131.)
 
Reasonable
diligence is typically satisfied where there are “two or three attempts to
personally serve a defendant at a proper place” [Espindola v. Nunez
(1988) 199 Cal.App.3d 1389, 1392], or there are a “number of honest attempts to
learn defendant’s whereabouts or his address by inquiry” and use of public
records.  (Board of Trustees of the
Leland Stanford Junior University v. Ham (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 330, 337.)   
 
Strict
compliance with the statutes governing service is not required.  “In deciding whether service was valid, the
statutory provisions regarding service of process ‘should be liberally
construed to effectuate service and uphold the jurisdiction of the court if
actual notice has been received by the defendant.’  [Citation.]  Thus, substantial compliance is sufficient.”  (Dill v. Berquist Construction Co.
(1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1436-1437.)   
 
Filing a proof
of service by a registered process server creates a rebuttable presumption that
service was proper.  (American Express
Centurion Bank v. Zara (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 383, 390; Evid. Code, § 647
[“The return of a process server registered pursuant to . . . the Business and
Professions Code upon process or notice establishes a presumption, affecting
the burden of producing evidence, of the facts stated in the return”].)  However, the presumption only arises if the
proof of service complies with the statutory requirements regarding such
proofs.  (Dill, supra, 24
Cal.App.4th at pp. 1441-1442.)  Proof of
service of summons may be impeached by evidence that contradicts it. (City
of Los Angeles v. Morgan (1951) 105 Cal.App.2d 726, 731.) 
 
Based on the
facts presented, the Court finds the proof of service by Behrouz Sarbaziha to
be sufficient to establish the presumption that service was proper as to
Defendant.  Mr. Sarbaziha made three
attempts to personally serve Defendant at his place of business before serving the
receptionist, a white woman with light hair, 30 years old, 5’5’’, 130 lbs.
 
Defendant fails
to rebut the presumption as he does not provide any evidence establishing that 6100
Center Dr. Ste 1100 Los Angeles, California 90045 is not his address or place
of business.  Defendant claims that he
works from home and rarely comes to the office such that he was unaware of
Plaintiff’s attempts to effectuate service, but this is insufficient to show
that this was not Defendant’s “dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual
place of business, or usual mailing address.” (CCP § 415.20, subd. (b).)  Further, although Defendant claims that
Plaintiff was aware, or easily could have learned of Defendant’s residence, as
it is a matter of public record, Defendant provides no authority that requires
a plaintiff to serve a defendant in his residence.  Additionally, Defendant did not establish
that he is no longer associated with the address served or did not have actual
knowledge of the suit.  Therefore, there
was substantial compliance and actual notice of service on Defendant.  (See Dill, supra, 24
Cal.App.4th at p. 1437 [“when the defendant is an individual, that individual
is the person to be served, and evidence that the mailed summons actually
reached that individual is sufficient to establish valid service, even though
the summons had been signed for by someone who did not have authority to do
so”].) 
 
The Court
declines to rule on Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections as Plaintiff failed to
file them separately.  (See California
Rules of Court rule 3.1354 subd. (b) [“All written objections to evidence must
be served and filed separately from the other papers in support of or in
opposition to the motion.”]  A trial
court acts “well within its discretion in overruling the objections for failing
to meet these standards.”  (Schmidt v.
Citibank, N.A. (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 1109, 1118.)
 
Thus,
Defendant Andrei Serpik’s Motion to Quash is DENIED.
 
Plaintiff
Paula M. Heil is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
          
Dated this 26th day of April 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 