  Case Number:  21STCV36099    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  15, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV36099




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant The Hertz Corporation




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiffs
  Eduard Davtyan and Grigor Davtyan 



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.      Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment
2.      Memorandum of Points and Authorities
3.      Separate Statement of Undisputed Material
Facts
4.      Evidence in Support of Motion
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
1.      Plaintiffs’ Opposition
2.      Plaintiffs’ Response to Separate Statement
and Plaintiffs’ Statement of Material Facts in Dispute
3.      Plaintiffs’ Evidentiary Objections
4.      Declaration of Hyka H. Karapetian
 
REPLY PAPERS
1.      Reply to Plaintiffs’ Opposition
 
BACKGROUND
 
On September 30, 2021,
Plaintiffs Eduard Davtyan and Grigor Davtyan filed a complaint against
Defendants Matthew Ellison, The Hertz Corporation, and Does 1 to 10 for
negligence and negligent entrustment surrounding a motor vehicle accident. Plaintiffs
allege that Matthew Ellison was driving the subject car, which was rented from
and owned by The Hertz Corporation.
 
Moving Defendant The
Hertz Corporation (Hertz) requests that
the Court grant summary judgment. Hertz argues that the claims against it,
based solely on its ownership of the subject car, are precluded by the Graves
Amendment. Plaintiffs oppose and Hertz replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden
of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material
fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to
find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in
accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”¿(Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) ¿“[T]he party moving for summary
judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of
the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his
burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then
subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of
the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.; Smith v.
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474 [summary judgment
standards held by Aguilar apply to summary adjudication motions].) 
Further, in line with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion
for summary adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise. 
If a triable issue of material fact exists as to the challenged causes of
action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable issue of fact, the
motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise Corp. v. Superior
Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.) 
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore
consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could
reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence in this manner,
the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to identify issues
rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are
indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the
evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the
trial court grant summary judgment based
on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840 [cleaned up];
see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation (2020) 9
Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or summary
adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the light
most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences in
favor of that party”].)            
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
The Court declines to rule on Plaintiff’s objections to the characterization
of the rental agreement as “Matthew Ellison’s operative rental vehicle
agreement with Hertz,” because consideration of such evidence does not impact
the ruling herein.
 
DISCUSSION
Negligence and
Negligent Entrustment 
The
elements of a cause of action for negligence are: (1) a duty on the part of
defendant toward plaintiff; (2) defendant’s breach of that duty; and (3) harm
to the plaintiff caused by that breach. (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1142.) 
Generally, “one who places or entrusts his [or her]
motor vehicle in the hands of one whom he [or she] knows, or from the
circumstances is charged with knowing, is incompetent or unfit to drive, may be
held liable for an injury inflicted by the use made thereof by that driver,
provided the plaintiff can establish that the injury complained of was
proximately caused by the driver's disqualification, incompetency, inexperience
or recklessness.” (Flores v. Enterprise Rent-A-Car Co. (2010) 188
Cal.App.4th 1055, 1063 [quoting Osborn v. Hertz Corp. (1988) 205
Cal.App.3d 703, 708] [alteration in original; citation omitted].) However, “a rental
car agency is not liable for negligent entrustment where the agency has fully
complied with the requirements of [Vehicle Code] sections 14604 and 14608, and
the customer does not appear impaired or otherwise unfit to drive at the time
of rental.” (Flores, supra, 188 Cal.App.4th at 1070.) 
Vehicle Code Section 14608 provides
that a “person shall not rent a motor vehicle to another person unless both of
the following requirements have been met: (1) The person to whom the vehicle is
rented is licensed under this code or is a nonresident who is licensed under
the laws of the state or country of his or her residence. (2) The person
renting to another person has inspected the driver’s license of the person to
whom the vehicle is to be rented and compared either the signature thereon with
that of the person to whom the vehicle is to be rented or the photograph
thereon with the person to whom the vehicle is to be rented.” (Cal. Veh. Code §
14608 (a).)
Vehicle Code Section 14604 provides
that “[n]o owner of a motor vehicle may knowingly allow another person to drive
the vehicle upon a highway unless the owner determines that the person
possesses a valid driver’s license that authorizes the person to operate the
vehicle. …” (Cal. Veh. Code § 14604(a).) “A rental company is deemed to be in
compliance with subdivision (a) if the company rents the vehicle in accordance
with Sections 14608 and 14609.” (Cal. Veh. Code § 14604(b).)
Here, Hertz offers the following facts:
-         
At no point during the rental period was there
any mechanical issues or problems with the rental vehicle. (UMF 5.)
-         
Ellison was not an employee of Hertz and was not
operating the rental vehicle in the course and scope of employment with Hertz
at the time of the subject accident. (UMF 6.) 
-         
Hertz did not negligently supervise Ellison at
the time of the subject accident. (UMF 7.) 
-         
Hertz did not negligently entrust the rental
vehicle to Ellison. (UMF 8.) 
-         
Plaintiffs have no evidence that Hertz
improperly or negligently maintained the rental vehicle or negligently
entrusted the vehicle to Ellison prior to the subject accident. (UMF 9.) 
Hertz’s evidence that it did not negligently
entrust the vehicle to Ellison is only found in the declaration of Emily
Curtis, who states: “I am not aware of any evidence that Hertz negligently
entrusted the rental vehicle to Ellison.” (Curtis Decl. ¶ 7.) There is no
evidence that Hertz complied with the requirements of Vehicle Code sections 14604 and 14608 or
that Ellison did not appear impaired at the time of rental.[1] Therefore, Hertz has
failed to meet its burden of production regarding negligent entrustment. (See Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at 845 (a defendant must present “evidence that would
require such a trier of fact not to find any underlying material fact more
likely than not,” or “may simply point out…that the plaintiff does not possess,
and cannot reasonably obtain, evidence that would allow such a trier of fact to
find any underlying material fact more likely than not.”)[2] 
 
Graves
Amendment
            The Graves Amendment provides in
pertinent part:
“An owner
of a motor vehicle that rents or leases the vehicle to a person … shall not be
liable under the law of any State … by reason of being the owner of the vehicle
… for harm to persons or property that results or arises out of the use,
operation, or possession of the vehicle during the period of the rental or
lease, if— 
(1) the
owner . . . is engaged in the trade or business of renting or leasing motor
vehicles; and 
(2) there
is no negligence or criminal wrongdoing on the part of the owner (or an
affiliate of the owner)”
 
(49 U.S.C.
§30106 (a) [emphasis added].)
 
            There do not appear to be California
authorities on whether “negligence,” as defined in the Graves Amendment,
encompasses negligent entrustment, which itself is a form of vicarious
liability. The Court finds Carton v. General Motors Acceptance Corp. (8th
Cir. 2010) 611 F.3d 451 to be instructive. There, applying the rules of
statutory construction to the Graves Amendment, the court found “no statutory
basis for narrowing the definition of the broad term ‘negligence’ or giving it
any definition other than its ordinary meaning.” (Id. at 458.) The Court
concludes that the Graves Amendment does not preempt a negligent entrustment
claim directly against Hertz. In light of Hertz’s failure to meet its burden
regarding negligent entrustment, the Court finds a triable issue of fact exists
and the Graves Amendment does not preclude liability.[3]
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendant The Hertz Corporation’s Motion
for Summary Judgment is DENIED.
 
            Defendant
is ordered to give notice of this ruling and file a proof of service of such. 
 
 


