

Hearing Date:             November
8, 2023
Case Name:                Angel
v. Monster Energy
Case No.:                    19STCV28457
Motion:                       Motion
for Application of Choice of Law 
Moving Party:             Defendant
Score International, S. de R.L. de C.V
Opposing Party:          Plaintiff
Magda Angel

Tentative Ruling:      The
Motion for Application of Mexican Law is denied. 

             
            This action arises out of injuries sustained by
Plaintiff Magna Angel (Plaintiff) during the 2018 Baja 1000 Race in Ensenada,
Mexico (Race). The Race was owned and operated by Defendant Promote Mexico, LLC
dba Score International (Promote Mexico). On October 30, 2018, Plaintiff
entered into an agreement as an independent contractor with Defendant Monster
Energy Company (Monster Energy) to attend the Race. At the Race, a vehicle
driven by Defendant Morgan Langley (Langley) and owned by COPS Racing, LLC (COPS
Racing) and Langley Productions, Inc. (Langley Productions) struck and injured
Plaintiff. On August 12, 2019, Plaintiff filed her original Complaint against
Defendants Monster Energy, Langley Productions, COPS Racing, and Langley based
on claims of negligence. On August 29, 2022, Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint adding claims of Negligence, and Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and
Retention against Promote Mexico (as Score International), Roger Norman
(Norman), Score International, S de RL de CV (Score-Mexico), COPS Racing,
Langley, and Monster Energy.
            On October 28, 2019,
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Monster Energy filed a Cross-Complaint against
Cross-Defendants Promote Mexico (as Score International), Morgan Langley,
Langley Productions, Inc., and COPS Racing, LLC, alleging causes of action for
(1) express indemnity; (2) breach of contract; (3) implied equitable indemnity;
(4) comparative indemnity; (5) contribution; (6) apportionment; and (7)
declaratory relief. On April 21, 2021, Monster Energy filed a First Amended
Cross-Complaint adding two new parties, Roger Norman and Score International, S
de RL de CV (Score-Mexico).
 
            On January 7, 2020,
Defendant/Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant Promote Mexico filed a
Cross-Complaint against Cross-Defendant Tempt Media, LLC alleging causes of
action for (1) implied equitable indemnity, (2) contribution and indemnity; (3)
declaratory relief, (4) express indemnity, (5) breach of contract, and (6)
breach of contract. On April 9, 2020, Promote Mexico filed a First Amended
Cross-Complaint that added Cross-Defendants Monster Energy, Langley, Langley
Productions, and COPS Racing as cross-defendants. 
 
            On January 13, 2020,
Defendant/Cross-Complaints COPS Racing and Langley filed a Cross-Complaint
against Cross-Defendants Promote Mexico, Norman, and Monster Energy for (1)
express indemnity; (2) breach of contract; (3) implied indemnity; (4)
comparative indemnity; (5) contribution; (6) apportionment; and (7) declaratory
relief. On September 21, 2021, COPS Racing filed a First-Amened Cross-Complaint
adding alter ego allegations. 
 
On
January 5, 2023, Monster Energy filed a motion for summary adjudication of the
duty to defend against Promote Mexico. On March 21, 2023, the Court granted
this motion, finding that Promote Mexico owed Monster Energy a duty to defend
based on Section 6.01(a) of the Television Sponsorship Agreement between the
parties. 
 
On May
18, 2023, Defendant/Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Promote Mexico moved for summary adjudication on the duty to defend against
Monster Energy. On September 28, 2023, the Court denied the motion for
summary adjudication. 
 
            On July 18, 2023,
Defendant/Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant Promote Mexico and Roger Norman
(Moving Party or Promote Mexico) moved for summary adjudication of the first
through sixth causes of action on COPS Racing Team and Morgan Langley’s First
Amended Cross-Complaint, and the first and second causes of action in Promote
Mexico’s First Amended Cross-Complaint. COPS Racing, LLC (COPS Racing), Morgan
Langley, and Langley Productions, Inc. (Langley Productions) (collectively,
COPS Defendants) opposed the motion for summary judgment/summary adjudication. On October 30, 2023, Promote Mexico’s motion for summary
judgment was denied; the motion for summary adjudication was granted as to Morgan Langley on Issues 1-
4, 8, and 9, and otherwise denied.   
 
             SCORE International, S. de R,L. de C.V.
(Score-Mexico) now moves for an order finding that Mexican law, not California
law, applies to Plaintiff's claims.
 
            The motion to apply Mexican law is
granted in part as to Plaintiff’s claims against Defendant Score-Mexico only. 
 
Evidentiary Issues
 
          Score-Mexico’s unopposed request for judicial
notice of Exhibits 16, 18, 26, and 28-40 is granted. (Evid. Code, § 452, subd.
(c), (d), (f), (g), (h).)  
 
Legal Standard
 
         California
courts decide choice of law questions by means of the “governmental interests”
analysis. 


            “
‘[T]he governmental interest approach generally involves three steps. First,
the court determines whether the relevant law of each
of the potentially affected jurisdictions with regard to the particular issue
in question is the same or different. Second, if
there is a difference, the court examines each jurisdiction's interest in the
application of its own law under the circumstances of the particular case to
determine whether a true conflict exists. Third, if
the court finds that there is a true conflict, it carefully evaluates and
compares the nature and strength of the interest of each jurisdiction in the
application of its own law “to determine which state's interest would be more
impaired if its policy were subordinated to the policy of the other state”
[citation] and then ultimately applies “the law of the state whose interest
would be more impaired if its law were not applied.” ’ ” (McCann v.
Foster Wheeler LLC (2010) 48 Cal.4th 68, 87-88; accord, Chen v. Los
Angeles Truck Centers, LLC (2019) 7 Cal.5th 862, 867.)
 
            This
choice of law analysis embodies the presumption that California law applies
unless the proponent of foreign law can show otherwise.
 
            “The party arguing
that foreign law governs has the burden to identify the applicable foreign law,
show that it materially differs from California law, and show that the foreign
law furthers an interest of the foreign state.” (Frontier Oil Corp. v. RLI
Ins. Co. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1436, 1465; accord, Washington Mutual,
supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 919 [the movant “ ‘ “must demonstrate that the
latter rule of decision will further the interest of the foreign state and
therefore that it is an appropriate one for the forum to apply to the case
before it” ’ ”].) 
 
Analysis 
            
            Defendant
Score-Mexico argues that the Court should issue an “order finding Mexican law
applies to the claims Plaintiff asserted, which are all claims of negligence,
against all defendants.” (Reply 5:19-20.)
 
Preliminary Procedural Issues: 
 
            In
response, Plaintiff argues that as a preliminary matter Score-Mexico’s request
is “drastically overbroad” in that it seeks to determine the choice of law for
Plaintiff’s claim against all parties –including non-moving parties, such
Monster Energy, a California company, and Promote Mexico, LLC, a Nevada
company.
 
            Plaintiff’s
criticism is well-taken. Where the presumption is in favor of applying
California law, Score-Mexico provides no argument as to its standing to seek a
different choice of law as to non-moving parties and cites no authority for
doing so. The opposition further argues Score-Mexico’s analysis “has no
application to defendants that aren’t Mexican residents” which none of the
remaining Defendants are. (Opp. 8:16-17.) The reply suggests that “all
defendants have significant connections to tourism and commercial activity in
Mexico related to these races.” (Reply, 5:8-9.) However, Score-Mexico offers no
analysis as to how this factors into the governmental interest analysis as to
non-moving Defendants and an opposing Plaintiff. Thus, on this motion, the
Court will only consider the choice of law as to Plaintiff’s claims against
Defendant Score-Mexico.  
 
            Second,
the Court will address the procedural posture of this motion. As Plaintiff
notes “there is no such thing in the California Code of Civil Procedure as a
“Motion for the Application of Foreign Law,” and instead such issues are
generally raised by way of a motion to dismiss for forum non conveniens or a
motion for summary adjudication.” (Opp. 1:23-26; see e.g. Chen v. Los
Angeles Truck Centers, LLC (2019) 7 Cal.5th 862.) There is no legal
authority requiring an issue like the choice on law to be decided on any
specific type of motion. Moreover, where there are factual issues that must be
resolved in order to resolve the choice of law issue, this type of motion is
insufficient to resolve those necessary factual issues. 
 
            The analysis below will address
whether there is a factual issue that must be resolved before the choice of law
analysis can be decided.  
 
Substantive Choice of Law Analysis:
            
1.     Whether the relevant law of each of the
potentially affected jurisdictions with regard to the particular issue in
question is the same or different:
The Court first examines
the substantive law of each jurisdiction to determine whether the laws differ
as applied to the relevant claims.[1]
Defendant
Score-Mexico argues that there are substantive differences in the appliable
laws at issue here. Specifically, there is a difference between State of Baja
California, Mexico and the State of California as the law pertains to liability
and damages for non-contractual liabilities in the vent of vehicular accident resulting
in injury. 
            Under
California law, courts apply a comparative fault system that reduces plaintiff’s
recovery in proportion to their share of fault. (Diaz v. Carcamo (2011)
51 Cal.4th 1148, 1156 [“Under comparative fault principles, a plaintiff's
negligence no longer bars recovery, but reduces “the damages awarded ... in
proportion to the amount of negligence attributable to the [plaintiff].”].) California's
system of ‘comparative fault’ seeks to distribute tort damages proportionately
among all who caused the harm – among multiple tortfeasor defendants and
plaintiffs alike. 
In
contrast, under Mexican law (which is based on a civil code system) Article
1788 and Article 1791 of the Civil Code for the State of Baja California (CCBC)
provide that a plaintiff’s own fault or inexcusable negligence operates as an
absolute bar to recovery. (Walther Decl., ¶¶ 20-22, Exs. 30-31.)
Further, the law of intervening
liability in Mexico is different. Under Mexican law, “Mexican law requires
proof that a defendant's conduct was the immediate and direct cause of a
plaintiff’s injury and resulting damages.” (Walther Decl., ¶¶ 25, 27.) In
contrast, California law recognizes concurrent causes of an injury. (See Yanez
v. Plummer (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 180, 187 [“[A] defendant cannot avoid
responsibility just because some other person, condition, or event was also a
substantial factor in causing the plaintiff's harm; but conduct is not a
substantial factor in causing harm if the same harm would have occurred without
that conduct.”].)
            Defendant Score-Mexico
also argues that the amount of recoverable damages differs between the two jurisdictions.

Under California law,
Civil Code section 3333 permits recovery of “the amount which will compensate
for all the detriment proximately caused thereby....” (Civ. Code, § 3333.) Again,
in contrast, Mexican law calculates recoverable damages based upon the minimum
wage of the geographic area at issue multiplied by a maximum number of days.
(Walther Decl., ¶¶ 29-48; see Hernandez v. Burger (1980) 102 Cal.App.3d
795, 799 [“There is no question but that the laws of California and Mexico
governing the damages recoverable in a case such as this [automobile accident]
are different.”].)
            In
opposition, Plaintiff disputes Defendant Score-Mexico’s description and assessment
of Mexican law as it applies to liability and damages at issue here. First,
Plaintiff notes that the CCBC suggests that “The concurrent negligence of the
injured party does not exempt them from liability but entails a reduction in
compensation.” However, this question turns on whether the Plaintiff’s conduct
constitutes “inexcusable fault” or not.  
 
            In
any case, the first step in the governmental interest test is to determine
whether the relevant laws of the affected jurisdictions are “the same or
different.” (Chen, supra, at 867-68.) While a plaintiff’s own conduct
may not operate as an absolute bar to all liability in all cases under Mexican
law, it does in some cases – which is contrary to California law. Moreover,
Plaintiff offers no authority for the proposition that Plaintiff’s “fault or
inexcusable negligence” must be established prior to making a conflicts of law
determination. 
 
            Plaintiff
concedes there is differences in damage awards but that this difference is not
significant. Notably, Plaintiff explains that the Mexican law does allows for “Moral
Damages” which are damages that a party receives for the “impairment that a
person suffers in his feelings, affections, beliefs, decorum, honor,
reputation, private life, configuration and physical aspects, or in the
consideration that others have of himself.” (Walther Decl., ¶ 46.) 
 
            The
Reply acknowledges the existence of moral damages under Mexican law, but notes
that “in no case” will they “exceed the equivalent to that provided for in this
Code in the event of injury that produces the total permanent disability of the
victim.” (Walther Decl., ¶¶ 42-48, Ex. 34.) Defendant Score-Mexico also notes
that moral damages must still be proportional to the plaintiff's monetary
damages to ensure no excessive recovery by the plaintiff. (Walther Decl., ¶
48.)
 
             Based
on Defendant Score-Mexico’s thorough legal analysis based on expert testimony,
the Court finds the liability and damages laws of Mexico and California are
different as it pertains to the claims in this case. Thus, the first prong of
the governmental interest test is satisfied.
 
2.     Next, where there is a difference, the
court examines each jurisdiction's interest in the
application of its own law under the circumstances of the particular case
to determine whether a true conflict exists:
 
Plaintiff
challenges the relative interests of Mexico and California in having their law
applied to the facts here. 
 
On this
prong, courts must consider the governmental policies underlying the laws in assessing
whether either or both states have an interest in applying their law to the
case. Only if each of the states involved has a ‘legitimate but conflicting
interest in applying its own law’ will we be confronted with a ‘true’ conflicts
case.” (Offshore Rental Co. v. Continental Oil Co. (1978) 22 Cal.3d 157,
163.)
 
As
preliminary matter, Defendant Score-Mexico argues that Mexico has a broad and
significant interest in applying its law here, but also concedes that
California has an interest in applying California law here, albeit a limited
one. (Mot., 10:11-18.)
Defendant Score-Mexico
acknowledges that California has an interest in ensuring residents injured in
traffic accidents in other states are adequately compensated for their injuries
such that they do not become dependent on the resources of California for
necessary medical, disability, and unemployment benefits. (Castro v. Budget
Rent-A-Car System, Inc. (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 1162, 1182.) 
In contrast, according
to Defendant, Mexico has a significant interest in protecting negligent
resident tortfeasors acting within its borders from the financial hardships
caused by the assessment of excessive legal liability or exaggerated claims. (Offshore
Rental Co. v. Continental Oil Co., supra, 22 Cal.3d at 163.) Further,
Score-Mexico argues that “Mexico has a significant interest in applying its
substantive laws that preclude a finding of liability, as well as limiting
damages, and that equally applies to Mexican and foreign defendants,” which
encourages investment and tourism. (Mot., 10:22-11:4.) The Court can assume
that Mexico may wish to encourage investment and tourism, but does not assume
that it wishes to countenance or insulate reckless conduct.
In opposition, Plaintiff
argues that Mexico has no interest in applying its laws to non-Mexican
defendants. In making this argument, Plaintiff contends Defendant Score-Mexico
is not truly a Mexican defendant based on Plaintiff’s alter ego and joint
venture arguments. (Opp., 8:8-9:6 [citing Hurtado v. Superior Court
(1974) 11 Cal.3d 574].)
Even assuming
Score-Mexico is not a Mexican Defendant, Plaintiff’s reliance on Hurtado v.
Superior Court (1974) 11 Cal.3d 574 is misplaced. In Hurtado, a
Mexican national was killed in an automobile accident in California by a
California defendant. The Mexican national’s heirs, who were also Mexican
nationals, sought to apply Californian law whereas the California defendant
sought to apply Mexican law. (Id. at 578.) In applying the
government interest analysis, the court first found that Mexico imposed a
monetary limitation on recoverable damages in wrongful death cases that
conflicted with California's law, which had no such limitation. (Id. at
578-579.) The court found that “[t]he interest of a state in a tort rule
limiting damages for wrongful death is to protect defendants from excessive
financial burdens or exaggerated claims.” (Id. at 580–581.) Thus, since
there was no such limitation in California law, the court determined that
California law should apply since it allowed greater recovery of damages. (Id.
at 586–587.) The court found that “Mexico has no interest in applying its
limitation of damages in wrongful death actions to nonresident defendants or in
denying full recovery to its resident plaintiffs.” (Id. at 586–587.)
Hurtado shows that California courts are
reluctant to impose foreign laws that restrict a plaintiff's ability to recover
damages unless the defendants are residents of, or connected to, the foreign
state where such limitations apply. (Hurtado v. Superior Court (1974) 11 Cal.3d 574, 583 (Mexico’s
interest in “protecting resident defendants … is inapplicable to this case,
because defendants are not Mexican residents”].)
In contrast here, the
underlying conduct occurred during a professional race held in Mexico. The
facts in Hernandez v. Burger (1980) 102 Cal.App.3d 795 are more analogous
to the facts here. In Hernandez v. Burger (1980) 102 Cal.App.3d 795, a
Mexican plaintiff was injured in Mexico by a California defendant
driver. The court explained “It is true that the place of the wrong is no
longer treated as a controlling factor where application of the law of another
jurisdiction having a connection with the accident will serve a legitimate
interest or policy of the other jurisdiction. However, the situs of the injury
remains a relevant consideration.” (Hernandez v. Burger (1980) 102
Cal.App.3d 795, 801–802.) Ultimately, in ruling that Mexican law should apply,
the court held that Mexico had an interest in applying its limitation of
damages rule to non-residents and that California had no interest in applying
its more liberal recovery rules to an accident that occurred outside of
California. (Hernandez, 102 Cal.App.3d at 804.) 
Thus, irrespective of
whether Score-Mexico is a Mexican Defendant, Mexico has an interest based on
the location of the incident. Accordingly, both California and Mexico have an
interest in applying their respective laws. Based on the second prong, a true
conflict exists between each jurisdiction's interest in the application of its
own law under the circumstances. 
3.     Where there is a true conflict, the
Court must evaluate and compare the nature and strength of the interest of each
jurisdiction in the application of its own law “to determine which state's
interest would be more impaired if its policy were subordinated to the policy
of the other state” and then ultimately apply “the law of the state whose
interest would be more impaired if its law were not applied:
“Once a true conflict is
identified, the “comparative impairment” approach is used to determine which
state's interest would be more impaired if its policy were subordinated to the
policy of the other state.” (Denham v. Farmers Ins. Co. (1989) 213
Cal.App.3d 1061, 1066.) 
Defendant Score-Mexico
argues Mexico’s interest in applying its own law is greater than California’s
interest. Score-Mexico argues that the place of injury is highly
significant, relying on Offshore Rental Co. v. Continental Oil Co.
(1978) 22 Cal.3d 157 and McCann v. Foster Wheeler LLC (2010) 48 Cal.4th
68. In both cases, the courts applied the law of the foreign jurisdiction where
the accident occurred, recognizing the foreign jurisdictions interest in
providing individuals and commercial entities with certainty of the applicable
laws where business is conducted. (McCann v. Foster Wheeler LLC¸ supra, 48
Cal.4th at 98-99.) 
In
response, Plaintiff relies on her argument that Score-Mexico is not truly a
Mexican defendant based on the alter ego and joint venture arguments, and that
accordingly the significance of the place of injury to the impairment analysis
is reduced.
 
As noted
above, while both jurisdictions have an interest in the litigation, the
impairment analysis turns on whether Score-Mexico is truly a Mexican
corporation or merely an alter ego of the Nevada defendants. 
 
The
location of the incident is ordinarily an important factor weighing in favor of
applying Mexican law. (McCann v. Foster Wheeler LLC (2010) 48 Cal.4th
68, 97–98 [“California choice-of-law cases nonetheless continue to recognize
that a jurisdiction ordinarily has “the predominant interest” in regulating
conduct that occurs within its borders.”].) Further, as discussed in Denham
v. Farmers Ins. Co. (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1061, an important factor for consideration
under the comparative impairment approach is where the injury occurred. (Denham
v. Farmers Ins. Co. (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1061, 1067.) In Denham, where
the injury occurred in Nevada and the only tie to the California forum was the
plaintiff’s residency, the court explained:
 
“In these circumstances, applying
California law would “abrogate the interest of a jurisdiction such as [Nevada]
in the application of its law to a situation arising out of an insurance policy
written in [Nevada], insuring [a Nevada] resident for an accident that occurred
in that state, and where the complained of conduct of the insurer occurred,
although its effect was upon a third party residing in California. We are
satisfied that [Nevada] has the greater interest in regulating the conduct of
the insurer, as well as in protecting the insurer, and through it the insured,
against third party bad faith claims.” [Citation.]” (Denham v. Farmers Ins.
Co. (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1061, 1067.)
Here, Mexico has an interest in controlling
the liability and damages for conduct – especially business-related conduct –
that occurs within its borders. Such an interest furthers reliance on and
manages the expectations of liability and damage exposure pertaining to the
conduct that occurs within its own borders. By creating this reliability, it
encourages investment and development in reliance on these liability and damage
limits. (Abogados v. AT&T, Inc. (9th Cir. 2000) 223 F.3d 932, 936
[“[B]oth to protect potential defendants—including foreign defendants who might
otherwise avoid doing business in Mexico—from liability for conduct that Mexico
does not consider wrongful, and to limit plaintiffs from recovering even if
such conduct damages them.”].)
However, in contrast to Denham,
the legitimacy of Score-Mexico’s claim to be a Mexican Corporation is disputed.
Plaintiff argues that Score-Mexico (the allegedly
Mexican entity), Promote Mexico (a Nevada entity), and Roger Norman (a Nevada
Resident) are all joint venturers and/or are essentially alter egos of each
other. Plaintiff argues that resolving this alter ego/joint venture issue
is necessary to determining the relative issues on the choice of law analysis. She
maintains that while Score-Mexico claims to be a Mexico entity, it is in fact
an alter ego of Nevada Defendants – which in turn affects the relative interests
of each jurisdiction in applying its laws. 
Additionally, there are
also four California defendants involved in this case in addition to Plaintiff;
there is no evidence or argument that these California ties are not legitimate.
This fact strengths California’s interest in this litigation. 
            In
addressing this alter ego argument, Score-Mexico is correct that Plaintiff
cites no case authority to support the effect an alter ego determination has on
the choice of law analysis. However, this legal theory seems relevant in
assessing the governmental interests on a choice of law analysis for
Plaintiff’s claims against Score-Mexico. (CF Ameritec Corp. v. Ameritech
Corp. (C.D. Cal., Apr. 29, 1986, No. CV-86-0951 CBM) 1986 WL 10702, at *3
[“Under the theory of general jurisdiction, a nonresident's agency or alter ego
relationship with resident corporation would give rise to the court's general
jurisdiction over the nonresident defendant.”].) 
Moreover, case law indicates
that courts consider – at least to some extent – the quality of a
party’s relationship to the competing jurisdictions to determine relative
interest. For example, in McCann v. Foster Wheeler LLC (2010) 48 Cal.4th
68, the court considered the fact that the plaintiff did not become a
resident of California until sometime following the accident precipitating the
conduct of defendant which is the subject of this lawsuit. (Id. at 98;
see also Zimmerman v. Allstate Ins. Co. (1986) 179 Cal.App.3d 840, 847; Reich
v. Purcell (1967) 67 Cal.2d 551.) This authority further supports finding
that the analysis of the alter ego/joint venture question is critical because
if Score-Mexico is found to be an alter ego, its status as a Mexican defendant
is significantly undermined in a similar way as to party who forum shops for a
litigation forum.   
            Finally,
contrary to the reply, Plaintiff does not suggest that all factual
disputes must be resolved before a determination of applicable law can be
decided; however, factual matters critical to determining the choice of law
ruling logically must be decided first. Here, the true nature of the Defendant
Score-Mexico is key to this analysis and the alter ego argument has
implications as to whether Defendant Score-Mexico is truly a Mexican defendant.

            If
Score-Mexico is found to be the alter ego of Nevada residents, and thus no
party is a Mexican resident, Mexico’s interest in the litigation is
considerably diminished. Thus, resolving these competing intertest turns on
Score-Mexico’s identity as Mexican defendant. That is, Mexico’s interest in
applying its law only outweighs California’s interest where there is legitimate
Mexican defendant. Adjudication of this issue must be determined first before
the remaining choice of law claims can be decided.
The Court cannot resolve
the factual questions underlying the alter ego/joint venture issue on this
procedurally ambiguous motion. (See Misik v. D'Arco (2011) 197
Cal.App.4th 1065, 1072 [noting that existence of alter ego is “ ‘ordinarily a
question of fact’ “]; Alexander v. Abbey of the Chimes (1980) 104
Cal.App.3d 39, 47 [because determination of alter ego status “is primarily one
for the trial court and is not a question of law, the conclusion of the trier
of fact will not be disturbed if it is supported by substantial evidence”]; Leek
v. Cooper (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 399, 418 [“Whether a party is liable under
an alter ego theory is a question of fact.”].) 
It is doubtful that the alter ego issue can be determined in a motion
for summary adjudication either, because it would not dispose of a cause of
action, affirmative defense, or issue of duty. 

Conclusion
 
            The motion to apply Mexican law to
Plaintiff’s claims is denied without prejudice. 
 


