 Case Number:  21STCV36894    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



ASHLEY
  WEEMS,
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
ROSENDO
  ROBLES, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
) 
) 


     CASE NO.: 21STCV36894
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL AND ALL DISCOVERY DATES
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
January
  19, 2024



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On October 6, 2021, plaintiff Ashley Weems (“Plaintiff”)
filed this negligence action against defendants Rosenda Robles and Clean Air
Testing Inc. (“Defendants”). 
On December 19, 2023, Plaintiff filed this motion
seeking a 120-day trial continuance and to set all discovery and cutoff dates based
upon the new trial date.  Trial is
currently scheduled for February 14, 2024. Defendants oppose the motion.
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARDS
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332,
subdivision (b) outlines that “a party seeking a continuance of the date set
for trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the parties,
must make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte
application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with supporting
declarations.  The party must make the
motion or application as soon as reasonably practical once the necessity for
the continuance is discovered.”
Under California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332,
subd. (c), the Court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of
good cause requiring the continuance.  Circumstances
that may indicate good cause include “a party’s excused inability to obtain
essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent
efforts.”  The Court should consider all
facts and circumstances relevant to the determination, such as proximity of the
trial date, prior continuances, prejudice suffered, whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance, and whether the interests of justice are
served.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332, subd. (d).)
III.       
ANALYSIS
Plaintiff argues good cause exists to grant this
motion for the following reasons. On October 20, 2023, Plaintiff had a cervical
fusion surgery and has not yet recovered from the surgery and is not expected
to have recovered by the time of the current trial date on February 14, 2024. Plaintiff’s
treating doctor, Dr. Pablo Pazmino, has stated to Plaintiff’s counsel that in
order to properly diagnose Plaintiff’s prognosis and potential need for an
additional surgery, she must recover for a few months and stabilize from the
cervical fusion. Thus, Plaintiff argues that good cause exists to continue the
trial date and the expert designation and discovery dates due to the need to present
an accurate picture of her prognosis at trial. Plaintiff further states that
she seeks a continuance of the expert disclosure and discovery cut-off dates
based on the new trial date, but does not seek to reopen fact discovery.
Defendants oppose arguing that trial is only 17
days away, the trial has been continued twice, and that the doctor has had more
than enough time to evaluate Plaintiff. 
The Court finds that there is good cause for a
short continuance based on the evaluation of Plaintiff post-surgery. However,
discovery should be limited to this evaluation only. 
I.           
CONCLUSION
Plaintiff’s motion is GRANTED. Trial is
continued from February 14, 2024 to FATD 3/20/24 8:30 a.m. in Department 27. The final status
conference is continued from January 30, 2024 to _____________ at 10:00 a.m. in Department 27. All
pretrial deadlines including discovery and motion cut-off dates are to be based
on the new trial date. 
 
Moving party to give notice.
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
        Dated this 19th day
of January
2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 