 Case Number:  22STCV29393    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



ROBERTO CORONA, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
COMPTON
  UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22STCV29393
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT; MOTION TO STRIKE 


 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
January
  19, 2024



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants Compton Unified School District and
Joseph Davidson (“Defendants”)   
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Roberto Corona (“Plaintiff”)   
 
 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
This
is an action arising from an alleged assault and battery. On September 9, 2023,
Plaintiff Roberto Corona (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants
Compton Unified School District, “Mr. Johnson and Does 1 through 10 alleging
causes of action for: (1) Battery; (2) Assault; (3) Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress; (4) Respondeat Superior; and (5) Employer’s Negligence.  Plaintiff thereafter amended the complaint to
correct Mr. Jonson’s name, changing it to “Joseph Davidson.”
On
November 16, 2023, Defendant Davidson filed a demurrer to the second cause of
action in the Complaint, and Defendants filed a motion to strike portions of
the Complaint. Defendant Davidson filed a corrected Demurrer on November 22,
2023.  On December 6, 2023, Plaintiff
filed an opposition to the demurrer and motion to strike. On December 14, 2023,
Defendants filed a reply to the demurrer and motion to strike. 
II.         
DEMURRER
“A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a
complaint as a matter of law.”  (Durell
v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.) “[T]he court gives
the complaint a reasonable interpretation, and treats the demurrer as admitting
all material facts properly pleaded.”  (Ibid.)
“[A] demurrer accepts as true all well pleaded facts and those facts of which
the court can take judicial notice but not deductions, contentions, or
conclusions of law or fact.” (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185
Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) Although courts construe pleadings liberally,
sufficient facts must be alleged to support the allegations plead to survive a
demurrer. (Rakestraw v. California Physicians' Serv. (2000) 81
Cal.App.4th 39, 43.)  
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to
amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is
on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully.
(Ibid.) “If there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can
state a good cause of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave
to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240,
245).  
Meet and Confer 
          “Before filing a demurrer . . . the demurring party shall
meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading
that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement
can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) “A determination by the court that the
meet and confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to overrule or
sustain a demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(4).) 
          The
meet and confer requirement has been met. Defendants’
 counsel met and conferred with Plaintiff’s
counsel via email and telephone. (Garcia Decl., ¶ 2.)  

 
 
Issue No.1: Second Cause of Action—Assault  
          Defendants
contend that the second cause of action fails to state a valid cause of action for
assault because it does not include any allegation(s) that set forth that Defendant
engaged in any threatening action against Plaintiff. Plaintiff contends that
the second cause of action sufficiently alleges facts that Plaintiff was
apprehensive based on Defendant Davidson’s conduct. 
          “The
essential elements of a cause of action for assault are: (1) defendant acted
with intent to cause harmful or offensive contact, or threatened to touch
plaintiff in a harmful or offensive manner; (2) plaintiff reasonably believed
she was about to be touched in a harmful or offensive manner or it reasonably
appeared to plaintiff that defendant was about to carry out the threat; (3)
plaintiff did not consent to defendant’s conduct; (4) plaintiff was harmed; and
(5) defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.”
(So v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652, 668-69.) A demurrer to a cause
of action will be sustained where it “contains, by necessary implication, all
of the allegations of each of the preceding [causes of action] and . . . adds
nothing to the complaint by way of fact or theory of recovery.” (Rodrigues
v. Campbell Industries (1978) 87 Cal.App.3d 494, 501.) 
          The Court finds
that the second cause of action for assault is sufficiently alleged. The
complaint alleges facts that would reasonably put Plaintiff in fear of Defendant
Davidson. 
          The Court
therefore OVERRULES the demurrer to the second cause of action with 20 days
leave to amend.    
          
III.    MOTION TO
STRIKE
          “Any party,
within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of
motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd.
(b)(1).) A court may “[s]trike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).)  A court may “[s]trike out all or any part of
any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule, or an order of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) 
Meet and Confer  
          “Before
filing a motion to strike . . . the moving party shall meet and confer in
person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
the motion to strike for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be
reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the motion to strike.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).) “A determination by the court that the
meet and confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to grant or deny
the motion to strike.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a)(4).) 
          The meet and
confer requirement has been met. Defendants
 counsel met and
conferred with Plaintiff’s counsel via email and telephone. (Garcia Decl., ¶
2.)  
Issue No.1: Striking Punitive Damages 
          “In order to
survive a motion to strike an allegation of punitive damages, the ultimate
facts showing an entitlement to such relief must be pled by a plaintiff.”  (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  California Civil
Code, Section 3294 authorizes punitive damages upon a showing of malice,
fraud, or oppression.  Malice is defined
as either “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the
plaintiff,” or “despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”  (Civil Code § 3294(c)(1).)  “Despicable conduct is conduct which is so
vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be
looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.”  (Mock v. Michigan Millers Mutual Ins. Co.
(1992) 4 Cal. App. 4th 306, 331.)  Fraud
under California Civil Code, Section 3294(c)(3) “means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”  California Civil Code, Section 3294(c)(2)
defines oppression as “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.”  Specific facts must be pled in support of
punitive damages.  (Hillard v. A.H.
Robins Co. (1983) 148 Cal.App.3d 374, 391-392.)  Facts must be pled to show that a defendant
“act[ed] with the intent to vex, injure or annoy, or with a conscious disregard
of the plaintiff’s rights.”  (Silberg
v. California Life Ins. Co. (1974) 11 Cal.3d 452, 462.)  Conduct that is merely negligent will not
support a claim for punitive damages.  (Tomaselli
v. Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1288.) 
          An employer
will not be liable for punitive damages based upon the acts of an employee of
the employer, unless: (1) the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness
of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others; or (2) the employer ratified the wrongful conduct
for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code § 3294(b).) As to a corporate employer, the
advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act
of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or
managing agent of a corporation.  (Id.)

          Defendants
seek to strike punitive damages allegations from the second cause of action, as
well as from the prayer for relief in the complaint. The Court finds that
Plaintiff has not alleged sufficient facts showing malice, fraud, or oppression
to warrant the imposition of punitive damages. 
          Therefore,
the Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion to strike with 20 days leave to amend.  
IV.     CONCLUSION
The Court OVERRULES the demurrer of Defendant
Davidson to the second cause of action.
The Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion to
strike with 20 days leave to amend. 
Defendant Davidson is ordered to give
notice of this ruling. 
 
 
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
      Dated this 19th day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 