 Case Number:  21STCV10834    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



CHRISTINA
  T. PEREZ, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
PI
  KAPPA ALPHA, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 21STCV10834
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR ORDER FOR PUBLICATION FOR SERVICE VIA SECRETARY OF STATE
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
January
  19, 2024



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On
March 19, 2021, Plaintiff Christina T. Perez (“Plaintiff”) filed this
negligence against Defendants.
          On December 5,
2023, Plaintiff filed the instant motion for order for publication for service
via Secretary of State on Defendant B&B Management Services, Inc.
(“Defendant”). 
 
II.      LEGAL STANDARD 
          A Corporations
Code section 1702(a) governs requests to serve a corporation via the Secretary
of State. The statute provides:
 
If . . . the agent designated cannot
with reasonable diligence be found at the address designated for personally
delivering the process, . . . and it is shown by affidavit to the satisfaction
of the court that process against a domestic corporation cannot be served with
reasonable diligence upon the designated agent by hand in the manner provided
in Section 415.10, subdivision (a) of Section 415.20 or subdivision (a) of
Section 415.30 of the Code of Civil Procedure or upon the corporation in the
manner provided in subdivision (a), (b) or (c) of Section 416.10 or subdivision
(a) of Section 416.20 of the Code of Civil Procedure, the court may make an
order that the service be made upon the corporation by delivering by hand to
the Secretary of State, or to any person employed in the Secretary of State's
office in the capacity of assistant or deputy, one copy of the process for each
defendant to be served, together with a copy of the order authorizing such
service. Service in this manner is deemed complete on the 10th day after
delivery of the process to the Secretary of State.
 
(Corp. Code § 1702(a).)
 
III.    DISCUSSION 
          Plaintiff’s
motion is accompanied by the declaration of her counsel who states that her
office made the following efforts to learn of Defendant’s whereabouts: (1) a
business records search of the Secretary of State website on March 1, 2021, and
(2) Counsel found the corporate records of Defendant, such as articles of
incorporation and statements of information containing the information of the
designated agent for process service. Counsel also attaches two Declarations of
Diligence by a process server and Notice and Acknowledgement of Receipt to the
Defendant’s agent for process service at the address designated in the
Defendant's Statement of Information. 
However, Plaintiff has not demonstrated
any attempt to serve Defendant via any other individual employed by Defendant
with the titles enumerated in Code of Civil Procedure section 416.10(b): “A
summons may be served on a corporation by delivering a copy of the summons and
the complaint by any of the following methods: . . . To the president, chief
executive officer, or other head of the corporation, a vice president, a
secretary or assistant secretary, a treasurer or assistant treasurer, a
controller or chief financial officer, a general manager, or a person
authorized by the corporation to receive service of process.”
Further, Plaintiff’s counsel has not
set forth facts showing what efforts she has taken to attempt to locate another
address for Defendant and its agent and officer, especially an updated inquiry.
There are no indications Plaintiff’s counsel attempted any online searches, a
postal service inquiry, or engaged an investigation service to attempt to
locate another address. 
Plaintiff must demonstrate exhaustion
of all alternative methods of service enumerated in Corporations Code section
1702 before service upon the Secretary of State may be properly authorized. (Gibble,
supra, 67 Cal.App.4th at 312; Batte, supra, 165 Cal.App.2d at 535.)
The motion is DENIED without prejudice.
 
IV.     CONCLUSION
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion.
Moving party is ordered to give notice
of this ruling. 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
     Dated this 19th day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 