

 
BACKGROUND
 
             On February 22, 2024, Plaintiff Covina Hills
MHC (“Plaintiff” or “Petitioner”) filed the Petition to Declare Mobile Home
Abandoned against Michael Pergl; Kenneth Huie; and DOES 1-10 (collectively,
“Defendants”). 
 
            On
or about, January 18, 2024, Petitioner caused to be posted a Thirty (30) Day Notice
of Belief of Abandonment on the subject mobile home and sent via certified mail.
(Petition ¶¶ 5-6; Ex. 1.) More than thirty (30) days elapsed since this Notice
was posted and mailed, and none of the Respondents, nor any other person
claiming an interest in said mobile home has paid to Petitioner the amounts
owed or arranged to reclaim the subject mobile home. (Petition ¶ 5(a)-(c).)
 
            As
of May 1, 2024, there was due $9,673.00 for rent due on the lease premises for October
1, 2023 to May 1, 2024 and costs in the sum of $225.00. (Lopez Decl. ¶ 8.) Petitioner
requests the amounts under Civil Code §798.61(d). (Petition ¶ 6.) 
 
            As of August
12, 2024, Defendants have not filed an opposition. 
             
            
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Petitioner
petitions the court to enter a judgment of abandonment under California Civil
Code §798.61. This Petition is made under California Civil Code §798.61, on the
grounds that Michael Pergl and Keneth Huie are the registered owners of the
mobile home occupying space 354 at the mobile home park at 17350 E. Temple Ave,
La Puente, California 91744, and have abandoned that home. Plaintiff seeks a
judgment of $9,673.00, representing rent owing from the use of the premises
from October 1, 2023, through May 1, 2024, in the amount of $9,448.00 and costs
in the sum of $225.00. Plaintiff also seeks judgment allowing Petitioner to
conduct a public sale of the abandoned mobile home pursuant to California Civil
Code §798.61. 
 
 
                                                                OPPOSITION
 
            None. 
 
REPLY
 
            None. 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Petition for Judgment of Abandonment of
Mobile Home
A.                                       
Legal Standard 
 
            California
Civil Code §789.61 states “(a)(1)
As used in this section, “abandoned mobilehome” means a mobilehome about which
all of the following are true: (A) It is located in a mobilehome park on a site
for which no rent has been paid to the management for the preceding 60 days. (B)
It is unoccupied. (C) A reasonable person would believe it to be abandoned. (D)
It is not permanently affixed to the land . . . (b) After determining a
mobilehome in a mobilehome park to be an abandoned mobilehome, the management
shall post a notice of belief of abandonment on the mobilehome for not less
than 30 days, and shall deposit copies of the notice in the United States mail,
postage prepaid, addressed to the homeowner at the last known address and to
any known registered owner, if different from the homeowner, and to any known
holder of a security interest in the abandoned mobilehome. This notice shall be
mailed by registered or certified mail with a return receipt requested.
 
            (c)(1) Thirty or more days following
posting pursuant to subdivision (b), the management may file a petition in the
superior court in the county in which the mobilehome park is located, for a
judicial declaration of abandonment of the mobilehome. A proceeding under this
subdivision is a limited civil case. Copies of the petition shall be served
upon the homeowner, any known registered owner, and any known person having a
lien or security interest of record in the mobilehome by posting a copy on the
mobilehome and mailing copies to those persons at their last known addresses by
registered or certified mail with a return receipt requested in the United
States mail, postage prepaid.
 
            (2) To dispose of an
abandoned mobilehome pursuant to subdivision (f), the management shall also do
all of the following:
 
            (A) Declare in the
petition that the management will dispose of the abandoned mobilehome, and
therefore will not seek a tax clearance certificate as set forth
in Section 5832 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.
 
            (B) Declare in the
petition whether the management intends to sell the contents of the abandoned
mobilehome before its disposal.
 
            (C) Notify the county
tax collector in the county in which the mobilehome park is located of the
declaration that management will dispose of the abandoned mobilehome by sending
a copy of the petition by first class mail.
 
            (D) Declare in the
petition that management intends to file a notice of disposal with the
Department of Housing and Community Development and complete the disposal
process consistent with the requirements of subdivision (f).
 
            (d)(1) Hearing on the
petition shall be given precedence over other matters on the court's calendar.
 
            (2) If, at the hearing,
the petitioner shows by a preponderance of the evidence that the criteria for
an abandoned mobilehome has been satisfied and no party establishes an interest
therein at the hearing and tenders all past due rent and other charges, the
court shall enter a judgment of abandonment, determine the amount of charges to
which the petitioner is entitled, and award attorney's fees and costs to the
petitioner. For purposes of this subdivision, an interest in the mobilehome
shall be established by evidence of a right to possession of the mobilehome or
a security or ownership interest in the mobilehome.
 
            (3) A default may be
entered by the court clerk upon request of the petitioner, and a default
judgment shall be thereupon entered, if no responsive pleading is filed within
15 days after service of the petition by mail.” (California Civil Code
§789.61)
 
1.                 
Merits
 
            There
are various deficiencies in the Petition. Here, Plaintiff has not shown by a preponderance of evidence that the
criteria for an abandoned mobile home has been satisfied. The
Court notes that the cost amount of $225.00 is unclear, Plaintiff did not
provide any evidence showing what this amount is for. Further, Sofia Lopez’s Supplemental
Declaration states, “The mobilehome is not in any way attached to any permanent
footings or foundation at space 333 []” however, the space in dispute is space
354, not space 333. (Supp. Lopez Decl. ¶ 7.) Moreover, Plaintiff failed to
provide any evidence showing that the Thirty Day Notice was also mailed by
certified mail. 
 
III.       Conclusion 
 
            Therefore,
the Court DENIES WITHOUT PREJUDICE Plaintiff’s unopposed Petition for Judicial
Declaration of Abandonment of Mobile Home. 
            
            Moving
Party to give notice. 