

 
SERVICE: 

 
[X]
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, rule 3.1300)                      OK
[X]
Correct Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)                                      OK 
[X]
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c, 1005(b))                       OK
 
OPPOSITION:          Filed on July 8 and 12, 2024.                         [   ] Late          [   ] None
REPLY:                     Filed on July 11, 2024.                                   [   ]
Late          [   ] None
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
July 19, 2019, Plaintiff Video Symphony, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Richard and Dolores Sandoval (“Defendants”) for breach of
promissory notes.
 
On
May 16, 2024, the Court entered judgment after trial in favor of Plaintiff and
against Defendants, in the amount of $8,246.91, consisting of damages,
prejudgment interest, and costs.
 
On
May 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion for Attorney’s Fees
(“Motion”).
 
On
June 17, 2024, self-represented Defendants informed the Court that they had not
been properly served with the Motion. 
Thus, the Court continued the hearing to July 23, 2024.
 
            On July 8, 2024, Defendant Richard
Sandoval filed an Opposition to the Motion. 
On July 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Reply.  On July 12, Defendants each filed an Amended
Opposition.
 
            On July 23, 2024, due to the Court’s
emergency closure, the hearing on the Motion was continued to August 13, 2024.
 
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.                  
Legal Standard
Civil Code section
1717 states in pertinent part: “[i]n any action on a contract, where the
contract specifically provides that attorney's fees and costs, which are
incurred to enforce¿that contract, shall be awarded either to one of the
parties or to the prevailing party, then the party who is determined to be the¿party¿prevailing¿on
the contract, whether he or she is the party specified in the contract
or not, shall be entitled to reasonable attorney’s fees in addition to¿other¿costs.” 
(Civ. Code, § 1717, subd. (a)).
 
A prevailing
party in a lawsuit includes “the party with a net monetary recovery, a defendant in
whose favor a dismissal is entered, a defendant where neither plaintiff nor
defendant obtains any relief, and a defendant as against those plaintiffs who
do not recover any relief against that defendant.”  (Code of Civ. Proc., §1032, subd. (a)(4).)
 
A prevailing party in entitled to recover costs, including attorney’s
fees, as a matter of right.  (See
Code Civ. Proc. §§ 1032, subd. (a)(4), 1032, subd. (b), 1033.5.)  Furthermore, attorney’s fees are allowable as
costs when authorized by contract, statute, or law.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1033.5, subd. (a)(10).)
 
“A notice of motion to claim attorney's
fees for services up to and including the rendition of judgment in the trial
court . . . must be served and filed within the time for filing a notice of
appeal under . . . rules 8.822 and 8.823 in a limited civil case.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1702(b)(1).)  In a limited civil case, a notice of appeal
must be filed on or before the earliest of 30 days after service of a document
entitled “Notice of Entry” of judgment or 90 days after the entry of judgment.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 8.822(a)(1).)
 
The calculation of
attorney’s fees in California begins with the “lodestar” method – multiplying
the number of hours reasonably expended by the reasonable hourly rate.  A computation of time spent on a case and the
reasonable value of that time is fundamental to a determination of an
appropriate attorneys’ fee award.  The
lodestar figure may then be adjusted, based on factors specific to the case, in
order to fix the fee at the fair market value for the legal services provided.  (Serrano
v. Priest (1977) 20 Cal.3d 25, 49.) 
Such an approach anchors the trial court’s analysis to an objective
determination of the value of the attorney’s services, ensuring that the amount
awarded is not arbitrary.  (Ibid. at p. 48, fn. 23.)  After the trial court has performed the
lodestar calculations, it shall consider whether the total award so calculated
under all of the circumstances of the case is more than a reasonable amount and,
if so, shall reduce the section 1717 award so that it is a reasonable
figure.  (PLCM Group v. Drexler (2000) 22 Cal.4th 1084, 1095-1096.)
 
As explained in Graciano v. Robinson Ford Sales, Inc.:
 
“[T]he lodestar is the basic fee for comparable legal services in the
community; it may be adjusted by the court based on factors including, as
relevant herein, (1) the novelty and difficulty of the questions involved, (2)
the skill displayed in presenting them, (3) the extent to which the nature of
the litigation precluded other employment by the attorneys, (4) the contingent
nature of the fee award. [Citation.]  The
purpose of such adjustment is to fix a fee at the fair market value for the
particular action. In effect, the court determines, retrospectively, whether
the litigation involved a contingent risk or required extraordinary legal skill
justifying augmentation of the unadorned lodestar in order to approximate the
fair market rate for such services. . . . This approach anchors the trial
court's analysis to an objective determination of the value of the attorney's
services, ensuring that the amount awarded is not arbitrary.” [Internal
citations and internal quotation marks omitted.]
 
((2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 140,
154.)  “It is well established that the
determination of what constitutes reasonable attorney fees is committed to the
discretion of the trial court, whose decision cannot be reversed in the absence
of an abuse of discretion. 
[Citations.]  The value of legal
services performed in a case is a matter in which the trial court has its own
expertise. . . . The trial court makes its determination after consideration of
a number of factors, including the nature of the litigation, its difficulty,
the amount involved, the skill required in its handling, the skill employed,
the attention given, the success or failure, and other circumstances in the
case.  [Citations.]”  (Melnyk
v. Robledo (1976) 64 Cal.App.3d 618, 623-624.)
 
No specific findings
reflecting the court’s calculations are required.  The record need only show that the attorney
fees were awarded according to the “lodestar” or “touchstone” approach.  The court’s focus in evaluating the facts
should be to provide a fee award reasonably designed to completely compensate
attorneys for the services provided.  The
starting point for this determination is the attorney’s time records.  (Horsford
v. Board of Trustees of Calif. State Univ. (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 359,
395-397 [verified time records entitled to credence absent clear indication
they are erroneous].)  However,
California case law permits fee awards in the absence of detailed time sheets.  (Sommers
v. Erb (1992) 2 Cal.App.4th 1644,
1651; Dunk v. Ford Motor Co. (1996)
48 Cal.App.4th 1794, 1810; Nightingale v.
Hyundai Motor America (1994) 31 Cal.App.4th 99, 103.)  An experienced trial judge is in a position
to assess the value of the professional services rendered in his or her
court.  (Ibid.; Serrano, 20 Cal.3d
25 at 49
II.               
Discussion
Plaintiff moves
for attorney’s fees after trial in the amount of $15,681.50 as the prevailing
party based on Civil Code, Section 1717, subdivision (a).  Judgment was entered in this matter on May
10, 2024, in favor of Plaintiff, and the instant Motion was filed timely on May
22, 2024.
 
Plaintiff argues
that the action is “on a contract” as
the sole claim is for breach of promissory notes.  The promissory notes upon which the action is
based specifically state: “DEFAULT: I will be in default if I don’t fully pay
any installment on time, at which time the interest rate may change to 18%
annum. Alternatively, and at any time thereafter, you may then demand the
unpaid balance, earned finance charge, plus any attorney fees, expenses
of collection, court fees and interest as allowed by law.”  (Complaint, Ex. C, emphasis added.) 
As to the reasonableness of the fees,
Plaintiff’s counsel provides a breakdown of the time spent on the matter
including 6 hours reviewing the file, preparing and filing of the Complaint and
coordinating process service; 4 hours negotiating, documenting, and monitoring
a settlement that Richard Sandoval ultimately reneged on; 24.5 hours preparing
for, appearing at, and sending notices related to five trial dates; and more than
3 hours to schedule, prepare, and file the instant Motion and this Declaration,
for which he has billed 2 hours.  (Flanagan
Decl., ¶ 8.)  Counsel also provides an
itemization of his billable time totaling 39.7 hours.  (Ibid. at ¶ 9, Ex. 1.) Counsel’s hourly
rate is $395.
            In his initial
Opposition, filed on July 8, 2024, Defendant Sandoval argues that he was not
properly served with the Motion.  As
noted earlier, the Court continued the hearing on June 17, 2024, to allow
additional time for the filing of an opposition based on Defendants’
representation that the Motion had not been served on them.  Defendant Richard also seems to contest
Plaintiff’s counsel’s billing of 6 hours to prepare the Complaint even though
the agreement at the center of this matter had a binding arbitration clause.
            In its Reply, Plaintiff
argues that Defendant has not presented a substantive opposition to the Motion
as he continues to argue that he was not properly served.  Plaintiff also requests additional attorney’s
fees incurred since the June 17, 2024, hearing, as permitted by the Court’s
order.  Plaintiff requests an additional
$1,106 in attorney’s fees for 1.4 hours spent on preparing and appearing at the
June 17 hearing, and 1.4 hours to review Defendant’s opposition, prepare a
reply, and review and reply to a “cease and desist” letter from Defendant.  (Reply, Flanagan Decl. ¶ 5.)  Thus, the total request for attorney’s fees amounts
to $16,787.50.  (Ibid. at ¶ 7.)
            On July 12, 2024, Defendants
Richard and Dolores Sandoval each filed an Amended Opposition with nearly
identical arguments. Defendants argue that at the time of filing the Complaint,
Video Symphony, LLC was managed by Mike Flanagan, as demonstrated in Exhibit A,
Articles of Organization of Video Symphony, LLC, and the Verification of the
Complaint.  They state that the instant
matter should not have been litigated as the Student Enrollment Agreement
attached to the Complaint contained a Mandatory Arbitration Clause and Flanagan
purposefully ignored the clause to increase his attorney’s fees, which are
excessive.  They also state that each
party should bear the cost of its own attorney’s fees and that the Court should
find that there was no prevailing party. 
Moreover, Defendants argue that an attorney who represents himself is
not eligible for a fee award and, as Michael Flanagan has conceded that he is
the president of Plaintiff Video Symphony, LLC, he should not be awarded
attorney’s fees.  His declaration, which
states that he is “not a majority owner of VSLLC,” is “not an employee of
VSLLC” and is paid for his “billable time on an attorney’s client basis” are in
contrast to his position as president of the company.  (See Flanagan Decl. ¶ 10.)  As Plaintiff is a “corporate shadow of
Michael Flanagan-his alter ego” he is not entitled to any attorney’s fees.  (Oppos. p. 7.)
The Court notes that in other parts of their oppositions, Defendants
contest the Court’s prior findings and ask the Court to void its prior
judgment.  These arguments are irrelevant
and improperly brought forth in an opposition to a Motion for Attorney’s Fees.
            Here, judgment was entered in favor
of Plaintiff on May 10, 2024. 
Accordingly, the Court finds that Plaintiff is the prevailing party in
the instant action.  
Defendants argue that Michael Flanagan has conceded that
he is the president of Plaintiff. Thus, he is not entitled to attorney’s
fees.  In Trope v. Katz, the California
Supreme Court found that an attorney who chooses to litigate as a
self-represented party in an action to enforce a contract may not recover
attorney’s fees pursuant to Civil Code, section 1717.  (Trope v. Katz (1995) 11 Cal.4th 274.)  However, the instant matter is
distinguishable from Trope in that Flanagan is not a named party in the
action and the Court has entered judgment in favor of Plaintiff Video Symphony,
LLC, a limited liability company.  Although
Defendants argue that Plaintiff
is a “corporate shadow of Michael Flanagan-his alter ego,” they do not present
any evidence to support this argument.  
 
Thus, the
Court finds that Plaintiff is the prevailing party as judgment was entered in
its favor and, pursuant to the provisions of the promissory notes, is entitled
to attorney’s fees.
Moreover, the Court finds
both the hourly rate and time spent on the matter are reasonable, including the
additional billing presented by Plaintiff in its Reply brief.
Based on the foregoing,
the motion is GRANTED in the amount of $16,787.50.
III.       Conclusion 
            
            Plaintiff Video Symphony
LLC’s Motion for Attorney’s Fees is GRANTED.
 
Attorney Fees in the amount of $16,787.50 are awarded to
Plaintiff VSLLC and against Defendants Richard Sandoval and Dolores Sandoval
 
Moving Party is ordered to give notice.