 Case Number:  24VECV00947    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




Nikal,
  LTD et al.,
Plaintiffs.
 
   v.
 
 
Areg
  Allen Sarkissian and Sarkissian Law Group, Inc.
Defendants.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
   24VECV00947           107




COURT’S[TENTATIVE]
  DECISION RE:     
 Demurrer with motion to strike.
 



 
Defendants Areg Allen Sarkissian and Sarkissian Law Group, Inc.
(“Defendants”) demur to the complaint brought by Plaintiffs Nikal LTD, AJ Rock,
LTD, Blue Sky Rainbow, LP, GNM, L.P., and Animal Kingdom, L.P. (“Plaintiffs”). 
 
This court sustains the demurrer with leave to amend.
 
I.               
BACKGROUND 
 
This is a legal malpractice case. On February 29, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a
complaint against Defendants Areg Allen Sarkissian, Sarkissian Law Group, Inc.,
and Does 1 through 100, alleging twenty-three causes of action for breach of a
written contract, legal malpractice, and breach of fiduciary duty. 
 
On May 1, 2024, Defendants filed the instant demurrer and motion to strike.
Plaintiffs filed on opposition on October 4, 2024. Defendants filed a reply on
October 8, 2024.
 
II.            
JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Defendants request that this court take judicial notice of the retainer
agreements and email communications.
 
When a party requests the court take judicial notice “of a legally
operative document – like a contract – the court may take notice not only
of the fact of the document and its recording or publication, but also facts
that clearly derive from its legal effect.” (Scott v. JPMorgan Chase
Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 743, 754.)
 
Accordingly, this court grants Defendants’ requests for judicial notice
Nos. 1-4 and 6-9, which include:
 
1.    
The retainer agreement between Nikal, LTD and
Sarkissian Law Group for Nikal, LTD v. Kyle Carper. (Ex. 1.)
2.    
The retainer agreement between Nikal, LTD and
Sarkissian Law Group for Nikal, LTD v. Ashley Goldson. (Ex. 5.)
3.    
The retainer agreement between Nikal, LTD and
Sarkissian Law Group for Nikal, LTD v. Samantha Kline. (Ex. 7.)
4.    
The retainer agreement between Nikal, LTD and
Sarkissian Law Group for Nikal, LTD v. Daniel Zepeda. (Ex. 10.)
5.    
The retainer agreement between Blue Sky Rainbow, L.P.
and Sarkissian Law Group for Blue Sky Rainbow, LP v. Sandy Ortiz. (Ex.
14.)
6.    
The retainer agreement between Animal Kingdom, LP. and
Sarkissian Law Group for Animal Kingdom, LP. v. Monica Marie Castro.
(Ex. 16.)
7.    
The retainer agreement between AJ Rock, LTD. and
Sarkissian Law Group for AJ Rock, LTD. v. Veronica Quintana. (Ex. 18.)
8.    
The retainer agreement between AJ Rock, LTD. and
Sarkissian Law Group for AJ Rock, LTD. v. Raquel Gonzalez. (Ex. 20.)
 
The court denies Defendants’ request for judicial notice No. 5 because
Defendants attached no Exhibit 13 to Defendants’ filings. Exhibit 13 may be the document located at
pages 93-97 of the Judicial Notice pdf.. But there is no “Exhibit 13” cover
page.
 
Defendants also requests the court take judicial notice of email
communications. Email communications do not fall under Evidence Code sections
451 or 452. This court, therefore, denies Defendants’ requests for judicial
notice Nos. 10-22.
 
III.          
PROCEDURAL MATTERS¿ 
¿ 

Page
     Limits 

 
Per California Rules of Court, rule 3.1113(d), “Except in a summary
judgment or summary adjudication motion, no opening or responding memorandum
may exceed 15 pages.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.113(d).) That limit “does
not include the caption page, the notice of motion and motion, exhibits,
declarations, attachments, the table of contents, the table of authorities, or
the proof of service.” (Id.) 
 
Defendants’ demurrer is sixty pages in length and therefore exceeds the
page limit imposed by California Rules of Court, rule 3.1113(d). Although this
court does not decline to consider the demurrer, this court reminds Defendants
of the existence and importance of abiding by the California Rules of Court.
 

The
     Meet & Confer Requirement¿ 

¿ 
California Code of Civil Procedure §¿430.41, subdivision (a) requires
parties to “meet and confer” in good faith before the filing of a demurrer to
attempt to informally resolve the objections raised in the demurrer.¿The
demurring party is required to file and serve with the demurrer a declaration
either confirming that parties were unable to resolve the issues raised by the
demurrer despite having met and conferred or that the opposing party failed to
meet and confer with the demurring party in good faith. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc.
§¿430.41(a)(3).)¿ 
 
Defendant filed a declaration by counsel indicating the parties met and
conferred but were unable to reach an agreement. (Singh ¶¶ 3-7.) 
 
This court finds the meet and confer requirement has been satisfied.
¿ 
IV.          
DEMURRER - LEGAL STANDARD 
¿¿ 
As a general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent
on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v.
Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the
pleading alone, and not the evidence or the facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc.
v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such,
the court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied
factual allegations. (Ibid.) The only issue a demurrer is concerned with
is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 745.)¿A complaint is sufficient if it
contains “[a]¿statement¿of the¿facts¿constituting the cause of action, in
ordinary and concise language.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿425.10(a)(1).) Under
this standard, a “complaint ordinarily is sufficient if it alleges ultimate
rather than evidentiary facts.” (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42
Cal.4th 531, 550.)¿
 
V.             
DEMURRER - DISCUSSION 
 

Joinder

 
“All persons may join in one action as plaintiffs if: (1) They assert any
right to relief jointly, severally, or in the alternative, in respect of or
arising out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or
occurrences and if any question of law or fact common to all these persons will
arise in the action; or (2) They have a claim, right, or interest adverse to
the defendant in the property or controversy which is the subject of the
action.” (Code Civ. Proc, § 378.)
 
“A common interest in the subject matter of the action has been found to
exist where four plaintiffs sued upon four separate causes of action on common
counts for money had and received in connection with purported sales of
securities in violation of the Corporate Securities Act. [Citations.] And a
right to relief arising out of the same transaction or series of transactions
exists where several plaintiffs sue for personal injuries suffered in the same
accident [citations]; where two persons are falsely imprisoned by the same acts
committed at the same time [citation]; where taxpayers join to challenge the
validity of assessments or recover taxes [citations]; where holders of separate
oil leases sue for an alleged trespass resulting from the drilling of one well
by defendant [citation]; and where plaintiffs whose causes of action are based
upon misrepresentation or conspiracy and fraud allege a single scheme,
depending on the same basic misrepresentations and leading to a series of
transactions exactly similar in kind and manner of operation [citations].” (Moe
v. Anderson (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 826, 832.)
 
The complaint alleges twenty-three causes of action for breach of written
contract, legal malpractice, and breach of fiduciary duty. 
 
Plaintiff Nikal, LTD. (“Nikal”) brings causes of actions for breach of
written contract, legal malpractice, and breach of fiduciary duty related to
the matters Nikal, Ltd. v. Kyle L. Carper, Nikal Ltd. v. Ashley Goldson, and
Nikal Ltd. v. Samantha Kline, et al. (Complaint Causes of Action 1-9.)
 
Plaintiff GNM, L.P. (“GNM”) brings causes of action for breach of written
contract related to the matters GNM, LP v. Daniel Zepeda and GNM, LP
v. Matthew Stevenson, et al. (Complaint Causes of Action 10-11.)
 
Plaintiff Blue Sky Rainbow, LP (“Blue Sky Rainbow”) brings causes of action
for breach of written contract, legal malpractice, and breach of fiduciary duty
related to the matter Blue Sky Rainbow, LP v. Sandy Ortiz. (Complaint
Causes of Action 12-14.)
 
Plaintiff Animal Kingdom, L.P. (“Animal Kingdom”) brings causes of action
for breach of written contract, legal malpractice, and breach of fiduciary duty
related to the matter Animal Kingdom, LP v. Monica Marie Castro.
(Complaint Causes of Action 15-17.)
 
Plaintiff AJ Rock, LTD (“AJ Rock”) brings causes of action for breach of
written contract, legal malpractice, and breach of fiduciary duty related to
the matters AJ Rock, LP v. Veronica Quintana and AJ Rock, LP v.
Raquel Gonzalez. (Complaint Causes of Action 18-23.)
 
Plaintiffs’ complaint does not assert any right to relief jointly or
severally. (Complaint pp. 44-47.) Further, there are five distinct plaintiffs
suing for breaches of written contract, legal malpractice, and breaches of
fiduciary duty related to separate underlying matters, which occurred at
separate times. Accordingly, Plaintiff has not alleged that the causes of
action arose out of the “same transaction [or] occurrence.” (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 378.) Finally, Plaintiffs do not allege that the causes of action
involve a “common scheme to defraud a group of plaintiffs, ‘depending upon the
same basic misrepresentations, and leading to a series of transactions exactly
similar in kind and manner of operation which have affected all of the
plaintiffs.” (Moe v. Anderson, supra, 207 Cal.App.4th at pp. 833-834.)
Thus, Plaintiffs have not alleged the facts underlying the various causes of
action are a related series of transactions or occurrences. (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 378.)
 
Defendants’ demurrer mentions severance. 
(Demurrer p. 5.) The proper remedy may be to sever the cases or to give
Plaintiffs leave to amend. In Moe v. Anderson, the court mentions sustaining
a demurrer without leave to amend. Additionally, California Code of Civil
Procedure section 430.10(d) states that a party can challenge misjoinder of
parties in a demurrer, but it does not state whether the court can sever the
cases or whether the court should sustain with leave to amend.
 
Accordingly, this court sustains Defendants’ demurrer with leave to amend
to address, if possible, whether the Plaintiffs here may be joined in one
action. 
 

Defendant Areg A.
     Sarkissian

 
Defendant argues Plaintiffs’ causes of action against Areg A. Sarkissian
(“Sarkissian”) fail because Sarkissian was not a party to the contracts.
(Demurrer p. 9.) In their opposition, Plaintiffs state that the contracts are
ambiguous, and the retainer agreements include Sarkissian’s name “with no
indication that he is signing in anything other than a personal capacity.”
(Reply pp. 4-5.) In their reply, Defendants argue that there is no ambiguity
because “Plaintiffs at all times were aware Defendant Sarkissian Law Group was
a corporation” and further argue the complaint does not allege that Plaintiffs
believed Sarkissian “was anything other than an agent throughout the
representation.” (Reply p. 2.)
 
Plaintiff attached to their complaint retainer agreements signed by
Sarkissian. Ex. 1, pdf p. 53; Ex. 2, pdf p. 60; Ex. 3, pdf p. 67; Ex. 4, pdf p.
74; Ex. 5, pdf p. 80; Ex. 7, pdf p. 93.) Plaintiff’s complaint also attaches
unsigned retainer agreements which list Sarkissian’s name at the bottom. (Ex.
6, pdf p. 87; Ex. 8, pdf p. 100; Ex. 9, pdf p. 106.) Finally, Plaintiffs allege
that “[D]efendants, which include Areg Sarkissian and Sarkissian Law Group,
Inc., entered into retainer agreements with Plaintiffs. (Complaint ¶¶ 16, 24,
35, 43, 54, 62, 73, 81, 89, 97, 108, 116, 127, 135, 146, 154.)
 
“A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence or the facts
alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs., supra, 153
Cal.App.4th at p. 1315.) To the extent there are disputes over Sarkissian’s
status or the presence or absence of ambiguities in the contract, this court
does not consider them when determining how to rule on a demurrer.
 
This court finds that Plaintiffs have sufficiently plead that Sarkissian
was a party to the contracts.
 

Causes of Action

 
Defendants argue Plaintiffs fail to allege sufficient facts to state causes
of action against Defendants. (Demurrer pp. 2-3.)
 


Breach
      of Written Contract


 
The elements of a breach of contract claim are: (1) existence of a
contract; (2) plaintiffs’ performance or excuse for nonperformance; (3)
defendants’ breach; and (4) resulting damage. (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. N. Y. Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th
1171, 1178.)
 
Plaintiffs’ first, fourth, seventh, tenth, eleventh, twelfth, fifteenth,
eighteenth, and twenty-first causes of action are for breach of written
contract.
 
1.    
First Cause of Action
 
Plaintiffs allege a contract existed between Nikal and Defendants. The
complaint alleges that Nikal and Defendants entered into a written contract
titled Hourly Rate Agreement, which is attached as Exhibit 1 to the complaint.
(Complaint ¶ 16; Ex. 1.) Plaintiffs also allege that Plaintiff Nikal performed
under the contract, stating Nikal “cooperated in all respects with defendants’
requests for information and documents and followed defendants’ advice and
instruction in all with respects, except for those items which have been
excused or justified by the acts or omissions of defendants.” (Complaint ¶
19.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendants
breached the contract by “fail[ing] to prepare the manager for testimony”;
“fail[ing] to review the tenant ledger in advance. . .”; and “send[ing] a
stand-in attorney on the day of trial who was completely unprepared and
unfamiliar with the file[.]” (Complaint ¶ 20.) Finally, Plaintiffs allege
damages, stating that because of Defendants’ breaches of contract, “plaintiff
has suffered damages in the minimum sum of $15,000.00.” (Complaint ¶ 21.)
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged facts supporting their
first cause of action.
 
2.    
Fourth Cause of Action
 
Plaintiffs allege a contract existed between Nikal and Defendants. The
complaint alleges that that Nikal and Defendants “entered into a written
retainer agreement for legal services entitled “Hourly Rate Agreement” and
attach a copy of the agreement to the complaint. (Complaint ¶ 35; Ex. 2.)
Plaintiffs also allege that Plaintiff Nikal performed under the contract,
stating Nikal “cooperated in all respects with defendants’ requests for
information and documents” and “performed all things required of it to be
performed under the terms of the agreement for legal services, except for those
things which have been excused or justified by the acts or omissions of
defendants.” (Complaint ¶¶ 37-38.) Plaintiffs allege Defendants breached the
contract by “fail[ing] to notice the three-day notice was defective, for
failure to state the number of bedrooms.” (Complaint ¶ 39.) Plaintiffs allege
resulting damage, stating “[a]s a result, the case had to be dismissed and
refiled”; “Defendants caused the loss of at least two months of rent by this
delay in the unlawful detainer process” and as a result, “plaintiff has
suffered damages in the minimum sum of $10,000.” (Complaint ¶¶ 39-40.)   
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged facts supporting their
fourth cause of action.
 
3.    
Seventh Cause of Action
 
Plaintiffs allege a contract existed between Nikal and Defendants. The
complaint alleges that Nikal and Defendants “entered into a written retainer
agreement for legal services entitled ‘Hourly Rate Agreement” and attach a copy
of the agreement to the complaint. (Complaint ¶ 54, Ex. 3.) Plaintiffs also
allege that Plaintiff Nikal performed under the contract, stating Nikal
“cooperated in all respects with defendants’ requests for information and
documents” and “performed all things required of it to be performed under the
terms of the agreement for legal services, except for those items which have
been excused or justified by the acts or omissions of defendants.” (Complaint
¶¶ 56-57.) Plaintiffs allege Defendants breached the contract by “engag[ing] in
extensive settlement negotiations instead of proceeding directly to trial” and
failing to be “ready to proceed to trial.” (Complaint ¶ 58.) Plaintiffs allege
resulting damages, stating “[a]s a direct and proximate result of defendants’ .
. . breaches of contract in representing plaintiff, plaintiff has suffered
damages in the minimum sum of $15,000.” (Complaint ¶ 59.)
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged facts supporting their
seventh cause of action.
 
4.    
Tenth Cause of Action
 
Plaintiffs allege a contract existed between GNM and Defendants. The
complaint alleges that GNM and Defendants “entered into a written retainer
agreement for legal services entitled ‘Hourly Rate Agreement.’” (Complaint ¶
73; Ex. 4.) Plaintiffs also allege that GNM performed under the contract,
stating GNM “cooperated in all respects with defendants’ requests for
information and documents” and “performed all things required of it to be
performed under the terms of the agreement for legal services, except for those
items which have been excused or justified by the acts or omissions of
defendants.” (Complaint ¶¶ 75-76.) Plaintiffs allege Defendants breached the
contract by “charg[ing] a total of $8,136.51, of which plaintiff actually paid
$6,841.58, a significant overcharge, since the tenant moved out immediately
after being served with the summons and complaint for unlawful detainer.”
(Complaint ¶ 77.) Finally, Plaintiffs allege damages, stating “[a]s a direct
and proximate result of defendants’ . . . breaches of contract in representing
plaintiff, plaintiff has suffered damages in the minimum sum of $6,841.58.”
(Complaint ¶ 78.)
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged facts supporting their
tenth cause of action.
 
5.    
Eleventh Cause of Action
 
Plaintiffs allege a contract existed between GNM and Defendants. The
complaint alleges that GNM and Defendants “entered into a written retainer
agreement for legal services entitled ‘Hourly Rate Agreement.’” (Complaint ¶
81; Ex. 5.) Plaintiffs also allege GNM performed under the contract, stating
GNM “cooperated in all respects with defendants’ requests for information and
documents” and “performed all things required of it to be performed under the
terms of the agreement for legal services, except for those items which have been
excused or justified by the acts or omissions of defendants.” (Complaint ¶¶
83-84.) Plaintiffs allege Defendants breached the contract by “charg[ing] a
total of $7,664.04, all of which was paid by plaintiff, but defendants failed
to refund the outstanding credit of $1,932.90.” (Complaint ¶ 85.) Plaintiffs
allege resulting damages, stating “[a]s a direct and proximate result of
defendants’ breach of contract in representing plaintiff, plaintiff has
suffered damages in the minimum sum of $1,932.90.” (Complaint ¶ 86.)
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged facts supporting their
eleventh cause of action.
 
6.    
Twelfth Cause of Action
 
Plaintiffs allege a contract existed between Blue Sky Rainbow and
Defendants. The complaint alleges that Blue Sky Rainbow and Defendants “entered
into a written retainer agreement for legal services entitled ‘Hourly Rate
Agreement.’” (Complaint ¶ 89; Ex. 6.) Plaintiffs also allege Blue Sky Rainbow
performed under the contract, stating Blue Sky Rainbow “cooperated in all
respects with defendants’ requests for information and documents” and
“performed all things required of it to be performed under the terms of the
agreement for legal services, except for those items which have been excused or
justified by the acts or omissions of defendants.” (Complaint ¶¶ 91-92.)
Plaintiffs allege Defendants breached the contract by “fail[ing] to provide
competent services” and “enter[ing] into a stipulation on behalf of plaintiff
on the same date as a default had been submitted for entry [and a]s a result,
the tenant was permitted to remain in the apartment unit and plaintiff was
unable to recover possession of the subject unit.” (Complaint ¶ 93.) Plaintiffs
allege resulting damages, stating that “[a]s a direct and proximate result of
defendants’ . . . breaches of contract in representing plaintiff, plaintiff has
suffered damages in the minimum sum of $9,836.42.” (Complaint ¶ 94.)
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged facts supporting their
twelfth cause of action.
 
7.    
Fifteenth Cause of Action
 
Plaintiffs allege a contract existed between Animal Kingdom and Defendants.
The complaint alleges that Animal Kingdom and Defendants “entered into a
written retainer agreement for legal services entitled ‘Hourly Rate
Agreement.’” (Complaint ¶ 108.) Plaintiffs allege Animal Kingdom performed
under the contract, stating Animal Kingdom, “cooperated in all respects with
defendants’ requests for information and documents” and “performed all things
required of it to be performed under the terms of the agreement for legal
services, except for those items which have been excused or justified by the
acts or omissions of defendants.” (Complaint ¶¶ 110-111.) Plaintiffs allege
Defendants breached the contract by “charg[ing] a total of $8,301.22 but
fail[ing] to provide competent services”, fail[ing] to notice that the
three-day notice was defective, as a result of which it had to be re-served”,
and sending an inexperienced, unprepared, and incompetent attorney to cover the
trial. (Complaint ¶ 112.) Plaintiffs allege resulting damages, stating that
“[a]s a direct and proximate result of defendants’ . . . breaches of contract
in representing plaintiff, plaintiff has suffered damages in the minimum sum of
$10,000.” (Complaint ¶ 113.)
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged facts supporting their
fifteenth cause of action.
 
8.    
Eighteenth Cause of Action
 
Plaintiffs allege a contract existed between AJ Rock and Defendants. The
complaint alleges that AJ Rock and Defendants “entered into a written retainer
agreement for legal services entitled ‘Hourly Rate Agreement.’” (Complaint ¶
127; Ex. 8.) Plaintiffs allege AJ Rock performed under the contract, stating AJ
Rock “cooperated in all respects with defendants’ requests for information and
documents and followed defendants’ advice and instruction” and “performed all
things required of it to be performed under the terms of the agreement for
legal services, except for those items which have been excused or justified by
the acts or omissions of defendants.” (Complaint ¶¶ 129-130.) Plaintiffs allege
Defendants breached the contract because “Defendants were paid $10,841.55, but
failed to provide competent services” and Defendants drafted a defective
unlawful detainer judgment stipulation and “[a]s a result, when the tenant
defaulted, a whole new unlawful detainer case had to be filed and litigated to
a conclusion.” (Complaint ¶ 131.) Plaintiffs allege resulting damages, stating
“[a]s a direct and proximate result of defendants’ . . . breaches of contract
in representing plaintiff, plaintiff has suffered damages in the minimum sum of
$25,000.00.” (Complaint ¶ 132.)
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged facts supporting their
eighteenth cause of action.
 
9.    
Twenty-First Cause of Action
 
Plaintiff alleges a contract existed between AJ Rock and Defendants. The
complaint alleges that AJ Rock and Defendants “entered into a written retainer
agreement for legal services entitled ‘Hourly Rate Agreement.’” (Complaint ¶
146.) Plaintiffs allege AJ Rock performed under the contract, stating AJ Rock
“cooperated in all respects with defendants’ requests for information and
documents and followed defendants’ advice and instruction in all respects” and
“performed all things required of it to be performed under the terms of the
agreement for legal services, except for those items which have been excused or
justified by the acts or omissions of defendants.” (Complaint ¶¶ 148-149.)
Plaintiffs allege Defendants breached the contract because “Defendants charged
a total of $8,468.34, but failed to provide competent services” and “[a]fter
running up a bill for $8,468.34, defendants informed plaintiff that the
three-day notice was defective, the case would have to be dismissed and the
whole process started all over again. They had failed to check or notice
whether the three-day notice was in proper form. As a consequence, plaintiff
was required to re-serve the three[-]day notice and commence a whole new
unlawful detainer proceeding in order to evict the tenants.” (Complaint ¶ 150.)
Plaintiffs allege resulting damages, stating “[a]s a direct and proximate
result of defendants’ . . . breaches of contract in representing plaintiff,
plaintiff has suffered damages in the minimum sum of $15,000.00” (Complaint ¶
151.)
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged facts supporting their
twenty-first cause of action.
 


Legal
      Malpractice


 
“To state a cause of action for legal malpractice, a plaintiff
must plead the duty of the attorney to use such skill, prudence, and
diligence as members of his or her profession commonly possess and exercise;
breach of that duty; a proximate causal connection between the breach and the
resulting injury; and actual loss or damage resulting from
the attorney's negligence.” (Kasem v. Dion-Kindem (2014) 230
Cal.App.4th 1395, 1399.)
Plaintiffs’ second, fifth, eighth, thirteenth, sixteenth, nineteenth, and
twenty-second causes of action are for legal malpractice.
                                                   
i.     Second
Cause of Action
Plaintiffs allege Defendants owed and breached “their duty of care, and
have fallen below the applicable standard of care required of attorneys
performing legal services of the type rendered by defendants” by “fail[ing] to
prepare the manager for testimony”; “fail[ing] to review the tenant ledger in
advance. . .”; and “send[ing] a stand-in attorney on the day of trial who was
completely unprepared and unfamiliar with the file[.]” (Complaint ¶ 25.)
Plaintiffs also allege Defendant caused an injury, stating that that because
Defendant sent an unprepared attorney, Nikal “lost its case and had to start
[the] eviction process all over again.” (Complaint ¶ 25.) Plaintiffs further
state that “[a]s a direct and proximate result of defendants’ . . . breaches of
the standard of care . . . in representing plaintiff, plaintiff has suffered
damages in the minimum sum of $15,000.” (Complaint ¶ 26.)  
Accordingly, Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged facts supporting their
second cause of action.
 
                                                 
ii.     Fifth Cause
of Action
Plaintiffs allege Defendants owed and breached “their duty of care, and
have fallen below the applicable standard of care required of attorneys
performing legal services of the type rendered by defendants” by “fail[ing] to
notice that the three-day notice was defective, for failure to state the number
of bedrooms.” (Complaint ¶ 44.) Plaintiff also allege Defendant caused an
injury, stating that “[a]s a result, the case had to be dismissed and refiled.”
(Complaint ¶ 44.) Further, Plaintiffs allege damages, stating that “[a]s a
direct and proximate result of defendants’ . . . breaches of the standard of
care . . . plaintiff has suffered damages in the minimum sum of $10,000.00.”
(Complaint ¶ 45.) 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged facts supporting their
fifth cause of action.
 
                                               
iii.     Eighth
Cause of Action 
 
Plaintiffs allege Defendants owed and breached “their duty of care, and
have fallen below the applicable standard of care required of attorneys
performing legal services of the type rendered by defendants” by “engag[ing] in
extensive settlement negotiations instead of proceeding directly to trial” and
“[w]hen negotiations failed, defendants were not ready to proceed to trial.”
(Complaint  ¶ 63.) Plaintiffs also allege
Defendants caused an injury and resulting damages, stating that “[a]s a direct
and proximate result of defendants’ . . . breaches of the standard of care . .
. plaintiff has suffered damages in the minimum sum of $15,000.00.” (Complaint
¶ 64.)
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged facts supporting their
eighth cause of action.
 
                                               
iv.     Thirteenth
Cause of Action 
 
Plaintiffs allege Defendants owed and breached “their duty of due care, and
have fallen below the applicable standard of care required of attorneys
performing legal services of the type rendered by defendants” by “[e]ntering
into a stipulation on behalf of plaintiff on the same date as a default had
been submitted for entry” and [a]s a result, the tenant was permitted to remain
in the apartment unit and plaintiff was unable to recover possession of the
subject unit.” (Complaint ¶ 98.) Plaintiffs also allege Defendants caused an
injury and resulting damages, stating that “[a]s a direct and proximate result
of defendants’ . . . breaches of the standard of care . . . in representing
plaintiff, plaintiff has suffered damages in the minimum sum of $9,836.42.” (Complaint
¶ 99.)
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged facts supporting their
thirteenth cause of action.
 
                                                 
v.     Sixteenth
Cause of Action
 
Plaintiffs allege Defendants owed and breached their “duty of due care, and
have fallen below the applicable standard of care required of attorneys
performing legal services rendered by defendants” by “fail[ing] to notice that
the three-day notice was defective, as a result of which it had to be
re-served” and sending an “inexperienced, unprepared, and incompetent” attorney
to cover the trial. (Complaint ¶ 117.) Plaintiffs also allege Defendants caused
an injury and resulting damages, stating that “[a]s a direct and proximate
result of defendants’ . . . breaches of the standard of care . . . in
representing plaintiff, plaintiff has suffered damages in the minimum sum of
$10,000.00.” (Complaint ¶ 119.)
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged facts supporting their
sixteenth cause of action.
 
                                               
vi.     Nineteenth
Cause of Action 
 
Plaintiffs allege Defendants owed and breached “their duty of due care, and
have fallen below the applicable standard of care required by attorneys
performing legal services of the type rendered by defendants” because “[w]hile
the Quintana Unlawful Detainer Action was pending, the parties agreed to settle
on terms that allowed the tenant to remain in possession, subject to a payment
plan; if the tenant defaulted, the landlord was to be able to proceed with
lockout immediately. Defendants drafted a stipulation for unlawful detainer
judgment which . . . was defective [and a]s a result, when the tenant
defaulted, a whole new unlawful detainer case had to be filed and litigated to
a conclusion.” (Complaint ¶ 136.) Plaintiffs also allege Defendants caused an
injury and resulting damages, stating that “[a]s a direct and proximate result
of defendants’ . . . breaches of the standard of care . . . plaintiff has
suffered damages in the minimum sum of $25,000.00.” (Complaint ¶ 137.)
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged facts supporting their
nineteenth cause of action.
 
                                              
vii.     Twenty-Second
Cause of Action
 
Plaintiffs allege Defendants owed and breached “their duty of due care, and
have fallen below the applicable standard of care required of attorneys
performing legal services of the type rendered by defendants” because “[a]fter
running up a bill for $8,468.34, defendants informed plaintiff that the
three-day notice was defective, the case would have to be dismissed and the
whole process started all over again. They had failed to check or notice
whether the three-day notice was in proper form.” (Complaint ¶ 155.) “As a
consequence, Plaintiff was required to re-serve the three-day notice and
commence a whole new unlawful detainer proceeding in order to evict the
tenants.” (Complaint ¶ 155.) Plaintiffs also allege Defendants caused an
injury, stating that “[a]s a direct and proximate result of defendants’ . . .
breaches of the standard of care . . . in representing plaintiff, plaintiff has
suffered damages in the minimum sum of $15,000.00.” (Complaint ¶ 156.) 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged facts supporting their
twenty-second cause of action.


Breach
      of Fiduciary Duty


 
The elements of a breach of fiduciary claim are: (1) existence of a
fiduciary duty; (2) breach of the duty; and (3) damage caused by the breach. (Charnay v. Cobert (2006) 145
Cal.App.4th 170, 182.) The relationship between an attorney and his or her
client is a fiduciary relationship. (Fair v. Bakhtiari (2011) 195
Cal.App.4th 1135, 1140.) 
 
Plaintiffs’ third, sixth, ninth, fourteenth, seventeenth, twentieth, and
twenty-third causes of action are for breach of fiduciary duty.
 
                                                   
i.     Third Cause
of Action
 
Plaintiffs allege that “[a]s plaintiff’s attorneys, defendants owed
plaintiff a fiduciary duty . . .” (Complaint ¶ 29.) Plaintiff next alleges that
Defendants breached their fiduciary duty by failing to “exercise the degree of
care, skill and competence commonly possessed by attorneys in the legal
community of Los Angeles” and “fail[ing] to prepare the manager for testimony”;
“fail[ing] to review the tenant ledger in advance. . .”; and “send[ing] a
stand-in attorney on the day of trial who was completely unprepared and
unfamiliar with the file[.]” (Complaint ¶ 30.) Finally, Plaintiffs allege
damages caused by the breach, stating that because Defendants sent an
unprepared attorney, “plaintiff lost its case and had to start [the] eviction
process all over again” and “plaintiff has suffered damages in the minimum sum
of $15,000.00.” (Complaint ¶¶ 30-31.)
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged facts supporting their
third cause of action.
 
                                                 
ii.     Sixth Cause
of Action
 
Plaintiffs allege that “[a]s plaintiff’s attorneys, defendants owed
plaintiff a fiduciary duty . . .” (Complaint ¶ 48.) Plaintiffs next allege
Defendants breached their fiduciary duty by failing to “exercise the degree of
care, skill and competence commonly possessed by attorneys in the legal
community of Los Angeles County” and by “fail[ing] to notice that the three-day
notice was defective, for failure to state the number of bedrooms.” (Complaint
¶ 49.) Finally, Plaintiffs allege damages caused by the breach, stating that
“[a]s a result, the case had to be dismissed and refiled” and “Defendants
caused the loss of at least two months of rent by this delay in the unlawful
detainer process” and “plaintiff has suffered damages in the minimum sum of
$10,000.00.” (Complaint ¶¶ 49-50.) 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged facts supporting their
sixth cause of action. 
 
                                               
iii.     Ninth Cause
of Action 
 
Plaintiffs allege that “[a]s plaintiff’s attorneys, defendants owed
plaintiff a fiduciary duty . . . .” (Complaint ¶ 67.) Plaintiffs next allege
Defendants breached their fiduciary duty by failing to “exercise the degree of
care, skill and competence commonly possessed by attorneys in the legal
community of Los Angeles County” and “[c]ontrary to client instructions,
defendants engaged in extensive settlement negotiations instead of proceeding
directly to trial.” (Complaint ¶ 68.) Plaintiffs also allege that “[w]hen
negotiations failed, defendants were not ready to proceed to trial.” (Complaint
¶ 68.) Finally, Plaintiffs allege damages caused by the breach, stating that
“[a]s a direct and proximate result of defendants’ . . . breaches of the
standard of care . . . in representing plaintiff, plaintiff has suffered
damages in the minimum sum of $15,000.00.” (Complaint ¶ 68.) 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged facts supporting their
ninth cause of action.
 
                                               
iv.     Fourteenth
Cause of Action
 
Plaintiffs allege that “[a]s plaintiff’s attorneys, defendants owed
plaintiff a fiduciary duty . . . .” (Complaint ¶ 102.) Plaintiffs next allege
that Defendants breached their fiduciary duty by failing to “exercise the
degree of care, skill and competence commonly possessed by attorneys in the
legal community of Los Angeles County” and “enter[ing] into a stipulation on
behalf of plaintiff on the same date as a default had been submitted for
entry.” (Complaint ¶ 103.) Plaintiffs allege that “[a]s a result, the tenant
was permitted to remain in the apartment unit and plaintiff was unable to
recover possession of the subject unit.” (Complaint ¶ 103.) Finally, Plaintiffs
allege damages caused by the breach, stating that “[a]s a direct and proximate
result of defendants’ . . . breaches of the standard of care . . .  in representing plaintiff, plaintiff has
suffered damages in the minimum sum of $9,836.42.” (Complaint ¶ 104.)
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged facts supporting their
fourteenth cause of action.
 
                                                 
v.     Seventeenth
Cause of Action
 
Plaintiffs allege that “[a]s plaintiff’s attorneys, defendants owed
plaintiff a fiduciary duty . . . .” (Complaint ¶ 121.) Plaintiffs next allege
Defendants breached their fiduciary duty by failing to “exercise the degree of
care, skill and competence commonly possessed by attorneys in the legal
community of Los Angeles County.” (Complaint ¶ 122.) Plaintiffs further allege
Defendants “failed to notice that the three-day notice was defective, as a
result of which it had to be re-served” and sent an ”inexperienced, unprepared,
and incompetent” attorney to cover the trial. (Complaint ¶ 122.) Finally, Plaintiffs
allege damages caused by the breach, stating that “[a]s a direct and proximate
result of defendants’ . . . breaches of the standard of care . . . in
representing plaintiff, plaintiff has suffered damages in the minimum sum of
$10,000.00.” (Complaint ¶ 123.)
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged facts supporting their
seventeenth cause of action.
 
                                               
vi.     Twentieth
Cause of Action
 
Plaintiffs allege that “[a]s plaintiff’s attorneys, defendants owed
plaintiff a fiduciary duty . . . .” (Complaint ¶ 140.) Plaintiffs next allege
Defendants breached their fiduciary duty by failing to “exercise the degree of
care, skill and competence commonly possessed by attorneys in the legal
community of Los Angeles County.” (Complaint ¶ 141.) Plaintiffs allege that
“[w]hile the Quintana Unlawful Detainer Action was pending, the parties agreed
to settle on terms that allowed the tenant to remain in possession, subject to
a payment plan; if the tenant defaulted, the landlord was to be able to proceed
with lockout immediately. Defendants drafted a stipulation for unlawful
detainer judgment, which, however, was defective, in that it did not make
reference to the landlord’s right to immediate recovery of possession of the
rental premises upon a default in the payment plan. As a result, when the
tenant defaulted, a whole new unlawful detainer case had to be filed and
litigated to a conclusion.” (Complaint ¶ 141.) Finally, Plaintiffs allege
damages caused by the breach, stating that “[a]s a direct and proximate result
of defendants’ . . . breaches of the standard of care . . . in representing
plaintiff, plaintiff has suffered damages in the minimum sum of $25,000.00.”
(Complaint ¶ 141.)
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged facts supporting their
twentieth cause of action.
 
                                              
vii.     Twenty-Third
Cause of Action
 
Plaintiffs allege that “[a]s plaintiffs attorneys, defendants owed
plaintiff a fiduciary duty . . . .” (Complaint ¶ 149.) Plaintiffs next allege
Defendants breached their fiduciary duty by failing to “exercise the degree of
care, skill, and competence commonly possessed by attorneys in the legal
community of Los Angeles County.” (Complaint ¶ 160.) Plaintiffs also allege
that “[a]fter running up a bill for $8,468.34, defendants informed plaintiff
that the three-day notice was defective, the case would have to be dismissed
and the whole process started all over again. They had failed to check or
notice whether the three-day notice was in proper form. As a consequence,
plaintiff was required to re-serve the three[-]day notice and commence a whole
new unlawful detainer proceeding in order to evict the tenants.” (Complaint ¶
160.) Finally, Plaintiffs allege damages caused by the breach, stating that
“[a]s a direct and proximate result of defendants . . . breaches of the
standard of care . . . in representing plaintiff, plaintiff has suffered
damages in the minimum sum of $15,000.00” (Complaint ¶ 160.) 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged facts supporting their
twenty-third cause of action.
 
VI.          
MOTION TO STRIKE
 
“The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the
challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take
judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.) 
 

Plaintiffs’ Punitive
     Damages Claims

 
Defendant argues Plaintiffs’ claims for punitive damages should be struck
because Plaintiff has not alleged Defendant is guilty of fraud, oppression, or
malice. (Motion to Strike p. 11.) 
 
“In order to state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a complaint
must set forth the elements as stated in the general punitive damage statute.”
(Turman v. Turning Point of Central California, Inc. (2010) 191
Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) “These statutory elements include allegations that the
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud or malice.” (Id.) Malice
is defined “as conduct ‘intended by the defendant to cause injury to plaintiff,
or despicable conduct that is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard for the rights or safety of others.” (Id.)
Oppression is defined as “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel
and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Id.)
Fraud is defined as “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment
of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the
defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or
otherwise causing injury.” (Id.)
 
Plaintiffs seek punitive damages for their third, sixth, ninth, fourteenth,
seventeenth, twentieth, and twenty-third causes of action – which are for
breach of fiduciary duty. (Complaint pp. 44-46.)  Plaintiffs argue punitive damages are
available in a cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty and Defendants’
conduct amounted to oppression and fraud because “plaintiffs were charged fees
and costs for services that were clearly subpar.” (Opposition p. 9.) Plaintiffs
also argue Defendants’ false representations about their skill and “defendants’
astonishing incompetence” support Plaintiffs’ claims for punitive damages.
(Opposition pp. 9-10.) 
 
This court finds that Plaintiffs’ allegations do not rise to the level of
fraud, oppression, or malice. 
Accordingly, this court sustains the motion to strike Plaintiffs’
punitive damages allegations, with leave to amend. (McDonald v. Superior
Court, supra, 180 Cal. App.3d at pp. 303-304 [“[A] motion to strike
paragraphs in a complaint should be granted with leave to amend where . . . the
defect, though one of substance, may possibly be cured by supplying omitted
allegations, and the plaintiff has not had a fair opportunity to do so”].)
 

Plaintiffs’ General and
     Special Damages Claims

 
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs’ claims for special damages should be
struck because “the evidence presented fails to establish a clear and direct
link between the defendant’s alleged actions and the alleged financial losses.”
(Motion to Strike p. 12.) Defendant also argues Plaintiff’s claims for general
damages should be struck because “the complaint does not specify the amounts
[and] what types of damages the amount[s] requested are for[.]”
 
This court finds that Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged damages
resulting from each of their causes of action, so this court denies Defendants’
request to strike Plaintiffs’ claims for special and general damages.
 

Other Portions of
     Plaintiff’s Complaint

 
Defendants seek to strike portions of Plaintiffs’ complaint because the
statements are “irrelevant, false, improper, and/or not drawn in conformity
with the laws, local rules, or order of court.” (Motion to Strike.)
 
It is not clear from the face of the complaint and matters this court has
taken judicial notice of that Plaintiffs’ statements are irrelevant, false,
improper, or not drawn in conformity with the laws, local rules, or order of
the court. Accordingly, this court denies Defendants’ motion to strike other
portions of Plaintiffs’ complaint.
 
VII.        
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there
is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) “If there is any reasonable possibility that the
plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer
without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70
Cal.2d 240, 245.) “If the plaintiff has not had an opportunity to amend the
complaint in response to the demurrer, leave to amend is liberally allowed as a
matter of fairness, unless the complaint shows on its face that it is incapable
of amendment.” (City of Stockton v. Superior Court (2007) 42 Cal.4th
730, 747.) Courts generally allow at least one time to amend a complaint, after
sustaining a demurrer, even without any request for leave to amend. (McDonald
v. Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal. App. 3d 297, 303-304.)¿ 
 
Plaintiffs have not yet filed an amended complaint and this court finds
that there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment.
 
VIII.      CONCLUSION 
¿ 
Accordingly, this court sustains the demurrer with leave to amend.
 
 
Dated:  October 11, 2024                                                                   _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon. Eric Harmon
                                                                                                            Judge of the Superior Court