 Case Number:  22STCV04631    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  29 Petition for Approval of Compromise of a Person With a Disability
(Kamal Mohammed, Age 37)
 
Tentative
 
 
The Court excuses the personal appearance of the claimant and the
guardian ad litem. Counsel may appear by telephone or video conference
call.  
This
case arises out of injuries sustained by a then 34-year-old developmentally
disabled plaintiff at an adult day care facility in West Covina. Plaintiff
Kamal Mohammed (“Plaintiff”) filed the complaint in this action on February 7,
2022.  Plaintiff filed a notice of
settlement of the entire case on January 16, 2024.  The petition for approval of the compromise was
filed on February 29, 2024.
The Court has reviewed the petition
and finds that the terms of the settlement and the proposed fees appear to be reasonable.
As set forth below, however, there are some issues that need to be addressed before
the Court can approve the petition.
 
Accordingly, the Court continues
the hearing on this petition so that petitioner may address the issues set forth
below.
 
Discussion
 
The proposed settlement is for the gross amount of $432,000.00,
with the net balance of $279,673.98 available for claimant after payment of
fees, expenses, and liens.  Petitioner
proposes that $250,000 be invested in a single-premium deferred annuity and the
balance, $29,673.98, be used to fund a special needs trust (SNT).
 
An SNT is generally used to receive the settlement funds in certain
situations so that plaintiff does not lose benefits eligibility for government benefits.  Historically, a person receiving Medi-Cal or
SSI benefits could have only up to $2,000 in non-exempt assets, and any
additional non-exempt assets over $2,000 would cause the loss of benefits
eligibility under the relevant federal and state law.  Funds held in a valid SNT, however, are
exempt assets that do not count toward the $2,000 asset limit for purposes of
calculating benefits eligibility.  On
January 1, 2024, the Medi-Cal asset qualification limit was eliminated and
there is no longer a means test for Medi-Cal. 
The asset qualification for other benefits, like SSI, did not change and
therefore may remain a reason for creation and funding of an SNT.
 
 
 
Notice to State Agencies
 
When seeking approval of an SNT, notice of the hearing and service
of the petition must be made upon three state agencies: the Department of
Mental Health, the Department of Developmental Services, and the Department of
Health Care Services.  (Probate Code
sections 3602(f), 3611(c).). A proof of service indicates that service and
notice is complete.  
 
Proposed Trust Instrument
 
The main requirements for court created or funded trusts are set
forth at California Rules of Court (CRC) rule 7.903(c) and LASC rule
4.116(b).  The proposed trust instrument
meets those requirements and is ready for approval for creation and funding.
 
Required Findings
 
When approving the establishment or funding of an SNT from
settlement proceeds, the court must make the following findings pursuant to
Probate Code section 3604(b).  There is a
sufficient basis in the record to make the requisite findings.  The Court finds:
 

The
     SNT beneficiary has a disability which substantially impairs the
     individual’s ability to provide for her own care or custody and
     constitutes a substantial handicap.

 

The
     SNT beneficiary is likely to have special needs that will not be met
     without the trust. 

 

The
     money to be paid to the trust does not exceed the amount that appears
     reasonably necessary to meet the SNT beneficiary’s special needs.

 
Trustee
and Bond
 
The proposed initial trustee is
Mia Ehsani, a private professional fiduciary (PPF) in El Dorado Hills,
California.  Normally, bond must be
required of a trustee unless the trustee is a corporate fiduciary.  (California Rules of Court, Rule 7.903(c)(5);
Probate Code section 2320.)  A PPF does
not meet that definition and so a bond is required.
 
Petitioner calculates $53,000 bond in the briefing and states that
amount in the proposed order.  That
calculation appears to be proper based upon the assets to be funded into the
trust, plus anticipated annual income from investments and any annuity, plus an
additional amount required for the costs of any recovery on the bond.
 
The Court requires a bond in the amount of $53,000.  This bond must be submitted by the trustee to
this department (which will subsequently be resubmitted to the Probate Division
in the trust supervision action). 
 
The Court notes that the proposed PPF trustee is based in El Dorado,
California which is in El Dorado County. 
Venue for the trust supervision case over time therefore will be in that
county per Probate Code section 17005 (the proper venue for trust actions is
the county where the principal place of administration of the trust is
located).  After the trust supervision
case is filed by trustee in LASC, she likely will need to request transfer of
the action to El Dorado County Superior Court. 
Nonetheless, this Court will still require the filing of the trust
supervision action initially in Los Angeles County Superior Court to ensure
that a trust supervision action is in place during the administration of the
SNT.  
 
Proposed Order
 
Petition has submitted a proposed order bearing a received date
stamp of February 29, 2024.  There are
some issues that must be addressed with regard to the proposed order.
 
Item 1b.  The date of the
hearing must be updated.
 
Item 8b(3).  This item is checked but not filled in.  It should state the amount to be paid to
satisfy the Medi-Cal liens. 
Item 11.  The Court requires a bond of $53,000.  The order incorrectly states that a bond is
not required.  This must be corrected.
Conclusion
 
The hearing on the petition is
CONTINUED to ___________, 2024, so that Petitioner may submit a new proposed
order that addressing the following issues:
 
(1)  Item
1b.  Update hearing information.  
 
(2)  Item
8b(3).  Fill in information regarding payment
to satisfy Medi-Cal liens.  
 
(3)  Item
11.  Correct to state information regarding
required bond.
 
As to the provisions appearing on
pages 33 and 34 of the pdf of the proposed order, upon Court approval the Judicial
Assistant will be directed to fill in the blanks in paragraph 7 (approximately 60
days from approval), paragraph 9 (same), and paragraph 10 (14 months).
 
Moving party to give notice.