 Case Number:  22STCV06786    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  29 Defendants’ Motion for Leave to Conduct Mental Examination
of Plaintiff 
 
Tentative
The motion is denied.
Background
On February 24, 2022, Plaintiff
Molly Jean Sliwoski (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendant
Extended Stay America, Inc.; ESA P Porfolio Operating Lessee, LLC (“ESAP”); and
Does 1 through 100, asserting causes of action for negligence and
premises liability.  Plaintiff alleges that on September 29, 2020,
while Plaintiff was visiting a guest at Defendant’s premises, she sat on a
bench, the bench collapsed, and she sustained injuries as a result.
On March 30, 2022, ESAP filed
its answer.
On July 21, 2022, Plaintiff
amended the complaint to name ESH Hospitality, Inc., as Doe 1.
On September 19, 2022,
Defendant ESA Management, LLC (“ESAM”), erroneously sued as Extended Stay
America, Inc. and ESH Hospitality, Inc., filed its answer.
On June 12, 2023, Plaintiff
filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”).  On June 16, 2023, ESAP and
ESAM (collectively, “Defendants”) filed an answer to the FAC.
On March 15, 2024, the Court denied,
without prejudice, and on procedural grounds, Defendants’ prior motion for
leave to conduct a mental examination of Plaintiff.
On April
3, 2024, Defendants filed this motion for leave to
conduct a mental examination of Plaintiff. 
Defendants do not seek sanctions. 
Plaintiff filed her opposition on April 18, along with a request for sanctions.  Defendants filed their reply on April 25.
Legal Standard
“Any party may obtain discovery . . . by means of a
physical or mental examination of (1) a party to the action, (2) an agent of
any party, or (3) a natural person in the custody or under the legal control of
a party, in any action in which the mental or physical condition (including the
blood group) of that party or other person is in controversy in the action.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.020, subd. (a).)
In a personal injury action, the defendant may
demand one physical examination of plaintiff as of right, without advance leave
of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.220.)  
If a defendant seeks a further physical examination
of plaintiff, or a mental examination, the defendant must first file a motion
and “obtain leave of court.” (Id., § 2032.310, subd. (a).) Such a motion
must “specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person
or persons who will perform the examination.” (Id., subd. (b).) The
court may grant such a motion “only for good cause shown.” (Id., §
2032.320, subd. (a).) A showing of good cause generally requires “that the
party produce specific facts justifying discovery and that the inquiry be
relevant to the subject matter of the action or reasonably calculated to lead
to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Vinson v. Super. Ct. (1987)
43 Cal.3d 833, 840.)   
The moving party¿must support the motion with a meet
and confer declaration.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (b).) A
meet and confer declaration must state facts “showing a reasonable and good
faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the
motion.”¿ (Id., § 2016.040.)¿¿¿¿ 
“An order granting a physical or mental examination
shall specify the person or persons who may perform the examination, as well as
the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests and procedures, conditions, scope,
and nature of the examination.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd.
(d).) “The court is to describe¿in detail¿who will conduct the
examination, where and when it will be conducted, the conditions, scope and
nature of the examination, and the diagnostic tests and procedures to be
employed.  The way to describe these ‘diagnostic tests and procedures’—fully¿and¿in
detail—is to list them by name.” (Carpenter v. Super. Ct.¿(2006)
141 Cal.App.4th 249, 260.)¿¿ 
The examination will be limited to whatever
condition is “in controversy” in the action.¿ (Id., § 2032.020, subd.
(a).) A mental examination is appropriate only if the plaintiff alleges
continuing emotional distress. (Doyle v. Super. Ct. ¿(1996) 50
Cal.App.4th¿1878, 1886-1887.) “While a plaintiff may place his mental
state in controversy by a general allegation of severe emotional distress, the
opposing party may not require him to undergo psychiatric testing solely on the
basis of speculation that something of interest may surface.”  (Vinson,¿supra,
43 Cal.3d at 840.) By alleging a causal link between the emotional
distress and the defendant's conduct, however, a plaintiff “implicitly claims
it was not caused by a preexisting mental condition, thereby raising the
question of alternative sources for the distress.” (Ibid.)  
A court
shall not (except under “exceptional circumstances”) order a mental examination
if the plaintiff stipulates (1) “that no claim is being made for mental and
emotional distress over and above that usually associated with the physical
injuries claimed” and (2) “that no expert testimony regarding this usual mental
and emotional distress will be presented at trial in support of the claim for
damages.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subds. (b) & (c).)
Discussion
Defendants contend that Plaintiff seeks to
recover for mental health injuries arising from the incident, including
depression, anxiety, anger, frustration, hopelessness, emotional instability,
and a heightened risk of suicide.  (Ball Decl., ¶¶ 2-5.)
In May 2023, Defendants noticed a mental
examination of Plaintiff with Dr. Dale Sherman, a
neuropsychologist.  (Id., ¶ 6.)  This was improper, as a
prior court order is required, but counsel met and conferred and reached a
stipulated agreement for the examination to proceed without a court
order.  (Ibid; Farahi Decl., ¶ 5 & Exh. C.)  Pursuant
to the stipulation, the parties agreed that the examination would be for a
duration of eight hours; that it was to take place over two days (July 12 and
August 2, 2023); that Dr. Sherman would conduct a clinical interview and administer
“some of” 30 enumerated and identified tests; and that various other conditions
would apply to the examination, testing, and test data.  (Farahi
Decl., Exh. C.)  Defendants were required to transmit the stipulation
to Dr. Sherman and direct the examiner to comply with its terms.  (Farahi
Decl., Exh. C, ¶ 10.)
Plaintiff appeared for the first session of the
examination with Dr. Sherman, but the examination was not completed.  The reason is subject to some
dispute.  Defendants generally blame Plaintiff, but notably they
present no evidence to support their account.  (See Ball Decl., ¶
7.)  Plaintiff presents written testimony
from an eyewitness, Vanessa Cabral, RN, a nurse who was assigned to be the
nurse observer during the examination.  (Farahi Decl., Exh. F.
[“Cabral Decl.”], ¶ 2.)  Ms. Cabral testifies that shortly after
Plaintiff appeared for the testing, Dr. Sherman told her that he had not
received a copy of the stipulation.  (Cabral Decl., ¶¶
3-4.)  Dr. Sherman proceeded to begin the examination and conduct
testing, but after less than one hour Dr. Sherman stated that he did not agree
with the terms of the stipulation and he terminated the
examination.  (Id., ¶¶ 6-7.)
Despite Defendants’ arguments to the contrary,
the only facts in the record indicate that Plaintiff cooperated fully with Dr.
Sherman, that Plaintiff performed her obligations under the stipulation, and
Defendants did not.
Counsel met and conferred further but could not
reach any further agreement on the mental examination of
Plaintiff.  (Ball Decl., ¶ 8; Farahi Decl., ¶ 10 & Exh. H.)
As a preliminary matter, Plaintiff contends that
service of the motion was not proper and that there was not an adequate meet
and confer.  The Court has considered the
evidence in the record and the arguments presented by both sides.  The Court finds that service was through proper
means and timely, and that Defendants satisfied the statutory meet-and-confer
requirement.
The Court also finds, after considering the evidence
in the record and the arguments of both sides, that Defendants have shown good
cause for their requested mental examination of Plaintiff.  Plaintiff has placed her mental health at
issue.  (See Ball Decl., ¶¶ 2-5.)  The parties previously agreed to a mental examination,
but it barely had begun when the examiner terminated the examination, and
Defendants never received any data or reports from the examiner.  (Cabral Decl., ¶¶ 6-7; Ball Decl., ¶ 7.)
The Court further finds that Defendants have
cured some of the defects in their prior motion, which was denied without
prejudice on procedural grounds.  For
example, Defendants in their moving papers now identify the examiner and
propose a specific date and location for the examination.
As before, however, there are significant
disputes between the parties with regard to the examination.  One of these relates to whether Plaintiff will
have the right to record the examination.
Code of
Civil Procedure section 2032.530, subdivision (a), requires that when a mental
examination is conducted, the examinee must “have the right to record a mental
examination by audio technology.”  Defendants,
however, state that they will not comply with this statutory requirement.  Rather, Defendants state that the examination
will include two main components, an interview and testing, and only the
interview will be recorded.  (Mem., at p.
11:11-12.)  In addition, Defendants state
that only the examiner, and not Plaintiff, will record the interview.  (Id., at p. 11:18-19.)  In the alternative, Defendants propose, “the
entire examination [will] be recorded by a third party stenographer who will
make a transcript available to both Parties.” 
(Id., at p. 11:20-21; see also Reply at p. 3:12-13.)
Defendants’
proposed conditions are contrary to law. 
The Legislature has spoken clearly and expressly on this issue.  The examinee has the right to record, by audio
technology, the entire examination. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.530, subd. (a).)  The Court has no power to disregard the clear
command of the statute.  Accordingly, the
motion for leave to conduct an examination on the conditions and parameters
outlined in the motion is denied.
The Court denies Plaintiff’s request for
sanctions.  It is unclear to the Court
what authority, if any, authorizes an award of sanctions in this context.  And even if there were such authority, the
Court finds that Defendants have acted with substantial justification and that,
under the circumstances, an award of sanctions would be unjust.
Conclusion
The Court
DENIES Defendants’ motion for leave to conduct a mental examination of
Plaintiff.
Moving
Party is ORDERED to give notice.
 