 Case Number:  22STCV01731    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  29 Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Further Responses from Defendant
Guerra to Requests for Admission (Set One)
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Further Responses from Defendant Guerra to Form
Interrogatories (Set Two)
 
Tentative
The Court will hear from counsel, including on (but not
necessarily limited to) these issues:
First, did the Amended Responses to Requests for Admission
(Set One) served by Defendant Guerra on April 18, 2024, include any objections?
Second, did the Amended Responses to Form Interrogatories (Set
Two) served by Defendant Guerra on April 18, 2024, include any objections?
Background
On January 14, 2022, Plaintiffs Rafael Marron Perez, Nancy
Marlen Lopez, and Elisa Marron Perez (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed the
complaint in this action against Defendants Eric Scott Herrera (“Herrera”),
Cynthia Guerra (“Guerra”), and Does 1 through 30, asserting causes of action
for motor vehicle negligence and general negligence arising out of an accident
on January 27, 2020, at or near the intersection of Rinaldi and Porter Ranch
Drive in Porter Ranch.  Herrera and
Guerra filed their answer on March 8, 2022.
As is relevant to the matters set for hearing on May 2, 2024,
Plaintiffs served Guerra with discovery on May 9, 2023, including Requests for
Admission (Set One), and Form Interrogatories (Set Two).  (Aziz Decls., ¶ 2 & Exhs. 1-2.)  Guerra did not serve a timely response.  (Id., ¶¶ 3-4.)  Months later, on January 10, 2024, Guerra
served responses, including objections.  (Id.,
¶ 4 & Exhs. 2-4.)  Plaintiffs contend
that the responses are not code compliant; they sent meet and confer
correspondence, but the parties were unable to resolve their dispute.  (Id., ¶¶ 5-9 & Exhs. 3-7.)  The Court conducted an Informal Discovery
Conference on April 10, 2024, but the dispute was not resolved.
On March 11, 2024, Plaintiffs filed these two motions seeking
further responses to the form interrogatories and requests for admission.  Plaintiffs also seek sanctions.  Guerra filed her oppositions on April 18, and
Plaintiffs filed their replies on April 25.
On the same day that Guerra filed her oppositions, she served
amended responses to the form interrogatories and requests for admission.  (Yegoyan Decls., ¶ 10 & Exh. A.)  The responses themselves have not been submitted
as an exhibit to counsel’s declaration.
Legal Standard
“On receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding
party may move for an order compelling a further response if the propounding
party deems that any of the following apply: (1) An answer to a particular
interrogatory is evasive or incomplete. (2) An exercise of the option to
produce documents under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required
specification of those documents is inadequate. (3) An objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given
“within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id.,
subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1) & (b)(2); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“The court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (d).)
“On receipt of a response to requests for admissions, the
party requesting admissions may move for an order compelling a further response
if that party deems that either or both of the following apply: (1) An answer
to a particular request is evasive or incomplete. (2) An objection to a
particular request is without merit or too general.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd.
(a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given
“within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or any specific later date to which the requesting party and
the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id., subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1) & (b)(2); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“The court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further response, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (d).)
In Chapter 7 of the
Civil Discovery Act, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (a)
provides, in pertinent part, that the court may impose a monetary sanction ordering
that any person “engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any
attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” A “misuse of
the discovery process” includes (among other things) failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery; making, without substantial
justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an evasive
response to a discovery request; disobeying a court order to provide discovery;
and making or opposing, unsuccessfully, a motion to compel without substantial
justification. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subds. (d)-(h).)
Discussion
The Court has reviewed the evidence in the record and the
arguments presented by both sides.
The Court finds that Plaintiffs satisfied the statutory
meet-and-confer requirement.
The Court finds that Plaintiffs’ motions are timely filed.
The Court finds that Defendant Guerra did not serve timely
responses to the Requests for Admission (Set One).  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.250, subd.
(a).)  Defendant Guerra therefore waived “any
objection to the requests.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (a).)  Defendant
Guerra has not filed a motion for relief from that waiver.  (See ibid.)  Nor has Defendant Guerra shown that the
failure to serve a timely response “was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or
excusable neglect.”  (Id., subd. (a)(2).)
The Court finds that Defendant Guerra did not serve timely
responses to the Form Interrogatories (Set Two).  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260, subd.
(a).)  Defendant Guerra therefore waived “any
objection to the interrogatories.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) 
Defendant Guerra has not filed a motion for relief from that
waiver.  (See ibid.)  Nor has Defendant Guerra shown that the
failure to serve a timely response “was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or
excusable neglect.”  (Id., subd. (a)(2).)
The Court will hear from counsel with regard to the amended
responses and whether the Court should compel further responses.
Conclusion
The Court will hear from counsel.