 Case Number:  21STCV23287    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Substitute Successor in Interest for Plaintiff Jarrett Townsend.
 
Tentative
The motion is continued.
Background
This action arises out of a motor vehicle
accident on June 27, 2019, at or near Rinaldi Street in Porter Ranch.  On June 23, 2021, Plaintiff Jarrett Townsend
(“Plaintiff”) filed the complaint in this action against Defendants Einna Marie
Altarejos Macavinta, Maribel Altarejos (collectively, “Defendants”), and Does 1
through 50, asserting causes of action for motor vehicle negligence and general
negligence.  Defendants filed their answer on March 17, 2023.
 
The Court has received information that Plaintiff
died on September 21, 2023.
 
On March 12, 2024, a motion was filed to substitute a
successor in interest, Karma Townsend (“Karma”), Plaintiff’s only child.  (Chun Decl., ¶ 5.)  Karma is a minor (DOB 10/7/2008). 
 
Legal Standard
 
“A cause
of action that survives the death of the person entitled to commence an action
or proceeding passes to the decedent’s successor in interest . . . and an
action may be commenced by the decedent’s personal representatives or, if none,
by the decedent’s successor in interest.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 377.30.) 
After the death of a plaintiff, the court, on motion, shall allow a
pending action that does not abate to be continued by the decedent’s personal
representative or successor-in-interest. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 377.31.)  
The
person who seeks to commence or continue a pending action as the decedent’s
successor-in-interest shall execute and file an affidavit or declaration that
includes (1) the decedent’s name; (2) the date and place of decedent’s death;
(3) “No proceeding is now pending in California for administration of the
decedent’s estate”; (4) a copy of the final order showing the distribution of
the decedent’s cause of action to the successor-in-interest, if the decedent’s
estate was administered; (5) either the declarant is the decedent’s successor
in interest or the declarant is authorized to act on behalf of the decedent’s
successor in interest, with facts in support thereof; (6) “No other
person has a superior right to commence the action or proceeding or to be
substituted for the decedent in the pending action or proceeding”; and (7) that
the statements are true, under penalty of perjury.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32, subd. (a).)  The affidavit or declaration must attach a
certified copy of the decedent’s death certificate.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32, subd. (c).)
Discussion
Since the time of the filing of the complaint,
Plaintiff Jarrett Townsend has died.  The
pending motion seeks to substitute in Plaintiff’s minor son, Karma, for
Plaintiff.
As a minor, Karma may appear in a civil
action such as this one only through a guardian ad litem.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 372.)   Karma’s
application for appointment of a guardian ad litem was rejected on March 15,
2024, without prejudice, on procedural grounds (failure to use the correct
mandatory form).  
Accordingly, the hearing is continued for
approximately 21 days pending appointment of a guardian ad litem.
Conclusion
 
The Court
CONTINUES the hearing on the motion to substitute a successor in interest for
Plaintiff.
Moving party is
ORDERED to give notice.
 