  Case Number:  24STCV04219    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



VALSOFT CORPORATION, INC. 
  
        
  vs.
 
FLEET LOGIC LLC dba VELOCITY TRUCK RENTAL
  AND LEASING 
  


 Case
  No.:  24STCV04219    
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  June 7, 2024




 
Defendant’s
demurrer is OVERRULED as to the third cause of action, but SUSTAINED, WITH 15
DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND, as to the sixth cause of action. 
 
            On
2/20/2024, Plaintiff Valsoft Corporation, Inc. (Plaintiff) filed suit against
Fleet Logic LLC dba Velocity Truck Rental and Leasing (Defendant), alleging:
(1) misappropriation of trade secrets; (2) breach of contract; (3) breach of
the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (4) conversion; (5) unjust
enrichment; (6) unauthorized computer access and fraud; (7) violation of
computer fraud and abuse; and (8) unfair competition. 
 
            On
6/7/2024, Defendant demurred to the third and sixth causes of action. 
 
Factual Background 
 
            Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant stole unspecified trade secrets within database software
Valsoft owns. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff cannot state a claim for the breach of implied covenant
because it is superfluous to the breach of contract claim, and is preempted by Plaintiff’s
claim for misappropriation of trade secrets under the California Uniform Trade
Secrets Act (CUTSA). Defendant argues that Plaintiff cannot state a claim under
California’s Comprehensive Computer Data and Fraud Act (CDAFA) because the
allegations in the Complaint are not truly directed to unauthorized access of
Valsoft’s software (Fleet was an authorized licensee) but to alleged
unauthorized use of items that were accessed with admitted authorization.
Moreover, the Complaint does not allege the requisite damages or that any
alleged unauthorized access took place in California, as required under the
statute.
 
            After
review, the Court agrees in part. 
 
            As
to the third cause of action for breach of implied covenant, a plaintiff may
bring both a breach of contract claim and breach of the implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing claim. (Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24
Cal.4th 317, 327, 377.) However, in order to maintain both, a claim alleging
breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing must be based on
a different breach than the breach of contract claim. (Id.; Careau
& Co. v. Sec. Pac. Bus. Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1392
[observing that the plaintiff’s breach of implied covenant claim is “simply
duplicative [of her breach of contract cause of action], and thus may be
disregarded.”]) 
 
Here,
Plaintiff alleges that Fleet Logic breached the operative agreements by
“conspiring, engaging in, or facilitating theft of Valsoft’s intellectual
property and trade secrets; using confidential and proprietary information
without Valsoft’s knowledge or consent for its own benefit; using Valsoft’s
trade secrets and confidential information in a manner that was inconsistent
with the terms of the RAA and Addendum #2; and developing competing software
based on Valsoft’s proprietary assets and confidential information.”
(Complaint, ¶ 46.) Plaintiff’s breach of implied covenant claim recites nearly
identical factual allegations. (Cf. Complaint, ¶¶ 46, 53.) 
 
However, as
noted by Plaintiff in opposition, the claim is not duplicative where the
plaintiff alleges that the defendant acted in bad faith to frustrate the
contract’s benefits. (Guz, supra, 24 Cal. 4th 312, 353 n.18; See
Beaulieu Grp., LLC v. Bates (C.D. Cal. 2015) 2015 WL 13950821, at *7) )
(“[E]ven though they are based on the same factual allegations, the breach of
contract claim and the breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing claim are not duplicative because Plaintiff may be successful on one
but not the other.”) 
 
Here, Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant breached the implied covenant of fair dealing and abused
its discretion by using ODBC in bad faith and conspiring with offshore agents
to circumvent the terms of the parties’ contracts and misappropriate Fleet
Logic trade secrets and proprietary assets. (See e.g. Compl. ¶ 18
(“[Fleet Logic’s access to ODBC was granted as a discretionary privilege to
facilitate [Fleet Logic’s] business reporting.”).] As such, Plaintiff’s
allegations are distinct from and go beyond Defendant’s alleged improper use of
DMB, which is explicitly covered by Addendum #2. (See Compl. ¶¶ 19, 20,
24, 26, 44.) 
 
The Court
also finds that Plaintiff’s claims are not preempted on their face by CUTSA.
CUTSA expressly carves out claims for breach of contract and breach of the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. Cal. Civ. Code § 3426.7(b)(1)
(“This title does not affect (1) contractual remedies, whether or not based
upon misappropriation of a trade secret, . . . .”); see also Thrifty
Payless, Inc. v. The Americana at Brand (2013) LLC, 218 Cal. App.
4th 1230, 1244 (“A breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing is a breach of the contract . . .”). The cases relied upon by
Defendant, K.C. Multimedia and Silvaco, are distinguishable because
those decisions did not concern an implied covenant claims. (K.C.
Multimedia, Inc. v. Bank of America Technology & Operations, Inc.
(2009) 171 Cal. App. 4th 939; Silvaco Data Sys. v. Intel Corp. (2010)
184 Cal. App. 4th 210.) 
 
As for the
sixth cause of action for unauthorized computer access and fraud, the CDAFA
prohibits “tampering, interference, damage, and unauthorized access to lawfully
created computer data and computer systems.” (Cal. Penal Code § 502(a).)
Section 502 permits civil suit only where a computer system is accessed
“without permission” by an outsider who thereby causes the victim some damage
or loss. (See Chrisman v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 29,
34 [“Section 502 defines ‘access’ in terms redolent of ‘hacking’ or breaking into
a computer.”])
 
Here,
contrary to Defendant’s contention, Plaintiff does allege that Defendant
accessed the Software without permission: “Valsoft is informed and believes
Velocity knowingly and without permission altered, deleted, destroyed, or
otherwise used Valsoft’s data, computer, computer system, or computer network
in order to devise or execute a scheme to wrongfully control or obtain
Valsoft’s money, property, or data.” Complaint, ¶ 67.) 
 
However, the
Court agrees that such a generic allegation is conclusory and does not allege
facts which could show on what basis Plaintiff believes Defendant accessed
Plaintiff’s software. (Pridonoff v. Balokovich (1951) 36 Cal.2d 788,
792.) (“Plaintiff may allege on information and belief any matters that are not
within his personal knowledge, if he has information leading him to believe
that the allegations are true.”) As such, Plaintiff must allege some facts
which could show that it has a basis for believing this to be true.
 
The Court
also finds Plaintiff’s allegations of damage to be insufficient. While
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant “strained Valsoft’s servers” and “caused
operational stress to the Software,” Plaintiff alleges only that it is
“entitled to compensation for any expenditure reasonably and necessarily
incurred to verify that a computer system, computer network, computer program,
or data was or was not altered, damaged, or deleted by Velocity’s actions.”
(Complaint ¶ 71.) This creates uncertainty as to whether or not such expenses
were, in fact, incurred. 
 
However, the
Court declines to conclude that Plaintiff cannot state a CDAFA claim under
Section 502 claim based on extraterritorial activity. Defendant’s argument is
based on a single citation Sullivan v. Oracle Corp. (2011) 51 Cal.4th
1191, wherein the California Supreme Court wrote: : “[h]owever far the
Legislature’s power may theoretically extend, we presume the Legislature did
not intend a statute to be ‘operative, with respect to occurrences outside the
state, ... unless such intention is clearly expressed or reasonably to be
inferred from the language of the act or from its purpose, subject matter or
history.” (Id. at p. 1207.) However, this case involved alleged labor
violations, and did not involve conduct that took place over the internet or
through web servers. There is strong reason to believe that the same physical
boundary rules that apply to physical conduct do not apply in the same way to
internet-based conduct. Accordingly, the Court cannot conclude as a matter of
law based on this case that Plaintiff cannot assert a CDAFA based on
allegations that actions were undertaken through various internet service
providers “from multiple offshore locations” and different places across India.
(Complaint. at ¶ 24.) 
 
The Court
also declines to find that the CDAFA claim is preempted by CUTSA at this time. 
 
Plaintiff
will be afforded leave to amend to address the identified deficiencies. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer is overruled as to the third cause of action,
but sustained, with 15 days leave to amend, as to the sixth cause of action. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  June   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 