 Case Number:  22STCV32379    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion for Trial Preference filed by Plaintiff Sofia
Aparicio.
 
TENTATIVE
 
The motion is
granted.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On October 3,
2022, Plaintiff Sofia Aparicio (“Plaintiff”) filed her complaint against
Walmart, Inc. (“Defendant”), Brooke Bramlett, and Does 1 to 20 for General
Negligence and Premises Liability causes of action from a slip and fall
occurring on October 5, 2020.
 
On March 7, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a motion for trial preference. No opposition has been filed.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A party who is
over 70 years old may petition the court for a preference, which the court
shall grant if it makes both of the following findings: (1) the party has a
substantial interest in the action as a whole; and (2) the health of the party
is such that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the party’s
interest in the litigation.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (a).)  An
affidavit submitted in support of a motion for preference under this
subdivision may be signed by the attorney for the party seeking preference
based upon information and belief as to the medical diagnosis and prognosis of
any party.  (Id., § 36.5.) Moreover, the court in its discretion
may grant a motion for preference supported by a showing that satisfies the
court that the interests of justice will be served by granting the
preference.  (Id., § 36, subd. (e).)   
 
“Upon the
granting of such a motion for preference, the court shall set the matter for
trial not more than 120 days from that date and there shall be no continuance
beyond 120 days from the granting of the motion for preference except for
physical disability of a party or a party’s attorney, or upon a showing of good
cause stated in the record.”  (Id., § 36, subd. (f).)  “Any
continuance shall be for no more than 15 days and no more than one continuance
for physical disability may be granted to any party.”  (Ibid.)  
 
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff seeks an order for trial
preference under Code of Civil Procedure section 36(a) based on her age and status
of her health. Plaintiff submits in support the Declaration of Victor Cruz, who
states Plaintiff is 72 years old, and that her counsel, based on review of her
medical records, believes Plaintiff has high cholesterol, high blood pressure,
and is pre-diabetic. (Cruz Decl., ¶¶ 4 & 8.) Further, Plaintiff underwent
surgery in relation to her injury sustained in this action, but her health has
continued to worsen. (Id., ¶ 9.)
Counsel further attests that he believes
that Plaintiff will not possess the mental acuity to participate in trial
without the trial preference order. (Id., ¶ 12.) 
No opposition has been filed.
Based on the evidence in the record, the
Court finds that Plaintiff has a substantial interest in the matter as a whole
and that the health of Plaintiff is such that a preference is necessary to
prevent prejudicing Plaintiff’s interest in the litigation. plaintiff and that
her overall health status requires the trial preference in the interest of
justice.
Therefore, Plaintiff’s motion is GRANTED.
Trial shall be advanced to a date in early/mid October 2024.  
The Court also notes that Defendant Walmart
has timely filed a motion for summary judgment, which is set to be heard March
3, 2025. Defendant has a right to have its timely motion for summary judgment
heard before trial.  Accordingly, in
connection with the advancement of the trial date, the hearing on Defendant’s
motion for summary judgment will also be advanced to a date in early September
2024.
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER 
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion for
preferential trial setting.
 
The Court ADVANCES the trial date from April
16, 2025, to a date between October 9 and 11, 2024.
 
The Court ADVANCES the summary judgment
hearing date from March 3, 2025, to September 9, 2024. 
 
Final Status Conference and all deadlines are
reset based on the new trial date.
 
Moving Party is to give notice.