 Case Number:  23STCV13465    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


January
  18, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV13465




MOTIONS:  


(1)  
  Compel Responses to Document Demands, Set One
(2)  
  Compel Responses to Interrogatories, Set One
(3)  
  Deem Admitted Request for Admissions, Set One




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Jamie Merchain




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Los Angeles Dodgers, LLC



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Plaintiff Jamie Merchain (Plaintiff)
moves to compel Defendant Los Angeles Dodgers, LLC (Defendant) to serve full
and complete answers to Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories,
Set One, and Document Demands, Set One. Plaintiff also moves to deem admitted his
Request for Admissions, Set One against Defendant. Plaintiff seeks monetary sanctions.
Defendant opposes. Plaintiff replies.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Interrogatories
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a
timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 (b).) Failure to timely respond waives
all objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290 (a)(1),
(a)(2).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no
responses have been served and no meet and confer is required when a party does
not respond to discovery requests. All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
If a motion to compel responses is filed, the Court shall impose a
monetary sanction against the losing party “unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
 
Requests
for Production
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.300, if a party fails to
serve a timely response to a demand for inspection, the party making the demand
may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Code Civ. Pro §
2031.300 (b).) The party who fails to serve a timely response to a demand for
inspection waives any objection to the demand unless the court finds that the
party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance or
party’s failure was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300 (a)(1)- (2).) 
 
Courts shall impose a monetary sanction against any party who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for
inspection unless the party acted with substantial justification or other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
 
Deem
Admitted
 
Where
there has been no timely response to a request for admission under Code of
Civil Procedure section 2033.010, the propounding party may move for an order
that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in
the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction. 
(Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)  The party who failed to
respond waives any objections to the demand, unless the court grants that party
relief from the waiver, upon a showing that the party (1) has subsequently
served a substantially compliant response, and (2) that the party’s failure to
respond was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
(Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subds. (a)(1)-(2).)  The court “shall”
grant a motion to deem admitted requests for admissions, “unless it finds that
the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served,
before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for
admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.”  (Code
of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) 
 
Where
a party fails to provide a timely response to requests for admission, “[i]t is mandatory
that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a
timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Plaintiff represents that he served Form Interrogatories, Set
One, Special Interrogatories, Set One, Document Demands, Set One, and Request
for Admissions, Set One on Defendant on July 28, 2023. (Koppelman Decl. ¶ 3,
Exh. A–D.) Responses were due August 25, 2023. (Id. ¶ 12.) An extension was
granted, without objections, for September 29, 2023. (Id. ¶ 13–14.)  Since then, no responses have been served.
(Id. ¶ 19.)
 
In opposition, Defendant argues that it will serve responses before
the hearing, rending the motions moot. In reply, Plaintiff asserts it will take
the motions off calendar if responses are served. 
 
 Therefore, because responses
have not been served, the motions to compel and deem admitted will be granted
if Plaintiff asserts at the hearing that verified responses were not served. Unverified
discovery responses are tantamount to no response at all, and are subject to a motion to compel responses (rather than a
motion to compel further responses).¿ (Appleton v. Superior Court (1988)
206 Cal. App. 3d 632, 635-36.)¿  
 
Plaintiff also
requests $1,000.00 in monetary sanctions for each motion against Defendant, representing
an hourly rate of $450.00 for 2 hours preparing each motion, 2 hours for the
reply, and 1 hour for the hearing, plus the $61.65 filing fee.  Defendant argues there is no basis for
sanctions if complete responses are served before the hearing. Defendant’s
counsel appears to argue it did not respond to the discovery due to a separate
trial throughout November 2023 and the fact it was moving offices during that
time. (Opp., 2.) However, this does not explain why the outstanding discovery
responses were not served in September 2023, after the extension was granted. 
 
As a
result, the Court finds sanctions are warranted because Defendant has failed to
timely respond. However, the amount requested is excessive due to the type of
motions at issue. Therefore, the Court awards sanctions in the amount of $2,209.95
(1.5 hours of attorney time to file the motion and reply, and appear at
hearing, plus the $61.65 filing fee, for each of the three motions).[1] 
             
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Form Interrogatories, Set One,
Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Documents Demand, Set One is GRANTED. Defendant
Los Angeles Dodgers, LLC shall provide verified responses, without objection,
within 30 days.
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to deem admitted Requests for
Admission, Set One against Defendant. 
 
The Court further GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions
against Defendant and its counsel of record, jointly and severally, in the
reduced amount of $2,209.95.
Said monetary sanctions are to be paid to counsel for Plaintiff within 30 days
of the date of this order.
 
Plaintiff
shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such. 


