 Case Number:  22STCV18225    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


January
  18, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV18225




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Nunc Pro Tunc Order Correcting the Date of Filing on Complaint




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiffs Lorena Delgado Marchan, Jennifer
  Delgado, Gabby Bahena, a minor, Emiliano Delgado Jr, a minor, and Ashley
  Delgado, a minor




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiffs Lorena Delgado Marchan, Jennifer Delgado, Gabby Bahena,
Emiliano Delgado Jr, a minor, and Ashley Delgado, a minor (“Plaintiffs”) move for
a nunc pro tunc order correcting the date of filing the complaint. 
 
Currently, the record shows the complaint was filed on June 2, 2022. Plaintiffs
contend they filed the complaint on May 31, 2022, but that it was rejected.
Plaintiffs therefore ask the Court to deem the filing of the complaint on May
31, 2022, in order to avoid potential statute of limitation issues. 
 
Plaintiffs make this motion under
Code of Civil Procedure section 473(d) and California Rules of Court, rules
5.560(a) and 5.560(f). 
 
Defendant Cu Cong Ca (“Defendant”)
was personally served the summons and complaint on November 1, 2023. On
November 15, 2023, Defendant filed an answer. 
 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A court clerk has
no discretion to reject a pleading that substantially conforms to the rules. (Rojas
v. Cutsforth (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 774, 777-78 [the filing functions of a
clerk are merely ministerial].) If the clerk refuses to file the complaint due
to an insignificant defect, it is deemed filed, for statute of limitations purposes,
on the date it was first presented for filing. (Id. at 778.) Where a defect is
insubstantial, the clerk should, instead, file the complaint and notify the
attorney or party that the perceived defect should be corrected at the earliest
opportunity. (Id. at 777; see also Carlson v. State of California
Department of Fish & Game (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 1268, 1270, 1276 [the
grounds for rejecting a filing of a complaint must be based in statute or the California
Rules of Court, and not on local rules].) A paper is deemed filed when it is
deposited with the clerk with directions to file the paper. (Dillon v. Superior Court of Nevada County (1914) 24
Cal.App. 760, 765.) 
 
In Rojas, a clerk rejected a
complaint filed within the statute of limitations period because the plaintiff
failed to sign the declaration of court assignment and the summons did not
reflect the address of the proper division of the court. (Rojas, supra, 67 Cal.App.4th
at 776.) The plaintiff then corrected the mistake and re-filed the complaint
after the statute of limitations expired. (Id.) The court held the
defects were unsubstantial. Additionally, there was no authority supporting the
clerk’s rejection. (Id. at 777-78.) The court reversed the summary judgment
entered on statute of limitations grounds with instructions to deem the
complaint filed on the initial date of filing. (Id. at 778.) 
 
Under California Rules of Court,
rules 5.560, “[s]ubject to the procedural requirements prescribed by this
chapter, an order made by the court may at any time be changed, modified, or
set aside.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 5.560(a).) Additionally, “[c]lerical
errors in judgments, orders, or other parts of the record may be corrected by
the court at any time on the court's own motion or on motion of any party and
may be entered nunc pro tunc.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 5.560(f).) 
 
“In the complaint, the title of the
action shall include the names of all the parties; but, except as otherwise
provided by statute or rule of the Judicial Council, in other pleadings it is
sufficient to state the name of the first party on each side with an
appropriate indication of other parties.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 422.40.) 
 
“The Judicial Council has preempted
all local rules relating to pleadings, demurrers, ex parte applications,
motions, discovery, provisional remedies, and the form and format of papers. No
trial court, or any division or branch of a trial court, may enact or enforce
any local rule concerning these fields. All local rules concerning these fields
are null and void unless otherwise permitted or required by a statute or a rule
in the California Rules of Court.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.20(a).)  
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, the Notice of Court Rejection
of Electronic Filing shows that the Court received Plaintiff’s complaint and
summons on May 31, 2022. (Naimi Decl. ¶ 9, Attach. 2.) The Notice of Rejection
was generated on June 1, 2022. The following was the reason for the rejection:
“Did not indicate or label minors and their guardian ad litem in caption of
complaint. If there is not enough space, use an attachment. Also include an
application for guardian ad litem for each minor. Correct and resubmit.”
(Ibid.) 
 
However, according to the Proof of
Service filed November 3, 2023, Defendant has not received notice of the
instant motion. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 1014 [“A defendant appears in an action
when the defendant answers . . . . After appearance, a defendant or the
defendant's attorney is entitled to notice of all subsequent proceedings of
which notice is required to be given.”].) Therefore, the Court denies the
motion as procedurally improper. 
 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the motion for a Nunc Pro Tunc Order Correcting the Date of
Filing on Complaint is DENIED. 
 
Plaintiffs shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 