 Case Number:  23STCV06720    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


January
  18, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV06720




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Set Aside Default




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan
  Transportation Authority  




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Amanda Alcala



 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 28, 2023, Plaintiff Amanda Alcala (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority (“Defendant”). 
 
On April 6, 2023, Plaintiff served Defendant with the summons and
complaint. 
 
On July 25, 2023, default was entered against Defendant. 
 
On November 8, 2023, Defendant filed this motion to set aside the default
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b) and 473.5. 
 
Plaintiff opposes and Defendant replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Under Code
of Civil Procedure section 473(b), the Court may relieve a party from a default
entered against him through his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect.  This application must be filed
no more than six months after entry of the order from which relief is sought,
and must contain an affidavit of fault demonstrating the moving party’s
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. 
 
A mistake
is a basis for relief under section 473 when by reason of the mistake a party
failed to make a timely response.  Surprise occurs when a party is
unexpectedly placed in a position to his injury without any negligence of his
own. Excusable neglect is a basis for relief when the party has shown some
reasonable excuse for the default.  (Credit Managers Association of
California v. National Independent Business Alliance (1984) 162 Cal.App.3d
1166, 1173; Davis v. Thayer (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 892, 905.)  Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, the moving party bears the burden of
demonstrating an excusable ground, such as fraud or mistake, justifying a
court’s vacating a judgment.  (Basinger v. Roger & Wells (1990)
220 Cal.App.3d 16, 23–24.)   
 
Relief under
this section is mandatory when based on an attorney affidavit of fault;
otherwise, it is discretionary. (Id.) 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
            As an
initial matter, Defendant’s motion is timely since it was filed within six
months after default was entered. 
 
Here, Defendant asserts that Carl Warren
& Company (“Carl Warren”) is its third-party claims adjuster responsible
for reviewing summons and complaints served on Defendant and thereafter referring
cases to defense attorneys. (Motion, 6.) Defendant argues that a complaint and
summons is first received by Defendant’s Legal Services Department and then
physically transferred to Carl Warren, which is located in the same building.
Defendant argues Carl Warren never received the documents, and therefore, the
documents were likely lost during the transfer process. Defendant offers the
declaration of Uchenna Ikobi, a claims supervisor for Carl Warren who states
they learned of the lawsuit on September 20, 2023 after receiving Plaintiff’s
Application for Extension of Time to File Requests for Entry of Default
Judgment. (Ikobi Decl. ¶ 5.) Therefore, Defendant argues failure to transfer
the complaint and summons was due to excusable neglect. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff first argues Defendant
did not file this motion within a reasonable time because it was filed more
than three months after entry of default. (Opp., 5.) However, here Defendant
asserts it learned of the lawsuit on September 20, 2023. (Ikobi Decl. ¶ 5.)
Therefore, since the motion was filed on November 8, 2023, it was filed within
a reasonable time. Plaintiff also argues that on May 26, 2023, she emailed
Melissa West, a Carl Warren claims adjuster, informing her that a complaint was
served. (Opp., 2.) However, by July 17, 2023, Ms. West had still not received
the complaint. While Plaintiff argues Defendant was on notice of the complaint
by May 26, 2023, she does not establish that Defendant’s claim adjuster had
obtained the summons and complaint. “Because the law favors disposing of cases
on their merits, ‘any doubts in applying section 473 must be resolved in favor
of the party seeking relief from default [citations].’” (Rappleyea v.
Campbell¿(1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 980.) Therefore, because Defendant asserts
the summons and complaint was lost during the transfer to Carl Warren, the
Court finds that it has shown a reasonable excuse for the default. 
 
As a result, the Court declines to
address Defendant’s argument regarding section 473.5. 
 
Plaintiff requests the Court to
order Defendant to pay $500 in sanctions and pay $5,748.22 in attorney fees to
Plaintiff’s counsel. (Opp., 8.) Defendant does not address this request in the
reply. 
 
“Whenever the court grants relief
from a default, default judgment, or dismissal based on any of the provisions
of this section, the court may do any of the following:
(A) Impose a penalty of no greater
than one thousand dollars ($1,000) upon an offending attorney or party.
(B) Direct that an offending
attorney pay an amount no greater than one thousand dollars ($1,000) to the
State Bar Client Security Fund.
(C) Grant other relief as is
appropriate.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc. 473(c)(1).) 
 
Plaintiff’s
request for $5,746.22 exceeds the $1,000 limit in section 473(c). However, the
Court finds that a penalty is warranted since Plaintiff offers proof that it
was communicating with Carl Warren before default was entered, and that the
complaint and summons was served. (Mikayelyan Decl. ¶ 7–9, Exh. E.) The
Statement of Damages was also served on June 6, 2023. (Id. ¶ 10, Exh. F.) In
response, Ms. West from Carl Warren informed Plaintiff: “I have not received
anything to date. I will be on the look out.” (Exh. E, May 30, 2023 email.) In
response to Plaintiff’s follow-up on July 5, 2023, Ms. West stated “I have not
heard from the city.” (Exh. E, July 17, 2023 email.) Therefore, Defendants,
through their agent Carl Warren, could have taken more proactive steps to avoid
entry of default by attempting to locate the complaint, rather than waiting for
it to appear. Under these circumstances, the Court
finds that a penalty is appropriate.  
             
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to set aside the default
entered against it on July 25, 2023. Defendant shall file and serve its
proposed answer within 15 days.  
 
Defendant shall pay $500 to counsel for Plaintiff within 30 days. 
 
Defendant to provide notice and file a proof of service of such.
 