  Case Number:  23TRCV01096    Hearing Date:   June 10, 2024    Dept:  P Having considered defendants’ motion, plaintiff’s opposition, and defendants’ reply, and the associated declarations and exhibits, the court rules as follows: motion to transfer and consolidate actions is DENIED in its entirety.I. PROCEDURAL BACKGROUNDThis action arises from an automobile accident that occurred on April 14, 2021, in the intersection of West Redondo Beach Boulevard and South Berendo Avenue in the City of Gardena. (Complaint, ¶ 7.)On April 10, 2023, Plaintiff Mandy Lambert (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint for Negligence against Defendants Breanna Nicole Sanchez and Lisa R Sanchez (collectively “Defendants”).On May 16, 2023, Defendants filed a joint Answer to the Complaint.On January 25, 2024, this action was reassigned to the Honorable David K. Reinert in Department P at Torrance Courthouse effective January 29, 2024.On May 15, 2024, Defendants filed and served the instant Motion to Transfer and Consolidate Actions. Defendants seek an order transferring to this Court the action entitled Mandy Lambert v.Jaime Lynn Bauer, et al., Case No. 37-2023-00021750-CU-PA-CTL (the “Bauer Action”), which is now pending in the Superior Court of San Diego County.On May 15, 2024, Defendants filed a Notice of Related Case seeking to relate the instant action and the Bauer Action.On May 28, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the motion, to which Defendants replied on May 31, 2024.II. FACTUAL BACKGROUNDPlaintiff alleges that, on April 14, 2021, in the City of Gardena, Defendants’ vehicle collided with her vehicle, which caused her to sustain injuries. (Complaint, ¶¶ 7-13.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Breanna Nicole Sanchez was driving the vehicle that collided with Plaintiff’s vehicle. (Complaint, ¶ 9.)III. LEGAL STANDARDCode Civ. Proc., § 404.1 provides that:“Coordination of civil actions sharing a common question of fact or law is appropriate if one judge hearing all of the actions for all purposes in a selected site or sites will promote the ends of justice taking into account whether the common question of fact or law is predominating and significant to the litigation; the convenience of the parties, witnesses, and counsel; the relative development of the actions and the work product of counsel; the efficient utilization of judicial facilities and manpower; the calendar of the courts; the disadvantages of duplicative and inconsistent rulings, orders, or judgments; and, the likelihood of settlement of the actions without further litigation should coordination be denied.”(Code Civ. Proc., § 404.1.)“A judge may, on motion, transfer an action or actions from another court to that judge’s court for coordination with an action involving a common question of fact or law within the meaning of Section 404. The motion shall be supported by a declaration stating facts showing that the actions meet the standards specified in Section 404.1, are not complex as defined by the Judicial Council and that the moving party has made a good faith effort to obtain agreement to transfer from all parties to each action.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 403.)Los Angeles County Court Rules, Rule 3.3(g)(1) provides that “[c]ases may not be consolidated unless they are in the same department. A motion to consolidate two or more cases may be noticed and heard after the cases, initially filed in different departments, have been related in a single department, or if the cases were already assigned to that department.”IV. DISCUSSIONMoving Party’s ArgumentsDefendants contend that the instant action and the Bauer Action involve the same injuries and common questions of law and fact.Responding Party’s OppositionPlaintiff argues that the motion should be denied because both actions are not pending before this Court and the actions sought to be consolidated do not involve common facts.Moving Party’s ReplyOn reply, Defendants assert that transferring the Bauer Action to this Court and consolidating such action with the instant action is appropriate.Merits of the MotionA. Declaration of Defendants’ CounselIn support of the motion, Defendants’ counsel, Susan Rousier (“Rousier”), provides a declaration. Ms. Rousier states the following: this action arises out of an April 14, 2021 motor vehicle accident in which Plaintiff’s vehicle was rear-ended by a vehicle driven by Defendant Brenna Nicole Sanchez. (Rousier Decl., ¶ 2.) Plaintiff claims that the April 14, 2021 accident caused injuries to her neck and her back, as well as a traumatic brain injury. (Id.) On April 10, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint for damages arising from the April 14, 2021. (Id.)On June 2, 2021, Plaintiff was involved in a second motor vehicle accident with a vehicle driven by Jamie Lynn Bauer, which Plaintiff alleges caused injuries to her neck and back, as well as a traumatic brain injury and an exacerbation of these injuries. (Id., ¶ 3.) On May 23, 2023, in San Diego Superior Court, Plaintiff filed the Bauer Action. (Id.) Counsel for Plaintiff, Joseph S. Farzam, who represents Plaintiff in the instant action and in the Bauer Action, will not agree to stipulate to the transfer and consolidation of the instant action and the Bauer Action. (Id., ¶ 4.) Counsel for defendants Jamie Lynn Bauer and Byron Bauer in the Bauer Action brought a motion in such action to consolidate this action and the Bauer Action, which was denied. (Id., ¶¶ 4-6; Exhs. A-C.) Both cases plead the same causes of action for negligence. (Id., ¶ 7.) Ms. Rousier argues that the actions share common questions of law and fact. (Id., ¶ 7.) Ms. Rousier then argues that the standards for consolidation have been met such as the actions not being complex, consolidation promoting the convenience of the parties and witnesses, and that consolidation will encourage settlement. (Id., ¶¶ 8-9.) To allow sufficient time to effectuate the transfer and consolidation, Defendants seek a thirty-day stay of proceedings. (Id., ¶ 10.)B. Declaration of Plaintiff’s CounselAni A. Grigoryan (“Grigoryan”) sets forth facts indicating that this action was filed before the Bauer Action. (Grigoryan Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.) The Bauer Action involves a June 21, 2021 car accidentthat occurred on the 5 Freeway in the City of Carlsbad, California. (Id., ¶ 5.) Counsel argues that Defendants’ contention that consolidation is appropriate because Plaintiff alleges injuries to the same body parts is wrong. (Id., ¶ 6.)C. Appropriateness of ConsolidationThe Court finds that transfer of the Bauer Action to this Court and consolidation of the Bauer Action with the instant action is inappropriate. The instant action and the Bauer Action involve two different motor vehicle accidents, such accidents occurred on different dates, and such accidents occurred in different counties. Also, the defendants in each of the actions are different. Despite the nearness in time, the events giving rise to the cases are fully distinct and not properly related. The fact that Plaintiff has alleged negligence in both actions does not mean that the two actions involve common questions of fact. The mere fact that Plaintiff claims the same injuries in the instant action and the Bauer Action does not per se warrant consolidation and the denial of consolidation does not preclude admission of evidence as to the other collision at trial.As such, the Court does not find transfer and consolidation to be appropriate.V. CONCLUSIONBased on the foregoing, the DENIES Defendants’ motion to transfer and consolidate actions in its entirety.