 Case Number:  24TRCV00993    Hearing Date:   June 10, 2024    Dept:  P Having considered defendant’s demurrer, plaintiffs’ opposition, and defendant’s reply, the court rules as follows: the demurrer to the first and second causes of action in the complaint is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.I. PROCEDURAL BACKGROUNDOn March 21, 2024, Plaintiffs Angel Ann Brown and Jimmy Lee Brown (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint against Defendant Hilbert Haghnazarzadeh (“Defendant”) and DOES 1 to 20, inclusive, alleging causes of action for: (1) Negligence; and (2) Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability.On April 22, 2024, Defendant filed a demurrer to the first and second causes of action in the Complaint.On May 28, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition to the demurrer and Defendant filed a reply brief on May 31, 2024.On May 31, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a Notice of Errata as to the opposition and provides a signed signature page for the opposition, which was omitted in their May 28, 2024 filing.II. FACTUAL BACKGROUNDPlaintiffs are residential/commercial tenants of Defendant at a structure of dubious legality located at 12812-12816 Van Ness, Gardena, CA 90249 (the “Property”). (Complaint, ¶ 2.) Plaintiffs initially rented the Property from Defendant in February 2021. (Complaint, ¶ 2.) The Property suffered from serious habitability problems which make it unfit for use as a residence and a business. (Complaint, ¶¶ 3-4.) Plaintiffs resided in one portion of the Property and opened a barbeque stand in the restaurant area of the Property. (Complaint, ¶ 3.)Plaintiffs allege that rats and roaches infested the Property, and horrific sewage backups literally inundated Plaintiffs’ bathroom with feces and sewage. (Complaint, ¶ 4.) Plaintiffs asked Defendants for repairs but were rebuffed. (Complaint, ¶ 4.) Instead, Defendants tried to force Plaintiffs from the Property by shutting off their utilities. (Complaint, ¶ 4.) In or around February 2023, Plaintiff Angel Brown suffered a serious injury in the Property’s flooded bathroom and slipped and fell headfirst. (Complaint, ¶ 5.) Living and working with an overwhelming vermin infestation, as well as near-constant sewer leaks, in an illegal and dilapidated structure has left Plaintiffs with physical injuries and severe emotional distress, as well as significant damage to their personal property. (Complaint, ¶ 6.)III. LEGAL STANDARDA party may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) A party may also demur to a complaint on the grounds that the complaint is uncertain. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) A special demurrer for uncertainty under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (f) is disfavored and will only be sustained where the pleading is so bad that defendant or plaintiff cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed against him or her. (Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)When considering demurrers, courts accept all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) On demurrer, a court does “not accept contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Simonyan v. Nationwide Insurance Company of America (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 889, 895.)Although courts construe pleadings liberally, sufficient facts must be alleged to support the allegations pled to survive a demurrer. (Rakestraw v. California Physicians' Serv. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d335, 349.) The burden is on the party who filed the pleading subject to demurrer to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.)IV. DISCUSSIONMoving Party’s ArgumentsDefendant contends that the Complaint is uncertain and fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against Defendant. Specifically, Defendant argues that Plaintiffs fail to allege any actual facts.Responding Party’s OppositionPlaintiffs argue that the Complaint pleads sufficient facts to constitute causes of action for negligence and breach of the implied warranty of habitability. Plaintiffs further assert that the Complaint is not uncertain.Moving Party’s ReplyOn reply, Defendant argues that the Complaint fails to allege any actual substantive facts to support a cause of action against Defendant.Merits of the DemurrerA. Meet and ConferBefore filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required to meet and confer “in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the demurrer for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)The Court finds that the meet and confer requirement has not been met. Defendant’s counsel, Parshant C. Mahbubani (“Mahbubani”), attests to sending correspondence to Plaintiffs’ counsel on April 15, 2024 addressing the issues raised in the demurrer. (Mahbubani Decl., ¶ 2; Exh. A.)Defendant did not meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by videoconference regarding the issues raised in the demurrer. As such, the Court finds that the meet and confer requirement has not been satisfied. The Court, however, will still consider the merits of the demurrer. The Court reminds the parties of the need to comply with the requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure.B. UncertaintyInitially, the Court will address the contention of Defendant that the Complaint is uncertain. A demurrer for uncertainty will “not be sustained if the allegations are sufficiently clear to apprise the defendant of the issues that must be met, even if the allegations of the complaint may not be as clear and detailed as might be desired.” (Bacon v. Wahrhaftig (1950) 97 Cal.App.2d 599,606.) “A demurrer for uncertainty will not lie where the ambiguous facts alleged are presumptively within the knowledge of the demurring party.” (Ibid.)Here, the Court Finds that the Complaint is uncertain and therefore GRANTS the demurrer of Defendant on the grounds of uncertainty. While the Complaint apprises Defendant of the issues that must be met and sets forth the grounds for the negligence and breach of implied warranty of habitability causes of action, the terms of the rental agreement are missing from the complaint. Although Plaintiffs assert that they are “residential/commercial tenants” that is insufficient to give rise to these causes of action, as there are distinct duties required of a residential landlord that are not required of a commercial landlord. Therefore, the absence of the rental agreement makes the complaint fatally uncertain.C. First Cause of Action for NegligenceIn order to state a claim for negligence, Plaintiffs must allege the elements of (1) “the existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3) “proximate cause resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)The Court finds that the first cause of action for negligence is insufficiently alleged. (Complaint, ¶¶ 12-17.) While Plaintiffs do allege a duty, breach, and proximate cause, Plaintiffs factual allegations are conclusory. (Id.) The Court, cannot accept conclusions of fact or law on demurrer pursuant to Simonyan, supra, 78 Cal.App.5th 889, 895.The demurrer of Defendant to the first cause of action in the Complaint is SUSTAINED.D. Second Cause of Action for Breach of Implied Warranty of HabitabilityTo establish a breach of the implied warranty of habitability, Plaintiffs must establish (1) “the existence of a material defective condition affecting the premises’ habitability,” (2) “notice to the landlord of the condition within a reasonable time after the tenant’s discovery of the condition,” (3) “the landlord was given a reasonable time to correct the deficiency, and” (4) “resulting damages.” (Erlach v. Sierra Asset Servicing, LLC (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1281, 1297.)The second cause of action for breach of implied warranty of habitability is not sufficiently alleged. (Complaint, ¶¶ 18-24.) Plaintiffs have failed to allege that a materially defective condition affected the habitability of the Property, that Plaintiffs provided Defendant with notice of such condition within a reasonable time after its discovery, and that Defendant was given reasonable time to correct the deficiency as required by Erlach, supra, 226 Cal.App.4th 1281, 1297. Moreover, as explained above, the Implied Warranty of Habitability is only implicated in residential tenancies.Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer of Defendant to the second cause of action in the Complaint.E. Leave to AmendThe Court does finds that there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Plaintiffs may allege facts, if proven, that would state a cause of action for negligence and breach of implied warranty of habitability.V. CONCLUSIONBased on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer of Defendant to the first and second causes of action in the Complaint with 20 days leave to amend.Defendant Hilbert Haghnazarzadeh to give notice.