Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 22STCV37943
Plaintiff's Name: Nick J. Di Berardino, Michael Di Berardino, The Priscilla Di Berardino Trust
Defendant's Name: 13400 Sherman Way, LLC dba Valley Palms Care Center
People-Names: Nick J. Di Berardino, Michael Di Berardino, Priscilla Di Berardino
Company-Names: 13400 Sherman Way, LLC, Valley Palms Care Center
Places: 13400 Sherman Way, Valley Palms Care Center
Dates: December 5, 2022, November 16, 2023, December 15, 2023, February 7, 2024, February 13, 2024, February 21, 2024
Events: Demurrer, Hearing, Meet and Confer, Statute of Limitations
Money: $30,000.00
Intentions: Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress
Facts: Priscilla Di Berardino received care at Valley Palms Care Center from November 20, 2020, to December 7, 2020, Defendant lost Priscilla's replacement teeth, Plaintiffs allege Defendant's negligence caused Priscilla's significant bedsores
Disputes: Standing, Statute of Limitations, Sufficiency of pleadings
Acts: Negligence, Breach of Bailment, Conversion, Unfair Business Practices, Infliction of Emotional Distress
Agreements: Bailment contract, Statute of Limitations
Laws: California Civil Code, California Business and Professions Code, California Rules of Court
Case Citations: Hahn v. Mirda, Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co., Fire Ins. Exchange v. Superior Court, County of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Co., Needelman v. DeWolf Realty Co., Inc., IIG Wireless, Inc. v. Yi, Berry v. Frazier, Mendoza v. Rast Produce Co., Inc., Simonian v. Patterson, Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc.
Statutes: California Code of Civil Procedure, California Business and Professions Code
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant
Significant Statements: Defendant's demurrer is sustained in its entirety as to Plaintiffs Nicholas J. Di Berardino and Michael Di Berardino individually with leave to amend, Defendant's demurrer is overruled in its entirety as to statute of limitations grounds, etc.
```

And here is a summary in English text:

The tentative ruling is a decision by Judge Upinder S. Kalra regarding a demurrer filed by the defendant, 13400 Sherman Way, LLC dba Valley Palms Care Center, against the plaintiffs, Nick J. Di Berardino, Michael Di Berardino, and The Priscilla Di Berardino Trust. The demurrer challenges the sufficiency of the plaintiffs' First Amended Complaint, which alleges negligence, breach of bailment, conversion, unfair business practices, and infliction of emotional distress.

The judge sustains the demurrer in part, finding that the plaintiffs failed to adequately plead standing and that the second, third, and fourth causes of action are time-barred. The judge overrules the demurrer in part, finding that the first cause of action is not time-barred and that the plaintiffs have sufficiently pleaded a cause of action for negligence.

The judge also finds that the plaintiffs failed to adequately plead a cause of action for breach of bailment, conversion, and unfair business practices, and sustains the demurrer to those causes of action with leave to amend. The judge overrules the demurrer to the fifth cause of action, which has been withdrawn by the plaintiffs.

The judge orders the defendant to give notice of the decision and grants the plaintiffs 20 days to amend their pleadings.