  Case Number:  22STCV37943    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   February
21, 2024                                           
 
CASE NAME:           Nick
J. Di Berardino, et al. v. 13400 Sherman Way, LLC
 
CASE NO.:                22STCV37943

 
DEMURRER
TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendant
13400 Sherman Way, LLC dba Valley Palms Care Center
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs Nick J. Berardino,
Michael Di Berardino, and The Priscilla Di Berardino Trust
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      Demurrer
to the First Cause of Action as barred by the statute of limitations, for
lacking standing, and for failure to state sufficient facts to constitute a
cause of action;
2.      Demurrer
to the Second, Third, Fourth, and Fifth Causes of Action for lacking standing
and for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.[1]
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Demurrer
is SUSTAINED in its entirety as to Plaintiffs Nicholas J. Di Berardino and
Michael Di Berardino individually with leave to amend;
2.      Demurrer
is OVERRULED in its entirety as to statute of limitations grounds;
3.      Demurrer
is OVERRULED as to the First Cause of Action;
4.      Demurrer
is SUSTAINED as to the Second, Third, and Fourth Causes of Action with leave to
amend;
5.      Demurrer
is OVERRULED as moot as to the Fifth Cause of Action due to Plaintiffs’
withdrawal of that cause of action.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On December 5, 2022, Plaintiffs Nick J. Di Berardino,
Michael Di Berardino, and The Priscilla Di Berardino Trust (Plaintiffs) filed a
Complaint against Defendant 13400 Sherman Way, LLC dba Valley Palms Care Center
(Defendant) for (1) Negligence, (2) Breach of Bailment, (3) Conversion, (4)
Unfair Business Practices, and (5) Infliction of Emotional Distress.
 
On November 16, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended
Complaint (FAC) with the same causes of action. According to the FAC, decedent
Priscilla Di Berardino (Priscilla) received care at Defendant’s rehabilitative
treatment center after a hospital stay from November 20, 2020, to December 7,
2020. Plaintiffs allege that Defendant lost Priscilla’s set of replacement
teeth and failed to provide the minimum level of care necessary for Priscilla. 
 
On December 15, 2023, Defendant filed a demurrer. On
February 7, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition. On February 13, 2024,
Defendant filed a reply.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Demurrer
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states
a cause of action.¿(Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context.¿In a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the
evidence or other extrinsic matters. …. The only issue involved in a demurrer
hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous
matters, states a cause of action.”¿(Hahn,
supra, at p. 747.) 
 
Meet
and Confer
 
Prior to filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required
to satisfy their meet and confer obligations pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc.
(CCP) §430.41 and demonstrate that they so satisfied their meet and confer
obligation by submitting a declaration pursuant to CCP §430.41(a)(2) & (3).
Defendant sent one letter to Plaintiffs’ counsel to initial meet and confer but
did not receive a response. (Le Melle Decl. ¶ 3.) One letter is hardly
sufficient meet and confer efforts. Still, failure to
meet and confer is not grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer, or grant or
deny a motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, subd. (a)(4); 435.5 subd.
(a)(4).)
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Standing
 
Defendant contends that Plaintiffs failed to allege an ownership
interest in Priscilla’s replacement teeth or that they bring this lawsuit on
Priscilla’s behalf. Plaintiffs argue that Nick J. Di Berardino has standing as
Priscilla’s successor in interest and has so alleged.[2]
Defendant replies that Plaintiffs fail to identify which Plaintiff asserts each
claim pursuant to Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 2.112.[3]
 
Upon reviewing the FAC, the court agrees with Defendant, in
part, that Plaintiffs failed to sufficiently plead standing. The court
disagrees with Defendant that Plaintiffs failed to plead standing at all.
Indeed, Plaintiff Nicholas J. Di Berardino (Nicholas) is the successor in
interest to the rights of Priscilla Di Berardino. (FAC ¶ 17.) As such, Nicholas
has standing because Priscilla would have had standing.[4]
The court agrees that the FAC does not sufficiently allege how Nicholas and
Michael have standing. 
 
Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the FAC
in its entirety as to Plaintiffs Nicholas J. Di Berardino and Michael Di
Berardino, individually, with leave to amend.
 
First Cause of
Action – Negligence
 
i.                   
Statute
of Limitations
Defendant contends that the applicable statute of
limitations was one year for professional negligence rather than two years for
general negligence because the alleged negligent care of Priscilla and the
alleged negligent loss of Pricsilla’s personal property occurred within
Defendant’s rendering of professional services. Plaintiffs argue that providing
for the care and custody of a person’s personal property is not “professional
negligence” so the one-year statute of limitations does not apply.[5]
Defendant replies that the negligent loss of Priscilla’s personal property
occurred within Defendant’s rendering of professional services to her. 
 
A claim for negligence must typically be filed within two
years. (CCP § 335.1.) However, a claim for injury to personal property must be
filed within three years. (CCP § 338.) A claim for injury against a health care
provider based upon such person’s alleged professional negligence must be filed
within three years after the date or injury or one year after the plaintiff
discovers, or through the use of reasonable diligence should have discovered,
the injury, whichever occurs first. (CCP § 340.5.) “Professional negligence” requires
that the “act or omission is the proximate cause of a personal injury or
wrongful death . . . .” (Id. at subd.
(2).) 
 
Here, Plaintiffs allege two negligent acts by Defendant: (1)
failure to provide the minimum level of care necessary to prevent Priscilla
from developing significant bed sores, and (2) losing Priscilla’s replacement
teeth. (FAC ¶¶ 21, 22, 1.2, 1.3.) 
 
The court agrees with Defendant that the claim for
negligence resulting in significant bed sores is time-barred. First, the FAC
alleges that Priscilla stayed at Valley Palms until December 7, 2020. (FAC ¶
19.) The court is hard-pressed to infer that Priscilla (or Nicholas or Michael)
would not have noticed “significant bedsores” at the time of discharge. The FAC
does not otherwise allege facts supporting delayed discovery and Plaintiffs did
not so argue in their opposition. Second, the FAC directly alleges that the
significant bedsores were a result of failure to provide minimum level of care
at a health care treatment facility by health care treatment professionals.
(FAC ¶ 21.) As such, those claims would be time-barred by the one-year statute
of limitations. 
 
However, the court is not persuaded by Defendant’s claim
that safekeeping Priscilla’s teeth related to her care. Additionally, the FAC
does not allege Priscilla suffered a physical injury “proximately caused” by
Defendant’s safekeeping (and then losing) her teeth. Since the court may not
split a cause of action, Plaintiffs have sufficiently pleaded facts supporting
a negligence cause of action. (Fire Ins.
Exchange v. Superior Court (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 446, 452.)
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ the Court OVERRULES Defendant’s
demurrer to the First Cause of Action for being time-barred.
 
ii.                 
Sufficient
Facts
Defendant contends that Plaintiffs failed to plead a duty
owed to each of the Plaintiffs and failed to plead proximate cause of the
alleged wrongs and resultant harm to Plaintiffs. Plaintiff does not directly
oppose this, but states they can easily cure any alleged defect by further
amendment.
 
A claim for negligence requires: (1) a legal duty owed to
plaintiffs to use due care; (2) breach of that duty; (3) causation; and (4)
damages. (County of Santa Clara v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 292, 318.)
 
Upon reviewing the FAC, Plaintiffs sufficiently alleged a
cause of action for negligence.[6]
First, Plaintiffs allege that Defendant “knowingly took possession of Priscilla
Di Berardino’s personal belongings, including without limitation, her set of
replacement teeth for safekeeping, and agreed to take possession of such
personal property for safekeeping pending the release of Priscilla Di
Berardino.” (FAC ¶ 20.) Second, Defendant breached that duty by losing
Priscilla’s replacement teeth. (FAC ¶ 21.) Third, Priscilla was actually and
proximately harmed because Defendant lost her replacement teeth. (FAC ¶¶ 21,
1.3.) Fourth, Plaintiffs incurred at least $30,000.00 in damages as a result.
(FAC ¶1.3.)
 
Accordingly, the court OVERRULES Defendant’s demurrer to
the First Cause of Action. 
 
Second Cause of
Action – Breach of Bailment
 
i.                   
Statute
of Limitations
Defendant contends that this claim fails because Plaintiffs
improperly rename a professional negligence claim to a breach of bailment
claim. Plaintiffs refer to their argument in the first cause of action. 
 
The statute of limitations period for breach of bailment is
three years. (CCP § 338; see H. Russell
Taylor’s Fire Prevention Service, Inc. v. Coca Cola Bottling Corp. (1979)
99 Cal.App.3d 711, 725.) 
 
The court incorporates the same analysis and conclusion as
the first cause of action.
 
Accordingly, the court OVERRULES Defendant’s demurrer to
the Second Cause of Action for being time-barred.
 
ii.                 
Sufficient
Facts
Defendant contends that Plaintiffs failed to allege an
interest in Priscilla’s property, does not allege a bailment contract entered
with Plaintiffs, and does not sufficiently allege how they were harmed by the
loss or damage of Priscilla’s personal property. Plaintiffs argue,
conclusorily, that they sufficiently plead this cause of action and could
easily correct any perceived defect via amendment. 
 
In an action for breach of bailment contract, the bailor
must prove that the agreement is a bailment contract, the property was
deposited with the bailee, a demand was made for the property, and the bailee
failed to return the property. (Needelman
v. DeWolf Realty Co., Inc. (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 750, 763 n. 6 [citing Gebert v. Yank (1985) 172 Cal.App.3d
544, 551-552.]) A bailment may be an express or implied contract. (H.S. Crocker Co. v. McFaddin (1957) 148
Cal.App.2d 639, 643.) A bailee’s duties must be voluntary assumed. (Id. at p. 644.) 
 
Upon reviewing the FAC, Plaintiffs did not sufficiently
allege a cause of action for breach of bailment. First, Plaintiffs failed to
allege that they demanded return of Priscilla’s property. Second, Plaintiffs hint
to an agreement but do not sufficiently state the parties created a bailment
contract. (See FAC ¶ 20.)
 
Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS Defendant’s demurrer to
the Second Cause of Action with leave to amend.
 
Third Cause of
Action – Conversion
 
i.                   
Statute
of Limitations
Defendant incorporates the same arguments for the first
cause of action. Plaintiffs refer to their argument in the first cause of
action.
 
The statute of limitations period for breach of bailment is
three years. (CCP § 338.)
 
The court incorporates the same analysis and conclusion as
the first cause of action.
 
Accordingly, the court OVERRULES Defendant’s demurrer to
the Third Cause of Action for being time-barred.
 
ii.                 
Sufficient
Facts
Defendant contends that Plaintiffs failed to plead Defendant
intended to convert the goods ad to exercise wrongful ownership over them or to
prevent the owner from taking possession of their property because they allege
that Defendant lost the replacement teeth. Additionally, Defendant contends
that Plaintiffs did not sufficiently allege how an entity had the requisite
intent to commit an intentional tort. Plaintiffs argue that wrongful intent is
not necessary and that they alleged Defendant knowingly and intentionally
converted some or all of Priscilla’s property and failed and refused to return
said property.
 
The elements for a claim of conversion are: “(1) the
plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of the property; (2) the
defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of property right; and
(3) damages.” (IIG Wireless, Inc. v. Yi
(2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 630, 650; Berry v.
Frazier (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th 1258, 1271.) The defendant must assert
dominion or control over the property, interfering in a way inconsistent with
the plaintiff’s rights. (Simonian v.
Patterson (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 773, 781-782.) The only intent required is
the intent to do the act constituting the conversion. (Mendoza v. Rast Produce Co., Inc. (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1395,
1405.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff failed to sufficiently allege a cause of
action for conversion. Specifically, the FAC has no facts that Defendant
asserted dominion or control over the property, interfering in a way
inconsistent with the plaintiff’s rights. The FAC also does not allege that
Defendant intended to do the act constituting conversion. (FAC ¶ 20 [alleging
Defendant took possession for safekeeping.]) Indeed, the FAC alleges that
Defendant lost the replacement teeth. (FAC ¶ 21.)
 
Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS Defendant’s demurrer to
the Third Cause of Action with leave to amend.
 
Fourth Cause of
Action – Unfair Business Practices
 
i.                   
Statute
of Limitations
Defendant provides the same argument as the first cause of
action. Plaintiffs refer to their argument in the first cause of action.
 
The statute of limitations for a UCL claim by a private
plaintiff is four years. (Bus. & Prof. Code § 17208; People v. Overstock.Com, Inc. (2017) 12 Cal.App.5th 1064, 1078.)
 
The court incorporates the same analysis and conclusion as
the first cause of action.
 
Accordingly, the court OVERRULES Defendant’s demurrer to
the Fourth Cause of Action for being time-barred.
 
ii.                 
Sufficient
Facts
Defendant contends that Plaintiffs failed to allege the
specific unfair business practice at issue and that Plaintiffs vaguely refer to
loans that appear unrelated to Defendant. Plaintiffs seek leave to amend.
 
California Business and Professions Code section 17200
prohibits “any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice.” (Bus.
& Prof. Code § 17200; see Clark v.
Superior Court (2010) 50 Cal.4th 605, 610.) A business practice is unfair
when it offends an established public policy or when the practice is immoral,
unethical, oppressive, unscrupulous, or substantially injurious to
consumers." (Community Assisting
Recovery, Inc. v. Aegis Security Ins. Co. (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 886, 894.)
A business practice is unlawful if it violates another law. (Berryman v. Merit Property Management, Inc.
(2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 1544, 1554.) A business practice is fraudulent if
“members of the public are likely to be deceived." (See Wang v. Massey Chevrolet (2002) 97 Cal. App. 4th 856, 871.) “A
plaintiff alleging unfair business practices . . . must state with reasonable
particularity the facts supporting the statutory elements of the violation.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 619.) 
 
Here, a review of the Complaint indicates that Plaintiff did
not sufficiently plead facts that Moving Defendants violated Business &
Professions Code section 17200. Notably, Plaintiff does not identify what the
unlawful practices were. (FAC ¶¶ 4.4.) 
 
Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS Defendant’s demurrer to
the Fourth Cause of Action with leave to amend.
 
Fifth Cause of
Action – Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
i.                   
Failure
to Identify Type of Emotional Distress
Defendant contends that Plaintiffs failed to identify
whether they are pursuing a claim for Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress (IIED) or Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress (NIED). Plaintiffs
withdraw this cause of action.
 
Accordingly, the court accepts Plaintiffs’ representation
that they withdraw this cause of action and OVERRULES the demurrer to the fifth
cause of action as moot.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.Demurrer is SUSTAINED in its
entirety as to Plaintiffs Nicholas J. Di Berardino and Michael Di Berardino
individually with 20 days  leave to
amend;
2.Demurrer is OVERRULED in its
entirety as to statute of limitations grounds;
3.Demurrer is OVERRULED as to the
First Cause of Action;
4.Demurrer is SUSTAINED as to the
Second, Third, and Fourth Causes of Action with 20 days leave to amend;
5.Demurrer is OVERRULED as moot as
to the Fifth Cause of Action due to Plaintiffs’ withdrawal of that cause of
action.
 
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              February 21, 2024                   __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


