  Case Number:  23STCV27439    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  45 County
of Los Angeles
 



 
BAIRD
  A. BROWN, an individual and as sole owner of BAIRD BROWN, a Professional Law
  Corporation, and ANN BROWN,
 
                             Plaintiffs,
 
                              vs.
DONALD
  G. NORRIS, an individual, DONALD G. NORRIS, a Law Corporation, MICHELLE PAK,
  an individual, TAURIN ROBINSON, an individual, and DOES 1 through 10,
  inclusive,
 
                              Defendants.
______________________________________
 
AND RELATED
  CROSS-ACTION
 


Case No.:  23STCV27439
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:  11/08/23
Cross-Complaint
  Filed:   01/12/24
Cross-Complaint
  Filed: 02/05/24
Trial
  Date:  None set



 
Hearing
date:  August 16, 2024
Moving
Party:  Defendant Donald G. Norris, an individual
Responding
Party:  Plaintiff Baird A. Brown
Motions
to Compel Further Responses to Request for Admissions (Set One) and Special
Interrogatories (Set One)        
The Court
considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
            The
motions are GRANTED. Plaintiff Baird
A. Brown is ordered to provide verified code-compliant, objection-free
supplemental responses to Request for Admissions (Set One) Nos., Request for
Genuineness of Documents (Set One) No. 4, and Special Interrogatories (Set One)
Nos. within 30 days of this order. 
            The
request for sanctions is also GRANTED in the amount of $1,248.00,
payable within 30 days of this order. 
 
Background
            On
November 8, 2023, plaintiffs Baird A. Brown, an individual and as sole owner of
Baird Brown, a Professional Corporation, and Ann Brown (“Plaintiffs”) filed a
Complaint against defendants Donald G. Norris, an individual; Donald G. Norris,
a Law Corporation (“Norris Defendants”); Michelle Pak (“Pak”), an individual; and
Taurin Robinson (“Robinson”), an individual (collectively, “Defendants”), and
DOES 1 through 10, inclusive, alleging causes of action for (1) Elder Financial
Abuse – CA Welf. & Inst. Code § 15600 et seq; (2) Theft & Conversion –
CA Penal Code § 496(c); (3) Unfair Competition – CA Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200
et seq; (4) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; and (5) Conspiracy.
            The
Complaint alleges in pertinent part as follows. Pak, Mr. Brown’s former office
manager and Robinson, Mr. Brown’s former legal assistant conspired with Norris
Defendants to transfer Mr. Brown’s clients and his practice to Norris
Defendants. (Compl., ¶¶12-14.) Furthermore, defendants conspired to divert Mr.
Brown’s legal fees and breached ethical responsibilities to timely sent two of
Mr. Brown’s clients shares of their settlement funds. (Id. at ¶17.)
            On
January 12, 2024, Norris Defendants filed a Cross-Complaint against Plaintiffs;
Andrew M. White, an individual; Jonathan N. White, an individual
(“Cross-Defendants”), and ROES 1-10, inclusive, alleging causes of action
for  (1) Conversion; (2) Violation of CA
Penal Code § 502; (3) Unfair Practices Act – CA Bus. & Prof. Code §17200 et
seq; (4) Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage; and (5) Breach of
Fiduciary Duty.
            On
February 5, 2024, Pak filed a Cross-Complaint against Plaintiffs; Andrew M.
White, an individual; Jonathan N. White, an individual (“Cross-Defendants”),
and ROES 1-10, inclusive, alleging causes of action for (1) Breach of Contract;
(2) Money Had and Received; (3) Common Count - Open Book Account; (4) Common
Count - Account Stated; (5) Conversion; (6) Unauthorized Access to Computer
Files and Documents (Violation of CA Penal Code § 502); (7) Violation of the
Unfair Practices Act – CA Bus. & Prof. Code §17200 et seq; (8) Battery; (9)
Assault; (10) Sexual Battery; (11) Sexual Harassment in Violation of FEHA,
Gov’t Code 12940, et seq; (12) Failure to Prevent Sexual Harassment in
Violation of FEHA, Gov’t Code Sec. 12940(k); (13) Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress; and (14) Violations of the Elder And Dependent Adult Civil
Protection Act) (Wel. & Inst. § 15600, et seq.).
            On
May 23, 2024, Defendant/Cross-Complainant Donald G. Norris (“Norris”) filed the
instant motions to compel further responses from plaintiff Baird A. Brown (“Mr.
Brown”) to (1) Request for Admissions and Genuineness of Documents (Set One)
and (2) Special Interrogatories (Set One). Mr. Brown filed oppositions to the
motions on August 5, 2024. Norris filed his replies on August 9, 2024. 
 
Legal
Standard
            Request
for Admissions
Where responses
to requests for admissions have been served but requesting party believes that
they are deficient because the answers are evasive or incomplete or because an
objection is without merit, that party may move for an order compelling a
further response. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (a).) 
            
Special
Interrogatories 
Where answers to
requests for interrogatories have been served but requesting party believes
that they are deficient because the answers are evasive or incomplete or
because an objection is without merit, that party may move for an order
compelling a further response. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a).) 
The motion must
be made within 45 days after service of the verified response or any
supplemental verified response. (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 2033.290, subd. (c); Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.300, subd. (c).)
Finally, California
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345 requires that all motions or responses involving
further discovery contain a separate statement with the text of each request,
the response, and a statement of factual and legal reasons for compelling
further responses. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345, subd. (a)(3)).¿
 
Meet and Confer 
The motion must
be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration in compliance with Code of Civil
Procedure Section 2016.040. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (b); Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (b).)
Norris advances
the declaration of his counsel of record, Seungjai Oh, attesting to meet and
confer made prior to the filing of the instant motions. Attorney Oh sent a meet
and confer letter on April 29, 2024. (Oh Decl., ¶10, Ex. 15.) On May 3, 2024,
Plaintiffs’ counsel, Jonathan White, requested an extension to respond to the
meet and confer and Norris’ deadline to file motions. (Id. at ¶11, Ex.
16.) Attorney White sent a response to the meet and confer letter refusing to
amend and provide code-complaint responses. (Id. at ¶13, Ex. 18.)
Thus, Norris
sufficiently met and conferred in compliance with Code of Civil Procedure
Section 2016.040. 
 
 
Discussion
            Request for Admissions (Set One)
Norris moves to compel further responses from Mr. Brown to Request for
Admissions (Set One) Nos. 44, 45, 46, 47, 66, 67, 68, and 69 and Request for
Genuineness of Documents (Set One) No. 4.
 
The
Request for Admissions are stated as follows:
REQUEST FOR ADMISSION NO. 44: Admit that, in 2023, YOU were in possession of
case files of clients represented by NORRIS.
REQUEST FOR ADMISSION NO. 45: Admit that, in 2023, YOU were in possession of
case files of clients represented by NORRIS LAW.
REQUEST FOR ADMISSION NO. 46: Admit that YOU are currently in possession of case
files of clients represented by NORRIS.
REQUEST FOR ADMISSION NO. 47: Admit that YOU are currently in possession of case
files of clients represented by NORRIS LAW.
REQUEST FOR ADMISSION NO. 66: Admit that, at any time between October 2023 and
the present, YOU accessed computers containing case files of clients
represented by NORRIS.
REQUEST FOR ADMISSION NO. 67: Admit that, at any time between October 2023 and
the present, YOU accessed computers containing case files of clients
represented by NORRIS Law.
REQUEST FOR ADMISSION NO. 68: Admit that, at any time between October 2023 and
the present, YOU made copies (physical or electronic) of case files of clients
represented by NORRIS.
REQUEST FOR ADMISSION NO. 69: Admit that, at any time between October 2023 and
the present, YOU made copies (physical or electronic) of case files of clients
represented by NORRIS LAW.
In response to each of these Request for Admissions, Mr. Brown states “Plaintiff
incorporates herein his General Statement and Objections. Plaintiff further
object to this Request for Admission on the basis that it is impermissibly and
deliberately vague, ambiguous, and unintelligible, particularly in its use of
the phrase “case files of clients represented by NORRIS [or NORRIS LAW].”
“[N]either ambiguity nor burden are of themselves sufficient grounds
for denying the right to discovery in
toto, although
either may, if present in sufficient degree, constitute an abuse of the
discovery process which can and should be limited or eliminated under the
court's discretionary power to make any order consistent with justice.” (Cembrook v. Superior Court In and
For City and County of San Francisco (1961) 56 Cal.2d 423, 428.) “If [the court] finds some requests too
ambiguous to allow intelligent reply, it may sustain objection to them or, more
consistently with justice, it may order such questions to be rephrased.” (Id. at 430.)
The Court finds that Norris’ instant request for admissions set forth
above are not vague, ambiguous, or unintelligible such that Mr. Brown cannot
provide an intelligent response. These requests ask Mr. Brown to admit or deny
whether he is in possession of and/or was in possession of case files for
clients represented by Norris and Norris Law both of which are separate
defendants in this action; whether Mr. Brown made accessed computers containing
these client case files, and whether Mr. Brown made copies of these case files.
Furthermore, these requests are limited to the year 2023 and even October 2023
to be specific. Lastly, to the extent that Mr. Brown contends he does not have
sufficient knowledge or information to admit or deny these requests, he must
response in accordance with Code of Civil Procedure Section 2033.220,
subdivision (c). 
Thus, Mr. Brown must be compelled to provide further responses to
Request for Admissions (Set One) Nos. 44, 45, 46, 47, 66, 67, 68, and 69 that
are code-compliant. 
 
The
Request for Genuineness of Documents are stated as follows:
REQUEST FOR GENUINENESS OF DOCUMENTS, SET NO. 4: Admit that the genuineness of the April 24, 2020
email from dnorrislaw@gmail.com to bairdbrownlaw@gmail.com; cc’ing
brownlaw@pacbell.net, michelle16@gmail.com; containing file attachments:
“Notice to Client – April 24.docx,” “April 30 Notice to Clients.docx,” and
“Updated_FiledCases_Consolidated.xlsx;” attached hereto as Exhibit D.
In response to this request for genuineness of documents, Mr. Brown
answered “Plaintiff incorporates herein his General Statement and Objections.
Subject to and without waiving the foregoing objections and limitations,
Plaintiff responds: Neither admit nor deny.”
The Court finds that Mr. Brown’s response is non-responsive and evasive.
Code of Civil Procedure Section 2033.220 requires an answer in response to
request for admission and genuineness of documents be either (1) an admission
that the matter involved in the requests is true; (2) a denial that the matter
involved in the requests is true; or (3) specific that after a reasonable
inquiry, the responding party lacks sufficient knowledge or information to
admit or deny the matter involved in the request. (Code Civ. Proc., 2033.220,
subd. (a)-(c).) As set forth above, Mr. Brown’s response fails to comply with
Civil Procedure Section 2033.220. 
Thus, Mr. Brown must
be compelled to provide further response to Request for Genuineness of
Documents (Set One) No. 4 that is code-compliant. 
 
Special Interrogatories (Set One)
Norris also
moves to compel further responses from
Mr. Brown to Special Interrogatories (Set One) Nos. 34, 35, 36, and 37. The
special interrogatories are stated as follows. 
SPECIAL
INTERROGATORY NO. 34: IDENTIFY ALL PERSONS who accessed
case files of clients represented by NORRIS (from October 2023 to the present).
SPECIAL
INTERROGATORY NO. 35: IDENTIFY ALL PERSONS who accessed
case files of clients represented by NORRIS LAW (from October 2023 to the
present).
SPECIAL
INTERROGATORY NO. 36: IDENTIFY ALL PERSONS who accessed
computers containing case files of clients represented by NORRIS (from October
2023 to the present).
SPECIAL
INTERROGATORY NO. 37: IDENTIFY ALL PERSONS who accessed
computers containing case files of clients represented by NORRIS LAW (from
October 2023 to the present).
            In
response to each of these interrogatories, Mr. Brown stated “Plaintiff
incorporates his Preliminary Statement and General Objections as if set forth
fully herein. Plaintiff further objects to this Interrogatory on the grounds
that it seeks information that is not relevant to the issues in this action and
is not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
Plaintiff further objects to the Interrogatory to the extent that it calls for
the disclosure of information protected by the attorney-client privilege, the
attorney work product doctrine, and/or any other legally cognizable privileged
against disclosure. Plaintiff further objects to this Interrogatory on the
basis that it is impermissibly and deliberately vague, ambiguous, and
unintelligible, particularly in its use of the phrase “case files of clients
represented by NORRIS [or NORRIS LAW].”
            “Each
answer in a response to interrogatories shall be as complete and
straightforward as the information reasonably available to the responding party
permits.” (Code Civ Proc. § 2030.220.) “If an objection is made to an
interrogatory or to a part of an interrogatory, the specific ground for the
objection shall be set forth clearly in the response. If an objection is based
on a claim of privilege, the particular privilege invoked shall be clearly
stated.” (Code Civ Proc. § 2030.240, subd. (b).)  
            The
Court finds that Norris’ interrogatories are relevant to this action because
Norris alleges that Mr. Brown engaged in conversion, interference with
prospective economic advantage, and breach of fiduciary. The interrogatories as
written seem intended to elicit information as it relates to those claims.
Moreover, the interrogatories are not vague or ambiguous such that Mr. Brown
cannot answer them intelligently. In fact, these interrogatories ask Mr. Brown
to merely identify the persons who from October 2023 to present had accessed to
Norris and Norris Law client case files and accessed computers with these case
files. Finally, Mr. Brown makes no arguments in his opposition to support the
claim of privilege invoked nor has he produced a privilege log so the Court
could determine whether such information is subject to attorney-client
privilege or attorney-work product. 
            Thus,
Mr. Brown must be compelled to provide further
responses to Special Interrogatories (Set One) Nos. 34, 35, 36, and 37 that are
code-compliant.
 
 
 
Request for
Monetary Sanctions 
The court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel a further response to request for admissions and
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (d); Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (d).)
Here, Attorney
Oh seeks $6,240.00 for a total of 20.8 hours spent on drafting 10 motions to
compel further, 10 separate statements, 10 proposed orders, 1 declaration,
compiling exhibits, notice of lodging, lodged exhibit, finalizing all
documents, drafting 10 reply papers, and attending the hearing on the motion at
an hourly rate of $300.00. The amount requested is reasonable provided the
amount of time expended and in relation to the fee charged. Furthermore, Mr.
Brown fails to provide any substantial justification or other circumstances
that would make imposing sanctions unjust. However, given that the present
motions before this court are the Request for Admissions (Set One) and Special
Interrogatories (Set One), the Court will impose sanctions apportioned to these
two only. 
Thus, the Court
will impose $1,248.00 against Plaintiff Baird A. Brown. 
 
            It
is so ordered.
 
Dated: August 16, 2024
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the
Superior Court
 