 Case Number:  23STCP00500    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



WALTER PEARCE 
        
  vs.
 
GARDENA RETIREMENT CENTER, INC. dba GARDENA
  RETIREMENT CENTER 
  


 Case
  No.:  23STCP00500   
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 4, 2024




 
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further is GRANTED IN PART, with the narrowed scope set forth
below. Defendant is sanctioned, jointly and severally with counsel, $1,050
payable within 30 days.
 
On 2/21/2023,
Walter Pearce (Plaintiff) filed suit against Gardena Retirement Center, Inc.
dba Gardena Retirement Center (Defendant), alleging: (1) dependent adult
abuse/neglect; and (2) negligence. 
 
            Now,
Plaintiff moves to compel compliance with RFPs. 
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff
seeks to compel further responses to RFP Nos. 12-15, 21, 23, 38, 46, 53, and
58.
 
After review,
the Court agrees and disagrees in part. 
 
As for RFP
Nos. 12-15, these requests concern Department of Social Services (DSS) Records.
While relevant, the requests seek all citations, statements of
deficiencies, and surveys regardless of their connection to this action. This
action concerns Defendant’s alleged failure to maintain controls over the water
temperature. Accordingly, these requests are limited to citations, statements
of deficiencies, and surveys which concern excessively hot water. Moreover, the
scope of January 1, 2020 to present is too broad. The Court limits the scope to
July 1, 2021 to present. 
 
As for RFP
No. 21, this request seeks all documents which reflect the census (patient
population) of the facility during Plaintiff’s admission. Plaintiff argues good
cause exists to compel its production because this is relevant to determine
whether Defendant was adequately staffed to meet resident needs according to
state rules and regulations. The Court agrees. 
 
As for RFP
No. 23, this request seeks work schedules/and or assignment sheets “for all
personnel who provided direct care to residents at YOUR FACILITY, to include
Registered Nurses, Med Techs, Licensed Vocational Nurses, Certified Nursing
Assistants, and caregivers who worked at YOUR FACILITY for each shift during
PLAINTIFF’s ADMISSION.” The Court agrees this is relevant to Plaintiff’s
contention that the Defendant’s facility was so understaffed so as to cause
injury to the Plaintiff and as to violate applicable staffing regulations. 
 
As for RFP
No. 38, this RFP requests that Defendant: “Produce all DOCUMENTS that reflect
the acuity of the general resident population at YOUR FACILITY during
PLAINTIFF’s ADMISSION. Specifically, this request does not intend for the
responding party defendant to produce the specific identification and personal
information of any individuals, residents at YOUR FACILITY. The specific
identifiable materials and documents requested may be redacted as to any
individual patient identity issues.” While the number of acute patients does
not tend to show whether or not the staff specifically neglected Plaintiff
here, the manner in which staffing, or sufficiency of staffing, is determined
in a health facility is by looking at the facility as a whole, not by
individual, and then utilizing their education, training and experience to
decide the “acuity” (need of care) level of the resident census (number) as a
whole and then determine the necessary levels of staffing. As such, this
request is necessary and relevant to the analysis here of whether or not the
facility was adequately staffed. However, the scope of the request is clearly
overbroad, in that the acuity of the general resident population can be
determined through a narrower scope of documents. The parties are to meet and
confer to determine an appropriate scope for this otherwise relevant request. 
 
As for RFP
No. 46, this request seeks Defendant’s bylaws which were in effect during
Plaintiff’s admission. The corporate Defendant’s bylaws will help Plaintiff
identify those individuals and/or entities who had authority to control the
daily operations of the facility, which is relevant to the legal issues of
duty, breach, and ratification, as well as to the identity of other potential unnamed
individuals or entities responsible for the harm suffered by Plaintiff.
Accordingly, good cause exists to compel production of this request. 
 
As for RFP
No. 53, this request seeks production of “any and all “Unusual Occurrence
Reports” YOU submitted to Community Care Licensing from January 1, 2021 through
February 28, 2022. Specifically, this request does not intend for the
responding party defendant to produce the specific identification and personal
information of any individuals, residents at YOUR FACILITY. The specific
identifiable materials and documents requested may be redacted as to any
individual patient identity issues.” The Court limits this request to reports
concerning excessively hot water. 
 
Finally, as
for RFP No. 58, this request seeks production of “all of YOUR Incident Reports
regarding resident accidents which occurred at YOUR FACILITY from January 1,
2021 through February 26, 2022.” Again, this request is limited to reports
concerning excessively hot water. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to compel further is granted in part, with the
narrowed scope set forth above. Defendant is sanctioned, jointly and severally
with counsel, $1,050. ($350 x 3 hr.) 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  January   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 
 