  Case Number:  22STCV27044    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



LEVON NSHANYAN, et al. 
  
        
  vs.
 
ANTON IVCHENKO, et al.

  


 Case
  No.:  22STCV27044
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: January 4, 2024



 
 
Defendants’
counsels’ Niv V. Davidovich’s and R. Michael Segal’s motion to be relieved as
counsel is GRANTED, effective upon filing proof of service of the court’s order
(MC-053). 
 
Legal Standard
 
Motions to withdraw are routinely
granted if made in the proper form and presented with proper notice. The court
may issue an order allowing an attorney to withdraw from representation, after
notice to the client.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 284(2).) 
 
Discussion 
 
Niv V.
Davidovich and R. Michael Segal bring the instant motion for relief as
counsel as to Defendants/Cross-Complainants Avton Ivchenko and Da Vinci Motors,
LLC.  
 
The following
documents are properly submitted: Civil Form MC-051 “Notice of Motion and
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel,” Civil Form MC-052 “Declaration in Support of
Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel,” and Civil Form MC-053 “Order
Granting Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel.” 
 
            The
motion is GRANTED.
 
It is
so ordered.
 
 
Dated:  January   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 
            
 
 

 
 
 