 Case Number:  21STCV14726    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2023    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



SCOT HICKEY,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
THE RAND CORPORATION and DOES 1-10,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          21STCV14726
 Hearing Date:   9/26/23
 Trial Date:        10/31/23
  [To Be Continued]
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant The Rand
  Corporation’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff Scot Hickey to Attend an Independent
  Mental Examination.



 
Background
Pleadings
Plaintiff Scot Hickey sues
Defendant The Rand Corporation (Rand Corp.) and Does 1-10 pursuant to an April
19, 2021 Complaint alleging claims of (1) Fair Employment and Housing Act
(FEHA) Disability Discrimination, (2) FEHA Failure to Provide Reasonable
Accommodation, (3) FEHA Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process, (4) California
Family Rights Act (CFRA) Retaliation, (5) FEHA Retaliation, (6) FEHA Age
Discrimination, (7) FEHA Failure to Prevent Retaliation, and (8) Labor Code
Retaliation (Lab. Code, § 1102.5).
Motion Before the Court
On August 15, 2023, Rand Corp.’s e-mailed
Plaintiff’s counsel a request for an Independent Psychological Examination
(Independent Mental Examination or IME) and the Curriculum Vitae of the
proposed examiner, Amyanne C. Freeburg, Psy.D, MSCP, ABPP (Dr. Freeburg). The
letter requested a response from Plaintiff’s counsel and Plaintiff by August
18, 2023 and invited Plaintiff’s counsel to a call to discuss the examination with
Rand Corp.’s counsel. The IME was requested for September 7 or 8, 2023, though
Rand Corp.’s papers indicate that other dates were also provided, such as
September 15, 2023.
Having received no response, on
August 21, 2023, Rand Corp.’s followed up with Plaintiff’s counsel, to which
Plaintiff’s counsel responded by indicating an unwillingness to stipulate to an
IME. Rand Corp.’s again followed up, seeking clarification as to the reason for
the unwillingness to submit Plaintiff to an IME and whether Plaintiff was
instead seeking only garden-variety damages. Plaintiff’s counsel did not
respond.
As a result, on August 29, 2023,
Defendant Rand Corp. moved to compel an IME of Plaintiff Hickey. The motion was
set for hearing on September 26, 2023.
On August 31, 2023, Rand Corp. made
an ex parte application to advance the hearing on its motion.
That same day, Plaintiff Hickey
opposed the ex parte application.
On September 1, 2023, the Court
denied the ex parte application, finding there was no good cause to advance the
hearing.
On September 12, 2023, Plaintiff
Hickey opposed Rand Corp.’s motion.
On September 18, 2023, Rand Corp.
replied to the opposition.
Rand Corp.’s motion is now before
the Court.
 
Motion to Compel Independent Mental Examination

Meet and Confer
A motion to compel a mental
examination must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (b).)
Here, the Court finds that Rand
Corp. sufficiently demonstrates its meet and confer efforts. (Mot., Sanders
Decl., ¶¶ 3, 8, Exs. B, G.)
Legal Standard
Any party can make a motion for a
physical or mental examination. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (a); see,
e.g., Doyle v. Superior Court (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1878, 1880-1881
[plaintiff in defamation case made motion for mental examination of defendant
cross-complainant because defendant claimed mental anguish from plaintiff’s
sexual harassment].) A mental examination must be sought through a motion
rather than, for example, simply through a demand. (See Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.310, subd. (a); Carpenter v. Superior Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th
249, 259.)
The motion must:
(1) Identify the examinee and show
that the person is a party to the action, an agent of any party, or a natural
person in the custody or under the legal control of a party (see Code Civ.,
Proc., § 2032.020, subd. (a));
(2) Show how the examinee’s
physical or mental condition has been placed in controversy in the case (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2032.020, subd. (a));
(3) Establish good cause for the
physical or mental examination, where good cause involves providing specific
facts justifying discovery and show that the inquiry is relevant to the subject
matter of the case or reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd. (a); Vinson v.
Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840, fn. 6 [general rule and defining
good cause]; see Code Civ. Proc., 2032.320, subd. (e)(1) [must show good cause
to conduct examination more than 75 miles from the examinee’s residence]; Carpenter
v. Superior Court, supra, 141 Cal.App.4th at p. 259 [good cause
required for a mental examination]); Greyhound Corp. v. Superior Court
(1961) [good-cause requirement serves as a barrier to excessive and unwarranted
intrusions]);
(4) Provide the details for the
examination, including the time, place, and manner of examination, condition,
scope, and nature thereof, and examiner (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd.
(b)); and
(5) State the examining party’s
willingness to pay for the examinee’s travel reasonable expenses and costs
where the motion requests a place for the examination that is more than 75
miles from the examinee’s residence (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd. (e)(2)).
The motion need not include a
separate statement. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345, subd. (a)(6).)
Order Granting Order Compelling
Examination: GRANTED, With Conditions.
I. Statutory
Requirements
The Court first finds that Rand
Corp.’s motion meets the statutory requirements to compel an IME of Plaintiff
Scot Hickey.
First, the motion identifies
Plaintiff as the examinee which shows that he is a party to the action. (See
Mot., Notice, p. 2, ¶ 1.)
Second, the motion establishes that
Plaintiff has put his mental condition at issue. Rand Corp. refers to
Plaintiff’s Complaint and discovery responses as showing he is seeking
emotional distress damages, which puts his mental condition at issue. (See Complaint,
¶¶ 15, 38, 44, 52, 59, 66, 72, 80, Prayer for Relief ¶ 1; Mot., Sanders Decl.,
Ex. E, Response to Interrogatory Nos. 204.2, 212.2 [claiming Rand Corp.’s
conduct caused Plaintiff to experience emotional distress]; Mot., Sanders
Decl., Ex. F, Response to Interrogatory No. 10 [plaintiff seeks noneconomic
damages relating to emotional distress]; see also Mot., p. 10 [referring to
Complaint and Exhibits discussed above].)
Third, the Court finds there is
good cause to compel the IME. As argued by Rand Corp., “there is good cause to
permit RAND to have a psychologist question Plaintiff about the nature, extent,
and cause of his ongoing emotional distress damages.” (Mot., p. 10.) This is
because “Plaintiff has put his mental condition/disability at issue” and “[a]
trained psychologist is the only person that RAND can call to opine on these
issues.” (Mot., p. 10.) Moreover, the motion may not be denied pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 2032.320, subdivision (b) because Plaintiff has not
stipulated to only seeking garden-variety damages. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.320, subd. (b) [“If a party stipulates as provided in subdivision (c), the
court shall not order a mental examination of a person for whose personal
injuries a recovery is being sought except on a showing of exceptional
circumstances”]; see Mot., Sanders Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. G [Plaintiff’s counsel
refuses to stipulate to garden-variety damages].)
To the extent Plaintiff makes
arguments opposing a determination of good cause, those arguments are misplaced
or addressed elsewhere. The type of tests to be conducted involve conditions of
the IME, not whether the information sought through the IME is relevant to the
action at hand, which is the actual test for good cause. (See Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2032.320, subd. (a); Vinson v. Superior Court, supra, 43 Cal.3d
at p. 840, fn. 6 [general rule and defining good cause]; see also Opp’n, pp. 3-4.)
As to the scope of the IME, the Court addresses the limitations on scope below.
Fourth, the details for the
examination—including the time, place, and manner of examination, condition,
scope, and nature thereof, and examiner—were included in the IME request by
Rand Corp. (See Mot., Sanders Decl., Ex. A, pp. 1-3 [IME to take place on Sep.
7 or 8, 2023, at Los Angeles address, by Dr. Freeburg, with the manner,
condition, scope, and nature of examination specified in the request].)
Last, the Court notes that while
the motion and IME request did not specify Rand Corp.’s willingness to pay for
Plaintiff’s reasonable expenses and costs related to travel to and from the
deposition, none of the papers before the Court indicate that the place for the
examination is more than 75 miles from Plaintiff’s residence, thus undercutting
the need to meet this requirement.
Rand. Corp.’s motion is thus
GRANTED, subject to the below conditions.
II. Conditions of IME
Plaintiff Hickey argues that “[t]he
scope of Defendant’s proposed defense mental exam is also objectionable and
excessive.” (Mot., p. 4.) The Court agrees in part with both parties.
The Court rules as follows as to
the conditions to be followed for the IME, which were originally proposed by
Plaintiff Hickey in his opposition. (See Opp’n, pp. 4-6.)
A.
(1) “The examination will be
recorded by Plaintiff by audio technology as allowed by Code of Civil Procedure
section 2032.530.”
The parties have agreed to this condition,
which is reasonable. This condition is therefore imposed.
B.
(2) “No defense counsel or any
representative thereof (other than the defense mental examiner) may attend the
examination.”
The parties have agreed to this
condition, which is reasonable. The condition is therefore imposed.
C.
(3) “The examination must be
conducted only by Dr. Amyanne Freeburg and the order must specify the address,
date, and time of the examination.”
The parties have agreed to this
condition, which is reasonable. The condition is therefore imposed.
D.
(4) “Plaintiff’s counsel must be
provided (without further request) all medical records, all correspondence
between defense counsel and Dr. Amyanne Freeburg (or any person associated with
their respective offices) regarding Plaintiff, raw data, bills, notes, audio
recording(s), narrative reports, interpretative reports, and a copy of a
detailed written report setting out the history, examinations, findings
(including the results of all tests made), diagnoses, prognoses, and
conclusions of the examiner within 5 days of the defense mental examination.”
The Court finds this limitation
unreasonable. First, Plaintiff does not provide any authority—statutory or
otherwise—to support this limitation. Second, the five-day condition is
unreasonable as to time. Third, the condition that Plaintiff’s counsel is
provided the requested information “without further request” is without cited authority
and unreasonable.
The Court accepts (1) Rand Corp.’s
30-day window for producing a final written report, (2) Rand Corp. providing to
Plaintiff raw data, test results, and narrative and interpretive reports
pursuant to a tailored protective order to be stipulated by the parties, and
(3) Rand Corp. providing to Plaintiff all medical records, correspondence,
bills, notes, and audio recordings at the time the final report is complete.
(See Reply, p. 8.)
E.
(5) “Only the Minnesota Multiphasic
Personality Inventory – 3rd Edition (also known as the ‘MMPI-3’) and/or the
Personality Assessment Inventory (also known as the ‘PAI’) may be performed.”
The Court finds this limitation
unreasonable. The expert dictates the examination to be undertaken. The
examiner may conduct examinations that are reasonably related to emotional
distress and related damages and may only act within the bounds of approved
psychological examinations within such restrictions. However, the examiner is
ordered to limit questions to a reasonable time frame, i.e., from the time
Plaintiff’s injuries arose but not before.
F.
(6) “Plaintiff will be permitted to
give an oral history of his psychiatric injuries or emotional distress.
Plaintiff will not orally relate medical history unrelated to the areas of
injuries claimed in this lawsuit.”
Rand Corp. agrees to this
limitation in part. (Reply, p. 9.) The Court limits the examination to the time
frame in which Plaintiff’s injuries arose. The examiner may question Plaintiff
into his emotional distress, including from other sources, and including medical
history to the extent it may have contributed to his alleged emotional distress,
mental disabilities, and/or psychiatric injuries, but only for the period of
time starting from the time Plaintiff’s injuries arose.
G.
(7) “No questioning regarding
Plaintiff’s legal contentions or theories may be asked. The examination must be
solely limited to Plaintiff’s psychiatric injuries or emotional distress.”
The Court finds this limitation
reasonable in part. The Court imposes this condition but adds that Dr. Freeburg
is permitted to ask Plaintiff about his knowledge of and facts related to his
mental health history, psychiatric injuries, mental disabilities, and emotional
distress, but only for the above time period, and only as to the time periods
on or after Plaintiff suffered emotional distress as claimed in this action.
H.
(8) “The examination must be
limited to conditions in controversy. Code of Civ. Procedure section
2032.020(a).”
Having clarified the above two
points (se Reply, pp. 9-10), the Court finds this condition reasonable. The
condition is therefore imposed.
I.
(9) “Plaintiff will not answer
questions regarding his sexual history or sexual activity.”
Per Rand Corp.’s position on reply,
the Court finds this limitation reasonable so long as Plaintiff Hickey is not
claiming damages related to loss of consortium. (Reply, p. 10.)
J.
(10) “Plaintiff is not to be
questioned concerning his communications with any current or former attorneys,
including Jeanette E. Laba.”
The parties have agreed to this
condition, which is reasonable. The condition is therefore imposed.
K.
(11) “Plaintiff will not sign any paperwork
or fill out patient information forms of any type whatsoever at the examiner’s
office including but not limited to ‘new patient’ forms or consent forms,
insurance forms, identification forms, authorization(s) for records,
arbitration forms, and/or waivers and releases, and Plaintiff will not be asked
to do so by the defense mental examiner (or any person associated with her
office or employer).”
Rand Corp. agrees to this condition
provided that Plaintiff is required to fill out paperwork associated with the
tests performed at his mental exam. (Reply, p. 10.)
The Court finds Rand Corp.’s
modification makes this limitation reasonable. The condition is therefore
imposed, as modified by Rand Corp.’s responsive condition.
L.
(12) “The examining doctor must be
provided with a copy of the Court’s order and sign her consent to the terms.”
The parties have agreed to this
condition, which is reasonable. The condition is therefore imposed.
M.
(13) “The total time for the
examination and testing must not exceed six hours. If any period of time
exceeding thirty minutes elapses when Plaintiff is not being examined, then
Plaintiff will be free to leave, and the examination will be considered
completed.”
The Court finds that a seven-hour
examination, as proposed by Rand Corp.’s reply, is reasonable. (See Reply, p.
10.) To avoid any confusion or argument, and subject to the parties agreeing in
writing otherwise, the Court orders that the parties schedule the examination
around a one-hour lunch break, which will not be included in the time computation
of the examination.
The Court however finds the
“30-minute” limitation unreasonable. IMEs can require breaks to fill out or
review examination documents. Instead, the Court simply orders that any breaks
taken during the seven-hour examination (not including lunch) will count toward
the seven-hour total.
N.
(14) “Plaintiff will not assume
financial responsibility for any of the medical billings arising as a result of
the defense mental exam.”
The parties have agreed to this
condition, which is reasonable. The condition is therefore imposed.
O.
(15) “Any information acquired or
learned in violation of the Court’s order will not be admissible in evidence
for any reason. The Court may, upon motion at trial, strike, preclude, or limit
any testimony of the examiner in the event it finds the examiner was not
informed of the Court’s order or willfully violated the terms of the Court’s
order in any manner.”
The Court finds this limitation
reasonable and also adopts Rand Corp.’s responsive condition of permitting Rand
Corp. to oppose any motion brought by Plaintiff to exclude any evidence that he
claims was learned in violation of the Court’s order.
III.
The Court GRANTS Rand Corp.’s
motion, subject to the limitations in Section II. The parties are ordered to immediately
meet and confer and if possible, reach agreement as to the date and time of the
examination; if they cannot agree, the Court will hear argument as to the date
and make an order at oral argument.  
Conclusion
Defendant The Rand Corporation’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff Scot Hickey
to Attend an Independent Mental Examination is GRANTED per the
conditions/limitations discussed in Sections II and III above.