  Case Number:  23STCV02390    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Friday, September 13, 2023
CASE NUMBER:                   23STCV02390
CASE NAME:                        Immigrant Rights Defense Co. v. Sonia I. Zaldivar
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Z Legal Services,
Inc. 
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiff Immigrant Rights Defense
Council, LLC
TRIAL DATE:                        Not set. 
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Motion for Summary
Judgment, or Summary Adjudication
OPPOSITION:                        09 August 2024
REPLY:                                  24
May 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         On its own motion, the court reconsiders the
November 15, 2023 Order denying Z Legal’s motion to quash and grants the
motion. The motion for summary judgment is denied as moot. Plaintiff is given
leave to amend the SAC to add a new defendant. 
 

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
This is a dispute arising in connection
with Defendant Sonia I. Zaldivar (“Zaldivar”) operating as an Immigration
Consultant in California. Plaintiff, Immigrant Rights Defense Council, LLC
(“Plaintiff”) alleges that Defendant has operated as an Immigration Consultant
not in conformity with the Immigration Consultants Act of California (“ICA”). 
Plaintiff brings this claim for an
injunction on behalf of the general public as authorized by Business and
Professions Code § 22446.5(a).¿ Plaintiff asserts that Defendant has violated
multiple provisions of ICA and, as such, Plaintiff is entitled
to obtain an injunction on behalf of the general public.¿¿
On June 14, 2023, Plaintiff
filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) alleging a single cause of
action for injunctive relief for violation of the ICA. Plaintiff
filed a Doe amendment, adding Z Legal Services Inc. (“Z Legal”) as a defendant.

 
Defendant Z Legal now moves for summary
judgment, or in the alternative, for summary adjudication. Plaintiff opposes
the Motion. The matter is now before the court. 
 
motion for
summary judgment
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
The purpose of a motion for
summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism
to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite
their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”¿ (Aguilar
v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843 (Aguilar).) “Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) Summary
adjudication may be granted as to one or more causes of action within an
action, or one or more claims for damages. (CCP, § 437c(f).)¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
 
Defeating summary judgment
requires only a single disputed material fact. (See CCP, § 437c(c) [a motion
for summary judgment “shall be granted if all the papers submitted show that
there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving
party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law”] [italics added].) Thus,
any disputed material fact means the court must deny the motion – the court has
no discretion to grant summary judgment. (Zavala v. Arce (1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 915, 925, fn. 8; Saldana v. Globe-Weis Systems Co. (1991)
233 Cal.App.3d 1505, 1511-1512.)¿¿¿
 
II.        Request for Judicial Notice
 
The court may take judicial notice
of “official acts of the legislative, executive, and judicial departments of
the United States and of any state of the United States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any
court of this state or (2) any court of record of the United States or of any
state of the United States,” and “[f]acts and propositions that are not
reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate
determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.” (Evid.
Code, § 452, subds. (c), (d), and (h).) “Taking judicial notice of a
document is not the same as accepting the truth of its contents or accepting a
particular interpretation of its meaning.” (Joslin v. H.A.S. Ins. Brokerage (1986)
184 Cal.App.3d 369, 374.)
 
Defendant Z Legal Requests
Judicial Notice of the Following: 
 
Exhibit A: A true and
correct copy of the summons.
 
Exhibit B: A true and
correct copy of the original complaint filed on February 3, 2023. 
 
Exhibit C: A true and
correct copy of Amendment to Complaint. 
 
Exhibit D: A true and
correct copy of the Summons identifying Z Legal Services, Inc, as a corporation
and DOE 1. 
 
Exhibit E: A true and
correct copy of the Articles of Incorporation for Defendant Z Legal Services,
Inc. 
 
Exhibit F: A true and
correct copy of the second amended complaint. 
 
Exhibit G: A true and
correct copy of the Court’s ruling on Defendant Sonia I. Zaldivar’s Demurrer
and Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint. 
 
Exhibit H: A true and
correct copy of the Immigration Consultants Act. 
 
Exhibit I, J, and K: A true
and correct copy of legislative history. 
 
Exhibit L: A true and
correct copy of the public portal printout of this action. 
 
Exhibit M: Plaintiff’s
Opposition to Defendant’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons: 5:27-28; 6:1;
Declaration of Sebastian Medvei; 7: Paragraph Four.
 
Exhibit N: Hearing
Transcript on Defendant’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons, on November 3,
2023. 
 
Exhibit O: Hearing
Transcript on Defendant’s Demurrer and Motion to Strike First Amended Complaint.

 
Exhibit P: Ruling on
Demurrer and Motion to Strike the Second Amended Complaint. 
 
Defendant Z
Legal’s request for judicial notice is granted as to Exhibits A to L and L to
P. The request for judicial notice as to Exhibit M is denied as to the
Declaration of Sebastian Medvei, but is otherwise granted. (See Lockley v.
Law Office of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91
Cal.App.4th 875, 882 [“Courts may not take judicial notice of allegations in
affidavits, declarations and probation reports in court records because such
matters are reasonably subject to dispute and therefore require formal proof.”].)

 
III.      Plaintiff’s Objections
 
As Defendant Z
Legal’s objections are not material to the court’s disposition of this Motion, the
court declines to rule upon them. All objections not ruled upon are preserved
for appeal. (CCP 
§ 437c(q).)
 
IV.       Discussion
 
Plaintiff filed this action on February 3, 2023, against Zaldivar and
Does 1 to 100 for violation of ICA. Plaintiff filed the operative SAC on June
14, 2023. 
 
Plaintiff asserts that after Zaldivar was served with a copy of
the original Complaint on July 9, 2023, she incorporated Defendant Z Legal.
(See Proof of Service filed. 07/10/2023; Defendants’ Compendium of Evidence
(“DCOE”) Ex. E.) On July 10, 2023, Plaintiff filed an Amendment to Complaint
naming Defendant Z Legal as Doe 1. (Amendment filed 07/10/2023.) Defendant Z
Legal moved to quash the service of the SAC on the ground that the Doe
amendment was improper. On November 15, 2023, the court denied Z Legal’s motion
to quash. 
 
Defendant Z Legal now moves for
summary judgment as to the SAC or summary adjudication of the first cause of
action on the four following grounds as asserted in the Separate Statement: 
1)    
Issue 1: Plaintiff Cannot Prevail on Its SAC
Because Defendant Z Legal Cannot Be Doe 1;
2)    
Issue 2: Plaintiff Cannot Prevail on Its First
Cause of Action for Statutory Violations of the ICA against Defendant Z Legal;
3)    
Issue 3: Plaintiff Cannot Prevail on Its SAC
Because Defendant Z Leal is Not Subject to the ICA;
4)    
Issue 4: Plaintiff cannot Prevail on Its SAC
Because Defendant Z Legal Could not have Committed the Acts Attributed to Doe 1
which Occurred Before Defendant’s Formation.
 
A.        Plaintiff’s Improper Doe Amendment
Defendant
Z Legal argues that because it did not exist prior to the filing of the SAC, it
cannot be Doe 1 based on the allegations in the pleadings. The SAC alleges that
Plaintiff does not know the true names and capacities of the Doe Defendants but
“Plaintiff will amend the complaint to show the true names and capacities of
such DOES when they have been ascertained.” (SAC, ¶ 3.) “Plaintiff is informed
and believes, and thereon alleges, that each of the fictitiously named
defendants is responsible in some manner for the actions and occurrences herein
alleged[.]” (SAC, ¶ 3.) Doe 1 is alleged to be an agent of the other
Defendants. (SAC, ¶ 4.) Defendants were immigration consultants, “identified
herein as DOES 1 through 5, employed at the business” who filed to “submit a
background check to the Secretary of State.” (SAC, ¶ 20(f).) 
 
At
issue is whether Z Legal was properly identified as Doe 1 or if Plaintiff was
required to file an amended complaint identifying Z Legal as a new Defendant
rather than a Doe Defendant. “Code of Civil Procedure section 474 allows a
plaintiff to name fictitious defendants, or ‘Does.’ ” (Fireman's Fund Ins.
Co. v. Sparks Construction, Inc. (2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 1135, 1143.)
“Provided these requirements are satisfied, the amendment is deemed to ‘relate[
] back’ to the filing date of the original complaint for purposes of the
statute of limitations. [Citation.]” (Ibid.) “Failure to comply with
Code of Civil Procedure section 474 does not prevent a plaintiff from filing an
amendment adding a new defendant; however, it does prevent the amendment from
relating back.” (Id., at p. 1144.) 
 
The
court agrees that it is not possible for Z Legal to be Doe 1 because its
liability would relate back to the filing of the original Complaint filed on
February 3, 2023, and Z Legal was not created until February 9, 2023. (DCOE Ex.
E.) Accordingly, any alleged violations of ICA by Z Legal could only occur
after February 9, 2023.  “[T]he relevant
inquiry when the plaintiff seeks to substitute a real defendant for one sued
fictitiously is what facts the plaintiff actually knew at the time the
original complaint was filed.” (General Motors Corp. v. Superior Court
(1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 580, 588 [italics original].) As Z Legal did not exist
until February 9, 2023, Plaintiff could not know that Doe 1 was “in the
business of acting as immigration consultants.” (SAC, ¶ 7.) 
As
Defendant Z Legal did not exist at the time the original Complaint was filed,
there is no factual basis for Plaintiff to believe Z Legal was liable for
violating ICA.  Once Plaintiff learned
about Z Legal’s creation and had reason to believe it was violating ICA,
Plaintiff should have amended the pleadings to add Z Legal as the new
defendant, rather than as a Doe defendant. 
 
As the Doe Amendment was
improper, the court should have granted Z Legal’s motion to quash. “Improper
service of a defendant under section 474 may be attacked by a motion to
quash. [Citations.]  ‘If the terms of ...
section 474 have not been complied with, the purported defendant has not been
named as such in the complaint. A service upon one not named in a complaint
does not confer jurisdiction to proceed upon the complaint against him, and a
motion to quash is proper.’ [Citation.]” (McClatchy v. Coblentz, Patch,
Duffy & Bass, LLP (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 368, 375 [italics original].) 
Therefore, the court
reconsiders the November 15, 2023 Order denying Z Legal’s Motion to Quash. 
            B.        Reconsideration
of the November 15, 2023 Order
 
“[A]
trial judge may reconsider and correct erroneous orders independent of the
statutory limitations imposed on reconsideration motions.” (Thomson v.
Canyon (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 594, 603.) “If a court believes one of its
prior interim orders was erroneous, it should be able to correct that error no
matter how it came to acquire that belief.” (Le Francois v. Goel (2005)
35 Cal.4th 1094, 1108.) “In our view, the California Constitution requires that
in any case in which a trial judge reconsiders an erroneous order, and enters a
new order that is substantively correct, the resulting ruling must be affirmed
regardless of any procedural error committed along the way.” (In re Marriage
of Barthold (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 1301, 1313.)
 
Because
the court now finds that Plaintiff’s Doe amendment was improper, the court
reconsiders its November 15, 2023 Order denying Z Legal’s Motion to Quash and
grants the motion. 
 
Consequently,
the court lacks jurisdiction over Defendant Z Legal and its motion for summary
judgment is moot. 
 
The
court notes that should Defendant Z Legal wish to proceed on the merits of its
motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative, for summary adjudication,
it failed to establish that there were no triable issues of material fact. 
 
            C.        Plaintiff May Amend the SAC to Add Z Legal As a New Defendant

 
A
complaint can be amended to add new facts which occurred after the filing of
the initial complaint. (Honig v. Financial Corp. of America (1992) 6
Cal.App.4th 960, 966.) A new defendant may be added provided that the statute
of limitations has not passed. (McGee Street Productions v. Workers' Comp.
Appeals Bd. (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 717, 724.) 
 
Plaintiff
may amend the SAC to add Z Legal as a new defendant because the statue to
limitations for ICA violations has not passed. 
 
In
its motion for summary judgment, Defendant Z Legal asserts that Plaintiff’s ICA
claims are barred because Plaintiff is not an “aggrieved party” capable of discovering
ICA violations under Bus. & Prof. Code § 22448: 
 
Any civil action to enforce any
cause of action pursuant to this chapter shall be commenced within four years
after the cause of action has accrued. The cause of action is not to be deemed
to have accrued until the discovery, by the aggrieved party, of the
facts constituting the violation.
 
(Bus.
& Prof. Code, § 22448 [bold added].) In other words, because Plaintiff is
not an aggrieved party, it cannot discover Z Legal’s violations of ICA.
 
Defendant Z Legal relies on Immigrant Rights Defense Council,
LLC v. Hudson Ins. Co. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th in support of its proposition
that Plaintiff is not an aggrieved party because “the Legislature has
consistently declared that the bond funds are designated for those who have
been actually injured and suffered damages from ICA violations committed by an
immigration consultant.” (Id., at pp. 265-366.) “In short, the class of
people the ICA is designed to protect is the population most vulnerable to
fraud and deceit by unscrupulous consultants—their customers. The Legislature's
decision to limit the ICA bond funds to victim compensation is therefore
consistent with the ICA's purpose in protecting—and making whole—the vulnerable
population it was designed to protect.” (Id., at p. 317.) 
 
However, Immigrant Rights pertained to whether the plaintiff
was an aggrieved party entitled to recover damages from bond or deposit under
Bus. & Prof. Code § 22447[1]. Bus. & Prof. Code
section 22446.5(b) expressly states:
 
Any other party who, upon
information and belief, claims a violation of this chapter has been committed
by an immigration consultant may bring a civil action for injunctive relief on
behalf of the general public and, upon prevailing, shall recover reasonable
attorneys' fees and costs.
 
Therefore,
because Plaintiff is “[a]ny other party” who believes ICA has been violated,
Plaintiff can discover ICA violations even if Plaintiff is not an aggrieved
party who has been injured and suffered damages. Bus. & Prof. Code §
22446.5(a) That section specifically applies to “[a] person claiming to be aggrieved
by a violation of this chapter by an immigration consultant may bring a civil
action for injunctive relief or damages, or both” whereas section 22446.5(b) is
reserved for “[a]ny other party who, upon information and belief, claims a
violation of this chapter has been committed by an immigration consultant may
bring a civil action for injunctive relief on behalf of the general
public [.]” (Id., [italics added].) 
 
The
fact that Plaintiff is not an aggrieved party, does not mean that Plaintiff
cannot discover ICA violations. To find otherwise and accept Z Legal’s interpretation,
would produce absurd consequences because it would make Section 22446.5
subdivisions (b) and (c) effectively void by depriving “[a]ny other party” and
“[t]he Attorney General, a district attorney, or a city attorney” of standing
to bring an ICA action. When interpreting a statute, “‘[w]e do not examine that
language in isolation, but in the context of the statutory framework as a whole
in order to determine its scope and purpose and to harmonize the various parts
of the enactment. If the language is clear, courts must generally follow its
plain meaning unless a literal interpretation would result in absurd
consequences the Legislature did not intend.’ ” (Meda v. Autozone, Inc.
(2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 366, 378 [internal citation and quotation marks
omitted].)
 
Because
Z Legal was incorporated on February 3, 2023, the four-year statute of limitations
articulated in Bus. & Prof. Code § 22448 has not yet run, and Plaintiff may
amend the SAC to add Z Legal as a new defendant. 
 
            D.        Defendant Z Legal’s Motion for Summary
Judgment Fails 
 
Assuming, arguendo, that Defendant Z Legal accepts the court’s
jurisdiction and wishes to proceed on the merits of its Motion, Defendant Z
Legal fails to establish there are no triable issues of material fact and it is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law. Defendant Z Legal failed to cite any
authority supporting the proposition that when the Legislature uses the word
“person” and fails to provide a definition, the presumption is that person
refers only to natural persons and not artificial persons. (See Wells v.
One2One Learning Foundation (2006) 39 Cal.4th 1164, 1198.) 
 
Furthermore, Defendant Z Legal failed to establish that it cannot
be held vicariously liable for ICA violations. 
Under the doctrine of respondeat superior, an employer may be held
vicariously liable for torts committed by an employee within the scope of
employment.” (Mary M. v. City of Los Angeles (1991) 54 Cal.3d 202, 208.)
“A corporation can act only
through its employees; thus, an employee acting on behalf of the employer
cannot be acting in concert with the employer, as there is in law only a single
actor.” (Fiol v. Doellstedt (1996)
50 Cal.App.4th 1318, 1326.)
 
Here, a business entity acting as an employer can be “any person”
who “for compensation” engages “in the business or act[s] in the capacity of an
immigration consultant[.]” (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 22440.) Moreover, a
business entity can be a person who engages in the business or acts in the
capacity of an immigration consultant when it gives advice or assistance
related to:
 
(1) Completing a form provided
by a federal or state agency but not advising a person as to their answers on
those forms.
(2) Translating a person's
answers to questions posed in those forms.
(3) Securing for a person
supporting documents, such as birth certificates, which may be necessary to
complete those forms.
(4) Submitting completed forms
on a person's behalf and at their request to the United States Citizenship and
Immigration Services.
(5) Making referrals to persons
who could undertake legal representation activities for a person in an
immigration matter.
(Bus.
& Prof. Code, § 22441(a).)
 
Therefore,
Defendant Z Legal fails to show that it is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law because a business entity can be held vicariously liable for ICA
violations. 
 
Conclusion
 
On its own motion, the court reconsiders the
November 15, 2023 Order denying Z Legal’s motion to quash and grants the
motion. The motion for summary judgment is denied as moot. Plaintiff is given
leave to amend the SAC to add a new defendant. 


