 Case Number:  23STCV02819    Hearing Date:   March 4, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of
California
County
of Los Angeles
 



 
OLGA
  SOLOVEY, et al.,
 
                             Plaintiffs,
 
                              vs.
RUST
  MOVIE PRODUCTIONS, LLC, et al.,
 
                              Defendants.


Case No.:  23STCV02819
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:  02/09/23
Trial
  Date:  None set



 
Hearing
date:  March 4, 2024
Moving
Party:  Defendants PDQ Arm and Prop, LLC
and Seth Kenney
Responding
Party:  Plaintiffs Olga Solovey, Anatoli
Androsovych, and Svetlana Zemko
Motion
to Quash Service of Summons       
The Court
considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
            The
motion is GRANTED.
 
Background
            On
February 9, 2023, Plaintiffs Olga Solovey, Anatoli Androsovych, and Svetlana
Zemko (“Plaintiffs”) filed the Complaint against Defendants Rust Movie
Productions, LLC; Alexander R. Baldwin III; El Dorado Pictures, Inc.; Ryan
Donnell Smith; Langley Allen Cheney; Thomasville Pictures, LLC; Anjul Nigam;
Brittany House Pictures; Hannah Gutierrez-Reed; Sarah Zachry; Seth Kenney; PDQ
Arm and Prop, LLC; David Halls; Nathan Klingher; Ryan Winterstern; Short Porch
Pictures, LLC; Matthew Delpiano; Calvary Media, Inc.; Gabrielle Pickel; 3rd
Shift Media, LLC; Katherine Walters; Chris M.B. Sharp; Jennifer Lamb; Emily
Salveson; Streamline Global (“Defendants”); and DOES 1 through 100, inclusive
for: (1) Battery; (2) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; (3)
Negligence; and (4) Loss of Consortium. 
            On
August 28, 2023, Defendants PDQ Arm and Prop, LLC and Seth Kenney filed this
instant Motion to Quash Service of Summons. On February 20, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed an opposition. On February 26, 2024, Defendants PDQ Arm and Prop, LLC and
Seth Kenney filed a reply. 
 
Legal
Standard
Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure Section 418.10, “A defendant, on or before the last day of
his or her time to plead or within any further time that the court may for good
cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion…to quash service of summons
on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 418.10(a)(1).) 
            When
a defendant moves to quash service of the summons and complaint, the plaintiff
has “the burden of proving the facts that did give the court jurisdiction, that
is the facts requisite to an effective service.” (Coulston v. Cooper (1966)
245 Cal.App.2d 866, 868.) The plaintiff must establish the facts of
jurisdiction by a preponderance of the evidence. (Aquila, Inc. v. Sup. Ct.
(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 556, 568.) “When a nonresident defendant challenges
personal jurisdiction the burden shifts to the plaintiff to demonstrate by a
preponderance of the evidence that all necessary jurisdictional criteria are
met. [Citation.] This burden must be met by competent evidence in affidavits
and authenticated documentary evidence. An unverified complaint may not be
considered as an affidavit supplying necessary facts.” (Jewish Defense
Organization, Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 1045,
1054-55.) 
 
Discussion
            Defendants
PDQ Arm and Prop, LLC and Seth Kenney move for an order quashing service of
summons and complaint in this actions, and dismissing the complaint against
them due to lack of personal jurisdiction. 
Defendant PDQ
Arm and Prop, LLC argues it is a limited liability company registered in
Arizona and New Mexico, with its principal business in Arizona. Furthermore,
Defendant PDQ Arm and Prop, LLC contends it is not incorporated in California
and has not filed to qualify to do business in California. Moreover, Defendant
PDQ Arm and Prop, LLC asserts it has no local agent for service of process
located in California and does not employ any individuals located in
California. Defendant PDQ Arm and Prop, LLC also contends it does not maintain
or solicit business through any office, agency, or representative in
California. Additionally, Defendant PDQ Arm and Prop, LLC contends it does not
market its services to or in California or any state. Defendant PDQ Arm and
Prop, LLC asserts its limited contacts with California include occasional
participation in volunteer opportunities since 2017, a less than one week film
production in 2018 unrelated to Defendant Rust Movie Productions, LLC, and a
single business transaction over three years ago involving a film project in
California unrelated to the Rust production. As such, Defendant PDQ Arm
and Prop, LLC argues its contacts with California are not continuous and
systematic sufficient to render it essentially at home for purposes of general
jurisdiction.
Similarly,
Defendant Seth Kenney argues  California
has no general jurisdiction over him. Defendant Seth Kenney contends he is a
domiciliary of Arizona, currently lives in Arizona, and has for at least five
years, with the intent to remain in Arizona indefinitely. Defendant Seth Kenney
further contends Arizona is where he works and maintains most of his personal
property. Moreover, Defendant Seth Kenney argues his ownership of a vacation
home, sailboat, and vehicle registered to a family member’s address within the
State of California unrelated to Plaintiffs’ complaint is not sufficient, on its
own, to establish general jurisdiction in this case. Defendant Seth Kenney also
argues his business is headquartered in Arizona and New Mexico and has had no
substantial, continuous, or systematic contact with California. In addition,
Defendant Seth Kenney contends he did not have any contact with California at
the time Plaintiffs’ alleged injuries occurred. 
            Likewise,
Defendants PDQ Arm and Prop, LLC and Seth Kenney argue California lacks
specific jurisdiction over either of them. Defendants PDQ Arm and Prop, LLC and
Seth Kenney contend Plaintiffs’ failed to allege how or when Defendants PDQ Arm
and Prop, LLC and Seth Kenney purportedly purposefully established contacts
with California. Specifically, Defendants PDQ Arm and Prop, LLC and Seth Kenney
assert there is not a single allegation contained in the complaint tying them
to California or showing that they have any contacts with California.
Defendants PDQ Arm and Prop, LLC and Seth Kenney further argue Plaintiffs’
claims are wholly unrelated to any limited and sporadic contacts Defendants PDQ
Arm and Prop, LLC and Seth Kenney may have had with California. Defendants PDQ
Arm and Prop, LLC and Seth Kenney contend there is no allegation in the
complaint that Defendants PDQ Arm and Prop, LLC and Seth Kenney’s purported
contact or forum activities with California relate to Plaintiffs’ alleged
injuries contained in the complaint. Defendants PDQ Arm and Prop, LLC and Seth
Kenney also contend Plaintiffs cannot establish their claims against Defendants
PDQ Arm and Prop, LLC and Seth Kenney arise out of any purported contact or
activity that they had or engaged in within the State of California. Lastly,
Defendants PDQ Arm and Prop, LLC and Seth Kenney argue assuming Plaintiff could
prove Defendants PDQ Arm and Prop, LLC and Seth Kenney’s purportedly
purposefully established contacts with California and their causes of action
arise out of or are related to Defendants PDQ Arm and Prop, LLC and Seth
Kenney’s contacts with California, exercising specific jurisdiction over them
would be unreasonable. Defendants PDQ Arm and Prop, LLC and Seth Kenney argue
(1) the burden on them in defending this case would be great because they are located
in Arizona and New Mexico; (2) New Mexico is where the underlying accident
occurred, Plaintiffs’ alleged injuries occurred, and Defendants PDQ Arm and
Prop, LLC and Seth Kenney are located; and (3) it is highly likely most of the
evidence and witnesses are located in New Mexico. 
In opposition,
Plaintiffs argue at all relevant times, Defendants PDQ Arm and Prop, LLC and
Seth Kenney maintained the necessary minimum contacts with California
sufficient enough for this Court to exercise jurisdiction over them. Plaintiffs
contend Defendants PDQ Arm and Prop, LLC and Seth Kenney, as interstate
suppliers of weapons and ammunition for film sets from Arizona into neighboring
California and New Mexico, have availed themselves over years of contacts
within California that are not random or fortuitous including providing arms
and ammunition for the October 2021 filming of Rust, which killed Halyna
Hutchins. Furthermore, Plaintiffs argue Defendant Seth Kenney maintained a home
in California despite their alleged temporariness, during the relevant time
period. Finally, Plaintiffs argue if the court is inclined to grant this
instant motion, the Court should order limited jurisdictional discovery and
stay this motion 90 days. 
            In
reply, Defendants PDQ Arm and Prop, LLC and Seth Kenney argue Plaintiffs have
presented no admissible, relevant evidence that establishes that this Court has
personal jurisdiction over Defendants PDQ Arm and Prop, LLC and Seth Kenney.
Defendants PDQ Arm and Prop, LLC and Seth Kenney further argue Plaintiffs do
not argue that their affiliations or business contacts are so continuous and
systematic as to render them at home in California. Defendants PDQ Arm and
Prop, LLC and Seth Kenney also contend Plaintiffs’ categorization of them as
interstate suppliers of weapons and ammunition is irrelevant here as the focus
is not on other states but rather on California. Defendant Seth Kenney also
argues he admits to owning a home in California that he rarely visits but
ownership of property in a forum state alone is not sufficient to establish
general jurisdiction. Moreover, Defendants PDQ Arm and Prop, LLC and Seth
Kenney argue there is no evidence that they have purposefully or intentionally
availed themselves of California such that they expected to be hauled into
court in California by Plaintiffs for their alleged injuries because Defendants
PDQ Arm and Prop, LLC and Seth Kenney at the time of the accident (1) did not
advertise its services in California; (2) did not employ employees in
California; and (3) did not conduct regular business in California. Rather
Defendants PDQ Arm and Prop, LLC and Seth Kenney argues their previous contacts
with California have been random, sporadic, and temporary. Additionally,
Defendants PDQ Arm and Prop, LLC and Seth Kenney contend Plaintiffs presented
no evidence that Defendants PDQ Arm and Prop, LLC and Seth Kenney’s isolated
contacts with California is related to the Rust production or
Plaintiffs’ claims in any way. Lastly, Defendants PDQ Arm and Prop, LLC and
Seth Kenney reiterate that the exercise of specific jurisdiction over them is
unreasonable. 
“Specific
jurisdiction exists if: (1) the defendant has purposefully availed itself of
forum benefits with respect to the matter in controversy; (2) the controversy
is related to or arises out of the defendant's contacts with the forum; and (3)
the assertion of jurisdiction would comport with fair play and substantial
justice.” (Sonora Diamond Corp. v. Sup. Ct. (2000) 83 Cal. App.4th 523,
536.)
To determine
whether general jurisdiction exists over a corporation, the inquiry is “whether
that corporation's affiliations with the State are so ‘continuous and
systematic’ as to render [it] essentially at home in the forum State.” (Daimler
AG v. Bauman (2014) 571 U.S. 117, 138-139.)
            The
Court finds that Plaintiffs have not proven by a preponderance of the evidence
that this Court has personal jurisdiction over Defendants PDQ Arm and Prop, LLC
and Seth Kenney. The matter in controversy is Plaintiffs’ injuries related to
the accidental shooting and death of Halyna Hutchins. Plaintiffs have not shown
how Defendants PDQ Arm and Prop, LLC and Seth Kenney purposefully availed
themselves to the benefits of California with respect to this matter. The
accident did not occur in California but in New Mexico. Furthermore, Plaintiffs
have not shown how the accident is related to or arises out of Defendants PDQ
Arm and Prop, LLC and Seth Kenney purported contacts with California. Although
Defendants PDQ Arm and Prop, LLC and Seth Kenney supplied arms and ammunition
for the set of Rust in October 2021, where the accident occurred, the arms
and ammunition were sent to New Mexico. As such, the controversy is related or
arises out of Defendants PDQ Arm and Prop, LLC and Seth Kenney’s contacts with
the State of New Mexico not California. 
Moreover, Plaintiffs argues that Defendant Seth Kenney’s vacation home
in California makes it reasonable to exercise specific personal jurisdiction
over him, which would not comport with fair play and substantial justice
because its suggests that anyone owning property in a non-domicile state could
be hauled into court in the non-domiciled state. Plaintiffs’ also fail to show
the Court has general jurisdiction over Defendants PDQ Arm and Prop, LLC and
Seth Kenney. Plaintiffs present evidence of Defendants PDQ Arm and Prop, LLC
and Seth Kenney doing consulting work in California from 2010-2015, which is
unrelated to the sales of arms and ammunition. Further, Plaintiffs only present
one instance where Defendants PDQ Arm and Prop, LLC and Seth Kenney supplied
arms and ammunition for a production in California, which was in July 2018.
These contacts are insufficient to render Defendants PDQ Arm and Prop, LLC and
Seth Kenney essentially at home in California. Lastly, Plaintiff has not
demonstrated that discovery they seek during the requested stay of this motion
would likely lead to evidence of facts establishing jurisdiction over
Defendants PDQ Arm and Prop, LLC and Seth Kenney and did not point to
particularized areas of inquiry that can likely establish disputed jurisdiction
to meet its burden.
            Therefore,
the motion to quash service of summons is GRANTED.
            
            It
is so ordered.
 
Dated: March 4, 2024
 
_______________________
ROLF M. TREU
 Judge of
the Superior Court