 Case Number:  23AHCV01417    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2025    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



VINCENT DEROSA, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
COSTCO
   WHOLESALE CORPORATION, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )
  )


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV01417
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER DEPOSITION TESTIMONY
   AND PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS BY COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION’S PERSON MOST
   QUALIFIED; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
January
   16, 2025




 


)


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On June 21, 2023, plaintiff Vincent
Derosa (“Plaintiff”) filed this personal injury action against defendant Costco
Wholesale Corporation (“Defendant”). Plaintiff alleges that on July 10, 2021,
he was shopping at Defendant’s store when he approached a pallet (“Pallet”)
which contained new motion detector lights (“Product”). (Compl., ¶ 12.)
Directly at the top of the Pallet was a plexiglass display with detailed
information regarding the Product. (Ibid.) Plaintiff alleges that as he
began placing boxes of the Product into his shopping cart, the display fell down
and hit him, causing him to fall to the floor and sustain severe injuries. (Id.,
¶ 13.)
On September 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed
this motion to compel further deposition testimony and production of documents
from Defendant’s Person Most Qualified (“PMQ”), Anthony Stout. 
          Defendant
filed an opposition brief and separate statement on January 8, 2025. Defendant
explains that the untimely filing was due to counsel’s calendaring mistake;
therefore, the Court accepts and considers the arguments made in Defendant’s
opposition papers. 
Plaintiff filed a reply brief on
January 9, 2025. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
If a deponent fails to answer a
deposition question or produce documents or things designated in the deposition
notice or subpoena, the examiner may file a motion to compel within 60 days
after the completion of the record of the deposition. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.480.) A motion to compel production of documents described in a deposition
notice must be accompanied by a showing of “good cause.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (b)(1).) 
III.       
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff moves to compel the
following: 
(1) the Incident Report;
(2) the “General Liability Form” and
“member first reports” relating to monthly safety meetings;
(4) “[a]n additional deposition to
answer questions regarding the documents that were unjustly withheld”; and
(5) an answer to a question regarding
the PMQ’s review of documents related to past complaints and injuries. 
First, Plaintiff argues that
Defendant’s PMQ, Mr. Stout, testified that he reviewed an incident report in
order to prepare for his deposition and Evidence Code section 771 requires
production of that incident report despite Defendant’s claims of privilege. It
is undisputed that the incident report was prepared by the manager on duty,
Chris McElroy. Defendant asserts that the report was prepared in anticipation
of litigation for its attorneys and submits the declaration of defense counsel,
Joseph Powers. Mr. Powers states that “[t]he confidential incident report at
issue is a document prepared by Costco during the course of normal business for
use by Costco’s attorneys.” It’s unclear how Mr. Powers has personal knowledge
of this information unless Mr. Powers instructed Costco to prepare those
documents. Therefore, Costco fails to meet its burden to show facts supporting
the conclusion that the report is privileged. 
The motion to compel with respect to
the incident report is GRANTED. Defendant must produce the incident report and
Mr. Stout for further questioning regarding the incident report. 
Next, Plaintiff argues that documents
relating to prior complaints, injuries, and lawsuits involving plexiglass
displays, pallets, or the Product, referred to as “general liability form
sheets” and “member first reports”, are discoverable because they are relevant
to the issue of notice and whether Defendant knew or should have known that the
Display posed a danger to members such as Plaintiff. Plaintiff argues that Mr.
Stout testified having reviewed these documents in preparation for his
deposition and that they are now discoverable. 
In a late-filed opposition, Defendant
argues that incidents involving other displays are not relevant. The Court does
not agree. Prior accidents may, when relevant, be admitted for the purpose of
proving notice if the circumstances of the accidents are the same or similar to
the one at issue in the case. (Simmons v. Southern Pac. Transportation Co.
(1976) 62 Cal.App.3d 341.) Defendant also argues that producing documents
relating to incidents involving these other displays would violate third-party
rights to privacy. However, the identity and other personal information of
these third parties could be redacted before production. Also, a protective
order is already in place in this action.
Nevertheless, the Court acknowledges
that Defendant objected to Plaintiff’s Category No. 1 requesting testimony about
prior incidents. (See Gordon Decl., Ex. F, p. 1.) Therefore, the testimony
provided by Mr. Stout, insofar as it relates to Category No. 1, is not binding
on Defendant because it is not within the scope of the topics that he was
produced to testify about. Even Plaintiff’s counsel acknowledged during the
deposition, that Defendant responded that no person would be produced for that
topic. Accordingly, the general liability form sheets and member first reports reviewed
by Mr. Stout to prepare for his deposition and refresh his recollection are
irrelevant.
Therefore, the motion to compel with
respect to the general liability forms, member first sheets, and further
questioning with respect to Mr. Stout’s review of these documents is DENIED. 
IV.       
CONCLUSION
Plaintiff’s motion is GRANTED in part.
Since Defendant was substantially justified in opposing this motion, no
sanctions shall be imposed. 
 
Dated
this 16th
day of January 2025
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 