  Case Number:  21STCV34515    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2025    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



MARK AIVAZIAN, et al., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
GENERAL
   MOTORS LLC, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 21STCV34515
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO BE ADMITTED PRO HAC VICE
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
January
   16, 2025



 
Deron L.
 Wade (“Applicant”) seeks admission to appear as counsel pro hac vice to represent defendants
 General Motors LLC and Community Chevrolet (collectively, “Defendants”)
in this action along with Tamara A. Bush, an active member of the State
Bar of California. (Declaration of Deron L.
 Wade, ¶¶ 1, 7.) Applicant is a resident of Texas
and is a member in good standing of the Texas
State Bar. (Wade Decl., ¶¶ 1-2.) Applicant is not a resident of California and
does not regularly engage in business in California. (Wade Decl., ¶ 5.) Applicant
has applied and appeared pro hac vice
in California State Court three times in the past two years. (Wade
Decl., ¶ 6.) 
The application complies with the
requirements of California Rules of Court, Rule 9.40, including serving notice
and required fees on the State Bar of California. The unopposed application is
GRANTED. It is ordered that Deron L. Wade be admitted to appear as
counsel pro hac vice for the purpose
of representing Defendants in this action. Applicant shall be subject
to all applicable rules of this Court.
 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 16th
day of January 2025
 




 


   




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 