 Case Number:  24STCV13259    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



MICHELLE
  SANTIAGO 
                           
         vs.
 
AMERICAN
  HONDA MOTOR COMPANY 
 


 Case No.: 24STCV13259  
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date: September 11, 2024



 
Defendant’s
demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH 15 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND. Accordingly, Defendant’s
motion to strike is MOOT.
 
            On
5/28/2024, Plaintiff Michelle Santiago (Plaintiff) filed suit against the
American Honda Motor Company, alleging: (1) violation of Civil Code section
1793.2, subdivision (d); (2) violation of Civil Code section 1793.2,
subdivision (b); (3) violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision
(a)(3), (4) breach of the implied warranty of merchantability; and (5)
fraudulent inducement—concealment.
 
            Now,
Defendant demurrers to the fifth cause of action. Defendant also moves to
strike portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff has failed to allege sufficient facts to state a claim
for fraudulent concealment. In particular, Defendant argues that the claim is
preempted by federal law, is barred by the statute of limitations, and is not
pled with the requisite specificity. 
 
            As
for the first contention, the Supremacy Clause of the U.S. Constitution provides
that “the Laws of the United States . . . shall be the supreme Law of the Land
. . ., any Thing in the Constitution or Laws of any State to the Contrary
notwithstanding.” (U.S. Const. art. VI, cl. 2.) In determining whether federal
law preempts state law, a court’s task is to discern congressional intent. (English
v. General Elec. Co. (1990) 496 U.S. 72, 78–79.) 
 
            Defendant
argues that California does not regulate the disclosure of information sought
by Plaintiff: 
 
California
has created a “Car Buyer’s Bill of Rights,” which generally speaking, affects
retail vehicle sales by requiring California-licensed car dealers to disclose
an itemized price list for financial items, such as warranties and insurance,
and provide buyers their credit score with an explanation of how it is used.
More specifically, it prohibits the advertisement of vehicles as “certified” if
they are disqualified for any of the enumerated reasons, such as the odometer
does not indicate the actual mileage of the vehicle, if the vehicle was
reacquired under state or federal warranty law, or if title was branded as a
lemon law buyback, manufacturer repurchase, salvage, junk, or similar
designation. Further, Cal. Vehicle Code section 11713.12 prescribes the
location and contents of the decal to be affixed to a vehicle reacquired by a
manufacturer pursuant to Civil Code section 1793.22. The Car Buyer Bill of
Rights does not regulate the disclosure of aggregate data pertaining to
consumer complaints, repair data, or internal pre-market research. 
 
            (Demurrer,
10: 15-11:1.) 
 
            Moreover,
Defendant argues that neither Cal. Vehicle Code sections 9950, 9951, or 9990 -
9992 regulate the disclosure of aggregate data pertaining to consumer
complaints, repair data, or internal pre-market research.  
 
            By
contrast, Defendant argues that National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
(NHTSA) is charged with the following responsibilities:
 
 the collection and analysis of highway and
motor vehicle safety data and related information (49 CFR 1.94(a));
establishing and enforcing safety standards and regulations for the manufacture
and importation of motor vehicles and motor vehicle equipment; conducting
research, development, and testing concerning motor vehicle safety, including
vehicle-to-vehicle and vehicle-to-infrastructure technologies and other new or
advanced vehicle technologies; and investigating safety-related defects and
noncompliance in motor vehicles and motor vehicle equipment and administering
related recalls (49 CFR § 1.94(b)); establishing requirements and carrying out
programs for passenger motor vehicle information, such as the New Car
Assessment Program; bumper standards for passenger motor vehicles; odometer
requirements; and passenger motor vehicle theft prevention standards (49 CFR §
1.94(d)).
 
            (Motion,
12:21-13:9.) 
 
In
furtherance of the above, and in compliance with obligations mandated by
Congress, NHTSA has developed a series of rules relating to these topics,
including specifically, Early Warning Reporting. Early Warning Reporting,
Foreign Defect Reporting, and Motor Vehicle and Equipment Recall Regulations:
78 Fed. Reg. 161, 51382. The Early Warning Reporting rule, establishes
categories of vehicle manufacturers by size, proscribes the reporting frequency,
information contained within the reports, organization of data, scope of
comparison data (past nine model years), and vehicle component categories1
subject to reporting requirements. (Id. at 51383 – 51384.) “These data
are referred to as aggregate data.” (Id. at 51384.) 
 
As such,
Defendant argues that NHTSA has expressly occupied the space of disclosure
obligations. Moreover, Defendant argues that “were a jury to find in
Plaintiff’s favor with respect to the concealment cause of action it would result
in ad hoc rulemaking which would directly conflict with the specific, clear,
and well-articulated rules and procedures developed by NHTSA. Regardless of the
precise basis for a jury’s finding of concealment, if a manufacturer wanted to
avoid committing what a jury previously determined to be fraud, it would
necessarily need to modify the method and/or substance of its disclosures.”
(15: 24-16:3.) 
 
While the
Court appreciates the substance of Defendant’s argument, fraudulent concealment
claims are regularly brought by Song-Beverly plaintiffs in California State
Courts. Defendant does not cite any case or persuasive legal authority wherein
it was concluded that defect disclosure claims like Plaintiff’s were actually found
to be preempted by the NHTSA. As such, the Court finds insufficient legal
authority to support Defendant’s argument at this time. 
 
As for the
second contention, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s claim is time-barred and
the Plaintiff has not alleged sufficient facts to show delayed discovery. The
Court agrees. Plaintiff alleges that she was unable to discover the facts
underlying her claims during the limitations period, and alleges that she was a
member of a class action related to her claims citing American Pipe &
Construction Co. v. Utah (1974) 414 U.S. 538, 552-556. However, before
applying American Pipe tolling to a California case, the court must
consider: (1) whether the class action “sufficiently put defendants on notice
of the substance and nature of the plaintiff’s claims,” and (2) whether tolling
would “serve to further economy and efficiency of litigation.” (Joly v. Eli
Lily & Co. (1988) 44 Cal.3d 1130, 1122.) Here, Plaintiff has not
alleged any supporting facts which could allow the Court to determine whether
or not the class action put Defendant on notice of “the substance and nature”
of this Plaintiff’s fraud and warranty claims.
 
Plaintiff
will be afforded leave to amend to allege facts which could show her claim is
not barred by the statute of limitations.
 
 If Plaintiff is able to, the Court notes that
it will likely conclude that Plaintiff has alleged sufficient facts to state a
claim. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant knew of the defective Sensing System in
the Subject Vehicle, and that it concealed this fact because it knew it would
sell more vehicles and would discourage Plaintiff from not purchasing the
Vehicle. (Complaint ¶¶ 68.) At the pleading stage, these allegations are
sufficient to state a claim for fraudulent concealment. While Defendant argues
that Plaintiff’s allegations as to knowledge and intent are conclusory and insufficient,
it would place a nearly insurmountable hurdle on plaintiffs if they were
required to allege specific facts to show things like knowledge and intent
without the benefit of discovery . This evidence is contemplated by the
discovery process. Rather, at the pleading stage, Plaintiff must only allege
facts which could reasonably show that Defendant possessed the requisite
knowledge, based on the available facts. 

 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer is sustained, with 15 days leave to amend.
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to strike is moot. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  September   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 