  Case Number:  19STCV18770    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  O Tentative
Ruling
 
CITY OF DIAMOND BAR’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES
TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET 1 FROM WEST COAST ARBORISTS &
FOR $1,645.00 IN SANCTIONS is GRANTED in part (i.e., as to RFPs 6 and 12,
which are modified to a 4 year time span and to neighboring cities) and DENIED
in part (i.e., as to RFPs 15 and 16, in their entirety). Monetary
sanctions are not imposed on either party. 
 
Background
 
This is a personal injury case. Plaintiffs LULIN YAN, JIN
YAN, XIAOYING GUO and Jason Zhang by and through his Guardian Ad Litem JIN YAN
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) allege the following against Defendants COUNTY OF
LOS ANGELES; CITY OF DIAMOND BAR (“City”) and MONTEFINO HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION
(“HOA”): On July 24, 2018, Plaintiffs were walking on the sidewalk when a tree
branch from fell on Plaintiff LULIN YAN. 
 
On May 30, 2019, Plaintiffs filed suit against Defendants
for: 
 
1. Dangerous Condition Of Public Property 
2. Premises Liability 
3. Negligence 
4. Negligent Infliction Of Emotional Distress (“NIED”)
 
On August 20, 2019, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”). 
 
On February 13, 2020, Plaintiffs filed an “Amendment to
Complaint,” wherein West Coast Arborists, Inc. (“WCA”) was substituted in for
Doe 1.
 
On May 12, 2020, City filed an “Amendment to
[Cross-]Complaint,” wherein WCA was substituted in for Roe 1. 
 
On May 15, 2020, HOA filed a cross-complaint, asserting
causes of action against WCA, City and Roes 1-20 for: Indemnity Contribution
Declaratory Relief.
 
On September 21, 2020, the court granted the HOA’s Motion
for Summary Judgment.
 
On October 14, 2021, judgment was entered in favor of WCA’s summary
judgment motion. 
 
On June 16, 2023, the court granted the City’s Motion for
Leave to File a Second Amended Cross-Complaint. 
 
On July 13, 2023, the court granted Motion of Defendant City
of Diamond Bar to Compel Responses to Supplemental Discovery from Plaintiff
Yan. 
 
On September 13, 2023, the parties attended an IDC.
 
On September 20, 2023, WCA filed an MSJ, with a hearing set
for 12/6/23.
 
On September 29, 2023, the City filed the instant motion. 
 
On October 10, 2023, WCA filed its opposition to the motion.

 
On October 18, 2023, the City filed its Reply. 

 
Legal Standard
 
If a party to whom a request
for production is directed fails to serve a response that is code complaint,
the propounding party may move for an order compelling further responses. (Code
of Civ. Proc., § 2031.310.) Depending on the type of objection served in
response to discovery, a CCP section 2013.240 specifies that “[T]he
response shall contain a statement of compliance, or a representation of
inability to comply with respect to the remainder of that item or category” or
“the response shall provide sufficient factual information for other parties to
evaluate the merits of that claim, including, if necessary, a privilege log.”
(Code of Civ. Proc., § 2031.310.) Once the moving party has established good
cause by a fact-specific showing of relevance, the burden shifts to the
opposing party to justify his objection. (Kirkland v. Superior Court (2002)
95 Cal.App.4th 92, 98.) 
 
Discussion
 
The RFPs at issue are the
following:
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO.
6:  Please produce any and all Tree
Risk Assessments of Bradford Pear trees performed by WCA for any client prior
July 24, 2018 (Responding Party may redact identifying client information from
any document produced)
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO.
12:  Please produce all DOCUMENTS in
Responding Party’s possession and control including, but not limited to, tree
assessment reports, White Papers, recommendation reports, newsletters, training
manuals, training handouts, PowerPoint presentations, etc., wherein Responding
Party discusses the structural characteristics of the Bradford Pear tree
species.
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO.
15:  Please produce any and all
DOCUMENTS in Responding Party’s possession and control supporting Responding
Party’s contention that Propounding Party is not entitled to equitable
indemnity from Responding Party for claims arising out of plaintiff’s
complaint.
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO.
16:  Please produce any and all
DOCUMENTS in Responding Party’s possession and control supporting Responding
Party’s contention that Propounding Party is not entitled to express
contractual indemnity from Responding Party for claims arising out of
plaintiff’s complaint. 
 
In sum, the RFPs seek all Tree
Risk Assessments of Bradford Pear Trees (the subject type of tree) for any
client before July 24, 2018, all documents for any client wherein WCA discussed
the structural characteristics of the tree type, all documents pertaining,
effectively, to the issue of WCA’s affirmative defenses.  
 
The City moves for an order
requiring WCA to provide further responses and production to numbers 6, 12, 15,
and 16 because the responses only contain objections (vague, overbroad, unduly
burdensome), do not identify whether any responsive documents existed or not,
do not identify any document falling within any objection, no provide a
privilege log or identification of privileged documents. (Motion p. 4)[1]
 
A. RFPs 6 and 12
 
i. Whether the Discovery is
Relevant? 
 
The City explains that
assessments and communications with other customers about the tree type are
relevant because some arborists have advised public entities to remove this
tree species because of their propensity to become poorly structured. (Separate
Statement p. 3.) Thus, as an expert in the arboreal community, WCA likely had
knowledge of the hazards, perhaps advised other clients/customers such
that WCA should have also communicated that information with the City.
(Separate Statement p. 2.) 
 
Therefore, the nature of the
discovery is relevant. 
 
ii. Whether the Discovery is
Overbroad?
 
WCA maintains that the breadth
of discovery is overbroad. Indeed, seeking documents going back 10 years
from multiple counties/cities is broad because “structural
characteristics of a tree can vary depending on geographical location, climate,
and environmental conditions such as light and temperature.” (Macias Decl., ¶5.) It is
well known that climate conditions ten years ago are different than they are
today with record-shattering temperatures (megafires, driest three-year period
on record). Not only are climate conditions different between California’s
counties and cities, but even far different between Arizona and California. 
 
Therefore, RFPs 6 and 12 are
modified wherein WCA is to provide documents for the past 4 years in the cities
adjacent to Diamond Bar: Rowland Heights, Walnut, Pomona, Chino, San Dimas, and
La Verne.[2] 
 
iii. Whether the Discovery
is Unduly Burdensome?  
 
As for the objection that it
would be unduly burdensome (as is the standard), “it must be
sustained by evidence showing the quantum of work required.” (West Pico
Furniture Co. of Los Angeles v. Superior Court In and For Los Angeles County (1961)
56 Cal.2d 407, 417; see also Cembrook v. Superior Court (1961) 56
Cal.2d 423, 428.) 
 
Here, there is insufficient
evidence that the discovery is unduly burdensome because for one, the court is
tailoring the RFPs 6 and 12 (limited cities and years). Second, as noted by the
City in Reply, WCA maintains electronic files; thus, word-search tools can be
employed to search the electronic files. (Reply p. 4.)[3] Third,
this is not a situation wherein it will take weeks or months or extensive
manpower to locate the relevant records; just “multiple” employees
approximately five to ten business days. (Opp. p. 7.) 
 
Therefore, as the assessment
reports can be identified with some time and some search (which is
but the very minimum expected of discovery), the court does not find the
discovery is unduly burdensome. 
 
B. RPFs 15 and 16
 
Turning to RFPs 15 and 16, the
court agrees with WCA that they are akin to improperly asking a party to
produce everything a responding party has in its possession such that they are
not discoverable. (Opp. p. 9.)[4] 
 
First, though the City
maintains it has requested specific documents, the request’s phrasing
itself contradicts that demand: it is requesting all documents that relate
to the matter. Seeking everything and anything is not particular. A
requesting party must “reasonably particularize each
category of item.” (Calcor, supra, fn. 4, at p. 221, 222.) To the
extent that the City attempts to distinguish the facts of this case from Calcor
on the grounds that Calcor involved discovery propounded upon a
nonparty, the distinction is inapposite as the case also addressed
records sought by a party. ([“Both sections 220 (dealing
with inspection demands on nonparties) and 2031 (dealing with inspection
demands on parties) require records sought to be produced be designated
“either by specifically describing each individual item or by reasonably
particularizing each category of item.”].)[5]
 
 
Here, however, the production is
sought without any adequate identification of the document sought to, leaving
WCA to guess what documents they are to produce. In fact, this “produce
everything in your possession” approach is akin to a detailed pre-trial
brief requesting WCA to identify all of the evidence that it intends to rely on
and to marshal the facts to the City’s defenses; it is not WCA’s responsibility
to create the City’s case. 
 
Therefore, absent any
instructive authority from the City, the court DENIES the RFPs as to Nos. 15
and 16. 
 
C. Monetary Sanctions 
 
As for monetary sanctions, as
both parties attended and IDC and have attempted to meet and confer in good
faith, no monetary sanctions are imposed on either party. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the
motion is granted in part (6 and 12, limited to 4 years to the cities of
Rowland Heights, Walnut, Pomona, Chino, San Dimas, and La Verne) and denied in
part (15 and 16 denied in their entirety). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



