 Case Number:  22PSCV00893    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
(1)   PLAINTIFF’S DEMURRER TO AMENDED ANSWER
OF DEFENDANTS JOHN TODD AND TODD MEMORIAL CHAPEL, INC. TO PLAINTIFF MARIA
VINE’S THIRD AMENDED COMPLAINT is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
 
(2)   PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS
OF THE AMENDED ANSWER OF DEFENDANTS JOHN TODD AND TODD MEMORIAL CHAPEL, INC. TO
PLAINTIFF MARIA VINE’S THIRD AMENDED COMPLAINT is GRANTED in part (i.e., as to
5th and 6th defenses, with leave to amend) and DENIED in
part (i.e., as to the remainder).  
 
Background
 
This case
pertains to a decedent’s funeral request. Plaintiff Maria Vine alleges the
following against Defendant John Todd: Plaintiff’s mother (“Decedent”) made
funeral and interment arrangements with Todd Memorial. Plaintiff alleges that on
May 10, 2018, Defendant breached the funeral agreement by failing to give
Decedent to a Catholic mass rosary combo. 
 
On August 22,
2022, Plaintiff filed the instant action asserting the following causes of
action (COAs): 
 
1.     Breach of Fiduciary Duty
2.     Breach of Contract
3.     Intentional Misrepresentation 
4.     Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress and
5.     Request for Punitive Damages
 
On September
26, 2022, Defendant filed a Demurrer. 
 
On October
20, 2022, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), asserting a new
cause of action for Fraudulent Concealment. 
 
On January
23, 2023, the court sustained in part and overruled in part Defendant’s
demurrer, giving leave to amend only as to the individual defendant. 
 
On February
21, 2023, Plaintiff filed her Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”), which
Defendants again demurred to. During the April 19, 2023 hearing on the demurrer
(which the court’s tentative was to overrule), the court determined it moot as
Plaintiff made an oral request to file a third amended complaint (TAC), which
the court granted. 
 
On June 21,
2023, Defendants filed a demurrer to the TAC, adding a cause of action (the
third COA) for fraudulent concealment (for a total of six COAs).  
 
On August 2,
2023, Plaintiff filed a ‘MOTION TO STRIKE DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRER TO THIRD AMENDED
COMPLAINT.’
 
On August 9,
2023, the court OVERRULED Defendants’ demurrer to the TAC. 
 
On September
13, 2023, the court found Plaintiff’s motion to strike Defendant’s demurrer to
the TAC moot. 
 
On September
25, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant demurrer and motion to strike (MTS).
 
On October
12, 2023, Defendants filed their opposition to both. 
 
Reply is due
Wednesday, October 25, 2023. 
 
Discussion[1]
 
I.               
Demurrer
to Defendants’ Answer
 
Plaintiff demurs to the 4th COA for Accord and Satisfaction
on the grounds that it is insufficient to constitute a defense and the answer
is uncertain, ambiguous, or unintelligible. (Demurrer p. 4:10-12.) 
 
An answer to a complaint must state facts
sufficient to constitute a defense. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 430.20, subd.
(a).) Accordingly, a plaintiff may test the
sufficiency of an answer by a demurrer or motion for judgment on the pleadings
“if his complaint states facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, and
the answer, as interposed by the defendant neither raises any material issue
nor states a defense, i.e., where the answer expressly or substantially admits
or does not sufficiently deny all the material allegations of the complaint
[citation], and sets up no new matter which is sufficient to bar or defeat
the action.” (Adjustment Corp v. Hollywood Hardware & Paint Co. (1939)
35 Cal.App.2d 566, 569-570.) More specifically regarding affirmative defenses
that a defendant relies upon that is not put at issue by the plaintiff, then
that is new matter and must be pled in the answer. (Opp. p. 3.) 
 
The 4th affirmative defense for Accord and Satisfaction
states the following:
 
Plaintiff’s
recovery is barred, diminished or reduced to the extent that she accepted
Defendants’ promise to pay a specified sum or other consideration in settlement
of the parties’ dispute or to the extent that Defendants made the payment or
provided the promised consideration and Plaintiff accepted it. 
 
(Answer, p.
3:6-11.) 
 
The issue of accord and satisfaction generally arises by way of
defense to an action on the obligation it is alleged to have extinguished. (Sappa v. Crestetto (1947) 78
Cal.App.2d 362.) The general rule of pleading is
that an executed accord and satisfaction is new matter, constituting an
affirmative defense that must be specially pleaded. (Opp. p. 3, citing Southern
California Disinfecting Co. v. Lomkin (1960) 183 Cal.App.2d 431.)  
 
Here, the
affirmative defense does provide facts and is new matter because it was
not put at issue by Plaintiff: Defendants offered consideration that was
accepted by plaintiff in lieu of an existing obligation. 
 
To the extent
that Plaintiff is attempting to adjudicate the viability of the defense, that
is not appropriate at this stage. (See Reply p. 2: [“Plaintiff has not accepted
any consideration.”].) 
 
As for
Plaintiff’s terse conclusion that the defense is ambiguous, it unambiguously
pleads the defense of accord and satisfaction, hence Plaintiff’s ability to
file a demurrer as to the defense. 
 
That said, the
court agrees that the defense lacks sufficient, ultimate facts such as an
agreement made in consideration or the date when such consideration was offered.
Affirmative defenses must not be pled as “terse
legal conclusions, but rather ... as facts ‘averred as carefully and with as
much detail as the facts which constitute the cause of action and are
alleged in the complaint.’” (Quantification Settlement Agreement Cases (2011)
201 Cal.App.4th 758, 813, emphasis added.) Here, however, there are no details
but rather a legal conclusion. (See also Motion p. 3, citing Berger v.
California Ins. Guar. Assn. (2005) 128 Cal. App.4th 989, 1006 [“Instead, they simply allege, ‘Plaintiffs gave timely
and adequate notice of claim.’ This allegation states only a legal conclusion,
rather than pleading facts, and, as such, is inadequate.”].)
To
the extent that Defendants aver “[t]here is no need to require specificity in the pleadings,” that is
inaccurate reading of their cited case law (Opp. p. 4, citing Ludgate Ins.
Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2000) 82 Cal. App. 4th 592, 608 (Ludgate).)
Ludgate explained the “fair-notice test” which requires that the pleading party
plead the essential facts with reasonable precision and with particularity
sufficient to acquaint the party “with the nature, source and extent of his
cause of action.”  Here, however, the
defense does not state facts to apprise Plaintiff of why her claims are barred
by the SOL. (See also Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure
Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2004) ¶ 6:127, p. 6–26[“[f]ailure to plead
ultimate facts subjects the complaint to demurrer for
‘failure to state facts constituting the cause of action ’”].)
To the extent that Defendants aver that less particularity is required because
Plaintiff may possess the facts, it is Defendants’ defense, suggesting Defendants
hold the knowledge regarding the defense and it is also Defendants who made the
settlement offer. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the
foregoing, the court SUSTAINS Plaintiff’s demurrer as to the 4th
affirmative defense for accord and satisfaction with leave to amend. 
 
II.             
Motion
to Strike
 
Plaintiff has
filed a Motion to Strike the First, Second, Third, Fifth, Sixth and Seventh
Affirmative Defenses and Prayer, on the ground that these defenses do not state
new matter, are uncertain and have been “already adjudicated” by this court.
 
A
motion to strike portions of the answer may be done on the grounds that the
answer contains “irrelevant, false, or improper matter” or that are “not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.” (See generally Expert Series, § 1:4. Response to
affirmative defenses and pleas, 1 Cal. Affirmative Def. § 1:4 (2d ed.).) The
grounds for the motion to strike the answer must appear on the face of the
answer or in a matter of which the court is required to take judicial
notice. In this regard, the motion to strike is narrower than the
demurrer. (Ibid.) 
 
At the outset, though
Plaintiff is pro per, a pro per party is held to the same standard as an
attorney. With that, Plaintiff’s citations to non-binding and unpersuasive
authority violates the California Rules of Court Rule 8.1115 (‘Citation of
opinion’).[2]
Thus, such citations and the propositions they deem to support will not be
addressed. On this matter about proper citations, Plaintiff also does not
provide an adequate analysis as to some issues. Mere citation (and string
citations) to cases without application the instant facts does not constitute an analysis. Thus, any conclusions that are not supported by an analysis and
binding law and an analysis will not be addressed (which is a large portion of
the motion and reply). 
 
Second, as
noted by Defendants in opposition, to the extent that Plaintiff moves to strike
various defenses on the grounds that the court “already adjudicated” the issues
(see e.g., Motion p. 3, 6),[3]
that is not so. A demurrer only tests the sufficiency of the pleadings, not the
truth of the matters asserted. Put differently, even though Defendants already
raised the issue of the statute of limitations or lack of individual liability,
the court’s ruling on a demurrer does not equate to Defendants inability to not
assert those issues again as a defense as the factual/evidentiary validity
of the defenses will likely be decided with other motions. Therefore,
Plaintiff’s said grounds for striking for defenses is improper, and will not be
further addressed by the court. 
 
a.     First Affirmative Defense – Statute of
Limitations
 
The First
Affirmative Defense (Statute of Limitations) reads: Plaintiff’s causes of
action are barred by the provisions of Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§ 335.1, 337, 338,
339, 340 and 343 in that more time than is permissible has elapsed between the
accrual of Plaintiff’s alleged causes of action and the filing of Plaintiff’s
Third Amended Complaint against Defendants.
 
Plaintiff moves
to strike on the grounds that “this affirmative defense hasn't stated any new
facts or issues in Plaintiff’s complaint, and this issue has already been
adjudicated on January 23, 2023.” (Motion p. 4.) 
 
As stated
above, the SOL is still a defense that Defendants may assert. To the extent
that More facts are needed, Plaintiff does not provide instructive authority
(i.e., cases involving a motion to strike statute of limitations). 
 
Therefore, the
court DENIES the motion to strike on said grounds. 
 
b.     Second Affirmative Defense – Lack of Standing/Lack
of Privity
 
The Second Affirmative Defense (Lack of Standing/Lack of
Privity) reads: “Plaintiff’s causes of action are barred because she does not
have standing to bring this case. Plaintiff did not enter into the contract
with Defendants and has failed to attach any agreement showing that Plaintiff
has a right to recover for the alleged breach of contract.”
 
Plaintiff moves
to strike this defense on the grounds that it “hasn't stated any new facts or
issues in Plaintiff’s complaint and this issue has already been adjudicated on
April 19, 2023.” (Motion p. 5.)
 
As stated
above, as the defense is new matter outside the complaint and hasn’t been
adjudicated, the motion to strike is DENIED. 
 
c.      Third
Affirmative Defense – No Liability of Individual for Corporate Acts
 
The Third Affirmative Defense (No Liability of Individual For
Corporate Acts) reads: “Plaintiff’s recovery against individual defendant John
Todd is barred, diminished or reduced by the fact that he performed no acts in
an individual capacity and is not liable for the acts of the corporation.”
 
As this issue
has not been adjudicated, the court DENIES the motion to strike. 
 
d.     Fifth Affirmative Defense – Punitive
Damages Not Recoverable by Executor
 
The Fifth
Affirmative Defense (Punitive Damages Not Recoverable by Executor) reads:
“Plaintiff’s recovery of punitive damages in her capacity as executor is
barred, diminished or reduced because punitive damages are not recoverable in
this capacity.”
 
Plaintiff moves
to strike this defense because “there is not a law in California that precludes
an executor from requesting or obtaining punitive damages (Civil Code section
3294).” (Motion p. 6.)
 
In opposition,
Defendants cite to Cal. C.C.P. 377.34 for the conclusion that decedent’s
personal representative cannot recover emotional distress or punitive damages.
 
Here, as noted by Plaintiff in Reply
and by the court in previous rulings, this is not a wrongful death case.
Rather, Plaintiff is seeking emotional or punitive damages based upon her
own causes of action. 
 
Therefore, the court GRANTS the motion
with leave to amend as to the 5th COA. 
 
e.      Sixth Affirmative Defense – Punitive
Damages Unconstitutional
 
The Sixth
Affirmative Defense (Punitive Damages Unconstitutional) reads: “Plaintiff’s
claim for exemplary and punitive damages is barred because it violates the
right of Defendants to protection from “excessive fines” in the Eighth
Amendment of the United States Constitution and in Article I, Section 17 of the
California Constitution.”
 
As noted by
Plaintiff in opposition, Civil Code section 3294 provides that a plaintiff can
obtain punitive damages when it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud or malice. 
 
Therefore, as
punitive damages are recoverable, the court GRANTS the motion to strike the 6th
COA with leave to amend.[4]

 
f.       Seventh Affirmative Defense – Evidence
of Defendants’ Financial Condition
 
The Seventh Affirmative Defense (Evidence of Defendants’
Financial Condition) reads: “Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages is barred
by the Due Process Clause of the U.S. Constitution, Amend. V and XIV, § 1, and
Constitution of the State of California, to the extent evidence of Defendants’
financial condition is permitted, by inviting the jury to award an arbitrary
amount of punitive damages based on Defendants’ status as an industrial
enterprise.”
 
Plaintiff moves
to strike this defense because “defendants have insurance for their business
and are sued, it is generally not appropriate to use the affirmative defense of
the defendant's financial condition.” (Motion p. 8.)
 
However, as
Plaintiff has not provided binding legal authority to support this argument,
the court DENIES the motion to strike the 7th COA. 
 
g.     Miscellaneous 
 
Plaintiff also
moves to strike certain paragraphs 1-3. (Motion pp. 8-9.) 
However, as
Plaintiff has not provided legal authority but rather one sentence of a
conclusion, the argument is deemed waived. 
 
Therefore, the
court DENIES the motion to strike those paragraphs.  
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the
foregoing, the court GRANTS the motion to strike as to the 5th COA
(punitive damages by executor) and 6th COA (punitive damages
unconstitutional) with leave to amend, DENIES the motion in part as to the
other grounds. 
 


