 Case Number:  23STCV22536    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff
Peter Alexan Enterprises Inc.’s Motions to Compel Further Responses to Requests
for Production and Form Interrogatories to Defendant Jara Blash
Plaintiff
Peter Alexan Enterprises Inc., doing business as RA Consulting, moves to compel
defendant/cross-complainant Jara Blash to further respond to requests for
production and to form interrogatories.
Meet and Confer
Blash
argues plaintiff did not meet and confer in good faith before filing these
motions.  Before moving to compel further discovery responses, a
party must make a “reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution
of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.)  This rule aims “to encourage the parties to
work out their differences informally so as to avoid the necessity for a formal
order.”  (Clement v. Alegre (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1277, 1293.)  “The level
of effort at informal resolution which satisfies the ‘reasonable and good faith
attempt’ standard depends upon the circumstances.”  (Obregon v. Superior Court (1998)
67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431.)  
Plaintiff made an adequate effort
to informally resolve these discovery disputes. 
Plaintiff’s counsel sent Blash’s counsel detailed meet and confer
correspondence about Blash’s discovery responses.  (Kernan Decl., ¶¶ 4-7, Exs. C-F.)
Opposing
Separate Statements
            Plaintiff argues Blash waived any
opposition because she did not file a separate statement in support of either
opposition.  California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1345(a) provides, “Any motion involving the content of a discovery
request or the responses to such a request must be accompanied by a separate
statement.”  Rule 3.1345(c) provides, “A
separate statement is a separate document filed and served with the discovery
motion... .”  This requirement does not
apply when opposing discovery motions.
Requests for Production
Plaintiff moves to
compel Blash to serve further responses to requests for production Nos. 1-3, 6-21, and 35-40.  A party demanding documents may move to compel
further responses if “[a] statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete,” “[a] representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive,” or “[a]n objection in the response is without merit or
too general.”  (CCP § 2031.310(a).)
Blash
made meritless objections in response to these requests.  Her response begins with eight “general
objections.”  The responding party
“shall respond separately to each item or category.”  (CCP § 2031.210(a).)  Such “general objections” are “too
general.”  (CCP § 2031.310(a)(3).)  Blash also does not substantively justify
these “general objections.”  (See Fairmont
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255 [“if a timely motion
to compel has been filed, the burden is on responding party to justify any
objection”].)
Blash
also responded that she “objects to this request to the extent it seeks
documents already in Plaintiff’s possession, custody, or control, or equally
available to Plaintiff.”  This objection does not apply to requests for
production.  The objection only applies to
interrogatories, and only when “the responding party does not
have personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully.”  (CCP § 2030.220(c).)  Responding parties must conduct “a diligent
search and a reasonable inquiry … in an effort to comply.”  (CCP § 2031.230.)  Responding parties necessarily can determine
which documents they possess.  If they
possess responsive documents and have no valid basis for withholding them, they
must produce the documents regardless of whether the requesting party also possesses
them.  
Blash further objected that each request “is overbroad and
burdensome.”  These requests are “reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  (CCP § 2017.010.)  They are not overly broad.  They are sufficiently tailored to the claims
in this action.  During the meet and confer
process, plaintiff agreed to narrow the time period of documents requested to
three years before plaintiff filed this action. 
(Kernan Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. F.)  For her objection that the requests are
“burdensome,” Blash does not present “ ‘evidence
showing the quantum of work required.’ ” (Williams v. Superior Court
(2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 549.)  
The
court will not overrule objections based on attorney-client and work product privileges.  Courts may not “find a waiver of the attorney-client privilege and work
product doctrine when the objecting party submits an inadequate privilege log
that fails to provide sufficient information to evaluate the merits of the
objections.”  (Catalina Island Yacht
Club v. Superior Court (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1120.)  Blash may assert these privileges but must serve
a privilege log to “provide sufficient factual
information for other parties to evaluate the merits of” the objections.”  (CCP § 2031.240(c)(1).)  
Nos. 6, 15, and 40
            Blash
made meritless objections but also gave valid statements of compliance in
response to Nos. 6, 15, and 40.  After
objecting, she responded, “Defendant will produce all documents
responsive to this Request in her possession, custody, and control.”  When objecting, the response must “[i]dentify
with particularity any document, tangible thing, land, or electronically stored
information falling within any category of item in the demand to which an
objection is being made.”  (CCP §
2031.240(b)(1).)  When the responding
party agrees to produce all responsive documents, there is nothing withheld and
no reason to object.  
            Plaintiff’s
motion argues Blash failed to produce documents in response to Nos. 6, 15, and
40.  Blash later produced some
documents.  Whether Blash produced all responsive
documents in her possession is not properly before the court.  That is the subject of a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure section 2031.320(a) after a party “fails to permit the
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling in accordance with that party’s
statement of compliance.”  
            Except
for objections based on attorney-client privilege and the work product
doctrine, Jara Blash’s objections to the requests for production are overruled.
Interrogatories
Plaintiff moves to
compel defendant Jara Blash to further respond to form interrogatory – general,
No. 17.1.  A party propounding
interrogatories may move to compel further responses when an answer “is evasive
or incomplete,” “[a]n exercise of the option to produce documents under Section
2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is
inadequate,” or “[a]n objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too
general.”  (CCP § 2030.300(a).)  
Blash provided
supplemental responses after plaintiff filed this motion.  (Ly Decl., ¶ 20, Ex. P.)  The supplemental responses include evasive
answers to No. 17.1(d), which ask the responding party to “identify all
DOCUMENTS and other tangible things that support your response and state the
name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of the PERSON who has each DOCUMENT or
thing.”  
As to several
requests for admission, Blash responded, “Plaintiff has possession,
custody, and control of the documents that may support the response to this
interrogatory.  Blash will be seeking
those documents in discovery, which remains ongoing.”  (E.g., Nos. 2, 8, 11.)  That is not “as complete and straightforward
as the information reasonably available to the responding party permits.”  (CCP § 2030.220(a).)  If Blash does not know of any such documents,
she must state so instead of speculating that plaintiff has unspecified
documents that “may support” her responses. 

Blash’s response also included improper general
objections.  Her objections to form
interrogatory – general, No. 17.1, are overruled.
Sanctions
In
each motion, plaintiff moves for $4,560 in sanctions against Blash and her
counsel.  A court must impose monetary
sanctions against any party or attorney who unsuccessfully opposes a motion to
compel further responses, unless the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or other circumstances would make sanctions
unjust.  (CCP §§ 2030.300(d)
[interrogatories]; 2031.310(h) [requests for production].)  Blash unsuccessfully opposed these motions
and made meritless objections to discovery. 
She did not act with substantial justification.  Sanctions are just under the circumstances.
Disposition
Plaintiff
Peter Alexan Enterprises Inc.’s motion to compel further responses to requests
for production is granted.  Defendant/cross-complainant
Jara Blash is ordered to serve further verified responses to requests
for production Nos. 1-3, 6-21, and 35-40 and a privilege log within 30
days.  Blash must make no objections
except those based on attorney-client privilege or the work product
doctrine.  Blash’s responses shall be
limited to documents from September 18, 2020, to the present.    
Defendant
shall produce all additional responsive documents concurrently with her written
responses.  Defendant/cross-complainant
Jara Blash and her counsel John K. Ly are ordered to pay plaintiff
$4,560 in sanctions within 30 days. 
Defendant and her counsel shall be jointly and severally liable for the
sanctions.
Plaintiff
Peter Alexan Enterprises Inc.’s motion to compel further responses to form
interrogatories is granted. 
Defendant/cross-complainant Jara Blash is ordered to serve
further verified responses without objections to form interrogatory – general,
No. 17.1(d) within 30 days. 
Defendant/cross-complainant Jara Blash and her counsel John K. Ly are ordered
to pay plaintiff $4,560 in sanctions within 30 days.  Defendant and her counsel shall be
jointly and severally liable for the sanctions.Defendant Jara Blash’s Motion for Protective Order
Defendant Jara Blash moves
for a protective order to delay her deposition and to take the deposition
either in Florida or by remote means.  Generally,
“the burden is on the party seeking the protective order to show good cause for
whatever order is sought.”  (Fairmont
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)
Assuming the motion is not
moot as to scheduling the deposition, Blash does not show good cause for an
order delaying her deposition.  Not being
available may be a reason to not attend as a practical matter, but it is not a
valid objection to a notice of deposition. 
(See CCP §§ 2025.210 & 2025.410.) 
It may be a professional courtesy to mutually schedule a deposition, but
the Civil Discovery Act does not require that. 
“An oral deposition shall be scheduled for a date at least 10 days after
service of the deposition notice.”  (CCP
§ 2025.270(a).)  “The service of a
deposition notice under Section 2025.240 is effective to require any deponent
who is a party to the action… to attend and to testify, as well as to produce
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing for
inspection and copying.”  (CCP §
2025.280(a).)
That Blash prefers to resolve disputes
regarding the pleadings and other discovery issues does not constitute good
cause to delay her deposition.  
Blash shows good cause to require her
deposition take place either remotely or in Florida.  It is undisputed that she
lives in Florida.  “Unless the court
orders otherwise under Section 2025.260, the deposition of a natural person,
whether or not a party to the action, shall be taken at a place that is, at the
option of the party giving notice of the deposition, either within 75 miles of
the deponent’s residence, or within the county where the action is pending and
within 150 miles of the deponent’s residence.” 
(CCP § 2025.250(a).)  Nowhere in
California is within 150 miles of Blash’s residence.  
For depositions in another
state, “[t]he deposition notice shall specify a place in the state, territory,
or insular possession of the United States that is within 75 miles of the
residence or a business office of a deponent.” 
(CCP § 2026.010(b).)  Defendant
cannot require Blash to attend a deposition more than 75 miles from her
residence.
Disposition
Defendant Jara Blash’s motion
for protective order is granted in part. 
The court hereby orders that, under Code of Civil Procedure
section 2026.010, Blash shall not be required to attend deposition more than 75
miles from her residence.Defendant
Jara Blash’s Demurrer to First Amended Complaint
Defendant
Jara Blash demurs to the first and second causes of action alleged in the first
amended complaint by plaintiff Peter Alexan Enterprises Inc. dba RA
Consulting.  
1. Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic
Advantage
Plaintiff
alleges sufficient facts for this cause of action against Blash.  “Intentional
interference with prospective economic advantage has five elements: (1) the
existence, between the plaintiff and some third party, of an economic
relationship that contains the probability of future economic benefit to the
plaintiff; (2) the defendant's knowledge of the relationship; (3) intentionally
wrongful acts designed to disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption of
the relationship; and (5) economic harm proximately caused by the defendant’s
action.”  (Roy Allan Slurry Seal, Inc.
v. American Asphalt South, Inc. (2017) 2 Cal.5th 505, 512.)
A.
Blash as Plaintiff’s Agent or Representative
Blash
argues she cannot be liable for any interference done while she worked for
plaintiff.  “[T]he representative of a
contracting party may not be held liable for the tort of interfering with its
principal’s contract.”  (Mintz v. Blue
Cross of California (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1594, 1607.)  This rule “ ‘derives from the principle that
ordinarily corporate agents and employees acting for and on behalf of the
corporation cannot be held liable for inducing a breach of the corporation's
contract since being in a confidential relationship to the corporation their
action in this respect is privileged.’ ” 
(Gruenberg v. Aetna Ins. Co. (1973) 9 Cal.3d 566, 576.)  
None
of the authority Blash relies on addresses when the principal sues its own agent
for interfering with the principal’s business.  In these cases, a third party sues the agent
for interfering with a contract between the third party and the principal.  The above rule originates from the law generally
limiting an agent’s liability to third persons. 
(Civ. Code, § 2343.)  In contrast,
agents generally owe numerous duties to their own principals.  (See Rest.3d Agency, §§ 8.01-8.12.)  The rule that a party’s representative cannot
be liable for interference with the principal’s contract or business relations
does not apply to actions by the principal.
Moreover,
even if this rule applies, it does not mean plaintiff fails to allege sufficient
facts for a cause of action arising from Blash’s conduct while she was
plaintiff’s agent.  “Irrespective of the labels attached
by the pleader to any alleged cause of action, we examine the factual
allegations of the complaint, ‘to determine whether they state a cause of
action on any available
legal theory.’ ”  (Adelman v. Associated Intern. Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th
352, 359.)  Agents owe numerous duties to
principals.  The factual allegations
constitute a breach of at least one of those duties, even if not precisely the
tort of intentional interference with prospective economic advantage.
B. Wrongful
Conduct After Termination
Blash also
argues she cannot be liable for any conduct after her termination because
plaintiff does not allege anything independently wrongful.  “[A]
plaintiff seeking to recover for alleged interference with prospective
economic relations has the burden of pleading and proving that the defendant’s
interference was wrongful ‘by some measure beyond the fact of the interference
itself.’ ”  (Della Penna v. Toyota
Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. (1995) 11 Cal.4th 376, 392–393.)  “The defendant’s conduct must ‘fall outside
the boundaries of fair competition.’ ”  (Venhaus
v. Shultz (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 1072, 1079.)  
The first
amended complaint alleges “Defendants … interfered with Plaintiff’s economic
relationships with San Diego Comic Convention” and others by “spreading false
statements about Plaintiff to Plaintiff’s vendors, contractors, and clients
(including San Diego Comic Convention), refusing to return company files and
property, egregious misconduct during the 2023 Comic-Con event in San Diego,
improper private communications with Comic-Con representatives at Comic-Con
after termination (Defendant Blash), various improper attempts to hire Plaintiff’s
managers after Defendants’ termination, and multiple illegal attempts to access
company accounts after termination.”  (¶
21.)  When liberally construed, these
allegations suffice to constitute independently wrongful conduct.  
Moreover, the
court found Blash can be liable for interference carried out during her
employment.  Even if she cannot be liable
for conduct after her termination, that would not dispose of an entire cause of
action as required to sustain a demurrer. 
(Southern California Pizza Co.,
LLC v. Certain Underwriters at Lloyd’s, London etc. (2019) 40
Cal.App.5th 140, 154.)  
2. Negligent Interference with Prospective Economic
Advantage
Plaintiff alleges
sufficient facts for this cause of action against Blash.  She repeats her argument that she cannot be
liable for acts during her employment.  The
court again rejects that argument.  Blash
further argues plaintiff has not alleged sufficient facts to establish a duty
of care as to acts after her termination. 
Again, because she can be liable for negligent acts during her
employment, this argument would not dispose of the entire cause of action.  The court therefore need not address the
issue of duty after Blash’s termination. 
It declines to do so. 
Blash also argues
the first amended complaint does not sufficiently identify the business
relationships she allegedly interfered with. 
Blash did not raise this argument until the reply.  Moreover, the first amended complaint adequately
alleges at least one such relationship: “Plaintiff’s economic relationships
with San Diego Comic Convention.”  (FAC,
¶ 42.)  
Disposition
Defendant
Jara Blash’s demurrer to the first amended complaint is overruled.  Blash is ordered to answer within 20 days.