 Case Number:  21STCV41690    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO COMPEL MENTAL EXAMINATION
Hearing Date: 6/3/24
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV41690 CHRISTOPHER MATTHEW
STUMPF vs ALATUS AEROSYSTEMS
Moving Party: Defendants
Responding Party: Plaintiff
Notice: Sufficient
Ruling: MOTION TO COMPEL MENTAL EXAMINATION 
 IS
GRANTED
 
On November 12, 2021,
Plaintiff filed the present complaint alleging he suffers from mental,
emotional, and cognitive injuries, including traumatic brain injury (TBI) and
myoclonic jerks, as a result of the subject accident. The parties do not
dispute that a mental examination is required but, after meeting and
conferring, hit an impasse on whether raw test data and testing materials
should be provided directly to Plaintiff’s counsel upon completion of the
mental examination, and whether both the testing and interview portions of the
examination should be audio recorded and provided to Plaintiff’s counsel
directly.
In applying CCP § 2032.310 and in balancing
Plaintiff’s need for relevant information against the protection of the
integrity of the tests, the Court rules as follows:
 
1.  Raw data and testing materials are to be
provided to Plaintiff’s counsel for cross examination purposes and to challenge
Defendant’s expert’s conclusions but subject to a protective order, requiring the materials to remain
confidential and used solely for the purposes of this case to obviate any
concerns over production of raw data.
2.  CCP § 2032.530(a) expressly permits the
examinee and/or the examiner to audio record the examination in its entirety;
however, it does not provide for or preclude the disclosure of such audio
recordings. The disclosure of such material remains within the sound discretion
of the trial court. (Randy's Trucking, Inc. v. Superior Court (2023) 91
Cal.App.5th 818, 835.) The Court, in its discretion, finds that the use of the
recordings for case preparation and cross-examination outweighs Defendant's
interests, including the security and integrity of the test as alleged by
Defendant. Therefore, the Court orders the audio recording of the interview and
testing portion to be provided to Plaintiff’s counsel, subject to a protective
order. 
Plaintiff is ordered to attend his mental
examination within 60 days of today, subject to the Court’s ruling on the
issues listed above.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 