 Case Number:  22STCV06290    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO CONTINUE ALL RELATED DATES TO FOLLOW
THE NEW TRIAL DATE 
Hearing Date: 6/3/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV06290 DOROTHY LEICHMAN vs
EL SEGUNDO AVALON SHOPPING
Moving Party: Defendant El Segundo Avalon Shopping Center
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO CONTINUE ALL RELATED DATES
TO FOLLOW THE NEW TRIAL DATE IS GRANTED 
 
Legal Standard
 
The reopening of discovery is a matter that is committed to the
trial court’s sound discretion.¿ (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2024.050(a), (b).)¿ In
exercising that discretion, the trial court considers “any matter relevant to the leave requested,” including:
 
(1) The necessity and the reasons for the discovery.
 
(2) The
diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the
hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not
completed or that the discovery motion was not heard earlier.
 
(3) Any
likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the discovery motion will
prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere
with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any other party.
 
(4) The
length of time that has elapsed between any date previously set, and the date
presently set, for the trial of the action.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050(b).)
 
Discussion
On February 22, 2023, Plaintiff filed the
present trip and fall accident lawsuit against four defendants, including
Defendant El Segundo Avalon Shopping Center. Defendant Avalon filed its answer
on April 3, 2023. Plaintiff passed away in 2023 and consequently Defendant has
not received any responses to its discovery requests. No motion for
substitution of the deceased Plaintiff for a descendant’s personal representative
or successor in interest has been filed. As a result, Defendant has not been
able to conduct any discovery and Defendant now moves the court to have the
current discovery cut off date to follow the new trial date of October 10,
2024. Plaintiff did not file an opposition.
 
Since it filed its answer in April 2023,
Defendant had approximately one year to conduct discovery. This timeframe was
further limited by the Plaintiff’s passing and a lack of a substitution, which
severely hindered Defendant's ability to proceed with discovery. In light of
these circumstances, it is reasonable for Defendant to request additional time
to conduct further discovery in order to adequately prepare a defense.
Defendant has shown good cause, and the court grants Defendant’s motion. All
trial-related deadlines are to follow the current trial date set for October
10, 2024.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.