 Case Number:  23STCV29151    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     August
14, 2024                                 TRIAL
DATE:  Vacated
                                                           
CASE:                         Bespoke Funding
2021A LLC v. Grupo Flor Corporation, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV29151
 





















 
PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Bespoke Funding 2021A LLC 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendants Grupo
Flor Corporation, et al.
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            In 2022,
non-party Bespoke Financial Inc. (Bespoke Financial) entered into written loan agreements
with Grupo Flor Corporation (Grupo Flor), East of Eden Cannabis Co. (EOE) and
WF Enterprises, Inc. (WF).  The EOE and WF loan agreements were guaranteed
by Flor X, Inc. (Flor X).  Thereafter, EOE and WF defaulted on the monthly
payments which separately triggered Flor X’s obligation and liability. 
Grupo Flor, as the alleged alter ego of EOE, WF, and Flor X, is liable for
their breaches. Bespoke Financial assigned all rights and obligations of the
loan agreements to Bespoke Funding 2021A LLC (Bespoke Funding). 
 
On November 29, 2023, Plaintiff Bespoke Funding filed a
Complaint against Defendants, Grupo Flor, EOE, WF, and Flor X, alleging causes
of action for (1) Breach of Contract (EOE Loan); (2) Breach of Contract (WF
Loan); (3) Breach of Contract (Flor X Guaranty); (4) Promissory Estoppel; (5)
Quantum Meruit; (6) Open Book Account; (7) Account Stated; and (8)
Restitution. 
 
            Defendants moved
to disqualify David Welch as counsel for Plaintiff.  The motion was heard
on May 14, 2024. The parties focused much of the oral argument on when Mr.
Welch obtained knowledge of Grupo Flor’s dispensary, Moss Landing, and Grupo
Flor’s intention to sell it.  Defendants argued
Mr. Welch obtained that information while purportedly representing Grupo Flor in
an unrelated transaction.  The court was
not persuaded and denied the motion.  Grupo
Flor filed an appeal, which is currently pending.
 
            On June 3,
2024, Defendants filed their notice of appeal. 
 
            On June 27,
2024, during the Case Management Conference, the court discussed the status of
the appeal with the parties.  Based upon
that discussion, the court, sua sponte, ordered the matter stayed 
 
            On July 8,
2024, Plaintiff filed this motion for reconsideration of the court’s June 27,
2024 order staying the case.
 
            Defendants
filed an opposition.  Plaintiff replied.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD 
“When an application for an order
has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or
granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order
may, within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of
the order and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make
application to the same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the
matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1008,
subd. (a).)¿ “A party seeking reconsideration also must provide a satisfactory
explanation for the failure to produce the evidence at an earlier time.
[Citation.]”¿ (New York Times Co. v. Superior Court (2005) 135
Cal.App.4th 206, 212.)¿¿A motion for reconsideration is properly denied where
it is based on evidence that could have been presented in connection with the
original motion.¿ (Morris v. AGFA Corp. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th
1452, 1460.)¿¿¿ 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiff moves the court to reconsider
its June 27, 2024 order staying this action. Plaintiff argues (1) an order
denying a motion to disqualify counsel is a collateral matter which does not
automatically stay the action during the perfecting of the appeal, and (2) Defendants
are using the appeal process as a delay tactic.  
 
            Plaintiff argues the motion should
be denied because (1) it is not an appropriate motion for reconsideration
pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. § 1008, subd. (a).) and (2) the court had and has
discretion to impose a stay.  
 
            A. 
Whether the Court Can or Should Reconsider its Order Staying the
Case?
 
            Defendant
points out properly that the court issued the order staying the case sua
sponte at the case management conference. 
Plaintiff argues the motion should be denied because there are no new or
different facts, circumstances, or law that support Defendant’s request for
reconsideration.  (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §
1008(a).)  Defendant responds that the
court can choose to reconsider its prior ruling on its own motion.  
            The
court will reconsider its ruling.  At the
time of the case management conference, the court addressed the issue of a stay
without affording the parties an opportunity to brief the issue.  In its motion, Defendant provides the court
with authority, Reed v. The Superior Court of Los Angeles County, (2001)
Cal.App.4th 448 (Reed). 
Neither party discussed, let alone briefed, the issue prior to the case
management conference.  While Reed
is not new law, neither party had an opportunity to address the issue before
the court ruled sua sponte to stay the case.  Consequently, the court grants the request
for reconsideration.[1] 
            B.  Whether the Court Should Reverse its Prior
Order Staying the Case?
            Plaintiff cites Reed v. Superior Court (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 448, 450, in support of
its argument the court should vacate its prior ruling, lift the stay, and
proceed with the case.  Reed stands
for the proposition that a denial of a motion to disqualify counsel does not automatically
stay the case if an appeal is taken.  (Reed,
supra, at p. 450 [“An
order denying disqualification of counsel is appealable as an order on a
collateral matter or an order denying an injunction, but such an appeal does
not lead to an automatic stay of the trial”].) 
 While the notice of appeal will
not automatically stay the case, whether the case should be stayed is within
the discretion of the trial court.  (Reed,
supra, at p. 455 [“we conclude the question whether discovery or trial
should be stayed pending an appeal from an unsuccessful motion to disqualify
counsel rests in the discretion of the trial and appellate courts”].)  
            When
considering whether to grant a stay by petition for a writ of supersedeas or a
stay ancillary to a petition for extraordinary relief on the merits, the Reed
Court discussed the appellate court’s analysis as follows:  “Whichever method is used for seeking
appellate relief, a reasonably persuasive showing that the claim of
disqualification likely has merit will probably persuade the appellate court to
stay the underlying proceedings pending resolution of the disqualification
issue. (Citation.) Courts of appeal understand that prejudice occurs if the
trial is not stayed pending an appeal of an arguably meritorious claim of
disqualification. (Citation.) ¶ In some cases, however, the claim of
disqualification will be insubstantial or even frivolous. To hold that an
appeal from an order denying disqualification automatically stays the trial
proceedings would encourage the use of such motions and appeals merely to delay
the trial.” (Reed, supra. 92 Cal.App.4th at pp. 455–456.) 
            This
court follows Reed’s guidance.  Plaintiff’s
motion, while denied, was not insubstantial or frivolous.  Plaintiff presented the declaration from Mustafa
“Mike” Bitar in support of its motion raising issues related to Mr. Welch’s representation of Grupo Flor.  The court cannot say the motion was
“insubstantial or even frivolous.”         
            Upon
reconsideration, the court makes explicit that it is exercising its discretion
to stay the case.  The court is not
imposing an automatic stay because of Defendant’s appeal.  The court understands and appreciates Plaintiff’s
concern about delays and debts owed.  The
court has exercised its discretion to stay the proceedings and does so, in
part, because of the serious implications a reversal of the court’s ruling on
the disqualification motion would have on the matter if this case were not stayed. A reversal would
undue everything moving forward.  Given
the court’s finding that the motion was not insubstantial or frivolous, the equities
favor a stay.  
IV.        CONCLUSION
            
The motion is DENIED. 

 
Defendants to give notice. 

 
Dated:   August 14, 2024                                          




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
            


