  Case Number:  20STCV29550    Hearing Date:   October 22, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative RulingMOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants Baird Allan Brown and Baird Brown APC
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): No response on
eCourt as of 10/17/24
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for legal malpractice that was filed on August 5, 2020.
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants allowed the statute of limitations to lapse
before bringing a wrongful death claim against a manufacturer of a hernia mesh
which Plaintiffs contend contributed to the death of their mother. 
 
Defendants Baird Allan Brown and
Baird Brown, APC move for summary judgment. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Defendants Baird Allan Brown and
Baird Brown, APC’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendants Baird Allan Brown and
Baird Brown, APC move for summary judgment. 
 
Legal Standard
 
The function of a motion for
summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an
opposing party can show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and, if
not, to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil
Procedure Section 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment
if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from
the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that
there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” 
(Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110,
1119.)  “The function of the pleadings in
a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the
function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any
triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge
v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-82.)
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (Code Civ Proc. § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes,
Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,
Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) The lack of opposition by a plaintiff is
not grounds to grant a motion for summary judgment if a defendant cannot meet
their initial burden of proof. (See Thatcher v. Lucy Stores, Inc. (2000)
79 Cal.App.4th 1081, 1087.)
 
            Once the
defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that
a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or a defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Analysis
 
            Defendants Baird
Allan Brown and Baird Brown, APC seek summary judgment on Plaintiffs’ single
cause of action against them for legal malpractice. 
 
To prevail on a legal malpractice cause of action,
Plaintiffs must establish: “(1) breach of the attorney's duty to use such
skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of the profession commonly
possess and exercise; (2) a proximate causal connection between the negligent
conduct and the resulting injury; and (3) actual loss or damage resulting from
the negligence.” (Namikas v. Miller (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 1574, 1581.) Critically,
to establish causation for legal malpractice, the plaintiff must establish
that, “but for the alleged negligence of the defendant attorney, the
plaintiff would have obtained a more favorable judgment or settlement in the
action in which the malpractice allegedly occurred.” (Viner v. Sweet (2003)
30 Cal.4th 1232, 1241 [emphasis in original].) “The purpose of this
requirement, which has been in use for more than 120 years, is to safeguard
against speculative and conjectural claims.” (Id.) It is well-settled
that the case-within-the-case format is “properly employed as the method of
proving the elements of causation and damages when the malpractice involves
negligence in the prosecution or defense of a legal claim.” (See Piscitelli
v. Friedenberg (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 953, 973.)
 
            Plaintiffs
are the surviving heirs of Ethel Fay Mick, who died on September 11, 2014.
(Complaint ¶ 2.) Plaintiffs retained the services of Defendant Brown and his
corporation to investigate Plaintiffs’ claim that the decedent’s death was
caused by the installation of a defective surgical hernia mesh in 2008. (¶¶ 4; 8.)
Defendant Brown retained the services of Defendant Norris and his firm as
co-counsel, and Plaintiffs entered into a retainer agreement with the Norris
Defendants. (¶ 5.) Plaintiffs allege that Defendants failed to bring a claim
for products liability leading to wrongful death within the time provided by
the applicable statute of limitations in Missouri, where the decedent had resided,
and the surgery took place. (¶¶ 6-8; 10.) 
 
            Defendants
contend that the decedent’s medical records, supported by expert medical
opinions, conclusively establish that the decedent’s death was not caused by a
surgical hernia mesh, and, therefore, that Plaintiffs did not have a viable
claim for wrongful death arising from any defects in that mesh. The decedent’s
medical records indicate that she suffered from several life-threatening
conditions, including extreme blockage of both right and left internal carotid
arteries (Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Fact No. 14), a long
history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (SSUMF No. 15) and gross
cirrhosis of the liver. (SSUMF No. 17.) The decedent’s medical records identify
three abdominal surgical procedures during the period alleged in the Complaint:
an August 8, 2008 laparoscopic ventral hernia repair with mesh (SSUMF No. 1);
(2) a laparoscopic gall bladder removal and umbilical hernia repair on August
21, 2014 (SSUMF No. 4); and (3) an August 29, 2015 exploratory laparotomy with
extensive adhesiolysis, removal of the mesh, and repair of a small bowel
obstruction. (SSUMF No. 9.) 
 
Defendants also offer declarations
by medical experts providing opinions about the procedures undertaken and their
impact on the decedent’s health. To analyze the 2014 surgeries, Defendants
offer the declaration of Dr. Kamran Samakar, a board-certified general surgeon and
Director of the Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery program at the Keck School of
Medicine at the University of Southern California. (SSUMF No. 21.) Dr. Samakar
routinely performs hernia repairs and is qualified to offer expert opinion as
to the consequences of such procedures. (Id.) Dr. Samakar offers a
medical opinion that the decedent’s postoperative stroke in August 2014 was
related to carotid artery disease and was in no way related to the use of the
surgical hernia mesh. (SSUMF No. 25.) Defendants also offer the declaration of
Dr. Douglas Runckel, a board-certified anatomical and clinical pathologist who
routinely performs determinations of causes of death from medical records as
part of his practice. (SSUMF No. 26; See Declaration of Douglas Runckel, M.D.
ISO Mot. ¶ 2.) Based on his review of the decedent’s records, Dr. Runckel
categorically states that “this patient’s death was caused by having a stroke,
probably secondary to a clot forming in an area of carotid artery narrowing,
that is caused by atherosclerosis (hardening of the arteries). Surgical mesh
played no role in that fatal medical dynamic.” (SSUMF No. 27; Runckel Decl. ¶
10.) 
 
Defendants have thus offered
evidence, including expert testimony, tending to establish that the decedent’s
death was not caused by a surgical hernia mesh and, therefore, that Plaintiffs
had no viable claim for wrongful death due to a defective surgical product that
was allegedly lost because of a failure to sue within the statute of
limitations. The burden of proof therefore shifts to Plaintiffs to demonstrate
a triable issue of fact in this respect. However, as Plaintiffs have not
responded to this motion, they have failed to carry that burden. The Brown
Defendants are therefore entitled to summary judgment on Plaintiffs’ claims
against them.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
Accordingly, Defendants Baird Allan
Brown and Baird Brown, APC’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.
 
Moving parties to give notice Moving Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  October 22,
2024                                ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.