 Case Number:  21STCV08823    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  22, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV08823




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Samsa Management




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Cleotilde Armando Velasquez



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.      Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment or alternatively, Summary Adjudication; Memorandum of Points and Authorities
2.      Separate Statement of Undisputed Material
Facts
3.      Declaration of Christina S. Karayan
4.      Defendant’s Compendium of Exhibits
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
1.      Plaintiff’s Opposition, Request for Continuance
2.      Declaration of Jennifer Bagosy
 
REPLY PAPERS 
1.      None filed.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 5, 2021, Plaintiff Cleotilde
Armando Velasquez (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Defendants Starkwood, Inc., Samsa Management, Albert H. Gatchalian,
and Does 1 to 20 for general negligence and premises liability that occurred at
3316 Council Street, Los Angeles, California (“Premises”). Plaintiff alleges
that on September 8, 2018, he was injured on the Premises after falling from a
ladder. Plaintiff alleges he was an unlicensed contractor performing services
on the Premises that required a license. (Complaint, 4.) Plaintiff also alleges
that Defendants knew or should have known of a dangerous condition on the
Premises. 
 
Defendant Samsa Management (“Defendant”)
now moves for summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary adjudication,
against Plaintiff arguing that no triable issue of fact exists. Defendant
argues that (1) the claims against it are barred under the Privette Doctrine,
(2) that no exception to Privette applies, and (3) even if Privette does
not apply, there is no evidence that Defendant’s act or omission contributed to
Plaintiff’s injuries. Plaintiff filed an opposition with no separate statement,
requesting a continuance and informing the Court that its counsel seeks to be
relieved. 
 
On February 16, 2024, when
this motion was originally scheduled to be heard, the Court on its own,
continued the hearing on this matter to April 22, 2024. 
 
On March 19, 2024, the Court
granted Plaintiff’s counsels’ motion to be relieved.[1]
On March 27, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel filed a proof of service on Plaintiff of
the order relieving counsel. Plaintiff is currently self-represented and has
not filed anything further regarding this motion.  
 
At the hearing on April 22,
2024, Plaintiff appeared in pro per and represented he was retaining new
counsel and requested a continuance. The Court granted the request over the
objection of Defendant. (Min. Order, 4/22/24.) The Court then continued the
motion to May 22, 2024, and gave Plaintiff leave to file and serve an
opposition fourteen (14) days before the next court date. Since then, no
opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion
that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material fact if,
and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the
underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with
the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie
showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.;
Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474
[summary judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary
adjudication motions].)  Further, in line
with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary
adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as
to the challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no
triable issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay
Cruise Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co.
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the trial court grant summary
judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)                        
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Negligence and Premises Liability
 
The
elements of a cause of action for negligence are: (1) a duty on the part of
defendant toward plaintiff; (2) defendant’s breach of that duty; and (3) harm
to the plaintiff caused by that breach. (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016)
1 Cal.5th 1132, 1142.) The elements of a cause of action for premises
liability are the same as those for negligence: duty, breach, causation, and
damages. (McIntyre v. The Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th
664, 671.) Therefore, to prevail on a
claim for premises liability, Plaintiff must prove: (1) defendant owned or
controlled the subject property; (2) defendant was negligent in the use or
maintenance of the property; (3) plaintiff was harmed; and (4) defendant’s
negligence was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm. (See Rowland
v. Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d 108.)
 
“The owner of premises is under a
duty to exercise ordinary care in the management of such premises in order to
avoid exposing persons to an unreasonable risk of harm.” (Brooks v. Eugene
Burger Management Corp. (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 1611, 1619; see Civil
Code § 1714.)
 
1. WORKERS’ COMPENSATION – EXCLUSIVE REMEDY 
 
Under Labor Code section 3602, “[w]here the conditions of
compensation set forth in Section 3600 concur, the right to recover
compensation is, except as specifically provided in this section and Sections
3706 and 4558, the sole and exclusive remedy of the employee or his or her
dependents against the employer.” (Lab. Code, § 3602, subd. (a).) 
 
2. PRESUMPTION
OF EMPLOYEE STATUS 
 
In Privette v. Superior Court, the California
Supreme Court affirmed that “[u]nder the Workers' Compensation Act, all
employees are automatically entitled to recover benefits for injuries “arising
out of and¿in the course of the employment,” and that “[w]hen the conditions of
compensation exist, recovery under the workers' compensation scheme “is the
exclusive remedy against an employer for injury or death of an employee.” (Privette
v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 689, 697.) Labor Code section 2750.5 provides
“[t]here is a rebuttable presumption affecting the burden of proof that a
worker performing services for which a license is required… or who is
performing such services for a person who is required to obtain such a license
is an employee rather than an independent contractor.” Additionally,
“any person performing any function or activity for which a license is required
pursuant to Chapter 9 [commencing with Section 7000] of Division 3 of the
Business and Professions Code shall hold a valid contractors' license as a
condition of having independent contractor status.” (Lab. Code § 2750.5.) 
 
The
language of section 2750.5 could not be clearer. The plain meaning of the
penultimate paragraph of section 2750.5 conditions a finding of independent
contractor status as to a person performing services for which a contractor's
license is required upon possession by that person of a valid license. By
stating that a license is a condition of the status, the Legislature has
unequivocally stated that the person lacking the requisite license may not be
an independent contractor. Thus, if one performs work on a construction job for
which a license is required, without holding a valid license, one is by
definition an employee, not an independent contractor, pursuant to section
2750.5. 
 
(Neighbours v. Buzz Oates Enterprises (1990) 217
Cal.App.3d 325, 330 [cleaned up].) Further, “[u]nder the plain meaning of
section 2750.5, any unlicensed subcontractor is the employee of the general
contractor; consequently, as a matter of law, the employee of an unlicensed
subcontractor is the employee of the principal contractor.” (Ibid.) “The
rule of workers’ compensation exclusivity, which shields an independent
contractor who pays workers’ compensation insurance premiums from further
liability to its employee, should equally apply to the person hiring the
contractor because the hirer has indirectly paid the cost of such coverage
inasmuch as it was presumably calculated into the contract price.” (Camargo
v. Tjaarda Dairy (2001) 25 Cal.4th 1235, 1244 [Privette/ Toland bars
an employee of an independent contractor from bringing a negligent hiring
action against the hirer of the contractor].) 
 
However, under section 7048 of the Business and Professions Code
(under Chapter 9 of Division 3), the chapter “does not apply to any work or
operation on one undertaking or project by one or more contracts, the aggregate
contract price which for labor, materials, and all other items, is less than
five hundred dollars ($500), that work or operations being considered of
casual, minor, or inconsequential nature.”  Therefore, people who fall under section 7048
and are operating without a license, would not be considered employees under
Labor Code section 2750.5. 
 
3. PRIVETTE DOCTRINE
 
Ordinarily, the person hiring an independent contractor is
not liable to the contractor's employees for workplace injuries.  The
independent contractor's employer's liability for such injuries is limited by
workers' compensation, as is the liability of the party who hired the
contractor.  (Privette v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 689, 693,
700-02; Camargo v. Tjaarda Dairy (2001) 25 Cal.4th 1235, 1244-1245; Toland
v. Sunland Housing Group, Inc. (1998) 18 Cal.4th 253, 264-70.) 
 
The Supreme Court has held that it would be unfair to
impose liability on the hiring person when the liability of the contractor, the
one primarily responsible for its worker’s on-the-job injuries, is limited to
providing workers’ compensation coverage.  As such, even if there is
evidence that the hirer was directly liable for the plaintiff’s injuries,
recovery is not available under the peculiar risk doctrine.  (Privette,
supra, 5 Cal.4th at 693, 700-02.) 
 
Workers’
compensation “ ‘is the exclusive remedy against an employer for injury or
death of an employee.’ [Citation.]” … In Privette, the Supreme Court
held that “an independent contractor’s employee should not be allowed to
recover damages from the contractor’s hirer, who ‘is indirectly paying for the
cost of [workers’ compensation] coverage, which the [hired] contractor
presumably has calculated into the contract price.’ [Citation.]”
[Citation.]  
 
The
Privette holding was based on the principle that the hirer of an independent
contractor generally has “
‘ “ ‘no right of control as to the mode of
doing the work contracted for.’ ” ’ ” [Citation.] Precisely because the hirer
“has no obligation to specify the precautions an independent hired contractor
should take for the safety of the contractor’s employees, ... [a]bsent an obligation, there
can be no liability in tort.” [Citation.]  
 
(Alvarez v. Seaside Transportation Services LLC
(2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 635, 640.)  Moreover, “[t]he Privette line of
decisions establishes a presumption that an independent contractor’s hirer
‘delegates to that contractor its tort law duty to provide a safe workplace for
the contractor’s employees.’ [Citation.]”  (Id. at 642.)  
 
a. Exceptions to the Privette Doctrine
“At common law, a person who hired an independent
contractor generally was not liable to third parties for injuries caused by the
contractor's negligence in performing the work.” (Privette v. Superior Court
(1993) 5 Cal.4th 689, 693 (hereafter Privette.) “Central to this rule of
nonliability was the recognition that a person who hired an independent
contractor had no right of control as to the mode of doing the work contracted
for.” (Ibid.) 
Subsequently, in Gonzalez v. Mathis, the California
Supreme Court revisited the Privette doctrine and the exceptions to the
doctrine.
There is a strong presumption under California law that a
hirer of an independent contractor delegates to the contractor all
responsibility for workplace safety. This means that a hirer is typically not
liable for injuries sustained by an independent contractor or its workers while
on the job. Commonly referred to as the Privette doctrine, the
presumption originally stemmed from the following rationales: First, hirers
usually have no right to control an independent contractor's work. Second,
contractors can factor in the cost of safety precautions and insurance coverage
in the contract price. Third, contractors are able to obtain workers’
compensation to cover any on-the-job injuries. Finally, contractors are
typically hired for their expertise, which enables them to perform the
contracted-for work safely and successfully.
We have nevertheless identified two limited circumstances
in which the presumption is overcome. First, in Hooker v. Department of
Transportation (2002) 27 Cal.4th 198, 115 Cal.Rptr.2d 853, 38 P.3d 1081 (Hooker),
we held that a hirer may be liable when it retains control over any part of the
independent contractor's work and negligently exercises that retained control
in a manner that affirmatively contributes to the worker's injury. Second, in Kinsman
v. Unocal Corp. (2005) 37 Cal.4th 659, 36 Cal.Rptr.3d 495, 123 P.3d 931 (Kinsman),
we held that a landowner who hires an independent contractor may be liable if
the landowner knew, or should have known, of a concealed hazard on the property
that the contractor did not know of and could not have reasonably discovered,
and the landowner failed to warn the contractor of the hazard.
(Gonzalez
v. Mathis (2021) 12 Cal.5th 29, 37–38 [cleaned up].) 
4. Analysis
 
Here, Defendant argues that even
though Plaintiff alleges he was an unlicensed contract worker, he was not an
employee because Business and Professions Code section 7048 applies. 
 
Defendant offers the following
facts:
 
-         
The incident occurred while Plaintiff was installing
window screens at the property located at 3316 Council Street, Los Angeles, CA
90003. (UMF 9.) 
-         
At the time of the incident he was employed and/or
working for Baten Windows. (UMF 10.) 
-         
He went to the property on two occasions. (UMF 15.)
-         
The first time he was at the property, he was changing
out broken glass. (UMF 16.) 
-         
This was approximately one month before the incident.
(UMF 17.) 
-         
The second time he was at the property, he was there to
change screens. (UMF 18.) 
-         
When he was there to change the screens, it was a
separate order and completely unrelated job to the first visit. (UMF 19.) 
-         
Defendant Samsa hired Baten Windows at various times
throughout the years to perform work at the property. (UMF 20.) 
-         
Baten Windows charged the total sum of $465 for
replacement of the window screens pursuant to Invoice Number 628. (UMF 22.) 
-         
Defendants paid the sum of $465 for the work on
September 14, 2018. (UMF 23.) 
 
Defendant has met its initial burden to show that there are
no triable issues of material fact that Plaintiff was an employee, due to
Business and Professions Code section 7048. Plaintiff does not set forth any
facts to show a triable issue of material fact that Plaintiff was an employee
or that any Privette exceptions apply.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendant Samsa Management’s Motion
for Summary Judgment/Adjudication is GRANTED. 
 
            Defendant
shall give notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.


