 Case Number:  21STCV28134    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  22, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV28134




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Leave to File a Cross-Complaint and Request to Continue Trial




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Uber Technologies, Inc. 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiffs
  Kenny Reese and Michele Bias and Defendants Adrienne Lombard and Cynthia
  Lombard



 
BACKGROUND
 
On
July 30, 2021, Plaintiffs Kenny Reese and Michele Bias
(“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Defendants Uber Technologies, Inc.,
John Doe, Adrienne Lombard, Cynthia Lombard, and Does 1 to 50 for negligence
relating to a motor vehicle accident. 
 
On September 26, 2022, Uber Technologies, Inc. (“Uber”) filed an
answer. 
 
Uber now moves for leave to file a cross-complaint against Defendants
Adrienne Lombard and Cynthia Lombard (“Lombard Defendants”). Uber also requests
a trial continuance. Plaintiffs and Lombard Defendants oppose,[1]
and Uber replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the
initial complaint or cross-complaint against the cross-complainant must be
filed before or at the same time as the answer to the initial complaint or
cross-complaint, which answer must be filed within 30 days of service of the
complaint or cross-complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 412.20(a)(3),
428.50(a), 432.10.)  Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any time
before the court has set a trial date.  (Code Civ. Proc.
§428.50(b).)   
 
If a party fails to file a cross-complaint within the time
limits described above, he or she must obtain permission from the court to file
the cross-complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 426.50, 428.50(c).)  Leave
to file a mandatory cross-complaint must be granted absent bad faith. (Silver
Organizations, Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 99.)  Leave to
file a permissive cross-complaint need only be granted in the interest of
justice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50(c).) The
court must grant leave to file a mandatory cross-complaint so long as the defendant
is acting in good faith.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50.) 
 
A
party against whom a cause of action has been asserted in a complaint may file
a cross complaint setting forth “[a]ny cause of action he has against a person
alleged to be liable thereon, whether or not such person is already a party to
the action, if the cause of action asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises
out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or
occurrences as the cause brought against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or
interest in the property or controversy which is the subject of the cause
brought against him.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 428.10(b).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
As an initial matter, the proposed
cross complaint is not compulsory since it is not asserted against Plaintiffs,
but rather the Lombard co-defendants. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 428.50(a).) The
proposed cross-complaint asserts the following causes of action against the
Lombard Defendants: negligence, equitable indemnity, contribution and
apportionment of fault, and declaratory relief. (Teas Decl. ¶ 25, Exh. A.) The
cross-complaint pertains to the subject vehicle accident in Plaintiffs’
complaint. Therefore, it arises out of the same occurrence. 
 
Uber is seeking leave to file this
cross complaint because the Lombard Defendants settled with Plaintiffs before
this litigation and thus, never appeared in this action, and have not participated
in discovery.[2] Uber
appears to file the cross complaint so that the Lombards may be subject to
discovery in the future. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue Uber
was dilatory in bringing this motion. The Lombard Defendants contend that on
March 14, 2024, Cynthia Lombard served responses to Uber’s written discovery,
Uber deposed Adrienne Lombard on August 10, 2023, and noticed Cynthia Lombard’s
deposition for May 24, 2024. (Fassonaki Decl. ¶¶ 3–4.) Therefore, it appears
some voluntary discovery has taken place. The Lombard Defendants also ask the
Court to continue this motion to be heard in conjunction with their motion to
determine good faith settlement, scheduled for July 3, 2024. 
 
Here, allowing leave to file the
cross complaint is in the interest of justice since Uber contends that the
Lombards are responsible for the majority of Plaintiffs’ injuries. Plaintiffs
were allegedly passengers in an Uber vehicle when the Lombards’ vehicle backed
into them. The Court declines to continue the instant motion, finding it will
only result in further delays. Additionally, Plaintiffs and the Lombard
Defendants fail to show they were prejudiced by the delay in filing this motion
for cross-complaint. Therefore, the motion for leave to file the
cross-complaint is granted. 
 
Uber also separately moves to
continue trial. 
 
Legal Standard 
 
¿“Continuances are granted only on an affirmative showing
of good cause requiring a continuance.”¿ (In re Marriage of Falcone &
Fyke (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 814, 823.)¿ A trial court has broad discretion
in considering a request for a trial continuance.¿ (Pham v. Nguyen
(1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 11, 13-18.)¿ California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 sets
forth factors for the Court to consider in ruling on a motion to continue
trial.¿ 
 
“To ensure the prompt disposition
of civil cases, the dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their
counsel must regard the date set for trial as certain.” (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1332(a).)  
 
“A party seeking a continuance of
the date set for trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by
the parties, must make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an
ex parte application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with
supporting declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon
as reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered.”
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(b).) 
 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include: 
 
1.     
The unavailability of an
essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
2.     
The unavailability of a party
because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; 
3.     
The unavailability of trial
counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;  
4.     
The substitution of trial
counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution
is required in the interests of justice; 
5.     
The addition of a new party
if: 
A. The new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or 
B. The other parties have not had a reasonable opportunity
to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to the new party’s
involvement in the case; 
6.     
A party’s excused inability
to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite
diligent efforts; or 
7.     
A significant, unanticipated
change in the status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for
trial.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).) 
 
“In ruling on a motion or application for continuance, the
court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to the
determination. These may include: 
 
1.     
The proximity of the trial
date; 
2.     
Whether there was any
previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party; 
3.     
The length of the continuance
requested; 
4.     
The availability of
alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or
application for a continuance; 
5.     
The prejudice that parties or
witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; 
6.     
If the case is entitled to a
preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
7.     
The court’s calendar and the impact
of granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
8.     
Whether trial counsel is
engaged in another trial; 
9.     
Whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance; 
10.    
Whether the interests of
justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by
imposing conditions on the continuance; and 
11.    
Any other fact or
circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application. 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).) 
 
Analysis
 
Uber seeks to continue trial and
all related dates from August 19, 2024 to November 18, 2024. Uber argues it
needs more time to conduct discovery, noting that co-defendant Aguilar was
served in August 2023, and Cynthia Lombard’s deposition will be taken on May
24, 2024. However, even with the filing of the cross-complaint, it appears Uber
has conducted some discovery with the Lombard defendants. (See Reply, 4.) Therefore,
Uber fails to show that it requires additional time. The Court notes that there
is still roughly two months to conduct discovery and Uber first appeared in
this action on September 26, 2022. As a result, the request for a continuance
is denied. 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS in part the Motion for Leave to File
a Cross-Complaint and Request to Continue Trial. Uber is ordered to file and serve its proposed cross-complaint within ten (10)
days of the date of this Order. The request for a trial continuance is denied. 
 
Moving party shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of
service of such.
 


