 Case Number:  22STCV16190    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  22, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV16190




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to be Relieved as Counsel




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Trenna Jones’s Counsel




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
BACKGROUND
 
            Plaintiff
Trenna Jones’s (Plaintiff) counsel of
record, Devin A. Cutting/Bish & Cutting, APC (Counsel), moves to be
relieved as counsel for Plaintiff. Counsel contends relief is necessary because
there has been a breakdown in the attorney-client relationship. 
 
            No
opposition has been filed for this motion. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
To be granted relief as counsel, counsel must comply with California
Rules of Court (CRC) 3.1362. Even where grounds for termination exist,
attorneys seeking to withdraw must comply with the procedures set forth in
California Rule of Professional Conduct (CRPC) 3.700 and are subject to
discipline for failure to do so. CRPC 3.700(B) lists various grounds for
mandatory withdrawal. 
 
An attorney's right to terminate the attorney-client relationship and
withdraw from a case is not absolute. (See Vann v. Shilleh (1975) 54
Cal.App.3d 192, 197; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398.) The
decision whether to grant or deny an application for withdrawal is within the
court's discretion, and it does not abuse that discretion by denying the
application on the ground that the attorney's withdrawal would work injustice
upon a third party. (Hodcarriers, Bldg. and Common Laborers Local Union No.
89 v. Miller (1966) 243 Cal.App.2d 391.)
 
The rules have been liberally construed to protect clients. (Vann
v. Shilleh, supra, 54 Cal.App.3d 192.) An attorney, either with client's
consent or court's approval, may withdraw from a case when withdrawal can be
accomplished without undue prejudice to client's interests; however, an
attorney “shall not withdraw from employment until the member has taken
reasonable steps to avoid reasonably foreseeable prejudice to the rights of the
client, including giving due notice to the client, allowing time for employment
of other counsel, complying with rule 3-700(D), and complying with applicable
laws and rules.” (CRPC 3.700(A)(2).) A lawyer violates his or her ethical
mandate by abandoning a client (Pineda v. State Bar (1989) 49 Cal.3d
753, 758 759), or by withdrawing at a critical point and thereby prejudicing
the client’s case. (CRPC 3.700(A)(2); Vann v. Shilleh, supra.)
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Counsel has filed forms MC-051 and
MC-052 and has lodged with the Court a copy of the proposed order on form
MC-053 as required.  (Cal Rules of Court,
rule 3.1362.)  Counsel states the instant
motion is filed for the following reason: “From the time this firm was retained
by Plaintiff, I have faithfully and to the best of my ability represented
Plaintiff in this action. The attorney-client relationship has been undermined
by differences between my firm and the Plaintiff, and I am unable to fulfill my
duties as an officer of the Court as a representative of Plaintiff in this case
in light of these differences and resultant deterioration of the
attorney-client relationship. I decline to be more specific so as to not
prejudice Plaintiff's case, but am willing to offer further details at the time
of hearing on this matter if necessary.”
(MC-052.) The Court finds that this is a valid reason for withdrawal. (See Rules
Prof. Conduct, rule 1.16(b)(4).)¿¿¿ 
 
            Counsel has provided information for
all future proceedings in this case and served notice to all parties in the
matter. The Court previously denied this motion because it was possible that
relieving counsel close to the trial date would prejudice Plaintiff’s rights.
(3/5/24.) Now, trial is currently scheduled for October 15, 2024. Since trial
has been continued, the Court no longer finds that Plaintiff would be
prejudiced.
 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS the motion to relieve
counsel.  
 
Counsel shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file
proofs of service of such. 
 
 
 
 
 