 Case Number:  22STCV24609    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


May
  22, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV24609




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel the Deposition of Defendant’s Person Most Knowledgeable and
  Production of Documents 




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Carlos Vitro   




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Ralphs Grocery Company 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
 
Plaintiff Carlos Vitro (“Plaintiff”) now moves to compel Defendant Ralphs
Grocery Company’s (“Defendant”) deposition of its Person Most Knowledgeable
(“PMK”) and request for production. Plaintiff also seeks monetary sanctions.
Defendant opposes. No reply has been filed.
 
On May 10, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s ex parte application
and continued trial from May 29, 2024 to August 1, 2024. All discovery and
pre-trial motion cut off dates are associated with the previous trial date.
(Min. Order, 5/10/24.) 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Any party may obtain discovery,
subject to restrictions, by taking the oral deposition of any person, including
any party to the action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) A properly served
deposition notice is effective to require a party or party-affiliated deponent
to attend and to testify, as well as to produce documents for inspection and
copying. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280, subd. (a).) 
 
“If the deponent named is not a
natural person, the deposition notice shall describe with reasonable
particularity the matters on which examination is requested. In that event, the
deponent shall designate and produce at the deposition those of its officers,
directors, managing agents, employees, or agents who are most qualified to
testify on its behalf as to those matters to the extent of any information
known or reasonably available to the deponent.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.230.) 
 
The party served with a deposition
notice waives any error or irregularity unless that party promptly serves a
written objection at least three calendar days prior to the date for which the
deposition is scheduled. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (a).) In addition
to serving this written objection, a party may also move for an order staying
the taking of the deposition and quashing the deposition notice. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (c).) 
 
“If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party . . . without having served a valid objection under Section
2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce
for inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party
giving notice may move for an order compelling deponent’s attendance and
testimony, and the production . . . of any document . . . described in the
deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) If a motion is granted, the court
shall impose a monetary sanction in favor of that party unless the court finds
that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or
that other circumstances make the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450
(g).
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of H. Dean Aynechi, Plaintiff’s counsel, describes a
meet and confer effort that took place to determine if Defendant would provide
a PMK for all topics in the notice. (Aynechi Decl. ¶¶ 15– 28.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
This case arises out of an alleged slip and fall at a grocery store.
On January 8, 2024, Plaintiff served the fourth amended (most recent)
deposition notice for Defendant’s PMK, set for January 25, 2024. (Aynechi Decl.
¶ 16, Exh. 6.) The notice set forth 14 topics for deposition. On January 18,
2024, Defendant served an objection to the notice. (Id. ¶ 26, Exh. 7.) Plaintiff
contends that Defendant refuses to produce a PMK for three topics. 
 
Plaintiff now moves to compel Defendant to produce PMKs for all 14
topics, arguing the objections to the three topics lack merit. 
 
In opposition, Defendant concedes it agreed to produce PMKs for 11 of
the 14 topics. (Opp., 2.) The topics at issue are: #6 employees that warned
Plaintiff prior to the incident; #7 employees who witnessed the incident; and
#13 any and all prior complaints similar to this incident during the 2-years
preceding this incident. As to topic #6, Defendant states it cannot produce a
PMK because it asserts that no warning was given. As to topic #7, Defendant
asserts no employee witnessed the incident. And regarding topic #13, Defendant
asserts there were no similar incidents in the past two years. (Opp., 3.) 
 
However,
the discovery motion cut-off in this case is closed. Any party shall be
entitled as a matter of right to complete discovery proceedings on or before
the 30th day, and to have motions concerning discovery heard before
the 15th day, before the date initially set for the trial of the
action. (Code Civ. Proc.§ 2024.020 (a).)¿A trial court abuses its discretion in
hearing a discovery motion past the deadlines in Code of Civil Procedure
section 2024.020 when it does not require the party to file a motion for leave
to reopen discovery under section 2024.050. (Pelton-Shepherd Industries,
Inc. v. Delta Packaging Products, Inc.¿(2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1568, 1588.)¿¿
 
            Here, the discovery cut-offs are
associated with the previous trial date of May 29, 2024. (Min. Order, 5/10/24.)
Therefore, the last day to hear a discovery hearing was May 14, 2024. Since
this motion to compel a deposition is being heard on May 22, 2024, it is
untimely. Plaintiff has not moved to reopen discovery in this motion and has
not discussed section 2024.050. Therefore, the motion to compel is denied. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
motion to Compel the Deposition of Defendant’s Person Most Knowledgeable and
Production of Documents is DENIED. 
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 