 Case Number:  24VECV00152    Hearing Date:   October 14, 2024    Dept:  T 24VECV00152 AARON ROSEN DBA
RA CONSTRUCTION vs DAVID MALKA
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant David Malka’s Demurrer to the First
Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND only as to the fourth
cause of action and otherwise OVERRULED. 
Defendant David Malka is ORDERED to file an Answer to the First Amended
Complaint within 20 days.
Introduction 
Defendant David Malka (Defendant)
demurred to Plaintiff Aaron Rosen’s (Plaintiff) First Amended Complaint
(FAC).  The demurrer placed into issue
the first cause of action (COA) for breach of oral contract, the second COA for
common counts, the third COA for account stated, the fourth COA for unjust
enrichment, and the fifth COA for promissory fraud.
Discussion 
Defendant argued that the first
COA for breach of oral contract, the second COA for common counts, and the
third COA for account stated are barred by the Statute of Frauds (SOF).  (Civ. Code, sec. 1624(a)(2).)  Defendant asserted that the contract is
actually a special promise to answer for the debt of another – the suretyship
provision of the statute.  Defendant
argued that he is the surety of the contracting party, Van Nuys Lofts, LLC
(VNL).  However, the argument is
dependent upon a fact not alleged in the FAC. 
The argument presumes that Defendant is a surety (i.e., Plaintiff
provided no consideration for Defendant’s promise to pay for VNL’s debt.)  Defendant’s SOF argument misconstrues the
allegations in the FAC.  Plaintiff
expressly alleged that the consideration, in exchange for Defendant’s promise
to pay $100,000.00 personally, was to forebear Plaintiff’s right to record a
mechanic’s lien.  (FAC pars. 9-14.)  Because Plaintiff did not allege that
Defendant solely made a special promise to pay the debt of VNL, sans any
consideration given by Plaintiff, the claim is outside the scope of the SOF
suretyship provision.  Defendant’s SOF
argument is unpersuasive.
The demurrer to the first,
second, and third COAs is OVERRULED.
As to the fourth COA for unjust
enrichment, Defendant argues that the COA is not a recognized COA but a
remedy.  (Jogani v. Superior Court (2008)
165 Cal.App.4th 901, 911;  Melchior v.
New Line Productions, Inc. (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 779, 794;   McBride v. Boughton (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th
379, 387.)  The Court finds the argument
and the supportive legal authority persuasive over Plaintiff’s legal
authority.  
The demurrer to the fourth COA is
SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
Defendant asserted that the fifth
COA for promissory fraud failed to plead particular and specific facts.  Defendant asserted that the COA fails to
allege specific facts to plead the false promise, the date of the false
promise, where the false promise was made, and to whom it was made.  However, the argument ignores the allegations
and exhibits attached to the FAC. 
Plaintiff expressly alleged that the false promise was the promise to
pay $100,000.00 to Plaintiff via text message on March 23, 2022.  (FAC par. 27 and Exh. A.)  The factual allegations are specific and
particular.  Defendant’s argument is not
persuasive.
The demurrer to the fifth COA is
OVERRULED.  
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.