 Case Number:  23VECV04806    Hearing Date:   October 14, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV04806 TONY ROBERT
TAWIL vs GALPIN MOTORS
[TENTATIVE] ORDER: 
Defendant Galpin Motors, Inc.’s Demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint is
OVERRULED. Answer shall be served within 10 days.
Defendant Galpin Motors, Inc.’s
Motion to Strike Portions of the Second Amended Complaint is DENIED.
Introduction
Defendant Galpin Motors, Inc.
(Defendant) demurred to Plaintiff Tony Robert Tawil’s (Plaintiff) Second
Amended Complaint (SAC).  Defendant’s demurrer placed into issue the first
cause of action (COA) for fraud and deceit.  Defendant concurrently moved
to strike the request for punitive damages.    
           
Discussion
Defendant argued that the fraud
COA failed to allege sufficient facts because the allegations fail to plead the
element of justifiable reliance.  This pleading element was raised as an
issue in the prior demurrer to the original Complaint and the First Amended
Complaint (FAC).  The alleged misrepresentations included: (1) false
advertising of the purchase price; (2) all dealers were making up the price;
and (3) inclusion of an optional theft deterrent device.  Plaintiff
expressly alleged reasonable and justifiable reliance upon the
representations.  (SAC pars. 38 and 63(3).)  Defendant argued, as it
previously did in the prior demurrers, that there are insufficient facts to
allege justifiable reliance regarding Defendant’s assurance that Plaintiff
could not get a lower price or the advertised price of $47,975.00 at any other
dealership because all dealers were charging the additional markup
charges.  (SAC pars. 23, 24, 59.a., and 63.)  Defendant argued that
the statement was merely puffery and not a representation of fact. 
However, puffery or opinion is defined as an expression of a belief (rather
than a certainty) that a fact exists or offers the speaker’s own view on a
matter of judgment, such as an item’s quality, value, or authenticity. 
(Hauter v. Zogarts (1975) 14 Cal.3d 104, 111-113; Graham v. Bank of America,
N.A. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 606-607.)  Here the statement is broad –
all dealers charge an additional markup.  The statement does not indicate
a subjective opinion about the state of the market but a fact as to 
market conditions.  The Court does not agree with Defendant’s contention
that the statement is vague or generalized.  Further, disputes as to
veracity of the statement because the statement was outrageous or improbable
exaggeration is not proper grounds for a demurrer.  Factual allegations,
no matter how unlikely or improbable, are deemed true for the demurrer
stage. 
Defendant then disputes that
their employees could not have known what other dealerships were charging
and/or that Defendant did not have any superior knowledge of the market
conditions.  However, the argument is based upon an assumption that is not
a fact allegation within the four corners of the pleading.  The SAC does
not allege that Defendant’s employees did not have knowledge.  In fact,
Plaintiff is alleging that Defendant had superior knowledge of the market
conditions.  Defendant’s argument is a dispute over the veracity of the
factual allegation and is improper for a demurrer.  The improbability of
truth as to the fact allegation is not proper grounds for a demurrer.
Defendant then argued that the
terms of the Retail Installment Sales Contract (RISC) contradicts the pleading
element of justifiable reliance regarding the optional nature of the $695.00
theft deterrent device.  This argument was reviewed at the prior
demurrers.  The Court found the argument persuasive.  However, the
pleading defect as to one of the claims under the fraud COA is insufficient to
sustain the demurrer as to the entire fraud COA.  A general demurrer does
not lie to only part of a cause of action.  Because the claim as to the
misrepresentation regarding the mark up by all dealership survives the
demurrer, the COA cannot be dismissed by way of demurrer.
The demurrer to the first COA is
OVERRULED.
Defendant moved to strike the
request for punitive damages.  Defendant argued that the request failed to
plead facts to support malice, oppression, or fraud.  However, with the
SAC sufficiently pleading the first COA for fraud, there is sufficient pleading
to support the fraud element for punitive damages.  As reviewed in the
demurrer, the FAC sufficiently alleged specific facts to support the fraud
COA. 
The elements of malice,
oppression, or fraud in the statute are listed in the disjunctive. 
Plaintiff need not plead facts to allege malice/despicable conduct or
oppression when fraud is the grounds alleged to support the request for
punitive damages.  Defendant’s arguments as to punitive damages is
unpersuasive.
The motion to strike punitive
damages is DENIED. 
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.