  Case Number:  19STCV36287    Hearing Date:   October 14, 2024    Dept:  T 19STCV36287 BORIS
TADEVOSYAN vs LAWRENCE A. WOLFF, D.D.S,
TENTATIVE] ORDER: 
Defendants Lawrence Wolff and Lawrence A. Wolff, DDS, Inc.’s Motion to
Bifurcate the Statute of Limitations issue is GRANTED.
Introduction
Defendants Lawrence Wolf, DDS and
Lawrence A. Wolf, DDS, Inc. (collectively, Defendants) moved to bifurcate the
issue of statute of limitations (SOL) defense.  Plaintiff Boris Tadevosyan
(Plaintiff) opposed the motion.  A reply was due October 7, 2024, and none
was filed.
Discussion
Upon a noticed motion, a separate
trial, before any other issues, as to a SOL defense is mandatory in dental
malpractice cases.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 597.5.)  Defendants’
Answer alleged as the third Affirmative Defense an SOL defense. 
Defendants sufficiently requested bifurcation in the instant motion. 
Defendants met their burden to show that bifurcation is mandatory.
The Court noted that Defendant’s
motion also argued that the SOL defense has merit and cited to facts/evidence
to support the contention.  However, the merits of the SOL defense is
not a proper issue for a 597.5 motion.  All that is to be determined
in the instant motion is whether the issue should be bifurcated and tried
first.  As stated above, there is sufficient showing to bifurcate the
affirmative defense.  Because the merits of the defense are not at
issue in the instant motion, Defendant’s argument asserting the validity of the
SOL defense, as well as Plaintiff Opposition’s argument disputing the validity
or merits of the SOL defense, are irrelevant.  The merits, or lack
thereof, of the SOL defense is not considered and not sufficient grounds to
deny the motion.
Plaintiff argued that bifurcation
will not result in greater judicial economy.  However, serving judicial
economy is not a ground considered in a Section 597.5 motion.  Plaintiff’s
citation to Section 598 is irrelevant, especially because Plaintiff failed to
present legal authority to show that the Court is required to review judicial
economy interest when reviewing a Section 597.5 motion. 
Plaintiff then argued that the
SOL defense was previously ruled upon by the Court in a prior Motion for
Summary Judgment (MSJ) filed by Defendants. Plaintiff is incorrect and
misunderstands the ruling from the Court of Appeal.  The Trial Court
granted the MSJ but a subsequent Court of Appeal review reversed the
granting of the MSJ.  Plaintiff argued that the opinion has res
judicata effect on the SOL defense.  However, Plaintiff’s argument reads
too much into the Court of Appeal opinion.  The opinion did not make any
opinion as to the merits of the SOL defense.  The reversal of the
granting of the MSJ only provided that a triable issue of fact exists as to
the SOL defense and that the MSJ should have been denied by the trial court. 
The merits of the SOL defense will be determined at trial by the trier of
fact.  Denial of an MSJ based on a statute of limitations issue does not
conclusively resolve the matter at a subsequent trial. An order denying an MSJ
only determines if there is a triable issue of fact and it is for a judge
or jury to decide the merits at a trial.  (Jumaane v. City of Los Angeles
(2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 1390, 1401.)  Plaintiff’s argument as to res
judicata effect based upon the reversal of the MSJ ruling is unpersuasive and misstates
the law.
The motion to bifurcate is
GRANTED.  Trial of the Statute of Limitations will be tried first.
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.