  Case Number:  18STCV04752    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  49 Kurt Knutsson, et al. v. Judith Salkow Shapiro, et al.DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO BIFURCATE MOVING PARTIES: Defendant Judith Salkow Shapiro, APC and Defendant San Pasqual Fiduciary Trust CompanyRESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs Kurt Knutsson and Woojivas, Inc.STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: Plaintiffs Kurt Knutsson and Woojivas, Inc. bring this suit against the law corporation of their deceased former lawyer, Judith Salkow Shapiro, for legal malpractice and fraud in the handling of an underlying employment and right of publicity action against KTLA, Local TV, and other television stations.  The operative Second Amended Complaint asserts causes of action for (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Professional Negligence/Legal Malpractice, (3) Fraud and Deceit, (4) Negligent Misrepresentation, and (5) Breach of Fiduciary Duty.  Defendant Judith Salkow Shapiro, APC and Defendant San Pasqual Fiduciary Trust Company now move to bifurcate trial on the affirmative statute of limitation defense before trial of any other issues. Plaintiffs opposed.TENTATIVE RULING:Defendants’ Motion to Bifurcate is GRANTED.Moving parties to give notice.DISCUSSION:Defendants’ Motion to BifurcateI. Legal StandardUnder Code of Civil Procedure section 597, “[w]hen the answer pleads that the action is barred by the statute of limitations…the court may, either upon its own motion or upon the motion of any party, proceed to the trial of the special defense or defenses before the trial of any other issue in the case, and if the decision of the court, or the verdict of the jury, upon any special defense so tried (other than the defense of another action pending) is in favor of the defendant pleading the same, judgment for the defendant shall thereupon be entered and no trial of other issues in the action shall be had unless that judgment shall be reversed on appeal or otherwise set aside or vacated…”Similarly, under section 598, “[t]he court may, when the convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or the economy and efficiency of handling the litigation would be promoted thereby, on motion of a party, after notice and hearing, make an order . . . that the trial of any issue or any part thereof shall precede the trial of any other issue or any part thereof in the case . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 598.) “The court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a separate trial of any cause of action, including a cause of action asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any number of causes of action or issues . . . .” (Id., § 1048, subd. (b).) “It is within the discretion of the court to bifurcate issues or order separate trials of actions . . . and to determine the order in which those issues are to be decided.” (Royal Surplus Lines Ins. Co. v. Ranger Ins. Co. (2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 193, 205.)II. AnalysisWhen ruling on Defendants’ motion for summary judgment, this court found a triable issue of material fact as to the application of Code of Civil Procedure section 340.6, subsection (a)(2)’s “continuous representation” tolling. (See 12/14/23 Final Ruling.)  Defendants now move this Court for an order bifurcating trial on the affirmative statute of limitation defense before trial of any other issue in the case.As Plaintiffs note, section 340.6(a)’s one-year statute of limitations applies to claims against an attorney “other than for actual fraud.” (§ 340.6(a).) Plaintiffs argue, therefore, that the one-year statute of limitations does not apply to their fraud-based claims.  However, in Lee v. Hanley, the California Supreme Court held that “section 340.6(a)'s time bar applies to claims whose merits necessarily depend on proof that an attorney violated a professional obligation in the course of providing professional services.” (Lee v. Hanley (2015) 61 Cal. 4th 1225, 1236–37.) “Thus, while section 340.6(a) applies to claims other than strictly professional negligence claims, it does not apply to claims that do not depend on proof that the attorney violated a professional obligation.” (Id.) In the Second Amended Complaint, Plaintiffs Kurt Knutsson and Woojivas, Inc., allege Defendants “failed to obtain the learning or skill necessary to evaluate the claim they included for violation of California Civil Code Section 3344 (Use of Another’s Name, Voice, Signature, Photograph or Likeness in Advertising or Soliciting Without Prior Consent), nor did they associate with competent counsel or refer the matter to other counsel with sufficient learning and skill to evaluate such a claim.” (SAC ¶ 22.) Following an appeal, Plaintiffs “were ordered to pay attorneys’ fees to Local TV, LLC in the sum of $327,171.00 plus post judgment interest of 10% per annum, which required Plaintiffs to obtain litigation financing that required them to give up a substantial percentage of their ultimate recovery in the underlying litigation.” (Id. ¶ 32.) Here, the “gravamen” of Plaintiffs’ causes of action is that Defendant Shapiro lacked the skills or knowledge to effectively litigate Plaintiffs’ right of publicity claims against KTLA in the underlying lawsuit. (SAC ¶¶ 28, 40, 46, 54, 57, 69.) These facts are the same for the fraud-based claims, but transmuted and artfully pled to allege that Defendant Shapiro concealed her lack of knowledge. (Id. ¶¶ 54, 57, 69.) “It is widely understood that a plaintiff is not permitted to evade a statute of limitations by artful pleading that labels a cause of action one thing while actually stating another. California courts therefore look to the gravamen of the cause of action.” (Thomson v. Canyon (2011) 198 Cal. App. 4th 594, 606.) Therefore, a one-year statute of limitations applies to all claims in this action. This conclusion is consistent with this court’s (Judge Stuart Rice) previous Ruling on Defendants’ Motion for Judgment on Pleadings to the First Amended Complaint, where the Court determined that a one-year statute of limitations applied to all claims. (See 06/21/2021 Ruling.) There are no new allegations in the SAC to justify deviating from that conclusion. With this in mind, in the interests of judicial economy—and as a matter of common sense—the statute of limitations defense should be tried first. This case exemplifies why courts are granted discretion under §§ 597 and 598 to bifurcate issues for trial. The critical question or issue in this case has always been, and remains, whether Plaintiffs’ claims are time-barred. Based on the contested evidence presented in the recent motion for summary judgment, this is an incredibly close call. Plaintiffs’ case lives or dies by this issue.Ruling otherwise under the facts presented here would risk unnecessary prejudice to the parties and court, because “a decision in [Defendants’] favor may render unnecessary the effort and expense of a complete trial.” (Cohn v. Bugas (1974) 42 Cal. App. 3d 381, 389.)It is also important to note there is little, if any, overlap between the evidence underlying the statute of limitations issue and the evidence underlying the substance of the malpractice claims. The merits of Plaintiffs’ underlying claims are wholly separate from the statute of limitations. Thus, bifurcation would not result in the duplication of evidence. This fact also supports bifurcation.Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion to Bifurcate is GRANTED.IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   February 14, 2023 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior Court Any party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept49@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.