 Case Number:  22STCV20090    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     February
13, 2024                             TRIAL DATE:  N/A
                                                           
CASE:                         Juanita Marquez v. Equinox
Holdings Inc.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV20090
 





















 
MOTION
TO USE A SETTLED STATEMENT



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Juanita Marquez
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
            On June 20,
2022, Plaintiff, Juanita Marquez, initiated this action against Defendant, Equinox
Holdings Inc.  Plaintiff filed a First
Amended Complaint on December 16, 2022.
 
            On June 21,
2023, the court heard oral argument on Defendant’s demurrer to the First
Amended Complaint and took the matter under submission.  
 
On June 23, 2023, the court issued its order sustaining
Defendant’s demurrer to the First Amended Complaint without leave to amend.  Judgment was entered on August 10, 2023. 
 
            On October
3, 2023, the court denied Plaintiff’s ex parte application for an immediate
reconsideration order.
 
            On October
9, 2023, Plaintiff filed a notice of appeal.
                                                     
            On January
3, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion to use a settled statement.  The motion is unopposed.[1]
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD 
 
 “A settled statement
is a summary of the superior court proceedings approved by the superior
court.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 8.137(a).)  “An appellant may
either elect under (b)(1) or move under (b)(2) to use a settled statement as
the record of the oral proceedings in the superior court, instead of a
reporter’s transcript.”  (Id.) 
 
With respect to when a settled statement may be used, CRC
rule 8.137(b) provides the following: 
 
1.      An appellant may elect in his or her notice designating the
record on appeal under rule 8.121 to use a settled statement as the record of
the oral proceedings in the superior court without filing a motion under (2)
if: 
 
A.    The designated oral proceedings in the superior court were
not reported by a court reporter; or 
B.     The appellant has an order waiving his or her court fees
and costs. 
 
2.      An appellant intending to proceed under this rule for reasons
other than those listed in (1) must serve and file in superior court with its
notice designating the record on appeal under rule 8.121 a motion to use a
settled statement instead of a reporter’s transcript. 
 
A.    The motion must be supported by a showing that: 
 
                               
i.           
A substantial cost saving
will result and the statement can be settled without significantly burdening
opposing parties or the court; 
                             
ii.           
The designated oral
proceedings cannot be transcribed; or 
                           
iii.           
Although the appellant does
not have a fee waiver, he or she is unable to pay for a reporter’s transcript
and funds are not available for the Transcript Reimbursement Fund (see rule
8.130(c)). 


B.     If the court denies the motion, the appellant must file a
new notice designating the record on appeal under rule 8.121 within 10 days
after the superior court clerk sends, or a party serves, the order of denial. 
 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 8.137(b).) 
 
“An appellant’s notice under (1) or motion under (2) must:
[¶] (A) Specify the date of each oral proceeding to be included in the settled
statement; [¶] (B) Identify whether each proceeding designated under (A) was
reported by a court reporter and, if so, for each such proceeding: [¶] (i)
Provide the name of the court report, if known; and [¶] (ii) Identify whether a
certified transcript has previously been prepared by checking the appropriate
box on Appellant’s Notice Designating Record on Appeal (Unlimited Civil
Case) (form APP-003) or, if that form is not used, placing an asterisk
before the proceeding in the notice.”  (Id., rule 8.137(b)(3).) 
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff seeks a court order to use a settled statement
instead of a reporter’s transcript of the trial court oral proceedings for the
appeal filed on October 9, 2023.  Plaintiff
brings the motion on the grounds the proceedings cannot be transcribed because
the oral proceedings were not reported by a court reporter and cannot be
transcribed.  
 
Rule 8.137(b)(2) requires that an appellant intending to
proceed under this rule must show that a substantial cost saving will result
and the statement can be settled without significant burden to the opposition
or the Court and the designated oral proceedings were not reported and cannot
be transcribed.
 
Here, there was no court reporter to transcribe the June 21,
2023.  Defendant has not filed an
opposition.  Accordingly, Defendant makes
no argument that it will be significantly burdened by the settled statement. 
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
 
            Therefore,
the unopposed motion to use a settled statement is GRANTED.[2]
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
Dated:   February 13, 2024                              




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 


