 Case Number:  23STCV20030    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     February
13, 2024                             TRIAL
DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Neil H. Cogan v. Automobile Club of Southern California, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV20030
 





















 
DEMURRER
WITH MOTION TO STRIKE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants
Automobile Club of Southern California and Interinsurance Exchange of the
Automobile Club
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Neil H.
Cogan
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            This is a breach of contract action.  On November 1, 2023, Plaintiff, Neil H. Cogan,
filed the operative First Amended Complaint (FAC) against Defendants Automobile
Club of Southern California (“Auto Club”), Interinsurance Exchange of the
Automobile Club (“Interinsurance”), and American Automobile Association,
alleging causes of action for (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Breach of Implied
Covenant of Good Faith & Fair Dealing; Violation of Unfair Insurance
Practices Act & Ins. Code Sections 785, 790, (3) Fraudulent Business
Practice: Violation of Unfair Competition Law, Business and Professions Code
Section 17200, (4) Breach of the Unruh Civil Rights Act; Failure to Protect
Against Discrimination, and (5) Tortious Breach of Land and Privacy.[1]  Attached as Exhibit A to the FAC are various
documents including, but not limited to, a renewal offer, renewal bill, renewal
declarations, building ordinance or law coverage disclosure, residential
insurance disclosure.[2]
 The policy is not included.  Plaintiff is self-represented.
 
As stated in the “Factual Allegations” section in the FAC, Plaintiff
purchased homeowners’ insurance from Defendants.  Thereafter, a patio wall at Plaintiff’s
residence collapsed due to poor weather conditions.  Plaintiff submitted a claim.  Four claims adjusters reviewed the claim.  The first, second, and third claims adjusters
determined there was coverage.  However,
more than five months after the collapse occurred, the fourth claims adjuster determined
the collapse of the patio wall was either not covered because 1) the wall
collapse or 2) the patio was not covered under the policy. 
 
Plaintiff alleges the denial was erroneous because the fourth
claims adjuster ignored relevant weather reports, overruled contemporaneous
decisions of the three prior claims adjusters, and hired a civil engineer to
justify the false conclusion that the collapse took place on March 1, 2023 when
the weather was mild.  Plaintiff also
alleges the civil engineer trespassed onto Plaintiff’s property and the fourth
claims adjuster denied the claim, in part, because of Plaintiff’s religion
(Plaintiff is an Orthodox Jew) and age (Plaintiff is 79 years old).
 
            On December
22, 2023, Auto Club and Interinsurance (hereafter, “Defendants”) filed this demurrer
to each cause of action, and concurrently filed a motion to strike the requests
for punitive damages in the FAC.
 
            Plaintiff
filed an opposition.  Defendants replied.
 
II.        DISCUSSION RE DEMURRER  
 
A.  Legal Standard 
 
A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the pleadings and
will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on its face.  (City
of Atascadero v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 445, 459.)  “We treat the demurrer as admitting all material
facts properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact
or law.  We accept the factual allegations of the complaint as true and also consider
matters which may be judicially noticed.  [Citation.]”  (Mitchell
v. California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del
E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 (Del
E. Webb Corp.) [“the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true,
however improbable they may be”].) Allegations are to be liberally
construed.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.)  In construing the allegations,
the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that may modify or
limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations.  (Financial Corporation
of America v. Wilburn (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 764, 769.)   
 
A demurrer may be brought if insufficient facts are stated
to support the cause of action asserted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(e).) “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a
complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified
under modern discovery procedures.”  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California,
Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)   


Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable
possibility of successful amendment.  (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18
Cal.3d 335, 348.)  The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that
a pleading can be amended successfully. 
(Ibid.)  
 
            B.  Application 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Defense counsel has complied with the meet and confer
requirement.  (See Declaration of Colin
Adkins, ¶ 12; Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)  
 
Analysis  
 
Defendants’ argument
that the FAC is uncertain is well taken. 
With respect to each cause of action, Plaintiff fails to distinguish
between Defendants.  This renders the entirety
of the FAC uncertain.  This will have to
be corrected.  Plaintiff will need to identify
Defendant’s separately and connect the Defendant’s conduct to their
liability.  Plaintiff is encouraged to track
the elements of each cause of action when assembling his complaint.  
 
In anticipation of
an amended complaint, the court offers its observations to assist the parties.  
 
1.     
First Cause of Action for Breach of Contract 
 
The elements of a
breach of contract cause of action are: (1) the existence of a valid contract
between the plaintiff and the defendant, (2) the plaintiff’s performance, (3)
the defendant’s unjustified failure to perform, and (4) damages to the
plaintiff caused by the defendant’s breach.  (CACI No. 303; Careau & Co. v. Security
Pacific Business, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1388 (Careau); Otworth
v. Southern Pac. Transportation (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452, 458.)   In an action founded upon a
contract, the complaint must indicate whether the contract is written,
oral, or implied by conduct. (Code Civ. Proc., 430.10, subd. (g).)  The elements of a breach of oral contract
claim are the same as those for a breach of written contract.  (Careau, 222 Cal.App.3d at p. 1388.)
 
a.  Auto Club
 
Auto Club’s argument
is straightforward: Plaintiff cannot state a breach of contract cause of action
against Auto Club because Interinsurance issued the written insurance policy,
not Auto Club.  As such, there is no
contractual relationship between Auto Club and Plaintiff arising from the written
insurance policy.  In support, Auto Club
points to Exhibit A to the FAC, which states at the bottom of the first page,
“Insurance provided to qualified Auto Club members by the Interinsurance
Exchange of the Automobile Club.”  (See
Exhibit Errata.)  Plaintiff did not
attach a copy of the insurance policy.  Based
upon the allegations in the FAC and Exhibit A, the court agrees with Auto Club.  
 
A defendant cannot
be held liable for breach of a written contract or for breach of the covenant
of good faith and fair dealing when there is no direct relationship between the
defendant and the plaintiff.  (See, e.g.,
Henry v. Associated Indemnity Corp. (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 1405, 1416-17
(Henry) (holding that there is neither a breach of the covenant of good
faith and fair dealing or breach of contract action in the absence of a direct
contractual relationship between the insured and the claims adjuster).)  
 
To the extent
Plaintiff argues there was an oral contract based upon representations made by Auto
Club and/or its representatives, Plaintiff fails to plead a breach of an oral
contract. 
 
b.  Interinsurance
 
Interinsurance
argues the First Cause of Action is uncertain for two reasons.  First, the FAC does not sufficiently plead
the terms of the contract and Exhibit A is not a copy of the policy but rather
an offer for renewal of the policy.  For
this proposition, Interinsurance cites Otworth
v. Southern Pac. Transportation Co. (1985)
166 Cal.App.3d 452 (Otworth). 
In Otworth, the appellate court held, in relevant part, “[i]f
the action is based on an alleged breach of a written contract, the terms must
be set out verbatim in the body of the complaint or a copy of the written
instrument must be attached and incorporated by reference.”  (Otworth, at p. 459.)  
 
The Fourth
District Court of Appeal in Miles v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2015)
236 Cal.App.4th 394 (Miles) disagreed with Otworth: 
 
“The Otworth court did not
offer any analysis to support that proposition. Instead, it simply cited Wise
v. Southern Pacific Co. (1963) 223 Cal.App.2d 50, 59, 35 Cal.Rptr. 652 (Wise)
(overruled on other grounds in Applied Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi
Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 510, 521, 28 Cal.Rptr.2d 475, 869 P.2d
454). The Wise court stated, “where a written instrument is the
foundation of a cause of action, it may be pleaded in haec verba by
attaching a copy as an exhibit and incorporating it by proper reference.” (Wise,
at p. 59, 35 Cal.Rptr. 652.) It is readily apparent that the Otworth court
read more into that statement than is actually there. The Wise court was
simply stating one available method of pleading the contract—it was not
specifying the exclusive means of pleading a contract. The correct rule
is that “a plaintiff may plead the legal effect of the contract rather than its
precise language.” (Construction Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty
Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 199, 126 Cal.Rptr.2d 908, 57 P.3d 372.)
Because it is apparent that the Otworth court misread Wise, and
because, in any event, we are bound by our Supreme Court, we decline to follow Otworth.



(Miles, at
pp. 401-402.)  This court is similarly
bound by the California Supreme Court and elects to follow Miles.[3]  
 
            The FAC sufficiently pleads the
legal effect of the contract.  The allegations
suggest that property damage caused by the weather is a covered loss.  Plaintiff’s patio wall collapsed because of
weather conditions.  According to
Plaintiff, his claim should have been approved because he suffered a covered
loss.  Interinsurance breached the policy
by not honoring that provision and improperly attributing the damage to wear
and tear.  (See FAC, ¶¶ 8, 11-13, 23.)
 
            Nonetheless the breach of contract
claim is uncertain because Plaintiff suggests but does not plead a tortious breach,
i.e. bad faith breach of an insurance contract. 
Plaintiff appears to plead both causes of action without so
stating.  This Plaintiff cannot do.  If Plaintiff intends to pursue a tortious
breach, Plaintiff must not only state the cause of action but also must plead and
include facts meeting the requisite elements. 
The First Cause of Action improperly combines causes of action for
breach of contract with tortious breach of the implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing.  For example, Defendants
argue emotional distress is not recoverable for a breach of an insurance
contract[4] but may be recoverable in
insurance bad faith actions[5].  While the “purpose of a demurrer is to test whether,
as a matter of law, the properly pleaded facts in the complaint state a cause
of action under any legal theory,” (Olson
v. Hornbrook Cmty. Servs. Dist. (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 502, 516.), here the
first cause of action for breach of contract is both factually and legally
uncertain. 
 
            2.  Second Cause of Action for Violation of
Unfair Insurance Practices Act & Ins. Code Sections 785, 790.[6]
 
The Second Cause
of Action alleges violations of Insurance Code sections 785 and 790.  
 
Let’s start with Insurance
Code section 785.  That section provides:
“All insurers, brokers, agents, and others engaged in the transaction of
insurance owe a prospective insured who is 65 years of age or older, a duty of
honesty, good faith, and fair dealing. This duty is in addition to any other
duty, whether express or implied, that may exist.”  (Ins. Code, § 785, subd. (a).)  “Conduct of an insurer, broker, or agent, or
other person engaged in the transaction of insurance, during the offer and sale
of a policy or certificate previous to the purchase is relevant to any action
alleging a breach of the duty of good faith and fair dealing.”  (Ins. Code, § 785, subd. (b).)
 
As to Section 785,
multiple federal courts have concluded that section 785 does not create
a private right of action.  (See, e.g., In
re Nat. Western Life Ins. Deferred Annuities (S.D.Cal. 2006) 467 F.Supp.2d
1071, 1088; Abbit v. ING USA Annuity & Life Ins. Co. (S.D.Cal. 2014)
999 F.Supp.2d 1189, 1198; Parducci v. Overland Solutions, Inc. (N.D.Cal.
2019) 399 F.Supp.3d 969, 979.)  But the California
courts have not squarely addressed the question. (See Mahan v. Charles W.
Chan Ins. Agency, Inc. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 841, 868, fn. 27 [declining to
take judicial notice of the DOI's letter opinion whether Ins. Code, § 785 provides
a private right of action because the issue was not raised in the trial court
and declining to address it for the first time on appeal].)  
 
Plaintiff urges
the court to consider the Department of Insurance’s Legal Opinion dated August
7, 2015.  In the Legal Opinion, the
Department of Insurance purportedly recognizes a private right of action under
Section 785.  Under Section 785, a duty
of honesty, good faith, and fair dealing is owed to prospective insureds
over the age of 65.  At this juncture the
court need not resolve the question whether a private right of action exists
because the Second Cause of Action is uncertain. 
 
Ins. Code section
785 concerns the “[c]onduct of an insurer, broker, or agent, or other person
engaged in the transaction of insurance, during the offer and sale of a
policy or certificate previous to the purchase is relevant to any
action alleging a breach of the duty of good faith and fair dealing.”  Here, the FAC alleges that Plaintiff
purchased an insurance policy from Defendants (without identifying which Defendant)
and that, thereafter, Defendants (without identifying which Defendant) breached
the agreement.  Moreover, Plaintiff does
not allege whether Interinsurance’s broker or agent or other person who were engaged
in the transaction of insurance had any contact with Plaintiff.  Based upon the allegations in the FAC, it
appears Auto Club’s agents and representatives dealt with Plaintiff as a
prospective insured, not Interinsurance. 
It is unclear and uncertain if Interinsurance’s representatives made any
representations at all.  And as
previously stated, to state breach
of an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, Plaintiff must proceed
based upon a written contract.  Plaintiff’s
Ins. Code section 785 is uncertain.   
 
Turning to Insurance
Code section 790, Interinsurance cites Moradi-Shalal v. Fireman's Fund Ins.
Companies (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287 (Moradi-Shalal) for the
proposition that there is no private right of action under Section 790.  Interinsurance is correct.  In that case, the California Supreme Court reexamined
its decision in Royal Globe Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1979) 23 Cal.3d
880 and concluded the Royal Globe court incorrectly evaluated the
legislative intent underlying the passage of section 790.03, subdivision
(h).  The Moradi-Shalal Court
stated in no uncertain terms: “Neither section 790.03 nor section 790.09 was
intended to create a private civil cause of action against an insurer that
commits one of the various acts listed in section 790.03, subdivision (h).”  (Moradi-Shalal, at p. 304.)  Plaintiff does not offer any argument or
authority to contrary. 
 
3.  Third Cause
of Action for Violation the Unfair Competition Law, California Business and
Professions Code Section 17200
 
The Unfair
Competition Law (UCL) is codified at Business and Professions Code, section
17200 et seq.¿ Section 17204 of the UCL provides that a private person “who has
suffered injury in fact and has lost money or property as a result of the
unfair competition” may bring a 17200 action.¿ (Bus. & Prof. Code, §
17204.)¿ In an action against an insurer, the essential allegations to plead a
claim for violation of the UCL include:
 
·        
plaintiff's
status as an insured or intended beneficiary of the insurer's policy;
·        
the
existence of that policy;
·        
the
insurer's conduct and that such conduct was an “unfair, unlawful or fraudulent”
business practice in violation of section 17200;
·        
plaintiff
sustained injury and/or loss of money or property as a result of the insured's
“unfair, unlawful or fraudulent” business practice;
·        
plaintiff
has no adequate remedy at law;
·        
a
request for injunctive relief and/or restitution (again, monetary damages are
not recoverable under the UCL; see ¶ 15:110); and
·        
a
request for attorney fees.
 
(Croskey,
Heeseman, Ehrlich, and Klee, Cal Prac. Guide: Insurance Litigation (The Rutter
Group 2023) ¶ 15.112.) 
 
            a. 
Auto Club
 
            Based upon the FAC, Plaintiff is
insured by Interinsurane, not Auto Club. 

 
            b. 
Interinusrance
 
            The cause of action is uncertain because
Plaintiff does not identify Interinsurances unfair, unlawful, and fraudulent
business practice.  Again, Plaintiff fails
to differentiate between the Defendants. 
Moreover, as pointed out by Interinsurance, Plaintiff appears to have an
adequate remedy at law.  Plaintiff fails
to address this argument. 
 
4.  Fourth
Cause of Action for Breach of the Unruh Civil Rights Act
 
The Unruh Act
provides that “[a]ll persons within the jurisdiction of this state are free and
equal, and no matter what their sex, race, color, religion, ancestry, national
origin, disability, medical condition, genetic information, marital status,
sexual orientation, citizenship, primary language, or immigration status are
entitled to the full and equal accommodations, advantages, facilities,
privileges, or services in all business establishments of every kind
whatsoever.”  (Civ. Code, § 51, subd. (b); see Civ. Code, § 52.) 
Moreover, a violation of the ADA also qualifies as a violation of Unruh. 
(Civ. Code, § 51, subd. (f).)¿¿ 
 
To state a cause
of action for violation of the Unruh Act, a plaintiff must show that: (1)
defendant denied, aided or incited a denial of or discriminated against
plaintiff with respect to full and equal accommodations, advantages,
facilities, privileges, or services; (2) the substantial motivating reason for
defendant’s conduct was due to its perception of an actionable characteristic;
(3) the actionable characteristic was a substantial motivating reason for
defendant’s conduct; and (4) defendant was a substantial factor in causing
plaintiff’s harm.  (CACI No. 3060.)   
 
            This cause of action is uncertain
because Plaintiff fails to quote the operative language of the insurance policy
or to attach the policy.  Plaintiff’s
argument turns upon the language of the policy and the claims adjuster’s
interpretation of the policy.  But the language
of the policy is not included.  And, as
previously discussed, Plaintiff fails to distinguish and identify which
Defendant engaged in the conduct that is subject to this cause of action.  Plaintiff argues, “Based upon the fourth adjuster’s
interpretation of the residence insurance policy, the manner in which Plaintiff
constructs his Sukhot (“Tabernacles”) excludes Sukhot from coverage.”  This allegation, however, does not appear in
the FAC.  Moreover, Plaintiff’s argument
appears to advance the position that the insurance policy should be interpreted
in a manner that considers the religious significance of a residential
structure.  But Plaintiff does not
include the predicate and specific language from the policy. The FAC is
deficient.
 
            5. 
Fifth Cause of Action for Tortious Breaches of Land and Privacy 
 
On the face page, Plaintiff
captions the Fifth Cause of Action as “Tort of Trespass.”  In the body of the FAC, however, Plaintiff refers
to the Fifth Cause of Action as “Tortious Breaches of Land and Privacy.”  Plaintiff does not cite authority that
supports a single cause of action for Tortious Breaches of Land and
Privacy.  If Plaintiff intended to
conflate the three causes of action on the face page (causes of action 5-7)
into a single cause of action, doing so renders the Fifth Cause of Action
uncertain.[7]   
 
IV.       CONCLUSION[8]
            
Defendants’ demurrer to the FAC is sustained.  
 
Leave to amend is granted. 
Plaintiff is ordered to file and serve his Second Amended Complaint
within 30 days of this order. 
 
Defendants are to file and service their responsive pleading
within 30 days of service of Plaintiff’s amended complaint.
 
Defendants to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   February 13,
2024                                      




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
            


