 Case Number:  22STCV36816    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     February
13, 2024                             TRIAL DATE:  September 3, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Joanne Pak v.
Jennifer O. Oh, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV36816
 





















 
MOTION
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Jennifer O. Oh
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
            On August 29,
2023, Defendant, Jennifer O. Oh, filed this motion to compel Plaintiff, Joanne
Pak, to provide responses to Defendant’s Request for Production of Documents,
Set One.  Defendant seeks sanctions
against Plaintiff.  Plaintiff is
self-represented.
                                                     
            The motion
is unopposed.[1]
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD TO COMPEL DISCOVERY RESPONSES 
 
            If a party
to whom inspection demands were directed fails to serve a timely response, the
propounding party may move for an order to compel responses without
objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (b).)  Failure to
timely serve responses waives objections to the requests.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a).)    
 
            Monetary
Sanctions 
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 2023.030 is a general statute authorizing the Court to
impose discovery sanctions for “misuse of the discovery process,” which
includes (without limitation) a variety of conduct such as: making, without
substantial justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an
evasive response to discovery; and unsuccessfully and without substantial
justification making or opposing a motion to compel or limit discovery.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.)¿¿¿ 
¿ 
            If
sanctions are sought, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.040 requires that
the notice specify the identity of the person against whom sanctions are sought
and the type of sanction requested, that the motion be supported in the points
and authorities, and the facts be set forth in a declaration supporting the
amount of any monetary sanction.¿¿ 
¿ 
            If the
court finds that a party has unsuccessfully made or opposed a motion to compel
responses to inspection demands, the court “shall impose a monetary sanction .
. . unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (c).)  
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
            Defendant
served Plaintiff with the discovery request on June 20, 2023.¿ However, to
date, Plaintiff has not provided responses.¿ (See Park Decl.)¿ Therefore, all
objections to the production demands are waived.¿¿¿ 
¿ 
            As
Defendant properly served the discovery request and Plaintiff failed to serve
responses, the Court finds Defendant is entitled to an order directing
Plaintiff to provide responses to the Request for Production of Documents, Set
One. 
 
            Monetary
Sanctions 
¿ 
            Defendant
requests sanctions against Plaintiff.  Given that the court has granted this
motion, sanctions are warranted.  Accordingly, sanctions are imposed
against Plaintiff in the sum of $548.91, representing 1 hour at defense
counsel’s hourly rate and $68.91 in filing fees. 
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
 
            The unopposed
motion is granted.  Plaintiff Joanne Pak is
ordered to provide verified, objection-free responses to Defendant’s Request
for Production of Documents, Set One. 
 
            The request
for sanctions is granted.  Plaintiff is ordered
to pay sanctions in the amount of $548.91 to Defendant, by and through her
counsel.
 
            Discovery
responses are to be provided and sanctions are to be paid within 30 days of the
date of this order. 
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
Dated:   February 13, 2024                              




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 


