  Case Number:  23VECV05376    Hearing Date:   December 16, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR
  COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY
  OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT




Creditors
  Adjustment Bureau, Inc.,
 
Plaintiff,
 
       
   v.
 
Lester
  Finnell,
 
Defendant.


   CASE NUMBER             DEPARTMENT
       23VECV05376            107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
 
MOTION FOR SANCTIONS



 
Deny
 
I.               
BACKGROUND 
 
Plaintiff Creditors Adjustment
Bureau, Inc’s (“Plaintiff”) assignor entered into an agreement with Defendants
Lester Finnell aka Lester Crawford Finnell III aka Lester C Finnell dba Seven
Safe Services adba Seven Safe Security aka Seven Safe Security Consultant aka
Seven Safe and Does 1 through 10 (“Defendants”). (Complaint ¶ 11.) Plaintiff’s
assignor agreed to provide workers compensation insurance policies to
Defendants and Defendants agreed to pay a premium in accordance with the terms
of each policy. (Complaint ¶ 11.) The agreement required Defendants to allow
Plaintiff’s assignor to access Defendants’ business records to conduct an
audit. (Complaint ¶ 14.) Defendants breached the agreement by failing to
provide Plaintiff’s assignor access to Defendants’ records. (Complaint ¶¶
14-15.)  
 
On December 4, 2023, Plaintiff
filed a complaint against Defendants alleging causes of action for: (1) breach
of contract; (2) open book account; (3) account stated; and (4) reasonable
value. (Complaint pp. 3-6.) 
 
On June 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
motion for summary adjudication on the breach of contract cause of action. On
September 30, 2024, this court granted Plaintiff’s motion for summary
adjudication. (09/30/24 pp. 1, 13.) 
 
On October 10, 2024, Defendant
Lester Finnell (“Defendant”) filed a motion for reconsideration of this court’s
order granting Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication. On December 3,
2024, this court denied that motion. (12/03/24 p. 10.)
 
On December 18, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a motion for sanctions (the “Motion”). On November 21, 2024, Defendant
filed an opposition. On December 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply. On December
10, 2024, Defendant filed a sur-reply.
 
I.               
TIMELINESS
 
Per California Code of Civil Procedure §¿1005,
subdivision (b), moving papers should be filed at least 16 court days before
they are set for hearing, oppositions thereto should be filed at least nine
court days before the set hearing, and replies to any oppositions should be
filed at least five court days before the set hearing. 
 
The Motion, opposition, and reply
were timely filed under section 1005. 
 
Defendant also filed a sur-reply to
Plaintiff’s reply. Section 1005, subdivision (b) does not provide for the
filing of a sur-reply. Defendant’s counsel also did not request leave to file a
sur-reply in this matter. The court is not persuaded that Plaintiff’s reply
raised issues justifying a sur-reply. Accordingly, this court does not consider
Defendant’s sur-reply filed December 10, 2024.
 
II.            
SAFE
HARBOR PERIOD
 
“A party seeking sanctions under
section 128.7 follows a two-step procedure. [Citation] First, the moving party
serves notice of the motion for sanctions on the offending party. [Citation]
Service of the motion starts a safe harbor period during which the motion
cannot be filed with the court. [Citation] If the challenged paper, claim,
defense, contention, allegation or denial is not withdrawn or corrected within
a prescribed number of days, the second step is to file or present the motion
for sanctions to the court.” (Primo Hospitality Group, Inc. v. Haney (2019)
37 Cal.App.5th 165, 173-174.)
 
 “[A] party is not
entitled to sanctions pursuant to section 128.7 unless
the target of the motion has had a full 21 days to withdraw the allegedly
offending paper, claim, defense, contention, allegation, or denial.” (Broadcast
Music, Inc. v. Structured Asset Sales, LLC (2022) 75 Cal.App.5th 596,
599.)  “[A] moving party cannot file a
motion for sanctions until the 22nd day after the motion was served.” (Id.)
 
Plaintiff’s counsel submits a declaration stating they
emailed and mailed Defendant’s counsel a copy of the Motion on October 22,
2024, informing counsel that this Motion would be filed if Defendant’s counsel
did not withdraw the motion for reconsideration by November 12, 2024. (Brown
Declaration filed 11/18/24 ¶ 5.) The declaration states that a
copy of the letter is attached to the declaration as Exhibit 3. (Brown
Declaration filed 11/18/24 ¶ 5.) There is no Exhibit 3 attached to the
declaration. However, this court has no reason to doubt that Plaintiff’s counsel
sent Defendant’s counsel the letter. Accordingly, the safe harbor period began
on October 22, 2024, and Plaintiff was not permitted to file the Motion until
November 13, 2024. 
 
Plaintiff filed the Motion on
November 18, 2024. Accordingly, Defendant’s counsel had the full safe-harbor
period to withdraw the motion for reconsideration.
 
III.          
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
1008 contains the requirements for a motion for reconsideration. “A violation
of [Code of Civil Procedure section 1008] may be punished as a contempt and
with sanctions as allowed by Section 128.7.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008(d).)
 
“Every pleading, petition, written
notice of motion, or other similar paper shall be signed by at least one
attorney of record in the attorney's individual name, or, if the party is not
represented by an attorney, shall be signed by the party.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
128.7(a).) “By
presenting to the court, whether by signing, filing, submitting, or later
advocating, a pleading, petition, written notice of motion, or other similar
paper, an attorney or unrepresented party is certifying that to the best of the
person's knowledge, information, and belief, formed after an inquiry reasonable
under the circumstances . . . 
 
(1)   It
is not being presented primarily for an improper purpose, such as to harass or
to cause unnecessary delay or needless increase in the cost of litigation.
 
(2)   The
claims, defenses, and other legal contentions therein are warranted by existing
law or by a nonfrivolous argument for the extension, modification, or reversal
of existing law or the establishment of new law.
 
(3)   The
allegations and other factual contentions have evidentiary support or, if
specifically so identified, are likely to have evidentiary support after a
reasonable opportunity for further investigation or discovery.
 
(4)   The
denials of factual contentions are warranted on the evidence or, if
specifically so identified, are reasonably based on a lack of information or
belief.
 
 (Code Civ. Proc., §
128.7(b).) 
 
“If, after notice and a reasonable
opportunity to respond, the court determines that subdivision (b) has been
violated, the court may, subject to the conditions stated below, impose an
appropriate sanction upon the attorneys, law firms, or parties that have
violated subdivision (b) or are responsible for the violation. In determining
what sanctions, if any, should be ordered, the court shall consider whether a
party seeking sanctions has exercised due diligence.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
128.7(c.)
 
IV.          
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff argues Defendant’s motion
for reconsideration is frivolous under section 1008 because “Defendant . . .
clearly failed to satisfy subparts (3) and (4) . . . requiring ‘new or
different facts, circumstances or law’ and a declaration with specific
information.” (Motion p. 3.) Specifically, Plaintiff argues Defendant’s motion
for reconsideration was based on facts known at the time of the original motion
for summary adjudication and did not include the required declaration. (Motion
pp. 4-6.)
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff is seeking duplicative
sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure sections 1008, subdivision (b) and
128.7. (Opposition p. 2.)  Code of Civil
Procedure section 1008, subdivision (d) states that “[a] violation of this
section may be punished as a contempt and with sanctions as allowed by Section
128.7.” By citing both sections 1008 and 128.7, Plaintiff is merely citing the
applicable law. Moreover, section 128.7, subdivision (c)(1) states that “[a]
motion for sanctions under this section shall be made separately from other
motions or requests[.]” Thus, Plaintiff is not seeking duplicative sanctions.
Defendant further argues Plaintiff’s counsel’s
statement that “this court did not mention to Defense counsel about the filing
of a reconsideration motion . . . IS AN OUTRAGEOUS LIE[.]” (Opposition p. 3)
Plaintiff’s counsel stated in her declaration that “[a]lthough I distinctly
remember [Defendant’s counsel] arguing extensively about his non-receipt of the
certified mailing and his assertion that there were three total tenants in the
suite in question, I have no recollection of the Court remotely suggesting that
Defendant filed a Motion for Reconsideration so he could further argue this
same exact point.” (Brown Declaration filed 11/18/24 ¶ 3.) Although
Plaintiff’s and Defendant’s counsel may have different recollections about what
transpired at the summary adjudication hearing, there is no evidence before
this court that Plaintiff’s counsel lied to this court.
Defendant also argues the motion
for reconsideration was not frivolous. (Opposition pp. 3-4.)
 
As to the declaration, this court
found in its ruling on the motion for reconsideration that the declaration
sufficiently identified the “new” evidence the motion for reconsideration was
based upon. (12/03/24 Minute Order p. 4.) 
 
This court finds that many of
Defendant’s arguments raised in the motion for reconsideration were frivolous.
In the motion for reconsideration, Defendant argued there were disputes of
material fact relating to who caused the audit not to be scheduled, whether
section 11760.1 requires “receipt” of the certified mail, whether there was a
compelling business reason leading to the non-occurrence of the audit, whether
the estimate premium was reasonable, and whether defendant refused three
requests for audit under section 11760.1. (See 12/03/24 Minute Order pp. 5-8.)
As stated in this court’s ruling on the motion for reconsideration, this court
considered, and rejected, these arguments in its ruling on Plaintiff’s motion
for summary adjudication. (12/03/24 Minute Order pp. 5-8.) Thus, these
arguments, did not constitute “new or different facts, circumstances, or law”
that could justify a motion for reconsideration under section 1008.
 
The final argument Defendant raised
in the motion for reconsideration related to the three separate businesses
operating out of Defendant’s counsel’s business address where Plaintiff sent
the certified mail. (12/03/24 Minute Order p. 7.) 
 
Applying only section 1008, this
court stated in its ruling on Defendant’s motion for reconsideration that the
three businesses operating out of Defendant’s counsel’s business address was
not “new” evidence.  (12/03/24 Minute
Order p. 7.)
 
In the motion for reconsideration,
Defendant also cited section 473, subdivision (b), and stated that “[t]he
several facts concerning thereof can and must be raised now in this
reconsideration motion since they were either not in existence at the time of
the original MSJ hearing or was presented but late in writing and was objected
to by the Plaintiff —and as such can now be presented for reconsideration via
CCP 473(b) and Mink, supra.” (Motion for Reconsideration p. 5.) At the
hearing on the motion for reconsideration, Defendant argued Avila v. Chua (1997)
57 Cal.App.4th 860, supported applying section 473, subdivision (b), to the
motion for reconsideration.
 
In Avila v. Chua, supra, 57
Cal.App.4th at p. 868, the trial court denied a motion for reconsideration
under Code of Civil Procedure section 473 that was “entered after the trial
court struck appellant’s late-filed opposition to respondents’ summary judgment
motions and granted summary judgment.” The Court of Appeal held that the trial
court erred. (Id.) The Court stated that section 473 applied because the
case was “directly analogous to a default judgment” and “[t]here was no
litigation on the merits.” (Id. at p. 866-868.) The Court further noted
that “Appellant [had] submitted declarations which directly contradicted
respondents’ most crucial proposed undisputed facts, but those declarations
were not considered by the court. Appellant’s response was stricken, and the
matter proceeded to summary judgment and judgment as if by default.” (Id.
at p. 868.) Avila v. Chua, was disapproved of by The Urban Wildlands
Group, Inc. v. City of Los Angeles (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 993, 1000, where
the Court of Appeal stated that “[a]s expressly worded, section 473(b) applies only
to relief sought in response to defaults, default judgments or dismissals”
and “[s]ummary judgments are neither defaults, nor default judgments, nor
dismissals.”
 
Avila is
distinguishable from the facts at issue here because this court fully
considered the merits and both parties’ arguments relating to the motion for
summary adjudication. (See 09/30/24 Minute Order.) However, because Avila has
been disapproved of, and not expressly overruled, this court declines to find
Defendant’s argument applying Avila and section 473 to be frivolous or
not warranted by existing law.
 
Finally, Plaintiff argues sanctions
should be imposed because “both defendant and defense counsel . . . offered
false testimony to this court when they denied receipt of some of the mailings
sent by both SCIF and Plaintiff . . .” (Motion pp. 7-8.) Plaintiff further
argues “defense counsel submitted yet additional false testimony regarding the
number of tenants utilizing the Suite where the certified mail was delivered.”
(Motion p. 8.) Plaintiff submits evidence that there is only one other business
currently operating out of Defendant’s counsel’s business address but submits
no other evidence that the testimony discussed above is false. (Opposition pp.
5-6.)  Plaintiff’s arguments are
speculative, and this court declines to award sanctions on the grounds
Defendant and Defendant’s counsel offered false testimony to this court.
 
Accordingly, this court declines to
impose sanctions under sections 1008 and 128.7.
 
V.             
CONTEMPT SANCTIONS
In the reply, Plaintiff references emails
between Plaintiff’s counsel and Defendant’s counsel and argues Defendant’s
counsel’s “vulgar and unprofessional behavior also warrants contempt
sanctions.” (Reply p. 9.)
 
Plaintiff did not argue in the
Motion that Defendant’s counsel’s unprofessional behavior warranted contempt
sanctions. (Motion p. 2.) Courts “ordinarily [will not] consider issues raised
for the first time in a reply brief.” (United Grant Corp. v. Malibu
Hillbillies, LLC (2019) 36 Cal.App.5th 142, 157.) “An issue is new if it
does more than elaborate on issues raised in the opening brief or rebut
arguments made by the respondent in respondent’s brief.” (Id.) 
 
Further, Plaintiff brought this
Motion under section 128.7. “Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7 . . . authorizes trial
courts to impose sanctions to check abuses in the filing of pleadings,
petitions, written notices of motions or similar papers.” (Musaelian v.
Adams (2009) 45 Cal.4th 512, 514.)
 
Defendant’s counsel’s
unprofessional emails were not submitted to this court in Defendant’s motion
for reconsideration. Plaintiff cites no authority for the proposition that
Defendant’s counsel’s unprofessional emails are sanctionable under section 128.7.
Plaintiff also identifies no other authority that authorizes this court to
sanction Defendant’s counsel for these emails. 
 
Accordingly, this court declines to
hold Defendant in contempt under section 128.7 solely for counsel’s
unprofessional emails.
 
VI.          
CONCLUSION 
 
For the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s
Motion is denied.
 
 
 
 
                                                   
     __________________________________
                                                       Judge Eric Harmon, Department 107, Van
Nuys
Date: December 16, 2024                                   
Los Angeles County Superior Court