 Case Number:  24VECV02303    Hearing Date:   December 16, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT




Tal Porat,
 
Plaintiff.
 
   v.
General Motors LLC and
  Does 1-100
 
Defendants.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
  24VECV02303                  107




COURT’S[TENTATIVE]
  DECISION RE:     MOTION TO COMPEL
  DEPOSITION 



 
(1) Grant motion to compel; (2) Grant
sanctions in the reduced amount of $1,185.00.
 
I.               
BACKGROUND
 
On or about May 27, 2023, Plaintiff Tal Porat
(“Plaintiff”) purchased a 2023 GMC Canyon (the “Vehicle”). (Complaint ¶ 6.) The
Vehicle was defective. (Complaint ¶ 12.) On May 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
complaint against Defendant General Motors LLC (“Defendant”) and Does 1 to 100
alleging causes of action for: (1) breach of implied warranty; (2) breach of
express warranty; and (3) violation of the Song Beverly Consumer Warranty Act.
(Complaint p. 1.)
 
On September 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to
compel the deposition of Defendant’s person(s) most qualified (the “Motion”).
On October 16, 2024, Defendant filed an opposition. On October 23, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a reply.
 
On October 29, 2024, the parties participated in an
informal discovery conference. (10/29/24 Minute Order.)
 
II.            
MEET
AND CONFER
 
A motion to compel a deposition must “be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to
attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored
information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450(b)(2).)¿
 
Plaintiff states that it “first requested dates of availability
[to] accommodate [Defendant] and its counsel’s schedule” and, after serving
Defendant with the Notice of Deposition, “Plaintiff once again offered
Defendant an opportunity to offer dates of availability to reschedule the
deposition.” (Motion p. 4.) Finally, Plaintiff states that “Plaintiff’s meet
and confer letter confirmed that Plaintiff agrees to limit the deposition to
the categories Defendant requested it be limited to.” (Motion p. 4.)
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff failed to meet and confer before filing
the motion. Defendant states that it “consistently offers its [person most
qualified] for deposition on multiple Categories to Plaintiff’s counsel in
other cases appropriate to the facts and issues of the particular case and has
previously produced hundreds of pages of documents” (Opposition p. 3.)
Defendant further argues that “[s]imply demanding different deposition dates is
not meeting and conferring in good faith, as the mere date of the
deposition is not the real dispute here.” (Opposition p. 3.)
 
In reply, Plaintiff argues “Defendant has never actually produced
its [person most qualified] in those other cases” and “Plaintiff has
continuously asked for dates that are convenient for [Defendant] and defense
counsel.” (Reply p. 4.) Plaintiff also states that “Defendant never provided
dates of availability and
is now attempting to mask the issue by arguing that Plaintiff did not meet and
confer by specifically responding to Defendant’s objections.” (Reply p. 4.)
 
On July 11, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel sent Defendant’s counsel a
letter requesting dates of availability for scheduling the deposition. (Sadgan
Declaration ¶ 2.)
Defendant did not respond. (Sadgan Declaration ¶ 2.) Plaintiff then served its
Notice of Deposition. (Sadgan Declaration ¶ 3.) On August 28, 2024, Defendant
served Plaintiff with objections to Plaintiff’s Notice of Deposition. (Sadgan
Declaration ¶ 4.) On August 29, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel sent a meet and
confer letter to Defendant’s counsel requesting Defendant’s dates of
availability and agreeing to limit the scope of the deposition. (Sadgan
Declaration ¶ 5.) Defendant’s counsel states it has no record of receiving
Plaintiff’s August 29, 2024, letter. (Valencia Declaration ¶ 4.)
 
Even if Defendant did not receive the letter, this
court has no reason to believe Plaintiff’s counsel did not send it to Defendant.
Accordingly, this court finds that Plaintiff made sufficient meet and confer
efforts before filing the Motion. 
 
III.          
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“Any
party may obtain discovery within the scope delimited by Chapter 2 (commencing
with Section 2017.010), and subject to the restrictions set
forth in Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 2019.010), by
taking in California the oral deposition of any person, including any party to
the action. The person deposed may be a natural person, an organization such as
a public or private corporation, a partnership, an association, or a
governmental agency.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) 
 
“If
the deponent named is not a natural person, the deposition notice shall
describe with reasonable particularity the matters on which examination is
requested. In that event, the deponent shall designate and produce at the
deposition those of its officers, directors, managing agents, employees, or
agents who are most qualified to testify on its behalf as to those matters to
the extent of any information known or reasonably available to the deponent.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.230.)
 
“The service of a
deposition notice under Section 2025.240 is
effective to require any deponent who is a party to the action or an officer,
director, managing agent, or employee of a party to attend and to testify, as
well as to produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing for inspection and copying.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.280(a).)¿¿ 
 
“If, after service
of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing
agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that
is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served
a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails
to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing
described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an
order compelling the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production
for inspection of any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450(a).)¿¿
 
“Any party served
with a deposition notice that does not comply with Article 2 (commencing
with Section 2025.210) waives any error or irregularity unless
that party promptly serves a written objection specifying that error or
irregularity at least three calendar days prior to the date for which the
deposition is scheduled, on the party seeking to take the deposition and any
other attorney or party on whom the deposition notice was served.”(Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.410(a).)
 
IV.          
DISCUSSION

 
The parties disagree
about what the dispute is in this matter. 
 
Defendant argues that
“the mere date of the deposition is not the real dispute here.”
(Opposition p. 3.) Instead, Defendant argues that the dispute here is whether
Defendant should be compelled to provide irrelevant testimony and information
and trade secret material. (Opposition pp. 3-6.)  
 
Plaintiff argues that
“Plaintiff has agreed to limit the scope of the deposition to those categories
requested by Defendant” and “Defendant’s refusal to provide any dates for the
deposition on the agreed upon categories is the only dispute here and the basis
for Plaintiff’s motion to compel.” (Reply p. 4.)
 
Plaintiff
requests this court “order
[Defendant] to designate and produce its Person(s) Most Qualified for
deposition within fifteen (15) days.” (Motion p. 7.) Defendant states it has agreed to
produce its person most qualified for a deposition “at a mutually agreeable
time and place.” (Opposition p. 2.) Accordingly, it appears that the only
remaining dispute here is when Defendant must produce its person most qualified
for a deposition.
 
Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.010, “[a]ny party may obtain discovery
within the scope delimited by Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 2017.010), and subject to the restrictions set
forth in Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 2019.010), by
taking in California the oral deposition of any person, including . . . an
organization such as a public or private corporation, a partnership, [or] an
association[.]” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.)  Thus, Plaintiff is entitled to depose
Defendant’s person most qualified. However, despite Plaintiff repeatedly
requesting Defendant’s dates of availability, (Ex. 1; Ex. 4) Defendant has not
suggested date(s) for the deposition to occur. Accordingly, this court orders
Defendant to produce its person most qualified at a deposition within thirty
(30) days’ notice of this court’s order.
 
To the extent there remains
a dispute about the scope of the deposition, Defendant may move for a
protective order and Plaintiff may file a motion to compel answers or produce
documents. (See Code Civ. Proc., §§
2025.480(a); 2025.420.)
 
V.             
SANCTIONS
 
If a
motion to compel a deposition is granted, “the court shall impose a
monetary sanction . . . in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against
the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the
court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450(g)(1).)
 
Plaintiff
seeks $1,860.00 in monetary sanctions. (Sadgan Declaration ¶ 7; Motion p. 7.)
This includes the $60.00 motion filing fee, two and a half hours in attorneys’
fees for preparing the Motion and supporting documents, half an hour for
reviewing and replying to the opposition, and one hour for attending the
hearing. (Sadgan Declaration ¶ 7.)
 
Plaintiff’s
counsel tried to schedule the deposition at a mutually agreeable time. (Sadgan
Declaration ¶¶ 2-3.) Defendant’s counsel did not respond to that letter.
(Sadgan Declaration ¶ 2.) Plaintiff then served Defendant with a Notice of
Deposition. (Sadgan Declaration ¶ 3.) Defendant served Plaintiff with its
objections on August 28, 2024. (Sadgan Declaration ¶ 4.) On August 29, 2024, Plaintiff’s
counsel sent Defendant’s counsel a meet and confer letter. (Sadgan Declaration
¶ 5.) In the August 29, 2024, letter, Plaintiff’s counsel agreed to limit the
deposition’s scope and asked Defendant to provide its dates of availability to schedule
the deposition. (Sadgan Declaration ¶ 5.) Defendant’s counsel submits a
declaration stating that, “[a]fter having conducted a diligent search,
[Defendant] has no record of receiving Plaintiff’s [August 29, 2024] letter.” (Valencia
Declaration ¶ 4.)
 
This
court acknowledges Defendant has no record of receiving Plaintiff’s August 29,
2024, letter. However, Defendant appears to have received Plaintiff’s July 11,
2024, letter. (Valencia Declaration ¶ 2.) And it was Defendant’s refusal to
provide Plaintiff with dates of availability that led Plaintiff to file this
Motion. Accordingly, this court finds that Defendant did not act with
substantial justification and no other circumstances make imposing sanctions
unjust. 
This court further finds that two and a half hours of
attorneys’ fees for preparing a boilerplate lemon law motion is excessive.
Accordingly, this court grants Plaintiff’s request for
monetary sanctions against Defendant in the reduced amount of $1,185.00,
reflecting the $60.00 motion filing fee, one hour for preparing the Motion,
half an hour for reviewing the opposition and preparing a reply, and one hour
for attending the hearing, at $450.00 per hour.
VI.          
CONCLUSION
 
For the foregoing reasons, this
court grants Plaintiff’s Motion and orders Defendant to produce its person most
qualified for a deposition within thirty (30) days’ notice of this court’s
order. This court also grants Plaintiff’s request for sanctions against
Defendant in the reduced amount of $1,185.00.
 
Dated:  December 16, 2024                                                                _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon. Eric Harmon
                                                                                                            Judge of the Superior Court