 Case Number:  24TRCV00665    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
ANDY
  MARTIN, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV00665




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
SYLVIA
  MCARTHUR AND DOUGLAS MCARTHUR AS TRUSTEES, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          December 4, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiff Andy Martin
Responding
Party:                  None
(1)  
Motion
to Compel Defendant’s Answers to Interrogatories
            The court considered the moving
papers. No opposition has been filed.
RULING
The
motion is GRANTED.
Defendants
Sylvia McArthur and Douglas McArthur as Trustees are
ordered to respond without objections to plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories and
Special Interrogatories within 20 days.
The
court awards sanctions in favor of plaintiff and against defendants in the
amount of $410 in total for the motion, to be paid within 30 days.

BACKGROUND
On February 27, 2024, plaintiff
Andy Martin filed a complaint against defendants Sylvia McArthur and Douglas
McArthur as trustees of the Sylvia McArthur Trust of 1989 for (1) violation of
Civil Code §51 and (2) violation of Civil Code §§54 and 54.1. The complaint
alleges that plaintiff is a paraplegic, cannot walk, and uses a wheelchair.
Defendants are the owners and lessors of the property at 405 W. Arbor Vitae
Street, Inglewood, which is a sports cards and memorabilia shop. On December
12, 2023, plaintiff went to the sports card and memorabilia shop. While
patronizing the public accommodation, plaintiff encountered an architectural
barrier within the facility in the form of a front step, which precluded him
from entering the business. 
On May 1, 2024, defendants
(self-represented) filed an answer
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Interrogatories
If a party to whom interrogatories
are directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move
for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction.  CCP §2030.290(b).  The statute contains no time limit for a
motion to compel where no responses have been served.  All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served.  Leach v. Superior Court
(1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.  
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff
Andy Martin requests that the court compel defendants to respond to plaintiff’s
Form Interrogatories, Set One and Special Interrogatories, Set One.
Plaintiff
asserts that on June 7, 2024, he propounded his form interrogatories and
special interrogatories via mail on defendants. 
Responses were due by July 11, 2024.  On August 12, 2024, plaintiff’s counsel sent a
meet and confer letter but did not receive a response.  To date, plaintiff has not received any
responses from defendants.
There is
no opposition.
Previously,
on September 17, 2024, the court denied plaintiff’s motion to compel discovery
because there was no proof of service. 
This time, plaintiff included a declaration of mailing with his moving
papers.  The declaration indicates that
the papers were mailed to defendants on November 5, 2024.
The court
finds that the interrogatories were properly served, and that plaintiff failed
to serve responses.  The motion is thus
GRANTED.
Sanctions
Under CCP
§ 2023.030(a), “[t]he court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that
conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction is
authorized by any provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  Under CCP § 2023.010, an example of the misuse of the discovery
process is “(d) Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of
discovery.”
Sanctions
are mandatory in connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories
and requests for production of documents against any party, person, or attorney
who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel unless the court “finds
that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or
that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  CCP
§§ 2030.290(c), 2031.300(c).
Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348(a) states: “The court may award sanctions under the
Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even
though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was
withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after
the motion was filed.”
The
Confusing Claim for the Amount of Sanctions
Plaintiff
requests $2,140 in sanctions (Motion pg. 4:11) (although the Notice of Motion
claims $3,500) against defendant for the motion.  This amount is based on plaintiff’s counsel claim
of spending 7 hours (3 hours preparing the meet and confer letter and the
motion, 1 hour replying to the opposition, and 3 hours preparing for and
attending the hearing) at $500 an hour.
The Court
doubts the veracity of the claimed time. 
Counsel states that he spent 3 hours on a meet and confer letter and
motion.  But this is a motion where no responses
had been served.  Counsel states that on
August 12, 2024 he send a meet and confer letter attempting to obtain discovery
responses.  That letter is one paragraph
covering 4 lines of text.  Little time was
spent on that letter.  The Motion is 1½ pages
in length and purely standard boilerplate for a motion where no discovery
responses have been served.  Little time
is appropriately spent on that motion.  Also,
there is no opposition to the motion.
In short given
the very simply nature of this motion, the Court finds that $350 in fees and
$60 for the filing fee is appropriate.
ORDER
The
motion is GRANTED.
Defendant
Sylvia McArthur and Douglas McArthur as Trustees is ordered to respond without
objections to plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories and Special Interrogatories
within 20 days.
The court
awards sanctions in favor of plaintiff and against defendants in the amount of
$410 in total for the motion, to be paid within 30 days.
Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of ruling.