  Case Number:  21PSCV00485    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  G Plaintiff Graciela Torres’s Motion for Preliminary
Approval of Class Action Settlement
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff Graciela Torres’s Motion for Preliminary
Approval of Class Action Settlement is GRANTED with the following modification.
To the extent the proposed order states the deadline for the Settlement
Administrator to complete the first mailing of the notice packets is within ten
(10) days after the receipt of Class Data, the number of days is changed to
seven (7) days as stated in the Settlement Agreement.
BACKGROUND
This is a wage and hour
action. From 1999 to 2020, Plaintiff Graciela Torres worked as a non-exempt
employee for Defendant Pensar Big, Inc. (Pensar Big), a restaurant operator and
franchisee of El Pollo Loco chains throughout southern California.
On June 10, 2021, Torres
filed a complaint against Pensar Big and Does 1-50, alleging a cause of action pursuant
to the Private Attorneys’ General Act (PAGA) for Labor Code violations.
On September 26, 2023, Torres
filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) against the same defendants alleging the following
causes of action: (1) failure to pay regular wages, (2) failure to pay minimum
wage, (3) failure to pay overtime wages, (4) meal period violations, (5) rest
period violations, (6) failure to provide accurate itemized wage statements,
(7) failure to pay wages during employment and upon termination of employment, (8)
failure to reimburse for business expenses, (9) failure to provide personnel
records, (10) failure to provide payroll records, (11) unfair competition, and (12)
PAGA penalties.
On October 2, 2023, Torres
filed the present motion. A hearing on the motion is set for October 24.
ANALYSIS
Torres moves for an order
granting preliminary approval of the proposed settlement with Pensar Big on the
terms and conditions set forth in an executed copy of
the Settlement Agreement that is attached as Exhibit A to the declaration of
Mehrdad Bokhour. (Bokhour Decl., Ex. A.)
Specifically, Torres requests
the court: (1) preliminarily approve the Settlement Agreement, (2) conditionally
certify the Settlement Class as “all current and former individuals who are or
previously were employed by [Pensar Big] in California who were classified as
non-exempt employees under California law during the Class Period (i.e., April
8, 2020 through May 15, 2023),” (3) preliminarily appoint Torres as the Class
Representative, (4) preliminarily appoint Mehrdad Bokhour, Esq. of Bokhour Law
Group, P.C. and Jake Finkel, Esq. of The Finkel Firm as Class Counsel, (5)
approve the proposed notice packet attached as Exhibit A to the Settlement
Agreement, (6) direct mailing of the notice packet pursuant to the terms of the
Settlement Agreement provided the agreement complies with the requirements of
due process and appears to be the best notice practicable under the
circumstances, (7) preliminarily approves the definition and disposition of the
Gross Settlement Amount, (8) confirm the appointment of a settlement administrator,
(9) direct Pensar Big to provide class data to settlement administrator, (10)
approve the handling of unclaimed funds as set forth in the Settlement
Agreement, and (11) set a final approval hearing.
The Proposed Order sets forth
the following timeline: (1) within fifteen days after notice of entry of the
court’s preliminary approval, Pensar Big shall provide the settlement
administrator with the class data, (2) within ten days after receipt of the
class data, the settlement administrator shall complete the first mailing of
notice packets to all class members, (3) within forty-five days after the
mailing of the notice packet, all requests for exclusion and objections to the
settlement must be submitted, (4) with at least sixteen court days before the
final approval hearing, Torres must file and serve a motion for final approval
of settlement (including application for award of attorneys’ fees, costs, and
service payment), (5) with at least nine court days before the final approval
hearing, any written opposition or response to an objection to the Settlement
must be filed, and (6) with at least five court days before the final approval
hearing, any written reply to any opposition must be filed.
For the following reasons,
the court GRANTS Torres’ motion.
Legal Standard
California
Rules of Court Rule 3.769, subdivision (g) provides that the court must conduct
an inquiry into the fairness of a proposed class action settlement prior to
final approval. The court has broad powers to determine whether a proposed
settlement is fair. (Mallick v. Superior Court (1979) 89 Cal.App.3d 434,
438.) The standard for approval of class settlements is that the settlement be
fair, reasonable, and adequate for class members overall. (Dunk v. Ford
Motor Co. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 1794, 1801 (Dunk).)
To
determine the fairness of a settlement, the court must consider certain
factors, as set forth in Wershba v. Apple Computer, Inc. (2001) 91
Cal.App.4th 224, 244-45 (Wershba), disapproved on other grounds by Hernandez
v. Restoration Hardware, Inc. (2018) 4 Cal.5th 260, 270). “[A] presumption
of fairness exists where: (1) the settlement is reached through arm’s-length
bargaining; (2) investigation and discovery are sufficient to allow counsel and
the court to act intelligently; (3) counsel is experienced in similar
litigation; and (4) the percentage of objectors is small.” (Id., at p.
245, quoting Dunk, supra, 48 Cal.App.4th at p. 1802.) “[T]he test
is not the maximum amount plaintiffs might have obtained at trial on the
complaint, but rather whether the settlement is reasonable under all of the
circumstances.”  (Id., at p. 250.)
In
making this determination, the court considers all relevant factors, including
“the strength of [the] plaintiffs’ case, the risk, expense, complexity and
likely duration of further litigation, the risk of maintaining class action
status through trial, the amount offered in settlement, the extent of discovery
completed and the stage of the proceedings, the experience and views of
counsel, the presence of a governmental participant, and the reaction of the
class members to the proposed settlement.’” (Kullar v. Foot Locker Retail,
Inc. (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 116, 128.) The recovery should represent a
“reasonable compromise, given the magnitude and apparent merit of the claims
being released, discounted by the risks and expenses of attempting to establish
and collect on those claims by pursuing the litigation.” (Id., at
p. 129.) Nevertheless, the strength of the case on the merits for the plaintiff
is the most important factor, “balanced against the amount offered in
settlement.” (Id., at p. 130, quoting City of Detroit v. Grinnell
Corp. (2d Cir. 1974) 495 F.2d 448, 455.)
Discussion
Terms
of the Settlement Agreement
An
executed copy of the Settlement Agreement is attached as Exhibit A to the
declaration of Mehrdad Bokhour. (Bokhour Decl., Ex. A.) Each member, including Torres,
agreed to release all Released Class Claims against any Released Party during
the Class Release Period. (Bokhour Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 52-53.) Notice will be given
to each member. (Bokhour Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 66.) The release included any claim
pled in the operative complaint. (Bokhour Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 4.) The release also
included any PAGA claims based on allegations stated in the PAGA notice and any
that were or could have been pled in the FAC based on the facts alleged.
(Bokhour Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 22, 59.)
The
Gross Settlement Amount (GSA) is $240,000, not including payroll taxes. (Bokhour
Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 48(a).) Uncashed checks will be sent to the Unclaimed Property
Fund. (Bokhour Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 75.) The settlement is to be apportioned as
follows: up to $80,000 in attorney fees from the GSA not to exceed one-third of
the GSA (Bokhour Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 48(g)); up to $15,000 in litigation costs
(Bokhour Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 48(g)); up to $7,500 in settlement administration fees
and costs (Bokhour Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 48(h)); up to $10,000 as a service award for
Torres (Bokhour Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 48(f)); a $10,000 PAGA payment with $7,500
(75%) going to the LWDA and $2,500 (25%) going to eligible aggrieved employees
(Bokhour Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 48(d)(i).); and the remaining net settlement amount to
class members.
Including
PAGA payments, the final net settlement amount is $120,000. (Bokhour Decl., ¶
11.) The settlement class consists of 238 individuals. (Bokhour Decl., ¶ 12.)
Individual settlement payments will be paid on a pro-rata basis that considers
the number of compensable work weeks worked during the class period. (Bokhour
Decl., ¶ 12.) The final average settlement payment per class member is $505
with an estimated highest payment being $1,453. (Bokhour Decl., ¶ 12.) Pensar
Big is responsible for any employer payroll taxes. (Bokhour Decl., ¶ 48(a).)
The
parties stipulate to the selection of ILYM Group, Inc. (ILYM) as settlement
administrator. (Bokhour Decl., ¶ 59.) Within fifteen calendar days of the
court’s preliminary approval of this settlement, Pensar Big will provide class
data to ILYM and ILYM will provide notice to the class members within seven
days after that data is received. (Bokhour Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 65-66.)
Fairness
and Reasonableness of the Settlement
The
parties engaged in mediation on December 9, 2022, with Gail Glick and
negotiated a settlement agreement. (Bokhour Decl., ¶ 19.) At times, the
parties’ negotiations were adversarial and non-collusive and were the result of
extensive arm’s length negotiations. (Bokhour Decl., ¶ 48.) The settlement
occurred after parties participated in informal discovery where information was
exchanged relating to applicable policies and procedures, payroll and time
keeping records, class size, compensation policies and practices, and potential
value of the case. (Bokhour Decl., ¶ 18.) Taking into account Pensar Big’s
defenses and the risks of ongoing litigation, Torres’ counsel estimates the
total risk-adjusted penalties and damages amount to $286,128. (Bokhour Decl., ¶
47.) Torres’ counsel are also experienced in wage and hour litigation. (Bokhour
Decl., ¶ 3-9; Finkel Decl., ¶ 3-9.) Accordingly, the court finds the proposed
settlement of $240,000 is adequate, fair, reasonable, and follows sufficient
investigation and discovery.
Conditional
Certification of Settlement Class
“[T]wo
requirements must be met in order to sustain any class action: (1) there must
be an ascertainable class [Citations]; and (2) there must be a well-defined
community of interest in the questions of law and fact involved affecting the
parties to be represented [Citations].” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967)
67 Cal.2d 695, 704.) “The community of interest requirement embodies three
factors: (1) predominant common questions of law or fact; (2) class
representatives with claims or defenses typical of the class; and (3) class
representatives who can adequately represent the class.” (Richmond v. Dart
Industries, Inc. (1981) 29 Cal.3d 462, 470.)
In
this case, there is an ascertainable class in the form of 238 non-exempt
employees who worked for Pensar Big during the class period from April 8, 2020
to May 15, 2023 in California. (Bokhour Decl., ¶ 12, Ex. A, ¶ 7.) There is also
a well-defined community of interest as the members of the class were subject
to common policies and practices relating to the provision of meals and rest
periods as well as the payment of wages. Accordingly, the court grants Torres’
request for conditional certification of the settlement class.
Approval
of Notice Packet and Procedures
Content
of Notice
The
content of the proposed Class Notice filed with the court on October 2, 2023,
as Exhibit B to the declaration of Mehrdad Bokhour appears to be acceptable. It
includes the following: a summary of the litigation; the nature of the
settlement; the terms of the settlement agreement; the proposed deductions from
the gross settlement amount (attorney fees and costs, PAGA penalties, service
payment, and claims administration costs); the procedures and deadlines for
participating in, opting out of, or objecting to, the settlement; the
consequences of participating in, opting out of, or objecting to, the
settlement; and the date, time, and place of the final approval hearing.
Method
of Notice
Notice will be sent by first
class mail in English and Spanish. (Bokhour Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 66.) No more than fifteen
calendar days after entry of the Preliminary Approval Order, Pensar Big will
provide the Settlement Administrator with the Class Data. (Bokhour Decl., Ex.
A, ¶ 65.) After receiving the Class Data, the Settlement Administrator will
perform a check on the United States Postal Service’s National Change of
Address List to update the Class Members’ addresses. (Bokhour Decl., Ex. A, ¶
65.) No more than seven calendar days after receiving the Class Data from Pensar
Big, the Settlement Administrator will mail copies of the Class Notice to all
Class Members and PAGA Members by first class mail. (Bokhour Decl., Ex. A, ¶
66.) If any envelopes are returned, the Settlement Administrator will use
standard devices to obtain forwarding information, including a skip trace. (Bokhour
Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 66-67.) It an envelope has not been returned within thirty days
of mailing, it will be presumed that the Class Member received notice. (Bokhour
Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 68.) The court finds the notice procedure proper.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, the court
GRANTS Torres’ Motion for Preliminary Approval of Class Action
Settlement as discussed above and as provided in the Proposed Order with the
following modification. To the extent the proposed order states the deadline
for the Settlement Administrator to complete the first mailing of the notice
packets is within ten days after the receipt of Class Data, the number of days
is changed to seven days as stated in the Settlement Agreement. (Compare Proposed
Order, ¶ 15, with Bokhour Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 66.) 
