  Case Number:  20STCV30564    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



 JANE DOE L.P., 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
DOWNEY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 20STCV30564
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING IN PART MOTION
  TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
July 11, 2024



 
On December 11, 2023, Plaintiff
Jane Doe L.P. served a Notice of Taking Deposition of Defendant Downey Unified School
District’s Person Most Knowledgeable and Fact Witness Principal Tom Houts and Request
for Production of Documents (“RFPs”) on Defendant Downey Unified School District.  On February 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion
to compel further responses to RFP No. 4.
At
the March 19, 2024, hearing, the Court found that some information about K.G., such
as that related to Defendant’s knowledge of his prior similar misconduct and need
for supervision, may be relevant.  However,
the Court found that RFP No. 4 was overbroad. 
The Court also noted that the request infringed on K.G.’s privacy rights
without giving him notice before the disclosure.  Accordingly, the Court continued the hearing,
ordered the parties to meet and confer about the scope of RFP No. 4, and ordered
Defendant to provide K.G.’s guardian’s last known address and phone number to Plaintiff
so that Plaintiff could provide notice of the motion and the continued hearing date.
On
May 3, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel filed a supplemental declaration.  Plaintiff has served K.G.’s guardian with notice
of the motion via U.S. mail and email.  (Baldermann
Suppl. Decl. ¶ 13 & Ex. 13.)  Since the
last hearing, Plaintiff and Defendant have been discussing the scope of RFP No.
4.  (Baldermann Suppl. Decl. ¶¶ 6-10.)  However, from April 18, 2024 through May 1, 2024,
Defendant’s counsel stopped responding to Plaintiff’s counsel.  (Baldermann Suppl. Decl. ¶ 11.)
At
the June 4, 2024 hearing, the Court ordered supplemental briefing and continued
the hearing.  Defendant timely filed a supplemental
brief with exhibits.  One of these exhibits
is an email from K.G’s guardian in response to a conversation with Defendant’s counsel,
which states, “I do not Authorize Downey Unified School District to release [K.G.’s]
school records.  And also [K.G.] will be pleading
the Fifth Amendment.”  (Evenstad Decl., Ex.
D.)
As
propounded, RFP No. 4 requests “Any and all SCHOOL RECORDS in YOUR possession, custody
or control for K.G.”  “SCHOOL RECORDS” is
defined as “any and all written notes, memos, reports, or other writings regarding
a student including but not limited to report cards, progress reports, letters,
notes, nurses’ notes, attendance records, health records, incident reports, IEP
reports, correspondence, class schedules, or any other written material having anything
whatsoever to do with the student in YOUR possession, custody or control.”
Defendant’s
last specific offer (March 26, 2024) was for K.G.’s “student profile, enrollment
history, attendance history, entry into the special education program dates, and
the September 2019 IEP outlining the supervision/services that his IEP called for
at the time of the incident.”  (Baldermann
Suppl. Decl. ¶ 6 & Ex. 7.)  On April 23,
2024, Defendant’s counsel communicated that she “think[s] the production should
be limited to the IEP in place at the time of the incident, which is really the
only thing that would meet the ‘directly relevant’ standard.”  (Evenstad Supple Decl., Ex. C.)
Plaintiff’s
last request (April 25, 2024) was for “K.G.’s student profile, enrollment history,
class schedule for the 2019-2020 school year, entry into the special education program
dates, IEP/504 Triennial Plans for the time period of August 1, 2012 - December
6, 2019, behavioral and psychosocial reports up until December 6, 2019, Disciplinary
Records from August 1, 2012 - December 6, 2019, if any, which shall include written/recording
verbal warnings, written warnings, incident reports, suspensions, detentions, complaints
regarding behavioral issues and incidents, reprimands, and any similar admonishments
of inappropriate behavior demonstrated by K.G.” 
(Baldermann Suppl. Decl. ¶ 10 & Ex. 11.)
In
its supplemental opposition, Defendant now asks the Court to limit the production
to “K.G.’s student profile with his demographic information and enrollment history
and special education program information, which includes the special education
programs and dates from 2011 through the time of the incident; K.G.’s September
2019 IEP; and K.G.’s discipline history from the start of summer school 2019 until
the incident, which is the only time that plaintiff and K.G. attended Downey High
School.”  (Suppl. Opposition at p. 4.)
Defendant
contends that it “cannot offer more or less supervision of a student where it is
not called for in an IEP and agreed to by the parent,” and “a school cannot implement
any special education program or provide services to a child if the parent doesn’t
agree to them.”  (Suppl. Opposition at pp.
6-7.)  However, Defendant focuses only on
the IEP’s requirement of parental consent to the provision of special education
and related services, not Defendant’s general duty to supervise and protect against
foreseeable harms for all students.  (See
id. at pp. 6-8 [citing Education Code sections 56340, 56341, 56341.1, 56345].)  “California courts have long recognized that a
student may recover for injuries proximately caused by a breach of [a school’s]
duty to supervise.”  (M. W. v. Panama Buena
Vista Union School Dist. (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 508, 518.)  “The existence of a duty of care of a school district
toward a student depends, in part, on whether the particular harm to the student
is reasonably foreseeable.”  (Ibid.)  The harm may be foreseeable when the alleged perpetrator
was repeatedly disciplined for “grave acts of defiance and inappropriate and violent
behavior.”  (Id. at p. 520.)
Plaintiff
alleges that on December 6, 2019, her one-on-one aide abandoned her, resulting in
Plaintiff being assaulted by K.G.  (Complaint
¶ 22.)  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant “negligently
failed to carry out its duties to properly and adequately supervise Plaintiff L.P.”
and “failed to discipline, investigate, warn, appropriately supervise, or suspend
[K.G.] despite having actual or constructive knowledge that he had engaged in inappropriate
conduct with other minor student.”  (Complaint
¶¶ 23, 46.)  Accordingly, Defendant’s limitation
to K.G’s student profile, September 2019 IEP, and discipline history from summer
2019 is too narrow.  The limitation for K.G.’s
discipline history for “the only time that plaintiff and K.G. attended Downey High
School” is particularly too narrow if Defendant had additional knowledge of K.G.’s
behavior from prior attendance at other schools in Defendant’s district.
The
motion to compel further is GRANTED IN PART.
Defendant
is ordered to respond to RFP No. 4 by producing the following documents to Plaintiff
within 30 days:  K.G.’s student profile; enrollment
history; class schedule for the 2019-2020 school year; dates of entry into the special
education program; IEP/504 Triennial Plans for the time period of August 1, 2012
to December 6, 2019; behavioral and psychosocial reports up until December 6, 2019;
and Disciplinary Records from August 1, 2012 to December 6, 2019, if any, including
written/recording verbal warnings, written warnings, incident reports, suspensions,
detentions, complaints regarding behavioral issues and incidents, reprimands, and
any similar admonishments of inappropriate behavior demonstrated by K.G.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 11th day of July 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 