 Case Number:  24STCV02961    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



BLAKE GRABOWSKI, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
BETTER EARTH, INC., et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


CASE NO.: 24STCV02961;
  24STCV02800
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION FOR ORDER
  OF APPOINTMENT OF SUCCESSOR-IN-INTEREST
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
July 11, 2024



 
On
February 5, 2024, Plaintiff Blake Grabowski filed this action against Defendants
Better Earth Inc. and others.
On
April 23, 2024, this case and other cases were consolidated with Nicholas Leinbach
v. Better Earth, Inc., et al. (Case No. 24STCV02800), with Leinbach designated
as the lead case.  The Court ordered that
all future documents be filed under Case No. 24STCV02800, and case numbers on all
subsequent filings should be reflected under the lead case.
On
June 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for order to appoint Amanda Grabowski as
successor-in-interest for Plaintiff, who is now deceased.  (Defendants’ evidentiary objections are overruled.)
The
motion was properly filed in Case No. 24STCV02800, but the hearing reservation was
made in Case No. 24STCV02961.  All future
documents and hearing reservations must be in Case No. 24STCV02800 or else the Court
will strike the filings or take the motions off calendar.
“A
cause of action that survives the death of the person entitled to commence an action
or proceeding passes to the decedent’s successor in interest . . . and an action
may be commenced by the decedent’s personal representatives or, if none, by the
decedent’s successor in interest.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 377.30.)  After the death of
a plaintiff, the court, on motion, shall allow a pending action that does not abate
to be continued by the decedent’s personal representative or successor-in-interest.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.31.)
The
person who seeks to commence or continue a pending action as the decedent’s successor
in interest shall execute and file an affidavit or declaration that includes (1)
the decedent’s name; (2) the date and place of decedent’s death; (3) “No proceeding
is now pending in California for administration of the decedent’s estate”; (4) a
copy of the final order showing the distribution of the decedent’s cause of action
to the successor-in-interest, if the decedent’s estate was administered; (5) either
the declarant is the decedent’s successor in interest or the declarant is authorized
to act on behalf of the decedent’s successor in interest, with facts in support
thereof; (6) “No other person has a superior right to commence the action or proceeding
or to be substituted for the decedent in the pending action or proceeding”; and
(7) that the statements are true, under penalty of perjury.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32, subd. (a).)  The affidavit or declaration must attach a certified
copy of the decedent’s death certificate. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32, subd. (c).)
Amanda
Eve Grabowski declares that Plaintiff was pronounced dead on May 4, 2024, in Detroit,
Michigan.  (Amanda Grabowski Decl. ¶ 2.)  Plaintiff had no significant other and no children.  (Amanda Grabowski Decl. ¶ 3.)  He lived with Amanda for nine months after returning
to Michigan, and they remained close until his passing.  (Amanda Grabowski Decl. ¶ 3.)  Plaintiff had no living will.  (Amanda Grabowski Decl. ¶ 4.)  His immediate family consists of his father (Andrew
Grabowski), brother (Andrew Grabowski), and Amanda.  (Amanda Grabowski Decl. ¶ 4.)  According to Amanda, “Decedent’s family has appointed
me as successor in interest due to my close relationship with Blake throughout his
life.”  (Amanda Grabowski Decl. ¶ 4.)  She declares that she is “the decedent’s successor
in interest and succeeds to the decedent’s interest in the action or proceeding,”
and she is “authorized to handle, manage, and dispose of any and all property belonging
to the estate of the decedent.”  (Amanda Grabowski
Decl. ¶ 3 [sic].)  According to Amanda, “[n]o
other person has a superior right to commence the action or proceeding or to be
substituted for the decedent in the pending action or proceeding,” and “[n]o proceeding
is now pending in California for administration of the decedent’s estate.”  (Amanda Grabowski Decl. ¶¶ 5-6.)
Plaintiff’s
father “understand[s] that as Blake’s father [he] would be the decedent’s successor
in interest in this action or proceeding following California’s intestate laws.”  (Andrew Grabowski Decl. ¶ 4.)  However, he declares that “Decedent’s family,
including myself, have instead appointed Amanda Grabowski as successor in interest
due to her close relationship with Blake throughout his life.”  (Andrew Grabowski Decl. ¶ 4 [sic].)  Plaintiff’s father “accordingly denounce[s] [his]
claim as successor in interest, and instead appoint[s] Amanda Grabowski in [his]
place.”  (Andrew Grabowski Decl. ¶ 3 [sic].)
The
declarants provide a certified copy of Plaintiff’s Certificate of Death from Wayne
County, Michigan.  (Andrew Grabowski Decl.,
Ex. A.)
The
disposition of a decedent’s intangible personal property is controlled by the law
of the domicile.  (In re Moore’s Estate
(1961) 190 Cal.App.2d 833, 843; see Civ. Code, § 946.)  Accordingly, Plaintiff’s estate administration
is governed by Michigan, not California, law. 
The motion cites no Michigan law about intestate succession and who is Plaintiff’s
rightful heir under Michigan law.
Regardless
of the intestacy state law that is applied, the motion does not comply with the
requirements for substituting a successor-in-interest in this case under California
law.
Plaintiff’s
sister and father both declare that Plaintiff had “no living will.”  Generally, a living will documents a person’s
desire to not be kept alive by artificial means or heroic measures.  (See, e.g., Bartling v. Glendale Adventist
Medical Center (1986) 184 Cal.App.3d 961, 966.)  The declarations therefore do not establish that
Plaintiff died without a testamentary will and do not establish who has inherited
Plaintiff’s claims in this action.
The
motion states that “the administration of the estate has closed.”  If Plaintiff did have an estate that was administered,
the motion must include a copy of the final order showing the distribution of the
decedent’s cause of action to the successor-in-interest.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32, subd. (c).)
Under
California law, Plaintiff’s father would be Plaintiff’s heir.  (Prob. Code, § 6402, subd. (b).)  Plaintiff’s father may disclaim his interest in
Plaintiff’s estate.  (See Prob. Code, § 282.)  If he did so, then Plaintiff’s estate would pass
to Plaintiff’s siblings.  (Prob. Code, § 6402,
subd. (c).)  There is no declaration from
Plaintiff’s brother.  Plaintiff’s father and
sister cannot alone “appoint” Amanda to be Plaintiff’s successor-in-interest.  Accordingly, under California law, it is not true
that “[n]o other person has a superior right to commence the action or proceeding
or to be substituted for the decedent in the pending action or proceeding.”  Although not cited in the motion, this appears
to also be the order of succession under Michigan law.  (Mich. Comp. Laws Ann. § 700.2103, subds. (b)-(c).)
Due
to these deficiencies, the motion is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 11th day of July 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 
 