 Case Number:  21STCP04124    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



CASA MEXICO ENTERPRISES, LLC, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
ERIC GERARDO LEYVA-BUCCIO, et al.,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 21STCP04124
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO SEAL
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
July 11, 2024



 
On
May 6, 2024, Cross-Defendant Oscar de la Hoya filed a redacted Trial Brief and redacted
supporting documents.  Cross-Defendant also
filed a motion to seal.
At
the original hearing on the motion, the Court continued the hearing to allow Cross-Defendant
to lodge the unredacted items and file a supplemental declaration.
A
record must not be filed under seal without a court order, and a party requesting
that a record be filed under seal must file a motion or an application for an order
sealing the record.  (California Rules of
Court, rule 2.551(a)-(b).)  The party requesting
sealing must also file a public redacted version and lodge conditionally under seal
with the court a complete, unredacted version. 
(California Rules of Court, rule 2.551(b)(4)-(b)(5).)
The Court may order that a record be filed under seal
only if it finds that (1) there is an overriding interest that overcomes the right
of public access to the record, (2) the overriding interest supports sealing the
record, (3) a substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be
prejudiced absent sealing, (4) the proposed sealing is narrowly tailored, and (5)
no less restrictive means exists to achieve the overriding interest.  (California Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d).)  A motion seeking an order sealing records must
be accompanied by a declaration containing facts sufficient to justify the sealing.  (California Rules of Court, rule 2.551(b)(1).)
Counsel’s declaration states that the redacted information
consists of “highly personal, potentially embarrassing, and confidential information
belonging to De La Hoya and Cross-Complainant Ruccione, as well as third parties.”  (Troupson Suppl. Decl. ¶ 6.)  Counsel provides detailed summaries of each document
that is redacted in whole or part.  The redacted
portions of the brief include descriptions of sexual activity, sexual encounters,
romantic life, and physical health.  (Troupson
Suppl. Decl. ¶ 7.)  The redacted portions
of the accompanying exhibits include that information in the brief as well as email
addresses, phone numbers, references to medical history, references to use of illicit
drugs.  (Troupson Suppl. Decl. ¶ 8.)
The
Court finds that there is an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public
access to the record, that overriding interest supports sealing this record, and
a substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced
absent sealing.  The request is also narrowly
tailored, redacting only the necessary portions of the exhibits and brief.  Where exhibits are fully redacted, those exhibits
solely consist of the private information and cannot be redacted in part.
Accordingly, the motion to seal is GRANTED.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 11th day of July 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 