 Case Number:  22STCV23104    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JENNIFER BORNOFF, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
STATE FARM GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV23104
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION FOR NEW
  TRIAL
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
July 11, 2024



 
On
July 15, 2022, Plaintiff Jennifer Bornoff filed this action against Defendant State
Farm General Insurance Company, alleging breach of contract and breach of the covenant
of good faith and fair dealing.
On
November 28, 2023, Defendant filed a motion for summary judgment.
On
April 23, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s motion for summary judgment, noting
that “[a]ll of Defendant’s material facts are undisputed.”  Plaintiff had admitted that all benefits under
the policy were paid, and therefore the first cause of action was moot.  For the second cause of action, the Court concluded
that Defendant met its initial burden of showing that Plaintiff did not suffer any
detriment due its claims handling, and Plaintiff failed to raise any triable issue
of material fact.  The Court entered judgment
in favor of Defendant and against Plaintiff on May 16, 2024.
On
May 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Notice of Intent to File a Motion for New Trial,
and on May 31, 2024, she filed her memorandum of points and authorities.
DISCUSSION
A
verdict may be vacated and a new trial ordered due to irregularity in the proceedings
that prevented a party from having a fair trial, misconduct of the jury, accident
or surprise, newly discovered evidence, excessive or inadequate damages, insufficiency
of the evidence to justify the verdict, or error in law.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 657.)
Plaintiff
argues that the Court abused its discretion by denying her due process when the
issue of detriment and economic loss was raised for the first time in the Court’s
tentative ruling.  (Motion at pp. 4-7.)  Plaintiff also argues that she did suffer economic
harm.  (Id. at pp. 8-14.)
A.        Plaintiff’s Lack of Economic Harm Was
Placed at Issue by the Motion and Opposition.
Plaintiff
argues that “Plaintiff was not given adequate notice that the Court would grant
summary adjudication on the ground that she did not suffer economic harm because
this Defendant did not raise this issue in its moving papers,” and “Defendant’s
statement of facts (and its motion) did not put the Plaintiff on notice that it
was necessary to overcome this issue to defeat’s the Defendants motion.”  (Motion at p. 6.)
Defendant’s
argument began, “Plaintiff’s breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing (‘bad faith’) cause of action fails as a matter of law because: (1) bad
faith does not exist where no policy benefits are owed; and (2) bad faith cannot
be established where the failure to pay policy benefits was reasonable.”  (MSJ at p. 5.)  Citing the Undisputed Material Facts—all of which
were undisputed by Plaintiff—Defendant argued, “Plaintiff cannot show that State
Farm unreasonably withheld any benefits, failed to pay any benefits, or refused
to pay her any benefits as State Farm paid Plaintiff all of the benefits she was
entitled to under the Policy, State Farm never denied any part of her claim, Plaintiff
never disputed the amount of benefits she was paid, and Plaintiff admitted she was
paid all of the benefits she was owed.”  (Id.
at p. 6.)  On this basis, the Court determined
that Defendant met its initial burden.
In
opposition, Plaintiff cited Brehm v. 21st Century Ins. Co. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th
1225 (Brehm) to frame the disputed issues as, “The issues that remains now
from a liability standpoint is whether State Farm improperly handled Plaintiff’s
two claims, and whether its improper claims handling caused detriment to Plaintiff.”  (MSJ Opposition at pp. 10-11.)  Notably, Plaintiff quoted Brehm for the
same legal proposition that the Court later set forth in its order: “[B]reach of
a specific provision of the contract is not a necessary prerequisite to a claim
for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. . . . [E]ven
an insurer that pays the full limits of its policy may be liable for breach of the
implied covenant if improper claims handling causes detriment to the insured.”  (Id. at p. 11; MSJ Order at p. 5.)
Thus,
it was Plaintiff herself who introduced the issue of detriment caused by Defendant’s
claim handling.
Plaintiff
then argued that Defendant’s delay was unreasonable.  (MSJ Opposition at pp. 11-22.)  Relying on her declaration, Plaintiff contended
that the delay caused her to lose some of her exclusive merchants and experience
financial hardships (“she exhausted her savings, she borrowed her mother’s credit
card to purchase merchandise, she borrowed money from a family member, and she used
money that she raised in a Go-Fund-Me campaign to keep her business alive”).  (Id. at p. 21.)  Despite providing this declaration—implicitly
acknowledging that she needed to provide evidence of detriment caused by the delay—Plaintiff
did not include any evidence of economic losses as a result of the hardships.  Additionally, Plaintiff never disputed the amount
she was paid for business personal property losses, never disputed the loss of income
calculation, and admitted that Defendant paid all benefits to which she was entitled.  (UMF 12, 22-23.)
In
sum, Plaintiff was fully on notice that she needed to prove that Defendant’s delay
in claims payment caused detriment.  Plaintiff
raised this issue herself and had a full and fair opportunity to present evidence
to prove that she suffered a detriment.  Plaintiff
failed to do so.
B.        Plaintiff Did Not Present Evidence of
Economic Harm When Opposing the Motion.
Plaintiff
argues that “[t]he record available to the Court at the hearing did not include
detailed evidence regarding Plaintiff’s economic losses because the Defendant chose
not to make it an issue in its moving papers.” 
(Motion at p. 8.)  As discussed above,
Plaintiff’s detriment and economic losses were at issue in the original motion and
Plaintiff’s opposition.
Plaintiff
cites portions of the transcript from the summary judgment hearing to argue that
she did not have an opportunity to brief the issue of economic loss and she could
have provided that evidence.  (Motion at pp.
4-6.)  Plaintiff now declares that she incurred
$1,419.08 in credit card interest due to Defendant’s delayed payment, and Defendant
did not reimburse this amount.  (J. Bornoff
Decl. ¶¶ 13, 15.)
First,
“a judge’s comments in oral argument may never be used to impeach the final order,
however valuable to illustrate the court’s theory they might be under some circumstances.”  (Jespersen v. Zubiate-Beauchamp (2003)
114 Cal.App.4th 624, 633.)
Second,
the Court’s order on summary judgment depends on the evidence presented in support
of and in opposition to the motion.  (See
Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds. (b)(2), (c).) 
The Court noted this limitation during the hearing.  (Zietz Decl., Ex. 1 at p. 13 [“You know, I can
draw inferences and I would draw inferences in favor of the non-moving party, but
I can’t speculate in favor of the non-moving party.  The decision on a summary judgment is based on
the record before me in court.”].)  Plaintiff’s
counsel admitted at the hearing that information about the credit card was available
and that Plaintiff testified about it.  (Zietz
Decl., Ex. 1 at pp. 11, 13, 20.)  He also
admitted that “the fact that, yes, the code requires that there’s an economic loss.”  (Id. at p. 21.)  Yet, despite raising the issue of Plaintiff’s
detriment caused by Defendant’s delayed payments, Plaintiff failed to provide evidence
of this detriment in opposition to the motion.
The
motion for new trial is denied.
CONCLUSION
The
motion for new trial is DENIED.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 11th day of July 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 