  Case Number:  22STCV38301    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




forex express corp., d/b/a
   wirecash

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
inter & co. payments,
   inc., f/k/a pronto money transfer, inc., d/b/a pontual

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV38301




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


October
   11, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s motion for order to show cause
  re contempt and revocation of pro hac vice status
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Eliran Grushkowsky         
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Forex Express Corp., d/b/a WireCash
Motion for Order to Show Cause re Contempt and Revocation of Pro Hac
Vice Status 
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
DISCUSSION
Defendant Eliran Grushkowsky (“Defendant”) requests that the court (1)
set an Order to Show Cause re contempt and revocation of pro hac vice status of
counsel for plaintiff Forex Express Corp., d/b/a WireCash (“Plaintiff”), (2)
issue an order (i) adjudging attorneys James Ancone and Scott C. Ferrier to be
in contempt of court, and (ii) imposing a $1,000 fine, to be paid to the court by
attorneys Ancone and Ferrier, and (3) issue an order revoking the pro hac vice
status of attorneys James Ancone, Scott C. Ferrier, Douglas R. Hirsch, Samuel
J. Leiberman, and Kathleen D. Reilly.  
1.    
Request for Order to Show Cause re Contempt
“California courts have inherent power to ‘take appropriate action to
secure compliance with . . . orders, to punish contempt, and to control its
proceedings.’”  (Vidrio v. Hernandez (2009)
172 Cal.App.4th 1443, 1454.)  An act of
contempt is either direct or indirect.  (Moore
v. Superior Court of Orange County (2020) 57 Cal.App.5th 441, 454.)  An act of direct contempt committed in the
presence of the court may be punished summarily.  (Ibid.; Code Civ. Proc., § 1211, subd.
(a).)  In contrast, “[a]n ‘indirect
contempt’ requires a sequential series of steps:      (1) an affidavit is presented to the court
of the facts constituting the contempt; (2) a warrant of attachment or order to
show cause is issued; (3) service of the warrant order; (4) if there is a
warrant . . . , arrest and bail may occur; (5) a hearing, at which the judge
investigates the charge and hears any answers, including witnesses; and (6)
findings and punishment.”  (Moore,
supra, 57 Cal.App.5th at p. 454; Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1211, 1212.) 
Defendant asserts that Plaintiff’s attorneys have committed acts of
indirect contempt based on the following conduct: (1) attorney Ancone’s mailing
a Shareholder Notice regarding a shareholder meeting for Plaintiff to Defendant
on February 29, 2024; (2) the conducting of a shareholder meeting for Plaintiff
by attorneys Ancone and Ferrier, during which they discussed the facts of this
action while Defendant was present by telephone; (3) attorney Ferrier’s sending
a cease-and-desist letter to Defendant in his capacity as affiliated with
MassPay Incorporated (“MassPay”); and (4) attorney Ancone’s conduct during the
deposition of Plaintiff’s person most knowledgeable.  (Notice of Mot., pp. 2:18-3:3, 4:15-17.)  Defendant contends that this conduct
constitutes contempt under Code of Civil Procedure section 1209, subdivisions
(a)(3), (a)(5), and (a)(9).  
As a threshold matter, the court notes that Plaintiff argues, in its
opposition, that Defendant’s request for a contempt order must be denied
because he has not alleged that Plaintiff or its attorneys violated a court
order.  (Opp., p. 11:20-21.)  The court disagrees. “Violating a court order
is a ‘ “common example” ’ of indirect contempt [citation]; it is not the only
conduct upon which indirect contempt proceedings may be brought.”  (Moore, supra, 57 Cal.App.5th
at p. 456 [internal citation omitted]; Code Civ. Proc., § 1209, subd. (a)
[describing acts and omissions that are contempts of the authority of the
court].)  The court therefore evaluates
whether Defendant has presented an affidavit containing facts sufficient to
allege that Plaintiff’s attorneys may have committed an act contempt.  The court finds that Defendant has not done
so. 
The court has reviewed the affidavits of Defendant and Defendant’s
counsel, in which they state, inter alia, that (1) on March 14, 2024,
attorney Ancone conducted a shareholder meeting on behalf of Plaintiff, and
began the meeting by discussing the subject matter of this case; (2) Defendant
received a cease-and-desist letter dated May 29, 2024 from attorney Ferrier and
addressed to Defendant as “CTO” of MassPay; and (3) during the deposition of
Plaintiff’s person most qualified, attorney Ancone (i) objected that questions
were “asked and answered” on at least 76 occasions, but (ii) later withdrew his
instructions not to answer pursuant to this objection, and (iii) instructed
Jonathan Cooper not to reveal the name of the forensic analyst who handled
Defendant’s WireCash laptop.  (Grushkowsky
Decl., ¶¶ 9, 14-15; Grushkowsky Decl., Ex. B, p. 1 [letter re “Cease &
Desist Use of WireCash Trade Secrets & Tortious Interference with
WireCash’s Business,” addressed to Defendant, “CTO”]; Murphy Decl., ¶¶ 22-24.)  The court finds that the conduct alleged in the
affidavits do not constitute contempt of court. 
First, the court finds that this conduct does not state facts
sufficient to allege that Plaintiff’s attorneys engaged in the “[m]isbehavior
in office or other willful neglect or violation of duty” because (1) Defendant
did not cite authority establishing that alleged violations of the Rules of
Professional Conduct constitute misbehavior, willful neglect, or violation of a
duty within the meaning of section 1209, and (2) the court finds that the affidavits
do not contain facts sufficient to constitute misbehavior, willful neglect, or
violation of a duty of counsel.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1209, subd. (a)(3); Notice of Mot., p. 2:11 [citing section 1209,
subdivision (a)(3).) 
Second, the court finds that (1) the affidavits do not state facts
sufficient to allege that Plaintiff’s attorneys engaged in the “[d]isobedience
of any lawful judgment, order, or process of the court[,]” and (2) Defendant
did not sufficiently identify a judgment, order, or process of the court that
Plaintiff’s attorneys allegedly disobeyed. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1209, subd. (a)(5); Notice of Mot., p. 2:12 [citing
section 1209, subdivision (a)(5).) 
As to the second point, the court notes that Defendant has argued that
Plaintiff’s attorneys have violated California Rules of Court, rule 9.40—which
constitutes a process or proceeding of the court—by violating the Rules of
Professional Conduct.  The court
acknowledges that          (1) “[a]n inexcusable failure to comply with
the rules or orders made by a court pertaining to the orderly conduct of
judicial proceedings before it constitutes an unlawful interference with the proceedings
of the court” and therefore “is punishable as a contempt of the authority of
the court,” and (2) “[a] rule of procedure adopted by the Judicial Council
within its constitutional or statutory grant of power for the conduct of a
judicial proceeding before a court is a rule of the court within the purview of
Code Civ. Proc., sec. 128, subd. (3) . . . .” 
(Cantillon v. Superior Court in and for Los Angeles County (1957)
150 Cal.App.2d 184, 188.)  The court
further acknowledges that rule 9.40 requires a person permitted to appear as
counsel pro hac vice thereunder must “comply with the standards of professional
conduct required of licensees of the State Bar of California . . . .”  (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 9.40, subd.
(f).)  
However, Defendant did not present (1) argument and analysis
establishing that rule 9.40 is a rule of procedure adopted “for the conduct of
a judicial proceeding before a court[,]” such that any alleged violation
thereof can constitute contempt of court, or (2) authority establishing that
other courts have held that a violation of rule 9.40 constitutes disobedience
of the process of the court.  Thus, the
court finds that Defendant has not shown that the conduct described in the
affidavits filed in support of this motion allege facts sufficient to
constitute contempt.  The court further
finds, as set forth above, that the facts alleged in the affidavits regarding
the conduct of  Ancone at the deposition
of Plaintiff’s person most knowledgeable do not allege the disobedience of the
process of the court. 
Third, the court finds that the affidavits do not state facts
sufficient to allege that Plaintiff’s attorneys engaged in the “unlawful
interference with the process or proceedings of a court.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
1209, subd. (a)(9); Notice of Mot., p. 2:12 [citing section 1209, subdivision
(a)(9).)  Moreover, as set forth above, even
if the court were to find that the affidavits stated facts sufficient to allege
violations of the Rules of Professional Conduct, Defendant did not present
argument or authority establishing that an alleged violation of the Rules of
Professional Conduct (and therefore an alleged violation of California Rules of
Court, rule 9.40) constitutes unlawful interference with the process or
proceedings of a court. 
The court therefore denies Defendant’s request that the court set an
Order to Show Cause re contempt.  The
court further denies Defendant’s request that the court adjudge attorneys Ancone
and Ferrier to be in contempt of court and imposing a $1,000 fine against them.

2.    
Revocation of Pro Hac Vice Status
The court notes that Defendant’s notice of motion appears to both
request (1) an Order to Show Cause re Revocation of Pro Hac Vice Status, and
(2) an order revoking the pro hac vice status of Plaintiff’s attorneys.  (Notice of Mot., pp. 2:4-6, 3:1-2.)  Defendant did not cite authority establishing
that the court must set an Order to Show Cause on this matter.  The court therefore evaluates the merits of
Defendant’s request for an order revoking the Plaintiff’s attorneys’ pro hac
vice status. 
As a threshold matter, the court finds that it has the authority to
revoke the pro hac vice status of Plaintiff’s attorneys upon a showing that
they have engaged in conduct that would subject them to disqualification.  (Sheller v. Superior Court (2008) 158
Cal.App.4th 1697, 1716 [“[A] California trial court’s inherent powers include
the authority to revoke an attorney’s pro hac vice status when that
attorney has engaged in conduct that would be sufficient to disqualify a
California attorney”].)  The court therefore
evaluates whether the evidence shows that disqualification of Plaintiff’s
attorneys is appropriate.  The court
finds that it does not.
“A court’s authority to disqualify a lawyer in a pending proceeding
derives from its inherent power to regulate the conduct of court officers,
including attorneys, in furtherance of the sound administration of
justice.”  (City of San Diego v.
Superior Court (2018) 30 Cal.App.5th 457, 469-470.)  The court notes that, while “courts analyzing
questions of disqualification may obtain guidance from the Rules of
Professional Conduct,” “‘the California State Bar’s Rules of Professional
Conduct govern attorney discipline; they do not create standards for
disqualification in the courts.’”  (Antelope
Valley Groundwater Cases (2018) 30 Cal.App.5th 602, 621.)  “Instead, what the court must do is focus on
identifying an appropriate remedy for whatever improper effect the
attorney’s misconduct may have had in the case before it.”  (San Francisco United School Dist. ex rel.
Contreras v. First Student, Inc. (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 1212, 1231
[internal quotation marks and citation omitted].) 
Defendant asserts that disqualification (and therefore revocation of
counsel’s pro hac vice status) is appropriate on the ground that Plaintiff’s
attorneys engaged in three acts of ex parte communications with Defendant and
engaged in misconduct at deposition. 
Specifically, Defendant contends that Plaintiff’s attorneys had improper
ex parte communications with Defendant in violation of rule 4.2 of the Rules of
Professional Conduct on three occasions: (1) on February 29, 2024, when Ancone
mailed a Shareholder Notice regarding Plaintiff’s shareholder meeting to
Defendant; (2) on March 14, 2024, when attorneys Ancone and Ferrier conducted
the shareholder meeting and discussed information relating to this action; and
(3) on May 29, 2024, when Ferrier sent a cease-and-desist letter to Defendant
as CTO of MassPay.  (Cal. Rules of Prof.
Conduct, rule 4.2, subd. (a) [“In representing a client, a lawyer shall not
communicate directly or indirectly about the subject of the representation with
a person* the lawyer knows* to be represented by another lawyer in the matter,
unless the lawyer has the consent of the other lawyer”].) 
First, Defendant contends that (1) at issue in Defendant’s
cross-complaint[1] is
nonparty John Makoff’s encouragement to monetize Plaintiff’s assets and Jonathan
Cooper’s failure to do so, and (2) the February 29, 2024 Shareholder Notice
proposed for discussion the topics of removing John Makoff from the Board and
reelecting Jonathan Cooper to the Board, such that these topics “related
directly to the issues raised” in the pleadings filed in this action and
therefore constitute an improper ex parte communication between counsel and
Defendant.  (Mot., p. 10:22-27.)  The court disagrees. 
Defendant has alleged, in both the original cross-complaint that he filed
on February 5, 2024 (i.e., the operative pleading at the time the conduct of
which he complains occurred) and in the First Amended Cross-Complaint that he
filed on October 4, 2024, that John Makoff demanded cross-defendant Cooper find
a way to monetize Plaintiff’s assets, but that cross-defendant Jonathan Cooper
failed to do so.  (Def. Feb. 5, 2024
Cross-Compl., ¶¶ 29-30; Def. Oct. 4, 2024 FACC ¶¶ 38-42.)  The court acknowledges that the February 29,
2024 “Notice of Special Meeting of the Stockholders of Forex Express Corp.”
proposed the removal of John Makoff from the Board, without cause.  (Grushkowsky Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 1.)  But (1) this letter was signed by Jonathan
Cooper as president of Plaintiff, and not counsel for Plaintiff,
irrespective of who may have mailed the letter, and (2) in any event, Defendant
has not shown that the removal of John Makoff constitutes the subject of this
action, as Defendant has not cited allegations in the pleadings establishing
that the removal or election of John Makoff as a member of the Board is an
issue in this case.  (Grushkowsky Decl.,
Ex. A, p. 2; Ancone Decl., ¶ 5 [at Ancone’s direction, a paralegal in the law
firm mailed the Shareholder Notice to Defendant]; Rules of Prof. Conduct, rule
4.2, subd. (a); Comment 2 to Rules of Prof. Conduct, rule 4.2 [noting that rule
4.2 “applies to communications with any person*” “who is represented by counsel
“concerning the matter to which the communication relates”].) 
Second, Defendant asserts that, at the shareholder meeting of March
14, 2024, attorneys Ancone and Ferrier “discussed the facts of this case” to
Defendant directly.  (Mot., p.
11:15-17.)  In support of this assertion,
Defendant has submitted his declaration, in which he states that     (1) “Ancone began the meeting by discussing
[Plaintiff’s] pending litigation against [him] and the subject matter of this
case[,]” (2) Defendant thereafter informed Ancone that his attorney was
present, and (3) one of the attorneys disconnected Defendant’s counsel from the
call after his counsel refused to leave. 
(Grushkowsky Decl., ¶ 9.)  The
court finds that Defendant’s declaration, which is conclusory and does not
contain specific facts regarding the alleged statements made by counsel, is
insufficient to show that Plaintiff’s attorneys directly communicated with
Defendant about the subject of this action in violation of rule 4.2.  
Moreover, the court notes that Plaintiff has submitted the declarations
of Ancone and Ferrier, in which they state that (1) Ancone advised, at the shareholder’s
meeting, that (i) he would not be taking questions because Plaintiff is
currently engaged in litigation, (ii) the lawsuit and its court filings are
publicly available, except to the extent that trade secrets are redacted, and
(iii) Plaintiff has alleged that Defendant stole its source code and breached
his fiduciary duties to Plaintiff, (2) that advisement was “the only time
[Ancone] mentioned the lawsuit at the shareholder meeting” and there “was . . .
no ‘discussion’ of the lawsuit at the shareholder meeting[,]” and (3) Ferrier
attended the meeting, but he did not speak at the meeting and “did not say
anything to” Defendant or any other shareholder.  (Ancone Decl., ¶¶ 13-14; Ferrier Decl., ¶
3.)  Ferrier also reiterates that “[n]o
one in attendance discussed the facts of this litigation.”  (Ferrier Decl., ¶ 3.)  The court finds that Ferrier and Ancone’s
statements on these issues are credible, and therefore finds that Plaintiff’s
counsel did not engage in prohibited ex parte communications with Defendant in
violation of rule 4.2 at the shareholder meeting conducted on March 14, 2024. 
Third, Defendant has submitted a copy of the letter entitled “Cease
& Desist Use of WireCash Trade Secrets & Tortious Interference with
WireCash’s Business” and dated May 29, 2024. 
(Grushkowsky Decl., Ex. B, p. 1.) 
The cease-and-desist letter (1) addresses Defendant as “CTO[;]” (2) asserts
that its contents concern “the ongoing serious violations of state and federal
law by” MassPay, Defendant, and nonparty Jeffrey Katz; (3) asserts that
Defendant violated his obligations to Plaintiff and misused its trade secrets
for use in MassPay’s products; and (4) is signed by attorney Ferrier.
While the court notes that this letter alleges that Defendant has
misused Plaintiff’s trade secrets—which Plaintiff alleges in this action (See,
e.g., SAC ¶ 122)—the letter asserts that, “[s]pecifically,” Defendant, “through
MassPay,” developed a platform nearly identical to Plaintiff’s, deployed
Plaintiff’s source code in MassPay’s products, and solicited Plaintiff’s
employees and investors to join MassPay, and therefore appears to relate to
Defendant’s conduct in relation to MassPay, which is not a subject of this
action.  (Grushkowsky Decl., Ex. B, pp. 1
[emphasis added], 2.)  Further, as set
forth above, this letter appears to be addressed to Defendant in his capacity
as CTO for MassPay (rather than in his individual capacity), and further
appears to have been sent to MassPay, rather than Defendant directly.  (Grushkowsky Decl., Ex. B, p. 1; Ferrier
Decl., ¶ 10 [“The cease-and-desist letter was sent to the address listed as
MassPay’s headquarters and not to the home addresses of any of its founders or
officers”].)  Thus, the court finds that the
cease-and-desist letter does not constitute an improper ex parte communication
in violation of rule 4.2. 
Further, even if the court were to find that Plaintiff’s counsel’s acts
in mailing the Shareholder Notice, conducting the Shareholder Meeting, and
sending the cease-and-desist letter to MassPay constituted improper ex parte
communications between counsel and Defendant, the court finds that
disqualification would not be appropriate because there is not a genuine
likelihood that such conduct will affect the outcome of the proceedings before
the court.  (City of San Diego, supra,
30 Cal.App.5th at p. 471 [“the prophylactic nature of the disqualification
remedy means the focus of the analysis must be on ‘whether there exists a
genuine likelihood that the status or misconduct of the attorney in question
will affect the outcome of the proceedings before the court’”] [internal
citation omitted]; Baugh v. Garl (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 737, 744 [stating
that “[d]isqualification is only justified where the misconduct will have a
‘continuing effect’ on judicial proceedings”].)  Moreover, after considering other factors,
such as Plaintiff’s right to choose its counsel, counsel’s interest in
representing Plaintiff, and the financial burden on Plaintiff to replace
counsel, the court finds that disqualification would not be appropriate even if
the court had concluded that counsel for Plaintiff engaged in ex parte
communications with Defendant as argued by Defendant in his motion.  (People ex rel. Dept. of Corporations v.
SpeeDee Oil Change Systems, Inc. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1135, 1144-1145.)  
Fourth, Defendant asserts that attorney Ancone engaged in misconduct
at the deposition of Plaintiff’s person most qualified (1) by asserting “asked
and answered” objections on at least 76 occasions, (2) by instructing Cooper
not to answer questions on this ground nine times, and (3) by instructing
Cooper not to reveal the name of the forensic analyst who handled Defendant’s
WireCash laptop.  Defendant contends that
this conduct violated rules 3.2 and 3.4 of the Rules of Professional Conduct. 
The court finds that the evidence does not show that attorney Ancone
(1) engaged in conduct that had no substantial purpose other than to delay or
prolong the deposition in violation of rule 3.2, or (2) unlawfully obstructed
Defendant’s access to evidence in violation of rule 3.4.  (Rules of Prof. Conduct, rules 3.2 [a lawyer
shall not use means that have no substantial purpose other than to delay or
prolong the proceeding or to cause needless expense], 3.4, subds. (a) [a lawyer
shall not unlawfully obstruct another party’s access to evidence], (b) [a
lawyer shall not suppress evidence that the lawyer or his client has a legal
obligation to reveal or produce].)  
Moreover, even if the court found that this conduct violated rules 3.2
and 3.4 of the Rules of Professional Conduct, the court finds that
disqualification and revocation of counsel’s pro hac vice status would not be
an appropriate remedy because (1) any such violation will not have a
substantial continuing effect on the outcome of the proceedings, (2) other
appropriate remedies exist to address the harm caused by the failure of
Plaintiff’s person most qualified to respond to deposition questions under the
Civil Discovery Act (e.g., a motion to compel deposition answers), and (3) other
considerations, such as Plaintiff’s right to chose its counsel, its attorneys’
interest in representing Plaintiff, and the financial burden on Plaintiff to
retain new counsel, weigh against disqualification.  (City of San Diego, supra, 30
Cal.App.5th at p. 472; SpeeDee Oil Change Systems, Inc., supra,
20 Cal.4th at pp. 1144-1145.) 
The court therefore finds that Defendant (1) has not shown that
Plaintiff’s attorneys have engaged in conduct that would subject them to
disqualification, and therefore (2) has not shown that the court should revoke
their pro hac vice status.  (Sheller,
supra, 158 Cal.App.4th at p. 1716.) 
The court therefore denies Defendant’s request that the court revoke the
pro hac vice status of attorneys Ancone, Ferrier, Hirsch, Lieberman, and
Reilly.
ORDER
            The court denies defendant Eliran
Grushkowsky’s motion for order to show cause re contempt and for revocation of
pro hac vice status.
            The court orders plaintiff Forex
Express Corp., d/b/a WireCash to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:  October 11, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


