  Case Number:  23TRCV02548    Hearing Date:   September 5, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 September 5, 2024
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23TRCV02548
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Katelyn
Dow Stepanyan v. General Motors LLC, et al. 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant,
General Motors, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiff,
Katelyn Dow Stepanyan 
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set. 
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Compel
Defendant’s Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One
                                                (2) Motion to Compel
Defendant’s Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set
One    
                                                
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED in part and
DENIED in part.
                                                (2) CONTINUED to a
date in October to be scheduled with both counsel available.   The parties are ordered to meet and confer pursuant to the
guidelines provided by this Court below, and Plaintiff is ordered to file a
Separate Statement after the completion of the Court-ordered further meet and
confer, consistent with the direction given by the Court in this Tentative
Ruling.
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
On August 7, 2023, Plaintiff, Katelyn Dow Stepanyan
(“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendant, General Motors, LLC and DOES
1 through 20 (“GM”). On February 21, 2024, this Court SUSTAINED the previous
demurrer as to the original complaint and also ruled that the motion to strike
portions of the original complaint was mooted by the sustaining of the
demurrer. On March 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
alleging causes of action for: (1) Fraud – Concealment; (2) Business &
Professions Code § 17200; (3) Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty;
(4) Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act – breach of Implied Warranty; and (5)
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act – Civil Code § 1793.2(b). On April 22, 2024,
Defendant GM filed another demurrer and motion to strike the FAC. On August 9,
2024, this Court SUSTAINED, with leave to amend. 
 
On February 8, 2024, Plaintiff states that she served
Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Requests for Production of Documents, Set
One on Defendant, GM. On March 11, 2024, Plaintiff asserts that GM served
deficient and unverified responses. As such, on March 29, 2024, Plaintiff’s
counsel sent Defense counsel a detailed meet and confer letter discussing
Defendant’s responses and failure to produce a single document. In the letter,
Plaintiff’s counsel notes that he requested a response within seven (7) days. 
 
On April 10, 2024, Plaintiff notes that GM made their
first and only production of documents, which was allegedly incomplete and
therefore inadequate to respond to Plaintiff’s propounded discovery.
Thereafter, Plaintiff’s counsel sent another meet and confer letter on May 15,
2024, discussing Defendant’s inadequate responses and failure to produce
documents. Plaintiff’s counsel again requested a response within seven (7)
days, and also signed Defendant’s stipulation and protective order. However,
Plaintiff’s counsel notes that Defense counsel never responded to the second
meet and confer letter. Thus, Plaintiff has brought these two Motions to Compel
GM’s further responses to both Special Interrogatories, Set One and Requests
for Production of Documents, Set One. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On May 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed its
Motions to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One and
Requests for Production of Documents, Set One. On August 22, 2024, GM filed
opposition briefs to both. On August 28, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply briefs
to both oppositions. 
 
¿II. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Legal
Standard 
 
A party must respond to interrogatories within 30 days after
service. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260, subd. (a).) If a party to whom
interrogatories are directed does not provide timely responses, the requesting
party may move for an order compelling responses to the discovery. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) The party also waives the right to make any
objections, including one based on privilege or work-product protection. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) There is no time limit for a motion to
compel responses to interrogatories other than the cut-off on hearing discovery
motions 15 days before trial. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020, subd. (a); Code
Civ. Proc., 2030.290.) No meet and confer efforts are required before filing a
motion to compel responses to the discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290; Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 390, 41
“Unless otherwise limited by order
of the court in accordance with this title, any party may obtain discovery
regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter
involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in
that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code
of Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) For discovery purposes, information is regarded as
relevant “if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case,
preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement thereof.” (City of Los
Angeles v. Superior Court (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 272, 288.)  
A motion to compel further
responses to a demand for inspection or production of documents (“RFP”) may be
brought based on: (1) incomplete statements of compliance; (2) inadequate,
evasive, or incomplete claims of inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or
overly generalized objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(c).) A
motion to compel further production must set forth specific facts showing good
cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand. (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310(b)(1).) In Digital Music News LLC v Superior Court
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 216 at 224, the Court defined “good cause” as a showing
that there “a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action and the
discovery sought will tend in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to
other evidence that will tend to prove or disprove the fact.” If the
moving party has shown good cause for the requests for production, the burden
is on the objecting party to justify the objections. (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct
(2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92, 98.) ¿ 
"The court shall limit the
scope of discovery if it determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness
of that discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought
will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence." (Cal. Code of Civ.
Proc. § 2017.020(a).) Generally, objections on the ground of burden require the
objecting party to produce evidence of (a) the propounding party's subjective
intent to create burden or (b) the amount of time and effort it would take to
respond. (See West Pico Furniture Co. of Los Angeles v. Superior Court In
and For Los Angeles County (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.) However, no such
evidence is necessary where discovery is obviously overbroad on its face. (See Obregon
v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431.)
B.    Discussion 
 
Meet and Confer Efforts 
 
            In both of GM’s
opposition briefs, it argues that Plaintiff failed to meet and confer in good
faith prior to bringing these motions. GM contends that Plaintiff’s letter
cannot be deemed a genuine effort to meet and confer, because that letter did
not try to resolve any dispute, and instead, simply declared the remaining
requests at issue valid, declared GM’s objections invalid, and demanded that GM
supplement its previous responses, which contained documents relevant to the
pending claim and defenses.         
 
            Moreover, GM
argues that when it responded to Plaintiff’s letter, offering to produce
additional information and participate in an informal discovery conference to
resolve any disputes, Plaintiff ignored GM. The Court disagrees based on a
reading of the declaration of GM’s counsel, Sandra Habib (“Habib Decl.”). The
Habib declaration indicates that on April 10, 2024, when GM responded to the
first meet and confer letter, GM confirmed it would be standing by its
objections, directing Plaintiff to specific documents responsive to her
request, and agreeing to produce additional information, including specific
information subject to the parties’ stipulated protective order. (Habib Decl.,
¶ 5.) The Habib Decl., however, does not indicate that GM responded to
Plaintiff’s second meet and confer letter. 
Thus, this Court finds that notes that Plaintiff’s counsel attempted to
meet and prior to bringing these two motions. 
 
 
Special Interrogatories
 
            Plaintiff seeks
this Court to order further responses to Special Interrogatories Nos.
14, 20, 23, 25, 26, 39, 41, and 43. The Court will discuss each below. 
 
Special
Interrogatory No. 14, 20, 23: These interrogatories asks GM to identify all
persons who performed warranty repairs upon the subject vehicle, who inspected
or tested the subject vehicle during the relevant period, and who have
knowledge of Plaintiff’s notices of defect. 
 
To
each of these requests, GM objected generally on the grounds of terms being
vague, ambiguous, and overbroad. However, GM also noted that it referred
Plaintiff to the documents it has produced in responses to Plaintiff’s Requests
for Production of Documents, particularly, and Service Request Activity
Report(s), the Global Warranty History Report for the subject vehicle, and any
repair orders that GM may have obtained from GM-authorized dealerships who may
have serviced, maintained, or repaired the subject vehicle. GM asserted that
these documents identified the individuals, transactions, including dates and
times, of which GM is familiar regarding the subject vehicle. 
 
            Plaintiff is requesting further
responses to this request on the grounds he argues that a complete response
identifying all of the service technicians is necessary. The Court disagrees, provided
that the names of the technicians are contained on the dealer repair records that
GM produced with its written responses. 
Even though it may be authorized to perform warranty work on a GM
vehicle, an authorized dealer is an independent business, its employees are not
GM employees, and absent a further showing GM has no better idea as to
inspected, or measured, or tested, or diagnosed, or repaired the subject
vehicle than any other person who reads the dealer repair records.  It would be a sufficient response for GM to reference
Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.230 and produce the documents from which the
answer to the interrogatory can be found. 

 
However,
with respect to those persons who have knowledge of Plaintiff’s “notice of DEFECT,”
the defect, the Court sustains GM’s vagueness and ambiguity objection.  If the interrogatory seeks the identify of persons
other than the service advisor and technicians listed on the repair records,
such as what employee of GM received notification that Plaintiff claimed to
have a defect in the SUBJECT VEHICLE, the interrogatory is vaguely
written.  Plaintiff certainly is entitled
to know who, other than the dealer employees to whom Plaintiff reported her
repair complaints or who observed, diagnosed, and attempted to remedy those complaints,
received notice of the existence of a claimed defect.  But absent some further showing or argument, it
is not clear whether Plaintiff is seeking the identifies of any GM employee who
processed a warranty clam as to a claimed defect, or who read the vehicle’s
repair records either before or after the lawsuit was filed, or something else.  The Court thus tentatively denied the motion
to compel a further response as to these three interrogatories.   
 
Special
Interrogatory No. 25: This interrogatory asks GM to identify all persons
responsible for the customer relations department in the district or region
having jurisdiction over Plaintiff’s complaint during the relevant period.
 
            GM objected to this interrogatory on
the grounds the terms “customer relations department” and “jurisdiction” are
vague and ambiguous, and that the interrogatory seeks information which is
irrelevant and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
information as it is not limited to the subject vehicle or the issue in this
action. The Court disagrees that the terms identified by GM are vague and
ambiguous, and overrules GM’s objections. 
The term “customer relations department” is not vague in the context of
Lemon Law litigation to mean the employees or department who receives and
responds to concerns or complaints from GM customers, and the term “jurisdiction”
means the common dictionary definition of a person with authority or responsibility
in the relevant geographic area.  As such, the
Court GRANTS the motion to compel SRO 25 and orders GM is to provide a further,
verified, code-compliant answer without objection on or before September 26,
2024. 
 
Special
Interrogatory No. 26: This interrogatory seeks GM to identify its present
employee in California who is most knowledgeable regarding GM’s warranty
policies, including but not limited to any policies GM may have had regarding
the replacement or reimbursement of alleged defective automobiles during the
relevant periods. 
 
            GM objected to this interrogatory on
the grounds it argued the term “defective automobiles” is vague, ambiguous, and
overbroad. 
 
The Court sustains
the objection.  The interrogatory as
phrased appears to seek to identify a person or persons in California who is knowledgeable
as to GM’s policies for warranty administration or compliance including any
policies as to the circumstances under which GM will or should replace or
refund allegedly defective motor vehicles under the Song-Beverly Act, but that
is not what Plaintiff asked for.  The Court
denies the motion as to SROG 26 without prejudice to Plaintiff asking a
better-phrased question.  
 
Special
Interrogatory No. 39: This interrogatory seeks GM to identify the
individuals whose responsibility it is to supervise to ensure that GM is
properly determining whether a vehicle should be repurchased or replaced
pursuant to the Song-Beverly Warranty Act. 
 
            GM objected on the grounds it argued
that the interrogatory is overbroad, vague, ambiguous, irrelevant, and not
reasonably calculated to lead to discovery of admissible evidence, as it is not
limited to the subject vehicle or the issues in this litigation. The Court
disagrees and Defendant’s objections are overruled, except that the overbreadth
objection has merit so the Court will limit the relevant time period to calendar
year 2023 before the August 7, 2023 date the Complaint was filed in this action.  The interrogatory plainly seeks the identity
of a person who oversees or supervises repurchase or buy-back decisions under the
Song-Beverly Act.  This is relevant and discoverable
as bearing on Plaintiff’s allegations that Defendant willfully failed to comply
with its repurchase or replacement obligations. The motion is GRANTED at the
SRO 39, and GM is to provide further, verified, code-compliant answer on or
before September 26, 2024.
 
Special
Interrogatory No. 41: This interrogatory asks GM to identify all person(s)
involved in GM’s investigation, including any individuals with whom GM
communicated regarding the subject vehicle. 
 
            GM objected on the grounds that this
interrogatory was overbroad, vague, ambiguous, irrelevant, and not reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, but referred
Plaintiff to the documents it produced in response to Plaintiff’s Requests for
Production of Documents, Set One, particularly the New Vehicle Limited
Warranty, any Service Request Activity Report(s), the Global Warranty History
Report for the subject vehicle, and any repair orders that GM may have obtained
from GM-authorized dealerships who may have serviced, maintained, or repaired
the subject vehicle. 
 
            GM’s objections are sustained.  SROG 41 does not specify what was being
investigated, i.e., whether it was an investigation into the existence of a
defect, the denial of a warranty claim, an investigation as to which dealers
were in volved in the repair of plaintiff’s vehicle, or anything else.   The
motion is DENIED as to this interrogatory.
 
Special
Interrogatory No. 43: This interrogatory asks GM to identify all
individuals responsible for GM’s decision whether or not to repurchase or
replace a subject vehicle.
            
            Again, GM objected on the grounds
that this interrogatory was overbroad, vague, ambiguous, irrelevant, and not
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, but
referred Plaintiff to the documents it produced in response to Plaintiff’s
Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, particularly the New Vehicle
Limited Warranty, any Service Request Activity Report(s), the Global Warranty
History Report for the subject vehicle, and any repair orders that GM may have
obtained from GM-authorized dealerships who may have serviced, maintained, or
repaired the subject vehicle. 
 
            This Court overrules GM’s objections.  The produced documents do not identify any
person responsible for making the decision here. If there is no such person, or
if no such decision was ever made, then GM should so state.  If there was one or more persons responsible for
the decision, GM needs to identify them since she, he, or they may be subject
to deposition. As such, the Court GRANTS the motion and orders GM is to provide
a verified, code-compliant answer on or before September 26, 2024.
  
Requests
for Production of Documents
 
            Preliminarily, this Court notes that
Plaintiff has failed to file a separate statement for this motion. Instead, she
has filed two of the same separate statements as to the Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One. Here, Plaintiff is
seeking further responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One Nos.
16, 17, 20, 24, 28-29, 37-64, 67-70, 73-74, 77-86. As there is no
separate statement filed, this Court CONTINUES the hearing on this motion.  The parties are ordered to meet and confer
pursuant to the guidelines provided by this Court below, and Plaintiff is
ordered to file a Separate Statement after the completion of the Court-ordered
further meet and confer, consistent with the detailed direction given by the
Court in this Tentative Ruling. The Court
will set a new hearing date with both counsel present.  
 
For
purposes of enabling counsel to prepare for oral argument on the documents motion,
the Court sets forth below some basic parameters for what it typically orders
with respect to certain of the discovery requests embraced by this motion. The
Court typically orders and limits production of documents including ESI in a
Song-Beverly single-vehicle case as follows:
 
 
1.     Limiting
the relevant time period of a document category requested to the year during
which the Plaintiff’s pre-litigation demand for repurchase was pending or the
year in which Plaintiff contends that the presentation for repair reached the
threshold for Honda to be required on its own to have determined a buy-back was
required.  In this case, Plaintiff’s RFPs
all ask for the time period which is overly broad.  
2.     Limiting
the scope of requests for data to those relating to the nature of the
Plaintiff’s alleged nonconformity with respect to the Volt battery, not other
systems, aspects, or features of a model year 2020 Chevy Volt.  
3.     Limiting
the scope of the broad definition of “Documents” to limit the obvious burden of
requiring GM to ask each of its employees to search their email accounts for
internal emails that might contain certain search terms.  The Court generally orders the responding
party to identify and produce internal reports, not internal emails, and to
identify and produce external emails such as those to or from the Plaintiff,
plaintiff’s counsel, and the NHTSA.  
4.     Denying
a compelled further response to a discovery request that requires the
responding party to review the subject vehicle’s repair history and respond to
document demands that broadly relate to any complaint raised in the Plaintiff’s
repair history.
5.     Purchase
and/or lease contract concerning the subject vehicle must be produced.
6.     Repair
orders and invoices concerning the subject vehicle must be produced, including
the “accounting” copies showing the hours and dates of activity by dealer
personnel.
7.     Communications
between the plaintiff and the warrantor/manufacturer and/or its servicing
dealers, and communications between Plaintiff and the manufacturer’s factory
representative and/or call center concerning the subject vehicle.
8.     Warranty
claims submitted to and/or approved by Defendant concerning the subject
vehicle.
9.     A
letter or other approval from the Department of Consumer Affairs evidencing certification
of the Defendant’s qualified third-party dispute resolution process, i.e.,
Lemon Arbitration Program compliant with Civil Code section 1793.22(d).
10.  The
applicable Warranty Policy and Procedure Manual published by defendant and
provided to its authorized repair facilities, within the State of California,
for the year the lawsuit was filed.  If a
separate written policy, procedure, or manual exists regarding repurchases or
buy backs appliable to vehicles sold or leased in California, that would also
be required to be produced for the year the lawsuit was filed and/or the year
Plaintiff contends the vehicle became qualified for repurchase (such as upon satisfaction
of the Presentation Element of a Song-Beverly cause of action under Section
1793.2(d)(2) or 1793.22).  Such documents
would be produced subject to a protective order.
11.  Any
internal analysis and/or investigation regarding the primary recurring alleged
defects claimed by plaintiff in her/his vehicle, applicable to the same year,
make and model of the subject vehicle. 
The Court tends to focus on the claimed symptom experienced by the
plaintiff as described in the dealers’ repair records, rather than a broad and
vague characterization of the claimed defect as described by counsel in the
litigation.  For example, if the customer
experienced a black Infotainment screen when shifting in reverse, or a harsh
engagement or clunk of the transmission when accelerating from 2nd
to 3rd gear, those symptoms rather than any other generalized nature
of malfunction of the Infotainment system or transmission would be the
narrowing of scope of such internal analysis or investigation to be
produced.    
12.  Other
customers’ complaints similar to the alleged defects claimed by plaintiff,
limited to vehicles purchased in California for the same year, make and model
of the subject Model year 2020 Chevy Bolt vehicle.  The other customer complaints again would be
limited in scope to the description of the symptom as shown on the dealer
repair records.  
a.      The
Court typically discusses with counsel the type of documents that may be
required and the format for a production of documents such as in a sortable
Excel spreadsheet that lists a compilation or summary of much more voluminous
documents.  The spreadsheet typically
would contain the repair date, the VIN last 6 of the other customers’ vehicle,
the servicing dealer by name, location and/or dealer code, a description of the
customer’s complaint as listed in the warranty claim submission, the determined
cause if any of that complaint or whether no problem or cause was found, and
the correction, repair, or replacement performed if any.
b.     The
Court will not order production of ESI as to other California customers’
complaints of repair issues that occurred on a single occasion in the
plaintiff’s repair history.  Merely
because the Plaintiff experienced a repair issue does not make discovery of
every other California customer’s records for that repair issue reasonable when
considering the needs of the litigation, the importance of that issue to the
issues disputed in this litigation, the amount in controversy, and the costs of
providing the broader scope of discovery sought by Plaintiff.  
13.  Technical
Service Bulletins and/or Recall Notices for vehicles purchased in California
for the same year, make and model of the subject vehicle, for repair complaints
or symptoms mentioned in the repair history of the subject 2020 Chevy Bolt.
 
The Court urges the parties to take into
consideration the above guidelines, as well as this Court’s ruling as to the
Special Interrogatories in order for the parties to hopefully narrow the issues
presented in these discovery motions. 
 
¿¿ 
III. CONCLUSION 
 
For
the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special
Interrogatories is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part. Plaintiff’s Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents is CONTINUED
to a date to be discussed during the September 5, 2024 hearing. 
 