 Case Number:  23SMCV01442    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  P Tentative ruling 
Ammari v. Martinez
et al., Case No. 23SMCV01442
Hearing Date
October 4, 2023 
Defendants
Martinez, Crespo and Enamorado’s Special Motion to Strike (Anti-SLAPP Motion) 
 
Plaintiff Ammari
alleges defendants defamed him publicly by calling him a criminal on social
media. Defendants argue the posts were protected speech and move to strike the
complaint under California’s anti-SLAPP statute. 
 
Courts
resolving an anti-SLAPP motion under Cal. Civ. Code §425.16 follow a two-step
process. Jarrow Formulas, Inc. v.
LaMarche (2003) 31 Cal.4th 728, 733. In prong one, the court determines
whether the conduct underlying the cause of action arises from defendant’s
constitutional rights of free speech or petition. Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal. 5th 376, 395. If moving party fails
to show the conduct is constitutionally protected, the court need not address
prong two. Jarrow, supra, 31 Cal.4th
at 733. 
 
When
analyzing prong one, courts look to allegations in the pleadings to determine
whether the action arises from protected activity. Central Valley
Hospitalists v. Dignity Health (2018) 19 Cal.App.5th 203, 217. A court
cannot “insert into a pleading claims for relief based on allegations of
activities that plaintiffs simply have not identified . . . it is not [a
court’s] role to engage in what would amount to a redrafting of the [pleading]
in order to read that document as alleging conduct that supports a claim that
has not in fact been specifically alleged, and then assess whether the pleading
that we have essentially drafted could survive the anti-SLAPP motion directed
at it.” Id. at 281, citing Medical Marijuana, Inc. v. ProjectCBD.com (2016)
6 Cal.App.5th 602, 621. In the second step, the burden shifts to plaintiff to
show a legally sufficient claim and to prove with admissible evidence a
reasonable probability plaintiff will prevail. E.g., Navellier v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 88.
 
The
motion sets forth an extensive narrative, detailing a dispute between plaintiff
and defendant Martinez in 2020. The motion alleges Martinez’s taco stand was
near to where Ammari worked, and Ammari threatened Martinez. The motion alleges
community activist defendants Enamorado and Crespo posted videos online to
publicize Ammari’s harassment. The narrative detailed in the motion is much
more detailed that what was alleged in the complaint. 
 
Here,
as in Central Valley Hospitalists, via the anti-SLAPP motion, defendants
ask the court to “redraft” the pleading. The complaint alleges defendants “made
several defamatory statements about, of, and concerning Plaintiff including but
not limited to the lie that Plaintiff was a criminal to the public via social
media including YouTube, Instagram, and TikTok.” Complaint ¶6. The complaint
does not include allegations regarding the dispute between Martinez and Ammari
or specific language used in the social media posts. 
 
Defendants’
motion goes beyond providing evidentiary context for plaintiff’s allegations and
asks the court to consider new facts, then, based on those new facts, conclude the
complaint is based on protected activity. The allegations are not specific
enough for the court to determine whether they are based on protected activity,
and it is improper for the court to introduce more specificity on an anti-SLAPP
motion. Under Central Valley Hospitalists and Medical Marijuana,
Inc., the first prong is not fulfilled, and the motion fails. DENIED
without prejudice. 