 Case Number:  20STCV42746    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  GRAHAM KAYE, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  LOS ANGELES COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 20STCV42746  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTIONS TO COMPEL AND MOTION TO DEEM REQUEST FOR ADMISSIONS ADMITTED  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  May 21, 2024  I. MOTIONS TO COMPEL A. Background  Defendant Los Angeles Community College District ("Defendant”) propounded supplemental interrogatories, set one, special interrogatories, set two, and request for production of documents (“RPDs”), set two, and request for admissions, set two, on plaintiff Graham Kaye (“Plaintiff”) on January 30, 2023. To date, Plaintiff has not served responses to Defendant’s discovery. Defendant therefore seeks an order compelling Plaintiff to respond, without objections, to the outstanding discovery and to pay sanctions.  Any opposition was due on or before May 8, 2024; none have been filed.  C. Discussion & Conclusion In terms of the request to compel responses to RFAs, set two, the remedy for failure to serve responses to RFAs is to seek it to be deemed admitted pursuant to CCP § 2033.280(b). CCP § 2033.280 does not contain a provision allowing a party to seek compelled responses. Thus, the Court’s order regarding Defendant’s motions to compel is limited to the interrogatories and RPDs. Because the evidence shows Plaintiff was properly served with discovery and failed to respond, Defendant’s unopposed motions are GRANTED as to the interrogatories and RPDs. Plaintiff is ordered to serve verified responses to defendant Los Angeles Community College District’s (1) supplemental interrogatories, set one, (2) special interrogatories, set two, and (3) RPDs, set two, all without objections, within twenty (20) days. (CCP §§ 2030.290(a),(b), 2031.300(a),(b).) The motion to compel verified responses to RFAs, set two, is DENIED for the reasons stated above.   II. DEEM REQUEST FOR ADMISSIONS ADMITTED Background Defendant propounded requests for admissions (“RFAs”), set two, on Plaintiff on January 30, 2023. Defendant avers that Plaintiff has not served responses to date. Defendant therefore seek an order deeming the RFAs admitted.    Discussion & Conclusion Plaintiff has not filed any opposition to the motion, nor has Plaintiff otherwise demonstrated that a response to the RFAs were served in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220. A failure to oppose a motion may be deemed a consent to the granting of the motion. (CRC, Rule 8.54.) Defendant’s unopposed motion is therefore GRANTED.   Accordingly, defendant Los Angeles Community College District’s RFAs, set two, is deemed admitted against Plaintiff. (CCP §2033.280(b).)      III. SANCTIONS Sanctions are mandatory against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response, unless a court makes certain findings.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290(c), 2031.300(c).) Plaintiff did not file any opposition. However, sanctions may be awarded, even though no opposition was filed, pursuant to CRC 3.1348(a). Further, Where a party fails to provide a timely response to requests for admission, “[i]t is mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.” (CCP § 2033.280, subd. (c).) Defendant seeks sanctions in the amount of $4,500 for each motion.   A court has discretion to award sanctions that are “suitable and necessary to enable the party seeking discovery to obtain the objects of the discovery he seeks” but they should not be punitive in nature or levied for the purposes of punishing an offending party. (Vallbona v. Springer (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1525, 1545.)         Defendant is awarded 1 hour to prepare each motion to compel responses at the reduced rate of $200 per hour, for a total of $800 in attorney fees.  Sanctions are sought and imposed against Plaintiff and/or Plaintiff’s attorney of record, jointly and severally. Plaintiff and/or Plaintiff’s counsel are ordered to pay sanctions to defendant Los Angeles Community College District, by and through counsel of record, in the total amount of $800 within twenty (20) days.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 20th day of May 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   