 Case Number:  21STCV44536    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  JADE CARRASCO, ET AL., Plaintiff(s),  vs.  POSITIVE INVESTMENTS, INC., ET AL.,¿  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV44536  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTIONS TO COMPEL DEPOSITION   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  May 21, 2024  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiff Jade Carrasco, by and through her Guardian Ad Litem Jesse Ronald Carrasco, (“Plaintiff Carrasco”) moves to compel defendants Becky Radgowski, Joseph Radgowski, and Mark Radgowski (collectively, “the Radgowskis”) and Ariana Arambula (“Arambula”) to appear for their depositions.  The Radgowskis and Arambula are in pro per. The motions were initially heard on May 2, 2024, but continued to May 21, 2024 to allow the filing of a supplemental meet and confer declaration within the meaning of CCP § 2025.450(b)(2). (Min. Order, May 2, 2024.) On May 3, 2024, Plaintiff Carrasco’s counsel filed a supplemental declaration meet and confer declaration and notice of the continued hearing date. The Court will now consider the motions on the merits.   II. MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION Legal Standard  CCP § 2025.450(a) provides, “If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”  CCP § 2025.450 requires the Court to compel the deposition unless it finds a valid objection was served under §2025.410. Discussion On December 27, 2023, Plaintiff Carrasco served notices of the depositions of Becky Radgowski and Joseph Radgowski for January 11, 2024, Mark Radgowski for January 12, 2024, and Arambula for January 12, 2024. The Radgowskis and Arambula did not appear for their noticed depositions. There is no evidence that the Radgowskis and Arambula served any valid objections to the deposition notices, nor have these defendants otherwise opposed the motion demonstrating otherwise. Further, there is no evidence that Radgowskis’ and Arambula’s depositions have proceeded since the filing of the instant motion.   Conclusion Therefore, the unopposed motions to compel are GRANTED. (CCP § 2025.450(a).) The Radgowskis and Arambula are ordered to appear for their deposition at a date, time, and location to be noticed by Plaintiff Carrasco, but Plaintiff Carrasco must give at least ten days’ notice of the deposition (notice extended per Code if by other than personal service).  Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 20th day of May 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   