  Case Number:  19STCV34893    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  ARACELI SANCHEZ, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  ALICIA RIVERA, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 19STCV34893  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING UNOPPOSED MOTION TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH IME  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  May 21, 2024  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiff Araceli Sanchez (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant Alicia Rivera (“Defendant”) for damages arising from a motor vehicle incident.   On October 6, 2023, the Court granted Defendant’s unopposed motion to compel Plaintiff’s examination with Barry Ludwig, M.D. (“Dr. Ludwig”) at 2811 Wilshire Boulevard, Suite 508, Santa Monica, CA 90403. (Min. Order, Oct. 6, 2023.) The nature and scope of tests included a brief mental state examination, and a clinical interview of Plaintiff’s prior relevant medical history, review of systems, family medical history, and social history. (Ibid.) Defendant now moves for an order compelling Plaintiff to complete her examination with Dr. Ludwig on the grounds that Plaintiff’s counsel obstructed Dr. Ludwig from completing the examination. Defendant avers Plaintiff was instructed by her counsel from conducting the mental status examination, and to respond to questions regarding Plaintiff’s past medical history, review of systems, family history, or social history.  Defendant now moves for an order compelling Plaintiff to submit to a second physical examination (“IME”) with neurologist Lorne Label, M.D. (“Dr. Label”). Any opposition was due on or before May 8, 2024; none has been filed.   II. MOTION TO COMPEL EXAMINATION Here, the Court finds no basis for Plaintiff to object to a Court-ordered examination now, when Plaintiff previously did not oppose Defendant’s motion to compel the neurological examination, or otherwise object to the proposed tests when it was noticed. Plaintiff also has not opposed this instant motion compelling his compliance with the examination. A failure to oppose a motion may be deemed a consent to the granting of the motion. (CRC, Rule 8.54.)  The Court therefore finds good cause for the neurological examination of Plaintiff to be completed as noticed and previously ordered.  Accordingly, Defendant’s unopposed motion to compel a further examination with Dr. Ludwig for the purposes of completing the examination is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to appear for her examination with Dr. Ludwig at 2811 Wilshire Boulevard, Suite 508, Santa Monica, CA 90403 to complete the outstanding portions of the examination, namely the brief mental state examination portion, and to respond to questions concerning Plaintiff’s relevant medical history, review of systems, family medical history, and social history. The parties must meet and confer to determine the date and time for the examination; if Plaintiff does not meaningfully participate in the meet and confer process, Defendant may unilaterally set the date and time for the examination with at least ten days’ notice to Plaintiff (extended per Code if by other than personal service). The examination as previously detailed in the Notice may not be expanded in connection with the compelled exam.  III. SANCTIONS Defendant seeks sanctions in the amount of $1,500. CCP § 2032.250(b) requires the Court to impose sanctions in connection with a motion to compel physical exam unless the Court finds Plaintiff acted with substantial justification or other circumstances make imposition of sanctions unjust. Here, Plaintiff did not oppose the motion, and otherwise has provided no basis for her counsel interfering with the completion of her examination with Dr. Ludwig.  Defendant is awarded one hour for preparing this motion and one hour for appearing at the hearing all at the requested rate of $240.00 per hour, for a total attorney’s fees award of $480.00. The Court further awards Defendant the motion filing fee of $60.00, as costs.  Sanctions are imposed against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s attorney of record, jointly and severally; they are ordered to pay sanctions to Defendant, by and through counsel of record, in the amount of $540, within twenty (20) days.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 20th day of May 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   