 Case Number:  22STCV12586    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  SHAUNT MIRIKIAN,  Plaintiff(s),  vs.  CHIPOTLE MEXICAN GRILL, INC., ET AL.,   Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV12586  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL MENTAL EXAMINATION  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  May 21, 2024  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiff, Shaunt Mirikian (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendant, Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. (“Defendant”) for injuries Plaintiff allegedly sustained when the door to Defendant’s facility came off its hinges and pulled Plaintiff to the ground. Defendant moves for an order compelling Plaintiff to undergo a mental examination with Arnold Purisch, Psy. D. (“Dr. Purisch”) on June 3, 2024 at 23046 Avenida De La Carlota #600, Laguna Hills, CA 92653.  Any opposition was due on or before May 8, 2024. No opposition has been filed.   II. DISCUSSION  Defendant contends Plaintiff alleges traumatic brain injury, hallucinations, mood swings, disorientation, hallucinations, mental confusion, anxiety, problems focusing, and other cognitive and emotional difficulties as a result of the incident. Plaintiff alleges his psychotic episodes of hallucinations commanding him to cause self-harm arose from the traumatic brain injury. Here, there is no dispute that Plaintiff has placed his mental condition in controversy, and Defendant avers that Plaintiff has agreed to undergo the examination. However, the only issue is that Plaintiff has not confirmed a date for the examination to proceed. Due to this lack of agreement, the primary purpose of this motion appears to be setting a date. Defendant requests June 3, 2024 for the examination to proceed, since Plaintiff has not provided any other alternative dates. Plaintiff did not file any opposition to the motion. A failure to oppose a motion may be deemed a consent to the granting of the motion. (CRC, Rule 8.54.)  III. CONCLUSION Defendant’s unopposed motion for leave to conduct Plaintiff’s mental examination with Dr. Purisch is therefore GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to appear for a mental examination with Dr. Purisch at 23046 Avenida De La Carlota #600, Laguna Hills, CA 92653 on June 3, 2024; the scope and manner of the examination provided in the Notice (Notice. 2:2-17) may not be expanded in connection with this Order. Counsels must meet and confer to determine the time for the June 3, 2024 examination to proceed; if Plaintiff does not meaningfully participate in the meet and confer process, Defendant may unilaterally set the time for the examination to be conducted within ordinary business hours, and must provide Plaintiff with at least ten days’ notice (extended per Code if by other than personal service).   Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 20th day of May 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   