  Case Number:  22SMCV01974    Hearing Date:   September 23, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Kermanshahi v. Orbic Air, Case No. 22SMCV01974
Hearing Date September 23, 2024
Cross-defendant Khaksoy and
Hakakian’s Demurrer to Semler’s First Amended Cross-Complaint
Cross-defendant Orbic Air’s
Demurrer to Semler’s First Amended Cross-Complaint with Motion to Strike Semler’s
First Amended Cross-Complaint
 
Cross-defendants Hakakian and
Khakshoy held a wedding at Saddlerock Ranch, owned by cross-defendant The
Semler Companies (“Semler”). Defendant Orbic Air LLC was hired to fly a
helicopter over the wedding. The helicopter hit a wooden arch constructed by
defendant Butterfly Floral, which struck and killed plaintiffs’ decedent.
 
Semler cross-complained against Orbic
Air and Khaksoy/Hakakian. The First Amended Cross-complaint alleges three
causes of action against Khaksoy and Hakakian: fraud, negligent
misrepresentation and breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing. Against Orbic, Semler alleges: indemnity; contribution and apportionment;
declaratory relief; breach of contract; fraud – intentional misrepresentation; negligence;
negligent misrepresentation; and breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing. 
 
Khaksoy and Hakakian demur. Orbic
demurs and moves to strike the FACC in its entirety, or in the alternative, to
strike punitive damages and fees. 
 
Demurrers
“The function of a demurrer is to
test the sufficiency of the complaint as a matter of law.” Holiday Matinee,
Inc. v. Rambus, Inc. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 1413, 1420. A complaint “is
sufficient if it alleges ultimate rather than evidentiary facts” Doe v. City
of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550, but plaintiff must set forth the
essential facts of the case “with reasonable precision and with particularity
sufficient to acquaint [the] defendant with the nature, source and extent” of
the plaintiff’s claim. Doheny Park Terrace Homeowners Ass’n., Inc. v. Truck
Ins. Exchange (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 1076, 1099. In reviewing the legal sufficiency
of a complaint against a demurrer, a court will treat the demurrer as admitting
all material facts properly pleaded. Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d
311, 318; C & H Foods Co. v. Hartford Ins. Co. (1984) 163 Cal.App.3d
1055, 1062. 
 
Khaksoy and Hakakian’s Demurrer to
Semler’s FACC
Seventh COA: Fraud
“The elements of fraud are (a) a
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c) intent to induce reliance; (d)
justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” Hinesley v. Oakshade Town
Ctr. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294. 

 
Khaksoy and Hakakian argue the FACC
fails to plead sufficient facts. Semler alleges Khaksoy and Hakakian did not
provide the certificate of insurance as agreed, and that they intentionally
misrepresented their compliance when they failed to provide the certification.
FACC paras. 49-50. Semler also alleges Khaksoy and Hakakian intentionally misrepresented
that the certificates they provided to Semler were valid and that Semler was an
additional insured. FACC para. 58. Semler alleges Khaksoy and Hakakian intended
for it to rely on their misrepresentations. FACC para. 63. Semler alleges it relied
on the misrepresentations when it allowed Butterfly Floral onto its property and
when it allowed Orbic to fly over its property. FACC paras. 53, 56. Semler
alleges had it known the truth, it would have not allowed the wedding. FACC
para. 65. Semler finally alleges damages, as it has been denied coverage
because the helicopter was not on the certificate of insurance. FACC para. 57. These
allegations are sufficiently specific to establish the elements for fraud and
intentional misrepresentation. OVERRULED.
 
Sixteenth COA: Negligent Misrepresentation
“Negligent misrepresentation
requires an assertion of fact, falsity of that assertion, and the tortfeasor’s
lack of reasonable grounds for believing the assertion to be true. It also
requires the tortfeasor’s intent to induce reliance, justifiable reliance by
the person to whom the false assertion of fact was made, and damages to that
person. An implied assertion of fact is ‘not enough’ to support liability.” SI
59 LLC v. Variel Warner Ventures, LLC (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 146, 154. For
the same reasons as above, Semler pled sufficient allegations. OVERRULED. 
 
Twenty-Second COA: Breach of
Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
“There
is an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing in every contract that
neither party will do anything which will injure the right of the other to receive
the benefits of the agreement.” Comunale v. Traders & General Ins. Co.
(1958) 50 Cal.2d 654, 658. “The implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing
rests upon the existence of some specific contractual obligation. ‘The covenant
of good faith is read into contracts in order to protect the express covenants
or promises of the contract…’” Racine & Laramie, Ltd. v. Dep’t. of Parks
& Rec. (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 1026, 1031-1032.

 
Semler alleges Khaksoy and Hakakian
failed to provide the certificate of insurance. FACC para. 222. Semler alleges Khaksoy
and Hakakian failed to purchase liability insurance or to verify that Butterfly
and Orbic provided Semler with valid certificates of insurance, as required
under their contract with Semler. FACC para. 223. OVERRULED. Moving parties to
answer within 20 days.
 
Orbic’s Demurrer to Semler’s FACC
Sixth COA: Breach of Contract
The elements required to establish
a cause of action for breach of contract are: (1) existence of a contract; (2)
plaintiff's performance or excuse for nonperformance; (3) defendant's breach;
and (4) resulting damages to the plaintiff. Richman v. Hartley (2014)
224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186. 
 
Semler alleges a contract and that Orbic
Air provided a certificate of aviation insurance. FACC para. 18. Semler alleged
it performed by providing the venue and by permitting Orbic to fly over its
airspace. FACC para. 91. Semler alleges Orbic breached by flying an uninsured
helicopter, instead of an insured one, as agreed. FACC para. 93. Semler alleges
harm, as it is now uninsured and forced to defend this action. FACC para. 206. OVERRULED.
 
Ninth COA: Fraud – Intentional
Misrepresentation
“The elements of fraud are (a) a
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c) intent to induce reliance; (d)
justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” Hinesley v. Oakshade Town
Ctr. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.
 
Semler alleges misrepresentation, as
Orbic provided a certificate of aviation insurance, knowing it did not cover
the helicopter used. FACC para. 90. Semler alleged Orbic intended to induce
reliance by providing the certificate, knowing it did not cover the helicopter
used (FACC para. 98), reasonable reliance on this misrepresentation (FACC para.
91) and damages. FACC para. 93. OVERRULED.
 
Eighteenth COA: Negligent
Misrepresentation
“Negligent misrepresentation
requires an assertion of fact, falsity of that assertion, and the tortfeasor’s
lack of reasonable grounds for believing the assertion to be true. It also
requires the tortfeasor’s intent to induce reliance, justifiable reliance by
the person to whom the false assertion of fact was made, and damages to that
person. An implied assertion of fact is ‘not enough’ to support liability.” SI
59 LLC v. Variel Warner Ventures LLC (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 146, 154. The
same analysis applies as to the intentional misrepresentation cause of action. OVERRULED.
 
Twenty-Second COA: Breach of
Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
Semler alleged it performed under
the contract with Orbic. Semler alleges Orbic purposefully misrepresented that
the helicopter would be insured, which was an express contractual provision. OVERRULED.
 
Orbic’s Motion to Strike Punitive
Damages and Attorneys’ Fees
Orbic argues the FACC should be
stricken because it was untimely by four days, per Minute Order June 18, 2024. Semler’s
FACC was to be filed by June 26, 2024, but was filed July 10, 2024. The court
finds no prejudice due to the de minimis delay.
 
Punitive Damages
To obtain punitive damages, plaintiff
must prove oppression, fraud or malice. Cal. Civ. Code §3294(a). Facts giving
rise to a claim for punitive damages must be pleaded specifically – vague or
conclusory allegations are insufficient. G.D. Searle & Company v.
Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29. Conclusory requests for
punitive damages without factual support are subject to a motion to strike. E.g.,
Cyrus v. Haveson (1976) 65 Cal.App.3d 306, 316-317; Grieves v.
Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 164. Recklessness or negligence,
even gross negligence, are insufficient to support an award of punitive damage
– carelessness or ignorance are not enough. Dawes v. Superior Court
(1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, 88. On a motion to strike, allegations must be
treated as true. E.g., Clauson v. Sup. Ct. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th
1253, 1255. 
 
Semler seeks punitive damages for
the fraud and breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing claims.
Orbic argues the cross-complainant does not allege specific facts sufficient to
support a claim for punitive damages. 
 
Semler alleged: 
·        
Orbic
misrepresented that the helicopter was insured, knowing the insurance did not
cover the helicopter, or that Semler could not be an additional insured on its
policy. FACC para. 90. 
·        
Orbic
intentionally misrepresented that the helicopter was listed on the certificate
of insurance. FACC para. 95.
·        
Orbic
intended to induce reliance by providing the certificate of insurance, despite
knowing the policy was not valid to cover the flyover at the wedding. FACC
para. 98
 
Semler’s allegations, if treated as
true, allege that Orbic knowingly and willfully engaged in fraud. 
 
Orbic argues punitive damages are
not available in breach of contract cases. “In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” Cal. Civ. Code
§3294(a). 
 
While punitive damages are not
recoverable in contract claims, they are sufficiently alleged and may be
available under tort theories, including fraud. DENIED.
 
Attorney’s Fees
“Upon motion, a court after
reviewing the evidence in the principal case may award attorney’s fees to a
person who prevails on a claim for implied indemnity if the court finds (a)
that the indemnitee through the tort of the indemnitor has been required to act
in the protection of the indemnitee’s interest by bringing an action against or
defending an action by a third person and (b) if that indemnitor was properly
notified of the demand to bring the action or provide the defense and did not
avail itself of the opportunity to do so, and (c) that the trier of fact
determined that the indemnitee was without fault in the principal case which is
the basis for the action in indemnity or that the indemnitee had a final
judgment entered in his or her favor granting a summary judgment, a nonsuit, or
a directed verdict.” Code Civ. Proc. §1021.6. 
 
Semler seeks attorney’s fees in the
first, sixth, thirteenth, and twenty-second causes of action. Attorney’s fees
are appropriate in the indemnification claim if Semler was required to defend an
action because of Orbic’s tortious conduct. Semler demanded that Orbic defend
the action or indemnify Semler, and Orbic chose not to do so. To obtain a fee
award, the trier of fact would need to determine that Semler was not at fault
in the underlying case. 
 
Semler has shown it served a demand
for defense and indemnity, which Orbic denied. Therefore, if a trier of fact
determines Semler was without fault in the underlying case, Semler may be
awarded attorney’s fees. DENIED. 
 
Moving party to answer with 20
days.