 Case Number:  23SMCV02642    Hearing Date:   September 23, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Nedjathaiem v. HOA, Case No. 23SMCV02642
Hearing Date September 23, 2024
Defendants’ Motion to Strike
Punitive Damages
 
Plaintiff condominium owner Nedjathaiem
sues defendant organizations/managers HOA Premier Management, Durant Towers Owner’s
Association and HOA board members Hyles and Field alleging fraud, negligent and
intentional misrepresentation, breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty, violation
of Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code §§17200 et. seq., fraudulent concealment, lost
profits, negligent interference, violation of Civ. Code §4775, property damage,
loss of real property, negligence and negligent infliction of emotional
distress arising from defendants’ refusal to repair or reimburse for water
damages to plaintiff’s unit. Defendants move to strike punitive damage
allegations.
 
Plaintiff alleges a week after he listed
his unit for sale, defendant managers informed him of a water leak in his
master bathroom. Defendant managers retained contractors to fix the unit. Plaintiff
alleges he asked defendant managers for a plan to repair the unit, which they failed
to provide and allegedly rejected requests for reimbursement. Plaintiff alleges
that due to defendants’ failures to repair or communicate, he sold the property
as-is, less than the original list price. 
 
Punitive damages are allowable only
when plaintiff proves oppression, fraud or malice. Cal. Civ. Code §3294(a).
Facts giving rise to a claim for punitive damages must be pleaded specifically
– vague or conclusory allegations are insufficient. G.D. Searle &
Company v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29. Punitive damages
must be pleaded specifically, and conclusory requests for punitive damages
without factual support are subject to a motion to strike. E.g., Cyrus
v. Haveson (1976) 65 Cal.App.3d 306, 316-317; Grieves v. Superior Court
(1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 164. On a motion to strike, the allegations in a
pleading must be treated as true. E.g., Clauson v. Sup. Ct.
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.
 
Defendants argue plaintiff fails to
state facts sufficient to support a claim for punitive damages under Code Civ.
Proc. §3294. The complaint alleges:
 
·        
HOA
and management hired third party remediation, demolition, asbestos testing, and
construction workers to remediate, demolish, dry, and restore the subject property’s
master bathroom. To date, this work has not yet been completed. FAC at ¶16.
·        
HOA
and management failed to provide a plan of action or timeline for the plan of
action to plaintiff, despite plaintiff’s numerous attempts to reach out to the
HOA and management. FAC at ¶17.
·        
Water
backed up again in the shower. The HOA and management inspected the property
and reported the water back up was due to common area drain pipe stoppage. FAC
at ¶18.
·        
Plaintiff
found another leak on the ceiling of the guest bathroom and notified the HOA
and management and requested an inspection. FAC at ¶23.
·        
The
HOA’s conduct has been evasive, fraudulent, and intentional and/or negligent.
FAC at ¶32.
·        
Board
members Field and Hyles, in their individual capacity and on behalf of the HOA
and management, caused unnecessary delays to repair the subject property, which
prevented plaintiff from selling subject property and ultimately caused plaintiff
harm. FAC at ¶33.
·        
Hyles,
in violation of CC&R’s, threatened to prevent plaintiff from selling the subject
property. On information and belief, Hyles made this threat without the HOA board’s
consent. FAC at ¶34.
·        
At
an HOA meeting in 2022 set to discuss plaintiff’s grievances, Hyles and Field
on behalf of the HOA refused to allow the rest of the HOA board to respond to plaintiff’s
claims. Hyles’ and Field’s actions were so oppressive and one-sided that another
Board member told Hyles the way in which he was conducting the meeting was
improper. FAC at ¶35.
 
Defendants argue damages are not
recoverable in an unfair competition law action. Clark v. Superior Court
(2010) 50 Cal.4th 605. Defendants are incorrect; as plaintiff notes, the 1976
amendment to former Civil Code §3369 expressly provides “the remedies or
penalties provided by [§17200] are cumulative… to the remedies or penalties
available under all other laws of this state.” Bus. & Prof. Code §17205. “In
an action for the breach of an obligation arising not from a contract, where it
is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty
of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual
damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing
the defendant.” Civ. Code §3294(a). Plaintiff seeks punitive damages for his
first, third, fifth, sixth and seventh causes of action, none of which arise
from breach of contract. Therefore, all plaintiff must do is sufficiently
allege oppression, fraud or malice. 
 
Plaintiff meets this burden. Plaintiff
pled specific facts that defendants knowingly engaged in oppression, defined as
subjecting a person to “cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of his
rights.” Richardson v. Employers Liab. Assurance Corp. (1972) 25 Cal.
App. 3d 232, 246. Such malice may be inferred from the facts surrounding the
case. Id. Plaintiff alleges repeated delays in repair and sale of the
property caused by defendants. Plaintiff further alleges defendants knew of,
and failed to respond to, numerous leaks caused by conditions under the control
of defendants. FAC, para. 15. Plaintiff also alleges defendant Hyles acted in contradiction
to the HOA’s policies by limiting plaintiff’s ability to address his concerns, such
that other board members spoke out against him. FAC, para. 35. 
 
Accepting all of plaintiff's
allegations as true, as the court must on the motion to strike, plaintiff alleges
a conscious disregard of his rights sufficient to state a claim for punitive
damages. Perkins v. Superior Court (1981) 117 Cal.App.3d 1, 6-7. The
motion to strike is DENIED.