  Case Number:  22STCV00544    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2023    Dept:  1 In reviewing your motion  for preliminary approval of class action settlement, the Court orders further  briefing on the items checked below.  The additional briefing  shall be due by September 18, 2023 and the hearing date of September 19, 2023  remains on calendar. The deficiencies identified should be easily rectified and  counsel should make every effort to do so in order to obtain Preliminary  Approval on the scheduled hearing date.  This checklist  provides direction on what information and argument the court requires to grant  a motion for preliminary approval of a class action settlement.  All parties are urged to carefully review the  checklist and fully comply with each item that applies to the case in order  that the motion may be promptly ruled upon.  The content of the motion should follow the  same order as this checklist, as that is how the judge and research attorney  review the motion.   You should also consider using the form wage and hour  settlement agreements now available on the court’s website at https://www.lacourt.org/forms/all – “Civil Forms” section.   With input and unanimous consensus from an Ad Hoc Wage and Hour  Committee (chaired by Judge Hogue and Judge Cunningham and comprised of 8  plaintiff’s attorneys and 8 defense attorneys), the court has posted: (1) a form class action settlement  agreement, (2) a form class action/PAGA settlement  agreement, (3) and a form PAGA settlement agreement.  Using these  forms should cut down on attorney negotiation time and reduce the lag time  between a successful mediation and execution of a long form agreement.  Filing a motion that is based on a form  agreement and includes a redlined copy identifying modifications will also  expedite the court’s review process and help reduce the current backlog on  hearings.  These forms are encouraged but  entirely optional.      I.                    MOVING PAPERS (Motion and Declarations)    All facts  submitted for the court to consider must be provided in the form of a  declaration or other admissible evidence. The court will not consider facts  stated only in the motion.                A.  Introductory Information                []  Summary  of the litigation, including identity of the parties, brief procedural history,     claims asserted, and general factual  basis for the claims.                          B.  Dunk/Kullar Analysis    [] Summary  of the case, including the legal and factual basis for each claim. (Kullar  v. Foot Locker Retail, Inc. (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 116, 133 (Kullar);  Munoz v. BCI Coca-Cola Bottling Co. of Los Angeles (2010) 186  Cal.App.4th 399, 409.)   [] Summary  of the investigation and discovery conducted, including the specific  documents reviewed prior to agreeing to settle  the case. (Dunk v. Ford Motor Co. (1996)       48 Cal.App.4th 1794, 1802, as modified Sept. 30, 1996 (Dunk).)  If counsel’s analysis     was informed by  a data sample, show that the sample is statistically reliable.    [] Summary of settlement  negotiations, including when the settlement was reached, and  whether the  parties were assisted by a mediator. (Dunk, supra, 48 Cal.App.4th at p.  1802.)    [] A  summary of the risks, expenses, complexity, and duration of further litigation  if the  settlement is not  approved.     [] A  summary of the risks of achieving and maintaining class action status.    [] Specific information sufficient for the court to make an independent  determination that the consideration being received for the release of class  members’ claims is reasonable in light of the strengths and weaknesses of the  claims and the risks of the particular litigation. (Kullar, supra, 168 Cal.App.4th  at 129.) This discussion should specify the maximum realistic recovery of each  claim asserted in the operative complaint, defenses asserted by Defendant, and  any other relevant factors justifying the amount offered in settlement. If the  settlement is predicated on a payment plan or is predicated on defendant’s  financial situation, admissible evidence of Defendant’s financial situation  should be provided, including appropriate financial documents such as a balance  sheet, statement of cash flows, profit and loss statement, and the like.    [] If  approval of the settlement of class claims is requested together with approval  of non-class claims (such as claims under the Labor Code’s Private Attorney  General Act (PAGA)) discuss why the amount allocated to the non-class claims is  fair to those affected. See Moniz v. Adecco USA, Inc. (2021) 72  Cal.App.5th 56, 77 (Moniz).   C.  Class  Certification    [] Numerosity:  Total number of members in the settlement class and number of members in each  sub-class (if applicable).    [] Ascertainability:  The manner by which members of the class will be identified and when. (Noel  v. Thrifty Payless (2019) 7 Cal.5th 955.)    [] Community  of Interest: Discuss specific facts showing that the proposed class  representatives have claims or defenses typical of the class and can adequately  represent the class. (Linder v. Thrifty Oil Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 429,  435.)   [] Adequacy:    Class Counsel: A summary of Class Counsels’ experience  and a listing of all prior cases in which each named Class Counsel has been  approved by a court to act as lead or co-counsel. (See Dunk, supra, 48  Cal.App.4th at p. 1802.)    Class Representative(s): Provide evidence that each  proposed class representative has agreed to act as same and understands his or  her responsibilities.  (See Soderstedt  v. CBIZ Southern California, LLC (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 133, 155-156; Jones  v. Farmers Ins. Exchange (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 986, 998-999).   D.  Claim  Requirement (if applicable)    [] If  class members are required to submit a claim to receive compensation, explain  why a claim form is necessary and either 1) provide an estimate of the anticipated  claims rate or 2) provide an explanation why a claims rate cannot be provided.    [] Provide  a detailed explanation why a “claims made” settlement is appropriate in this  case.    [] Indicate  what actions class counsel will take to encourage claim submission.    [] Explain  why the claims process is not so burdensome that relief would be inaccessible  to class members (if applicable).    E. Miscellaneous    [] If  appropriate, explain why the settlement includes terms that are outside the  scope of the operative complaint. (Trotsky v. Los Angeles Fed. Savings &  Loan Assn. (1975) 48 Cal.App.3d 134, 148.) If approval of settlement of a  PAGA claim is requested provide a copy of Plaintiff’s notice letter to the  LWDA.   [] If  notice will be given in English only, explain why this is sufficient.    []A  statement of any affirmative obligations to be undertaken by the class member  or class counsel and the reason for such obligations.    [] Provide  information regarding any fee splitting agreement and whether the client has  given written approval. (Mark v. Spencer (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 219;  Rules Prof. Conduct, rule 1.5.1; Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.769.)    [] Any  agreement that has injunctive relief against a class representative generally is  not appropriate in a class action case. Provide the authority and factual  reasons why this case is an exception. See Moniz, supra, 72 Cal.App.5th  at 84. (“[T]he preclusive effect of a prior judgment is determined by the court  in which it is asserted, not the court that rendered it.” (Fireside Bank  Cases (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 1120, 1131 [115 Cal. Rptr. 3d 80].) )   [] Explanation  as to why any class representative enhancement is reasonable, including what  the class representative did beyond the expected services of any class  representative. (Munoz v. BCI Coca-Cola Bottling Co. of Los Angeles (2010)  186 Cal.App.4th 399, 412; Radcliffe v. Experian Information Solutions Inc.  (9th Cir. 2013) 715 F.3d 1157, 1165.) In PAGA settlements explanation should be  provided as to why an incentive award is appropriate.    SETTLEMENT  AGREEMENT    The settlement  agreement should address the following:    A.  The  Basics    X Class  definition.  If a PAGA representative action is settled with a proposed Class Settlement  consider whether there should be separate definitions for Class Members and  Aggrieved Employees. ·          The Class definition at Settlement Agreement ¶1.5 appears  to be incomplete (“… classified as a non-exempt who worked for Defendant  …”).  Please resolve.  ·          The Aggrieved Employee definition at ¶1.4 contains  bracketed language from the Court’s model form (“… means [e.g., a person  employed by …”) that should have been reviewed and removed prior to  finalization.     X Class  and Release Period: If  the class and release periods extend beyond the preliminary approval explain  why this is appropriate.  ·          The beginning date of the PAGA Period is inconsistent  between Settlement Agreement ¶1.31 (“December 30, 2020”) and the Notice form at  page 1 (“January 6, 2018”).      B.  Release  of Claims    [] Scope:  The scope of any release given by class members must be defined with precision  and clarity. Any released claims not presented directly in the operative  complaint should be based on the facts alleged in the operative complaint. (See  Amaro v. Anaheim Arena Mgmt. (2021) 69 Cal. App. 5th 521, 537 and FN. 5;  Uribe v. Crown Building Maintenance Co. 70 Cal. App. 5th 986, 1005.)   X Class cases which include a PAGA claim should have a  separate release for the PAGA claim tied to the facts alleged in the notice  given to the LWDA. Id. ·          See Settlement  Agreement ¶1.40.  The reference to  “Paragraph 5.2” appears to be in error.  ·          See Settlement  Agreement ¶7.5.4.   The reference to “Paragraph 6.4” appears to be  in error.   [] If PAGA and Class  Settlement: The Release and Notice should provide an explanation that released  claims include all PAGA claims that could have been premised on the facts  alleged in the Plaintiff’s LWDA Letter and aggrieved employees will release  PAGA claims even if class members request exclusion from the class. See Robinson  v. Southern Counties Oil Co. (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 476.   [] A Civil  Code section 1542 waiver is generally not appropriate in a class action case as  to the putative class members (if applicable). Provide the authority and  factual reasons why this case is an exception. (Israel-Curley v. California  Fair Plan (2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 123, 129; Salehi v. Surfside III  Condominium Owners’ Assn. (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 1146, 1159–1161.)    [] Release  Effective Date: Indicate the point in time at which the release will be deemed  effective as to the absent class members. If the release will be effective  before settlement funds are paid, explain why this is in the best interest of  the class.    [] Class  Data: If there are confidentiality provisions, explain why they are in the best  interest of the Class and whether they will impede Class Counsel’s ability to  discharge fiduciary duties.    C. Monetary Terms of Settlement    X Settlement Amount:  Indicate the amount of the gross settlement, how and when the settlement will be paid, and information regarding  payment plan, if any. If a class claim is being settled with a PAGA claim the  amounts allocated should be separated and paid only to the aggrieved employees. ·          There is a typo in regard to the Gross Settlement  Amount at ¶3.1 (“$610,0000.00”).   ·          The funding date of the settlement is inconsistent  between the agreement at ¶4.3 (“no later than 30 days after the Effective Date”)  and the Notice at page 3 (“not more than 14 days after the Judgment entered by  the Court become [sic] final”).  Please  resolve.    X Deductions from the settlement fund: Indicate the amounts to be deducted from  the gross settlement for attorneys’ fees and costs, plaintiff incentive awards,  administrative costs, PAGA payment and allocation of award to LWDA and the  parties, and any other existing deductions.  ·          Is it necessary for  the Settlement Agreement to provide for administration costs up to $15,000  (¶3.2.3) when the administrator established a flat fee of $7,500?  See Decl. of Hartranft at ¶10 and Exhibit C.    [] If  there are subclasses, explain why the monetary distribution is fair to each  subclass. Ensure there is a class representative who fits the definition of  each subclass.    [] Information about how attorney fees will be calculated. The percentage method,  with or without a lodestar cross-check, may be used in common fund cases. (Laffitte  v. Robert Half Internat., Inc. (2016) 1 Cal.5th 480, 503.) In other cases,  counsel should fully brief how the fees are calculated.    [] If  wages are involved, explain how Defendant’s share of taxes will be paid.    [] Whether, and under what circumstances, amounts may revert to Defendant, and a  justification for such reversion (if applicable). (Cundiff  v. Verizon California, Inc. (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 718, 728–729.)    [] Payment  Formula: Amount and manner of distribution of the compensation to each class  member, including the estimated amount each class member will receive and the  timeline on which payments will be issued.    [] Tax  allocation of settlement payments.    [] Nature  of injunctive relief (if any), and valuation of such relief.                D. Notice Administration    The following  issues regarding notice administration should be addressed in the settlement  agreement. A copy  of the proposed notice must be attached to the settlement agreement as an  exhibit.    [] Indicate  the administrator for the settlement and why the bid for administration is  fair.     [] Provide  the qualifications and experience of the Administrator, including evidence that  the settlement administrator has procedures in place to protect the security of  class data and adequate insurance in the event of a data breach or defalcation  of funds.     [] Indicate how/when the administrator will receive the class list.    [] Indicate whether the list will be updated by the administrator prior to the  initial mailing by use of National Change of Address Registry.     [] Provide  the deadline for the initial issuance of notice to class members.    [] Ensure  the content of the notice complies with California Rules of Court, rule  3.766(d). In wage and hour cases the notice should indicate the specific amount  the class member will receive and how that amount was calculated. A separate  breakdown for PAGA payments should be provided. The terms of the  release(s) should be reflected in the Notice.    [] Ensure  the notice accurately reflects the Court’s current social distancing procedures  for attendance at hearings and review of court files. (Counsel should check the  Court website for most current information.)    [] Indicate  how and when payments will be processed.    [] Indicate  how notices returned to the administrator as undeliverable will be handled.    [] Explain  how re-mailed notices, if any, will be handled. Will class members who receive  re-mailed notices be given an extended deadline to respond (i.e., opt-out,  object, and dispute workweeks)?   [] Explain  how notice of any change of the date or location of the will hearing be given.    [] Indicate  whether there will be a settlement website. If so, provide the URL.    [] If  publication notice will be given indicate the timing, locations, and manner by  which publication notice will be disseminated.    [] Explain  how notice of final judgment will be given to the class. (Cal. Rules of Court,  rule 3.771(b)) (e.g. Posted on administrator’s website.)    E. Responses to Notice    [] Description of the procedures for submitting written objections, requests for  exclusion, claim forms (if applicable) and disputes to estimated payments.    [] Indicate the deadline to submit objections, requests for exclusion, claim forms  (if applicable), and/or disputes to workweeks. Confirm the deadline is reasonable  and that class members who receive re-mailed notices will be given an extension.     [] The  objection procedure should be the same as the opt-out procedure, with the only  requirement being that objections be mailed to the settlement administrator and  not filed with the court.   [] Do not  include language indicating that class members may only be heard at final  approval if they have complied with all objection procedures or that they must  use specific language to request exclusion, or, if a specific procedure is  sought, explain why it is necessary.  In  general, the court will hear from any class member who attends the final  approval hearing and asks to speak regarding his or her objection.    F. Cy Pres Distribution    [] Indicate  the length of time from issuance for which settlement checks will remain valid.     [] Identify  the fund to which uncashed checks will be directed and detail the steps that  will be taken to ensure compliance with Code of Civil Procedure section 384.  The Court’s Omnibus Trailer Bill of 2018 replaced the language of the prior  statutory distribution scheme under Code of Civil Procedure, section 384 with a  requirement that the Court re-open judgments following the final distribution  of funds to include the cy pres in the judgment and to include the unclaimed  amount, plus an unspecified amount of interest. Such information should be  actively contemplated/provided for within the current terms of the settlement.   [] Explain  why the cy pres distribution fills the purposes of the lawsuit or is otherwise  appropriate. (State of California v. Levi Strauss & Co. (1986) 41  Cal.3d 460, 472; In re Microsoft I-V Cases (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 706,  722; Nachshin v. AOL, Inc. (9th Cir. 2011) 663 F.3d 1034, 1038–1041; Dennis  v. Kellogg Co. (9th Cir. 2012) 697 F.3d 858, 865; Code Civ. Proc., § 384.)    [] Provide  declarations by all parties and counsel disclosing any interest or involvement  (or lack thereof) in the governance or work of the cy pres recipient.               G. MISCELLANEOUS   X  Assure the Settlement Agreement and Notice  are consistent and that the Settlement Agreement (including revised  versions) has been signed by all parties and counsel.  Carefully proofread both.    [] The  Settlement Agreement and paperwork derivative thereof should not suggest that  the end result of court approval will be dismissal of the Action with prejudice  or entry of a Final Judgment and Order dismissing with prejudice all claims. See  California Rules of Court, rule 3.769(h).   III. EXHIBITS TO  THE MOTION    X Provide proof of submission of the proposed settlement agreement to the LWDA.  (Lab. Code, § 2699, subd. (l)(2).)  ·          This also applies to any further revised versions of  the settlement agreement.   [] Include  a proposed Judgment, which should not include a dismissal or any findings not  contained in the Final Approval Order. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.769(h).)    [] All  exhibits should be bookmarked, as set forth in the Presiding Judge’s First  Amended General Order of May 3, 2019 re: Electronic Filing, available on the  Court website.   If the Settlement Agreement is modified pursuant to this  checklist, please submit both a red-lined copy showing changes made as well as  a final version signed by all parties and counsel. Do not submit an addendum in  lieu of a full amended settlement agreement including all operative settlement  terms.   Modify notice to match any alterations to the Settlement  Agreement.     Date: September 14, 2023                                                       Judge Stuart M. Rice JUDICIAL  OFFICER