 Case Number:  23STCV10975    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  12, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV10975




MOTIONS:  


(1)  
  Motion to Compel Deposition of Los Angeles County
  Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s Person Most Qualified
(2)  
  Motion to Compel Deposition of Tierra Charles and
  Document Production




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Maria Vela-Zuniga




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority



 
 
MOTION
 
            Plaintiff
Maria Vela-Zuniga’s (“Plaintiff”) moves to compel the deposition of Defendant
Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s (“Defendant”) person
most qualified and the deposition of Tierra Charles. Plaintiff also seeks
monetary sanctions. Defendant opposes, and also seeks monetary sanctions.
Plaintiff replies. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            The complaint was filed May 15, 2023
and alleges injuries sustained as a passenger in Defendant’s vehicle. Trial was
initially set for November 12, 2024. 
 
            On October 17, 2024, the Court
granted in part Plaintiff’s ex parte application and continued trial to
December 4, 2024. All discovery and pre-trial motion cut-off dates remained
associated with the prior trial date unless stipulated by the parties or
pursuant to court order subject to a proper motion to reopen discovery. (Min.
Order, 10/17/24.) 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a
person designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230,
without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear
for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any
document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice
may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and
the production for inspection of any document . . . described in the deposition
notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
 
“A motion under subdivision (a) [above] shall comply with
both of the following: 
 
1. The motion
shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. 
2. The motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040,
or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance.” 
 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b).) 
 
If a motion is granted, the court shall impose a monetary
sanction in favor of that party unless the court finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 (g).)
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Victor Vera, Plaintiff’s counsel, does not describe
any meet and confer effort to schedule the depositions at issue after
Defendant’s objection was served. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Plaintiff asserts that on September 27, 2024, she served
deposition notices for Defendant’s person most qualified (“PMQ”) and Tierra
Charles, set for October 11, 2024. (Vera Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. A.) On October 4,
2024, Defendant served an objection based on unavailability, but then failed to
provide alternative dates afterward. (Id. ¶ 6-7.) In opposition,
Defendant asserts the objection was valid and has agreed to produce the deponents
on a mutually agreeable date. 
 
Despite the
argument above, the discovery motion cut-off in this case is closed. Any party
shall be entitled as a matter of right to complete discovery proceedings on or
before the 30th day, and to have motions concerning
discovery heard before the 15th day, before the date initially set for
the trial of the action. (Code Civ. Proc.§ 2024.020 (a).)¿A trial court abuses
its discretion in hearing a discovery motion past the deadlines in Code of
Civil Procedure section 2024.020 when it does not require the party to file a
motion for leave to reopen discovery under section 2024.050. (Pelton-Shepherd
Industries, Inc. v. Delta Packaging Products, Inc.¿(2008) 165 Cal.App.4th
1568, 1588.)¿¿¿ 
¿ 
Here, the discovery cut-offs are associated with the
previous trial date of November 12, 2024. (Min. Order, 10/17/24.) Therefore, the last day to hear a discovery motion was
October 28, 2024. Since the motions to compel depositions are being heard on
November 12, 2024, they are untimely. Plaintiff has not discussed section
2024.050 in the motions. Therefore, the motions to compel are denied.
 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
motions to compel the deposition of Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority’s Person Most Qualified and Tierra Charles are DENIED.
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 