  Case Number:  21STCV08032    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2023    Dept:  76 Pursuant to California Rule of Court
3.1308(a)(1), the Court does not desire oral argument on the motion addressed
herein.  Counsel must contact the staff
in Department 76 to inform the Court whether they wish to submit on the
tentative, or to argue the matter.  As
required by Rule 3.1308(a), any party seeking oral argument must notify ALL
OTHER PARTIES and the staff of Department 76 of their intent to appear and
argue. 
Notice to Department 76 may be sent by email to
smcdept76@lacourt.org or telephonically at 213-830-0776. 
Per Rule of Court 3.1308, if notice of intention
to appear is not given, the Court may adopt the tentative ruling as the final
ruling.Plaintiffs allege wage and hour
violations and that they were paid less than their male counterparts and
retaliated against for complaining about this inequality.
Plaintiff Brooke Stone brings a
motion to quash subpoena for records from third party Soapbox Films, LLC.
Plaintiff Jackie Stone moves to quash subpoena for records from third party
Lucasfilm Ltd., LLC. 
TENTATIVE RULING
            Plaintiff
Brooke Stone’s motion to quash the subpoena for her employment records from
third party Soapbox Films, LLC, is GRANTED in
its entirety. No sanctions were requested.
Plaintiff Jackie Stone’s
motion to quash the subpoena for her employment records from third party
Lucasfilm, Ltd., LLC is GRANTED in its entirety. No sanctions were requested.
ANALYSIS
Plaintiff Brooke Stone’s Motion To Quash Deposition
Subpoena
Plaintiff Brooke Stone brings a
motion to quash subpoena for Plaintiff’s employment records from third party
Soapbox Films, LLC, her current employer, or to narrow the scope of the
subpoena.
The subpoenaed documents are
described as:
 
“[a]ll DOCUMENTS in the possession,
custody or control of 
SOAPBOX FILMS, LLC regarding the
employment of 
PLAINTIFF, including her personnel
file, employment file, and any 
other employment-related documents,
including but not limited to, 
all resumes, employment
applications, employment contracts, 
employment agreements, offer
letters, time records, performance 
evaluations, personnel action
reports, disciplinary records, 
termination records” in addition to
“[a]ll DOCUMENTS in the 
possession, custody or control of
SOAPBOX FILMS, LLC 
reflecting or constituting
complaints made regarding PLAINTIFF.”
     (Subpoena
Categories Nos. 1 and 2)
CCP § 1987.1(a)
provides:

(a) If a
subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books,
documents, electronically stored information, or other things before a court,
or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the
court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b),
or upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity
to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other
order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or
oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy
of the person.

     (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 1987.1(a).)
            There is no
meet and confer requirement set forth in CCP § 1987.1.
However, case law has imposed the
“good cause” requirement for subpoena document requests propounded upon
non-parties, that is, the propounding party must articulate specific facts
relating to each category of materials sought to justify production. (Calcor Space Facility v. Superior Court
(1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 219, 223-25.)
In the course of the litigation, Thiem
served a subpoena under section 2020 on Calcor's custodian of records demanding
Calcor, a nonparty and Thiem's
competitor, to, in effect, produce all materials in its possession relating to
gun mounts, going back nearly 10 years. The subpoena fails to identify any
specific document but merely describes broad categories of documents and other
materials. 


(Calcor Space Facility v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216,
219 [bold emphasis added].)
Although the scope of civil discovery
is broad, it is not limitless. . . . 
[Former] Section 2031, subdivision (l), which applies to document
production requests served on a party, requires a  [*224]  party
seeking to compel such production to "set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
discovery sought by the inspection demand . . . ." (Italics in original.)
Section 2020, the statute at issue, contains no such specific requirement. However,
since both sections are part of a single
statutory scheme, and since it is unlikely the Legislature intended to place
greater burdens on a nonparty than on a party to the litigation, we read a
similar requirement into the latter section. 


(Calcor Space Facility v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216,
223-24 [bold emphasis added].)
 
Even were we to ignore that the statements
purporting to justify an order compelling Calcor to produce its documents and
other materials are unverified, they still fail. There is an absence of specific facts relating to each category of
materials sought to be produced; the justifications offered for the
production are mere generalities. The very vice of the subpoena's
promiscuity is well illustrated by Thiem's inability
to provide focused, fact-specific justifications for its demands. The noted
generality of the subpoena's definitions, instructions and categories which
merely add up to a demand Calcor produce everything in its possession having anything
to do with gun mounts, precludes Thiem from demonstrating any particular item
or category in fact constitutes or contains matter which "is itself
admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence." (§ 2017, subd. (a).) The purported
justification for imposing this great burden on Calcor necessarily suffers from
the same generality as the subpoena itself. 

Although appellate courts have frequently stated "fishing
expeditions" are permissible in discovery, there is a limit. As noted in
Gonzalez v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal. App. 4th 1539 [39 Cal. Rptr. 2d 896],
"These rules are applied liberally in favor of discovery ( Colonial Life
& Accident Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1982) 31 Cal. 3d 785, 790), and
(contrary to popular belief), fishing expeditions are permissible in some
cases." (Id. at p. 1546.) However, early in the development of our discovery
law our Supreme Court recognized the limits on such "fishing
expeditions." In  [*225] Greyhound Corp. v. Superior Court
(1961) 56 Cal. 2d 355 [15 Cal. Rptr. 90, 364 P.2d 266], the seminal case in
California civil discovery, the court gave examples of improper
"fishing" WHICH CLEARLY APPLY HERE: "The method of 'fishing' may be, in a particular case, entirely improper
(i.e., insufficient identification of the requested information to acquaint the
other party with the nature of information desired, attempt to place the burden
and cost of supplying information equally available to both solely upon the adversary,
placing more burden upon the adversary than the value of the information
warrants, etc.). Such improper methods of 'fishing' may be (and should be)
controlled by the trial court under the powers granted to it by the
statute." ( Id. at pp. 384-385.) The concerns for avoiding undue burdens
on the "adversary" in the litigation expressed in Greyhound apply
with even more weight to a nonparty. 


(Calcor Space Facility v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216,
224-25 [bold emphasis and underlining added].)
            In this regard,
the court will examine whether Plaintiff has demonstrated good cause for the categories
of documents requested.
Defendant argues that Plaintiff was not performing
substantially similar work to her male counterparts, and that she was not as
skilled, qualified or experienced as they were. Defendatn argues that is seeks
to determine what information Plaintiff gave to Soapbox regarding the duties
she performed at DNEG, as well as her skills, responsibilities, qualifications
and experience. Defendant seeks to discover whether Plaintiff has the skills
and qualifications to be an Executive Producer as she contends, her duties at
Soapbox and whether she has performed them competently.
Defendant argues that such information is relevant to
the inquiry under Labor Code, § 1197.5(a)(1)(A) – (D) which prohibits unequal
wages to the opposite sex for substantially similar work when viewed as a composite
of skill, effort and responsibility.  
The constitutional right of privacy protects
documents and communications in one’s employment files.  (Board
of Trustees v. Superior Court of Santa Clara County (1981) 119 Cal.App.3d
516, 528, overruled in part on other grounds by Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531,
557.)  Moreover, although there may be an
implicit partial waiver of the right of privacy in bringing suit, “the scope of
such waiver must be narrowly, rather than expansively construed, so that
plaintiffs will not be unduly deterred from instituting lawsuits by fear of
exposure of private activities. (Citations omitted].) An implicit waiver of a
party's constitutional rights encompasses only discovery directly relevant to the plaintiff's claim and essential to the
fair resolution of the lawsuit.” (Davis
v. Superior Court (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1008, 1014 [italics in original,
bold emphasis added].)
            The California Supreme Court has
held that a compelling interest or compelling need is not always required in order to discover private information—the
Court must consider the factors articulated in Hill v. National Collegiate
Athletic Assn. (1994)  7 Cal.4th
1 to determine the seriousness of the privacy invasion and the strength of the countervailing
interest required to overcome that invasion. (Williams v. Superior Court
(2017) 3 Cal.5th 531.)
In ruling upon a privacy objection in the contact of
discovery, the party asserting a privacy right must establish a legally
protected privacy interest. (Williams,
supra, 3 Cal.5th at 552.) The party asserting a privacy right must also
establish an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given
circumstances. (Id.) Further, the
party asserting a privacy right must establish a threatened intrusion that is
serious. (Id.)  The Court need not proceed to the fourth step
of balancing competing interests if all three of the above are not satisfied. (Id. at 555.) If the Court reaches the
fourth step, the Court must balance these competing considerations: The party
seeking information may raise whatever legitimate and important countervailing
interests disclosure serves.  (Id. at 552.) The party seeking
protection may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or
protective measures that would diminish the loss of privacy.  (Id.)
Courts may not require the party seeking discovery to demonstrate a “compelling
state interest” or “compelling need[1]” simply because
discovery of any facially private information is sought.  (Id.
at 556-57.)
As noted above, Plaintiff has a legal protected privacy
interest in her employment records, and an objectively reasonable expectation
of privacy as to subsequent employment. The threatened intrusion is serious, as
it seeks the entirety of Plaintiff’s employment file from a third party
employer. 
            The Court finds that Defendant has
not articulated sufficient good cause for production of the requested documents,
relative to a legitimate and important countervailing interest disclosure serves.
In short, what Plaintiff represented on her resume to a prospective employer,
her duties at her current employer and her performance in connection therewith,
have little to no probative value as to her past situation with Defendant
employer. What happened with Plaintiff’s future employment does not change the past
circumstances which form the basis of Plaintiff’s Complaint.  
            As such, Plaintiff Brooke Stone’s motion
to quash the subpoena for her employment records from third party Soapbox
Films, LLC, is GRANTED in its entirety.
No sanctions were requested.
Plaintiff Jackie
Stone’s Motion To Quash Deposition Subpoena
Plaintiff
Jackie Stone brings a motion to quash subpoena for Plaintiff’s employment records
from third party Lucasfilm, Ltd., LLC, her current employer, or to narrow the
scope of the subpoena.
The
subpoenaed documents at issue are:
“[a]ll
DOCUMENTS in the possession, custody or control of 
LUCASFILM,
LTD., LLC regarding the employment of 
PLAINTIFF,
including her personnel file, employment file, and any 
other
employment-related documents, including but not limited to, 
all
resumes, employment applications, employment contracts, 
employment
agreements, offer letters, time records, performance 
evaluations,
personnel action reports, disciplinary records, 
termination
records” in addition to “[a]ll DOCUMENTS in the 
possession,
custody or control of LUCASFILM, LTD., LLC 
reflecting
or constituting complaints made regarding PLAINTIFF.”
            For
the reasons discussed above re: Brook Stone’s motion to quash subpoena,
Plaintiff Jackie Stone’s motion to quash the subpoena for her employment
records from third party Lucasfilm, Ltd., LLC is GRANTED in its entirety.
No sanctions were requested.


