 Case Number:  23STLC01807    Hearing Date:   April 8, 2024    Dept:  26 Superior Court of
California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26



 
BARRY ROSEN,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v. 
 
CLARK
  DRIVE HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATE,
                        Defendant.


 
  Case No.: 
  23STLC01807
 
  Hearing Date:  April 8, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
Plaintiff’s motion FOR PRODUCTION OR INSPECTION OF DOCUMENTS AND
  TO COMPEL A MANDATORY SPECIAL MEETING OF THE CLARK DRIVE HOMEOWNERS’
  ASSOCIATION



 
Procedural
Background
            On March
17, 2023, Plaintiff Barry Rosen (“Plaintiff”) filed the instant action to
involuntarily dissolve Defendant Clark Drive Homeowners Association
(“Defendant” or “HOA”).  On May 4, 2023,
default was entered against Defendant. 
On February 1, 2024, the Court vacated the default entered against
Defendant. 
            On
March 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion for production or inspection
of documents and motion to compel mandatory special meeting.  On March 26, 2024, Defendant filed an
opposition.  On the same day, Plaintiff
filed a reply.  On March 29, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a supplemental reply. 
Discussion
            Plaintiff
seeks an order to enforce his alleged right to inspect certain HOA documents
and for an order for a mandatory special meeting of all the members and
shareholders of the HOA.  Plaintiff seeks
an award of reasonable costs and expenses, including reasonable attorney’s
fees, and assessment of a civil penalty of up to five hundred dollars ($500)
and any other relief that the Court may deem appropriate.  
The Court notes that Plaintiff has filed a
supplemental reply brief in addition to a reply.  Since a party may not have multiple filings
to a motion, the Court will consider only Plaintiff’s supplemental reply
brief.  
Plaintiff requests that the Court not consider
Defendant’s opposition because it was untimely filed.  The Court agrees that it is untimely filed
but given no showing of prejudice and Plaintiff’s reply on the merits, the
Court will consider the opposition. 
1.         Order
for Production or Inspection of Documents and to Compel
Plaintiff asserts that the Court has the statutory power to order
enforcement of records inspection under Civil Code section 5235 and compel a
mandatory meeting under Corporations Code sections 7510 and 7511.  Plaintiff states that his previous attempts
to inspect HOA records were unsuccessful.  (See Rosen Decl.)  Plaintiff seeks production of the following
documents:
1.    
Unredacted
financials for the last two (2) years, including but not limited to itemization
of expenses and the required quarterly accounting of litigation expenses
pursuant to California Civil Code § 5520. 
2.    
Documents
related to the retention of legal counsel and HOA Board meetings related thereto,
including but not limited to the general notices and agendas required to given
to all owners/shareholders prior to any board meeting (or special session), the
general minutes of the meeting distributed/made available to all
owners/shareholders/members within 30 days after the meeting and copies of any
contracts or retainer agreements with legal counsel.
Civil Code section 5235 states as follows: Enforcement of Inspection
Rights provides as follows: 
(a) A member may bring an action to enforce that member’s right to
inspect and copy the association records. If a court finds that the association
unreasonably withheld access to the association records, the court shall award
the member reasonable costs and expenses, including reasonable attorney’s fees,
and may assess a civil penalty of up to five hundred dollars ($500) for the
denial of each separate written request.
 
(b) A cause of action under this section may be brought in small claims
court if the amount of the demand does not exceed the jurisdiction of that
court.
 
(c) A prevailing association may recover any costs if the court finds the
action to be frivolous, unreasonable, or without foundation.
            Plaintiff
explains that these records relate directly to the lawsuit as it would
determine whether there are grounds for involuntary dissolution of the
Corporation.
In opposition,
Defendant discusses only that Plaintiff lacks authority to order a mandatory
special meeting and that the request to order a meeting with regard to the
Association’s Board of Directors is moot. 

In reply,
Plaintiff reasserts that the Court should order enforcement of records
inspection rights because the requested documents are related to the issue of
whether SwedelsonGottleib was ever or could have ever been retained.  Plaintiff states that the request for
documents has been met with complete resistance which likely indicates that
SwedelsonGottleib is hiding something.  
“A member’s
right of inspection is limited to purposes reasonably related to the member’s
interests as a member. (§§ 8330, subd. (b)(1) [membership lists], 8333
[corporate financial records].) ‘This limitation is always subject to judicial
review to determine whether a lawful purpose exists.” [Citation.] A corporation
has the burden of proving that the member ‘will allow use of the information
for purposes unrelated to the person’s interest as a member.’ [Citation.] (Parker
v. Tract No. 7260 Assn., Inc. (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 24, 31-32.)  
“Mere
speculation that the member will use the information for an improper purpose is
not sufficient to nullify inspection rights; any suspicion must be based on
adequate facts in order to justify denial of inspection. (Gilmore v. Emsco
Derrick & Equipment Co. (1937) 22 Cal.App.2d 64, 67, 70 P.2d 251
[improper to deny shareholder inspection rights simply because she was employed
by a detective agency, when there was no evidence her inspection demand was
related to her employment].)”  (Parker,
supra, 10 Cal.App.5th at 32.)
First, the
requested documents consisting of financial documents and documents relating to
the retention of legal counsel appear to be association records, and Defendant
does not dispute this.  Second, Plaintiff
provides evidence that he was unreasonably denied these records by his
declaration that on September 15, 2023, he made two requests for inspection of
HOA financial documents to the HOA’s purported management company, and that the
HOA failed to respond to his requests. 
(Rosen Decl. ¶ 4, Exhib. 4-5.)  Third,
Plaintiff provides that these records were not sought for an improper purpose
as he explains that it relates to the issues in this action.  Defendant does not contest this.  Indeed, the Court finds that Defendant fails
to provide any discussion as to whether it unreasonably withheld access to
association records despite Plaintiff’s requests and whether production of
these documents is necessary.  
The Court finds
that Plaintiff has provided sufficient evidence to show that Defendant
unreasonably withheld access to the association records under which Civil Code
section 5235   Plaintiff has a right to
inspect.  Thus, the Court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s request for the production of the requested documents.  However, the Court will not award attorney’s
fees because Plaintiff is a self-represented litigant and has not incurred
attorney’s fees.  “A party who acts on
his or her own behalf does not thereby generate an expense that the party has
become obligated to pay. And although such a party may lose earnings he or she
might have obtained but for devoting time to the litigation, the loss of time
from other employment is a loss, not an expense.”  (Musaelian v. Adams (2009) 45 Cal.4th
512, 517.)  The Court also declines to
impose a civil penalty.  
2.         Mandatory Special Meeting of the Clark
Drive Homeowners Association 
Plaintiff claims
he sent petitions requesting a special meeting of the HOA.  On October 18, 2022, Plaintiff claims he sent
two petitions pursuant to Corporations Code section 7510(e) for a special
meeting in order to recall the HOA Board and to reorganize the HOA.  (Rosen Decl. ¶ 3, Exhib. 1-3.)  Plaintiff asserts that the recall of the
Board of Directors was necessary as there had not been an election or annual
membership meeting for years and the current board is unelected and unlawful.  On October 7, 2023, Plaintiff claims he sent
eight separate petitions pursuant to Corporations Code section 7510(e) for a
special meeting in order to recall the HOA Board, to reorganize the HOA, to put
the HOA into a receivership and other lawful purposes.  (Rosen Decl. ¶ 5, Exhib. 6-8.)  
In opposition,
Defendant argues that the matters raised by Plaintiff do not warrant member
involvement or approval and are within the Board’s purview.  Defendant states the Association’s Declaration
of Covenants, Conditions, and Restrictions (CC&Rs) outlines the powers and
duties of the Association, including the Board’s authority to enter contracts
with third parties, such as management companies, without needing member
approval.  It argues that Plaintiff lacks
the authority to compel a special meeting for issues related to professional
service contracts and the management company. 
Defendant also asserts that Plaintiff’s petitions to recall or remove
the entire Board or individual Board members are moot because an election for a
new Board of Directors was held subsequent to Plaintiff’s petitions.  Finally, Defendant challenges the
justification for a mandatory special meeting concerning the HOA’s Board of
Directors.  It argues that since an
election was already held and board members were elected, Plaintiff’s request
for a special meeting is without basis.
In reply,
Plaintiff asserts that his eight petitions under Corporations Code section 7510
are for completely lawful purposes and that case law allows a shareholder to
request such a meeting and a court to order such a meeting.  Plaintiff relies on Takiguchi v. Venetian
Condominiums Maintenance Corporation (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th 880, where the
appellate court affirmed the trial court’s order for a condominium association
to hold a meeting for the purpose of counting ballots for its annual member
meeting and election.  (90 Cal.App.5th
880.)  The plaintiff, the association
board director, filed a petition against the association seeking summary order
directing association to notice and hold annual meetings for purpose of
counting ballots and tabulating and certifying results for director election.  (Id.)  
Plaintiff also
argues that the Board election was a purposeful dodge to avoid a Board recall
and that Defendant did not statutorily comply with the election
requirements.  For example, Plaintiff
points out that the Board of Directors did not provide a 28-day written notice
for proposed rule changes, especially for modifying elections pursuant to Civil
Code section 4360.  Plaintiff also states
that there was no HOA board meeting to set an election and no HOA Board meeting
took place to select an independent third party as an inspector of elections.  As to these latter points, Plaintiff only
raised them for the first time in his supplemental reply brief.  At the hearing on this Motion, Defendant should
be prepared to address these points or seek an  opportunity to do so in a further brief. 
            The Court finds that more
information is necessary from both parties, especially regarding Plaintiff’s
claims in reply that Defendant failed to comply with statutory requirements
with regard to the board election.  
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff Barry
Rosen’s motion for production or
inspection of documents is GRANTED. 
Unredacted financials for the last two years and documents related to
the retention of legal counsel and HOA Board Meetings are to be produced within
30 days.
No ruling is
made at this time on Plaintiff’s motion to compel mandatory special meeting is. 
Moving Party is to provide notice and file
proof of service of such. 
 
DATED: April 8, 2024                                                           ___________________________
                                                                                          Judge
Yolanda Orozco
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 