 Case Number:  22STCV13647    Hearing Date:   April 8, 2024    Dept:  26 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26 



 
ELIEZER APPEL,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
MARK A. LIKER, M.D., airlux aircraft, inc., and lg aviation inc.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
 Case No.: 22STCV13647
 
 Hearing Date: April 8, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
DEFENDANT LG AVIATION INC.’S DEMURRER TO
  THE COMPLAINT 
 
 



 
Background
            On
April 25, 2022, Plaintiff Eliezer Appel (“Plaintiff”) filed the operative
Complaint against Defendants Mark A. Liker, M.D., Airlux Aircraft, Inc., and LG
Aviation Inc. (“Defendants”) asserting three causes of action: (1) Breach of
Contract, (2) Quantum Meruit, and (3) Express and Implied Indemnity. 
             On January 5, 2024, Defendant LG
Aviation Inc. (“LG Aviation”) filed the instant demurrer to the complaint. On
February 13, 2024, LG Aviation filed a notice of non-opposition to demurrer to
the complaint. As of April 3, 2024, no opposition has been filed. 
Allegations of the
Operative Complaint
The Complaint alleges as
follows:
            On or about September 5, 2018. at
Defendant Mark A. Liker, M.D.’s (“Liker”) request, Plaintiff entered into a
written agreement wherein Liker hired Plaintiff for legal services
(“Agreement”). The services pertained to legal work, advice, and coordination
of litigation with respect to the San Bernardino Superior Court Case No. CIVDS
1818632, FX Aviation Capital, LLC; CF Aviation Trust, LLC v. Airlux
Aircraft, Inc.; LG Aviation, Inc.; and DOES 1 to 50, inclusive
(“Aviation”). (Compl. ¶ 1.)
            The agreement between Plaintiff and
Liker encompassed both fixed and contingent fees. (Compl. ¶ 6; Ex. A.) On or
about November 2020, the attorney-client relationship was terminated by
Plaintiff due to irreconcilable differences. As of the date of the complaint’s
filing, Liker has failed to pay Plaintiff according to contract and/or based on
quantum meruit. (Compl. ¶ 7.)
            “Liker signed the Agreement
“personally” and on behalf of L.G. Aviation, Inc. (“L.G.”) and Airlux Aircraft,
Inc. (“Airlux”).” (Compl. ¶ 9.) Valuable legal services were rendered by
Plaintiff to Defendants. (Compl. ¶¶ 14, 16, 18.) Defendants enjoyed these
services to their benefits and failed to pay the reasonable fees incurred.”
(Compl. ¶¶ 15, 17, 19.)
            “Plaintiff has incurred costs on
behalf of Defendants and at the request of Liker. These include out-of-pocket
payments, which Liker was and is contractually bound to reimburse.” (Compl. ¶
21.) It was implied in the Agreement that all payments made by Plaintiff for
Defendants would be paid back in full. (Compl. ¶ 22.) 
Request for
Judicial Notice 
Defendant LG Aviation request that the Court take
judicial notice of:
A.   
Exhibit A
attached to the Declaration of Bradley C. Arnold: San Bernadino Superior Court
Case No. CIVDS 1818632 – FX Aviation Capital LLC v. Airlux Aircraft Inc.; LG
Aviation Inc., et al. 
As the court may
take judicial notice of court records of any court in this state and facts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and capable of
immediate and accurate determination, (See Evid. Code, §§ 452(d), (h),
and 453), the request for judicial notice is granted. 
Legal Standard
A demurrer
can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading
under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal 3d 311, 318.) No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). (Ion Equipment Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110
Cal.App.3d 868, 881.) 
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.
(Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App.
4th 740, 747.)  When considering
demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Taylor
v. City of Los Angeles Dep’t of Water & Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th
1216, 1228.)  In a demurrer proceeding,
the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice.  (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal. App. 4th 968,
994.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings
alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.  Therefore, it lies only where the defects
appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.”  (SKF Farms v. Superior Ct. (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)  
Meet and Confer
Requirement 
Code
of Civil Procedure § 430.41, subdivision (a) requires that “[b]efore filing a
demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer¿in
person or by telephone¿with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached
that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” The parties
are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive
pleading is due and if they are unable to meet the demurring party shall be
granted an automatic 30-day extension.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41(a)(2).)  The demurring party must also file and serve a declaration
detailing the meet and confer efforts.  (Id.¿at (a)(3).)¿ If an amended pleading is filed, the parties must
meet and confer again before a demurrer may be filed to the amended
pleading.  (Id.¿at (a).) 
There is a similar meet and confer requirement for motions to strike.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5.)
Defendant LG
Aviation Inc. has fulfilled the meet and confer requirement. (Arnold Decl. ¶ 2;
Ex. A.) 
Discussion
First Cause of Action: Breach of Contract
LG Aviation
contends the first through third causes of action fail to state a cause of
action because the legal matter on which it is based is still pending. Specifically,
LG Aviation asserts each one of the provisions for payment to Plaintiff require
the case to be settled or otherwise concluded by trial. LG Aviation also
asserts Plaintiff terminated his representation of Defendants in November of
2020 more than three years ago, which suggests that the contract is void for
his abandonment of his obligations to perform. Furthermore, LG Aviation
contends Plaintiff failed to comply with the statutory requirements for
contingent fee agreements under Business and Professions Code Section 6147. LG
Aviation also contends that Plaintiff failed to give notice to Defendants of
the Right to Arbitration pursuant to Business and Professions Code Section 6201.
As such, LG Aviation contends the Agreement between the parties is void. 
To state  a claim for breach of contract requires a
showing of  “(1) the existence of the
contract, (2) plaintiff's performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (D’Arrigo
Bros. of California v. United Farmworkers of America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th
790, 800.) 
Business and
Professions Code Section 6147 states in pertinent part, “[a]n attorney who
contracts to represent a client on a contingency fee basis shall, at the time
the contract is entered into, provide a duplicate copy of the contract, signed
by both the attorney and the client, or the client’s guardian or
representative, to the plaintiff, or to the client’s guardian or
representative. The contract shall be in writing and shall include, but is not
limited to, all of the following: (1) A statement
of the contingency fee rate that the client and attorney have agreed upon…(2) A
statement as to how disbursements and costs incurred in connection with the
prosecution or settlement of the claim will affect the contingency fee and the
client’s recovery…(3) A statement as to what extent, if any, the client could
be required to pay any compensation to the attorney for related matters that
arise out of their relationship not covered by their contingency fee contract.
This may include any amounts collected for the plaintiff by the attorney…(4)
Unless the claim is subject to the provisions of Section 6146, a statement that
the fee is not set by law but is negotiable between attorney and client…(5) If
the claim is subject to the provisions of Section 6146, a statement that the
rates set forth in that section are the maximum limits for the contingency fee
agreement, and that the attorney and client may negotiate a lower rate.” (Bus.
& Prof. Code, § 6147(a).) 
The statute requires
that notice be given to a client about its right to arbitrate any fee dispute
prior to filing suit. “The rules adopted by the board of trustees shall provide
that an attorney shall forward a written notice to the client prior to or at
the time of service of summons or claim in an action against the client, or
prior to or at the commencement of any other proceeding against the client
under a contract between attorney and client which provides for an alternative
to arbitration under this article, for recovery of fees, costs, or both. The
written notice shall be in the form that the board of trustees prescribes, and
shall include a statement of the client’s right to arbitration under this
article. Failure to give this notice shall be a ground for the dismissal of the
action or other proceeding. The notice shall not be required, however, prior to
initiating mediation of the dispute.” (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 6201(a).) 
Here, Plaintiff
has sufficiently alleged a contract that was entered into by Plaintiff and LG
Aviation. Plaintiff alleged he was to be the advising and coordinating attorney
on a cross-complaint to be filed in FX Aviation Capital LLC v. Airlux
Aircraft Inc.; LG Aviation Inc., et al. Moreover, Plaintiff alleged
nonperformance was due to termination of the attorney-client relationship on
the basis of irreconcilable differences. Plaintiff also alleged Defendants
breached the Agreement by failing to pay Plaintiff based on the terms of the
Agreement. However, the Agreement does not comply with Business and Professions
Code Section 6147(a) and even though it is a “hybrid” fee agreement, it is
still subject to Business and Professions Code Section 6147(a). (See Arnall
v. Superior Court (2010) 190 Cal.App.4th 360, 371.) Nonetheless, at the
demurrer stage, the Court must accept all well plead allegations in a complaint
as true and may not rely on extrinsic evidence beyond the complaint. The issue
of any violation of the Business and Professions Code is one best suited for a
motion for summary judgment as a demurrer tests the sufficiency of the
pleadings alone.  
The demurrer as
to the first cause of action for breach of contract is OVERRULED. 
Second Cause of Action: Quantum Meruit
LG Aviation
contends the claim for quantum meruit is not adequately pled. Specifically, LG
Aviation contends the Complaint only generally states that services were
requested by Defendants and services were rendered by Plaintiff but no specifics
as to what services were provided or the value of the dollar amount of services
that Plaintiff is claiming. LG Aviation asserts that by his own admission Plaintiff
withdrew from the case in November of 2020, thereby admitting that he did not
perform the services requested and could not have performed the services
requested because the underlying legal matter for which Plaintiff was hired is
still pending. 
“To recover in
quantum meruit, a party need not prove the existence of a contract, but it must
show the circumstances were such that ‘the services were rendered under some understanding
or expectation of both parties that compensation therefor was to be made.’” (Chodos
v. Borman (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 76, 96.) As such, “[t]he measure of
recovery in quantum meruit is the reasonable value of the services rendered
provided they were of direct benefit to the defendant.” (Id.) 
Plaintiff has sufficiently
alleged that legal services for advice and coordination of litigation with
respect to FX Aviation Capital LLC v. Airlux Aircraft Inc.; LG Aviation
Inc., et al. were rendered to Defendants at their request and pursuant to
the Agreement. Plaintiff further alleged the services were enjoyed by
Defendants and to their benefit. Moreover, Plaintiff alleged Defendants did not
pay for the services rendered. However, Plaintiff does not allege the
reasonable value of the services rendered to Defendants.
Therefore, the
demurrer as to the second cause of action for quantum meruit is SUSTAINED with 20
days leave to amend. 
Third Cause of Action: Express and Implied Indemnity

LG Aviation
contends the claim for express and implied indemnity is not adequately pled. Specifically,
LG Aviation argues Plaintiff does not identify with any specificity the costs
and expenses upon which Plaintiff is seeking indemnification, to whom those
costs and expenses were allegedly paid by Plaintiff, when these costs and
expenses were incurred and paid by Plaintiff, or the specific dollar amount of
the costs and expenses paid that Plaintiff is seeking indemnification from LG
Aviation. 
“The elements of
a cause of action for indemnity are (1) a showing of fault on the part of the
indemnitor and (2) resulting damages to the indemnitee for which the indemnitor
is contractually or equitably responsible.” (Great Western Drywall, Inc. v.
Interstate Fire & Casualty Co. (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041.) 
            Plaintiff
sufficiently alleged he incurred costs on behalf of Defendant and at their
request including out-of-pocket payments. Plaintiff further alleged Defendants
were contractually bound to reimburse him for these costs. Moreover, Plaintiff
alleged it was implied that all payments made by him for Defendants would be
paid back in full. Lastly, Plaintiff alleged Defendants failed to pay him
reasonable fees incurred. LG Aviation cites to no authority legal or otherwise
that requires more specificity as to the out-of-pocket payments for which Plaintiff
is seeking reimbursement, to whom those costs were allegedly paid, when these
costs were incurred and paid, or the specific dollar amount of the costs and
expense paid. 
            Therefore,
the demurrer as to the third cause of action for express and implied indemnity
is OVERRULED.           
Conclusion and ORDER
            Based on the foregoing, Defendant LG
Aviation Inc.’s demurrer to the first and third causes of action is OVERRULED
and to the second cause of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend.
            Moving Party to give notice. 
DATED: April 8, 2024
                                                                                    ___________________________
                                                                                          Yolanda
Orozco
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court