  Case Number:  20STCV44336    Hearing Date:   April 5, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:      April 5, 2024                                  TRIAL DATE:  November
12, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         James Green v. Aerotek,
Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 20STCV44336 
 





















 
MOTION
TO COMPEL DEPOSITION OF PLAINTIFF JAMES GREEN



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Sunpower Corporation
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff James
Green
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
            On November 18, 2020, Plaintiff James Green (“Plaintiff” or
“Green”) filed this wrongful termination action against Defendants, Aerotek,
Inc., Sunpower Solar, Inc., and John Bleem. 
The First Amended Complaint (FAC) is the operative pleading.  On October 5, 2021, Plaintiff filed an
amendment to the FAC naming Sunpower Corporation as Doe 1.[1]
 
            On February
22, 2024, Sunpower Corporation (hereafter, “Sunpower”) filed this motion to
compel Green’s deposition.[2]  Sunpower requests sanctions against Green.
 
            Green filed
an opposition.  Sunpower replied.
                         
II.        LEGAL STANDARDS
 
Any party may obtain discovery by
taking in California the oral deposition of any person.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2025.010.)  “If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action…without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to
appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd.
(a).)   
 
            Monetary
Sanctions¿ 
¿ 
            Code
of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 is a general statute authorizing the Court
to impose discovery sanctions for “misuse of the discovery process,” which
includes (without limitation) a variety of conduct such as: making, without
substantial justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an
evasive response to discovery; and unsuccessfully and without substantial
justification making or opposing a motion to compel or limit discovery.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.)¿¿ 
¿ 
            If
sanctions are sought, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.040 requires that
the notice specify the identity of the person against whom sanctions are sought
and the type of sanction requested, that the motion be supported in the points
and authorities, and the facts be set forth in a declaration supporting the
amount of any monetary sanction.¿¿¿¿ 
 
            “If
a motion under [Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450] subdivision (a) is
granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and
against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless
the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)¿¿¿¿ 
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
            Sunpower
seeks an order compelling Green to appear for deposition.  Green’s deposition was properly noticed on
five occasions between May 4, 2023, to December 11, 2023.  Green timely objected to each notice due to
unavailability.  (See Wang Decl.)  To date, Green’s deposition has not been
taken.  
 
            Green
does not dispute having been properly served with deposition notices.  Nonetheless, he resists the motion to compel
on the grounds that (1) Sunpower has engaged in discovery abuse and (2) Sunpower
did not meet and confer in good faith prior to filing this motion.  
 
            Green’s
first argument lacks merit.  It rests on
the unspoken premise that Green should not be compelled to appear for
deposition because of Sunpower’s conduct in other discovery matters.  However, Sunpower’s conduct in those other
matters is not relevant to the issue presented herein: whether Green must
appear for deposition.  The court
declines to wade into issues that are not properly before the court.
 
            As
to Sunpower’s alleged failure to meet and confer in good faith, Green offers email
correspondence wherein opposing counsel refused to provide deposition dates for
Sunpower’s witness until Plaintiff sat for deposition first.  (See Bellah Decl., ¶ 9, Exh. 5.)  This is an iteration of Plaintiff’s first
argument.  Sunpower’s refusal to make its
witness available for deposition is not relevant to Plaintiff’s availability
for deposition.  To the extent Plaintiff
takes issue with Sunpower’s alleged refusal to provide deposition dates for its
witness, Plaintiff’s recourse is to file its own motion to compel.  Accordingly, Sunpower is entitled to an order
compelling Green to appear for deposition.
 
            Monetary
Sanctions
 
            Sunpower
requests sanctions against Green.  In the
context of a motion to compel a party’s deposition, sanctions are mandatory,
unless the court finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)¿¿Here, the court finds other circumstances make the
imposition of sanctions unjust.  Plaintiff
has detailed his efforts to engage in discovery in good faith.  Accordingly, the court declines to
impose sanctions.  
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
            The motion
is GRANTED.  Plaintiff James Green is
ordered to appear for deposition within 30 days of this order.
 
            The request
for sanctions is DENIED. 
 
Moving party to give notice, unless waived.  
 
 
Dated:   April 5, 2024                                 




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
 
            
 


