 Case Number:  22STCV40599    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



NAM HO PARK, et al. 
  
        
  vs.
 
SUNDAY MEDIA, INC dba SUNDAY NEWS
  USA  
  


 Case
  No.:  22STCV40599    
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 26, 2024




 
 
            After review
of Plaintiff’s default judgment packet, the Court has identified the following
deficiencies: 
 
-         
Plaintiffs claim that “at approximately the same time
as the defamatory articles were published, Plaintiffs were in the final stages
of a multi-million-dollar agreement with an affiliate of SK Telecom, part of
the SK Group, one of the largest Korean Chaebols (large business conglomerates
such as Samsung Group, Hyundai Motor Group, and LG Group)”. (585 Decl. ¶ 22)
Plaintiffs further claim that this agreement was for $10 million, and that the
SK Telecom affiliate suddenly backed away from the deal, specifically
indicating that they were doing so due to the allegations in the Defamatory
Articles.
 
However, to show this, Plaintiffs
submitted a template agreement for “Investor” which in no way establishes that
there were pending negotiations with SK Telecom. Indeed, the draft agreement
states the parties as “Nesten Inc” and “Xxxx GROUP (Investor).” Moreover, while
Plaintiffs claim that the amount was eventually negotiated to $10 million, the
template agreement provides for $5 million investments, and there is no
evidence to support their contention this was increased to $10 million (indeed,
there is no evidence of negotiations or any draft agreement between the two
parties). Finally, Plaintiffs did not submit any evidence to show that SK
Telecom specifically indicated that these articles were responsible for them
backing away.
 
Plaintiffs must submit evidence
which could show: (1) that they were in negotiations with SK Group for $10
million; and (2) that SK Group saw the defamatory articles and specifically
indicated that they were backing away from the deal because of them. 
 
 
-         
Plaintiff must set forth a summary of the case wherein
all applicable legal authority is presented. This includes setting the forth
the applicable defamation standard, and an application of the facts to show
that each element has been met as to defamation per se. Moreover, Plaintiff
must set forth legal support which could show that liability can be imposed on
the publisher, the editor, and reporter of the alleged defamatory articles. 