 Case Number:  24STCV13785    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  34 Defendant Menashi Cohen’s Motion to Dismiss is GRANTED.

 
Background
 
Plaintiff
the State of Indiana ("Plaintiff") alleges as follows:
 
Fran and Menashi Cohen ("Fran" and
"Menashi" and collectively "Defendants") misappropriated
property of Plaintiff by illicitly retaining and failing to report money to the
State of Indiana that were owed for sales taxes, use taxes, or other taxes. The
Defendants misappropriated Plaintiff's monies by knowingly falsifying
information in tax documents, tax returns, Small Business Administration loan
documents, and other documents. Defendants undercalculated and underpaid the
amount due and owing to Plaintiff. Defendants knowingly or intentionally used
the ill-gotten gains to acquire personal and real property including the
property located at 623 N. Beverly Drive, Beverly Hills, CA 90210
("Beverly Hills Property"). Defendants also conducted, supervised, or
facilitated transactions involving the proceeds of the ill-gotten gains.
 
Plaintiff is informed and believes, and thereon
alleges that Defendants used their ill-gotten monies that rightfully belong to
Plaintiff to purchase, meet their loan obligations, maintain, and repair the
Beverly Hills Property. Therefore, Plaintiff is entitled to the legal and
equitable ownership of the Beverly Hills Property. Plaintiff is informed and
believes, and thereon alleges that Defendants resided in the Beverly Hills
Property until 2013. In 2016, Defendants transferred the Beverly Hills Property
to Defendant Quarteroak, LLC ("Quarteroak"), a limited liability
company in which Fran is the sole member.
            
On June 3,
2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting causes of action against
Defendants, Quarteroak, and Does 1-25 for:
 
1.              
Intentional Misrepresentation;
2.              
Conversion;
3.              
Unjust Enrichment; and
4.              
Violation of California Penal Code§ 496(c). 
 
On July 5,
2024, Menashi filed a Motion to Dismiss (“First Motion to Dismiss”). Plaintiff
filed its Opposition on August 16, 2024. Menashi filed his Reply on August 22,
2024. The court held a hearing on the First Motion to Dismiss on August 29,
2024, and it took the matter under submission after the hearing. On September
11, 2024, the court denied Menashi’s First Motion to Dismiss without prejudice.
 
On October
7, 2024, Menashi filed a second Motion to Dismiss (“Second Motion to Dismiss”).
On November 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed its Opposition. As of November 14, 2024,
Menashi has not filed a Reply. 
 
Legal Standard
 
            "When
a court upon motion of a party or its own motion finds that in the interest of
substantial justice an action should be heard in a forum outside the state, the
court shall stay or dismiss the action in whole or in part on any conditions
that may be just." (Code Civ. Proc.,§ 410.30, subd. (a).) The doctrine of forum
non conveniens is "an equitable doctrine invoking the discretionary
power of a court to decline to exercise the jurisdiction it has over a
transitory cause of action when it believes that the action may be more
appropriately and justly tried elsewhere." (Stangvik v. Shiley Inc. (1991)
54 Cal.3d 744, 751.) A "court must first determine whether the alternate
forum is a 'suitable' place for trial." (Id., at pp. 751-52.)
Second, if it is, the court must "consider the private interests of the
litigants and the interests of the public in retaining the action for trial in
California." (Ibid.) 
 
            The
private interest factors are those that make trial expeditious and relatively
inexpensive, including: (1) ease of access to sources of proof; (2) the cost of
obtaining attendance of witnesses; and (3) the availability of compulsory
process for attendance of unwilling witnesses. (Ibid.) The public interest factors include more general concerns
related to the local community in which the case will be tried, namely: (1)
avoidance of overburdening local courts with congested calendars; (2)
protecting the interests of potential jurors; and (3) weighing the competing
interests of California and the alternate jurisdiction in the litigation. (Ibid.) If the court finds that "in
the interest of substantial justice" an action filed in California should
be adjudicated elsewhere, the court may stay or dismiss the action on such
conditions as may be just. (Ibid.)
 
Discussion
 
Request for Judicial Notice 
 
            Judicial notice may be taken of
“[f]acts and propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are
capable of immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of
reasonably indisputable accuracy.” (Evid. Code §§ 452(c), (h).) Pursuant to
Evid. Code § 452(d), this court may also take judicial notice of the records of
any court of record of the United States. However, while courts are free to
take judicial notice of the existence of each document in a court file,
including the truth of results reached, they may not take judicial notice of
the truth of hearsay statements in decisions and court files.' " (In re
Vicks (2013) 56 Cal.4th 274, 314, quoting Lockley v. Law Office of
Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875, 882.)
 
            The
court grants Menashi’s Request for Judicial Notice.
            
            The
court grants Plaintiff’s Request for Judicial Notice as to Nos. 1-6, and 10 and
denies as to Nos. 7-9 as it appears Plaintiff seeks the court to take judicial
notice of the truth of hearsay statements. 
 
Evidentiary Objections  
 
            Plaintiff’s
evidentiary objections to Menashi’s evidence supporting his motion are
overruled.  
 
CCP § 1008(a) 
 
            On
September 11, 2024, the court issued an order denying Menashi’s First Motion to
Dismiss without prejudice. (Minute Order dated September 11, 2024, at pp. 3-4.)
The court reasoned that Menashi did not provide sufficient evidence to make the
determination to dismiss the case explaining that “[t]o the extent the court
had a better factual foundation of the limitations associated with litigating
essentiality this lis pendis related matter in this court in order to
preserve potential collection efforts in Indiana, the result may have been
different.” (Id., at p. 4.) 
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that Menashi’s Second Motion to Dismiss expressly
seeks reconsideration of the September 11, 2024 court’s ruling and should be
analyzed under California Code of Civil Procedure section 1008. (Opp., at p.
7.)  As such, Plaintiff argues that Menashi’s
motion is untimely as it was filed past the statutory deadline. (Ibid.) 
 
            The court notes that its previous
ruling on September 11, 2024, allows Menashi to bring forth his Second Motion
to Dismiss. Nevertheless, even if Menashi’s second motion should be analyzed
under CCP section 1008 making it untimely, the court relies on California Code
of Civil Procedure section 410.30, subdivision (a), for the authority to find,
on its own motion, that in the interest of substantial justice this action
should be dismissed and heard in Indiana for the reasons explained below. 
 
Forum Non Conveniens 
 
            Menashi seeks to dismiss this action
pursuant to section 410.30(a) for forum non conveniens based on Indiana being a
suitable alternative forum and the balancing of interests favoring dismissal. 
 
A.    Suitable Alternative Forum 
 
            A suitable alternative forum exists
when “… defendants are subject to the court’s jurisdiction and the cause of
action is not barred by the statute of limitations.” (Guimei v. General
Electric Co. (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 689, 694.)
 
            Menashi
argues that Indiana is a suitable alternative forum. (Second Motion to Dismiss,
at p. 7.) Menashi contends that Indiana courts have jurisdiction over him since
Plaintiff already initiated civil and criminal actions against Menashi in
Indiana based on the same allegations as those brought here. (Id., at p.
8.) Menashi also argues that an Indiana state court judge asserted jurisdiction
over the Beverly Hills Property in Menashi’s divorce proceedings by ordering
sale of the property. (Ibid.) 
            
            Additionally,
Menashi argues that there is no reasonable prospect that the statute of
limitations will bar recovery in Indiana if this current case is dismissed due
to Plaintiff filing suit in Indiana two years prior to suing Menashi in
California. (Id., at p. 9.) 
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff does not dispute that Indiana has personal jurisdiction
over Menashi. (Opp., at p. 8.) Instead, Plaintiff argues that Menashi does not
rescind his prior reserved right to raise a statute of limitations defense which
would render Indiana as an unsuitable alternative forum. (Ibid.) Plaintiff
also argues that only California has jurisdiction over property in this state.
(Id., at p. 10.) 
 
            As
the court noted in its September 11, 2024 order, Plaintiff previously made
similar arguments regarding a statute of limitations issue. The court then explained
that such arguments “begs the question why Plaintiff is using a separate court
to litigate a matter exclusively in the jurisdiction of its own court.” (Minute
Order dated September 11, 2024, at p. 3.)  As such, Plaintiff’s statute of limitations
arguments does not render Indiana any less suitable than California to litigate
the current action. The court also further reasoned that “it appears that
Plaintiff is attempting to file this lawsuit in order to protect an asset that
would be used to enforce a potential judgment issued in Indiana.” (Ibid.)
Here, there is nothing presented by Plaintiff to dispute the court’s previous
finding. Furthermore, Menashi’s purported declarations from Counsel John P.
Schafer and Counsel Jonathan A. Bont further show that the current California
action derives, in large part, from Menashi’s alleged, wrongful conduct in
Indiana. As such, there is nothing else before the court to disprove the
conclusion that the conduct in Indiana tied to California involves nothing more
than the ill-gotten proceeds that may have been used to acquire the Beverly
Hills Property. Moreover, Plaintiff’s argument that only California has
jurisdiction over the Beverly Hills Property is meritless since there are procedures
available to Plaintiff to enforce an Indiana judgment regarding the property even
if it is in California. 
 
            Thus,
the court finds that Indiana is a suitable alternative forum.
 
B.    Public and Private Interest Factors
 
            The
second part of the analysis is the weighing and balancing of private and public
factors. (National Football League, supra, 216, Cal.App.4th at p. 918.)
“The private interest facts are those that make trial and the enforceability of
the ensuring judgment expeditious and relatively inexpensive, such as the ease
of access to sources of proof, the cost of obtaining attendance of witnesses,
and the availability of compulsory process for attendance of unwilling
witnesses. The public interest facts include avoidance of overburdening local
courts with congested calendars, protecting the interest of potential jurors so
that they are not called upon to decide cases in which the local community has
little concern, and the weighing of competing interests of California and the
alternative jurisdiction in the litigation.” (Morris v. AGFA Corp.
(2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1452, 1463-1464.) Additionally, in determining whether
to issue a stay, the court considers whether the rights of the parties can best
be determined by the court of the other jurisdiction because of the nature of
the subject matter [and] the stage to which the proceedings in the other court
have already advanced.” (Century Indemnity Co. v. Bank of America (1997)
58 Cal.App.4th 408, 412.)
 
            Menashi
argues that the private interest factors favor the dismissal of this action. (Second Motion to Dismiss, at p.
10.) Menashi contends that most, if not all, witnesses and documentary evidence
relating to Menashi’s alleged wrongful conduct and Plaintiff’s alleged harm are
in Indiana. (Id.; Bont Decl., ¶¶ 7-10; Schafer Decl., ¶¶ 8-10.) Menashi also
argues that it would be unjust to burden Menashi with covering the expenses of bringing
witnesses to California assuming that they would be willing to travel. (Second
Motion to Dismiss, at p. 11.) Menashi also argues that California courts have
no authority to compel non-party Indiana witnesses to produce documents or testimony
providing Plaintiff an advantage making it unjust to litigate this case in
California. (Ibid.)  
 
            Menashi
also argues that the public intertest factors favor dismissal. (Id., at
p. 13.) Menashi contends that the dismissal of this action will prevent court
congestion and protect the interests of potential jurors. (Ibid.)
Menashi argues that since the alleged wrongful conduct and harm took place in
Indiana, the court will be burdened with resolving choice of law issues which
will ultimately lead to applying Indiana law. (Ibid.) Menashi also
argues that since the current action does not concern the title or ownership of
the Beverly Hills Property, and instead seeks to impose personal liability
against Menashi, there is no sufficient nexus between the claims alleged and
California as a forum. (Id., at p. 14.) Lastly, Menashi argues that
Indiana has an overriding interest in prosecuting the alleged civil wrongs
committed by Menashi while California has no substantial interest in enforcing
Indiana tax law. (Id., at p. 15.) 
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that Menashi has failed to submit any facts
demonstrating any real limitations in litigating the California action since
the witnesses in Indiana are not the only witnesses needed here. (Opp., at p.
9.) Additionally, Plaintiff argues that the declarations provided by Menashi
are insufficient since they do not specify which witnesses or documents are
needed in defense of this case and how it would be burdensome to retrieve such
evidence. (Ibid.) Plaintiff also argues that the private interest
factors weigh in favor of denying Menashi’s motion. (Id., at p. 10.)
Plaintiff contends that since the funds Menashi allegedly misappropriated are
currently invested in the Beverly Hills Property, Plaintiff requires this lis
pendes action, that can only be maintained in California, to prevent Defendants
from selling the property. (Id., at pp. 11-12.) 
 
            Plaintiff
also argues that the public interest factors favor California. (Id., at
p. 14.) Plaintiff contends that California will not be overburdened by this
action since litigating it will not expose California courts to hundreds of
potential litigants. (Ibid.)  Plaintiff
also argues that it will not be a burden on jurors to participate in this
action since California residents care about the effect fraud and theft has on
their real estate markets. (Ibid.) Plaintiff contends that the interest
of California and Indiana favor California as the forum. (Ibid.) Since
Plaintiff is the State of Indiana and agrees that the interests of its
residents are better served by maintaining this action in California, Plaintiff
can secure a lis pendens over the Beverly Hills Property preventing
Defendants from selling the property and putting the stolen funds out of reach
from Plaintiff to recover. (Id., at p. 15.)
 
            The
court finds that the balancing of factors favors the dismissal of this action.
As argued in opposition, Plaintiff’s purpose in filing this action is solely to
secure a lis pendis over the Beverly Hills Property but would ultimately
rely on the Indiana actions to enforce a judgment regarding the property. As
noted in the September 11, 2024 order, “[t]he court does not intend to allow its
limited resources [to be] used as a place holder for a litigant – in this case
Plaintiff – to collect on its judgment.” (Minute Order dated September 11,
2024, at p. 3.) Additionally, the court had recognized the obvious constitutional
issues presented with Menashi submitting a declaration in support of his
motion. (Id., at p. 4.) Nevertheless, Menashi provided counsels’ declarations
to provide a factual foundation of the limitations associated with litigating
this action in California. 
 
            Since
the balancing of the private and public interest factors favors dismissal, the
motion is granted. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant Menashi Cohen’s Motion to
Dismiss is GRANTED. 