  Case Number:  23STCP01472    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  34 Court Appointed Receiver
Ryan C. Baker’s Motion to Approve Settlement is GRANTED. 
 
Background
On May 3, 2023 Jila
Babazadeh-Shraga (“Jila”) filed a Complaint against Gohar Babazadeh (“Gohar”),
Elizabeth Babazadeh, as Executor of The Estate of Louise Babazadeh, Elizabeth
Babazadeh, as Trustee of The Babazadeh Family Trust (“Elizabeth”), Shalom
Brothers Enterprises, L.P. (“Shalom”); Hayem’s Daughters, Inc. (“Hayem”); and
all persons unknown claiming any legal or equitable right, title, estate, lien
or interest in the property described in the complaint adverse to Jila’s title,
or any cloud on Jila’s title.
The caption of the
complaint lists seven causes of action; however, the body of the complaint only
alleges four: (1) winding down and liquidation of Shalom against Shalom, Gohar,
and Elizabeth; (2) judicial dissolution of Hayem against Hayem, Gohar, and Elizabeth;
(3) partition of 2207 Veteran Avenue, Los Angeles, California 90064 (“Veteran
Property”) against Gohar and anyone unknown persons claiming an interest in the
Veteran Property; and (4) declaratory relief against Gohar and Elizabeth.
The complaint stems from
allegations that a partnership is being continued contrary to its governing
documents. Shalom is a limited partnership in which Jila owns 33.33%.
(Complaint, ¶ 1.) Jila’ sister Gohar also owns 33.33% of Shalom, while Ebrahim
Babazadeh (“Ebrahim”) was the General Partner. (Id. at ¶2.) Pursuant to the
Partnership Agreement (“PA”) that governed Shalom, the death of a General
Partner triggered the winding down of Shalom. (Complaint, Exh. 1, ¶2.6.)
Ebrahim died on June 5, 2010. However, the complaint alleges Gohar seized
control of Shalom and has continued to operate Shalom for 13 years as a limited
partner. (Complaint, ¶10.) Jila then filed suit requesting (1) the wind up and
liquidation of Shalom, (2) the dissolution and wind up of Hayem, a corporation
where both sisters own 33.33% of stock, and (3) the partition by sale of real
property located at 2207 Veteran Avenue, Los Angeles, California 90034 (the
“Veteran Property”) jointly owned by Jila and Gohar.
On June 22, 2023, Gohar
filed a cross-complaint alleging causes of action against Jila and Roes 1-25
for:
1.              
Winding Down and
Liquidation of Shalom Brothers Enterprise, L.P.; and 
2.              
Partition. 
On March 7, 2024, the
court appointed Ryan C. Baker (“Baker”) as the Receiver in the action. 
On August 15, 2024, the court
entered the parties’ Stipulation Expanding the Receiver’s Authority which
authorized Baker to engage counsel to represent Shalom in the matter Anthony
Bouyer v. Shalom Brother Enterprises (“ADA Action”), case no. 23STCV22542, and
any other litigation matters that may arise. 
On September 11, 2024,
the court granted Jila’s Motion for Summary Judgment and ordered to (1)
terminate, wind down, and liquidate Shalom in accordance with the PA that
governed Shalom; (2) order a judicial dissolution of Hayem and grant judicial
supervision of the winding up of Hayem, and (3) order a sale and partition of
the Veteran Property, with proceeds of the sale to be divided in accordance
with the ownership of the Veteran Property which is 50% each to Jila and Gohar.

On October 2, 2024, Baker
filed this Motion to Approve Settlement in the ADA action. As of November 14,
2024, no opposition or other response has been filed.  
On November 8, 2024, the
court denied Jila’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings and granted Gohar’s
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings. On November 8, 2024, Jila filed a Notice
of Appeal/Cross Appeal regarding the court’s ruling on Jila’s Motion for
Judgment on the Pleadings. 
Legal
Standard
 
            Code
of Civil Procedure section 664.6 states that “[i]f parties to pending
litigation stipulate, in writing signed by the parties outside the presence of
the court or orally before the court, for settlement of the case, or part
thereof, the court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms of
the settlement.” (CCP § 664.6.) 
 
Discussion
            
            According to the parties’ Stipulation Expanding the Receiver’s Authority entered
into on August 15, 2024, Baker retained counsel to represent Shalom in the ADA
Action brought by Antony Bouyer (“Bouyer”). (Motion, at p. 4.) Baker contends
that he has reached a conditional settlement agreement in the ADA Action,
subject and conditioned on this court’s approval. (Ibid.) Bouyer’s
counsel has agreed to allow Baker to file this motion. (Id.; Baker
Decl., Exh. 3.) The ADA Action remains pending awaiting approval of the
settlement. (Ibid.)
 
            Baker
argues that the proposed settlement agreement is fair and in the best interest
of the Receivership Estate. (Baker Decl., Exh. 6.) To avoid unnecessary
litigation and expenses, Baker negotiated with Bouyer and reached a conditional
settlement in the amount of $11,000.00 and to remediate the property to comply
with ADA statutes. (Motion, at p. 5.)  Baker is informed that all parties to this
action will agree and not oppose the terms of the settlement agreement. (Baker
Decl., Exh. 6.)
 
            No
opposition or response has been filed. 
 
            Accordingly,
the motion is granted. 
 
Conclusion
 
Court
Appointed Receiver Ryan C. Baker’s Motion to Approve Settlement is GRANTED. Court Appointed Receiver
Ryan C. Baker’s Petition for Instructions.  BackgroundOn May 3, 2023 Jila
Babazadeh-Shraga (“Jila”) filed a Complaint against Gohar Babazadeh (“Gohar”),
Elizabeth Babazadeh, as Executor of The Estate of Louise Babazadeh, Elizabeth
Babazadeh, as Trustee of The Babazadeh Family Trust (“Elizabeth”), Shalom
Brothers Enterprises, L.P. (“Shalom”); Hayem’s Daughters, Inc. (“Hayem”); and
all persons unknown claiming any legal or equitable right, title, estate, lien
or interest in the property described in the complaint adverse to Jila’s title,
or any cloud on Jila’s title.The caption of the
complaint lists seven causes of action; however, the body of the complaint only
alleges four: (1) winding down and liquidation of Shalom against Shalom, Gohar,
and Elizabeth; (2) judicial dissolution of Hayem against Hayem, Gohar, and Elizabeth;
(3) partition of 2207 Veteran Avenue, Los Angeles, California 90064 (“Veteran
Property”) against Gohar and anyone unknown persons claiming an interest in the
Veteran Property; and (4) declaratory relief against Gohar and Elizabeth.The complaint stems from
allegations that a partnership is being continued contrary to its governing
documents. Shalom is a limited partnership in which Jila owns 33.33%.
(Complaint, ¶ 1.) Jila’ sister Gohar also owns 33.33% of Shalom, while Ebrahim
Babazadeh (“Ebrahim”) was the General Partner. (Id. at ¶2.) Pursuant to the
Partnership Agreement (“PA”) that governed Shalom, the death of a General
Partner triggered the winding down of Shalom. (Complaint, Exh. 1, ¶2.6.)
Ebrahim died on June 5, 2010. However, the complaint alleges Gohar seized
control of Shalom and has continued to operate Shalom for 13 years as a limited
partner. (Complaint, ¶10.) Jila then filed suit requesting (1) the wind up and
liquidation of Shalom, (2) the dissolution and wind up of Hayem, a corporation
where both sisters own 33.33% of stock, and (3) the partition by sale of real
property located at 2207 Veteran Avenue, Los Angeles, California 90034 (the
“Veteran Property”) jointly owned by Jila and Gohar.On June 22, 2023, Gohar
filed a cross-complaint alleging causes of action against Jila and Roes 1-25
for:1.              
Winding Down and
Liquidation of Shalom Brothers Enterprise, L.P.; and 2.              
Partition. On March 7, 2024, the
court appointed Ryan C. Baker (“Baker”) as the Receiver in the action. On August 15, 2024, the
court entered the parties’ Stipulation Expanding the Receiver’s Authority. On September 11, 2024,
the court granted Jila’s Motion for Summary Judgment and ordered to (1)
terminate, wind down, and liquidate Shalom in accordance with the PA that
governed Shalom; (2) order a judicial dissolution of Hayem and grant judicial
supervision of the winding up of Hayem, and (3) order a sale and partition of
the Veteran Property, with proceeds of the sale to be divided in accordance
with the ownership of the Veteran Property which is 50% each to Jila and Gohar.
On October 11, 2024,
Baker filed this Petition for Instructions. On November 5, 2024, Jila filed an
opposition to Baker’s petition. On November 6, 2024, Gohar filed a response in
support of Baker’s petition. On November 7, 2024, Jila filed joinder on behalf
of the Estate of Jacklin Babazadeh to Jila’s opposition. On November 8, 2024, the
court denied Jila’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings and granted Gohar’s
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings. On November 8, 2024, Jila filed a Notice
of Appeal/Cross Appeal regarding the court’s ruling on Jila’s Motion for Judgment
on the Pleadings. Discussion                        On March 7, 2024, Baker was
appointed as Receiver over the commercial building located at 1001 N. Vermont
Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90029 (“Property”). (Order Appointing Receiver dated
March 7, 2024.) Baker was directed to take possession of and manage the Property,
care for the Property, and incur expenses for the maintenance of the Property.
(Petition, at p. 2.)              On August 15, 2024, the parties to
this action filed a Stipulation Expanding the Receiver’s Authority to include
the power to 1) sell the Property via general public sale, 2) negotiate lease
extension options with the current tenant, 3) engage third-party CPA to prepare
the 2022 and 2023 tax returns of Shalom Brothers
Enterprises, L.P. (“Shalom”), and 4) engage counsel to defend lawsuits against
Shalom. (Stipulation dated August 15, 2024, at pp. 7-9.)              Baker petitions the court for
instructions regarding 1) whether Baker should perform an accounting of Shalom’s
partners’ capital accounts; 2) a potential
distribution to the parties of the Receivership Estate; and 3) a demand to pay
for the parties’ attorney’s fees. (Petition, at p. 2.)  Capital Accounts              Baker
contends that a dispute arose between the parties during the preparation of the
2022 and 2023 tax returns related to the partners’ capital accounts which
establish each partner’s equity and contributions to Shalom. (Id., at p.
3.) Specifically, Gohar disputes the accuracy of the partners’ capital account
numbers that had been filed in prior years. (Ibid.) Baker argues that if
the capital account numbers are indeed faulty, then the calculations regarding
the 2022 and 2023 tax return filings will also be affected. (Ibid.) As
such, Gohar demanded an accounting to be performed on the capital accounts
prior to the tax returns being filed. (Ibid.) Jila objected stating that
the accounting should be done at a later date, taking the position that Baker
does not have the authority to perform such accounting. (Ibid.) Moreover,
Baker was informed by the CPA retained that changes to the partner’s capital
accounts would not materially affect the 2022 and 2023 income amounts. (Ibid.)
However, Baker contends that the capital accounts will have an effect on future
distributions to the parties once the Property is sold and distributions are
calculated, and may affect the 2024 tax returns. (Ibid.) Thus, Baker
seeks the court for instructions regarding whether Baker should not perform an
accounting on the partners’ capital accounts at this time and instead file the
2022 and 2023 tax returns based on prior year’s information, or perform an
accounting on the capital accounts prior to filing the 2022 and 2023 tax
returns ordering the parties to cooperate and provide Baker all necessary
information he requests. (Id., at p. 4.) Baker leans in favor of proceeding
with the accounting as it may be more difficult to do so in the future. (Ibid.)             In
opposition, Jila argues that Baker does not have the authority to carry out an
accounting of the capital accounts based on the parties Stipulation
Expanding the Receiver’s Authority. (Opp., at pp.
8-9.) Jila contends that Baker is solely tasked with filing Shalom’s 2022 and
2023 tax returns. (Id., at p. 13-14.) Thus, Jila argues that since Baker
cannot establish that an accounting is necessary to make such filings, Baker
has no power to carry it out. (Ibid.)              In
response, Gohar argues that since the capital accounts need to be disclosed in
the tax return filings, Baker is authorized to determine accurate numbers to
appropriately file. (Response, at pp. 12-13.)              The court
defers to the parties’ Stipulation Expanding the Receiver’s Authority to provide Baker with instructions. The stipulation
provides, in relevant part, as follows:              “3.    Tax Returns a.     
The Receiver is
authorized to engage a third-party CPA for the purposes of completing the 2022
and 2023 federal and state tax returns for Shalom and distributing the K-1s to
the parties. b.    
The Receiver is
authorized to expend funds from the receivership estate to pay for the CPA’s
services. c.     
The Parties shall
cooperate in providing the Receiver with any and all information necessary to
prepare the tax returns. d.    
If the Receiver is the
subject of any tax investigation, audit, or charge, relating to the federal,
state or local tax obligations of Shalom, then Shalom shall fully indemnify the
Receiver and hold him harmless for acts taken on behalf of Shalom done in good
faith and without gross negligence to the fullest extent available under Federal
and State law.”(Stipulation dated August 15, 2024, at pp. 8-9.)             It is
undisputed that the parties provided Baker with the authority to complete
Shalom’s 2022 and 2023 tax filings. Thus, the issue regarding the partner’s
capital account numbers directly affect the tax documents, however small that
effect is. As such, it is within the duties of Baker, as the Receiver, to accurately
report Shalom’s tax information.             The court
instructs Baker to perform an accounting on the partners’ capital accounts
prior to filing Shalom’s 2022 and 2023 tax returns. The parties must cooperate
and provide Baker all necessary information requested to perform such
accounting as required by the Parties’ stipulation.Distributions              Baker
seeks instructions on whether Baker should make a distribution, totaling $500,000.00,
to the parties as outlined in the moving papers. (Petition, at pp. 4-5.)              After reviewing
the court’s Order Appointing Receiver and the parties’ Stipulation
Expanding the Receiver’s Authority, the court finds
that Baker does not have the power to make any distributions on behalf of the
Receivership Estate. As such, the court cannot entertain the parties’ arguments
regarding Baker’s petition for instructions on this issue. The parties must
explicitly grant Baker the power over distributions before instructions can be
provided if the issue persists.   Attorney’s Fees              Baker
seeks instructions regarding the parties’ demands for payment of attorney’s
fees incurred in the process of litigation. (Petition, at pp. 5-6.)              As Baker
notes on his petition, Baker does not have the authority to make payments on
attorney’s fees as neither the court’s Order Appointing Receiver nor the
parties’ Stipulation Expanding the Receiver’s Authority grants such
power to Baker. Additionally, the court notes that the issue regarding
attorney’s fees is currently under review of the court through Jila’s Motion
for Attorney’s Fees set for hearing on January 22, 2025. The court also finds
that a decision on attorney’s fees would be premature at this stage of the
case. As such, no payment of attorney’s fees should be made unless the parties
stipulate or agree on how to handle the issue.             Conclusion 
            See discussion above. 