 Case Number:  22STCV01379    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  T Motion to Continue Trial and Reopen DiscoveryMoving Party: Jack Abraov (Defendant) Responding Party: Danny Suleminian (Plaintiff); Shirley Suleminian (Plaintiff)Tentative Ruling: GRANTBACKGROUNDThis action is one of a long contentious conflict between the parties, arising from an ongoing dispute between business partners and their respective spouses. This case was filed on January 13, 2022 and was continued by joint stipulation between the parties. To date, it has been continued six times. MOVING PARTY POSITIONDefendants request that the Court continue trial by three months—from August 19, 2024 to November 19, 2024—to allow Defendants to depose Dr. David K. Wellisch (Dr. Wellisch) and arrange an independent mental examination (“IME”) of Mr. Suleminian. Defendants’ position, at its core, is that a continuance is necessary because they will suffer significant prejudice in their ability to prepare and present their case at trial due to Plaintiffs’ conduct.The full scope of Defendants’ complaints with Plaintiffs’ conduct is not entirely clear, but Defendant’s position that a continuance is necessary appears to have several separate bases. First, Plaintiff’s designation of several non-retained experts and subsequent disclosure of reports by Dr. Wellisch shortly before trial (Motion to Continue, 13-14, 17-18.) Second, that “Plaintiffs are attempting to recover the collective worth of all psychological damages yet to be proven, or even alleged, in their other cases against Defendants.” (Motion to Continue p. 5). Third, that Defendants “recently discovered that Plaintiffs filed a separate action for damages against their landlord” alleging identical or similar harms. Fourth, that Plaintiffs used a “bait and switch” ploy by orally agreeing to waive the discovery cut-off, to then later assert during the first of Defendants’ depositions that they never expressly agreed to waive the cut-off for all depositions.OPPOSITIONPlaintiffs filed their opposition on August 14, 2024—two days prior to the hearing on this motion. Plaintiffs generally deny Defendants’ characterizations of their conduct and the necessity of a longer continuance and reopening of discovery. However, Plaintiffs are amiable to a short continuance of the trial to sometime after September 9, 2024, for Defense counsel to recover from a hand injury.REPLYNo reply was filed in this matter. ANALYSISAlthough continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits.¿ (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).)¿ The Court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.¿ (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).) The Court may look to the following factors in determining whether a trial continuance is warranted: (1) proximity of the trial date; (2) whether there was any previous continuance of trial due to any party; (3) the length of the continuance requested; (4) the availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion; (5) the prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; and (6) whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial.¿ (See generally CRC Rule 3.1332(d)(1)-(11).)¿ Additional factors for the Court to consider include: a party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts; whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance; and any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.¿ (CRC Rule 3.1332(c), (d).)  The decision whether to grant a continuance or extend discovery must service an atmosphere of substantial justice, as “public policy favoring disposition on the merits outweighs the competing policy favoring judicial efficiency.” (Bahl v. Bank of America (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 389, 398-399.) I. Motion to Continue and Reopen DiscoveryThis case involves the breakdown of effective communication between parties in facilitating discovery following years of litigation across several actions by the same parties and their counsel. It is clear in this instance that a limited continuance and reopening of discovery will best serve the interests of justice in order to allow Defendants to depose Dr. David K. Wellisch (Dr. Wellisch) and arrange an independent mental examination of Mr. Suleminian.  Doing so allows Defendants to complete discovery and gather important testimony regarding Mr. Suleminian’s emotional and mental health, which is an issue pertinent to this case.RULING Thus, Motion to Continue the Trial and to Reopen Discovery is GRANTED. The Court requests that the Parties meet and confer regarding their availability for a new trial date in June or July 2025.