  Case Number:  20STCV03391    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  T Motion to BifurcateMoving Party: Defendant G+ Gulla Jonsdottir Design LLC Responding Party: Plaintiff Jamie Lynn Cano Tentative Ruling: DenyBACKGROUNDThis case arises from a trip and fall incident which occurred on May 19, 2019, where Plaintiff Jamie Lynn Cano (“Plaintiff”) returned from an outing to her room at the Mayfair Hotel and allegedly tripped on a step inside her room and hit her head on the air conditioning unit (“AC Unit”). Plaintiff alleges the carpeting in the hotel room was visually confusing making her unable to identify the step.G+ Gulla Jonsdottir Design LLC (“Defendant”) worked on a remodeling project for the Hotel as the replacement interior designer providing suggestions final adjustments, but denies any responsibility for Plaintiff’s injuries and asserts the carpeting was not visually confusing in any way. MOVING PARTY POSITIONDefendant moves to bifurcate the trial due to disputed liability with respect to Plaintiff’s injuries to facilitate efficient adjudication and avoid undue prejudice to Defendant’s right to a fair trial. Specifically, Defendant asserts the damages portion of this trial will be complex and consider entirely distinct issues from the liability phase of the trial because it will involve testimony from many experts and physicians. OPPOSITIONPlaintiff argues Defendant’s motion should be denied because Defendant fails to show a likelihood of prevailing at trial. Second, Plaintiff argues bifurcation would prevent or inhibit their ability to establish liability. Third, Plaintiff argues that Defendant fails to show any special features of circumstances relating to this trial which would justify bifurcation. Lastly, Plaintiff argues the motion to bifurcate should be denied because bifurcation would both be a waste on the judicial economy and would fail to promote settlement.REPLYIn reply, Defendant asserts they have no obligation to establish a likelihood of prevailing in the first phase of a bifurcated trial in order to prevail on its motion. Defendant argues Plaintiff’s Opposition fails to establish that the issues of liability and damages are “so intertwined that bifurcation would be improper”. Defendant further asserts that bifurcation would promote the judicial economy by increasing efficiency and promoting settlement. Lastly, Defendant asserts they will be prejudiced if the Court does not grant its motion and bifurcate the trial.ANALYSISCalifornia Code of Civil Procedure section 1048(b) provides that “[t]he court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a separate trial of any cause of action . . . of any separate issue or any number of causes of action or issues. . .” The Court also has the power to “provide for the orderly conduct of proceedings before it,” and to “amend and control its processes and orders so as to make them conform to law and justice.” (Civ. Proc. Code § 128(a)(3), (8).) Intrinsic to the Court’s power to regulate the order of trial is its power to bifurcate at any point during proceedings, including even during the trial itself. (See McLellan v. McLellan (1972) 23 Cal.App.3d 343, 353.) Under the Code of Civil Procedure section 1048(b), the court can bifurcate trial to address specific issues “to avoid prejudice.” I. Motion to Bifurcate.Defendant’s motion to bifurcate fails due to the lack of supporting evidence or declaration. Defendant has not provided a sufficient factual basis to justify its arguments for bifurcating in this instance, but instead proffer conclusory statements regarding the length of different portions of the trial, the number of witnesses anticipated to testify in each portion, and the extent of prejudice Defendant will suffer from the damages portion of the trial, which Defendant speculates will be emotional and cause sympathies that disadvantage them. However, in their motion, Defendant fails to provide evidence to support their estimates for the amount of time required to address the issues of liability and damages. Moreover, Defendant’s reply states that the “evidence of Plaintiff’s claimed damages… requires the testimony and evidence from more than two dozen witnesses” whereas the liability portion of the trial will require approximately ten (Reply p. 6.)  Yet, Defendant fails to corroborate these claims with supporting declaration or evidentiary exhibits. Due to Defendant's lack of evidentiary substantiation of their arguments, the Court finds their motion to bifurcate insufficient.RULINGThis Motion to Bifurcate is DENIED.