 Case Number:  22STCV11929    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  T Motion for Summary JudgementMoving Party: City of Los Angeles (Defendant); Los Angeles Department of Water and Power (Defendant) Responding Party: Armenuhi Aharonyan (Plaintiff)Tentative Ruling: The motion for summary judgment is DENIED.   The Motion for Summary Adjudication is GRANTED as to Plaintiff’s Third Cause of Action for Negligence.BACKGROUND This is a trip and fall case where Armenuhi Aharonyan (“Plaintiff”) alleges she tripped and fell over a section of sidewalk where a Los Angeles Department of Water and Power (LADWP) concrete cover is installed. Plaintiff brought this case against both the City of Los Angeles and LADWP (collectively “Defendants”).Plaintiff filed her government claim form on September 15, 2021 and February 9, 2022. On April 7, 2022, Plaintiff filed her complaint alleging three (3) causes of action for Dangerous Condition of Public Property against the City of Los Angeles (“the City”), for Dangerous Condition of Public Property against LADWP, and for Negligence.MOVING PARTY POSITION Defendants argue they are entitled to summary judgment on four separate issues. First, that Plaintiff’s first two causes of action for dangerous condition fails because the alleged elevated sidewalk defect is trivial as a matter of law. Second, that the uneven sidewalk is open and obvious and a reasonably prudent person should have seen the condition and avoided it. Third, Defendants argue they did not have actual or constructive notice of the alleged defect sufficiently before Plaintiff’s fall to have time to remedy the alleged defect. Finally, Defendants argue Plaintiff’s Third Cause of Action for Negligence fails to allege any statutory basis because public entities can only be held liable based on statutory grounds. Plaintiff has not alleged and cannot allege any statutory basis for alleging negligence because it is a common law tort.OPPOSITION Plaintiff opposes the motion for summary judgment, arguing that the issue of whether the dangerous condition was substantial or trivial is a disputed issue of material fact, and that there are triable issues as to whether Defendants had actual or constructive notice about the condition prior to Plaintiff’s incident, if the defect was open and obvious, and if Defendants created the dangerous condition. Plaintiff also asserts that whether her third cause of action for negligence is based on common law or governmental tort liability is itself also an issue of material fact.REPLY Defendants did not file a reply to Plaintiff’s opposition. ANALYSIS I. Evidentiary Objections Plaintiff submits 6 evidentiary objections in total.  Overruled: Nos. 1-6  Defendant makes no evidentiary objections.   II. Motion for Summary Judgment Summary judgment is proper “if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  The moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment must show either (1) that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be established or (2) that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant may discharge this burden by furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required facts or (2) discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to establish an essential element of the plaintiff's case.  [A] defendant may simply show the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action “by showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.” (Id. at p. 854.)  A defendant may show the plaintiff does not possess evidence to support an element of the cause of action by means of presenting the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses from which an absence of evidence may be reasonably inferred. (Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Construction Co. (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 64, 83.) Thus, a moving defendant has two means by which to shift the burden of proof under the summary judgment statute: “The defendant may rely upon factually insufficient discovery responses by the plaintiff to show that the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action sued upon. [Citation.] [Or a]lternatively, the defendant may… [disprove] an essential element of the plaintiff's cause of action.” (Brantly v. Pisaro (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1591, 1598.)  (Leyva v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1095, 1103.) After a defendant discharges the burden as to a particular cause of action, the plaintiff may defeat the motion by producing evidence showing that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p)(2).)  On a motion for summary judgment, the moving party's supporting documents are strictly construed and those of his opponent liberally construed, and doubts as to the propriety of summary judgment should be resolved against granting the motion.  (D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.) With respect to negligence a “plaintiff must show that defendants owed [him or] her a legal duty, that they breached the duty, and that the breach was a proximate or legal cause of [his or] her injuries.” (Ericson v. Fed. Express Corp. (2008) 162 Cal. App. 4th 1291, 1299–300.) A. Alleged Defect as Trivial as a Matter of Law“[P]ersons who maintain walkways, whether public or private, are not required to maintain them in an absolutely perfect condition.” (Ursino v. Big Boy Restaurants (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 394, 398.) As a result of the difficulty of maintaining heavily traveled surfaces in perfect condition, “minor defects inevitably occur” in construction and maintenance; because the continued existence of these minor defects is not unreasonable, no liability may result from them regardless of the notice of their existence. (Barrett v. City of Claremont (1953) 41 Cal.2d 70, 73.) The “trivial defect doctrine,” shields public entities from liability for defects that a court deems trivial as a matter of law. (Huckey v. City of Temecula (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 1092, 1104.) A slight depression in a walkway is a trivial defect as a matter of law unless the Plaintiff can show significant “aggravating circumstances attending the defect.” (Fielder v. City of Glendale (1977) 71 Cal.App.3d 719, 729.) When the height differential caused by the depression is plainly visible and avoidable to a pedestrian exercising “due care” when they fell, the defect is trivial. (Huckey v. City of Temecula (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 1092, 1109.)i. Defendants Meet Their Initial Burden Defendants make a prima facie showing that there is no triable issue of material fact that the alleged defect is trivial as a matter of law.  While no court has fixed an arbitrary number of inches below which a defect is trivial as a matter of law and above which it is a question of fact whether a defect is dangerous, court decisions have established some circumstances that, absent additional evidence, render a difference in elevation of a sidewalk a trivial defect. For instance, in cases where the alleged defect is unobstructed and a plaintiff tripped over it in broad daylight, courts have held the city not liable. (Beck v. City of Palo Alto (1957) 150 Cal.App.2d 39, 43–44) (see also Ness v. City of San Diego (1956) 144 Cal.App.2d 668; Whiting v. National City (1937) 9 Cal.2d 163; Dunn v. Wagner (1937) 22 Cal.App.2d 51; Nicholson v. City of Los Angeles (1936) 5 Cal.2d 361; Barrett v. City of Claremont (1953) 41 Cal.2d 70.) Here, Defendants put forward that the height discrepancy in the sidewalk—as measured by Plaintiff—was between 0.875-1.0625 inch, that Plaintiff tripped in broad daylight, and that photographs of the incident show the alleged defect to be unobstructed. (Motion for Summary Judgement p. 16.) The court finds these facts sufficiently make out a prima facie showing that the alleged defect is trivial as a matter of law. The burden thus shifts to Plaintiff to show that a triable issue of material fact exists with respect to this issue.ii. Plaintiff Successfully Raised a Triable Issue of Material FactPlaintiff argues there is a triable issue as to whether the alleged defect is trivial. To support the existence of a triable issue, Plaintiff relies on testimony that the size of the defect is larger than one inch, that grass, leaves, dirt, and debris made it impossible to discern colors between the sidewalk and other features, and that a tree scene shaded the condition. (Opposition p. 19.) In Huckey, supra, the Court outlined other factors bearing on whether the defect presented a substantial risk. Such additional factors include whether there were any broken pieces or jagged edges in the area of the defect, whether any dirt, debris or other material obscured a pedestrian’s view of the defect, the plaintiff’s knowledge of the area, whether the accident occurred at night or in an unlighted area, the weather at the time of the accident and whether the defect has caused any other accident.  Id. at 1105.  The Huckey factors are to be weighed on balance and no one factor is necessary or sufficient, nor are the factors an exclusive list.  Id. Here, Plaintiff argues and the Court agrees there are a triable issues of material fact as to whether the alleged defect is trivial. There are triable issues as to the size of the defect, over whether grass, leaves, dirt, and debris made it impossible to discern colors between the sidewalk and other features, and that a tree scene shaded the condition. (Opposition p. 19.)B. Defect as Open and Obvious“Where the condition of danger is obvious, there is no duty to specially guard or warn against it. Hence, an injury to the user of the premises from an obvious characteristic produces no liability against the possessor of land.” (See Beauchamp v. Los Gatos Golf Course (1969) 273 Cal.App.2d 20, 31.) When a danger is so obvious that a person can reasonably be expected to see it, then the condition itself is a warning, thus freeing the landowner from further duty unless harm is foreseeable despite the obvious nature of the danger. (See Danieley v. Goldmine Ski Assoc., Inc. (1990) 218 Cal.App.3d 111, 122, emphasis omitted, internal citation and quotation omitted.) While the issue of whether a danger is open and obvious is ordinarily a question of fact, it may be resolved as a matter of law if “reasonable minds can come to but one conclusion.” Peterson v. San Francisco Community College Dist. (1984) 36 Cal.3d 799, 810i. Defendants Fail to Make Prima Facie Showing Defendants here fail to make a prima facie showing that there is no triable issue of material fact that the alleged defect was open and obvious. Here, Defendants put forward several undisputed facts to argue that the pedestrian sidewalk was open and obvious to the public. Namely, that Plaintiff’s vision was not obstructed while she walked on the sidewalk when the incident occurred (Undisputed Material Facts (UMF) #11), that there were no shadows obscuring the view of the sidewalk at the time (UMF #12) and that no lighting issues affected Plaintiff’s ability to see the sidewalk while she walked. (UMF #13.) Defendant moreover argues Plaintiff fails to put forward evidence of any obstructions or other circumstances that inhibited her view of the sidewalk—and thus the alleged defect was open and obvious. While Defendants’ put forward a colorable argument that the alleged defect in the sidewalk was open and obvious, the evidence Defendants provide do not show that the 0.875-1.0625 inch height discrepancy in the sidewalk is so obvious that a person can reasonably be expected to see it while walking. Rather, Defendants’ evidence only shows that Plaintiff could have spotted the alleged defect at the time of the incident—not that reasonable minds can only reach the same conclusion that an approximately one inch vertical gap is open and obvious. Because Defendants fail to make prima facie showing that there is no triable issue regarding whether the alleged hazard is open and obvious, the Court need not address Plaintiff’s arguments on the issue.C. Whether Defendants Created the Hazard or Had Actual or Constructive Notice Under Government Code §835, public entities can be made liable when an injury is caused by a dangerous condition of its property. (Govt. Code §835.) A public entity is liable if it “either creates a dangerous condition on its property or fails to remedy a dangerous condition when it has actual notice of the condition and had sufficient time to take preventative measures before the injury.” (Ceja v. Dept. of Trans. (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 1475, 1481, citing Cornette v. Dept of Trans. (2001) 26 Cal.4th.63, 66.) When there is no evidence a public entity created a dangerous condition, the plaintiff generally bears the burden to prove the public entity had actual or constructive notice of it as well as sufficient time prior to the injury during which it could have acted to protect against the dangerous condition. (Govt. Code §835; Metcalf v. County of San Joaquin (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1121, 1131.)i. Defendants Meet Their Initial BurdenDefendants make a prima facie showing that there is no triable issue of material fact that Defendants lacked constructive or actual notice of the alleged defect. Here, Defendants point to the lack of any actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition, or alternatively that Defendants created the alleged dangerous condition. Defendants emphasize that Plaintiff’s claim is the only complaint Defendants have received about the sidewalk with respect to trip and fall injuries. (UMF #17.)  By doing so, Defendants make a prima facie showing that Plaintiff has not shown a triable issue of material fact exists with respect to whether Defendants created the alleged dangerous condition or that Defendants received notice of the condition with sufficient time to take corrective action. ii. Plaintiff Successfully Raises a Triable Issue of Material Fact Plaintiff raises a triable issue of material fact with respect to this issue.  It appears undisputed that Defendants were responsible for inspecting and maintaining the subject area.  Plaintiff also presented evidence that the defect may have existed as far back as March 2015 and that work had been done between May 2019 and January 2021.  Further, to the extent that Defendants relied on the fact that the alleged defect was never noted in any inspections, Plaintiff raises triable issues as to whether those inspections were adequately recorded. In addition, Plaintiff cites the declaration of Trevor Jones who testified that he had seen others who fell or stumbled in the same location.  In addition to further raising a triable issue as to whether the defect is trivial, this testimony and the other facts discussed above raise a triable issue as to whether the defect existed long enough to be discovered upon reasonable inspection.  D. Plaintiff’s Third Cause of Action for Negligence as Lacking Statutory BasisUnder Government Code §815, a public entity is not liable for an injury—whether it arises from act or omission of the public entity, public employee, or any other person—except as provided by statute. Plaintiffs thus cannot rely on common law negligence claims against public entities but must instead allege statutory bases for negligence liability. (See, Gibson v. City of Pasadena (1978) 83 Cal.App.3d 651, 655; Searcy v. Hemet Unified School District (1986) 177 Cal.App.3d 792, 802) (see also Tolan v. State of California (1979) 100 Cal.App.3d 980, 986) (articulating legislative intent to abolish common law liability against public entities.)i. Defendants Meet Their Initial BurdenDefendants make a prima facie showing that Plaintiff did not allege a valid basis for liability for negligence in her third cause of action against Defendants. Namely, Defendants rely on Plaintiff’s complaint, which pleads “prima facie elements for common law negligence in the form of duty, breach, causation and damages” (Motion for Summary Judgement p. 22) as well as the mere fact that Defendants are public entities to show that Plaintiff must allege a statutory basis for negligence liability. ii. Plaintiff Fails to Provide a Sufficient Basis for LiabilityPlaintiff does not address or discuss Defendants’ argument that the third cause of action for negligence.  As a result, Plaintiff does not meet her burden to show a triable issue exists on the matter. The Court therefore finds that Plaintiff’s third cause of action for negligence fails as a matter of law. The Court thus grants Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication with respect to Plaintiff’s third cause of action for negligence. RULING In light of the foregoing, Defendants’ motion for summary judgment is DENIED.  Defendants’ Motion for Summary Adjudication is GRANTED as to Plaintiff’s Third Cause of Action for Negligence.