  Case Number:  20STCV11599    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2025    Dept:  T Samuel
Torres Chavez vs Anza Owners, LLC, et al.  
Motion
to Bifurcate the Trial  
Moving Party:                         Plaintiffs
Moises Lopez, Walter Lopez, and Beatriz Marin Sanchez
Responding Party:                   Defendants
Anza Owner LLC and Coastline Real Estate Advisors, Inc. 
Tentative Ruling:                    Grant

 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a consolidated action involving two cases based on injuries from
an alleged gas explosion at a construction site. 
 
On March 30, 2020, Plaintiffs
Moises Lopez, Walter Lopez, and Beatriz Marin Sanchez (“Plaintiffs”) filed a
complaint for negligence under Labor Code section 3706 et seq., general
negligence, premises liability, and loss of consortium. Plaintiffs allege that
Moises Lopez and Walter Lopez were hired to do remodeling construction work at
the subject premises owned by Anza Owner, LLC when they were injured from a gas
explosion on April 8, 2018. (Complaint ¶ 23.) 
 
Plaintiffs allege they were hired by co-defendant
Fernando Garcia, doing business as Mathis
Construction,
who subcontracted to work on the project and was unlicensed. (Complaint ¶ 6.)
 
Plaintiffs now move to bifurcate the trial to litigate
the issues of employer/employee status, lack of workers’ compensation coverage
and the resulting applications of law pursuant to Labor Code sections 2750.5,
3706 and 3708. 
 
Defendants Anza Owner LLC and Coastline Real Estate
Advisors, Inc. (“Defendants”) oppose, and Plaintiffs reply. 
 
MOVING PARTY POSITION
 
Plaintiffs argue the trial should
be bifurcated because they were statutory employees under Labor Code section
2750.5, and therefore, Labor Code section 3706 will allow Plaintiffs to
continue this action if it is shown that the defendants did not provide
workers’ compensation coverage. Furthermore, Plaintiffs argue defendants in
this case must meet a different burden under Labor Code section 3708. Because
this burden does not apply to Plaintiff Samuel Torres Chavez (“Chavez”) in the
other consolidated case, and Chavez has not alleged he was a statutory
employee, the issue of employment status and workers’ compensation coverage
should be tried separately. Plaintiffs contend the relevant facts on this issue
will be undisputed and can be decided as questions of law. (Motion, at p. 9.) 
 
Plaintiffs contend that not
bifurcating the issue will confuse the jury, given the different burden under
section 3708.  
 
Plaintiffs propose
bifurcating this issue into two phases: (1) deciding employee status and
workers’ compensation coverage; and (2) proceeding to a jury to decide remaining
issues of fact such as if defendants have overcome the section 3708 presumption
of negligence.  
 
OPPOSITION
            
Defendants argue Plaintiffs’ motion fails to show that bifurcation would
lead to economy and efficiency, promote the convenience of witnesses, and avoid
delay or prejudice. 
 
Defendants also assert that Moises Lopez caused the incident in this
case. 
 
REPLY
 
Plaintiffs again assert that the trial must be bifurcated for the Court
to make findings of law and argue they will be prejudiced if the motion is
denied.  
 
ANALYSIS
I.                  
Legal
Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 1048
provides, “The court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when
separate trials will be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a
separate trial . . . of any separate issue or of any number of causes of action
or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury required by the Constitution
or a statute of this state or of the United States.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048,
subd. (b).)
 “The court may, when the convenience of
witnesses, the ends of justice, or the economy and efficiency of handling the
litigation would be promoted thereby, on motion of a party, after notice and
hearing, make an order . . . that the trial of any issue or any part thereof
shall precede the trial of any other issue or any part thereof in the case.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 598.) “The authority of the court to bifurcate a trial of
the issues in a case is conferred and limited by the provisions of” section 598.
(Cohn v. Bugas (1974) 42 Cal.App.3d 381, 386.)
II.        Discussion
Labor Code section 2750.5 provides
“[t]here is a rebuttable presumption affecting the burden of proof that a
worker performing services for which a license is required . . . or who is
performing such services for a person who is required to obtain such a license
is an employee rather than an independent contractor.”¿Additionally, “any
person performing any function or activity for which a license is required
pursuant to Chapter 9 [commencing with Section 7000] of Division 3 of the
Business and Professions Code shall hold a valid contractors’ license as a
condition of having independent contractor status.” (Lab. Code, § 2750.5, subd
(c).)  
“The
language of section 2750.5 could not be clearer. The plain meaning of the
penultimate paragraph of section 2750.5 conditions a finding of independent
contractor status as to a person performing services for which a contractor's
license is required upon possession by that person of a valid license. By
stating that a license is a condition of the status, the Legislature has
unequivocally stated that the person lacking the requisite license may not be
an independent contractor. Thus, if one performs work on a construction job for
which a license is required, without holding a valid license, one is by
definition an employee, not an independent contractor, pursuant to section
2750.5.”¿
(Neighbours
v. Buzz Oates Enterprises (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 325, 330 [internal
citations and quotations omitted].) 
Further, “[u]nder the plain meaning
of section 2750.5, any unlicensed subcontractor is the employee of the general
contractor; consequently, as a matter of law, the employee of an unlicensed
subcontractor is the employee of the principal contractor.” (Neighbours,
supra, 217 Cal.App.3d at 330.) “Since the employee of an unlicensed
contractor is the employee of the principal contractor as a matter of law,
workers' compensation is, with limited exceptions, this employee's
exclusive remedy against the principal contractor when the employee is injured
on the job.” (Id. [emphasis added].)
Here, Plaintiffs allege, and argue
that Garcia, who was doing business as Mathis Construction, hired them to work
on the project, and was unlicensed. (Complaint ¶ 6.) Plaintiffs also show they
have specifically alleged negligence under Labor Code sections 3706 et seq. (Complaint
¶ 33, 42-43.) Labor Code section 3706 states: “If any employer fails to secure
the payment of compensation, any injured employee or his dependents may bring
an action at law against such employer for damages, as if this division did not
apply.” (Lab. Code, § 3706.) 
Section 3708
states in relevant part: 
“In such
action it is presumed that the injury to the employee was a direct result and
grew out of the negligence of the employer, and the burden of proof is upon the
employer, to rebut the presumption of negligence. It is not a defense to the
employer that the employee was guilty of contributory negligence, or assumed
the risk of the hazard complained of, or that the injury was caused by the
negligence of a fellow servant. No contract or regulation shall restore to the
employer any of the foregoing defenses.”
(Lab. Code,
§ 3708.) 
Given the allegations in this case,
the Court concludes that the trial should be bifurcated on the limited issue of
determining whether Plaintiffs are statutory employees under Labor Code section
2750.5, and if so, whether the workers’ compensation exclusivity applies. Doing
so would promote efficiency since these issues could preclude the necessity for
a trial on the remaining issues in this case. As a result, contrary to
Defendants’ assertions in opposition, it does not appear a bifurcation would
inconvenience witnesses, create unnecessary costs, or prejudice the parties,
since the inquiry would be limited; neither would this likely extend the trial
for several days or weeks. 
Therefore, the motion to bifurcate
is granted.           
RULING
            Plaintiffs Moises
Lopez, Walter Lopez, and Beatriz Marin Sanchez’s motion to Bifurcate the Trial
is GRANTED. 