 Case Number:  21STCV37991    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2025    Dept:  T Zenya
Dennis vs Adam and Lilith
Motion
to Strike Portions of the Complaint
Moving Party:                         Defendant
Omead Lavassani (Doe 5)
Responding Party:                   None
Tentative Ruling:                    Grant
Without Leave to Amend
 
BACKGROUND
 
On October 14, 2021, Plaintiff Zenya Dennis (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Adam and Lilith and Does 1 to 50 for negligence and premises
liability. Plaintiff alleges that on October 16, 2019, she entered an Adam and
Lilith store and was stabbed by a store employee. Plaintiff claims exemplary
damages.
 
On September 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed an amendment to the complaint and
substituted Omead Lavassani as Doe 5. 
 
Defendant Omead
Lavassani (“Defendant”) now moves to strike the allegations related to the exemplary
damages claim. 
 
On January 2, 2025, Plaintiff filed a notice of
non-opposition to this motion.
 
MOVING PARTY POSITION
 
Defendant asks the Court to
strike the exemplary damages claim and various portions of the complaint.
Defendant argues the complaint fails to allege sufficient facts to warrant
punitive actions based on the acts of Defendant’s employee. 
 
OPPOSITION
            
Plaintiff does not oppose this motion. 
 
REPLY
 
            No reply has been filed.  
 
ANALYSIS
I.                  
Legal
Standard
A.        Motion
to Strike
California
law authorizes a party’s motion to strike matter from an opposing party’s
pleading if it is irrelevant, false, or improper.  (Code Civ. Proc. §§
435; 436(a).)  Motions may also target pleadings or parts of pleadings
which are not filed or drawn in conformity with applicable laws, rules or
orders.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(b).)  A motion to strike is used to
address defects that appear on the face of a pleading or from judicially
noticed matter but that are not grounds for a demurrer.  (Pierson v Sharp
Memorial Hospital (1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 340, 342; see also City &
County of San Francisco v Strahlendorf (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1911, 1913
(motion may not be based on a party's declaration or factual representations
made by counsel in the motion papers).)  In particular, a motion to strike
can be used to attack the entire pleading or any part thereof – in other words,
a motion may target single words or phrases, unlike demurrers.  (Warren
v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Railway Co. (1971) 19 Cal.App.3d 24,
40.)  The Code of Civil Procedure also authorizes the Court to act on its
own initiative to strike matters, empowering the Court to enter orders striking
matter “at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper.” 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 436.) 
B.        Striking Punitive Damages
Punitive
damages may be imposed where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)  “Malice” is conduct intended by the defendant
to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on with
a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others. 
(Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).)  “‘Punitive damages are proper only
when the tortious conduct rises to levels of extreme indifference to the
plaintiff’s rights, a level which decent citizens should not have to
tolerate.’  [Citation.]”  (Lackner v. North (2006) 135
Cal.App.4th 1188, 1210.)    
“As
amended to include [despicable], the [Civil Code section 3294] plainly
indicates that absent an intent to injure the plaintiff, ‘malice’ requires more
than a ‘willful and conscious’ disregard of the plaintiffs’ interests. 
The additional component of ‘despicable conduct’ must be found.”  (College
Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.) (emphasis
added.)  The statute’s reference to despicable conduct represents a “new
substantive limitation on punitive damage awards.”  (Ibid.) 
Despicable conduct is “conduct which is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable,
wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by
ordinary decent people.  Such conduct has been described as ‘having the
character of outrage frequently associated with crime.’”  (Tomaselli v.
Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1287.)  Further,
“[t]here must be evidence that defendant acted with knowledge of the probable
dangerous consequences to plaintiff’s interests and deliberately failed to avoid
these consequences.”  (Flyer’s Body Shop Profit Sharing Plan v. Ticor
Title Ins. Co. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 1149, 1155.) 
A motion to strike
punitive damages is properly granted where a plaintiff does not state a prima
facie claim for punitive damages, including allegations that defendant is
guilty of oppression, fraud or malice.  (Turman v. Turning Point of
Cent. California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.)  “Mere
negligence, even gross negligence, is not sufficient to justify such an award”
for punitive damages.  (Kendall Yacht Corp. v. United California Bank
(1975) 50 Cal.App.3d 949, 958.) Moreover, conclusory allegations are not
sufficient to support a claim for punitive damages.  (Brousseau v.
Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.) Lastly, “[t]he mere allegation an intentional tort was committed
is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages.  Not only must
there be circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be
alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.” (Grieves v. Superior Court
(1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166.) 
 
            C.        Punitive Damages from an Employer
 
When seeking damages from an employer, an employer is not
liable for punitive damages arising from an employee’s actions pursuant to
Civil Code section 3294(a) unless the employer had advance knowledge of the
unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of
the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct
for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (b).) With respect to a corporate
employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization,
ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an
officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation. (Ibid.)
 
II.        Meet and
Confer
According to the declaration of Kari
A. Keidser, Defendant’s counsel sent an email inviting Plaintiff to meet and
confer on this motion but received no response. (Keidser Decl. ¶ 8-9.) 
III.       Discussion
            Here, the exemplary
damages attachment to the complaint alleges that Defendants Adam & Lilith
and Does 1 to 50, 
“failed to
train their employees how to handle altercations with a customer at the SUBJECT
PREMISES. When said Defendants knew, or in the exercise of reasonable care
should have known, that as a retail store there will be situations that pose
risk of harm to customers on the premises; failed to warn Plaintiff Zenya
Dennis, of the danger presented by the presence of the disagreements she would
have with a vicious employee; failed to properly supervise, retrain, and hire
employees who could adequately perform essential job duties including
monitoring for disputes and how to handle them in a proper manner without the
use of a deadly weapon (i.e. a knife); and failed to otherwise exercise due
care with respect to the matters alleged in this complaint.” 
            (Complaint,
at p. 6.)
            The
complaint fails to state sufficient facts to warrant punitive damages because
it does not state facts that Defendant had advance
knowledge of the unfitness of the employee who attacked Plaintiff and employed
him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or
authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct. 
Therefore, due to the foregoing, the
motion to strike is granted. 
RULING
            Defendant Omead Lavassani’s Motion
to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. The
exemplary damages claim as to Omead Lavassani is stricken. 