 On April 2, 2024, Plaintiff Patricia Ferrara filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendant Financial Partners Credit Union alleging eight causes of action pursuant to the FEHA, one claim for whistleblower retaliation, and one claim for wrongful termination.Defendant now demurs to every cause of action in the FAC for uncertainty and failure to state sufficient facts.  When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context, and “treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  It is error “to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if the plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any defect identified by the defendant can be cured by amendment.”  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.¿(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)Discrimination To analyze claims of discrimination under the FEHA based on a theory of disparate treatment, courts employ a three-step, burden-shifting test.  (Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 354-355 (“Guz”).)  Because evidence of intentional discrimination is rare, the law permits the inference of discrimination based on facts that create “a reasonable likelihood of bias and are not satisfactorily explained.”  (Id. at p. 354.)  The tiered approach assists the Court in identifying such facts.  The approach proceeds as follows:  Once the plaintiff establishes a prima facie case of discrimination, a presumption of discrimination arises.  The burden then shifts to the employer to dispel the presumption by producing admissible evidence that its action was taken for a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason.  Finally, the burden shifts back to the plaintiff, who then has the opportunity to attack the employer’s proffered reason as pretext for discrimination, or to offer other evidence of discriminatory motive.  (Id. at pp. 355-356.)Under the FEHA, a prima facie case of discrimination generally consists of the following elements: (1) the plaintiff is a member of a protected class, (2) the plaintiff was qualified for the position he or she sought or was performing competently in the position he or she held, (3) the plaintiff suffered an adverse employment action, and (4) some other circumstance suggesting discriminatory motive.  (Guz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 355.)The FAC provides sufficient ultimate facts: Plaintiff suffered from a uterine bleeding disability; Defendants had animus against this disability; this might be shown via irregularities with providing accommodations; and this ultimately culminated in a termination.  This is a fairly typical pleading.  HarassmentTo establish a prima facie case of harassment under the FEHA, the plaintiff must show that (1) she was a member of a protected class, (2) she was subjected to unwelcome harassment based on her protected status, and (3) the harassment unreasonably interfered with her work performance by creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment.  (Thompson v. City of Monrovia (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 860, 876.)  “ ‘Harassment cannot be occasional, isolated, sporadic, or trivial; rather the plaintiff must show a concerted pattern of harassment of a repeated, routine or a generalized nature.’ ”  (Aguilar v. Avis Rent A Car System, Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 121, 131.)  In other words, the harassment must be “sufficiently severe or pervasive to alter the condition of the victim’s employment and create an abusive environment,” as judged by the reasonable person belonging to the plaintiff’s protected class.  (Thompson, at p. 877.) Here, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant typically precluded Plaintiff, a gay woman, from talking about her romantic life but allowed heterosexuals to do so.  This might be sufficient.  Further facts can be obtained in discovery.RetaliationCourts employ the same burden-shifting approach to analyze claims of retaliation under the FEHA.  (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1042 (Yanowitz).)  Thus, the plaintiff has the initial burden to establish a prima facie case by showing (1) he or she engaged in protected activity, (2) the employer subjected the employee to an adverse employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between the protected activity and the employer’s action.  (Ibid.)  Once the employee establishes the prima facie case, the burden shifts to the employer, who must present a legitimate, nonretaliatory reason for the adverse employment action.  (Ibid.)  If the employer carries this burden, the court no longer presumes retaliation, and the burden shifts back to the employee to prove intentional retaliation.  (Ibid.)The FEHA retaliation claim is sufficient to the extent it is alleged that Plaintiff was terminated because she requested leave time.  As alleged, a causal link may be seen due to temporal proximity.  (FAC ¶  22.)Next, Lab. Code § 1102.5 retaliation requires that (1) the plaintiff establish a prima facie case of retaliation, (2) the defendant provide a legitimate, nonretaliatory explanation for its acts, and (3) the plaintiff show this explanation is merely a pretext for the retaliation.  (Patten v. Grant Joint Union High Sch. Dist. (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 1378, 1384.)  For a prima facie case of retaliation, “plaintiff must show he engaged in protected activity, his employer subjected him to an adverse employment action, and there is a causal link between the two.”  (Hager v. Cnty. of Los Angeles (2014) 228 Cal. App. 4th 1538, 1540.)Lab. Code § 1102.6 provides, “In a civil action or administrative proceeding brought pursuant to Section 1102.5, once it has been demonstrated by a preponderance of the evidence that an activity proscribed by Section 1102.5 was a contributing factor in the alleged prohibited action against the employee, the employer shall have the burden of proof to demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence that the alleged action would have occurred for legitimate, independent reasons even if the employee had not engaged in activities protected by Section 1102.5.” Here, it is alleged that Plaintiff was terminated for reporting harassment and other wrongful conduct; however, facts indicating causation are not apparent.  The allegations as to temporal proximity seem to relate to dates of requesting accommodations, not lodging complaints.  At the very least, the FAC is uncertain and not specific on this point.  Thus, the Demurrer is sustained as to the whistleblower claim, with 20 days leave to amend.Failure to Prevent Misconduct & Wrongful Termination Given the ruling above, the Demurrer is overruled as the derivative claims for wrongful termination and failure to prevent misconduct.Accommodation & Interactive ProcessThe elements of a reasonable accommodation cause of action are (1) the employee suffered a disability, (2) the employee could perform the essential functions of the job with reasonable accommodation, and (3) the employer failed to reasonably accommodate the employee's disability.  (Nealy v. City of Santa Monica (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 359, 373.)  “The ‘interactive process' required by the FEHA is an informal process with the employee or the employee's representative, to attempt to identify a reasonable accommodation that will enable the employee to perform the job effectively. [Citation.] Ritualized discussions are not necessarily required.”  (Scotch v. Art Inst. of California (2009) 173 Cal. App. 4th 986, 1013.)These claims are sufficient to the extent Plaintiff alleges that working from home was a reasonable accommodation; she received backlash for working from home; and ultimately she was wrongfully denied a further opportunity to do so.  Further facts can be obtained in discovery.  Summary  In sum, the Demurrer is sustained only as to the eighth cause of action, with 20 days leave to amend.  The Demurrer is otherwise overruled.  Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 