  Case Number:  23TRCV01535    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka Tuesday, July 30, 2024
Department M Calendar No. 7  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Alfonzo
Sanchez Loya v. Ford Motor Company, et al.   
23TRCV01535
1.     
Alfonzo Sanchez
Loya’s Motion for Leave to File First Amended Complaint   
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING

Alfonzo Sanchez Loya’s Motion for Leave to File First
Amended Complaint is denied without prejudice. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint was filed on May 15, 2023. Plaintiff
alleges the following facts. Plaintiff alleges that his 2020 Ford Ranger suffers
from defects. Plaintiff sets forth causes of action under the Song-Beverly Act
as well as a cause of action for Negligent Repair. 
 
Motion for Leave to Amend 
 
The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on such
terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading.  Code Civ. Proc., §§ 473 & 576.  Judicial policy favors resolution of all
disputed matters between the parties and, therefore, leave to amend is
generally liberally granted.  Ordinarily,
the court will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in
ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer or motion to strike
are premature.  However, the court does
have discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed amendment fails to
state a valid cause of action as a matter of law and the defect cannot be cured
by further amendment.   Cal. Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior
Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281. 
 
The application for leave to amend should be made as
soon as the need to amend is discovered. 
The closer the trial date, the stronger the showing required for leave
to amend.  If the party seeking the
amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party,
the court has the discretion to deny leave to amend.  Hirsa
v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.  Prejudice exists where the amendment would
require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added
costs of preparation such as an increased burden of discovery.  Magpali
v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488. 
 
Plaintiff moves for leave to amend to file a First Amended
Complaint to add a cause of action for fraud and to state a claim for punitive
damages against Defendant Ford Motor Company.   
 
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324(a) states: “A motion
to amend a pleading before trial must:
(1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or
amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from
previous pleadings or amendments;
(2) State what allegations in the previous pleading
are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line
number, the deleted allegations are located; and
(3) State what allegations are proposed to be added to
the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number,
the additional allegations are located.” Id. (emphasis added).
 
Plaintiff appears to have complied with Rule
3.1324(a). Plaintiff set forth all the allegations that were added to the FAC
but does not specify any allegations that were omitted. (Motion, pages 3-4.)  Presumably, this means that no deletions from
the original Complaint were made.
 
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324(b) requires that the
moving party must submit a separate declaration specifying:
“(1) The effect of the amendment;
(2) Why the amendment is necessary and proper;
(3) When the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered; and
(4) The reasons why the request for amendment was not
made earlier.”
 
Plaintiff provided a declaration meeting element (1)
to (2) above. (Decl., Armando Lopez, ¶¶ 4-5.) However, there is nothing in the declaration
which states when the facts giving rise to the amendment were discovered and why
the request for amendment was not made earlier. Declarant simply states that
facts were discovered “during the course of litigation.” (Id. at ¶ 6.) 
 
Therefore, Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to File First
Amended Complaint is denied without prejudice. 
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling.