  Case Number:  BC691484    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  47 PARTIAL TENTATIVE RULING FOR PHASE  1 BENCH TRIAL   HEARING DATE:  February  6, 2024 CASE:                    Dorothy  Diller v. Barry Weiss, et al. CASE NO.:             BC691484   I.                     JURISDICTIONAL  AND TIMELINESS ISSUES   A.      Plaintiff’s  Right to Seek Declaratory Relief Code  of Civil Procedure § 1060 establishes the right to seek declaratory relief  interpreting a contract or other written instrument.  It provides: Any person interested under a  written instrument, excluding a will or a trust, or under a contract, or who  desires a declaration of his or her rights or duties with respect to another,  or in respect to, in, over or upon property, or with respect to the location of  the natural channel of a watercourse, may, in cases of actual controversy  relating to the legal rights and duties of the respective parties, bring an  original action or cross-complaint in the superior court for a declaration of  his or her rights and duties in the premises, including a determination of any  question of construction or validity arising under the instrument or contract.  He or she may ask for a declaration of rights or duties, either alone or with  other relief; and the court may make a binding declaration of these rights or  duties, whether or not further relief is or could be claimed at the time. The  declaration may be either affirmative or negative in form and effect, and the  declaration shall have the force of a final judgment. The declaration may be  had before there has been any breach of the obligation in respect to which said  declaration is sought. (Code.  Civ. Proc. § 1060.)   “’The  purpose of a declaratory judgment is to “serve some practical end in quieting  or stabilizing an uncertain or disputed jural relation.”’ [Citation.] ‘Another  purpose is to liquidate doubts with respect to uncertainties or controversies  which might otherwise result in subsequent litigation [citation].’ [Citation.]”  [Citation.] “’One test of the right to institute proceedings for declaratory  judgment is the necessity of present adjudication as a guide for plaintiff's  future conduct in order to preserve his legal rights.’”’ [Citation] “’[S]ection  1060 does not require a breach of contract in order to obtain declaratory  relief, only an “actual controversy.” Declaratory relief pursuant to this  section has frequently been used as a means of settling controversies between  parties to a contract regarding the nature of their contractual rights and  obligations.’ (Ibid.)”  (Osseous  Techs. of Am., Inc. v. DiscoveryOrtho Partners LLC (2010) 191 Cal. App. 4th  357, 364-365.) “The mere circumstance that another remedy is available is an  insufficient ground for refusing declaratory relief, and doubts regarding the  propriety of an action for declaratory relief ... generally are resolved in  favor of granting relief.” (Filarsky v. Superior Court (2002) 28 Cal.4th  419, 433.)             Here, the Court finds an active  controversy exists between the parties on each of Plaintiff’s declaratory  relief claims (1st, 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, and 9th causes of action), for the  reasons explained in her reply brief on pages 2-4.  There are vigorous disputes between the  parties about Defendants’ right to delay or control Plaintiff’s access to the  Partnership’s books and records (1st C/A) and Defendants’ authority to pay  management fees to Edmundo Rosenberg’s company (5th C/A), to secure loans (6th  C/A) and to amend the Partnership Agreement (8th C/A) without Plaintiff’s  written consent, as well as the validity of Defendant’s transfers of their  interests to their LLCs (7th and 9th C/A).   Thus, declaratory relief to construe the Partnership Agreement and  establish the rights and obligations of the parties is plainly proper. B.       Whether  Edmundo Rosenberg is Subject to Suit as a Defendant in this Case Defendant  Edmundo Rosenberg contends he cannot be sued for improper transfer of his  interests to SZD, LLC, arguing that his grandfather, Stanley Diller,  transferred his interest in the Partnership to SZD, LLC, in March 2011, and  Rosenberg simply inherited his grandfather’s interest in SZD, LLC, after  Diller’s death in January 2012.  (Ds’  Trial Brief, p. 7; Ds’ Compendium, Exh. 53.)   There are at least three factual issues that prevent adoption of this position  without trial.  First, Plaintiffs object  to the admission of Exhibit 53 without adequate authentication.  Second, under the operative Articles of  Partnership of Brookside Partners, Stanley Diller was generally restricted from  conveying his Partnership interest, without approval, unless it was transferred  to “(i) any other person who is a member of said party; (ii) to his or her  spouse; (iii) to one or more of his children or grandchildren subject to the  terms of this agreement, but not to any other person” or to a “General or  Limited Partnership or Corporation in which they or one of their original  members or partners own and maintain a controlling interest.”  (Ds’ Exh. 5, 1984 Article 7.02A, p. 037.)  According to the Assignment document, Stanley  Diller assigned and transferred his Partnership interest to himself as Trustee  of the Stanley Diller Living Trust, dated November 14, 1995, and then to SZD,  LLC.  (Ds’ Compendium, Exh. 53.) The  parties do not address whether this two-step transaction is permitted under the  Partnership Agreement.  Finally, the  issue of how Rosenberg acquired his interest is complicated by his sworn  declaration and that of Barry Weiss, both  filed 2/16/21 and stating that Rosenberg acquired his interest when Stanley  Diller died and bequeathed “his 20% partnership interest in Brookshire  Partners” to Rosenberg.  (Plaintiff’s  Reply, pp. 4-5.)  On this record, the  Court cannot determine, therefore, whether Plaintiff has a valid claim against  Rosenberg grounded on an invalid transfer of assets to the LLC, but it appears  there is a colorable argument that Rosenberg received his Partnership interest  directly from Stanley Diller, as his declaration states, and then effectuated  the transfer to the LLC.              Even so, several claims against  Rosenberg do not appear to rest on any illegal transfer of assets to his  LLC.  Specifically, Plaintiff seeks  declaratory relief and damages for breach of contract with regard to  Rosenberg’s receipt of management fees and his participation in securing  Partnership loans and amending the Partnership Agreement without Plaintiff’s  consent.    C.       Failure  to Name Indispensable Parties Defendants  urge the Court to dismiss this action pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 389  based on their Forty-First Affirmative Defense that Plaintiff has failed to join  necessary parties, to wit, the LLCs created by Defendants Weiss and Rosenberg,  the other LLCs that were created in 2008, and the Partnership itself.  For the reasons explained below, the Court  declines to dismiss this action on this basis. Code  of Civil Procedure section 389 states in relevant part: (a)  A person who is subject to service of process and whose joinder will not  deprive the court of jurisdiction over the subject matter of the action shall  be joined as a party in the action if (1) in his absence complete relief  cannot be accorded among those already parties or (2) he claims an  interest relating to the subject of the action and is so situated that the  disposition of the action in his absence may (i) as a practical matter impair  or impede his ability to protect that interest or (ii) leave any of the  persons already parties subject to a substantial risk of incurring double,  multiple, or otherwise inconsistent obligations by reason of his claimed  interest. If he has not been so joined, the court shall order that he be made a  party. (b)  If a person as described in paragraph (1) or (2) of subdivision (a) cannot  be made a party, the court shall determine whether in equity and good  conscience the action should proceed among the parties before it, or should be  dismissed without prejudice, the absent person being thus regarded as  indispensable. The factors to be considered by the court include: (1) to  what extent a judgment rendered in the person's absence might be prejudicial to  him or those already parties; (2) the extent to which, by protective provisions  in the judgment, by the shaping of relief, or other measures, the prejudice can  be lessened or avoided; (3) whether a judgment rendered in the person's absence  will be adequate; (4) whether the plaintiff or cross-complainant will have an  adequate remedy if the action is dismissed for nonjoinder.  (Code Civ.  Proc. § 389 [emphasis added].)   “Subdivision  (a) defines the ‘persons who ought to be joined if possible (sometimes referred  to as ‘necessary’ parties).’ [Citation] A determination that the persons are  necessary parties is the predicate for the determination whether they are  indispensable parties. Thus, subdivision (b) sets forth the factors the court  should consider in determining ‘whether in equity and good conscience the  action should proceed among the parties before it, or should be dismissed  without prejudice, the absent person being thus regarded as indispensable.’  (Italics added.)”  (Deltakeeper v.  Oakdale Irrigation District (2001) 94 Cal. App. 4th 1092, 1100 [Deltakeeper].)  “[A] person is an indispensable party [only]  when the judgment to be rendered necessarily must affect his rights.’” (Olszewski  v. Scripps Health (2003) 30 Cal. 4th 798, 808-809 [Citation omitted].)  “Stated differently, Where the plaintiff  seeks some type of affirmative relief which, if granted, would injure or affect  the interest of a third person not joined, that third person is an  indispensable party. . . . An indispensable party is not bound by a judgment in  an action in which he was not joined.”  (Washington  Mut. Bank v. Blechman (2007) 157 Cal. App. 4th 662, 667-668 [Citations and  internal quotations omitted].)             The first question then is whether  the allegedly indispensable parties are “necessary” within the meaning of  subdivision (a) of § 389 under clause (1) about whether “complete relief” can  be granted or under clause (2) regarding whether a disposition in the case will  impair the non-party’s interests. “Clause (1) stresses the desirability of  joining those persons in whose absence the court would be obliged to grant  partial or ‘hollow’ rather than complete relief to the parties before the  court. The interests that are being furthered here are not only those of the  parties, but also that of the public in avoiding repeated lawsuits on the same  essential subject matter. Clause (2)(i) recognizes the importance of protecting  the person whose joinder is in question against the practical prejudice to him  which may arise through a disposition of the action in his absence. Clause  (2)(ii) recognizes the need for considering whether a party may be left, after  the adjudication, in a position where a person not joined can subject him to a  double or otherwise inconsistent liability.” (Countrywide Home Loans, Inc.  v. Superior Court (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 785, 792–793, quoting Cal.  Law Revision Com. com., 14 West’s Ann.Code Civ. Proc. (1973 ed.) § 389, p.  224.)              The “complete relief” clause  “focuses not on whether complete relief can be afforded all possible parties to  the action, but on whether all relief can be afforded the parties named in the  action.”  (Deltakeeer, supra, 94  Cal. App. 4th at p. 1101.)  The Court  finds that the absence of the identified non-parties will not impair the  Court’s power to adjudicate the claims and defenses of the parties and award  appropriate relief.  Focusing first on  the declaratory relief claims, the Court can decide whether Plaintiff has a  right to access, inspect and copy the Partnership’s books and records without  Defendants’ interference (1st C/A), whether Defendant Rosenberg has a right to receive  management fees under the Partnership Agreement, without securing Plaintiff’s  consent (5th C/A), whether Defendants were authorized as Managing Partners to  secure loans without Plaintiff’s consent (6th C/A), whether Defendants were  entitled to amend the Partnership Agreement without Plaintiff’s consent (8th  C/A), and whether each Defendant’s transfer of his partnership interests to a limited  liability company is permissible and valid without Plaintiff’s prior written  consent (7th and 9th C/A).  All these  determinations are focused on Plaintiff’s rights as a partner and, if  Plaintiff’s contentions are accepted, the validity of actions taken by  Defendants acting individually or as Managing Partners for the Partnership.  Building on the legal declarations she  requests, Plaintiff also seeks rulings on whether the named Defendants breached  the Partnership Agreement through their conduct (3rd C/A) and, as a result,  should be expelled and disassociated from the Partnership pursuant to  Corporations Code §§ 16601(5)(A) and (B) (10th and 11th C/A).  Again, these causes of action zero in on  Defendants’ own actions and, if found to be improper, the legal consequences  that should flow from them.  Defendants  have not demonstrated that the Court’s ability to provide complete relief in  this case will be impaired by the absence of any non-parties.              Turning to the second clause of  §389(a), the Court concludes Defendants have not shown any practical impairment  of the rights of the identified non-parties. “[T]he pertinent question is  whether their absence from the litigation would impair their ability to protect  their interests in the ‘subject of the action,’” that is, the interpretation of  the Partnership Agreement as it relates to the rights and obligations of  Plaintiff and Defendants. (Deltakeeper, supra, at p. 1101.)  Addressing this question in People ex rel.  Lungren v. Community Development Agency (1997) 56 Cal. App. 4th 868, the  Court of Appeal examined whether the Attorney General’s action against a  community redevelopment agency to set aside the agency’s contract with a Native  American tribe could be litigated without joining the tribe.  The appellate court found the tribe was not a  necessary party for two reasons:  first,  the action challenged the legality of the agency’s actions in reaching the  agreement, not the tribe’s conduct; and second, to the extent the tribe would  lose out on the contract if the attack was successful, that interest was  adequately represented by the agency as the named defendant in the  litigation.  (Id., at p. 877.)  It is established that “[a] party’s ability  to protect its interest is not impaired or impeded as a practical matter where  a joined party has the same interest in the litigation.”  (Deltakeeper, supra, at p.  1102.)              Here, there is no question that  Defendants’ LLCs have the same interest as Defendants in litigating this matter  and, thus, cannot demonstrate a practical impairment of their interests.  Similarly, the other unnamed LLCs are more  than adequately represented by Defendants.   To be clear, Plaintiff does not challenge the validity of the transfers  to these entities, but to the extent any interpretation of the Partnership  Agreement would impact those transfers, the defense mounted by the named  Defendants is more than adequate to protect their identical interests in protecting  their ownership interests.  Nor can it be  said that the Partnership itself is left vulnerable, since its interests are championed  by Defendants either as individual partners whose views are aligned with the  entities’ current status or as Managing Partners advancing their governance  perspectives on behalf of the Partnership.   To the extent the Partnership’s best interests are more in sync with  Plaintiff’s objectives, these views too are sufficiently represented and  advanced in this action.  Based on this  analysis, the Court finds that Defendants have not proven that the identified  non-parties are necessary parties under subdivision (a) of section 389, much  less indispensable parties under subdivision (b).     D.      Defenses  of Laches and Statute of Limitations Plaintiff  filed this action on January 29, 2018.   She seeks declaratory relief regarding Defendants’ right to impede her  access to the Partnership’s books and records (1st C/A), and Defendants’ authority to pay  management fees to Edmundo Rosenberg’s company (5th C/A), to secure loans (6th  C/A) and to amend the Partnership Agreement (8th C/A) without Plaintiff’s  written consent, as well as the validity of Defendant’s transfers of their  interests to their LLCs (7th and 9th C/A).   Plaintiff also asserts that Defendants breached  the Partnership Agreement through their conduct (3rd C/A) and, as a result,  should be expelled and disassociated from the Partnership pursuant to  Corporations Code §§ 16601(5)(A) and (B) (10th and 11th C/A). Defendants contend the limitations  period for Plaintiff’s declaratory relief actions are derived from the theory  of the underlying claim, citing the four-year statute of limitations for breach  of contract and the three-year limitations period of claims based on fraud and  fiduciary breach.  (Defendants’ Trial  Brief, p. 12.)  Because Plaintiff’s  equitable claims are largely grounded in alleged breaches of the Brookshire  Partnership Agreement, the Court applies the four-year limitations period to  determine whether Plaintiff’s causes of action were untimely when they were  asserted on January 29, 2018.   In  her first cause of action, Plaintiff seeks declaratory relief in response to  Defendants’ restriction on her partnership right to inspect the Partnership’s books  and records.  Based on Plaintiff’s  evidence, Defendants’ restrictions on Plaintiff’s inspection rights occurred  between Intermittently, from 2014 through 2017, Plaintiffs requested an  opportunity to inspect Brookshire’s financial records, but their entreaties  were generally ignored or met with the disclosure of minimal information.  (Declaration of Arthur Diller, ¶¶  31-35.)  When Plaintiff made a formal  request to inspect the Partnership’s records through her attorney in October  2017, rather than producing the records for inspection, Defendants suddenly discontinued  Dorothy’s monthly distributions in October 2017. (Id., ¶ 34.)  These breaches plainly give rise to a  declaratory relief action regarding Plaintiff’s inspection rights that was  timely asserted a few months later, on January 29, 2018. Plaintiff’s  right to challenge the payment of management fees to Defendant Rosenberg  through his company under the fifth cause of action is also timely.  From at least January 2014 forward,  Brookshire paid Brookshire Dolan Management, Inc., for management fees.  (Exh. 103.)   Plaintiff contends, however, that Defendants did not advise her that  these management fees were being paid to Defendant Rosenberg using Brookshire Dolan Management, Inc., as a conduit.  (A. Diller Decl. ¶ 28.)  Further, Plaintiff did not discover that  Rosenberg owned and controlled Brookshire Dolan Management, Inc., until “some  months after October 2017, when Dorothy’s distributions were cut-off by Barry  Weiss and Rosenberg.”  (Id.)  Given Plaintiff’s delayed discovery of these  centrally important facts, it cannot be said that her declaratory relief action  seeking to challenge what she claims to be unauthorized payments made to  Rosenberg in violation of the Partnership Agreement was timely when asserted in  January 29, 2018.   Plaintiff’s  sixth cause of action challenges Defendants’ authority to arrange for  Partnership loans without prior consent of all partners, as she claims is  required under the Partnership Agreement.   The facts support a delayed discovery contention with respect to the  Bank Leumi loan obtained in 2011. Plaintiff’s evidence shows that Defendant  Weiss and Stanley Diller contacted Dorothy in early 2011, in connection with a  Partnership loan they were seeking to secure, to obtain her signature on an  Amendment and Power of Attorney that would have established all the named partners’  LLCs as the new partners of Brookshire (Exh. 30), but Dorothy and Arthur  steadfastly objected to the Amendment and refused to sign it.  (A. Diller Decl., ¶¶ 22-25 and Exh. 31, 32,  50.)  According to Arthur’s declaration, however,  he did not discover that Brookshire had proceeded to secure the loan based on  representations that the LLCs were Brookshire partners until the loan documents  were produced in response to a Court order in this case.  (A. Diller Decl., ¶ 25.)  Further, according to Arthur, it was not  until Defendants filed their demurrer that Plaintiff and Arthur discovered that  the latter’s signature had been forged on the 2011 Amendment and Power of  Attorney, and not until the bank’s records were produced, that they learned the  allegedly fraudulent Amendment was submitted in connection with the 2011 loan  application.  (Id., ¶¶ 38-39.)  Defendant Rosenberg testifies that he met with Arthur Diller sometime in  May-July 2011 to provide him with “a copy of the loan documents for the 2011  Bank Leumi $6 million loan to the Partnership.)   (E. Rosenberg Decl., ¶ 34.)  He  does not describe or produce the documents he claims to have provided to  Arthur, so it is unclear whether he is saying he produced the underlying  documentation in which Defendants represented to the bank that their LLCs were Brookshire  partners or the allegedly forged 2011 Amendment.  In any event, Arthur vociferously denies Rosenberg’s  account, potentially setting up a disputed issue that must be resolved at  trial.  (A. Diller Supp. Decl., ¶ 6.)   The  second loan transaction was consummated after the case was filed.  On February 10, 2021, Rosenberg wrote a  letter to all Brookshire Partners, including Plaintiff, asking that they  confirm to Pacific Premier Bank that Defendants’ LLCs were partners.  Defendants’ attorney also asked that Dorothy  execute loan documents in which Defendants represented that their LLCs are  partners.  (Id., ¶ 46.)  After Dorothy refused, defense counsel  provided Plaintiff with documents showing that Defendants had secured a  $4,345,000 loan from Valley National Bank based on representations that  Defendants’ LLCs were Brookshire partners. (Id., ¶ 47.)  Based on these facts, there is no question  that Plaintiff’s claims challenging the loans as unauthorized are timely.   The  eighth cause of action asserts the need for a judicial determination about  whether the Partnership Agreement can be amended without Plaintiff’s consent.  The issue of whether Plaintiff’s approval was  required to amend the Partnership Agreement was an active but unresolved dispute  in 2011.  As of October 7, 2014, Weiss sent  a letter to Plaintiff with an enclosed email from Rosenberg that seemed to  confirm that both Defendants agreed that no amendment could be effected without  Plaintiff’s consent.  (Exh. 37.)  In the Rosenberg email forwarded by Weiss,  the managing partners stated that a Change of Ownership Application could be  delayed by two problems:  first, that  Dorothy needed to submit documentation regarding her LLC to the licensing  board; and second, that “we need to resolve the Partnership Agreement, which  was executed by all the partners except Mrs. Diller in 2011.”  (Id.)   Thus, as of October 7, 2014 – less than four years before the lawsuit  was filed in January 2018 – Plaintiff had no reasons to conclude that  Defendants disagreed with her argument that her consent was required to amend  the Partnership Agreement.  Her challenge  to their subsequent reversal on this issue was, thus, timely brought.     Defendants  argue that execution of the Amendment and Power of Attorney would not have  amended the Partnership Agreement, but this is an argument that goes to the  substance of Plaintiff’s claim not to its timeliness.  Defendants also contend that any cause of  action based on this document accrued in 2011 when Plaintiff refused to sign  it.  But her protest would not support a  claim for improper amendment of the Partnership Agreement.  Based on undisputed evidence, Plaintiff  argues she did not know that there was an executed Amendment and Power of  Attorney document, albeit with Arthur’s forged signature, until after this case  was filed.  Defendants’ contentions do  not provide cogent support for their limitations defense as to this declaratory  relief claim.   Given  the Court’s rulings on these declaratory relief actions grounded on alleged  breaches of the Partnership Agreement, it follows that Plaintiff’s third cause  of action for breach of the Partnership Agreement and her tenth and eleventh  causes of action for expulsion and disassociation of Defendants because of  those breaches are also timely brought.   Because the underlying conduct that is being attacked occurred within  the four-year limitations period or was only discovered within that period,  these claims too will stand against a statute of limitations defense.               Plaintiff’s quest to invalidate Defendants’  transfers of their partnership interests to their LLCs via the seventh and ninth  causes of action presents a more complicated timeline for analysis of a  limitations defense.  Plaintiff first  learned of Defendants’ efforts to transfer their interests to their LLCs in  connection with a loan application in 2011.   The evidence is that is that Dorothy steadfastly refused to sign the  proffered Amendment and Power of Attorney that would have established all the  partners’ LLCs as the new partners of Brookshire (A. Diller Decl., ¶¶ 22-25 and  Exh. 30, 31, 32, 50.)  But, according to  Arthur’s declaration, he did not discover that Brookshire had proceeded with  the loan based on representations that the LLCs were Brookshire partners until  the loan documents were produced in response to a Court order in this  case.  (A. Diller Decl., ¶ 25.) When  she learned in December 2011 that Brookshire was issuing checks to Weiss’ LLC,  Dorothy sent a letter to him objecting that, since she had never signed the Amendment,  the LLC was not a partner and should not be paid any distributions and  directing Weiss to cease and desist any such distributions.  (Id., ¶ 26, Exh. 26.)  Neither Dorothy nor Arthur received any  response to the letter.  (A. Diller  Decl., ¶ 27.)  According to Defendants,  these facts gave rise to inquiry notice requiring Dorothy to conduct further  investigations or bring a lawsuit to challenge the allegedly improper transfers  to Defendants’ LLCs, with the limitations period beginning to run sometime in  2011 – more than 6 years before the action was commenced.   The  evidence supports the conclusion that Plaintiff in fact conducted an investigation  by repeatedly seeking documentation to expose the true financial situation of  Brookshire and its partners.  While  Plaintiffs’ evidence is not clear about when Barry Weiss took over management  of Brookshire, the implication is that it was after Stanley Diller’s death in  January 2012.  Thereafter, Plaintiffs  complain of missing, sporadic, incomplete, and inaccurate monthly reports about  Brookshire operations and irregular partnership distributions.  (A. Diller Decl. ¶¶ 29-32.)  Their requests to inspect the partnership  records fell on deaf ears.  (Id.,  ¶ 31.)  Then, on October 7, 2014, Plaintiff  received concrete information about partnership distributions to the LLC  partners.  In his letter of that date, Weiss  sent Dorothy an enclosed email with “the information you requested regarding  Brookshire Partners.”  (Exh. 37.)  The enclosure set forth the breakdown of the  partners’ interests in Brookshire, indicating that the LLCs of both defendants  had received distributions as partners in 2012 and 2013.  (Exh. 37.)   Plaintiff and Arthur made further efforts to get information to understand  the situation.  Questions posed by Arthur  in late 2015 about the sharp differential in 2014 net income and the total  distributions made to partners were answered in a February 3, 2016 letter from  Weiss’ accountant disclosing that, around the time the partnership  distributions abated, Weiss and Rosenberg paid themselves $300,000, which they claimed  to be a loan repayment.  (Id., ¶  32.) Although Plaintiffs asked Defendants to provide loan documents to  substantiate the loan, none were produced until after the lawsuit was  filed.  (Id.)  Intermittently, from before 2014 through at  least 2017, Plaintiffs requested an opportunity to inspect Brookshire’s  financial records, but their entreaties were ignored or denied.  (Id., ¶¶ 31-35.)  Given this evidence of investigation about  Plaintiff’s concerns and her timely commencement of suit within less than four  years after the Weiss letter and Rosenberg email were disclosed to Plaintiff,  the Court finds, at least on this record, that Plaintiffs’ challenges to the  partnership status of Defendants’ LLC were timely asserted in January  2018.               In support of their laches defense,  Defendants urge the Court to consider that the Partnership “continued to file  tax returns, pay distributions and submit licensing applications that were  premised upon the effectiveness of the transfer of the partnership interests to  LLCs in and before 2011.”  (Defendants’  Trial Brief, p. 12.)  Unfortunately,  Defendants cite no evidence that the Court should examine to corroborate this  argument.  Nor do they direct the Court’s  attention to evidence that these documents were distributed to Dorothy or  Arthur or that they otherwise received notice of these activities such that  they should have launched an earlier challenge. To the extent Dorothy knew of  the distributions to Defendants’ LLCs, this knowledge alone may not be  considered sufficient to prompt awareness of an illegal transfer.  As Rosenberg testified in his deposition,  Brookshire paid distributions to either the individual or the LLC based on the  partner’s convenience so who received payment did not necessarily identify the  actual partner.  (Supp. McMillen Decl.,  Exh. A, pp. 103-104.)   E.       Plaintiff’s  Standing As  they did in their unsuccessful motion for summary judgment, Defendants assert  that Plaintiff lacks standing to bring suit as a Brookshire partner because she  transferred her interest to her own LLC in 2000.  (Defendants’ Trial Brief, pp. 19-21.)  Apparently seeking to relitigate the Court’s  construction of the relevant provisions, Defendants argue that Plaintiff did  not need their consent to transfer her partnership interest to her LLC and  that, in any event, the Court should conclude that such consent was granted.  Defendants insert other arguments in their  standing challenge that are immaterial to the standing question.  (Id., p. 21.) Thus, whether Dorothy  had a right to be heard in partnership affairs is a substantive claim that will  be addressed separately and is wholly distinct from the question of whether she  retained her Partnership share.   Defendants’ separate affirmative defenses based on timeliness  contentions and Plaintiff’s own alleged misconduct or breaches are similarly irrelevant  to the standing question.  The  Court has already ruled that the Partnership Agreement and its 1984 and 1988  Amendments are reasonably susceptible of Plaintiff’s construction that she  needed prior written consent to transfer her partnership interest to her LLC,  because she was not granted transfer rights under Article 7.02.A of the  Partnership Agreement.  (Ruling on  Submitted Matter, filed June 3, 2021, p. 7.)   In reaching that conclusion, the Court noted Defendants’ failure to  offer any alternative construction of the 1988 Amendment adding Plaintiff as a  partner that somehow granted Plaintiff the rights of previous partners under  Article 7.02.A to exercise certain transfer rights without the approval of the  other Brookshire partners.  (Id.,  pp. 6-7.)  The same is true for  Defendants’ trial brief.  After  conducting a thorough analysis of the issue, the Court held that, “[b]ased on  the plain terms of the partnership agreement as amended in 1984 and 1988, . . .  , under Article 7.02.A, . . . Plaintiff could not simply transfer her interest  to a corporation or other entity she owned but had to obtain the ‘previous  written consent of all the Partners’ required under § 7.02.B to effectuate such  a transfer.”  (Id., p. 8.)  “Having construed the partnership agreement  based on its plain terms and finding no ambiguity in those terms, the Court  decline[d] to discuss the parole evidence submitted by the parties.”  (Id.)   In the context of the summary judgment motion, Defendants failed to  proffer any evidence of “previous written consent,” which under the Partnership  Agreement must be in writing, signed, and maintained with the books of the  Partnership.  (Id.)   Similarly,  in the current posture, Defendants have submitted no evidence of previous  written consent given by all Partners to approve Plaintiff’s transfer to her  LLC.  The evidence regarding Plaintiff’s  2000 attempt to assign her interests to her LLC is as follows.  It is true, as Defendants contend, that Plaintiff  purported to assign her partnership share to her LLC in May 2000 and that her  attorney wrote two letters in late May 2000 asserting the assignment had already  been accomplished and directing that her distributions be sent to the LLC.  (Exh. 11, 12, 44.)  But Defendants did not accept or agree to this  assignment, nor did they send distribution checks to the LLC as requested.  Instead, Defendants’ attorney conveyed a  revised Assignment document and proposed Amended Statement of Partnership to  Plaintiff’s attorney that included modifications that Plaintiff and Arthur  considered “completely unacceptable.”   (A. Diller Decl., ¶¶ 14-15, Exh. 109.)   In response, Plaintiff abandoned her efforts to get approval of the  assignment she had sought.  (D. Diller  Decl., ¶ 7.)  Multiple documents in the  record corroborate that the partnership interest remained in Dorothy’s name and  did not transfer to her LLC, which she abandoned.  (Exh. 25; 37; 66, p. 38; 67, p. 19; 70, p.  20; 71, p. 13; 96; 97.)   In  summary, there is no evidence of the Brookshire partners’ written consent to  Plaintiff’s assignment, and the clear inference from Defendants’ refusal to forward  distributions to Plaintiff’s LLC in compliance with her attorney’s request and  their effort to have a different, revised Assignment document executed by Plaintiff  is that they did not consent to or recognize the proposed assignment.  On this record, there is no question that  Plaintiff is a named Brookshire partner and, as such, she has standing to raise  the claims asserted.  The fact that  Defendants may have approved transfers by other partners to their LLCs says  nothing about how they responded to Plaintiff’s effort to make a similar  assignment.  (Defendants’ Trial Brief, p.  21.)   PARTIAL  TENTATIVE RULING FOR PHASE 1 BENCH TRIAL   HEARING DATE:  February  6, 2024 CASE:                    Dorothy  Diller v. Barry Weiss, et al. CASE NO.:             BC691484   II.                   PLAINTIFF’S  CLAIMS   A.      Breaches  of Article 1.03.C of the Partnership Agreement Plaintiff  asserts that Defendants breached Article 1.03.C because they have never been  Brookshire’s appointed agents with power to sign “all documents, leases, deeds,  trust deeds, notes, amended certificates of fictitious firm names, amended  statements of partnership and/or any other agreements affecting the property or  business.”  (Exh. 1-2.)  This appointment is to be accomplished by a  “statement and Power of Attorney signed, acknowledged and verified by each of  the partners” and must be filed with the County Recorder in each county where  the partnership owns real estate. (Id., Art. 1.03.C.)  Plaintiff regards these appointed agents to  be distinct from Brookshire’s Managing Partners, who are charged with “complete  management and control of the operation of the business of the Partnership” and  must “devote so much of their time as may be required in connection with the  affairs and operation of this Partnership’s business,” with the optional  assistance of a hired management company.   (Id., Art. 3, § 3.01.)   Indeed, the original Partnership Agreement did not name the same persons  to serve as the Partnership’s agents (Joseph K. Kornwasser or Jerald Friedman,  together with Stanley Diller) and the Managing Partners (Joseph K. Kornwasser and  Stanley Diller).  In 1988, the Brookshire  partners executed the Second Amendment to the Articles of Partnership on  November 16, 1988, naming Joseph Kornwasser and Morris  Weiss as the Managing Partners.   (Exh. 1-35.)  They separately affixed  their notarized signatures to an Amended Statement of Partnership and Power of  Attorney, in which Joseph Kornwasser and Morris Weiss were appointed as “the  agent and true and lawful attorney to execute documents with respect to or  affecting the property of the business of the Partnership.”  (Exh. 2-1.)   In 1997, when Kornwasser and Friedman withdrew from the Partnership, the  Amended Statement of Partnership did not amend the existing appointment of the  Partnership’s agents or appoint new ones.   (Exh. 110.)   It  is undisputed that Defendants have signed the kind of real estate documents,  including deeds and trust deeds, that the Partnership Agreement says only  appointed agents are authorized to execute.   There is apparently no dispute, moreover, that all the partners, except Plaintiff,  executed the Amended Statement of Partnership and Power of Attorney in March  2011, purporting to appoint Defendant Weiss and now deceased Stanley Diller as  the Partnership’s attorneys in fact and to name their LLCs as Brookshire’s  Managing Partners.  (Defendants’ Exh. 14  and 51.)  The legitimacy of Weiss’  appointment as the Partnership’s attorney in fact rests largely on whether  Plaintiff’s approval was necessary and, if so, whether it was obtained.  There are two arguments to be considered in  this regard.  The first concerns whether  Plaintiff enjoyed any authority to vote on or control partnership matters after  she acquired her partnership share in 1988.   The second issue boils down to whether Arthur actually signed the  Amended Statement or, alternatively, his signature was forged.  The first issue is addressed below, while the  second is a matter that will likely require a trial and cross-examination of  the key witnesses.    Defendants  also seek to fend off Plaintiff’s challenge to Defendant’s authority to sign  real estate documents by arguing that each family had the right to appoint  successors to serve as managing partners in the wake of the death of one of the  named managing partners.  (Defendants’  Reply, p. 25.)  Because the issue raised  by Plaintiff involves the authority of Defendants to act as attorneys in  fact for Brookshire, not as Managing Partners, however, this contention  is beside the point.   B.       The  Scope of Plaintiff’s Authority to Act on or Approve Partnership Actions Plaintiff  contends that her partnership rights included the right to approve the  appointment of the Partnership’s attorney in fact and to modify the terms of  the Partnership Agreement – both of which were rights accorded all partners when  the partnership was created in 1982.  In  opposition, Defendants argue Plaintiff never had such authority because the  1988 Amendment that deemed her a partner denied her any right to participation  in the management of the Partnership’s business and any “voice or vote in [the  termination of the Partnership] or any partnership matter except in the event  of a dispute under Article 3.01.”  (Exh.  1-25, 1988 Amendment, Art. 3.01.A and 4.01.)   The question involves the construction of the 1988 Amendment as a modification  of the Partnership Agreement as previously amended in 1984. At  the time the 1988 Amendement was executed, many provisions of the Partnership  Agreement require the joint participation of all partners to modify the  relationship between the partners or engage in conduct regarding control of the  Partnership.  Thus, for example, it is  “the partners” who were responsible for filing and publishing a Fictitious  Business Name Statement and for signing, filing, and publishing an amended  version upon “any subsequent change in the membership of this Partnership.”  (Exh. 1, Art. 1.03.B.)  Similarly, as  noted above, a Power of Attorney appointing Brookshire’s attorney in fact had  to be “signed, acknowledged and verified by each of the partners” and then  recorded in each county where the Partnership owns real estate.  (Id., Art. 1.03.C.)  In addition, a termination of the Partnership  could occur only if there is unanimous agreement of all Partners.  (Art. 4.01.)   Further, the “members of this Partnership shall have the irrevocable  right and option to terminate the interest of any Partner” in the event certain  listed financial events impinge upon the partner’s interest in Brookshire.  (Art. 6.01.)   Although parties to the Partnership Agreement enjoy the right to make  certain transfers of their interests to closely aligned persons and parties, any  other transfers by a Partner required the “previous written consent of all of  the Partners.”  (Art. 7.02.)   Finally,  and of significance here, the Partnership Agreement may only be amended or  modified “in whole or in part, but any amendment or modification shall be in  writing and singed by all of the Partners.”   (Art. 9.06.)  The agreement  provides, in relevant part, “where any conflict arises between the provisions  of said amendment or modification and provisions incorporated in earlier  documents, the most recent provisions shall be controlling.  It shall not be necessary to revise the  entire Partnership Agreement where only minor changes are affected and  alteration shall be permitted either on the face of this instrument, by way of  addendum, or in an entirely new document, providing only, that such alteration  shall be dated and the signatures of the Partners shall appear in reasonable  proximity to such alteration.” (Id.)   Moreover,  as noted above, the Partners act jointly to appoint an attorney in fact who is  given the power to sign “all documents, leases, deeds, trust deeds, notes,  amended certificates of fictitious firm names, amended statements of  partnership and/or any other agreements affecting the property or business.”  (§ 1.03.C.)    The  question here involves the nature of Plaintiff’s right, if any, to vote on  Partnership decisions after she became a partner in 1988.  There is no dispute that she and her  ex-husband were explicitly excluded from participation in managing the affairs  of the Partnership.  Thus, the 1988  Amendment to the Partnership Agreement includes a modification of Article  3.01’s grant of complete control to the Managing Partner over Brookshire’s  business operations, unless there is dispute between the designated  managers.  (1988 Amendment, §  3.01.A.)  In that situation, the  “majority in interest of the Partners will prevail.”  (Id.)   The amendment clarifies that this tie-breaking mechanism includes  Plaintiff and Stanley Diller, but that otherwise they “shall have no voice or  management in the affairs of the Partnership.”   (Id.)  The amendment also  clarifies Plaintiff’s consent to allow the Managing Partner to bind and act on  her behalf.  (Id.)  To the extent any decisions fall within the  scope of the Managing Partner’s authority, then, Plaintiff has no power to  complain or cast a dissenting vote. Plaintiff’s  complaints about the amendment of the Partnership Agreement and the appointment  of Brookshire’s attorney-in-fact do not fall within the scope of the Managing  Partners’ authority or the management of the Partnership’s regular business  operations.  Managing Partners have  “complete management and control of the operation of the business of the Partnership”  and must “devote so much of their time as may be required in connection with  the affairs and operation of this Partnership’s business,” with the optional  assistance of a hired management company.   (Id., Art. 3, § 3/01.)   Specific powers are also granted to the  Managing Partners who are charged with giving “express written consent” to a  request to withdraw the capital of the Partnership.  (Id., Art. 2.04.)  They are also given authority to determine  the method for keeping the records of the Partnership and to make withdrawals  from Partnership accounts. (Art. 2.08, 2.15.B.)   The Managing Partners are also empowered to give consent to the  Partnership’s efforts to borrow funds and to determine the amount of funds that  may be withdrawn by the Partners.  (Art.  2.17, 3.04.)  “Only the Managing Partners  shall have authority to bind the Partners in making contracts and incurring  obligations in the name and on the credit of the Partnership in the ordinary  course of the Partnership business.”  (Art.  3.05; 3.07.)  A majority of the managing  partners may also issue a call for additional capital contributions from the  Partners.  (Exh. 1, 1984 Amendment,  §2.01(b), § 2.02.)  The defaulting  partner shall “have his voting rights terminated under any of the provisions of  this Partnership Agreement,” and “any and all profits and/or losses of the  Partnership shall cease for such defaulting Partner” until the defaulted amount  is paid.  (Id.)  The Court concludes that the actions  challenged by Plaintiff here do not fall within the restriction placed on her involvement  in Partnership business by the version of Article 3.01 adopted in 1988.             Article 4.01 was also amended in  1988. Whereas it previously dictated that “the Partnership may be terminated at  any time upon the unanimous agreement of the Partners,” the 1988 Agreement authorized  termination “upon the agreement of K&F and the Weiss Group,” thus excluding  Plaintiff and Stanley Diller, who “agree[d] that they have no voice or vote in  this matter or any other partnership matter except in the event of a dispute  under Article 3.01.”  (Exh. 1-35.)  An Article 3.01 dispute would not concern a  “partnership matter” like the termination of the Partnership, however, but  rather a dispute between the Managing Partners about how to operate the  Partnership’s business operations.  Plaintiff  argues that Articles 3.01 and 4.01 should be read as the only restrictions  placed on Plaintiff’s partnership power, leaving intact Articles 1.03.C and  9.06 and the authority they grant to all partners to appoint the Partnership’s  attorney in fact and modify the Partnership Agreement.  In support of this construction, she urges  the Court to conclude that the interpretation advanced by Defendants would  result in a drastic change in the partnership bargain and, thus, would have  mandated an entirely new agreement.   Given the absence of a new Partnership Agreement and the 1988 Amendment’s  reference to only specific articles being modified, the Court should conclude,  according to Plaintiff, that she was granted all other partnership rights other  than the right to vote on termination and any power to meddle in partnership  business.               In support of her narrow  interpretation of the 1988 version of Article 4.01, Plaintiff directs the  Court’s attention to the parties’ dealings over time as evidence that  Defendants have recognized the kinds of partnership rights that have regularly  been accorded to Plaintiff.  Plaintiff  points first to a letter written by her attorney in 1999, asserting her right  to object to loans taken out in the Partnership’s name without Plaintiff’s  approval (Plaintiff’s Exh. 40), but this is only a statement of Plaintiff’s  position not proof of the parties’ joint course of action or of Defendants’ acquiescence  in Plaintiff’s view.  In contrast,  Defendants’ actions over many years convey their view that Plaintiff’s consent  was required to implement structural and loan decisions by the other partners,  including the 2011 Amendment of the Partnership Agreement and the appointment  of Weiss as Brookshire’s attorney-in-fact.   (Plaintiff’s Exh. 31, 32, 50.) It is also significant that, in welcoming  Plaintiff as a new partner in 1988 with somewhat limited partnership rights,  the Partnership had both Plaintiff and Stanley Diller sign the Amended  Statement of Partnership and Power of Attorney in November 1988, thus  exercising their partnership rights and duties to appoint the attorney-in-fact  to act on behalf of Brookshire.   (Plaintiff’s Exh. 2.)  The  decision to include Plaintiff in this appointment – required to be accomplished  by all the Partners – appears to be inconsistent with Defendants’ narrow  reading of the 1988 Amendment.             On the other side of the coin,  Defendants rely on the November 15, 1988 letter in which Plaintiff agreed to  sell 13.5 percent of Brookside, representing one-half of her holdings.  In that letter, Plaintiff agreed to waive  “any rights to manage the partnership or to obligate or negotiate on its behalf  in any matter whatsoever except that you shall have the right to vote in  partnership meetings as to the sale of the property but you agree to be bound  by a majority vote.”  (Defendants’ Exh.  6.)  As parol evidence used to interpret  the 1988 Amendment, this document interjects additional confusion rather than  clarity.  Plaintiff’s exclusion from  managing the partnership’s business or negotiating on its behalf does not  appear to be in dispute, so the first part of the restrictive clause is of  little help.  The second part indicates  that Plaintiff would have a right to vote on the sale of the property, but this  is not addressed at all in the 1988 Amendment, which only addresses a vote to  resolve a dispute among the Managing Partners and a right to vote on a  non-judicial termination of the Partnership.   The letter does not appear to address any other restrictions on  Plaintiff’s ability to exercise the customary partnership rights and, thus, if  it has any force, tends to support Plaintiff’s interpretation of the 1988  Amendment.  This conclusion is consistent  with the testimony of Arthur Diller who negotiated the sale of the 13.5 percent  share to Jerald Friedman.  Arthur states  there was “no discussion or agreement whatsoever that Dorothy would give up her  right to vote on future amendments to the Partnership Agreement such as to add  new partners,” only an agreement that she would not be involved in operating  the Partnership’s business.  (A. Diller  Decl, ¶ 9.)               The Court will entertain argument on  two key points with respect to the issue of what rights Plaintiff was provided  in connection with the 1988 Amendment.   First, is there an ambiguity in the 1988 Amendment such that the Court  should consider parol evidence in construing it?  Second, if there is an ambiguity, how should  the Court interpret the 1988 Amendment as it relates to Plaintiff’s partnership  rights, based on the evidence submitted?   Considering Arthur Diller’s declaration about the negotiations in which  he was involved, it appears to the Court that any ambiguity will have to be resolved  after the Court receives evidence at trial.         Individual  partners are also accorded certain rights and responsibilities under the  Partnership Agreement.  They are entitled  to receive bona fide offers to buy Partnership property, exercise an option to  respond to such offers, and purchase the property tendered on a pro rata basis  before the property is sold to the bona fide purchaser.  (Art. 8.)   In addition, certain identified partners are authorized to transfer  their Partnership shares to closely aligned parties, including “a General or  Limited Partnership or Corporation in which they or one of their original  members or partners own and maintain a controlling interest.”  (Partnership Agreement, § 7.02; 1984  Amendment, § 7.02.A; 1988 Amendment, § 7.02.A.)     