 Case Number:  23STCV09263    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  76             Plaintiffs allege that Defendants
have failed to remediate uninhabitable conditions at the rental units.
 
            Attorney Friedman & Chapman, LLP
moves to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiffs Ebony Martin and Gregory McKeown.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Attorney Friedman & Chapman,
LLP’s motions to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiffs Ebony Martin and Gregory
McKeown are GRANTED. This order shall become effective upon
the filing of the proof of service of the signed order upon the clients.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
Motions To Be Relieved As Counsel 
 
            Attorney Friedman & Chapman, LLP
moves to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiffs Ebony Martin and Gregory McKeown.
 
California
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362 requires that the following Mandatory Judicial
Council forms be filed for a motion to be relieved as counsel: Notice of Motion
and Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel--Civil (form MC-051); Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel--Civil (form MC-052); and Order Granting Attorney's Motion
to Be Relieved as Counsel--Civil (form MC-053). (See Calif. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362(a), (c), (e).)  These three forms must be served on must be
served on the client and on all other parties who have appeared in the case.
(Calif. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362(d).)
 
The Court may issue an order allowing an attorney to
withdraw from representation, after notice to the client. (Code Civ. Proc., §
284(2).) An attorney may withdraw with or without cause as long as the
withdrawal would not result in undue prejudice to the client's interest - i.e.,
counsel cannot withdraw at a critical point in the litigation because that
would prejudice client, but can withdraw otherwise.  (Ramirez
v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915.) The court has discretion to
deny an attorney’s request to withdraw where such withdrawal would work an
injustice or cause undue delay in the proceeding; but the court’s discretion in
this area is one to be exercised reasonably. (Mandell v. Superior Court (1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 1, 4.)
 
All mandatory Judicial Council forms have been submitted and
filled out. 


The
client has failed to respond to communication efforts by counsel. (Declarations,
¶ 2.)
 
Trial is
currently set for July 14 2025, which gives the clients time to locate new
counsel, if they wish but need not do, as individuals may represent themselves
in pro per.
 
Here, permitting withdrawal of counsel is appropriate
because counsel need not represent clients who do not communicate with counsel.

 
All mandatory Judicial Council
forms have been submitted and filled out.
 
The motions to be relieved as counsel are GRANTED. This order shall
become effective upon the filing of the proof of service of the signed order
upon the clients.  