 Case Number:  22STCV34071    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  76  
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants
fraudulently manipulated and falsified data to induce Plaintiff into investing
money in research and development pipelines (product candidates)  for the treatment of Hepatitis B, and
coronavirus and influenza viruses.
 
Defendants G Tech Bio LLC and
Seraph Research Institute filed a Cross-Complaint against Cross-Defendant
Renovaro Biosciences, Inc. for declaratory relief. 
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Renovaro
Biosciences Inc. moves to strike portions of the Cross-Complaint. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Renovaro Biosciences Inc.’s motion to strike 
¶¶ 5 – 15 of the Cross-Complaint is GRANTED without leave to
amend.
 
Cross-Defendant Renovaro
Biosciences Inc. is to answer the remaining allegations of the Cross-Complaint
within 10 days.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Motion To Strike
 
Meet and Confer
 
The Declaration of Christopher J.
Valente reflects that Cross-Defendant’s counsel satisfied the meet and confer
requirement set forth in Civ. Proc. Code, § 435.5.
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Renovaro
Biosciences Inc. moves to strike the following portions of the Cross-Complaint:
¶¶ 5 – 15 of the Cross-Complaint, as irrelevant. 
 
The court
may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:
 
(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading.

     (Civ.
Proc. Code, § 436(a).)
 
The motion to strike ¶¶ 5 – 15 is GRANTED without
leave to amend. These allegations pertain to conduct occurring up to May 2022.
This is irrelevant to the declaratory relief action which relies on conduct
which occurred from June 2022 forward to justify declaratory relief that the
Framework, HBV, and Covid/Influenza Agreements have been terminated, and that
the Covid Agreement is non-exclusive. 
 
Declaratory relief is not available to address
completed past wrongs:  
 
"The purpose of a judicial
declaration of rights in advance of an actual tortious incident is to enable
the parties to shape their conduct so as to avoid a breach. '[D]eclaratory
procedure operates prospectively, and not
merely for the redress of past wrongs. It serves to set controversies at
rest before they lead to repudiation of
obligations, invasion of rights or commission of wrongs; in short, the
remedy is to be used in the interests of preventive
justice, to declare rights rather than execute them.' " (Citation
omitted.) 
 
(Roberts v. Los Angeles County
Bar Assn. (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 604, 618 [bold emphasis added].)
          If Cross-Complainants wished to file
an amended Cross-Complaint before the hearing, they should have done so within
the time permitted in Civ. Proc. Code, § 472(a) and § 1005(b), i.e., nine court
days before the hearing date, which would be May 29, 2024. The opposition was filed
on June 3, 2024. While the Court considered the late opposition—and thus
Cross-Defendant’s request to strike the late-filed opposition is DENIED—the
proposed amended Cross-Complaint is untimely submitted. 
 
Cross-Defendant Renovaro Biosciences Inc. is to
answer the remaining allegations of the Cross-Complaint within 10 days.