  Case Number:  22STCV15940    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  76             Plaintiff allege that Defendants
steered Plaintiff into a “hard money loan” mortgage used to evade the
requirements of the Dodd-Frank Amendments to the Truth-in-Lending Act (“TILA”).
Defendant lender allegedly deprived Plaintiff of use of loan funds needed to
make necessary repairs to the property and caused the property to be sold a
trustee’s sale.
Defendant Joe Parada moves to set
aside the entry of default against him.
TENTATIVE RULING           
            Defendant
Joe Parada’s motion to set aside the
entry of default against Defendant Parada is GRANTED. Defendant Parada is to
file a stand-alone copy of his Answer to the Third Amended Complaint today. The
Answer shall be deemed served as of the date of this order.
ANALYSIS
Motion To Set Aside Default
Request
For Judicial Notice
            Plaintiff’s request that the Court
take judicial notice of the Court Ruling in LASC Case number 24STCV00639 Dated
April 10, 2024, from Department 14 is DENIED as not relevant to this Court’s
ruling. The
Court need only take judicial notice of relevant materials. (Mangini v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.
(1994) 7 Cal.4th 1057, 1063, overruled in part on other grounds noted in In re Tobacco
Cases II (2007) 41
Cal.4th 1257, 1276.) The Court may deny a request for judicial notice of
material unnecessary to its decision. (Rivera v. First
DataBank, Inc. (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 709, 713.)
Discussion
Defendant Joe
Parada moves to set aside the entry of default against him on the ground that
he was never served with the Third Amended Complaint.
 
Civ. Proc. Code, § 473(b) provides:
 
(b) The court may, upon any terms
as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a
judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her
through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application
for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading
proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted,
and shall be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months,
after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. . . .
Notwithstanding any other requirements of this section, the court shall,
whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months after entry
of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn
affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect,
vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her
client, and which will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting
default judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the
court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the
attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. The court shall,
whenever relief is granted based on an attorney’s affidavit of fault, direct
the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing
counsel or parties. However, this section shall not lengthen the time within
which an action shall be brought to trial pursuant to Section 583.310.
 
    
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473(b).)
On April 17, 2024, default was
entered against Defendant Joe Parada. This motion to set aside default was
served and filed on May 14, 2024, within the time limit set forth in § 473(b).
            A motion to
vacate default may be brought on the grounds that service of process did not
substantially comply with the requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure. (See
Summers v. McClanahan (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 403, 405.) When a defendant challenges the court's personal jurisdiction on the
ground of improper service of process the burden is on the plaintiff to prove
the existence of jurisdiction by proving the facts requisite to an effective
service. (Summers, supra, 140 Cal.App.4th at 413.)  The Second District Court of Appeals has
noted that a new rule of liberal construction has replaced the old rule of
strict compliance with statutes governing service of process. (Id. at 410-11.) However, actual notice is
insufficient to uphold service of process if “there has been a complete
failure to comply with the statutory requirements for service.” (Id. at
414).
            In this regard:
 
[A] finding of substantial compliance requires
three preconditions. First, there must have been some degree of compliance with
the offended statutory requirements. (Citations omitted.) Second, the objective
nature and circumstances of the attempted service must have made it “ ‘ “highly
probable” ’ ” that it would impart the same notice as full compliance.
(Citation omitted.) Finally, it must in fact have imparted such notice, or at
least sufficient notice to put the defendant on his defense. In this regard, it
is not enough that the process inform the defendant of the fact of a lawsuit,
or even of a lawsuit in which his name appears. Due process requires notice of
“the duty to defend.” (Citation omitted.)
 
(Carol Gilbert, Inc. v. Haller (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 852, 865-66.)
 
Moreover, on a motion to set
aside default, the Court makes a credibility determination:
 
“It has long been the general rule and understanding that … ‘it is the
province of the trial court to decide questions of fact … .’ [Citation.]” (In
re Zeth S. (2003) 31 Cal.4th 396, 405 [2 Cal. Rptr. 3d 683, 73 P.3d 541].)
Assessing credibility is inherently entwined in making factual determinations.
The two cannot be more easily separated than a string of holiday lights jumbled
into a giant gordian knot. Both properly lie within the role of the trial
court. (See Navarro v. Perron (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 797, 803 [19 Cal. Rptr. 3d
198].)  
 
A large majority
of what must be considered in ruling on the Bones' motion to set aside the
default and the default judgment hinges on the relative credibility of the
parties involved. . . . [*292] . . .
 
We recognize, as the trial court noted, “[i]t is very difficult to try
[to] piece together who was served when, what went on between [the] two
parties, [starting] out with [the] re-lease of the [automobile,] and all [the]
legal proceedings that followed.” However, as
difficult as the determination may be, the trial court is obligated to
correctly weigh each party's assertions and come to a conclusion regarding the
motion before it.
 
(Moghaddam v. Bone (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th
283, 290-92 [bold emphasis added].)  
            Here, Defendant Parada filed a
verified answer to the Second Amended Complaint on Aprill 11, 2023. Plaintiff
filed the Third Amended Complaint on September 11, 2023. The proof of service
filed on September 11, 2023 does not reflect that Defendant Parada’s counsel at
the time—Paul Orloff[1]—was
served with a copy of the Third Amended Complaint.
            Defendant attached as Exhibit C to
his motion a proposed answer to the Third Amended Complaint to, as required by
Civ. Proc Code, § 473.5(b).  It was not
until April 3, 2024 that Plaintiff’s current counsel Brenda E. Vargas filed a
proof of electronic service, dated 3/21/24, which reflects that attorney
Orloff was electronically served with the Third Amended Complaint on September
11, 2023.
            This proof of service has visible indicia of manipulation and is not credible. As Defendant notes, it appears
some portion has been whited out, and there is no explanation why the e-mail
address: “paul@orloffilitigation.com” is in a different font, rather than typed
in the same font as the other spaces filled in the form. Nor is there an
explanation why the “21” in the date line, March 11, 2024, is in a
different—apparently typewritten—font to fill in a blank space for 3____24,
rather than simply typed in the same font as the other spaced filled in the
form.
            In short, the Court does not find
this cobbled-together proof of service to be credible. The Court
finds by a preponderance of the evidence that Defendant Parada was not properly
served with a copy of the Third Amended Complaint prior to the entry of his
default.
            As such, the motion to set aside the
entry of default against Defendant Parada is GRANTED. Defendant Parada is to
file a stand-alone copy of his Answer to the Third Amended Complaint today. The
Answer shall be deemed served as of the date of this order. 


