 Case Number:  23STCV18355    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  76             Plaintiff
alleges that her employment was terminated in retaliation for whistleblowing
activities. Plaintiff also alleges a failure to accommodate her disability, and
wage and hour violations.
Defendants
Claremont Graduate University moves for leave to file a First Amended Answer. 
TENTATIVE RULING
            Defendant
Claremont Graduate University’s motion for leave to file a First Amended Answer
is GRANTED. 
            Defendant
is to file a stand-alone copy of the First Amended Answer today, which is
deemed served as of the date of this order.
ANALYSIS
Motion For Leave
To Amend Answer
Evidentiary
Objection To Declaration of Kelcy Hoffman
 
No. 1: OVERRULED.
Relevant; permissible argument by counsel.
No. 2: OVERRULED.
Relevant; not hearsay, as statement goes to what Plaintiff did not say.
No. 3: OVERRULED.
Relevant; not hearsay—not being offered for truth of counsel’s statements, but
rather to show improper questioning. 
No. 4: OVERRULED.
Relevant. 
No. 5: OVERRULED.
Relevant.
 
Discussion
 
Defendants
Claremont Graduate University moves for leave to file a First Amended Answer to
assert a new affirmative defense for lack of capacity.
 
Cal Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324
provides:
 
(a) Contents of motion A motion to amend a pleading before trial
must:
 
 (1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended
pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous
pleadings or amendments;
 
 (2) State what allegations in the previous pleading are
proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number,
the deleted allegations are located; and
 
 (3) State what allegations are proposed to be added to the
previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located. 
 
 
(b) Supporting declaration A separate
declaration must accompany the motion and must specify:
 
 (1) The
effect of the amendment;
 
 (2) Why
the amendment is necessary and proper;
 
 (3) When
the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and
 
 (4) The
reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier. 
 
(Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324.)
 
            Here, the motion does not set forth
the proposed amendment, but that is easily found in the redlines version of the
proposed First Amended Answer, attached as Exhibit B to the Declaration of John
S. Keeney. 
 
            The Keeney Declaration sets forth
the effect of the amendment, why the amendment is necessary and proper and when
the facts giving rise to the amendment allegations were discovered, which then
explains why the request for amendment was not made earlier.
 
            The Keeney Declaration sets forth
that, at Plaintiff’s April 24, 2024 deposition, she testified that she had 8
personalities. Defendant seeks to assert a lack of capacity affirmative defense
based on this newly-discovered information. “Incapacity
is merely a legal disability, such as infancy or insanity, which deprives a
party of the right to come into court.” (Color-Vue,
Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1604.)
 
Generally, the validity of the proposed amendment is not considered in
determining whether leave to amend is proper; rather, a demurrer or other law
and motion is the appropriate means of testing the legal sufficiency of the
claim. (See Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court
(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.) “[E]ven if the proposed legal theory is a
novel one, ‘the preferable practice would be to permit the amendment and allow
the parties to test its legal sufficiency by demurrer, motion for judgment on
the pleadings or other appropriate proceedings.’ (Citations omitted.)” (Id.)
 
Defendant
is entitled to test the extent to which Plaintiff’s multiple personalities
affects her ability to understand the nature of her claims against Defendants.
Evidence of multiple personalities certainly goes to Plaintiff’s credibility. 
 
Given
that Plaintiff’s deposition occurred on April 24, 2024 and this motion was
served and filed on May 10, 2024, Defendant did not unreasonably delay in
seeking leave to amend. Plaintiff’s claim that Defendant had Plaintiff’s
medical records on March 12, 2024, which note Plaintiff’s dissociative identity
disorder, does not transform any such delay into an unreasonable one. 
 
            The
motion for leave to file a First Amended Answer is GRANTED.  
 
            Defendant
is to file a stand-alone copy of the First Amended Answer today, which is
deemed served as of the date of this order.

 