  Case Number:  21TRCV00410    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  P Statement of DecisionHearing Date: March 7, 2024Moving Parties: Defendants NRC/UTU Health and Welfare Plan, and Highmark Blue Cross Blue ShieldResponding Party: Plaintiffs Ramin M. Roohipour, M.D., Inc. and R&R Surgical InstituteMotion for Summary Judgment or Summary AdjudicationThe court considered the moving, opposition, reply, sur-reply, supplemental opposition papers, and oral argument.RULINGDefendants NRC/UTU Health and Welfare Plan, and Highmark Blue Cross Blue Shield’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.BACKGROUNDOn June 7, 2021, Plaintiffs Ramin M. Roohipour, M.D., Inc. and R&R Surgical Institute filed the Complaint against Defendants National Railway Carriers/United Transportation Union (NRC/UTU) Health and Welfare Plan; Highmark Blue Cross Blue Shield; California Physicians Service dba Blue Shield of California; and DOES 1 through 20, inclusive for: (1) Breach of Oral Contract; (2) Promissory Estoppel; (3) Intentional Misrepresentation; (4) Negligent Misrepresentation; and (5) Violation of Business and Professions Code § 17200, et seq.On October 25, 2023, Defendants NRC/UTU Health and Welfare Plan and Highmark Blue Cross Blue Shield filed this instant Motion for Summary Judgment or in the Alternative, for Summary Adjudication. On December 22, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their opposition. On January 3, 2024, Defendants NRC/UTU Health and Welfare Plan and Highmark Blue Cross Blue Shield filed their reply.On January 8, 2024, this Court provided Plaintiffs the opportunity to respond to new evidence submitted with Defendants NRC/UTU Health and Welfare Plan and Highmark Blue Cross Blue Shield’s reply brief. The supplemental opposition was to be filed and served by January 16, 2024 and any supplemental reply was to be filed and served by January 23, 2024. On January 23, 2024, Defendants NRC/UTU Health and Welfare Plan and Highmark Blue Cross Blue Shield filed a notice of non-opposition and sur-reply. On January 24, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their supplemental opposition.The Court notes that Plaintiffs’ supplemental opposition is untimely, but will exercise its discretion and consider it on the merits.EVIDENTIARY RULINGSIn support of their motion, Defendants NRC/UTU Health and Welfare Plan and Highmark Blue Cross Blue Shield advance the declaration of Kimberly Bortz. Plaintiffs objects to portions of the Bortz declaration. The Court rules on Plaintiffs’ objections as follows:OVERRULED: 1-4SUSTAINED: None.In support of their opposition, Plaintiffs advance the declaration of Person Most Knowledgeable, Ramin M. Roohipour, M.D. Defendants NRC/UTU Health and Welfare Plan and Highmark Blue Cross Blue Shield object to the entire declaration. The Court rules on Defendants NRC/UTU Health and Welfare Plan and Highmark Blue Cross Blue Shield’s objections as follows:OVERRULED: 1-26SUSTAINED: None.STATEMENT OF FACTSPlaintiffs are medical providers involved in providing minimally invasive bariatric surgery. (Roohipour Decl. ¶ 1.) Although plaintiffs will treat patients when plaintiffs do not have a relationship with a patient’s healthcare insurer, it is their custom and practice to confirm that a patient has insurance and to identify the terms of said insurance prior to providing care. (Id. at ¶ 13.) The arrangements plaintiffs make with a patient will depend on the insurance coverage that a patient has. (Id. at ¶ 17.)Highmark is a company that provides third-party claim administration services for various health insurance providers. (Undisputed Material Fact (hereinafter “UMF”) Nos. 3-4.)1 Highmark provides such services to defendant NRC/UTU Health and Welfare Plan. (UMF Nos. 4,6.) Plaintiffs do not have any written contract with either Highmark or NRC/UTU. (UMF Nos. 1-2.) However, the patient involved in this action (hereinafter “Patient”) is a dependent of a subscriber to the NRC/UTU Plan. (UMF No. 7.)Before agreeing to provide medical services to the Patient, a plaintiffs’ representative called defendants to verify the Patient’s eligibility for insurance coverage. (Roohipour Decl. ¶ 18.) On September 1, 2020, plaintiffs’ representative called Highmark and spoke to three different employees in succession; the first was “Darius.” (UMF Nos. 10,19.) Once plaintiff’s agent identified herself and the patient about whom she was calling, “Darius” stated: “And it’s showing here that I am not authorized to view the record of this patient. But no worries, ma’am because I’m going to transfer you to our dedicated department that handled this member ID number. I have here the phone number in case the call got disconnected…” (Decl. Hyun, Exh. 2(a), 2:18-23; UMF No. 10.) After being transferred, plaintiff spoke with “Aisha” who, after being given the patient’s information, stated: “Okay, this patient works for the National Railroad Group and this is a dedicated group so I will have to transfer you over to that area, okay?” (Decl. Hyun, Exh. 3(a), 1:13-15; UMF No. 11.)After speaking with Aisha, plaintiffs’ representative, “Tina,” spoke to “Brandy” who was able to answer questions about the patient in question. (UMF No. 12.) The following exchange then occurred:Brandy: And how can I help you today?Tina: I am calling for benefits for this patient. [Redacted] has hyperhidrosis and is coming to our facility for a consultation and I’m wondering if the patient has out-of-network benefits for hyperhidrosis.Brandy: Do you have the diagnosis code and I can make sure that it’s an eligible diagnosis code?Tina: Sure. I have a general code because we haven’t seen the patient yet, but it’s R61 and I actually do have a procedure code as well.Brandy: Okay.Tina: The CPT code is 32664.Brandy: Okay. I’m showing we’re the only insurance on file. Now I do have to state that verification of benefits is not a guarantee of coverage or payment. All services are subject to medical necessity, contract exclusions and eligibility at the time the service is rendered. Medical policies can be found for your reference on the provider resource center and on www.evircore.com. Those go over limitations, exclusions, all that fun stuff.Tina: Okay. And could you spell Evicore?Brandy: E-V-I-C-O-R-E.Tina: Okay, thank you.Brandy: You’re welcome. Now I am showing for that procedure code when done outpatient there would be no authorization required. I am showing that is an eligible diagnosis code. Thus, in general, the plan does not exclude it.Tina: Okay.Brandy: So everything is just subject to medical necessity. There are out-of-network benefits.Tina: Okay.Brandy: Benefit period runs on a calendar here.Tina: Okay.Brandy: For out-of-network, eligible services would be subject to a $700.00 deductible. Once the deductible has been met, we would consider eligible services at 70% of the allowed amount.Tina: Okay.Brandy: Up to a $4000 out-of-pocket. That out-of-pocket does not include the deductible.Tina: Okay.Brandy: But once the out-of-pocket has been met, we would consider eligible services at 100% of the allowed amount.Tina: Okay.Brandy: And I am showing nothing has been met towards either the deductible or the out-of-pocket.Tina: Okay, okay. I think that’s it. Gosh, you were very thorough. Thank you so much. I appreciate that.Brandy: You’re welcome. Anything else at all I can help with?Tina: No.(Decl. Hyun, Exh. 3(a), 2:22-4:18; UMF Nos. 11,13,14.)Thereafter, on October 8, 2020, another of plaintiffs’ agents called Highmark about the Patient. (Roohipour Decl. ¶ 20.) During that call, plaintiffs’ agent, “Liz,” spoke to defendants’ agent, “Sandy.” After identifying the “doctor’s NPI” and the patient’s name and date of birth, the following conversation occurred:Sandy: Okay. And is it in- or outpatient services?Liz: So it’s going to be an outpatient service.Sandy: Okay. What procedure codes can I check?Liz: 32664 modifier 50. And if you can’t do a modifier, then it’ll be times two.Sandy: Okay. One moment. I’ll check.Liz: Thank you.Sandy: For the code 32664, I show that no prior auth shall be required. They have an opt-out group. So, we just advise to check benefits.Liz: Say that one more time.Sandy: There’s no prior authorization required for the code 32664. They have an opt-out group. So, we just advise to check their benefits.Liz: Okay. Now, so you said there’s no authorization required, but I have to check their benefits?Sandy: Yes.Liz: Okay. And I have to check their benefits – okay. And then does it show if – so you don’t need an ICD 10 code or nothing, correct? Because there’s no auth required?Sandy: Right. So, I would just check benefits just to make sure it would be a covered service under their plan -Liz: Okay.Sandy: - so if they have any out-of-pocket expenses related to the procedure.Liz: Just check benefits. Okay. Just check benefits to see – to see if it’s a covered plan, you said?Sandy: Yes.Liz: If it’s a covered plan. Okay.(Decl. Hyun, Exh. 4(a), 2:4-3:7; UMF No. 17.)On October 23, 2020, plaintiffs provided medical services, specifically hyperhidrosis surgery, to the Patient. (UMF No. 9.) Thereafter, plaintiffs submitted claims to the defendants, seeking $85,000 for the primary surgeon, $70,000 for an assistant surgeon, and $40,000 for anesthesia, as well as a facilities claim in the amount of $300,000. (Roohipour Decl. ¶ 21, 33.) In November of 2020, defendants issued payments on plaintiffs’ claims in the amount of $597.77 for anesthesia, and $1,229.77 for the surgeon. (Roohipour Decl. ¶ 22-23.) Defendants declined plaintiffs’ assistant surgeon and facilities claims. (Id. at ¶ 27, 34.)LEGAL AUTHORITYThe function of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) The Code of Civil Procedure § 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue asto any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)As to each cause of action as framed by the complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to show “that one or more elements of the cause of action ... cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(2); see also Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.)Once the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) However, “responsive evidence that gives rise to no more than mere speculation cannot be regarded as substantial and is insufficient to establish a triable issue of material fact.” (Sangster v. Paetkau, supra, 68 Cal.App.4th at 163.)DISCUSSIONDefendants NRC/UTU Health and Welfare Plan (hereinafter “NRC/UTU”) and Highmark Blue Cross Blue Shield (hereinafter “Highmark”) move for an order granting summary judgment or in the alternative, summary adjudication, in their favor and against Plaintiffs. This motion is made on the grounds that no triable issue of material fact exists as to any cause of action against Defendants. In the alternative, Defendants move for summary adjudication as to each cause of action.A. First Cause of Action for Breach of Oral ContractThe Complaint alleges an oral contract existed between the parties, whereby Defendants and their agents represented that Plaintiffs would be paid for services rendered to patient at the rate of 70% of the allowable amount. (Id. at ¶ 42.) The Complaint also alleges Defendants breached the oral agreement by underpaying the MD Inc. primary surgeon and anesthesiologist fee claims. (Id. at ¶ 46.) The Complaint then alleges Defendants further breached the oral agreement by completely denying and failing to pay anything for the MD Inc. assistant surgeon fee claim or the R&R facility fee claim. (Id.) Lastly, the Complaint alleges Defendants’ aforementioned conduct caused Plaintiffs to suffered actual damages and will continue to suffer in the future, damages under the oral agreement. (Id. at ¶ 47.)“The elements of a breach of oral contract cause are: (1) existence of the contract; (2) the plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance; (3) the defendant’s breach; and (4) damages to the plaintiff as a result of the breach.” (Aton Center, Inc. v. United Healthcare Ins. Co. (2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 1214, 1230 (Anton Center).) “Every contract requires consenting parties[;] [h]owever, there need not be a subjective meeting of the minds…the outward manifestation or expression of consent is controlling.” (1 Witkin Sum. of Calif. Law §116.) “Determining whether a particular communication reasonably constitutes an express offer requires an examination of the words used by the purported offeror as well as the circumstances surrounding the offer.” “When an insurer merely provides information about a prospective patient’s health care plan in response to a provider's inquiries, this does not, on its own, amount to a promise to pay[;] [b]ut when…the insurer goes further and tells the provider it will pay the provider for a particular patient’s treatment, the insurer may be found to have extended such an offer or promise because such words reasonably signal an intent to transact.” (Aton Center, supra, 93 Cal.App.5th at 1235-1236 (emphasis in original.)Defendants argue Plaintiffs’ first cause of action for breach of oral contract fails because (1) the Highmark employees had no authority to enter into a contract on behalf of any Defendants and (2) no contract was formed. (UMF No. 21.) Defendants contend the job of the Highmark representatives that Plaintiffs spoke to was to merely provide preliminary information about a particular member or subscriber’s insurance benefits and that they cannot make any determinations or commitmentsabout whether, or at what rate, services provided to a member will be paid. (UMF 20.) Moreover, Defendants contend the Highmark representatives did not say anything that would cause Plaintiffs to believe that they possessed authority to contract. Rather, Highmark’s representative specifically told Plaintiffs that information about Patient’s benefits “is not a guarantee of coverage or payment.” (UMF No. 13.) Defendants assert there was never a discussion, let alone an agreement, as to what “allowed amount” meant or how it would be derived to support any inference of a mutual assent to a material price term. (UMF No. 15.) Defendants also assert Plaintiffs did not communicate the rates or what they believed to be the “allowed amount” for the services they intended to render to the Patient. (UMF No. 16.) In support of their position, defendants provided the calls at issue. (Decl. Hyun, Exh. 2(a),3(a),4(a).)Here, Defendants have met their initial burden of proof that a genuine issue of material fact does not exist as to whether Highmark employees had authority to bind Defendants and that a contract was formed. Defendants proffered the audio recordings and accompanying transcripts of calls between Plaintiffs and Highmark representatives, which make clear that the calls were for pre-verification and Plaintiffs were made aware that the verification of benefits was not a guarantee of coverage or payment.The burden now shifts to Plaintiffs to show that a triable issue or one or more material facts do exist as to whether Highmark employees had authority to bind Defendants and that a contract was formed.In opposition, Plaintiffs argue Highmark was acting as an agent of NRC/UTU in its role as the third-party administrator and that they reasonably believed that once transferred to Highmark’s dedicated department for NRC/UTU employees they were speaking to a representative with authority to discuss and make representations on behalf of Defendants about this Patient’s coverage and payment terms for services because the first two representatives said they were not authorized to do so. (SSMF Nos. 4, 6, 10-12, 21.) Plaintiffs argue the evidence shows that their representative, Tina, told Defendants’ representative, Brandy, that she was calling for out-of-network benefits for the Patient who was coming into Plaintiffs’ facility for hyperhidrosis and that Brandy confirmed the treatment would be covered. (SSMF No. 12.) Additionally, Plaintiffs argue that Brandy’s statement to Tina that there were out-of-network benefits subject to medical necessity, creates a triable issue of material fact as to whether payment at the represented rate was conditional upon medicalnecessity of the proposed procedure. Finally, Plaintiffs argue with regards to payment terms for the services, Brandy quoted the rate of the “allowed amount” and without any further qualification, the usual and customary rate is the default payment methodology used. (SSMF 15.) As such, Plaintiffs contend conflicting inferences can be drawn as to whether a contract between Defendants and Plaintiffs was formed.In reply, Defendants argue the call recordings conclusively show no contract was formed because there is no evidence that Brandy ever used any words that could have objectively manifested a contractual offer or promise of payment or conveyed an intent to enter a contract. Defendants further argue there is no evidence of any discussion of a facility service or any evidence to support a history of dealing sufficient to establish mutual assent. Defendants also reiterate that Brandy made clear that verification of benefits is not a guarantee of coverage of payment. Finally, Defendants argue that Highmark’s representatives’ characterization of Brandy’s department is irrelevant because ostensible authority of an agent cannot be based solely upon the agent’s conduct and Plaintiffs cite to no evidence of acts by Highmark or NRC/UTU that caused Plaintiffs to believe so.In Plaintiffs’ supplemental opposition, Plaintiffs’ argue Dr. Roohipour is competent to testify to the matters stated in his declaration concerning the medical necessity of the procedure at issue and the pre-services customs and practices of his facility and medical practice. Plaintiffs further argue Roohipour’s deposition testimony shows he has knowledge of pre-service communications with insurance companies based on a history of dealing. Finally, Plaintiffs contend Defendants’ misstate Tina Napora’s deposition testimony because Napora misunderstood the line of questions to refer to whether it was her responsibility during per-service calls to negotiate the rates for in-network contracts, which she clarified in the Errata Sheet submitted after her deposition.Having reviewed the evidence presented by both parties and construing it in the light most favorable to plaintiff, the court presumes that the Highmark employees were acting as agents of NRC/UTU and that Tina Napora (aka “Tina” in Exhibit 3(a)) was empowered to negotiate contracts on behalf of plaintiffs. The court also presumes that “allowable amount” has a particular meaning within the healthcare insurance industry and that a provider given that information could expect reimbursement at a rate higher than would be paid by Medicare. The court finds, and opposing parties conceded at oral hearing, that the sole basis for an oral contract between plaintiffs and defendants is the phone calls, transcribed above, on September 1, 2020, and thereafter on October 8, 2020. The court turns to those calls to determine whether there is any of contract formation therein.Call of September 1, 2020In this call, the court finds that the conversation between Darius and Tina contains no material statements that could form the basis for a contract as a matter of law.The court further finds that the conversation between Aisha and Tina contains no statements that could form the basis for a contract as a matter of law.In the conversation between Brandy and Tina, Tina tells Brandy that she is “calling for benefits for” the Patient who “is coming to our facility for a consultation.” Tina tells Brandy that she has “a general code because we haven’t seen the patient yet.” In response, Brandy tells Tina that they have a contract with the Patient but, “verification of benefits is not a guarantee of coverage or payment” and “all services are subject to medical necessity, contract exclusions and eligibility at the time services are rendered.” Brandy then goes on to say the insurer “would consider eligible services” at various percentages and amounts.The court finds there is no evidence to support plaintiffs’ position that this conversation evidences an oral contract for any particular payment. Defendants’ representative could not have been more clear that she was providing only a verification of benefits in response to an inquiry from a healthcare provider who is anticipating a patient who is “coming…for a consultation” and has not yet been seen. Even in the light most favorable to the opposing party, there is simply no evidence upon which a factfinder could find that a contract had been formed.Call of October 8, 2020In this call, defendants’ agent advises plaintiff that there is no pre-authorization required for the procedure at issue. Then defendants’ agent advises plaintiffs to “check benefits.” When plaintiffs’ agent suggests there in some uncertainty with the information she was given, defendants’ agent repeats: “I would just check benefits just to make sure it would be a covered service under their plan.”At oral argument, plaintiffs assert that this call simply serves to confirm the terms of the agreement entered into on September 1st.Again, the court finds no support for plaintiffs’ position that this conversation either constitutes or confirms an oral contract between the parties.Having reviewed the evidence presented by both parties and construing it in the light most favorable to plaintiff, the court presumes that the Highmark employees were acting as agents of NRC/UTU and that Tina Napora (aka “Tina” in Exhibit 3(a)) was empowered to negotiate contracts on behalf of plaintiffs. The court also presumes that “allowable amount” has a particular meaning within the healthcare insurance industry and that a provider given that information could expect reimbursement at a rate higher than would be paid by Medicare. Finally, the court presumes that plaintiffs’ agents had the subjective belief that defendants were committing themselves to paying the ”usual and customary rate.”The court finds there is no evidence, or reasonable inference therefrom, which would support plaintiffs’ position that the phone calls between the parties created an oral contract. At best, plaintiff “established only that [Highmark] provided plan information in response to [plaintiffs’] inquiries, the very sort of communications that have been held to fall short of forming the basis for an oral contract.” (Anton Center, supra, 93 Cal.App.5th at 1236.) As no contract was formed, there can be no breach.Therefore, Defendants’ motion is GRANTED as to plaintiffs’ cause of action for breach of an oral contract.B. Second Cause of Action for Promissory EstoppelThe Complaint alleges Defendants and their agents represented that out-of-network benefits would be paid at 70% of the allowable rate for the patient. (Compl., ¶ 48.) The Complaint further alleges Defendants should have reasonably expected that Plaintiffs would in fact render services to the patient expecting that payment would not be denied or underpaid, but rather made at the rateverified telephonically prior to the date of service. (Id. at ¶ 51.) The Complaint also alleges Plaintiffs relied on Defendants’ representations and rendered treatment based on that reliance. (Id. at ¶ 52.) The Complaint also alleges Plaintiffs have been damaged in an amount equal to what they should have received had Defendants paid at the represented rate as a direct and proximate result of Defendants’ conduct. (Id. at ¶ 53.)“The elements of a promissory estoppel claim are (1) a promise clear and unambiguous in its terms, (2) reliance by the party to whom the promise is made, (3) the reliance must be both reasonable and foreseeable, and (4) the party asserting the estoppel must be injured by his reliance.” (Jones v. Wachovia Bank (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 935, 945.) “A promise is an indispensable element of the doctrine of promissory estoppel…[it] cannot be invoked and must be held inapplicable in the absence of a showing that a promise had been made upon which the complaining party relied to his prejudice.” (Anton Center, supra, 93 Cal.App.5th at 1244.) The promise must be “clear and unambiguous in its terms” and “cannot be established from preliminary discussions.” (Id.)Defendants argue Plaintiffs’ second cause of action for promissory estoppel fails because no promise of payment was made to Plaintiffs.Here, Defendants have met their initial burden of proof that a genuine issue of material fact does not exist as to whether Defendants made any promise of payment to Plaintiffs. Defendants proffer the same evidence addressed above for the first cause of action.The burden now shifts to Plaintiffs to show that a triable issue or one or more material facts do exist as to whether Defendants made any promise of payment to Plaintiffs. In opposition, Plaintiffs advance the same arguments made in support of the first cause of action.In reply, Defendants reiterates the arguments made in the moving papers.Again, plaintiffs concede that the only basis for this cause of action is the telephone calls made on September 1, 2020, and October 8, 2020. The court finds no facts nor reasonable inferences therefrom to suggest that Defendants made any promise of payment to Plaintiffs for the medical treatment of the Patient. At best, plaintiff can show only that defendants agreed to “consider” payingfor “eligible services” with the caveat that “verification of benefits is not a guarantee of coverage or payment.” The court finds as a matter of law that no reasonable factfinder could find that the statements in the phone calls provided a “clear and unambiguous promise” to pay whatever the plaintiffs billed for their services. As there is no promise, there can be no cause of action for promissory estoppel.Defendants’ motion is GRANTED as to plaintiff’s second cause of action.C. Third and Fourth Causes of Action for Tortious MisrepresentationThe Complaint alleges Defendants represented to Plaintiffs that there were no preauthorization or precertification requirements to satisfy before proceeding with the proposed services and that out-of-network benefits would be paid at 70% of the allowable rate. (Compl., ¶ 56.) The Complaint further alleges Defendants’ representations were false and they either knew that the representations were false or made the representations recklessly and without regards for their truth. (Id. at ¶¶ 57-58.) The Complaint alleges in the alternative that even if Defendants believed that the representations were true at the time they were made, Defendants had no reasonable grounds for believing the representations were true because any information regarding out-of-network benefit rates or prerequisite criteria required by the health plan would be in Defendants’ custody and control. (Id. at ¶ 67.) Plaintiffs allege Defendants intended that Plaintiffs rely on the representations, Plaintiffs reasonably relied on Defendants’ representations, and Plaintiffs’ reliance on Defendants’ intentional misrepresentations was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s harm. (Id. at ¶¶ 59-62.) Finally, the Complaint also alleges as a proximate cause of Defendants’ intentional misrepresentations, Plaintiffs are entitled to damages measured by the market value of services rendered and amounts spent in reliance on Defendants’ false representations and/or failures to disclose. (Id. at ¶ 63.)“The elements of intentional misrepresentation are (1) a misrepresentation, (2) knowledge of falsity, (3) intent to induce reliance, (4) actual and justifiable reliance, and (5) resulting damage.” (Aton Center, supra, (2023) 93 Cal.App.5th at 1245.)“The elements of negligent misrepresentation are (1) the misrepresentation of a past or existing material fact, (2) without reasonable ground for believing it to be true, (3) with intent to induce another’s reliance on the fact mispresented, (4) justifiable reliance on the misrepresentation, and (5) resulting damage.” (Id. at 1245-46.)Defendants argues Plaintiffs’ third and fourth causes of action for tortious misrepresentation fail because (1) they are barred by the economic loss rule and (2) no misrepresentations were made by any Defendant. Defendants contend Plaintiffs intentional misrepresentation claims are premised on the same allegations as their deficient contract-based claims, and Plaintiffs cannot simply repackage their deficient contract claims in terms of fraud and state a viable cause of action. Defendants also contend a party cannot recover in tort for purely economic loss due to disappointed expectations unless they can demonstrate harm above and beyond a broken contractual promise. Similarly, Defendants assert there was no promise made by Defendants to pay Plaintiffs anything and certainly not a specific amount. (UMF No. 14.) Moreover, Defendants assert the allowed amount is based on the Patient’s benefit plan not on Plaintiffs’ uncommunicated and unilateral understanding of the “allowed amount.” (UMF Nos. 22-29.) In addition, Defendants assert Highmark could not have made any representations regarding how much Plaintiffs would be paid for their services because the specific services and facility at which Plaintiffs intended to provide services to the Patient were not discussed on the verification calls. (UMF No. 12.) Finally, Defendants assert Highmark made clear that it was not making any representations regarding what Plaintiffs would be paid. (UMF No. 13.)Here, Defendants have met their initial burden of proof that a genuine issue of material fact does not exist as to whether Defendants made any misrepresentations to Plaintiffs. Defendants proffered audio recordings, accompanying transcripts of Highmark representatives speaking with Plaintiffs and the declaration of Kimberly Bortz. The proffered evidence demonstrates that Defendants made no promise to Plaintiffs regarding a specific amount to be paid and no specific services were discussed during these pre-verification calls.The burden now shifts to Plaintiffs to show that a triable issue or one or more material facts do exist as to whether Defendants made any misrepresentations to Plaintiffs.In opposition, Plaintiffs argue the evidence does demonstrate harm above and beyond a broken contractual promise. Furthermore, Plaintiffs argue whether the economic loss rule applies is a question of fact for the jury. Similarly, Plaintiffs contend whether Defendants made false statements is also a question of fact for the jury. At oral argument, plaintiffs asserted that the term “allowed amount” is a term of art in the health care industry and that defendants knew, or should have known, that by using such a term they caused plaintiffs to make decisions they otherwise would not have made.In reply, Defendants argue Plaintiffs fail to cite any evidence to support they have suffered harm beyond a mere broken contractual promise. Defendants also argue Plaintiffs have not cited to any evidence to support any misrepresentation.Here, Plaintiffs’ proffered the same evidence advanced in support of the first and second causes of action, namely the September 1, 2020, and October 8, 2020 phone calls between the parties’ representatives. The court presumes, for the purposes of this motion, that the term “allowed amount” is a term of art and that plaintiffs and defendants both understood it to mean a higher level of reimbursement than was actually given. Even if the court were to determine that there is evidence to support that presumption, the court cannot ignore the context in which the assertion that “allowed amount” was made. That context precludes the conclusion that the words “allowed amount” created a material misrepresentation. Given that the court finds no material misrepresentation, it matters not whether such a representation was negligently or intentionally made.Therefore, Defendants’ motion is GRANTED as to plaintiffs’ third and fourth causes of action.D. Fifth Cause of Action for Violation of Business and Professions Code § 17200, et seq.The Complaint alleges Business and Professions Code § 17200 prohibits unfair competition, which is defined as “any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice.” (Compl., ¶ 72.) The Complaint further alleges Defendants made misrepresentations of policy terms, benefits promised thereunder and future amounts payable, which constitutes unfair competition within the meaning of Business and Professions Code § 17200, et seq. (Id. at ¶ 73.) The Complaint further alleges theclaims processing employed by Defendants is confusing, designed to cause delay, and constitutes unfair business practices. (Id. at ¶ 74.) The Complaint also alleges pursuant to § 17203, Plaintiffs are entitled to restitution of the money lost by Plaintiffs and/or gained by Defendants as a result of Defendants’ act of unfair competition. (Id. at ¶ 77.) The Complaint also alleges Plaintiffs notified Defendants of their grievances and proposed remedies with regards to the unfair business practices described therein and Defendants failed to respond appropriately. (Id. at ¶ 78.) Thus, the Complaint alleges this Court has discretion to award Plaintiffs attorney fees pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 1021.5. (Id.)Defendants argue Plaintiffs’ fifth cause of action for violation of Business and Professions Code § 17200 fails because Defendant did not engage in any unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent business practices. Defendants further contend Plaintiffs are not entitled to restitution. Moreover, Defendants contend Plaintiffs only seek compensatory damages under this claim, which is not allowed only equitable relief. Defendants also contend Plaintiffs do not allege that they have taken any property in which Plaintiffs have an ownership interest to support restitution. Likewise, Defendants contend Plaintiffs cannot establish Defendants’ conduct constitutes any fraudulent, unlawful or unfair business practice because Defendants adjudicated the claims based on the terms and conditions of the Patient’s benefit plan. Additionally, Defendants assert they did not make any promises to pay a certain amount, much less a percentage of Plaintiff’s billed charges. (UMF Nos. 22-29.) Defendants also assert Plaintiffs do not assert any unlawful conduct nor can they bring a claim under the “unlawful” prong because Plaintiffs assert no borrow law. Last, Defendants assert the evidence only established that Defendants provided communications consistent with the Patient’s plan limits, which refutes Plaintiffs’ claims Defendants engaged in “unfair competition.”Here, Defendants have met their initial burden of proof that a genuine issue of material fact does not exist as to whether (1) this claim is derivative of Plaintiffs’ other deficient claims; (2) Defendants engaged in unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent business act or practice; and (3) Plaintiffs are entitled to restitution. Defendants proffered the declaration of Kimberly Bortz, which showcases that Defendants determined Plaintiffs’ claims based on the terms and conditions of the Patient’s benefit plan.The burden now shifts to Plaintiffs to show that a triable issue or one or more material facts do exist as to whether (1) this claim is derivative of Plaintiffs’ other deficient claims; (2) Defendants engaged in unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent business act or practice; and (3) Plaintiffs are entitled to restitution.In opposition, Plaintiffs argue the evidence shows that Defendants engaged in unlawful, unfair, and /or fraudulent business practices by making misrepresentations of policy terms, benefits promised thereunder, and amounts payable, in violation of California Insurance Code § 780. (SSMF Nos. 22-29.) Plaintiffs further argue the evidence shows that Defendants’ post-service claims processing was confusing and arbitrary because they used contradictory explanations and denial reasons. (Id.) Moreover, Plaintiffs contend Defendants erroneously state the Patient underwent “lung surgery” in post-service communications, which is not accurate and further shows Defendants are not qualified to make statements regarding the medical necessity of the services at issue. Lastly, Plaintiffs assert they can seek restitution damages under Business and Professions Code § 17203 because Defendants are wrongfully retaining payment from Plaintiffs who have an ownership interest through services rendered to the Patient.While plaintiffs make various arguments as to why the denial of the requested reimbursements were improper, their claims under the unfair competition law all hinge on the claims made in their other causes of action. This alone is fatal to this cause of action, as there is a clear and adequate remedy at law for the alleged improper business practices. However, this cause of action also fails as a derivative action to the other counts. As explained above, there is no evidence of a contract between the parties, an enforceable promise, or a material representation by the defendants.Therefore, Defendants’ motion is GRANTED as to this cause of action.CONCLUSIONFor the reasons stated above, defendants’ motion for summary judgment is GRANTED as to both defendants. Defendants are ordered to file a proposed judgment which is consistent with this ruling.IT IS SO ORDERED.