 Case Number:  23PSCP00071    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  82 


 
JAMES CHEN,  


 
 
 
Petitioner,


 
 
 
 
 
Case No.
 


 
 
 
 
 
23PSCP00071




vs.
 
 
STEVEN GORDON, DIRECTOR, CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF
  MOTOR VEHICLES,
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respondent.
 


[TENTATIVE] RULING ON VERIFIED PETITION FOR PEREMPTORY
  WRIT OF MANDATE
 
Dept. 82 (Hon. Curtis A. Kin)
 
 




 


 


 


 



Petitioner
James Chen petitions for a writ of mandate directing respondent Steven Gordon,
Director, California Department of Motor Vehicles to set aside an order
suspending petitioner’s driving privileges. 
 
I.       Factual Background
 
A.          
Arrest
 
On
October 16, 2021, Officer Convento responded to a traffic collision call. (AR
22, 24.) Upon his arrival, he observed petitioner James Chen sitting on the
ground near a vehicle, which had collided into a fence. (AR 24.) The security
guard of the neighborhood told Officer Convento that he assisted petitioner out
of his vehicle prior to Officer Convento’s arrival. (AR 24.) When the security
guard told petitioner that law enforcement was responding, petitioner told him:
“No, I can’t get another DUI.” (AR 24.)
 
While
initially speaking with petitioner, Officer Convento did not observe any odor
of an alcoholic beverage coming from him. (AR 24.) A slight breeze was blowing.
(AR 24.) However, Officer Convento did observe that petitioner had watery eyes.
(AR 24.) When asked, petitioner admitted to drinking. (AR 24.) Based on petitioner’s
statement and Officer Convento’s observations, Officer Convento detained petitioner
pending a driving under the influence of alcohol (“DUI”) investigation. (AR 24.)
Petitioner submitted to a preliminary alcohol screening test but twice provided
insufficient samples. (AR 14.) Officer Convento asked him the initial
observations and pre-Standardized Field Sobriety Tests (“SFST”) investigative
questions. (AR 24.) Before beginning each SFST, petitioner was asked if he had
any medical problems, and he replied that he did not. (AR 24.) Petitioner
performed poorly on the SFSTs. (AR 24-25.) 
 
During
the administration of the SFSTs, the breeze stopped. (AR 25.) Officer Convento
could smell an odor of an alcoholic beverage emitting from petitioner’s breath
and person. (AR 25.) Based on the above, Officer Convento formed the opinion
that petitioner was driving under the influence of alcohol and arrested him for
violating Vehicle Code section 23152(a). (AR 25.) Officer Convento then
transported petitioner to Walnut Sheriff Station. (AR 25.)
 
B.          
Attempts
to Administer Chemical Breath and Blood Test
 
At
Walnut Sheriff Station, petitioner agreed to attempt the chemical breath test. (AR
25.) After two attempts, he failed to provide a sufficient sample. (AR 25.) On
the first attempt, petitioner was not blowing through his mouth. (AR 20.) On
the second attempt, he constantly opened his mouth while blowing. (AR 21.)
Officer Convento transported petitioner to Intercommunity Hospital Covina for
an “OK to book.” (AR 25.) At the hospital, petitioner was examined by a doctor
and given the OK to book. (AR 25.) 
 
While
at the hospital, petitioner refused to give a blood sample, even though he had consented
earlier. (AR 15, 25.) He refused to sign the Blood Test Request by Peace
Officer form. (AR 26.) The form requires the signature of the person being
tested. (AR 26.) Officer Convento transported petitioner back to Walnut Sheriff
Station where he was booked. (AR 25.)
 
C.          
Administrative
Hearing
 
The
administrative hearing took place on October 31, 2022 before the Department of
Motor Vehicles (“Department” or “DMV”). (AR 32.) Hearing Officer Bernal
introduced five exhibits into evidence: Exhibit #1: Age 21 & Older
Officer’s Statement (DS-367); Exhibit #2: Instrument Time Out of the Breath
Alcohol Analysis Reports; Exhibit #3: arrest report; Exhibit #4: Blood Test Request
by Peace Officer; and Exhibit #5: Petitioner’s driving record history print. (AR
34-36.) 
 
On
Exhibit 1, the DS-367 form, Officer Convento did not check the boxes to
indicate that petitioner refused to submit to a chemical test. (AR 14, 16, 18.)
On the reverse side of page 1, Officer Convento checked the boxes indicating
that petitioner consented to a breath test and a blood test. (AR 15.) 
 
With
respect to Exhibit 4, the Blood Test Request by Peace Officer form states that
petitioner was requested to provide a blood sample. (AR 26.)  No signature appears on the “Signature of
Person Being Tested” line. (AR 26.) Officer Convento wrote “Refused to Sign/Draw”
on the Witness line. (AR 26.) 
 
Petitioner
objected to Exhibits 1-4; however, all of the Department’s exhibits were
admitted into evidence over petitioner’s objections. (AR 35-38.) A photograph
of the interior of petitioner’s vehicle, which showed his eyeglasses on the driver’s
seat, was offered by petitioner and admitted into evidence as Exhibit A. (AR
39, 74-75.)
 
At
the administrative hearing, petitioner’s counsel argued that petitioner did not
refuse to submit to a blood test. (AR 50.) Rather, petitioner refused to sign
the Blood Test Request form. (AR 50.) Petitioner testified that he refused to
sign the form because he could not read it and therefore he did not understand
what it was or what he was signing. (AR 44.) He testified that he told Officer Convento
“multiple times” that he could not read the form because he did not have his
glasses but Officer Convento requested that he sign the form. (AR 43-44, 48-49.)
He also asked the nurse for a magnifying glass, but the nurse shook his head. (AR
48.) However, petitioner did not recall whether he asked the nurse or Officer
Convento to read the form to him. (AR 48.)
 
A
decision was issued by the Department on November 4, 2022. (AR 9-13.) Based on
a preponderance of the evidence, the Department concluded that (1) the peace
officer had reasonable cause to believe that petitioner had been driving under
the influence of alcohol; (2) petitioner was lawfully arrested; (3) petitioner
was told that his driving privilege would be suspended or revoked if he refused
to complete the required testing; and (4) petitioner refused or failed to
complete the chemical test or tests after being requested to do so by a peace
officer. (AR 11.) The DMV hearing officer found that petitioner did not refuse but
failed to complete the chemical tests, as petitioner gave an insufficient
sample of his breath and refused to sign the consent form to complete the blood
draw. (AR 10.) The hearing officer gave more weight to the admitted evidence
rather than petitioner’s testimony based on petitioner’s inability to recollect
the events as they occurred. (AR 10.) For example, petitioner did not recall
whether he asked the officer to read the form to him, but he was able to recall
that he asked for a magnifying glass and that he left his glasses in his
vehicle. (AR 10.)
 
The
Department imposed a one-year license suspension, effective November 17, 2022 through
November 16, 2023. (AR 9-13.) Petitioner requested a departmental review, which
upheld the suspension on December 15, 2022. (AR 6.) 
 
II.      Procedural History
 
            On
February 7, 2023, petitioner James Chen filed a Verified Petition for Peremptory
Writ of Mandate. On September 28, 2023, respondent Steve Gordon, Director of
the California Department of Motor Vehicles filed an Answer. 
 
            On
November 27, 2023, petitioner filed an opening brief. On December 14, 2023, respondent
filed an opposition. Petitioner did not file a reply.  The Court has received the administrative
record lodged by petitioner. 
 
III.     Standard of Review
 
Under CCP section 1094.5(b), the pertinent issues
are whether the respondent has proceeded without jurisdiction, whether there
was a fair trial, and whether there was a prejudicial abuse of discretion. An
abuse of discretion is established if the agency has not proceeded in the
manner required by law, the decision is not supported by the findings, or the
findings are not supported by the evidence. (CCP § 1094.5(b).) “[T]he
party challenging the administrative decision bears the burden of convincing
the court that the administrative findings are contrary to the weight of the
evidence.” (Fukuda v. City of Angels (1999) 20 Cal.4th 805, 817; see
also Bixby v. Pierno (1971) 4 Cal.3d 130, 139.)
 
When a driver petitions for a writ of mandate
following an order suspending his or her driver’s license, the trial court is
required to determine, based on its independent judgment, whether the weight of
the evidence supports the administrative decision. (Lake v. Reed (1997)
16 Cal.4th 448, 456.) Under the
independent judgment test, “the trial court not only examines the
administrative record for errors of law, but also exercises its independent
judgment upon the evidence disclosed in a limited trial de novo.” (Bixby, 4 Cal.3d at 143.) The Court must draw its own reasonable
inferences from the evidence and make its own credibility determinations. (Morrison v. Housing Authority of the City of
Los Angeles Board of Commissioners (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 860, 868.)  However, “[i]n exercising its independent judgment, a trial court must afford a
strong presumption of correctness concerning the administrative findings, and
the party challenging the administrative decision bears the burden of
convincing the court that the administrative findings are contrary to the
weight of the evidence.” (Fukuda, 20
Cal.4th at 817, internal quotations omitted.)
 
A reviewing court “will not act as counsel for
either party … and will not assume the task of initiating and prosecuting a
search of the record for any purpose of discovering errors not pointed out in
the briefs.” (Fox v. Erickson (1950) 99 Cal.App.2d 740, 742.) The court
cannot evaluate arguments that are not made in the briefs and cannot make the
parties’ arguments for them. (Nelson v. Avondale HOA (2009) 172
Cal.App.4th 857, 862-63 [argument waived if not raised]; Pfeifer v.
Countrywide Home Loans, Inc. (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th 1250, 1282 [same].)
 
“Evidence Code section 664, which presumes that an
official duty has been regularly performed, has been widely applied to DMV
administrative hearings.” (Petricka v. Department of Motor Vehicles
(2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 1341, 1348.) “[I]n an administrative hearing, ‘[a]ny
relevant evidence shall be admitted if it is the sort of evidence on which
responsible persons are accustomed to rely in the conduct of serious
affairs....’ [Citations.] ‘A police officers report, even if unsworn, constitutes
‘the sort of evidence on which responsible persons are accustomed to rely in
the conduct of serious affairs….’” (MacDonald v. Gutierrez (2004) 32
Cal.4th 150, 158-159.)
 
IV.     Analysis
 
            Petitioner
seeks to set aside the administrative decision of the DMV to suspend his
driving privileges. Petitioner contends that he never refused to have his blood
drawn for a chemical test. Rather, petitioner argues that he did not have his
eyeglasses and therefore was unable to read the Blood Test Request by Peace
Officer form.[1]
(OB ¶¶ 26, 41, 42, 54.) 
 
A.   Implied Consent Law
 
            When
a person is lawfully arrested for driving under the influence of alcohol, they
are deemed to have consented to the chemical testing of their blood or breath
to determine their blood alcohol content. (Veh. Code § 23612(a)(1)(A).)
Refusing to submit to, or failing to complete, a chemical test offered under
Section 23612 is punishable by the suspension of the person’s driving
privileges, among other sanctions. (Veh. Code § 13353(a)(1).) The officer must
tell the arrestee that failure to submit to, or complete, the chemical test
will result in a fine and suspension or revocation of driving privileges. (Veh.
Code § 23612(a)(1)(D).)
 
            “If
the driver refuses to complete [a chemical test], his driving privilege is
subject to suspension. There is a strong public policy against the nightmare of
drunk driving. Thus, the implied consent law should be liberally construed to
effect its purpose, which is to swiftly and accurately identify drunk drivers.
(Carrey v. Department of Motor Vehicles (1986) 183 Cal.App.3d 1265,
1270.) “Consent which is not clear and unambiguous may be deemed a refusal. The
determinative factor as to whether there is a refusal is not the arrestee’s
subjective state of mind, but rather the objective, fair meaning to be
distilled from his words and conduct.” (Ibid.)
 
B.   Merits
 
A
person arrested for driving under the influence of alcohol must submit to and
complete a test to determine blood alcohol content. (Carrey, 183
Cal.App.3d at1270.) The person may choose the type of test to which they will
submit. (Ibid.) However, if the person cannot complete the chosen test,
the person must choose and complete another. (Ibid.) 
 
Petitioner
submitted to a chemical breath test, but plaintiff twice provided an
insufficient sample. (AR 20-21, 25.) Accordingly, petitioner was obligated to
complete a different type of chemical test.
 
In
the arrest report, Officer Convento indicated that petitioner refused to give a
blood sample. (AR 25.) Under Evidence Code § 664, “[i]t is presumed that
official duty has been regularly performed.” (Evid. Code § 664.) A police
officer has an official duty to make accurate statements. (Fisk v.
Department of Motor Vehicles (1981) 127 Cal.App.3d 72, 79.) 
            
Even
though the arrest report is unsworn, it was admissible during the DMV hearing
as the sort of evidence typically relied upon. (MacDonald v. Gutierrez
(2004) 32 Cal.4th 150, 158-59 [“[S]o long as a sworn report is filed, it is
consistent with the relaxed evidentiary standards of an administrative per se
hearing that technical omissions of proof can be corrected by an unsworn report
filed by the arresting officer”]; AR 14-19 [DS-367 Officer’s Statement is
sworn].) Accordingly, petitioner needed to demonstrate that Officer Convento’s
statement that petitioner did not consent to the chemical blood test was
inaccurate. 
 
            Petitioner argues that he never refused
to have his blood drawn for a chemical test. Petitioner contends that, in the
DS-367 form, Officer Convento did not check the boxes that indicated that he
refused any chemical test. (AR 14, 16, 18.) Petitioner also refers to the
reverse side of page 1 of the DS-367 form where Officer Convento indicated that
petitioner agreed to submit to a breath and blood test. (AR 15.) Petitioner
argues that he refused to sign the blood test request form because he did not
have his eyeglasses, which were on the driver’s seat of petitioner’s vehicle.
(AR 29, 39, 41, 42, 44, 48, 49.) Petitioner maintains that his refusal to sign
the blood test request form was not his refusal to have his blood tested. 
 
            Petitioner’s assertions are insufficient
to demonstrate that he is not responsible for failing to submit to a blood draw.
The indication of petitioner’s initial consent to a blood test on the DS-367
form is not inconsistent with Officer Convento’s assertion on the arrest report
that petitioner ultimately refused to give a blood sample despite having
consented at an earlier time. (AR 15, 25.) 
 
            Concerning petitioner’s purported
inability to read the blood test request form, it is true that “[a] person who
is…in a condition rendering him or her incapable of refusal is deemed not to
have withdrawn his or her consent and a test or tests may be administered
whether or not the person is told that his or her failure to submit to, or the
noncompletion of, the test or tests will result in the suspension or revocation
of his or her privilege to operate a motor vehicle.” (Veh. Code § 23612(a)(5).)  Thus, “a driver may defend in an
implied-consent hearing by proof of lack of capacity to refuse a test….” (Hughey
v. Department of Motor Vehicles (1991) 235 Cal.App.3d 752, 755 [analyzing Vehicle
Code § 23157(a)(5), renumbered to § 23612(a)(5)].) “If, in what we perceive to
be an infrequent case, the driver is able to convince a trier of fact that he
or she was incapable of refusing a test for reasons unconnected with the
consumption of alcohol, the statute contemplates a restoration of the driver’s
license…” (Id. at 762.)
 
            Here, petitioner’s evidence of not
having his glasses is insufficient to demonstrate he was rendered incapable of
refusing the test.  Petitioner’s
testimony that he could not read the form without his glasses was entirely
self-serving,[2]
and petitioner presented no other evidence that he was incapable of reading or
otherwise understanding the contents of the blood test request form.  Under the circumstances—where petitioner had
stated he would consent to a blood draw and, in the presence of the nurse and
officer, is asked to sign a consent form immediately prior to the blood draw—it
is simply not credible that petitioner did not know or understand why his
signature was required and what his refusal to sign the form meant.  Indeed, petitioner’s admission of at least
one prior driving under the influence encounter (see AR 16 [“No, I can’t
get another DUI”]) suggests he was well familiar with the process and what
would be required of him.  Further,
insofar as one were to credit the claim petitioner could not read the form due
to lack of eyeglasses, as observed by the hearing officer, petitioner could
have asked the officer to read and/or explain the form to him. (AR 10.)  
 
The
Court thus finds that petitioner’s refusal to sign the blood test request form was
a knowing failure to do what was required in order to effectuate the required chemical
blood test. (See Carrey v. Department of Motor Vehicles (1986) 183
Cal.App.3d 1265, 1271 [refusal to sign medical consent form found to be “the
pragmatic equivalent of a refusal to consent to the procedure involved”].) Even
if petitioner were willing to submit to the blood test, such willingness “was
meaningless in absence of his signature on the [consent] form.” (Ibid. [“Consent
which is not clear and unambiguous may be deemed a refusal”].) 


Accordingly,
the weight of the evidence supports the finding that petitioner refused to do
what was needed for him to give a blood sample as required by law.  Under Vehicle Code § 13353(a)(1), petitioner’s
failure to submit to or complete the required chemical test justifies the suspension
of his driving privileges for one year. 
 
            In the petition, petitioner requests
attorney fees pursuant to Government Code § 800. (Pet. at 18:10-23.) Under the
statute, complainants who demonstrate that findings in an administrative
proceeding were the result of arbitrary or capricious action by a public entity
may collect reasonable attorney’s fees not exceeding $7,500. For the reasons
stated above, the administrative findings were not arbitrary. Petitioner is not
entitled to attorney’s fees. 
 
V.      Conclusion
 
The petition for writ of mandate is DENIED.
Pursuant to Local Rule 3.231(n), respondent Steve Gordon, Director of the
Department of Motor Vehicles shall prepare, serve, and ultimately file a
proposed judgment.


