 Case Number:  23SMCV00516    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  I The court remains flummoxed by the parties’ seeming
unwillingness to cooperate here.  Plaintiff,
who is self-represented, has not really understood that there are rules that
plaintiff must follow, even though plaintiff has no lawyer.  Defendant, though, is hiding behind
technicalities in what appears to be an effort to obfuscate rather than
cooperate. 
 
The court will therefore CONTINUE this hearing until a date
in late December.  Prior to that time,
the court will hold an informal discovery conference to try and see if an
agreement can be reached on this stuff. 
Five court days before the IDC, the parties will submit a JOINT
statement not to exceed 8 pages in length, excluding the caption page, on
pleading paper (28 lines per page).  Each
side will be allowed to use 4 pages to present that side’s position on the
outstanding issues.  The court will
discuss the IDC date with the parties.
 
The court warns plaintiff that the discovery demands need to
be clear and unambiguous.  The court
warns the defense that hyper technical positions about different entities could
be a tactical mistake.  There are
concerns about which the defense should be worried that relate to discovery
(especially financial discovery) aimed at proving alter ego assertions, as well
as limitations at trial.  For example,
since Solis is a human and defendant has a duty of inquiry in responding to
discovery as well as a duty to produce documents in defendant’s possession,
custody, OR control, Solis might be precluded from testifying as to any facts
or circumstances not disclosed in discovery on the ground that defendant lacks
knowledge or information or producing any such documents at trial.  The point being that if defendant wants to
take a hard line it will be too late at trial for defendant to then suddenly
offer any evidence, which will make it harder to prevail.  Alter ego discovery could involve a full and
detailed examination of all of Solis’ financials at any institution at which
Solis or an entity Solis controls is on the account.  Because alter ego is such a factual inquiry,
it is not clear that the court would allow any redactions or limits.  Option B, of course, is to cooperate in this
and get the discovery done.