 Case Number:  23SMCV00409    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion to compel defendant’s deposition 
 
This is a family dispute involving real property.  On November 30, 2023, plaintiff served a
notice of deposition for defendant.  The
deposition was set for January 24, 2024. 
Defendant, however, objected, in part because defendant lives in Egypt
and therefore the deposition needs to be carefully coordinated.  While defendant objected to the January 24,
2024, date, defense counsel did not suggest an alternative.  On March 21, 2024, plaintiff’s counsel sent
defense counsel an email suggesting three dates for the deposition.  Defense counsel stated that those dates did
not work, but provided no alternatives. 
Plaintiff’s counsel asked for available dates and on April 2, 2024,
defense counsel suggested a date in August 2024—the delay being due to
“embezzlement issues” in Egypt that were still ongoing.  Plaintiff did not want to wait that long,
however, and did not believe that any embezzlement issues were relevant.  On April 11, 2024, defense counsel suggested
June 26, 2024 for the deposition. 
Plaintiff agreed, and sent out a notice of deposition for that date.  However, on June 17, 2024, defense counsel
told plaintiff’s counsel that he had COVID and needed to continue the
deposition.  Plaintiff’s counsel agreed
and asked for alternative dates.  Defense
counsel said his client was busy until September 25, 2024.  Plaintiff, fed up with the repeated delays,
brought this motion, which was filed on July 1, 2024.  Plaintiff contends that defendant is just
delaying the deposition.  The court
assumes that had defendant been willing to prioritize this case such that a July
date would work, plaintiff would not have brought this motion.  Defense counsel, after the motion was filed,
wrote back and suggested September 18, 2024. 
Plaintiff’s counsel did not respond to that overture, even though
defense counsel was willing to sign a stipulated order that the deposition go
forward on that date in order to moot the instant motion.  Not having heard back, defense counsel
reiterated the September 18, 2024, proposal by way of an email dated August 15,
2024.  But plaintiff still did not
respond.   
 
The court is somewhat frustrated.  Neither side acted fully appropriately.  The court can well understand plaintiff’s
irritation with this process.  The first
deposition notice was issued on November 30, 2023.  The date ultimately proposed by defense
counsel was June 26, 2024—five months after the original proposed date and with
no great justification for the delay. 
Then, when the date finally drew near, defense counsel got sick and
demanded another three month delay without any explanation as to why so much
time was needed.  (The court understands
that the deposition had to be postponed, and plaintiff’s counsel does not fault
defendant for postponing the deposition due to the illness.)  On the other hand, when defendant finally did
propose a date—first September 25, 2024, and later September 18, 2024,
plaintiff did not take defendant up on it, but rather continued filing and
pressing this motion.
 
Defendant has to step up the game.  If defendant needs a long delay, defendant
needs to explain the reason.  The failure
to do so did lead to an inordinate delay in this process.  The court understands the COVID issue, but
the court does not understand the three months after that.  Plaintiff, on the other hand, should have
mooted this out with the September 18, 2024, offer.  The court is somewhat surprised that it took
two and a half months to get on the court’s discovery motion calendar, but once
the offer was made to have the deposition go forward before the hearing,
plaintiff should have accepted the date, perhaps leaving open the sanctions
issue if it could not be worked out. 
(Or, if September 18, 2024, did not work for plaintiff, then the parties
should have met and conferred.)
 
Generally, one would think that the parties would pick up
the phone and talk with one another and just get dates.  But in the alternative, a letter exchange
should be appropriate but with greater priority than defendant was willing to
give.  Further, the court is not sure
that September 18, 2024, would have gone forward had the motion not been filed.
 
Under the circumstances, if the deposition actually went
forward, then the motion is MOOT other than sanctions.  If not, then the motion is GRANTED.  In that case, defendant may, no later than
Monday, September 23, 2024, at noon (all dates and times are pacific time) list
three dates not earlier than October 9, 2024, and not later than October 30,
2024.  If the dates are not provided in a
timely way, defendant waives the right to give the dates.  Plaintiff may, no later than Wednesday,
September 25, 2024, at noon, pick the deposition date, which must be a work day
that is not a court holiday and shall not be one of the three dates defendant
gave and shall be not earlier than October 9, 2024, and not later than October
30, 2024.  The deposition will go forward
starting on the chosen day at 10:00 am and continue until 5:30 pm with a one
hour lunch break and a 15 minute afternoon break.  If the deposition does not conclude on the
first day, it will continue from day to day until completed, weekends, court
holidays, and the days previously designated by defendant excepted.  Any documents demanded (and the document
demand cannot be greater than the demand in the most recent deposition notice,
if any) will be in plaintiff’s counsel’s hands no later than 2 court days
before the deposition.  If defendant
objects to any category, the objection will be served no later than noon on
September 23, 2024.  The parties may
change this procedure by written agreement. 
The deposition will be remote.
 
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is DENIED.  Frankly, the court believes that sanctions
are appropriate in the sense that defendant should have done more.  What the court does not know, because no one
briefed it or raised it, is what the rules are for deposing a party in a
foreign country.  The court is not
convinced that such can be accomplished without stipulation by way of a
California deposition notice.  Because
the parties have agreed to the deposition, that issue is not before the
court.  The parties have agreed and the
agreement will be enforced.  But whether
sanctions are appropriate in that regard is a harder question.  Because of that uncertainty, the sanctions
request is denied.