  Case Number:  23STCV13765    Hearing Date:   January 26, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
1-26-24
3Case
#: 2STCV13765
Trial
Date: Not Set
 
DEMURRER TO THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant, General Motors, LLC
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Garrett Matsunaga
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Demurrer
to the Fist Amended Complaint
·        
1st
Cause of Action: Fraud – Concealment
·        
2nd
Cause of Action: Violations of Business & Professions Code section 17200
 
Motion
to Strike the Claim for Punitive Damages
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
On
July 6, 2018, plaintiff Garrett Matsunaga leased a Chevrolet Bolt vehicle, with
defects in the battery and front seat belt pretensioner. On June 14, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a complaint for Fraud – Concealment, Negligent
Misrepresentation, Violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200, Violation
of Song Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty, Violation of Song-Beverly Act
– Breach of Implied Warranty, and Violation of Song Beverly Act –Civil Code
section 1793.2, subdivision (b). On October 26, 2023, the court sustained the
demurrer to the first, second and third causes of action based on the unopposed
argument under the statute of limitations, and on the opposed argument for lack
of sufficient factual particularity. The court also granted the motion to
strike. 
 
On
November 15, 2023, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint for Fraud –
Concealment, Violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200,
Violation of Song Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty, Violation of
Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Implied Warranty, and Violation of Song Beverly
Act –Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision (b).
 
RULING
Demurrer:
Overruled.
General
Motors, LLC (GM) brings the subject demurer to the first and second causes of
action for Fraud – Concealment and Violations of Business & Professions
Code section 17200 in the first amended complaint on grounds that the first and
second causes of action are barred by the statute of limitations, and lacks facts
in support of the claims. Plaintiff counters that the causes of action were
both timely filed and sufficiently pled. GM in reply reiterates the statute of
limitations bar, and lack of factual basis. 
 
A
demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from
either the face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take
judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading
“by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law . . . .” ’ ” (Berkley v.
Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the
court liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th
726, 733.)
 
“A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly
construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because
ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616; Williams v.
Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139 [“[U]nder our liberal pleading rules, where the
complaint contains substantive factual allegations sufficiently apprising
defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for uncertainty
should be overruled or plaintiff given leave to amend.]
 
The
operative complaint relies on allegations that GM failed to disclose a known
defect in the battery system within the vehicle at the time of the lease, of
which Plaintiff only discovered upon a November 13, 2020, vehicle recall
announcement for the vehicle. Additional recalls on the battery system and
seatbelt pretensioner occurred on July 23, 2021, and December 15, 2022,
respectively.
 
1st
Cause of Action: Fraud – Concealment
GM
challenges the fraud – concealment cause of action on grounds of the three-year
statute of limitations and insufficient factual particularity. 
 
The
statute of limitation on a fraud claim is three years with accrual only upon
acquiring “knowledge of facts sufficient to make a reasonably prudent person
suspicious of fraud, thus putting him on inquiry.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 338,
subd. (d); Vega v. Jones, Day, Reavis & Pogue (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th
282, 298 accord Hobart v. Hobart Estate Co. (1945) 26 Cal.2d 412, 437.)
GM relies on the allegation in the operative complaint regarding the delivery
of a defective vehicle on July 6, 2018, with the complaint not filed until June
14, 2022. [First Amend. Comp., ¶ 10.] Plaintiff concedes to taking possession
of the defective vehicle in 2018, but only first discovered any defects upon
the first recall on November 13, 2020. [First Amend. Comp., ¶ 18.]
 
For
purposes of the demurrer, the court finds the allegations sufficiently
articulate the delayed discovery of the defects no earlier than November 13,
2020 via the recall notice, with the complaint subsequentl filed less than
three years from the date of said first recall. The court is required to accept
the allegations in the complaint as true. 
Although the arguments in the reply may have merit, the court may not consider
the new argument submitted in the reply regarding the accrual of the statute of
limitations on July 6, 2018. The argument apparently relies on other indicators
constituting a form of inquiry notice, which constitutes inference beyond the four
corners of the operative pleading. The court overrules the demurrer as to the
statute of limitations.  This issue may
be more properly addressed via summary judgment.
 
GM
next challenges the lack of sufficient factual particularity on the fraud claim,
including any identification of a GM representative responsible for concealing
said material information, thereby inducing reliance. Plaintiff maintains the
cause of action is both properly pled, and no additional heightened pleading
standards apply regarding specific identification of a GM representative.
 
“[T]he elements of
a cause of action for fraud based on concealment are: (1) the
defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the
defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff,
(3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed the
fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been
unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of
the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or
suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.” (Bank of America Corp. v. Superior
Court (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 862, 870 [internal quotations omitted]; Marketing West, Inc. v. Sanyo Fisher (USA)
Corp. (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 603, 612–613.)
 
“‘Active concealment or
suppression of facts by a nonfiduciary “is the equivalent of a false
representation, i.e., actual fraud.” [Citation.] (Citation).)’
A fraud claim based upon the suppression or concealment of a material
fact must involve a defendant who had a legal duty to disclose the fact.
(Civ.Code, § 1710, subd. (3) [a deceit includes “[t]he suppression of a fact,
by one who is bound to disclose it, or who gives information of other facts
which are likely to mislead for want of communication of that fact”];
Citation.)” (Hoffman v. 162 North Wolfe
LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 1178, 1186.) “A plaintiff's burden in
asserting a fraud claim against a corporate employer is even greater. In such a
case, the plaintiff must ‘allege the names of the persons who made the
allegedly fraudulent representations, their authority to speak, to whom they
spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written.’” (Lazar v. Superior Court, (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)
 
“There
are ‘four circumstances in which nondisclosure or concealment may constitute
actionable fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with
the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts
not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively conceals a material
fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the defendant makes partial
representations but also suppresses some material facts. [Citation.]’” (LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 336.) “Each of the other
three circumstances in which nondisclosure may be actionable presupposes the
existence of some other relationship between the plaintiff and defendant in
which a duty to disclose can arise. … As a matter of common sense, such a
relationship can only come into being as a result of some sort of transaction
between the parties.” (Id. at pp.
336–337.) In addition to the authority cited above,
California law also provides for disclosure obligations by resellers. “Under California law, a vendor has a duty to disclose
material facts not only to immediate
purchasers, but also to subsequent purchasers when the vendor has reason to expect that the item will be resold.” (OCM Principal Opportunities
Fund, L.P. v. CIBC World Markets Corp. (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 835, 859.) 
 
The court finds the complaint properly alleges
the lease of the GM vehicle from an authorized dealership, with the represented
warranty and required merchantability. [First Amend. Comp., ¶¶ 8-9.] Plaintiff details knowledge of the defects
prior to the execution of the lease. [Comp.,
¶¶ 10-17.]
 
Neither party
addresses the relationship of GM to its licensed dealership. A recent case,
also not presented by either party, addressed similar claims.
 
“Plaintiffs
alleged that they bought the car from a Nissan dealership, that Nissan backed
the car with an express warranty, and that Nissan's authorized dealerships are
its agents for purposes of the sale of Nissan vehicles to consumers. In light
of these allegations, we decline to hold plaintiffs’ claim is barred on the
ground there was no relationship requiring Nissan to disclose known defects. In light
of these allegations, we decline
to hold plaintiffs’
claim is barred
on the ground there was no relationship requiring
Nissan to disclose
known defects.” (Dhital
v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, 844.) 
 
The case was
granted review by the California Supreme Court. “Grant of review by the Supreme
Court of a decision by the Court of Appeal does not affect the appellate
court's certification of the opinion for full or partial publication under rule
8.1105(b) or rule 8.1110, but any such Court of Appeal opinion, whether
officially published in hard copy or electronically, must be accompanied by a
prominent notation advising that review by the Supreme Court has been granted.
[¶] (2) The Supreme Court may order that an opinion certified for publication
is not to be published or that an opinion not certified is to be published. The
Supreme Court may also order depublication of part of an opinion at any time
after granting review.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 8.1105(e)(1)(B), (e)(2).) The
California Supreme Court specifically denied the request for depublication was
denied. Given the potential change to California law on the subject matter
following an opinion on the action, the court considers the case, the court
considers the First Appellate District opinion as persuasive authority.
 
The withheld information constituted a material
fact that impacts a purchase decision. The court also finds that even without
an explicit allegation of an agency relationship, the circumstances of the
dealership delegated responsibility for provision of warranty services
establishes a relationship for purposes of ruling on the demurrer. In other
words, the court declines to make any finding as a matter of law regarding the
scope of any agency relationship, especially given the review of Dhital v. Nissan North America, as well
as other cases potentially addressing the scope of agency in regards to enforcement
of arbitration clauses on manufacture warranty claims through dealership
purchased vehicles pending (See Ford Motor Warranty Cases
(2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 1324). Given the allegations of a failure to disclose
the known defect, the complaint sufficiently articulates
said claim pending further clarification from the California Supreme Court. 
 
The court
declines to further consider the arguments in reply challenging the basis of
“exclusive knowledge” or the lack of sufficient damages. Again, the arguments
are extrinsic to the standards required for the claim. The scope of damages is
the diminished capacity of the vehicle during the relevant period.  The demurrer is overruled.
 
2nd
Cause of Action: Violations of Business & Professions Code section 17200
GM challenges the
violations of Business & Professions Code section 17200 claims on grounds
of insufficient facts due to a lack of any misrepresentation. 
 
“The
UCL does not proscribe specific acts, but broadly prohibits ‘any unlawful,
unfair or fraudulent business act or practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or
misleading advertising....’” [¶] “‘A private plaintiff must make a twofold
showing: he or she must demonstrate injury in fact and a loss of money
or property caused by unfair competition.’ (Citation.)”
(Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010)
183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1359.) Fact specific pleading is not required in order to
allege an unfair business practice. (Quelimane
Co. v. Stewart Title Guaranty Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 46–47. 
 
An
“unlawful” practice “means any practices forbidden
by law, be it civil or criminal, federal, state, or municipal, statutory,
regulatory, or court-made.… ‘Unfair’ simply means any practice whose harm to
the victim outweighs its benefits. (Citation.) ‘Fraudulent,’ as used in the
statute, does not refer to the common law tort of fraud but only requires a
showing members of the public ‘“are likely to be deceived.”’” (Saunders v. Superior Court (1994)
27 Cal.App.4th 832, 838–839.) Fundamentally, recovery requires a direct harm to
the consumer, and actual reliance. (Kwikset Corp. v. Superior Court (2011) 51 Cal.4th 310, 326–327.) 
 
As
addressed in the fraud cause of action, the court finds the withheld
information of the knowing defect constitutes an “unfair” business practice for
purposes of the demurrer. The demurrer is overruled.
 
Motion
to Strike
GM
moves to strike the prayer for punitive damages. GM contends the operative
complaint insufficiently articulates fraud, and therefore cannot support the
claim for punitive damages. 
 
Civil
Code section 3294, subdivision (c) authorizes punitive damages upon a showing
of malice, oppression, or fraud, which are defined as follows:
 
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.
(2) “Oppression” means despicable conduct that
subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that
person’s rights.
(3) “Fraud” means an intentional misrepresentation,
deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the
intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of
property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
Plaintiff
only seeks punitive damages as part of the first cause of action for
fraud-concealment. [First Amend. Comp., ¶ 37.] The court overruled the demurrer
to the fraud cause of action and otherwise declines to separately and
independently consider the factual foundation in the instant motion to strike. Allegations
of fraud may be the basis of punitive damages. 
As such, the motion to strike is therefore denied.
 
In
summary, the demurrer is overruled, and the motion to strike denied. GM to answer
the first amended complaint within 10 days of this order.
 
Defendant
to give notice. 