  Case Number:  21STCV41076    Hearing Date:   March 4, 2024    Dept:  39 Michael Amini v.
4525 Rosemead Blvd., LLC, et al.
Case No.
21STCV41076
 
Order #1 of 4
Motion to Quash
Subpoena
 
            Plaintiff
Michael Amini (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against 4525 Rosemead Blvd., LLC
(“Rosemead”).  Plaintiff alleges as
follows:
 
            Defendant
owns real property located at 4525 Rosemead Boulevard in Pico Rivera, California
90660 (the “property”).  (Complaint, ¶
7.)  Defendant operates a business on the
property, namely “Green Auto,” which is an auto body repair business (the “business”).  (Id., ¶ 8.) 
On or about August 30, 2021, the parties entered into written agreements
for Plaintiff to purchase the property and business.  (Id., ¶ 9.) 
Per the agreements, Plaintiff agreed to pay Defendant $5.3 million for
the property and $900,000 for the business. 
(Id., ¶ 11.)  Plaintiff made
earnest money deposits of $100,000 for the property and $900,000 for the business.  (Id., ¶ 14.) 
Defendant canceled the sale on November 3, 2021, which Plaintiff alleges
was a breach of the contract.  (Id., ¶
20.)  
 
            Defendant
served a series of subpoenas seeking financial information about Plaintiff and
his father, Sassan Amini.  Plaintiff
moves to quash those subpoenas.  If a subpoena requires the production of
documents, the Court may quash the subpoena entirely or modify it.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).)  In ruling on a motion to quash, “the Court
may in its discretion award the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in
making or opposing the motion, including reasonable attorney's fees, if the
court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial
justification or that one or more of the requirements of the subpoena was
oppressive.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2,
subd. (a).) 
 
            As an initial matter, the motion is
denied because the Court has insufficient information to resolve the
issue.  Plaintiff did not provide copies
of the subpoenas.  Plaintiff did not include
a separate statement setting forth the specific demands.  (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a)(5).)  Plaintiff did not even quote the specific
demands in the motion.  Plaintiff merely represents
that the subpoenas seek “personal financial information” pertaining to other purchases
of commercial and residential property.  
 
            The motion also is denied on the
merits.  Plaintiff and his father have a
right to privacy in their financial information.  (See Valley Bank of Nevada v. Superior
Court (1975) 15 Cal.3d 652, 656-657.) 
However, that right may be waived if the financial records are directly
relevant to this litigation.  (See Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d
844, 855-856.)  Plaintiff seeks specific
performance, which requires him to demonstrate that he was “ready and able to
perform” under the contract.  (See, e.g.,
Am-Cal Inv. Co. v. Sharlyn Estates, Inc. (1967) 255 Cal.App.2d 526, 539.)  Therefore, Plaintiff’s financial records concerning
other property transactions are relevant to this case.  Similarly, the financial records of Plaintiff’s
father are relevant based upon Defendant’s evidence that his father applied for
the loan in order for Plaintiff to purchase the property.  Indeed, Plaintiff does not deny that his
father played a role in the instant transaction.
 
            Based upon the foregoing, Plaintiff’s
motion to quash is denied.  The Court will
reconsider this ruling if Plaintiff withdraws the request for specific
performance.  Plaintiff’s counsel shall
provide notice and file proof of such with the Court. 
 
 
Order #2 of 4
Motions to Enforce
Subpoena
 
            Plaintiff
Michael Amini (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against 4525 Rosemead Blvd., LLC
(“Rosemead”).  Rosemead moves to enforce various
subpoenas to third parties.  The motions
were not served on any of the third parties, let alone by personal service as
required by California Rules of Court, rule 3.1346: “A written notice and all moving papers supporting a motion to
compel an answer to a deposition question or to compel production of a document
or tangible thing from a nonparty deponent must be personally served on the
nonparty deponent unless the nonparty deponent agrees to accept service by mail
or electronic service at an address or electronic service address specified on
the deposition record.”
 
            Based upon the foregoing, Rosemead’s motions are denied
without prejudice.  Plaintiff’s counsel shall
provide notice and file proof of such with the Court.  
 
 
Order #3 of 4
Requests for Sanctions
 
            The Court
denies all requests for sanctions.  Plaintiff’s
counsel filed a procedurally-defective motion which was denied on the merits. Defendant
filed a series of procedurally defective motions.  Neither party has been mindful of the Court’s
time in connection with these motions.  Therefore,
neither side is entitled to sanctions. 
Plaintiff’s counsel shall provide notice and file proof of such with the
Court.    
 
 
Order #4 of 4
Case Management Order
 
            The Court discharges
the Order to Show Cause re: Sanctions against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel,
as every defendant has now been served and has answered.  The Court sets the following dates:
 
            Final
Status Conference:        July 11, 2025,
at 9:00 a.m.
 
            Trial:                                       July 29,
2025, at 9:30 a.m. 
 
The parties shall prepare and file joint trial documents on
or before July 3, 2025.  The parties
shall disclose all witnesses they intend to call in their respective
cases-in-chief, and identify and produce all exhibits they intend to introduce
in their respective cases-in-chief, on or before July 3, 2025.  The parties shall comply with all pretrial
procedures for Department #39.  Jury fees
shall be posted within ten (10) days, if they have not been posted already, or
the parties shall waive jury.
 
            Plaintiff’s
counsel shall provide notice and file proof of such with the Court.  
 
 
 