 Case Number:  23AHCV00146    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      March 12, 2024                                               TRIAL DATE: May 21, 2024 
                                                           
CASE:                         DENNIS O’BRIEN, an
individual, v. DEBRA ANN HARRIS, an individual; and DOES 1 through
10,inclusive. 
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV00146
 
            
 
MOTION
FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER
 
 MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Motion for protective order filed
by Plaintiff Dennis O’Brien
                                                Motion
for to compel deposition filed by Debra Ann Hariss
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Plaintiff moves for a protective
order staying his deposition testimony. 


            Defendant moves for an
order compelling Defendant’s deposition testimony. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiff Dennis
O’Brien’s (“Plaintiff”) claim that Defendant Debra Ann Harris (“Defendant”)
defrauded him of assets by offering to assist in the probate process for
Plaintiff’s deceased wife. Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint on October
23, 2023, alleging nine causes of action for (1) elder abuse, (2) intentional
infliction of emotional distress, (3) breach of contract, (4) breach of implied
contract, (5) constructive trust, (6) promissory estoppel, (7) fraud, (8) quiet
title, and (9) equitable lien. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion for an order staying his deposition is DENIED.
 
            Defendant’s
motion to compel Plaintiff’s deposition testimony is GRANTED.  Plaintiff’s counsel is ordered to produce his
client for DEPOSITION within 10 days of the date of this order.
 
 
            All
requests for sanctions are denied. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            The
central issue presented by both motions is whether Plaintiff is competent to
appear for deposition. 
 
On July 20, 2023, this court
granted Plaintiff’s application for the appointment of Lissette Torres,
Plaintiff’s friend and volunteer caregiver. On January 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed
a motion for a protective order to stay the deposition. Code of Civil
Procedure section 2025.410, subdivision (c), “a party may also move for an
order staying the taking of the deposition and quashing the deposition notice.”

 
Plaintiff filed an application
for the appointment of a guardian ad litem on the basis of incompetency.
Deposition for Torres was conducted on October 20, 2023. (Egbase Decl. ¶ 3.) Defendant then noticed Plaintiff’s deposition for
December 11, 2023. (Id. ¶ 4.) Plaintiff’s counsel provides that his
client appeared for deposition on December 11, 2013. (Id. ¶ 5.) 
 
The parties hotly contest the events of the hearing with
Plaintiff’s counsel arguing that his client is clearly incompetent while
Defendant’s counsel argues that Plaintiff had been on a phone call immediately
prior to the deposition, evincing his competency. Plaintiff argues that the
court’s order granting his application for the appointment of a guardian ad
litem is definitive to show that he is not compelled to testify for deposition.
Plaintiff also argues that there is no need for him to appear for deposition.
Plaintiff’s latter argument is completely unpersuasive. Clearly as the party
bringing this case and percipient witness to most of the events at issue Plaintiff,
if competent to testify, is a necessary witness.
 
            Plaintiff’s arguments regarding the appointment of a
guardian ad litem precluding him from testifying is also rejected. Pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 373, subdivision (c), a guardian ad litem may
be appoint for a “person lacking legal competence to make decisions”. 
 
“ ‘In the adversarial context, the
guardian ad litem's function is to protect the rights of the incompetent
person, control the litigation, compromise or settle the action, control
procedural steps incident to the conduct of the litigation, and make stipulations
or concessions in the incompetent person's interests. [Citation.] In such
cases, the guardian ad litem's role “is more than an attorney's but less than a
party's.” ’ ” (In re Nicole H. (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 388, 398.) The
appointment of a guardian ad litem is rooted in protecting the interests of the
incompetent person and furthering efficiency. However, the court is unable to
find, and Plaintiff fails to cite to, any authority establishing that the
appointment of a guardian ad litem is conclusive proof that Plaintiff is unable
to testify as a matter of law. 
 
            Evidence code
700[1]
makes clear that all grounds for disqualification of witness must be based on
statue and there can be no non statutory grounds for disqualification.  If after the deposition is taken the guardian
ad litem believes that the testimony should be disallowed due to factors delineated
in Evidence code 701[2],
they may bring that motion.  
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion for an order staying his deposition is DENIED.
 
            Defendant’s
motion to compel Plaintiff’s deposition testimony is GRANTED.
 
            All
requests for sanctions are denied. 
 
 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   March 12, 2024                                             ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court
indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org



