  Case Number:  22ACV00356    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      March 12, 2024                                               TRIAL DATE: June 4, 2024 
                                                           
CASE:                         IKRUSHER, INC. a
California corporation, v. MILE HIGH CURE CORP., a California corporation dba
MHC Vape Warehouse; JEREMY CALDWELL, an individual; and DOES 1 through 10,
inclusive.  
 
CASE NO.:                 22AHCV00356
 
            
 
MOTION
TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL

 
MOVING PARTY:               Thomas Francis McNamara, counsel
for Defendants Jeremy Caldwell and Mile High Cure Corp.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      No
response filed. 
 
SERVICE:                              Filed February 13, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
            McNamara moves to be relieved
as counsel of record for Defendants Jeremy Caldwell and Mile High Cure Corp.
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiff iKrusher,
Inc. (“Plaintiff”) claim that Defendants Mile High Cure Corp., dba MHC Vape
Warehouse (“MHC”) and Jeremy Caldwell (“Caldwell”) (collectively “Defendants”)
breached an agreement for the sale of 150,000 units of Xenbar-V10-OEM
for $510,000. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants have paid $279,275 under the
agreement. Plaintiff also alleges that Defendant purportedly returned $36,960
worth of products. However, Plaintiff alleges that the returned products were
counterfeit reproductions of Plaintiff’s products. Plaintiff alleges Defendants
owe an outstanding sum of $319,275. 
 
            Plaintiff filed a second amended
complaint on March 15, 2023, alleging nine causes of action for (1) breach of
contract, (2) common count: goods and services rendered, (3) common count: open
book account, (4) conversion, (5) fraud, (6) federal trademark infringement and
counterfeiting, (7) false designation of origin, (8) trademark infringement,
and (9) unfair competition. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The court will delay the effective
date of the order relieving counsel until (1) proof of service of a copy of the
signed order on the clients and (2) proof that the clients have been properly
served with notice of the next trial date have been filed with the court.
 
            Subject to
service of the proofs of service and counsel’s statements at hearing,
McNamara’s motion to be relieved as counsel is GRANTED.
 
            Counsel
is  ordered to submit a declaration or
affirmatively inform the court at the hearing that Mile High Cure Corp.
understands that as corporations it cannot proceed in pro per status.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure §284(1) allows for a change or substitution of
attorney “[u]pon the consent of both client and attorney, filed with the clerk,
or entered upon the minutes.” If both parties do not consent to a substitution
of attorney, Code of Civ. Proc. §284(2) allows for a substitution “[u]pon the
order of the court, upon the application of either client or attorney, after
notice from one to the other.” California Rules of Court Rule 3.1362 sets forth
procedures for relieving counsel without the mutual consent of both parties.
 
Under California Rules of Court Rule 3.1362, an attorney seeking to
withdraw by motion rather than by consent of the client, as here, is required
to make that motion using approved Judicial Council forms. The motion also
requires a declaration stating “in general terms, and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under
Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1).” (Cal. Rules of Ct., Rule
3.1362(c).)  Judicial Council form
MC-052, the attorney’s declaration, requires that the client be provided no
less than five days’ notice before hearing on the motion.  A proposed order prepared on form MC-053 must
also be lodged with the court with the moving
papers.
 
            California
Rules of Court Rule 3.1362 subd. (d) also requires that the motion, notice of
motion, the declaration, and the proposed order must be served on the client
and all other parties who have appeared in the case. The notice served on the
client by mail must be accompanied by a declaration stating facts that show
that either the service address is current or “that [t]he service address is the last known residence or business
address of the client and the attorney has been unable to locate a more current
address after making reasonable efforts to do so within 30 days before the
filing of the motion to be relieved.”
(California Rules of Court Rule 3.1362 subd. (d)). 
 
The Court of Appeals has recognized, “A lawyer violates his or her
ethical mandate by abandoning a
client [citation], or by withdrawing at a critical point and thereby
prejudicing the client’s case. 
[Citation.]  We are, however,
aware of no authority preventing an attorney from withdrawing from a case when
withdrawal can be accomplished without undue prejudice to the client’s
interests.” (Ramirez v. Sturdevant
(1994) 21 Cal. App. 4th 904, 915.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Thomas
F. McNamara (“McNamara”) moves to be relieved as counsel of record for
Defendants Jeremy Caldwell and Mile High Cure Corp. In support of this motion,
McNamara merely contends that this motion is necessary because the clients have
not given consent. McNamara provides no other reason for the basis of the
present motion. At hearing, McNamara is ordered to provide, in general terms
and without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client
relationship, information regarding the basis of this motion. 
 
            Counsel
provides that the clients were served at the last known address which was
confirmed by telephone. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
The court will delay the effective
date of the order relieving counsel until (1) proof of service of a copy of the
signed order on the clients and (2) proof that the clients have been properly
served with notice of the next trial date have been filed with the court.
 
            Subject to
service of the proofs of service and counsel’s statements at hearing, McNamara’s
motion to be relieved as counsel is GRANTED.
 
            Counsel is  ordered to submit a declaration or
affirmatively inform the court at the hearing that Mile High Cure Corp.
understands that as corporations it cannot proceed in pro per status.
 
 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   March 12, 2024                                             ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court