 Case Number:  23STCV14348    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
 Specially Appearing Defendant SBE Ent
Holdings, LLC’s Motion to Quash for Lack of Personal Jurisdiction.
 
The motion is denied.
 
Background
In this action, Plaintiff 6524 HOLLYWOOD ASSOCIATES,
LLC  (“Plaintiff”) alleges that
Defendants 1650 SCHRAEDER BLVD., LLC, SBEEG HOLDINGS, LLC; SBE INVESTORS, LLC;
SBE ENTERTAINMENT GROUP, LLC; SBE RESTAURANT GROUP, LLC; SBE ENT HOLDINGS, LLC;
and SAM NAZARIAN breached the 2005 lease agreement with Plaintiffs by failing
to pay the agreed-upon rent starting in May 2023, and also breached the 2011 guarantee
agreement with regards to the lease.  
Specially Appearing Defendant SBE Ent Holdings, LLC
(“Defendant”) filed this motion to quash service of summons, arguing this Court
does not have personal jurisdiction over it. Plaintiff opposes the motion. 
Legal Standard
When a defendant files a motion to quash for lack of
personal jurisdiction, “the burden of proof is placed upon the plaintiff to
establish the facts of jurisdiction by a preponderance of the evidence.”  Aquila, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2007) 148
Cal. App. 4th 556, 568.   Personal
jurisdiction may be general or specific. Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest
Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal. 4th 434, 445. 
General jurisdiction exists when the defendant has “substantial,
continuous, and systematic contacts with California.” DVI, Inc. v. Superior
Ct. (2002) 104 Cal. App. 4th 1080, 1099. Courts considering general
jurisdiction look at the defendant’s contacts “when the alleged conduct
occurred and at the time of service of summons.” (Id. at 1100.)
Specific jurisdiction exists when a defendant’s
“minimum contacts” with the state shows that the defendant purposefully
directed its acts to the state, “that the cause of action [is] related to or
arise or result from the acts or contacts in the forum, and that the exercise
of personal jurisdiction by the forum would be reasonable.” Muckle v.
Superior Ct. (2002) 102 Cal. App. 4th 218, 227–28. The relevant period for
evaluating a defendant’s contacts for purposes of specific jurisdiction is the
time the causes of action arose. Strasner v. Touchstone Wireless Repair
& Logistics, LP (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 215, 226. 
 
Once the plaintiff establishes facts for jurisdiction,
the burden shifts to the defendant to prove that the Court’s exercise of
jurisdiction would be unreasonable. Muckle, 102 Cal. App. 4th at 228.
Timeliness
Plaintiff contends that the motion is untimely and
should be denied on that basis. Counsel for Defendant explains in the reply that
the clerk’s office rejected the motion filed on the due date, resulting in the
motion getting filed late. Counsel also states the motion was served on Plaintiff
timely. (Vasquez Decl., ¶¶ 3-7.) Even a tardy motion brought under CCP § 418.10
does not deprive the court of jurisdiction for consideration of the
motion.  Olinick v. BMG Ent.
(2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 1286, 1296. Notwithstanding the fact that Defendant
technically filed its motion late, the Court proceeds to address the merits of
the motion.
Evidentiary Objections & RJN
The Court overrules the objections to the Vasquez and
Basta declarations. The Court takes judicial notice of the documents attached
to Plaintiff’s RJN. 
Analysis
Plaintiff has met its burden of establishing facts supporting
personal jurisdiction over Defendant. The 2011 guarantee agreement at issue in
this case was entered into by SBE Restaurant Group and SBEEG Holdings, LLC as
the guarantors. (Basta Decl., Ex. 1.) Sam Nazarian signed on behalf of SBEEG
Holdings, LLC. In 2016, Plaintiff received notice that the interests of SBEEG
Holdings, LLC had been contributed to Defendant. (Basta Decl., Ex. 2.) In 2018,
Plaintiff received notice from Defendant that it was the “ultimate parent
company of the SBE-affiliated entity party to the” lease, and this letter was
signed by Mr. Nazarian as CEO of Defendant. (Id., Ex. 3.) Plaintiff
contends this evidence establishes that SBEEG is the successor of Defendant,
which Defendant disputes. “[S]uccessor liability … is an equitable doctrine. As
with other equitable doctrines, ‘it is appropriate to examine successor
liability issues on their own unique facts’ and ‘[c]onsiderations of fairness
and equity apply.’”  Cleveland v.
Johnson (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1330. For purposes of considering
whether to exercise personal jurisdiction, the Court concludes that Plaintiff
has shown by a preponderance of the evidence that Defendant likely is a
continuation of SBEEG Holdings, LLC, the signatory to the guarantee agreement.
This factor shows that Defendant, at the very least, has significant contacts
with California in connection with the claim that it breached the guarantee
agreement such that specific jurisdiction is warranted.
Furthermore, a 2021 settlement agreement in a separate
California lawsuit between the parties regarding the lease and guarantee, which
was signed by Sam Nazarian as CEO of Defendant, plainly states that Defendant
is the guarantor under the 2011 guarantee agreement. (Basta Decl., Ex. 4.) The
ratification attached to the settlement affirms that Defendant is a guarantor
of the 2011 guarantee agreement, which “shall remain in full force and effect
and is hereby ratified in its entirety.” (Id., Sub-Ex. A, p. 6.) The
fact that Defendant is a guarantor under the guarantee agreement at issue in
this case therefore is presumed to be true. Ev. Code § 622.  The guarantee agreement contains a provision
that the guarantor submits to the jurisdiction of California courts. (Basta
Decl., Ex. 1.) This is another factor that militates in favor of finding Defendant’s
contacts with California are more than sufficient to establish specific
jurisdiction. Intershop Communications v. Sup. Ct. (2002) 104
Cal.App.4th 191, 196 (“The California Supreme Court has held that contractual
forum selection clauses are valid and should be given effect unless enforcement
of the clause would be unreasonable.”)   
In addition, Defendant filed a statement of
information with the California Secretary of State in 2017, listing a Los
Angeles address as its place of business. (RJN, Ex. 5.) Defendant changed its
place of business to New York in 2021. (Id.) But during the four years
Defendant was based in California it conducted business with Plaintiff, including
specifically with regards to the lease and guarantee agreement at issue in this
case as shown in the above exhibits. Defendant remained the guarantor for the
lease at the time the claims in this case arose in 2023 when Defendants
allegedly breached their obligations under those agreements. The declaration
submitted by Defendant’s corporate secretary does not show otherwise as the
declarant merely states that currently Defendant has no office in California,
conducts no business here, and owns no property here. (Hernandez Decl., ¶¶
3-5.) As Plaintiff rightly points out, the Hernandez declaration does not, nor
could it, negate the facts as shown in the above exhibits. That is, that
Defendant is the guarantor under the guarantee agreement in this case. 
Defendant thus has the burden of showing that exercising
jurisdiction over it in this case would be unreasonable. It fails to make any
such showing. Indeed, Defendant has conducted business in California for
several years prior to 2021. Defendant does not dispute the allegations in the
Complaint that its CEO and related entities are in California. Under these
circumstances, exercising jurisdiction over Defendant is reasonable. 
The Court therefore denies the motion to quash. Pursuant
to CCP § 418.10(b), Defendant has 15 days to file a pleading in response to the
Complaint. 
 