 Case Number:  23STCV12462    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:  Plaintiffs’ Demurrer to Defendants’ Answer to
the Complaint.
 
The demurrer is sustained, with 20 days’ leave to
amend.
 
Background
Plaintiffs DENISE FULLER and CEDRIS BUNN JR. (“Plaintiffs”)
bring this action against Defendants HENRY BOORSTIN and WILLIAM BOORSTIN (“Defendants”),
the owners of the apartment building where Plaintiffs reside, for claims based
on numerous alleged habitability violation in the apartment. Defendants filed
Answers generally denying the allegations of Plaintiffs’ Complaint and
asserting twenty-six affirmative defenses. Plaintiffs filed this demurrer to the
7th through-10th, 13th through-15th and 23rd Affirmative Defenses, arguing
that they fail to state facts constituting a defense or are uncertain.
Defendants oppose the demurrer. 
Meet and Confer
A demurring party must meet and confer with the
opposing party in person or by telephone before filing the demurrer. CCP §
430.41(a). Defendants contend that Plaintiffs failed to meet and confer prior
to filing the demurrer. The declaration of counsel attached to Plaintiff’s
motion states that he had “many” meet and confers with defense counsel though
fails to explain if such meetings took place in person or on the phone.
(Partiyeli Decl., ¶ 3.) This is sufficient to satisfy the meet and confer
requirement. 
Legal Standard
A party may file a demurrer to any of the defenses alleged
in an answer. CCP § 430.50(b). The demurrer may be made on the ground that the
defense does not state facts sufficient to constitute a defense or that the
defense is uncertain.  CCP § 430.20(a),
(b); Timberidge Enterprises, Inc. v. City of Santa Rosa (1978) 86 Cal.
App. 3d 873, 880.  “[T]he defect in
question need not appear on the face of the answer. The determination of the
sufficiency of the answer requires an examination of the complaint because its
adequacy is with reference to the complaint it purports to answer.”  South Shore Land Co. v. Petersen
(1964) 226 Cal. App. 2d 725, 733.  
An answer should contain a defendant’s affirmative
defenses to the complaint that would otherwise not be at issue under a general
denial of the complaint’s allegations. Such affirmative defenses are “new
matter.” 431.30(b)(2). To constitute new matter, affirmative defenses must be
styled in the fashion of “yes, the allegations are true, but …” FPI Dev.,
Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 383. An answer’s affirmative
defenses must aver facts as carefully as is required for complaints. Id.
at 384.  “Affirmative defenses must not
be pled as ‘terse legal conclusions,’…” but rather as facts averred in as much
detail as is required in complaints.  In
re Quantification Settlement Agreement Cases (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 758,
813. 
A demurrer for uncertainty is disfavored and will only
be sustained where the pleading is so unintelligible that a defendant cannot
reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what issues must be
admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed against him/her. Khoury
v Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4 612, 616. Even if the pleading
is somewhat vague, “ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.” (Id.)
Analysis
Defendants’ 7th affirmative defense for waiver and 8th
affirmative defense for estoppel are not merely denials of Plaintiffs’
claim in the Complaint. They instead constitute “yes, the allegations are true,
but…” type of defenses. The Complaint has no allegations that would support
such defenses. The defenses must allege facts showing why Plaintiffs have
waived their claims or are estopped from asserting claims. 
The 9th affirmative defense for laches constitutes new
matter because the Complaint allegations do not allege and supply the elements
of such a defense. The Complaint does not allege any definite period to
calculate laches delay (Complaint, ¶ 61 
(“The Plaintiffs have resided in the Subject Property since in or
around November of 2019….”)). 
[Emphasis added.]   Some dates
that are specified are within only a few months of filing the Complaint on
6/1/23, indicating only a short delay that would not give rise to a laches
defense  (e.g., Complaint, ¶ 72  (“Los Angeles Public Health Department cited
the Defendants for the lack of ventilation in the kitchen on March 29, 2023,…”)).  
The same goes for the 10th affirmative defense for
unclean hands, which merely asserts that Plaintiffs “are barred from recovery
under the doctrine of unclean hands.” The Complaint does not admit that Plaintiffs
had unclean hands but instead denies Plaintiffs engaged in any bad conduct
(e.g., Complaint, ¶ 99  (“ Plaintiffs did
not cause, create or contribute to the existence of the defective conditions
alleged herein.”)). Defendants must supply the factual allegations giving rise
to their unclean hands defense.
The 13th affirmative defense alleges Plaintiff
violated the covenant of good faith and fair dealing. This defense is devoid of
any factual allegations about how Plaintiff committed any such violation. Such
facts constitute “new matter” because the Complaint’s allegations have no facts
regarding any breach or violation on the part of Plaintiffs. 
The 14th affirmative defense alleges Plaintiffs did
not comply with various Civil Code statutes. Plaintiffs’ uncertainty argument is
that this defense does not state sufficient facts, i.e., what Plaintiffs did to
violate such code sections. The uncertainty argument is thus entirely
duplicative of Plaintiffs’ arguments for failing to state a claim. The Court
agrees that the defense does not plead any facts to establish violations of the
code sections.  
The 15th affirmative defense for offset states that
any amount of damages awarded to Plaintiffs should be offset by amounts owed to
Defendants. This is another defense that raises a new matter. The Complaint has
no allegations regarding amounts allegedly owed to Defendants-Defendants must plead
facts in their answer that would support such a defense.
The 23rd affirmative defense alleges Plaintiffs failed
to fulfill their obligations under the alleged contract. As with the 14th
affirmative defense, Plaintiffs argue this defense is uncertain because it does
not contain facts to state such a defense. The Court agrees that Defendants
failed to state facts sufficient for this defense. Defendants must include
facts about how Plaintiffs allegedly failed to fulfill their obligations to
support this defense. 
While Plaintiffs mention the 24th affirmative defense
in their motion, that defense is not listed in the notice of the demurrer. The defense
thus is not part of Plaintiffs’ demurrer and the Court  does not consider Plaintiffs’ arguments regarding
it. 
The Court therefore sustains the demurrer with leave
to amend the answer.
 