 Case Number:  24VECV02842    Hearing Date:   December 16, 2024    Dept:  W RICHARD TAVITA vs MILLBRAE CARE
CENTER, LLC
 
MOTION TO CHANGE VENUE
 
Date of Hearing:          December 16, 2024                Trial Date:       N/A
Department:               W                                             Case
No.:         24VECV02842 
 
Moving Party:             Defendant
Millbrae Care Center, LLC dba Millbrae Care Center
Responding Party:       Plaintiff Richard Tavita
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
June 17, 2024, Plaintiff Richard Tavita (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint
alleging injuries suffered while residing in Defendant Millbrae Care Center,
LLC dba Millbrae Care Center’s (“Defendant”) skilled nursing facility.
Plaintiff alleges he is a dependent adult, and was a resident of County of San
Mateo, State of the California. Plaintiff alleges Defendant’s facility was
located in Sherman Oaks, California.  The
Complaint alleges Plaintiff suffered from various pressure injuries, sepsis,
and other conditions under Defendant’s care, where Defendant failed to prevent
and treat such conditions. The Complaint alleges the following causes of
action: 1) Dependent Adult Abuse (Pursuant to Welfare & Institutions Code §
15600, et. seq.), 2) Negligence, and 3) Violation of Residents’ Rights
(Pursuant to Health and Safety Code §1430(b)). 
 
Defendant now moves to transfer venue
in this matter to San Mateo County Superior Court. Plaintiff opposes and
Defendant replies. 
 
The hearing for this motion was
originally set for November 5, 2024, but was continued multiple times to the
present date. (See Min. Order, 10/15/24, 11/14/24.) 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant’s Motion to Change Venue is DENIED.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 395(a), in an action for personal injuries,
the “superior court in either the county where the injury occurs or the injury
causing death occurs or the county where the defendants, or some of them reside
at the commencement of the action, is a proper court for the trial of the
action.” 
 
“Venue
is determined based on the complaint on file at the time the motion to change
venue is made. [Citations.]” (Dow AgroSciences, LLC v. Superior Court (2017)
16 Cal.App.5th 1067, 1076.)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Code of Civil Procedure section 397, the
discretionary venue statute, provides that “[t]he court may, on motion, change
the place of trial . . . (a) [w]hen the court designated in the complaint is
not the proper court” and “(c) [w]hen the convenience of witnesses and the ends
of justice would the promoted by the change.” 
 
The
burden is on the moving party to establish facts justifying the transfer.¿ (Mission
Imports, Inc. v. Superior Court¿(1982) 31 Cal.3d 921, 928.)¿Where a party
moves to transfer venue based on the convenience of witnesses, it must submit
affidavits showing the names of each witness expected to testify for both
parties, the substance of their expected testimony, whether the witness has
been deposed or given a statement, the reasons why it would be inconvenient for
the witnesses to appear, and the reasons why the ends of justice would be
promoted by transfer to a different county.¿ (Juneau v. Juneau (1941) 45
Cal.App.2d 14, 16; Edwards v. Pierson (1957) 156 Cal.App.2d 72, 75 [“The
burden rests upon one who seeks a change of venue . . . to prove that both the
convenience of witnesses and the ends of justice will be promoted thereby . . .
This he must do through affidavits which contain something more than
generalities and conclusions”].) ¿ 
 
“ ‘Convenience of witnesses is shown by the fact
that the residence of all the witnesses is in the county to which the transfer
of the cause is requested. [Citation.] A conclusion that the ends of justice
are promoted can be drawn from the fact that by moving the trial closer to the
residence of the witnesses, delay and expense in court proceedings are avoided
and savings in the witnesses’ time and expenses are effected.’ [Citation.] ‘A
motion for a change of the place of trial on the ground that the convenience of
witnesses and the ends of justice would be promoted by the change is committed
to the sound discretion of the trial court and its determination will not be
disturbed on appeal unless it clearly appears, as a matter of law, that there
has been an abuse of such discretion.’ [Citations.]” (Rycz v. Superior Court
of San Francisco County (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 824, 837.) 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Motion to
Transfer  
 
Defendant
argues the case should be transferred to San Mateo County in the interests of
justice and for the convenience of non-party witnesses. Defendant argues
Millbrae Care Center is located in San Mateo County and its staff members and
leadership live in San Mateo County or nearby counties. (Ma Decl., ¶ 2, 4.)
Millbrae Care Center does not provide care to its patients in Los Angeles
County, and no staff members live in Los Angeles County. (Ibid.)
Defendant argues that the specified employees have treated Plaintiff and will
testify to the issues in this case.  
 
Plaintiff
argues that the venue is proper under Code of Civil Procedure section 395,
subdivision (a). Plaintiff argues Defendant’s “residence” is its principal
place of business located at 13345 Ventura Boulevard Los Angeles, California
91423, within Los Angeles County. Further, Plaintiff argues Defendant failed to
provide the required factual showing for motions under Code of Civil Procedure
section 397, subdivision (c).  
 
A more
extensive factual showing is required for motions for venue transfer based on
the “convenience of witnesses and the ends of justice.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 397,
subd. (c).) Declarations must contain admissible evidence, not hearsay and
conclusions. (Lieppman v. Lieber (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 914, 919; Tutor-Saliba-Perini
Joint Venture v. Sup.Ct. (San Diego Unified Port Dist.) (1991) 233
Cal.App.3d 736, 744.) “The affidavits in support of the motion for change of
venue on this ground must set forth the names of the witnesses, the nature of
the testimony expected from each, and the reasons why the attendance of each
would be inconvenient.” (Peiser v. Mettler (1958) 50 Cal.2d 594, 607.)
 
The Court
finds venue is proper as filed because Defendant’s principal place of business
is in Los Angeles County. (Peck Decl., ¶ 3.) The Court further finds that
Defendant has failed to make the required factual showing for motions to
transfer venue under on Code of Civil Procedure section 397, subdivision
(c).  
 
The Court
agrees with Plaintiff that Defendant’s declaration of Abby Ma, Administrator of
Defendant, fails to meet the requirements set forth by Juneau v. Juneau
(1941) 45 Cal.App.2d 14, 16 and Peiser v. Mettler. The declaration
identifies certain employees but fails to state the substance of their expected
testimony, whether they have been deposed or have given a statement, the
reasons why it would be inconvenient to testify in Los Angeles County, and why
“ends of justice” would be promoted by transfer to a different county. (See ibid.)
Neither does the declaration of Defendant’s counsel, Richard M. Acosta, meet
these requirements. Even if it did, declarations from a party’s counsel
regarding the convenience of the witnesses are usually hearsay or conclusions.
(Rycz v. Sup.Ct. (McGarry) (2022) 81 CA5th 824, 846, fn. 22.)  
 
Furthermore,
for the purposes of determining whether to grant a motion for change of venue
under Code of Civil Procedure section 397, subdivision (c), a court need not
give consideration as to the convenience of witnesses who are employees of the
litigants, unless the employee is called to testify by the opposing party.
(See  
J.C.
Millett Co. v. Latchford-Marble Glass Co.¿(1959) 167
Cal.App.2d 218, 227.) Here, in support of its motion, Defendant speaks to the
convenience of its own employees. There is no indication Plaintiff seeks to
call these employees to testify. Thus, Defendant has failed to make the
required factual showing for its Motion under Code of Civil Procedure section
397, subdivision (c). 
 
Order for
Expenses and Fees 
 
Defendant
requests for attorney’s fees and costs under Code of Civil Procedure section
396b, subdivision (b). However, the Court finds sanctions are unwarranted where
Defendant was unsuccessful in its Motion to Transfer. The Court thus denies
Defendant’s request for attorney’s fees and costs.  
 
 
CONCLUSION
 
The Court
DENIES the Motion to Transfer Venue and Request for Sanctions. 
 
 
Motion to Compel Arbitration and Request to Stay
 
Date of Hearing:          December 16, 2024                Trial Date:       N/A      
Department:               W                                             Case
No.:         24VECV02842
 
Moving Party:              Defendant Millbrae Care Center, LLC 
Responding Party:       Plaintiff Richard Tavita 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is an action for dependent adult abuse
by a long-term nursing facility. On June 17, 2024, Plaintiff Richard Tavita
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendant Millbrae Care Center
(“Defendant”) and Does 1 to 200. The Complaint alleges Plaintiff suffered from
various pressure injuries, sepsis, and other conditions under Defendant’s care,
where Defendant failed to prevent and treat such conditions. The Complaint
alleges Defendant was understaffed and failed to adequately train its staff,
resulting in Plaintiff’s neglect. The Complaint alleges the following causes of
action: 1) Dependent Adult Abuse (Pursuant to Welfare & Institutions Code §
15600, et. seq.), 2) Negligence, and 3) Violation of Residents’ Rights
(Pursuant to Health and Safety Code §1430(b)).
 
On September 9, 2024, Defendant filed
this Motion to Compel Arbitration pursuant to arbitration clauses (the
“Arbitration Clauses”) Plaintiff purportedly signed with his admission
agreement (the “Admission Agreement”) on March 23, 2023. (Ma Decl., ¶ 2-4, Exhs. A-C.)
 
On October 31, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the opposition. 
 
On November 5, 2024, Defendant filed
the reply.
 
The hearing for this motion was set for
November 14, 2024. However, after conferring with Counsel, the Court directed
further briefing on the Serafin case, Civil Code section 3388, and the
lack of mutual assent to the arbitration agreement. (Min. Order, 11/14/24.) The
briefing was ordered to be no more than 7-pages and filed by 11/27/24. Any
opposition was ordered to be filed no later than 12/6/24. 
 
On November 26, 2024, Defendant filed
its supplemental brief. On December 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed a supplemental
opposition. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
The
Motion to Compel Arbitration and Request to Stay is DENIED. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Parties may be compelled to arbitrate a
dispute upon the court finding that: (1) there was a valid agreement to
arbitrate between the parties; and (2) said agreement covers the controversy or
controversies in the parties’ dispute.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2; see
also Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004)¿118 Cal.App.4th
955, 961.) A party petitioning to compel arbitration has the burden of
establishing the existence of a valid agreement to arbitrate and the party
opposing the petition has the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the
evidence, any fact necessary to its defense. (Banner Entertainment, Inc. v.
Superior Court¿(1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356-57.)¿ 
 
“If a court of competent jurisdiction .
. . has ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in an
action or proceeding pending before a court of this State, the court in which
such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to such
action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration is had
in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the
court specifies.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.)¿¿ 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Existence of a Valid Agreement
 
Under both the Federal Arbitration Act and California
law, Arbitration Clauses are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, except on
such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding a contract. (Winter v.
Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) The
party moving to compel arbitration must establish the existence of a written
arbitration agreement between the parties. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) In
ruling on a motion to compel arbitration, the court must first determine
whether the parties actually agreed to arbitrate the dispute, and general
principles of California contract law help guide the court in making this
determination. (Mendez v. Mid-Wilshire Health Care Center (2013) 220
Cal.App.4th 534, 541.) 
 
“With respect to the moving party’s burden to provide
evidence of the¿existence¿of an agreement to arbitrate, it is generally
sufficient for that party to present a copy of the contract to the court. (See¿Condee
v. Longwood Management Corp.¿(2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218, 105
Cal.Rptr.2d 597 (Condee¿); see also Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330 [“A
petition to compel arbitration or to stay proceedings pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure sections 1281.2 and 1281.4 must state, in addition to other required
allegations, the provisions of the written agreement and the paragraph that
provides for arbitration. The provisions must be stated verbatim, or a copy
must be physically or electronically attached to the petition and incorporated
by reference”].) Once such a document is presented to the court, the burden
shifts to the party opposing the motion to compel, who may present any
challenges to the enforcement of the agreement and evidence in support of those
challenges. [Citation]” (Baker v. Italian Maple Holdings, LLC¿(2017) 13
Cal.App.5th 1152, 1160.)
 
i.                   
Plaintiff’s Capacity
 
Plaintiff argues that he
lacked capacity to enter into the Arbitration Clauses when he signed them,
rending them invalid. Defendant argues that Plaintiff has provided no evidence
supporting his incapacity. 
 
The Court agrees with
Defendant that Plaintiff has failed to prove he lacked contractual capacity at
the time he signed the Arbitration Clauses. As support, Plaintiff merely
attached the Complaint. Such allegations are not evidence. The Arbitration
Clauses thus may not be invalidated based on lack of capacity. Nevertheless,
the Court finds the DRP Agreement and Arbitration are invalid on other grounds.
 
ii.                  
Mutual Assent
 
Defendant attaches the Admission Agreement and
separate Arbitration Clauses and asserts Plaintiff signed all documents on
March 23, 2023. (Ma Decl., ¶¶ 2-4, Exhs.
A-C.) Plaintiff argues Defendant did not sign the Dispute Resolution Program
Agreement or the incorporated Arbitration Clauses, and thus, there was no
mutual assent, rendering them invalid.
 
The Court finds that while Defendant has presented a
copy of the Arbitration Clauses, the parties did not mutually assent to
arbitration because the DPR Agreement was not signed by Plaintiff. 
 
The Court notes that, following the Admissions
Agreement, there is a Dispute Resolution Program (DRP) Agreement that
incorporates the two Arbitration Clauses. (Ma Decl., ¶ 2, Exh. A (DRP Agreement is page 73 to 86 of the Motion).) The two
Arbitration Clauses are for 1) arbitrations relating to medical malpractice and
2) for claims other than medical malpractice. The Arbitration Clauses are
incorporated in the DRP Agreement and also attached as Exhibits B and C to the
Motion. (Ma Decl., ¶¶ 3-4, Exhs. B, C.)
 
At issue in the November 14,
2024 hearing for this motion was the legal effect of Defendant’s failure to
sign the DRP and Arbitration Clauses. Plaintiff argued that this invalidated
the agreement. (Opp., 4-5.) In its supplemental brief, Defendant argues that
its failure to sign the agreement does not void the agreement under Serafin
v. Balco Properties Ltd., LLC (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 165 and Civil Code
section 3388.[1]
In Serafin, the Court of Appeal rejected the argument that an
arbitration agreement was invalid because there was no signature from the
drafter. (Serafin, supra, 235 Cal.App.4th at 176.) Instead, the
court noted that evidence of an arbitration agreement’s existence could be
based on conduct implying ratification or acceptance. (Id.) In Serafin,
the drafter showed intent to be bound by the agreement when it invoked the
arbitration process and moved to stay the litigation and compel arbitration. (Id.
at 176-77 [“Just as with any written agreement signed by one party, an
arbitration agreement can be specifically enforced against the signing party
regardless of whether the party seeking enforcement has also signed, provided
that the party seeking enforcement has performed or offered to do so.”].)[2] 
 
Plaintiff relies on Romo
v. Y-3 Holdings, Inc. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1153, to argue that Defendant
needed to sign the agreement because it contained lines for its signature. However,
Romo involved an arbitration agreement within an Employee Handbook where
neither the employee nor employer had signed the area immediately following the
arbitration agreement. Based on the differing language in the arbitration
section and the fact that the arbitration section and remaining sections had
spaces for separate signatures, the Court of Appeal found they were separate
and severable agreements. (Id. at 1159.) Nowhere does Romo
foreclose the rule described in Serafin or Civil Code section 3388 that
an agreement can be valid even without a signature from the enforcer.  
 
Based on Serafin and
Civil Code section 3388, the Court concludes that Defendant was not required to
also sign the DRP Agreement and Arbitration Clauses. Plaintiff sets forth no
evidence or argument that Defendant has not performed its duties under the
Agreement. 
 
Instead, Plaintiff focuses
on the fact that the DRP Agreement was not signed at all. Here, the DRP
Agreement and Arbitration Clauses are separate from the Admissions Agreement. Article
1 of the DRP Agreement clearly states: “By entering into this DRP Agreement and
one or both of the attached arbitration clauses, both parties give up
their constitutional right to have any such dispute decided in a court of law
before a jury, and instead accept the use of mediation or ultimately
arbitration.” (Ma Decl., ¶ 2, Exh. A, p. 73 [emphasis added].) The first
Arbitration Clause also contains the following provision: “By entering into
this DRP Agreement and arbitration clause, both parties give up their
constitutional right to have any such dispute decided in a court of law before
a jury . . . .” (Ma Decl., Exh. B [emphasis added].) Plaintiff argues the
conjunctive “and”, suggests that both the DRP Agreement and the Arbitration
Clauses needed to be signed. 
 
“In interpreting contracts, ‘[t]he
whole of a contract is to be taken together, so as to give effect to every
part, if reasonably practicable, each clause helping to interpret the other.’
(Civ.Code, § 1641.) Additionally: ‘In the construction of a statute or
instrument, the office of the judge is simply to ascertain and declare what is
in terms or in substance contained therein, not to insert what has been
omitted, or to omit what has been inserted; and where there are several
provisions or particulars, such a construction is, if possible, to be adopted
as will give effect to all.’ (Code Civ. Proc., § 1858.)” (Romo, supra,
87 Cal.App.4th at 1158-59.) 
 
The Court notes that the
Arbitration Clause pertaining to Medical Malpractice Disputes contains the
following provision: “By signing this arbitration clause below, the Resident
agrees to be bound by the foregoing arbitration provisions. The Resident acknowledges
that he or she has the option of not signing this DRP Agreement and arbitration
clause and not being bound by the arbitration provisions contained herein.” (Ma
Decl., Exh. B.) The second Arbitration Clause pertaining to disputes other than
medical malpractice, also references the DRP Agreement, by stating: “By
entering into this arbitration agreement, both parties give up their
constitutional right to have any such dispute decided in a court of law before
a jury, and instead accept the use of arbitration as set forth in this DRP
Agreement.” (Exh. C.) 
 
However, based on the
language within the DRP Agreement that separates the Agreement and Arbitration
Clauses as two separate instruments, the Court concludes that Plaintiff needed
to sign the DRP Agreement. Because it was not signed, Defendant has failed to
show that there was mutual assent. 
 
Although the inquiry would
generally end when the arbitration agreement is found invalid, the Court will
continue to evaluate the parties’ arguments regarding enforceability.
 
Enforceability 
 
            The parties
dispute whether the Arbitration Clauses are enforceable under Title 42 Code of
Federal Regulations section 483.70, subdivision (n) (now subdivision (m)) and
Health & Safety Code section 1599.81, which both govern arbitration
agreements by long-term nursing facilities. The Court will address each in
turn. 
 
i.                   
Title 42 Code of Federal Regulations section 483.70, subdivision
(m)
 
Title 42 Code of Federal Regulations section 483.70 governs
requirements for institutions to participate as nursing facilities in the
Medicare and Medicaid programs. (42 C.F.R. § 483.1, subd. (b).) Subdivision (m)
sets forth requirements for arbitration clauses for such facilities, including,
but not limited to the following: the arbitration cannot be condition of
admission, the arbitration agreement must be explained to resident in manner he
or she understands, the resident acknowledges he or she understands the
agreement, and the arbitration agreement must provide for a neutral arbitrator,
provide for selection of venue agreed upon by both parties, and must explicitly
grant the resident the right to rescind within 30 days of signing. (42 C.F.R. §
483.70, subd. (m).) 
 
Plaintiff argues that the declaration of Abby Ma in
support of the Motion fails to state that Defendant complied with these
requirements as to Plaintiff specifically, not just as to all patients.
Defendant argues the DRP Agreement and the Arbitration Clauses comply with
these requirements. 
 
The Court finds that the requirements of 42 C.F.R.
section 483.70, subdivision (m) are likely met. The DRP Agreement states in
multiple places that signing the agreement is not a precondition for admission
to Defendant’s facility. (Ma Decl., ¶
2, Exh. A, p. 73-74.) Further, the DRP Agreement states it may be revoked
within 30 days of signing and provides for a neutral arbitrator and mutual
venue selection. (Ma Decl., ¶ 2, Exh. A, p. 73-78.) Defendant has also
provided evidence that during the admissions process, Defendant allows their residents the opportunity to review the agreements
prior to signing them, explains the documents during the process, and answers
questions. (Ma Decl., ¶ 5) Residents are also advised that the Arbitration
Clauses are voluntary and not a precondition to admission. (Ibid.) The
Court thus finds that the DRP Agreement and Arbitration Clauses do not run
afoul of 42 C.F.R. section 483.70, subdivision (m) as to render them
unenforceable. 
 
ii.                  
Health & Safety Code section 1599.81, subdivision
(d)
 
Plaintiff argues its Health & Safety Code section
1430, subdivision (b) cause of action may not be compelled to arbitration
pursuant to Health & Safety Code section 1599.81, subdivision (d). Defendant
argues that the Federal Arbitration Act (FAA) applies to the DRP Agreement and
Arbitration Clauses, and the FAA preempts Health & Safety Code sections
1430 and 1599.81 to the extent they limit arbitration. 
 
Health & Safety Code section 1430, subdivision (b)(C)
states the following: “An agreement by a resident or patient of a skilled
nursing facility or intermediate care facility to waive that resident’s or
patient’s rights to sue pursuant to this subdivision is void as
contrary to public policy.” Health & Safety Code section 1599.81,
subdivision (d) states the following: “In the event the contract contains an
arbitration clause, the contract attachment pertaining to arbitration shall
contain notice that under Section 1430, the patient may not waive his or
her ability to sue for violation of the Patient's Bill of Rights.” 
 
The Court finds that DRP Agreement explicitly states
the FAA applies. (Ma Decl., ¶ 2, Exh.
A, p. 80.) The Court further finds that Health & Safety Code sections 1430
and 1599.81 are preempted by the FAA to the extent they prevent arbitration.
(See Valley View Health Care, Inc. v. Chapman (E.D. Cal. 2014) 992
F.Supp.2d 1016, 1040–1041 [“[Section 1430, subdivision (b)(C)] effectively ‘prohibits
outright arbitration’ of Patient Bill of Rights claims and as a ‘conflicting
rule is displaced by the FAA.’ [Citation.] [Section 1430, subdivision (b)(C)]
violates and is preempted by the FAA as an obstacle to accomplishment and
execution of FAA purposes. . . . Section[] 1599.81(d) fall[s] as contrary to
the FAA to the extent that [it] require[s] notice of the bar on arbitration of
Patient's Bill of Rights claims.”].) Thus, while the DRP Agreement and the
Arbitration Clause on medical malpractice claims contain a section 1599.81
notice, the Court finds Plaintiff’s section 1430 cause of action arbitrable due
to FAA preemption. The Court finds Plaintiff’s argument insufficient to render
the DRP Agreement and Arbitration Clauses unenforceable. 
 
            The Court does
not address other issues of enforceability because no other issues were raised
by the parties. The Court finds that, based on the parties’ arguments, the DRP
Agreement and Arbitration Clauses are not unenforceable on Plaintiff’s asserted
grounds. Yet the DRP Agreement and Arbitration Clauses are still invalid due to
a lack of mutual assent—there is no valid agreement to enforce. The Court thus
denies the Motion to Compel. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
The Motion to Compel Arbitration and Request to Stay is DENIED.
 


