  Case Number:  19PSCV00741    Hearing Date:   April 22, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
Plaintiffs’ Application for Default Judgment is DENIED
WITH prejudice as to special damages re: DINGZHI CHEN, PEIYU
CHEN, and HELEN LIU and DENIED WITHOUT prejudice re: Yiming Chen and Yan Yan and
DENIED WITHOUT prejudice as to general damages. Plaintiffs have
failed, despite four attempts, to prove-up their damages and as to  DINGZHI CHEN, PEIYU CHEN, and HELEN
LIU, their recent declarations contradict the previous declarations (that
they provided receipts but now claim they paid in cash), raise serious concerns
about the credibility of their claims. As for general damages, Plaintiffs are
afforded one more attempt.  
 
Background
 
This case arises from an alleged medical scam. Plaintiffs
Yiming Chen, Helen Liu, Yan Yan, Peiyu Chen, Dingzhi Chen, Phoebe Noor
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) allege as follows: Between 2017 and the present,
Defendant Hourong Zhang (“Defendant Zhang”) appeared on various platforms
portraying herself as a “doctor” who was capable of treating many different
types of medical problems. These advertisements were aimed at the Chinese-American
communities within Southern California and focused on the use of Chinese herbal
treatment techniques along with various modern medical machines. (Complaint ¶3.) The
above advertisements were to promote Shangqing Medical Center, which was owned
and controlled by Defendant Zhang. When individuals then sought medical
treatment from Defendant Zhang, every customer’s treatment plan centered around
Defendant Zhang’s findings that the customers had too many toxins in their
bodies and they needed to detox their bodies. (Complaint ¶5.)
Defendant Zhang claimed that her special detoxification treatment would cure
all the customer’s medical problems. Customers were then asked to undergo
several weeks or months of detoxification treatment at the Defendants’ medical
clinic. (Complaint ¶¶5,6.) The main treatment provided by the Defendants
involved smearing a cream concoction on the body and then wrapping the
individual in several blankets until the person sweats out the “toxins” within
his or her body. (Complaint ¶7.) Plaintiff Peiyu Chen suffered severe burns to her
stomach as a result of treatment she sought for her insomnia and gynecological
issues. Plaintiff Helen Liu relied on Defendants’ representations that he could
help with weight loss, but she now needs legitimate treatment for the effects
of Defendant standing on her stomach in the course of said treatment. Plaintiff
Yan Yan sought treatment for her acid reflux, which has remained the same.
Plaintiff Dingzhi Chen relied on Defendants’ representations that they could
help with Plaintiff’s genetic heart, liver, and stomach issues, but his
conditions have remained the same. Plaintiff Yiming Chen relied upon
Defendants’ representations that Defendant Zhang would be able to cure her lung
cancer, which has only worsened and the treatments have allegedly caused severe
ulcerations above her genital region. Plaintiffs allege that these treatments
were unregulated and untested, and that Defendant Zhang is not a licensed
medical doctor nor an herbal medicine doctor. (Complaint ¶8.)  Plaintiffs seek in this case a return of the
money they paid, reimbursement for the work they missed for the fake treatment
and pain/suffering associated with the treatment they received. 
 
On August 20, 2019, Plaintiffs filed suit against Defendants
Zhang, Yeqing Lu, Qihe Zhang, Shanqing Medical Inc., TCMUSA Medical, Inc.,
Jasmine Garden, Inc., and Does 1 through 50 for: 
 
1. Intentional Misrepresentation of
Facts/Concealment, 
2. Negligent Misrepresentation of
Facts, 
3. Unfair Business Practice, 
4. False Advertising, 
5. Battery, and
6. Negligence
 
Plaintiff’s Prayer for Relief is as follows: 
 
For compensatory damages according to
proof; Restitution and disgorgement of profit according to proof; Injunctive
relief enjoining Defendants from fraudulent acts alleged in the complaint; for
punitive and treble damages in an amount to punish Defendants and deter others
from engaging in similar misconduct; for attorneys’ fees according to proof;
For the cost of suit incurred herein; and for such other relief as the Court
deems just and proper. (Complaint p. 17.)
 
On October 8, 2021, Defendant Zhang filed a General Denial. 
 
On October 9, 2021, Defendants Shanqing Medical Inc., TCMUSA
Medical Inc. and Jasmin Garden Inc. filed a General Denial. 
 
On November 13, 2021, Plaintiff Phoebe Noor sought dismissal
of herself from the Complaint. 
 
On August 3, 2021, the court (before the Honorable Gloria
White-Brown) filed a Notice of Bench Trial and an OSC re Sanctions for
Defendants failure to appear at multiple status conferences in this matter. 
 
On August 4, 2021, the matter regarding OSC Re: Sanctions
for Defendants' Failure to Appear; Non-Jury Trial were called for hearing. The
court’s Minute Order reflects that Judge Gloria White-Brown struck the general
denials of the corporate Defendants and entered default as to those corporate
defendants on that date. The Minute Order also stated that “[o]n the Court's
own motion, the Order to Show Cause Re: Sanctions for Defendants' Failure to
Appear scheduled for 08/04/2021 is continued to 08/16/21 at 08:30 AM in
Department J at Pomona Courthouse South. The Order to Show Cause is continued
for possible terminating sanctions. On the Court's own motion, the Non-Jury
Trial scheduled for 08/04/2021 is continued to 10/18/21 at 08:30 AM in
Department J at Pomona Courthouse South.”
 
On August 16, 2021, the court struck the general denials of
Defendants Hourang Zhang, Qihe Zhang and Yiming Chen. 
 
On October 15, 2021, Plaintiffs sought entry of court
judgment (CIV-100 form) against Defendants Huorong Zhang, Yeqing Lu, Heqi
Zhang, Shanqing Medical, Inc., Jasmine Garden, Inc. and TCUSA Medical Inc. That
same day, Plaintiffs filed their respective Statement of Damages and
Declarations in support thereof. 
 
On March 22, 2022, the court denied Plaintiffs’ application
for default judgment without prejudice.  
 
On August 30, 2023, Plaintiffs dismissed Yeqing Lu; Qihe
Zhang; Shanqing Medical, Inc; TCMUSA Medical Inc. and Jasmin Garden, Inc. 
 
On September 1, 2023, the court denied another of
Plaintiffs’ applications for default judgment.
 
On October 20, 2023, the court denied another of Plaintiffs’
applications for default judgment but continued the hearing pursuant to an oral
request by Plaintiff’s Counsel. 
 
Discussion
 
Previously, Plaintiffs sought entry of default judgment
against Defendant Hourong Zhang in the amount of $471,896.00. The court,
however, denied the application for insufficient evidence, which drew into
question the credibility of the claims. 
 
Specifically, the court noted that Plaintiffs seek compensation
for lost wages but offered no evidence of them working (wage/salary, W2 forms,
paystubs, etc.).[1] (See Kim
v. Westmoore Partners, Inc. (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 267, 272-286.) Plaintiffs appear to no longer
seek damages for lost wages, perhaps suggesting their previous attempt at such
recovery was unfounded. 
 
As for pain and suffering, the court noted that “they all
seek large sums for pain and suffering” but Plaintiffs offered “no explanation
as to how they calculated their noneconomic damages.” (See 1/24/24 Ruling.) While
“[t]he inquiry is inherently subjective and not easily amenable to concreate
measurement.” (Pearly v. City of Los Angeles (2019) 36 Cal.App.5th 475,
491), 
 
As for declarations, the court noted that there were inconsistencies
with the treatments received (e.g., both Yan Yan and Dinghzi Chen went in for a
detox treatment but received hysterectomies). 
 
Now, however, the defect of insufficient evidence
remains. And with
what amounts to conflicting declarations than the previous applications,
Plaintiffs have not proven their damages. 
 
Plaintiffs now, instead of
$471,896.00, seek a total of $312,067.00 in damages: $112,067.00 in
special damages and $200,000.00 in general damages. More specifically,
Plaintiffs’ Statement of the Case provides the following break-down (p. 5): 
 

 
For clarity, the court does not dispute that the
Plaintiffs’ declarations have sufficiently set forth that Defendant Zhang was
able to convince the Plaintiffs to undergo various treatment by claiming that
she was a medical doctor and that her treatments were FDA approved and that her
treatments would solve Plaintiffs’ ailments with 100% guaranteed results; their
declarations are sufficient evidence of that. 
 
But
evidence of special damages is required.
 
a.     Special
Damages 
 
i.                
Re: DINGZHI CHEN, PEIYU CHEN, and HELEN LIU
 
Previously, whereas Plaintiffs provided numerous receipts,
suggesting that they made payments with a credit card, now Plaintiffs
DINGZHI CHEN, PEIYU CHEN, and HELEN LIU declare, under the penalty of perjury,
that they made cash payments because they were promised a 10% discount. According
to the Rutter Group, the court is required to render default judgment only “for
that relief … as appears by the evidence to be just.” [CCP § 585(b)] Therefore, it
is up to plaintiff to “prove up” the right to relief, by introducing sufficient
evidence to support his or her claim. Without such evidence, the court may
refuse to grant a default judgment for any amount, notwithstanding defendant's
default. [Taliaferro v. Hoogs (1963) 219 CA2d 559, 560, 33 CR 415, 416; Holloway v. Quetel (2015) 242 CA4th 1425, 1434-1435, 195 CR3d
920, 927-928—trial court did not err in refusing to enter default
judgment for pro per plaintiff who failed to submit appropriate supporting
documentation, but court failed to give “neutral (and accurate) guidance” about
requirements for entry of default judgment]. 
 
Here, as Plaintiffs
have failed, despite the opportunity, to provide evidence of payments and now
claim there is no tangible evidence of such payments, the court DENIES
the award of any special damages as to Plaintiffs DINGZHI CHEN, PEIYU
CHEN, and HELEN LIU.
 
ii.              
Re: Yiming Chen and Yan Yan
 
To the extent that Plaintiffs may argue Plaintiffs Yiming
Chen and Yan Yan should recover because they have provided receipts, as
previously noted by the court, those receipts do not clearly substantiate the
payments made. For example, Yiming Chen’s declaration states that she paid for
“registration fees and medication, acupuncture, and moxibustion for the
treatment” and cites to Exhibit 2. (Chen Decl., p. 2:11-12.) Exhibit 2,
however, is 40 plus pages and it is still unclear as to what payment was for
what (e.g., what was the 10/09/18 payment for $100.00 for; what was the
10/09/18 payment for $30 for; what was the 10/22/18 $30 payment for). Moreover,
the declarations are again silent as to the exact number of treatments and on
what dates, which suggests the irrelevancy of the attached receipts. For
example, a receipt labeled for “Tx” (presumably treatment) is dated to 10/16/18
and the last receipt in the amount of $2,461.00 (presumably for a treatment) is
dated to 4/08/19; but it unclear if Yiming’s treatments even lasted that long. 
 
Thus, as to Yiming Chen and Yan Yan, the court will deny the
application WITHOUT prejudice, but only afford one more opportunity to provide
the receipts.  
 
b.    
General damages 
 
As for
general damages, the court determines that the declarations for general damages
are again insufficient. 
 
“The only person whose pain and suffering is relevant in
calculating a general damage award is the plaintiff... How others would
feel if placed in the plaintiff's position is irrelevant… No amount of
expert testimony on the value of life could possibly help a jury decide that
difficult question. (Loth v. Truck-A-Way Corp. (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th
757, 764-64, emphasis added.) 
 
Here, however, Plaintiffs merely recite the treatments they
received. For example, Plaintiffs state that Defendant “touched [their]
bod[ies],” suggesting that any application or pressure by Defendant in the
process of treatments automatically substantiates $50,000 in general
damages. But Plaintiffs have not meaningfully explained the effects of
those treatments (e.g., specifics of drastic life changes as a result of the
treatments). 
 
Thus, as
there is no mathematical formula to determine pain and suffering and Plaintiffs
have otherwise offered no specifics to support their general damages, the
application is denied without prejudice as to general damages. Plaintiffs are
afforded one more opportunity to cure the defect. 
  
 
Conclusion
 
All in all, Plaintiffs have again failed to demonstrate with
sufficient, admissible evidence that they are entitled to the damages that they
seek. 
 
Based on the foregoing, the court denies the application
without prejudice as for general damages (providing one more attempt). As for
special damages, the court denies the award with prejudice because Plaintiffs
DINGZHI CHEN, PEIYU CHEN, and HELEN LIU have been afforded previous
opportunities to cure the defects with their application, but continue to
provide insufficient evidence, suggesting the evidence does not exist. The
application is denied without prejudice as to special damages for Yiming Chen and
Yan Yan. 
 
 


