  Case Number:  22PSCV00627    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2023    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
(1)  
Defendants CAPITALIST MASTERS GROUP’s and MANUEL MARQUEZ’s DEMURRER to
the SAC is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
 
(2)   DEFENDANTS’
MOTION TO STRIKE PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT is DENIED/MOOT as the case is
dismissed. [See fn. 2]
 
Background
 
This case
involves real property. Plaintiff Martha Ismelda Morales (“Plaintiff”) alleges
the following against Defendants: In May 2019, Plaintiff sought the help of
Defendant Marquez, the principal of CMG,[1]
to transfer the subject property from her uncle to Plaintiff. After making
payments, Plaintiff was shocked to learn that the entire loan balance was due. 
 
On June 23,
2022, Plaintiff filed suit against Defendants for: 
 
1. Violation
Of Business And Professions Code ¶ 17500; 
2. Breach Of
Implied Covenant Of Good Faith And Fair Dealing; 
3. Promissory
Estoppel; 
4. Fraud; 
5. Breach Of
Contract; 
6. Temporary
Restraining Order, Preliminary Injunction; And 
7.
Declaratory And Injunctive Relief.
 
On October
31, 2022, Defendants filed a demurrer to the original complaint, which the
court sustained with leave to amend (the demurrer was unopposed). 
 
On January
17, 2023, Plaintiff filed a FAC, adding a COA for intentional infliction of
emotional distress (“IIED”). 
 
On June 2,
2023, Defendants filed a demurrer to the FAC, which the court again sustained
with leave to amend (which was again unopposed). 
 
On July 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed a SAC.[2] 
 
On August 21,
2023, Defendants filed the instant demurrer to the SAC.[3]

 
On September
14, 2023, Plaintiff filed her opposition.
 
On September
14, 2023, Defendants filed their Reply.
 
Legal
Standard
 
A demurrer may be made on the grounds that, inter alia, the pleading does
not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and/or that the
pleading is uncertain. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e)-(g).) When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context. At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need
only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual
basis for the claim against him. (Semole
v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) 
 
 
 
 
Discussion
 
On the two
previous demurrers, Defendants demurred on the grounds that the complaint is uncertain,
vague, and unintelligible, and it cannot be ascertained if the contract(s) on
which the complaint rests are written, or, or implied in conduct. The court
agreed that a contract was insufficiently pled because Plaintiff alleged “that
there may be a purchase agreement, promissory note, or “other loan documents”
but “Defendants were left none the wiser which of the said ‘agreements’ were
violated, by whom, when, and whether the ‘agreement’ that was allegedly
breached by Defendants was oral, written, or implied in conduct in violation of
Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10.” (See December 6, 2022 Tentative Ruling.) As for the
demurrer to the FAC, it was again sustained because Plaintiff again
conclusively alleged that Defendants breached an agreement (that was notably
blank pages)[4]
without adequately pleading the terms of the agreement/contract.
 
Now, despite three opportunities to cure the
defects (i.e., allege terms of an agreement), the SAC is again insufficiently
pled. 
 
The SAC
alleges, inter alia, the following: 
 
-       
In
May 2019, Plaintiff sought the professional assistance of Defendants to
transfer the subject property from Plaintiff’s uncle to Plaintiff to qualify
for refinancing of the property (SAC ¶10)
-       
Instead
of refinancing, Defendants offered to lend Plaintiff and her uncle $23,621.24
to bring their loan current. “The loan would be paid in June 2020, with
$6,348.76 in interest, for a total of $29,970, and was secured by the Subject
Property.” (SAC ¶11)
-       
In
May 2020, Plaintiffs “returned to Defendants for help” because they were unable
to obtain refinancing loan. (SAC ¶13). Defendants agreed to transfer the
property and refinance the loan. (SAC ¶15). Arbitrarily, Defendants included
Barajas, a family friend of Plaintiff, as a coborrower and increased the loan
amount without consent from $223,000 (the principal plus the $29,970) to
$265,374. Defendants “pressured” Plaintiff, her uncle, and Barajas to signing
the agreements without explaining the terms. (SAC ¶16)
-       
Plaintiff
and Mr. Fuentes never received a copy of the purchase agreement or the
promissory note. (SAC ¶18)
-       
Plaintiff
made all payments until Defendants returned her last check in May 2022. (SAC
¶24)
-       
Defendants
allege that they gave Plaintiff, and her family a one-year bridge loan with a
balloon payment. Plaintiff became aware of this via a May 7, 2021, letter from
Defendants’ attorney demanding the balloon payment pursuant to a promissory
note that was not attached and which is unknown to Plaintiff. (SAC ¶28).
 
Again, as
with the original complaint and FAC, Plaintiff’s SAC has failed to meet the
pleading standard on a demurrer. To assert a
cause of action for an alleged breach of a written contract, “the terms must be
set out verbatim in the body of the complaint or a copy of the written
agreement must be attached and incorporated by reference.” (Demurrer p. 5,
citing Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299,
307. Here, neither are the specific terms laid out verbatim nor a copy of
the written agreement.  
 
What is more,
despite unclarity as to what contract was breached (purchase agreement
or promissory note) and how the purported contract was breached, the SAC
suffers from another defect: contradictory allegations. While Plaintiff alleges that Defendants breached
the agreement as they “failed to refinance the loan, and instead performed a
sale of property,” (SAC ¶50) Exhibit D [escrow agreement] attached to the SAC
indicates that the property was transferred to Plaintiff by her uncle
and a loan was given.[5]
Effectively, Plaintiff received what she asked for: a loan (secured by the
property) and transfer of title (from Plaintiff’s uncle to Plaintiff). (See
also Demurrer p. 5.) Thus, it appears that Plaintiff breached the agreement,
not Defendants, by failing to make the balloon payment. 
 
To the extent
that Plaintiff predicates the lawsuit upon Defendants not mentioning a term of
the agreement was a balloon payment, one who signs an instrument is deemed to
assent to its terms. (Marin Storage & Trucking, Inc. v. Benco
Contracting and Engineering, Inc. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 1042, 1049 [“Every
contract requires mutual assent or consent [citation omitted] and ordinarily
one who signs an instrument which on its face is a contract is deemed to assent
to all its terms. A party cannot avoid the terms of a contract on the
ground that he or she failed to read it before signing.”].) Thus, under this
general rule, Plaintiff would be deemed to have assented to a loan agreement
when she signed the agreement. 
 
To the extent
that Plaintiff was to argue that she could not read the terms because
she was pressured to quickly sign the agreement (i.e., suggesting
unconscionability), the SAC contradicts that argument because Plaintiff has specifically
pled some details of the agreement. (See SAC ¶¶15-17 [details such
as a request for $15,000 in cash for loan expenses, adjusting the sale price to
$223,000 and alleging Defendants added $30,030.72 in seller credit repair to
the seller’s closing statement]. Thus, if Defendants never explained anything
nor provided any documentation and left Plaintiffs “in the dark” regarding the
terms of the loan (SAC ¶¶19, 27, 29), it is unclear how Plaintiff knew any of
this information. 
 
In sum, the
SAC fails to allege the terms of the contract and how Defendants allegedly
breached such a loan agreement. As such, despite a third opportunity to provide
such basic facts, the court presumes such necessary
facts do not exist. (See Melikian v. Truck Ins. Exchange (1955) 133
Cal.App.2d 113, 115 [“[P]resumptions are always against the pleader, and all
doubts are to be resolved against him, for it is to be presumed that he stated
his case as favorably as possible to himself (citations); if a fact necessary
to the pleader's cause of action is not alleged it must be taken as having no
existence.”].) As the entire action is predicated upon a purported loan
agreement (and/or Defendants’ alleged statements made in regard thereto), but
Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged the requisite ultimate facts, all the
causes of action fail. 
 
As for leave
to amend, Plaintiff has received numerous opportunities to cure the defects.
And despite filing an opposition, it is completely devoid an analysis, essentially
amounting to an unopposed demurrer. Thus, Plaintiff’s failure to cure defects
and refute Defendants’ arguments suggest that the opportunity to file a third
amended complaint would be futile and expend unnecessary judicial resources, including
additional time and cost for Defendants. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the
foregoing, the demurrer is sustained WITHOUT leave to amend and the motion to
strike is moot/denied. 


