 Case Number:  24STCV01203    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



ELISSA
  WARTOUKIAN, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
THE CHURCH OF OUR SAVIOUR, an unknown
  entity; A CHILD’S GARDEN SCHOOL, an unknown entity; and DOES 1-50, inclusive,
  
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 24STCV01203
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
DEMURRER TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT 
 
Date: June 5, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
The Rector, Wardens and Vestry of The Church of Our Saviour, in San Gabriel,
California (Doe 1) (“The Rector”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
Elissa Wartoukian (“Plaintiff”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             On February 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
operative First Amended Complaint (the “FAC”) against Defendants The Church of
Our Saviour; A Child’s Garden School; The Rector; and Does 2-50, inclusive for:
(1) Unlawful Retaliation (Whistle Blower – Cal. Labor (“Lab.”) Code § 1102.5);
(2) Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy; (3) Race Discrimination
in Violation of the Fair Employment and Housing Act (“FEHA”) – Government Code
Section 12940 et seq.; (4) Retaliation in Violation of FEHA; (5) Failure To
Prevent Race Harassment, Retaliation, And Discrimination in Violation of FEHA;
and (6) Discrimination in Violation of Labor Code Section 232.5. 
 
            On March 27, 2024, Defendant The Rector filed the instant demurrer (the “Demurrer”). On May 22, 2024, Plaintiff
filed an opposition to the Demurrer and on May 29, 2024, The Rector filed a
reply. 
             
JUDICIAL NOTICE 
            The Rector requests that the Court take judicial notice of its Articles
of Incorporation filed with the California Secretary of State on March 22, 1935.
 
            The Rector’s request for
judicial notice is GRANTED, pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision
(c). 
 
MEET AND CONFER 
             Prior to filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41 and
435.5.)¿¿¿
 
The
Court finds that The Rector sufficiently engaged in the meet and confer process
prior to filing the Demurrer. 
DISCUSSION
“The
primary function of a pleading is to give the other party notice so that it may
prepare its case [citation], and a defect in a pleading that otherwise properly
notifies a party cannot be said to affect substantial rights.” (Harris v.
City of Santa Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th 203, 240.)¿“A¿demurrer¿tests the
legal sufficiency of the factual allegations in a complaint.” (Ivanoff v.
Bank of America, N.A.¿(2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 719, 725.) The Court looks to
whether “the complaint alleges facts sufficient to state a cause of action or
discloses a complete defense.” (Id.) The Court does not “read passages
from a complaint in isolation; in reviewing a ruling on a demurrer, we read the
complaint ‘as a whole and its parts in their context.’ [Citation.]” (West v.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 780, 804.) The Court
“assume[s] the truth of the properly pleaded factual allegations, facts that
reasonably can be inferred from those expressly pleaded and matters of which
judicial notice has been taken.” (Harris, supra, 56 Cal.4th p. 240.)
“The court does not, however, assume the truth of contentions, deductions or
conclusions of law. [Citation.]” (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183
Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.)¿¿¿ 
 
¿           A general demurrer may be brought
under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e) if insufficient
facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted or under section
430.10, subdivision (a), where the court has no jurisdiction of the subject of
the cause of action alleged in the pleading. All other grounds listed in
Section 430.10, including uncertainty under subdivision (f), are special
demurrers. Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable
possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18
Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a
pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.)¿¿
 


 
Demurrer to Complaint
            The Rector demurs to
Plaintiff’s entire FAC on the grounds that: (1) all the causes of action causes
of action fail to allege all of the elements of such causes of action against The
Rector; (2) the second, third, fourth and fifth causes of action fail to state an
action against The Rector because non-profit religious organizations and their
employees are exempt from FEHA claims; and (3) all the causes of action are
uncertain.  
 
            FEHA Religious Exemption
Pursuant to Government Code section 12926,
subdivision (d), “‘Employer” includes any person regularly employing five or
more persons, or any person acting as an agent of an employer, directly or
indirectly, the state or any political or civil subdivision of the state, and
cities, except as follows: ‘Employer’ does not include a religious association
or corporation not organized for private profit.” 
 
Plaintiff concedes that The Rector is a religious
entity for purposes of exemption under the FEHA; however, Plaintiff contends that
The Rector waived its FEHA religious exemption because it (1) provided and had
employees agree to employee handbooks that were consistent with the protections
afforded by the FEHA; (2) prominently posted posters required by the FEHA,
which also directed employees to contact appropriate California agencies
regarding FEHA violations; and (3) consistently provided FEHA
anti-discrimination and anti-harassment training. (FAC ¶¶8-12.) Furthermore,
Plaintiff argues The Rector is estopped from denying her the protections and
relief under the FEHA.  
 
 
In Matthews v. Happy
Valley Conference Center, Inc. (2019) 43
Cal.App.5th 236, the court held that: “[w]aiver is ‘the voluntary relinquishment
of a known right, which may be effective as a matter of law without any
demonstration that the other party was caused by the waiver to expose [itself]
to any harm.’” (Id. at 43 Cal.App.5th at 257.) The Matthews court held that a handbook that merely states that a religious entity
prohibits harassment, discrimination, and retaliation is not enough to
constitute a knowing and voluntary waiver of the religious entity exemption. (Id. at 258.) Similarly,
a handbook that simply refers to being bound by the “applicable laws” providing
equal employment opportunities also fails to constitute a knowing and voluntary
waiver of the religious exemption. (Id.)
 
Similarly, “[t]o support a claim for wrongful
termination in violation of public policy, a policy must be ‘delineated in
either constitutional or statutory provisions'; it must be ‘ “public” in the
sense that it “inures to the benefit of the public” rather than serving merely
the interests of the individual’; it must have been well established ‘at the
time of the discharge’; and it must be ‘fundamental’ and ‘substantial.’
[Citation.]” (Henry v. Red Hill
Evangelical Lutheran Church of Tustin (2011) 201
Cal.App.4th 1041, 1050.) “However, a public policy purportedly tethered to the
FEHA statutes does not give rise to a cause of action for a wrongful
termination in violation of public policy when the claim would be precluded
under the FEHA because the act specifically exempts the defendant from the
definition of employer.” (Id.)
 
The court in Matthews further held on the issue of estoppel: “[w]henever a party has, by his
own statement or conduct, intentionally and deliberately led another to believe
a particular thing true and to act upon such belief, he is not, in any
litigation arising out of such statement or conduct, permitted to contradict
it.” (Id.) Thus, in
order for a party to be estopped from denying relief to the other party, “(1)
the party to be estopped must be apprised of the facts; (2) he must intend that
his conduct shall be acted upon, or must so act that the party asserting the
estoppel has a right to believe it was so intended; (3) the other party must be
ignorant of the true state of facts; and (4) he must rely upon the conduct to
his injury.” (Id. [internal quotations omitted].) Also, equitable estoppel is “defensive
in nature only” because it “operates to prevent one [party] from taking an
unfair advantage of another.” (Id.)
             
            The Court finds that The
Rector did not waive its religious entity exemption under FEHA. Neither the FAC’s
allegation that The Rector provided Plaintiff and other employees with a
handbook that stated employees were protected by the anti-discrimination laws
of California nor the allegation that The Rector posted posters identifying
FEHA classes and contact information indicates that The Rector knowingly and
voluntarily waived its religious exemption. 
 
The Court further finds that estoppel does not
apply in this case. 
 
The TAC’s third, fourth and fifth causes of action are
solely based on claims under FEHA and therefore they do not state a valid claim
for relief against The Rector. Plaintiff’s second cause of action for wrongful
termination, however, is not solely based on EHA claims, as it is also based on
Labor Code section 1102.5.  As a consequence,
the second cause of action does not fail on the basis of the FEHA religious
entity exemption and its validity will be analyzed on the other grounds stated
in the Demurrer. (FAC ¶¶20, 29.) 
 
            The Rector’s Demurrer to
the third, fourth and fifth causes of action is SUSTAINED without Leave to
Amend. 
 
First Cause of Action for Unlawful Discrimination
in Violation of Labor Code section 1102.5
Pursuant to Labor Code section 1102.5, “(b) An
employer, or any person acting on behalf of the employer, shall not retaliate
against an employee for disclosing information, or because the employer
believes that the employee disclosed or may disclose information, to a
government or law enforcement agency, to a person with authority over the
employee or another employee who has the authority to investigate, discover, or
correct the violation or noncompliance, or for providing information to, or
testifying before, any public body conducting an investigation, hearing, or
inquiry, if the employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information
discloses a violation of state or federal statute, or a violation of or
noncompliance with a local, state, or federal rule or regulation, regardless of
whether disclosing the information is part of the employee’s job duties.” (See also, Lab. Code, §§
1102.5, subd. (c)-(d).)
 
“To establish a prima facie case of retaliation,
the plaintiff ‘must show (1) she engaged in a protected activity, (2) her
employer subjected her to an adverse employment action, and (3) there is a
causal link between the two.’” (McVeigh v.
Recology San Francisco (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th
443, 468.)
 
The FAC fails to state sufficient facts to support
a cause of action under Labor Code section 1102.5. The FAC alleges that Plaintiff
was a witness to a co-worker’s discrimination and harassment claims against The
Rector. (FAC ¶14.) The FAC also alleges that Plaintiff made repeated complaints
that The Rector was understaffed and out of legal compliance ratios. (FAC ¶15.)
The FAC further alleges that Plaintiff was not given any reason for her
termination on or about May 2023. (FAC ¶¶14-15.) The FAC also alleges that The
Rector discriminated and retaliated against Plaintiff because she is Armenian.
(FAC ¶16.) Specifically, the FAC alleges Plaintiff was the only one who was
micromanaged by other staff who constantly watched her in her classroom. (Id.) The FAC fails
to allege, however, what law the legal compliance ratios violated. The FAC also
fails to allege a causal link between Plaintiff’s making complaints about the
staffing and legal compliance ratios and the purported discrimination she faced,
such as the timeframe these actions took place, to gauge if they were close in
time. 
 
Therefore, the Demurrer as to the first cause of
action is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Second Cause of Action for Wrongful
Termination in Violation of Public Policy
Plaintiff’s second cause of action is also based on
Labor Code section 1102.5. Therefore, the second cause of action also fails to
state sufficient facts to support a valid cause of action. 
 
Therefore, the Demurrer to the second cause of
action is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to mend. 
 
            Sixth Cause of Action for Discrimination in Violation
of Labor Code Section 232.5
            Pursuant to Labor Code section 232.5, subdivision (c), no employer may “discharge, formally
discipline, or otherwise discriminate against an employee who discloses
information about the employer’s working conditions.” (Lab. Code, § 232.5,
subd. (c).)
 
            Plaintiff does not
address The Rector’s Demurrer to the sixth cause of action. Nevertheless, the Court
finds that the FAC fails to state sufficient facts to support the sixth cause
of action. The same defects in the first and second cause of action also cause
the sixth cause of action to fail. 
 
            Therefore, the Demurrer
to the sixth cause of action is SUSTAINED with20 days leave to amend.  
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 5th day of June 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



