 Case Number:  24TRCV01322    Hearing Date:   January 2, 2025    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 January 2, 2025 
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                      24TRCV01322
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                           Christopher Meeks, et al. v. Bay Crest
Care Center, LLC, et al. 
¿¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendants, Bay Crest Care Center, LLC dba Bay Crest
Care Center and Rita Simms 
                                                
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiffs,
Christopher Meeks, individually and as successor-in-interest to James Meeks
(deceased); James Louis Meeks, Jr., Brittany Tarsha Emerson, Tavaors Javon
Meeks, De’Ante Lasean Emerson
                                                
TRIAL DATE:                       Not Set. 
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Defendants Motion to Compel
Arbitration 
 
Tentative Rulings:                     (1) GRANT, and stay the
wrongful death cause of action which defendants concede is not subject to
arbitration
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A.   
Factual¿¿¿
¿¿¿ 
On April 17, 2023, Plaintiffs, Christopher Meeks,
individually and as successor-in-interest to James Meeks (deceased); James
Louis Meeks, Jr., Brittany Tarsha Emerson, Tavaors Javon Meeks, De’Ante Lasean
Emerson (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Defendants, Bay
Crest Care Center, LLC dba Bay Crest Care Center, Rita Simms, Imelda Punzalan,
and DOES 1 through 100. The complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Elder
Abuse and Neglect; (2) Negligence; (3) Violation of Patient’s Bill of Rights;
(4) Wrongful Death (Elder Abuse and Neglect); and (5) Wrongful Death
(Negligence). 
 
Defendants, Bay Crest Care Center, LLC dba Bay Crest
Care Center and Rita Sims (“Moving Defendants”) now file a Motion to Compel
Arbitration. 
 
B.    Procedural¿¿¿ 
 
On September 23, 2024, Moving Defendants
filed a Motion to Compel Arbitration and for Stay Action. On October 21, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed an opposition brief. On October 25, 2024, Moving Defendants filed a reply
brief. At the original hearing on this motion, the Court raised the question
for oral argument and then supplemental briefing as to whether the gravamen of
the lawsuit is one sounding in elder abuse or in medical negligence, which if California
law applies would affect whether the decedent’s survivors are or are not bound
by the Decedent’s signature on the arbitration agreement.  
 
 
¿II.
ANALYSIS¿¿ 
 
A.    Legal
Standard 
The Federal Arbitration
Act (“FAA”) states that “[a] written provision in any . . . contract evidencing
a transaction involving commerce to settle by arbitration a controversy
thereafter arising out of such contract or transaction . . . shall be valid, irrevocable,
and enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the
revocation of any contract.” (9 U.S.C. § 2.) California law incorporates many
of the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal Arbitration Act,
including a presumption in favor of arbitrability. (Engalla v. Permanente
Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-72.)
California law states
that “[o]n petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the
existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to
the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists….” (Code Civ. Proc, §
1281.2.) “The party seeking arbitration bears the burden of proving the
existence of an arbitration agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears
the burden of proving any defense, such as unconscionability.” (Pinnacle
Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55
Cal.4th 223, 236.)
Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure §1281.2, generally, on a petition to
compel arbitration, the court must grant the petition unless it finds either
(1) no written agreement to arbitrate exists; (2)¿the right to compel
arbitration has been waived; (3) grounds exist for revocation of the agreement;
or (4) litigation is pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or
create conflicting¿rulings on common issues. 
 
When seeking to compel
arbitration, the initial burden lies with the moving party to demonstrate the
existence of a valid arbitration agreement by preponderance of evidence. 
(Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 841-42; Gamboa
v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021), 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 164-65.)  It
is sufficient for the moving party to produce a copy of the arbitration
agreement or set forth the agreement’s provisions.  (Gamboa, 72
Cal.App.5th at 165.)  The burden then shifts to the opposing party to
prove by a preponderance of evidence any defense to enforcement of the contract
or the arbitration clause.  (Ruiz, 232 Cal.App.4th at 842; Gamboa,
72 Cal.App.5th at 165.)  Subsequently, the moving party must
establish with the preponderance of admissible evidence a valid arbitration
agreement between the parties.  (Ibid.)  The trial court then
weighs all the evidence submitted and uses its discretion to make a final
determination.  (Ibid.)  “California law, ‘like [federal law],
reflects a strong policy favoring arbitration agreements and requires close
judicial scrutiny of waiver claims.’”  (Wagner Const. Co. v. Pacific
Mechanical Corp. (2007) 41 Cal.4th 19, 31.) 
 
If the court orders
arbitration, then the court shall stay the action until arbitration is
completed.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.) 
 
 
 
B.    Discussion 
In
Moving Defendants’ supplemental brief, they maintain that the motion is
governed by the FAA, not California law. Moving Defendants cite to the
Arbitration Agreement, stating: paragraph 9 explicitly states: “pursuant to the [FAA], upon
application of any party … the Court shall designate and appoint an
arbitrator.” Further, Moving Defendants assert paragraph 10 provides that the
FAA controls if there is any conflict with California law. Moving Defendants
also contend that undisputed by Plaintiff, Meeks’s residency involved
interstate commerce, thereby falling within the FAA’s scope. (9 U.S.C. §2.) Instead
of arguing whether the complaint’s wrongful death claim is based on a primary
basis of professional negligence or allegations of elder abuse, Moving
Defendants instead assert that the FAA preempts any state law that
discriminates against arbitration of wrongful death claims allegedly caused by
elder neglect but not medical negligence, arguing the cases relied upon by
Plaintiffs (i.e., Hearden, Avila and Daniels), are all governed
by California law, and not the FAA, making them distinguishable as to the case
at bar. 
Second, Moving Defendants also argue
that Plaintiffs offer no evidence that Meeks did not understand the arbitration
agreement because Defendants failed to explain it to him. Instead, Moving
Defendants state that the Arbitration Agreement complies with 42 C.F.R. §
483.70(m) because Meeks represented that he had read the agreement and “had an
opportunity to ask questions about this Agreement.” (Arbitration Agreement, p.
4.)
In
Plaintiffs’ supplemental briefing,
they submitted the declaration of Dr. Lloyd M. Krieger (“Krieger Decl.”) in
support of their supplemental motions. Based on Krieger’s declaration,
Plaintiffs assert that a reasonable degree of medical probability supports the
finding that Decedent Meeks’ decubitus ulcer and the infections it caused, such
as osteomyelitis, were substantial factors in Meeks’ death. (Krieger Decl., ¶¶
16-17.)  
Plaintiffs also argue that the
Petition to Compel Arbitration should be denied because there is a possibility
of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact according to California
Code of Civil procedure section 1281.1, subdivision (c). In the previous
briefings, Moving Defendants conceded that one of the five causes of action
alleged (the wrongful death – elder abuse & neglect claim) is arguably not
subject to binding arbitration. However, Moving Defendants do not further
discuss this issue in their supplemental briefing. 
After considering the original briefing
and supplemental briefing, as well as the prior oral argument, the Court
exercises its discretion and tentatively finds that a valid agreement to
arbitrate exists which is governed by the FAA, that four of the five causes of
action are arbitrable as against Decedent’s heirs, and that the wrongful death cause
of action and the lawsuit should be stayed pending the outcome of the arbitration.  
 