 Case Number:  23TRCV02093    Hearing Date:   January 2, 2025    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    January 2, 2025
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23TRCV02093
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Lamar Mosley v. Uptimum Medial Group and
IPA, Inc., et al. 
 
MOVING PARTY:                   (1) Plaintiff, Lamar Mosley
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        (1) Defendant,
Robert Levin, M.D.  
                                                (2) Marsha Budhan,
PA-C
                                                (3) Defendants,
Olukemi Wallace, M.D. and Uptimum Medical Group and IPA, Inc. 
¿¿¿ ¿¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                            August 11, 2025
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                                  Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave
Amend FAC to include an allegation for Punitive Damages, 
(1) as to Dr. Levin
                                                            (2) as to
PA Budhan
                                                            (3) as to
Dr. Wallace and Uptimum
¿¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                     (1) DEFERRED as to Dr.
Levin, given the pending settlement
                                                (2) ARGUE as to PA
Budhan due to the Court’s question about the standard of care applicable to a
PA
(3) GRANTED as to Dr. Wallace and Uptimum Medical Group and
IPA, Inc. 
                                                
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
On June 28, 2023, Plaintiff, Lamar Mosley(“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint against Defendants, Uptimum Medical Group and IPA, Inc.. On
July 12, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging one
cause of action for Negligence (Medical Malpractice). The pleading is based on
Plaintiff’s allegations that he is now an amputee because he was given
chemotherapy for cancer that he never had. 
 
Now, Plaintiff moves for Leave to File a
First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) to include punitive daamges allegatiosn agains
health care provider defendants.
 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On November 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
Motion for Leave Amend his FAC to add an allegation of punitive damages. On December
17, 2024, Defendant, Robert Levins filed a response requesting that in light of
a settlement of claims against him, he asks this Court defer ruling on the
motion as to himself and to permit him to prepare an appropriate opposition at
a later date, if necessary. On December 18, 2024, Defendant, Marsha Budhan,
PA-C filed an opposition. Also on December 18, 2024, Defendants, Olukemi Wallace,
M.D. and Uptimum Medical Group and IPA, Inc. filed an opposition. On December
24, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply brief to Defendants, Olukemi Wallace, M.D.
and Uptimum Medical Group and IPA, Inc.’s opposition brief. Also, on December
24, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply brief to Defendant Marsha Budhan’s opposition
brief. 
 
II. ANALYSIS¿¿ 
 
A.    Legal Standard 
 
Before
pleading punitive damages against a health care provider, a plaintiff must
obtain a court order allowing the amended pleading.¿ (Code Civ. Proc. § 425.13
(a).)¿ “The court may allow the filing of an amended pleading claiming punitive
damages on a motion by the party seeking the amended pleading and on the basis
of the supporting and opposing affidavits presented that the plaintiff has
established that there is a substantial probability that the plaintiff will
prevail on the claim pursuant to Section 3294 of the Civil Code.”¿ (Code Civ.
Proc. § 425.13 (a).)  In ruling on a
Section 425.13 motion, the Court does not weigh evidence of make binding
factual determinations that would invade the province of the jury; rather, the
Court assesses whether the allegation of the proposed amended pleading present
a prima facie showing of facts, that, if believed by the trier of fact, would
justify a determination of malice, oppression or fraud by clear and convincing evidence.  (Looney v Superior Court (1993) 16
Cal.App. 4th 321.)  
 
In an action
for the breach of a non-contract obligation, a plaintiff may recover punitive
damages by proving by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been
guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.¿ (Civ. Code, § 3294 (a).)¿ The
necessary elements for fraud are: (1) a misrepresentation; (2) knowledge of its
falsity; (3) intent to defraud; (4) justifiable reliance; and (5) resulting
damage.¿ (Conroy v. Regents of Univ. of Cal.
(2009) 45 Cal.4th 1244, 1255 (Conroy).)  Punitive damages may also
be imposed on conduct that is malicious, oppressive, or fraudulent.¿ (Civ.
Code, § 3294 (a).)¿ As interpreted by the Supreme Court, findings of malice and
oppression require “despicable” conduct, and “despicable” conduct is “base,”
“vile,” or “contemptable.”¿ (College Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.)
 
B.    Discussion 
 
            Plaintiff seeks leave to add
punitive damages to his FAC. In support of this motion, Plaintiff attaches the
declaration of his board-certified oncologist expert, who has opined that
Defendants acted with a conscious, callous, and reckless disregard for the
life, safety, and well-being of Plaintiff. Plaintiff has also included the
declaration of a board-certified oncologist and hematologist expert who has
opined that Defendants’ administration of chemotherapy and supportive GCSF to
Plaintiff caused Plaintiff to develop arterial thrombosis – and this condition
caused Plaintiff to undergo an above-the-knee amputation of his left leg. 
 
            Plaintiff submits the following
evidence: (1) excerpts of the Deposition of Defendant Marsha Budhan; (2) text
messages between Defendant Marsha Budhan and Defendant Olukemi Wallace; (3)
excerpts of the deposition of Defendant Robert Levin; (4) relevant portions of
the medical records from Defendant Uptimum Medical Group and IPA, Inc. ; (5)
relevant portions of the medical records from Kaiser Permanente, as produced in
response to a subpoena served by Defendant, Marsha Budhan; (6) a copy of
Defendant Olukemi Wallace’s responses to Plaintiff Lamar Mosely’s Requests for
Admission (set two); (7) a copy of Defendant Olukemi Wallace’s responses to
Plaintiff Lamar Mosley’ Special Interrogatories (set one); (8) a copy of the
June 27, 2022 pathology report from Antelope Valley Medical Center; and (9) a
copy of the August 11, 2022 chemotherapy order given by Defendant Olukemi
Wallace.
 
The
Court analyzes the issues with respect to each of the Defendants below: 
 
i.               
Dr. Robert Levin
 
In
Dr. Levin’s case, his opposition has requested this Court to defer ruling on
the motion as to him since there has been a settlement of the claims against
him, and to permit him to prepare an appropriate opposition at a later date, if
necessary. Because Plaintiff has not filed a reply brief with respect to Dr.
Levin, the Court grants this request, and defers ruling on this motion as it
pertains to Dr. Levin. 
 
ii.             
Dr. Olukemi Wallace, M.D. and Uptimum Medical Group
and IPS, Inc.
 
Here,
the Court finds that the evidence submitted by Plaintiff is sufficient to add a
claim for punitive damages against Dr. Wallace and her medical group, despite
Dr. Wallace claiming that under Cottle v. Superior Court of Ventura County
(1992) 3 Cal.App.4th 1367, Plaintiff’s expert testimony did not establish that
the injuries were specifically caused by her. The Court looks to the other
evidence alleged in the proposed amended pleading, including text messages as
well as the order bearing the name of Dr. Wallace to administer chemotherapy,
to conclude that Plaintiff has presented factual allegations which, if believed
and not contradicted, could show through clear and convincing evidence that Dr.
Wallace and Uptimum Medical Group and IPS, Inc. may have acted with malice,
oppression, and/or fraud. 
 
iii.            
Marsha Budhan, PA-C
 
PA Budhan
argues that there has never been any testimony, let alone evidence, that she
acted with knowledge of the absence of a positive pathology report. Budhan
contends that her testimony reveals that she recalled seeing a pathology
report, but only checked the date for purposes of timing for her entry. Budhan
states that she never read the pathology report nor had any party testified to
that effect, and that instead, she was merely following the orders of her
supervising physician to administer the chemotherapy. In Plaintiff’s reply
brief, he asserts that even if Defendant Budhan is not an oncologist, she is a
seasoned physician’s assistant and medical professional with over eighteen (18)
years of experience. Despite this experience, Plaintiff asserts that Defendant
Budhan proceeded with the alleged unjustified administration of chemotherapy to
her patient, even when she had the opportunity to review the pathology report
that was negative for cancer, she neglected to read the report and continue to
administer chemotherapy. 
 
As
to this physician’s assistant, the Court requires oral argument or potentially additional
allegations as to whether evidence of the standard of care of a physician’s
assistant is required to allege punitive damages against Budhan as evidence of
whether physician’s assistants are required to read full reports -- instead of following
the directive of the oncologist’s telephonic and written order to
administer  the medication -- as the
industry standard required before administering chemotherapeutic treatments. 
 
 
 
 