 Case Number:  24TRCV02864    Hearing Date:   January 2, 2025    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling 
¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 January 2, 2025
¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   24TRCV02864
¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Francisco
Lopez v. Brightview Landscapes, LLC, et al.
¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant, Brightview
Landscapes, LLC erroneously sued as Brightview Landscapes, LLP. 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiffs, Francisco Lopez
¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                       Not
Set 
¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to
Compel Arbitration 
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED
 
 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Factual¿ 
 
On
August 28, 2024, Plaintiff, Francisco Lopez (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint
against Defendant, Brightview Landscapes LLC and DOES 1 through 50. The
Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Violation of Cal. Gov. Code §
12945.2 (California Family Rights Act); (2) Violation of California Civil Code,
§52.1(Banes Act); (3) Aiding, Abetting, Inciting, Compelling, or Coercing Acts
Forbidden by Cal. Govt. Code §12940(i) (FEHA); (4) Wrongful termination; (5)
Unfair and Unlawful Business Practices; (6) California Worker Adjustment and
Retraining Notification Act (WARN Act); (7) Breach of Contract; (8) Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress; (9) Negligent Infliction of Emotional
Distress; (10) Negligence; (11) Violation of Cal. Gov’t. Code §12940(i)
(California Fair Employment and Housing Act) (FEHA); (12) Disability
Discrimination by Association in Violation of FEHA[Cal. Gov't Code § 12926(o)];
and (13) Failure to Prevent Discrimination in Violation of FEHA [Cal. Gov't
Code § 12940(k)]. 
 
Defendant,
Brightview Landscapes LLC (“Defendant”) now wishes to enforce an arbitration
clause Plaintiff allegedly signed in connection with his employment with the
Defendant’s company.
 
 
B.
Procedural 
 
On October 7, 2024, Defendant
file a Motion to Compel Arbitration. On October 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition. On November 1, 2024, Defendant filed a reply brief. 
 
This motion was originally
heard on November 5, 2024. This Court continued the motion and allowed counsel
for the Plaintiff to file the sur-reply and any additional declarations by
December 20, 2024. 
 
On November 18, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a Sur-Reply in opposition to the Motion to Compel Arbitration.
On that same date, Plaintiff also filed a supplemental declaration in support
of that Sur-Reply. 
 
II. ANALYSIS 
 
A.   
Plaintiff’s
Sur-Reply Brief
 
As
referenced in Plaintiff’s sur-reply, this Court previously stated that unless
Plaintiff is able to show that Defendants acted in bad faith or with trick or
misrepresentation, he is bound by the document he signed. Plaintiff argues that
Defendant regularly provided Spanish translations of other important documents
affecting Plaintiff’s rights without being asked. Notably, Plaintiff refers to
the most recent document he was provided in Spanish entitled, RESUMEN SOBRE LA
TERMINACION DE BENEFICIOUS” (i.e., Summary of Termination Benefits) which he
states Defendant provided him with when he was terminated. Plaintiff argues
that this practice demonstrates that: (1) Defendant knew Plaintiff needed
Spanish translations to understand important documents; (2) Defendant had the
capability and resources to provide translations; and (3) Defendant chose to
withhold translation only for the arbitration agreement. 
 
In
making his argument, Plaintiff relies on three cases including, Carmona v.
Lincoln Millennium Car Wash, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 74 (“Carmona”),
Subcontracting Concepts (CT), LLC v. De Melo (2019) 34 Cal.App.5th 201
(“Del Melo”), and Ramos v. Westlake Services LLC (2015) 242
Cal.App.4th 674 (“Ramos”). In Carmona, the Plaintiffs could
neither speak nor read English, but were presented their work applications in English.
The company they were employed by provided the enforceability clause in English
only despite knowing the plaintiffs required Spanish translations because they
provided some translation. (Carmona, supra, 226 Cal.App.4th at 85.)
Thus, the Court of Appeal for the Second District found that this elevated the
procedural unconscionability to a higher degree as the plaintiffs were
surprised by the enforceability clause. (Ibid.)
 
In
De Melo, the Court of Appeal for the First District found a moderate
level of procedural unconscionability when a plaintiff who was not fluent in
English was presented legal documents written in English, despite him not
understanding what arbitration was, and no one at the company explaining to him
the meaning of any of the 27 clauses in the five-page agreement, including the
arbitration clause. (Del Melo, supra, 34 Cal.App.5th at 211.) Additionally,
in Ramos, a plaintiff relied on a Spanish translation of an English
contract that did not include the arbitration agreement. 
 
Here,
the Court does not find that any of the above cases are directly on point with
the case at bar. There are no facts or evidence that the employment contract
was in Spanish except for the arbitration clause, or that Brightview was under
the impression that Plaintiff only spoke or read Spanish. In fact, the evidence
in the reply brief indicates that Brightview was under the impression that
Plaintiff spoke and understood English. Additionally, many of the cases
referenced presented the arbitration clause on a non-negotiable,
take-it-or-leave-it basis, with little or no time for review. However, as
discussed at the previous hearing, a declaration submitted by Brightview
informed the Court that that employees were afforded an unlimited amount of
time to review the Arbitration Agreement, review it as many times as they want,
and can ask any questions to Defendant’s HR professional that they may have
before signing. (Robinson Decl., ¶¶ 5-6.)
 
Thus,
the Court GRANTS the arbitration motion, as there is not sufficient evidence of
bad faith. There is evidence of a degree of procedural unconscionability as
there is in almost every arbitration agreement, but there is little substantive
unconscionability shown and the opposing party bears the burden of providing an
unconscionability defense to an arbitration agreement.  Mr. Lopez’ additional declaration indicates
that he had Spanish-speaking co-workers and that HR staff also spoke Spanish,
but he does not indicate that the asked about his onboarding documents or sought
a translation before he signed employment-related documents including the
subject arbitration agreement.  
 
IV. CONCLUSION
 
            For the foregoing reasons, this
Court’s tentative ruling is to GRANT Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration. 
 
            Defendant is ordered to give notice.

 
 
 