 Case Number:  24TRCV01882    Hearing Date:   January 2, 2025    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    January 2, 2025¿¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   24TRCV01882
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Nabila E. Bautista Avelar, et al. v. Toyota
Motor Sales, U.S.A. Inc., et al.
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant,
Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiffs,
Nabila E. Bautista Avelar and Yony Valenty Montepeque Del Cid.
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                           Not Set. 
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                                  (1) Defendant’s Motion to
Vacate this Court’s September 9, 2024 Order denying TMS’ motion for protective
order
 
Tentative Rulings:                     (1) ARGUE
 
¿¿ 
¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.    Factual¿¿ 
 
On June 5, 2024, Plaintiffs, Nabila E. Bautista Avelar and
Yony Valenty Montepeque Del Cid (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint
against Defendant, Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc., and DOES 1 through 10. The
complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Violation of Song-Beverly Act –
Breach of Express Warranty; (2) Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of
Implied Warranty; and (3) Violation of the Song-Beverly Act section 1793.2. 
 
On July 31, 2024, Defendant, Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A.,
Inc. (“Toyota”) notes that Plaintiffs electronically served it with sixty-seven
(67) special interrogatories along with a “Declaration of Plaintiffs’ Counsel
Donald Mahnke Re: Plaintiffs Nabila E. Bautista Avelar and Yony Valenty
Montepeque Del Cid’s Additional Special Interrogatories.” Toyota moved for a
protective order seeking a ruling to find the number of specially prepared
interrogatories propounded by Plaintiffs “unwarranted” despite the
representations made in Plaintiffs’ declaration.  While the Court’s tentative ruling for the
September 9 hearing on TMS’ motion was to grant the protective order, TMS
counsel failed to appear and the Court took oral argument from plaintiff’s counsel
that persuaded the Court to deny the motion. 

 
            On September 23, 2024, Defendant
filed a Motion  for Relief under Code of
Civil Procedure Section 473(b) for Defendant’s Failure to Appear at Hearing on
Defendant’s Motion for Protective Order. Defendant Toyota requested this court
re-set the hearing date to allow its counsel to attend and be heard. This Court
GRANTED that motion on October 29, 2024 , but did not vacate the September 9
order because the 473(b) motion did not request to vacate or to reconsider the
September 9 ruling.  Thereafter,
Defendant Toyota filed a Motion to Vacate this Court’s September 9, 2024 ruling
denying the Protective Order. 
 
B.   
Procedural 
 
On December 9, 2024,
Defendant Toyota filed this Motion to Vacate
the Court’s September 9, 2024 Order.  On
November 18, 2024, the Plaintiffs filed an opposition brief. On December 24,
2024, Defendant Toyota filed a reply brief.  
 
II. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ ¿ 
              The
Court will hear oral argument on the motion to vacate the September 9
order.  While the moving papers discuss
TMS’ mistake or inadvertence in failing to attend the September 9 hearing, the
motion to vacate provides little of substance as to why some of the special
interrogatories are needless or excessive or duplicative given the facts of this
case.  Does TMS intend to answer the
first 35, or the last 35, or every other special interrogatory?  Or, given the time and effort expended to
have now 3 hearings before answering any of the interrogatories, does TMS have
some other proposed ruling in mind?  Can
the parties agree that the Legislature’s intervening change in the law
regarding initial discovery exchanges under AB 1755 would be followed
instead?  The Court will entertain
argument.  