 Case Number:  23STCV00018    Hearing Date:   September 5, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGDefendants/Cross-Complainants Yigal Hay and Lillian Hay’s Motion to Set Aside Default and for Leave to Defend Action is GRANTED.Defendants/Cross-Complainants Yigal Hay and Lillian Hay’s Answer is deemed filed as of the date of entry of this order.Defendants/Cross-Complainants Yigal Hay and Lillian Hay to give notice. REASONINGDefendants/Cross-Complainants Yigal Hay and Lillian Hay (“Defendants”) move the Court for an order vacating the default entered against them on January 2, 2024, January 23, 2024, and January 29, 2024, on the ground that service occurred in violation of rule 1.21 of the California Rules of Court, Defendants’ failure to file an answer was the result of attorney error, and Plaintiff’s counsel had an ethical and legal obligation to give defense counsel notice before requesting entry of default.On April 6, 2023, Defendants filed their cross-complaint against Plaintiff, which put Plaintiff on notice that they were represented by counsel in this action. The case docket shows several attempts by Plaintiff to enter Defendants default after that date, but the attempts were rejected by the clerk due to failure to file a proof of service. On November 29, 2023, Plaintiff filed proofs of service showing that Defendant Yigal Hay was served by personal service on November 28, 2023, and Defendant Lillian Hay was served by substituted service on her husband on the same date. Rule 1.21(a) of the California Rules of Court provides that “[w]henever a document is required to be served on a party, the service must be made on the party’s attorney if the party is represented.” Plaintiff’s opposition arguments are confusing, as he merely states that rule 1.21 does not apply here, and defense counsel should have offered to accept service, but this is not the rule. Notably, it “is now well-acknowledged that an attorney has an ethical obligation to warn opposing counsel that the attorney is about to take an adversary’s default” (Lasalle v. Vogel (2019) 36 Cal.App.5th 127, 135), and the Court is not inclined to condone a default taken without notice when Plaintiff’s counsel was well aware that Defendants were represented by counsel.Moreover, even if service were proper, Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b), provides that “the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any [] resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a default judgment . . . unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.” Defense counsel states that he believed Defendants had not yet been served, which caused his failure to respond to the complaint. (Mot., Zadeh Decl. ¶ 9.) It would seem that Defendants did not understand they had been served with a new action or that they needed to respond given they had filed a cross-complaint, and it was their attorney’s responsibility to become aware of the facts that would indicate a need to answer; thus, the Court finds that Defendants have adequately set forth a mistake based on attorney fault. Notably, “the text of section 473, subdivision (b) does not require an explication of reasons as a prerequisite to mandatory relief.” (Martin Potts & Associates, Inc. v. Corsair, LLC (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 432, 438.) Counsel has attested to his mistake, and this is enough to warrant setting aside the default. (See ibid.) Further, Defendants have provided their proposed answer with the motion. (Mot., Zadeh Decl. ¶ 14, Ex. 7.) Accordingly, Defendants/Cross-Complainants Yigal Hay and Lillian Hay’s Motion to Set Aside Default and for Leave to Defend Action is GRANTED. Defendants/Cross-Complainants Yigal Hay and Lillian Hay’s Answer is deemed filed as of the date of entry of this order.