 Case Number:  24STCV03702    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


January 13, 2025




CASE NUMBER


24STCV03702




MOTION 


Motion to Compel Arbitration




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Bay
  Cities Furnace & Air Conditioning Co.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Kenneth Lamar Smith



 
MOTION
              Defendant
Bay Cities Furnace & Air Conditioning Co. (“Defendant”) moves to compel
arbitration with Plaintiff Kenneth Lamar Smith (“Plaintiff”).  Plaintiff opposes the motion.
ANALYSIS
The moving party
on a petition to compel arbitration “bears the burden of proving the existence
of a valid arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, while a
party opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of
the evidence any fact necessary to its defense.  The trial court sits as
the trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other
documentary evidence, and any oral testimony the court may receive at its
discretion, to reach a final determination.” 
(Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836,
842, internal quotations and citations omitted.)  
Defendant presents
an arbitration agreement Plaintiff signed. 
The arbitration agreement provides Plaintiff agrees to arbitrate “any
dispute that [Defendant] may have against [Plaintiff] or that [Plaintiff] may
have against: (1) [Defendant]; (2) its officers, directors, principals,
shareholders, members, owners, employees, or agents; (3) [Defendant]’s benefit
plans or the plan’s sponsors, fiduciaries, administrators, affiliates, or
agents; and (4) all successors and assigns of any of them.”  (Declaration of Wendy Parker, Exhibit A, ¶ 2.)  Accordingly, Defendant has met its burden to
show an arbitration agreement exists, which applies to Plaintiff’s claims.
Plaintiff asserts
representative claims under the Labor Code Private Attorneys General Act of
2004 (PAGA).  However, the arbitration
agreement requires Plaintiff to bring claims “on an Individualized Basis.”  (Parker Decl., Exhibit A, ¶ 7.)  In opposition, Plaintiff also argues Defendant
fails to show the Federal Arbitration Act (FAA) applies.  But the arbitration agreement Plaintiff
signed specifies the FAA does govern.  (Id.,
Exhibit A, ¶ 1.)  A choice of law
provision in an arbitration agreement is enforceable.  As such, the FAA
applies in the instant action..  
Plaintiff also cites
Balderas v. Fresh Start Harvesting, Inc. (2024) 101 Cal.App.5th 533 (Balderas)
in support of his contentions.  In that
case, the plaintiff sued her former employer under PAGA on behalf of 500 other
current and former employees.  (Id.,
at p. 536.)  In her complaint, the
plaintiff alleged she was not suing in her individual capacity but rather only
in her representative capacity under PAGA. 
(Ibid.)  The Court of
Appeal held the plaintiff need not assert an individual claim to proceed under
PAGA.  (Id., p. 539.) However, in
this case, Plaintiff asserts an individual claim, as well as a representative
claim under PAGA.  (See Complaint, p.
8.)  As such, Balderas is not on
point.  In any event, a recent decision,
the Court of Appeal in Leeper v. Shipt, Inc., 2024 WL 5251619 (Dec. 30,
2024) (Leeper) distinguished Balderas and held arbitration was
proper even though the plaintiff sought only non-individual penalties because
all PAGA lawsuits consist of an individual component.  (Id., at *1, *3.)
Pursuant to Viking
River Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana (2022) 596 U.S. 639, Defendant is “entitled
to enforce the agreement insofar as it mandated arbitration of [Plaintiff]’s
individual PAGA claim.”  (Id., at
p. 662.)  Plaintiff must arbitrate his
individual claim under PAGA.  Therefore,
the motion to compel arbitration is granted. 
The Court stays Plaintiff’s representative claim pending
arbitration.  (Leeper, supra,
WL 5251619, at *6.) 
Defendant is ordered to provide notice of
this order and to file proof of service of same.
 