 Case Number:  23NWCV00656    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  C VARGAS, ET AL. v. HYUNDAI MOTOR AMERICA
CASE
NO.:  22NWCV00656
HEARING:
 7/17/24 @ 10:30 A.M. 
 
#9
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff Aida Solares Vargas and William Solares Vargas’ motion to
compel further responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One is GRANTED
in part as set forth below. No sanctions are awarded. 
 
Moving Party to give NOTICE. 
 
 
This is a Song-Beverly action. This hearing
is a continuation from June 12, 2024 when the court ordered the parties to
submit a joint statement of issues in dispute. 
The parties submitted a joint statement on July 2, 2024, and there appear
to be unresolved issues regarding Requests for Production of Documents, Set One,
numbers 37-41
and 45-46. Plaintiffs withdraw RFP No. 18. 
Plaintiffs also assert that Defendant’s 601-page document production
does not identify which documents are responsive to which documents. 
 
First,
any documents produced in response to demand for inspection shall be identified
with the specific request number to which the documents respond. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.280, subd. (a).) Defendant must comply with this requirement
within 30 days. 
 
As
to motions to compel further document responses, moving parties must file
evidence showing good cause based on specific facts that the requested matter
is admissible evidence, or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of such evidence. (Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Super. Ct.
(1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 223-24.) "[E]ven when no . . . supporting
affidavits are filed . . .good cause may be found in the pleadings theretofore
filed in the action." (Greyhound Corp. 
v.  Super.  Ct.  (1961) 56 Cal.2d 355, 389.) If “good cause”
is shown by the moving party, the burden is then on the responding party to
justify any objections made to document disclosure. (Kirkland v. Super. Ct. (Guess?, Inc.) (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 92, 98.)
 
Request
numbers 37-41 seek documents related to OBDII codes, vehicle symptom codes,
vehicle component repair codes, customer complaint codes, and labor operation
codes issued generated or utilized by Defendant.  
 
In
the joint statement, Plaintiffs state that they will accept tables that set
forth all applicable codes and what those codes mean, not a subset of codes
chosen by Defendant. Plaintiffs further state they have a right to discover
what information the dealerships used and what information the dealerships did
not use. 
 
The
Court determines that the requests are overbroad.  The responses shall be limited to repair
codes generated by the repair of the Subject Vehicle.  
 
Accordingly,
the motion to compel further response to RFP Nos. 37-41 is GRANTED in
part.  
 
Request
numbers 45-46 request similar consumer complaints of other 2017 Hyundai Elantra
vehicles with the same or similar nonconformities.  
 
In
their moving papers, Plaintiffs state that the information sought by Plaintiffs
regarding other similar vehicle complaints may prove a widespread defect or
nonconformity, show when it rose, or demonstrate Defendant’s knowledge of
widespread problems and Defendant’s failure to act despite its knowledge. 
 
In
opposition, Defendant argues that the requests seek irrelevant documents about
other consumers’ vehicles that have no relation to Plaintiffs’ claims in this
case. 
 
The
Court determines that the requests are overbroad.  The responses shall be limited to the
specific defects and nonconformities identified in Plaintiff’s repair orders
for vehicles of the same year, make, and model sold in California.  
 
Accordingly,
the motion to compel further response to RFP Nos. 45-46 is GRANTED in
part.  
 
Sanctions
 
In a
motion to compel further discovery responses, the court shall impose a monetary sanction
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (h).) 
 
Because of the mixed
ruling, the Court will not award sanctions. 
 
 