 Case Number:  22NWCV01401    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  C SCHUBERT INVESTMENTS INC. v. ALLAN
ROBERTO TAY, ET AL. 
CASE NO.:  22NWCV01401
HEARING:   7/17/24
@ 10:30 A.M.
 
#8
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Joe A. Nunez, Kevin D. Poush, and Jason E. Barth’s motion to be relieved
as counsel for Bellator Roofing, Inc. is CONTINUED to Wednesday, August 7, 2024
at 10:30 A.M. in Dept. SE-C.  
 
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
The motion is unopposed as of July 15, 2024. 
 
 
Joe A. Nunez, Kevin D. Poush, and Jason E.
Barth move to be relieved as counsel for Bellator Roofing, Inc.
 
Good
cause exists to grant the motion based on any of the grounds under Rules of
Professional Conduct Rule 3-700(C). Rule 3-700(c) provides that an attorney may
withdraw based on any of the following: (1) The client (a) insists upon
presenting a claim or defense that is not warranted under existing law and
cannot be supported by good faith argument for an extension, modification, or
reversal of existing law, or (b) seeks to pursue an illegal course of conduct,
or (c) insists that the member pursue a course of conduct that is illegal or
that is prohibited under these rules or the State Bar Act, or (d) by other
conduct renders it unreasonably difficult for the member to carry out the
employment effectively, or (e) insists, in a matter not pending before a tribunal,
that the member engage in conduct that is contrary to the judgment and advice
of the member but not prohibited under these rules or the State Bar Act, or (f)
breaches an agreement or obligation to the member as to expenses or fees. (2)
The continued employment is likely to result in a violation of these rules or
of the State Bar Act; or (3) the inability to work with co-counsel indicates
that the best interests of the client likely will be served by withdrawal; or
(4) The member's mental or physical condition renders it difficult for the
member to carry out the employment effectively; or (5) The client knowingly and
freely assents to termination of the employment; or (6) The member believes in
good faith, in a proceeding pending before a tribunal, that the tribunal will
find the existence of other good cause for withdrawal.
 
The
attorney declaration demonstrates good cause for withdrawal based on the client
filing for bankruptcy the attorneys not receiving payment for their services. However,
there is no indication counsel served defendant Maritza Tay with notice of
motion and motion, declaration, and proposed order, and Maritza Tay has
appeared in this action. 
 
The
motion is CONTINUED to Wednesday, August 7, 2024 at 10:30 A.M.  Counsel shall file proof of service upon
Maritza Tay by July 26, 2024.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 