 Case Number:  23VECV04809    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  T ANDIA V GODADDY 23VECV04809
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant GoDaddy.com, LLC’s Motion to Dismiss
GRANTED. The case is dismissed without prejudice. Defendant GoDaddy.com,
LLC’s Alternative Motion to Reclassify is MOOT.
Defendant GoDaddy.com, LLC’s
concurrently filed Demurrer and Motion to Strike portions of the Second Amended
Complaint and Request for Judicial Notice are MOOT.  
Defendant GoDaddy.com, LLC’s
Evidentiary Objections are sustained.
Introduction 
Defendant GoDaddy.com, LLC
(Defendant) moved to dismiss or stay Plaintiffs Andia, Inc. (PAI), Nationwide
Telecom, Inc., a Colorado Corporation, (NTICO), Proud Holding Inc. (PHI), Proud
Holding LLC (PHL), Nationwide Telecom Inc., a California Corporation (NTICA),
Nikoo Inc. (Nikoo), and Omid S. Ahmadabadi (Ahmadabadi) (collectively,
Plaintiffs) verified Second Amended Complaint (SAC).  Alternatively, Defendant moved to reclassify
the SAC as a small claims case or limited jurisdiction case.
Defendant concurrently filed a
demurrer and a motion to strike portions of the SAC.  
Procedure 
In the Court’s prior April 3,
2024 ruling, the Court referred to the contract provision at issue as a “venue
selection clause” due to the parties’ arguments that argued venue.  However, the reference to the contract provision
as a “venue selection clause” was limited to the April 3, 2024 hearing and the
motions heard that date.  The
identification of the contract provision as a “venue selection clause” at the
prior hearing is not binding in the instant motion despite Defendant’s
identification of the contract provision as a “venue selection clause” in the
instant motion.  The distinction between
a motion based upon a venue selection clause and a forum selection clause is a
crucial consideration because it determines the party with the burden on the
motion.  Plaintiffs, as opposing parties,
have the burden of proof on a motion to dismiss based upon a forum selection
clause.  (Miller-Leigh LLC v. Henson
(2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 1143, 1150.) 
However, on a motion to transfer based upon a venue selection clause, the
moving party Defendant has the burden of proof. 
(Mission Imports, Inc. v. Superior Court (1982) 31 Cal.3d 921,
929.)  The Court notes that “a venue
selection clause is purely an intrastate issue involving the selection of a
county in which to hold the trial.  By
contrast, a forum selection clause usually chooses a court from among different
states or nations. [Internal citation omitted.]”  (Alexander v. Superior Court (2003) 114
Cal.App.4th 723, 727.)  Defendant
presented several different versions of the Uniform Terms of Service (UTOS)
which included some form of a contract provision requiring an action to be
filed either in the Superior Court of Maricopa County, Arizona or the United
States District Court for the District of Arizona.  (Jessica Hanyen (Hanyen) Decl. par. 15, Exh.
A (January 6, 2016 UTOS); par. 16, Exh. C (July 13, 2017 UTOS); par. 18, Exh. F
(July 17, 2017 UTOS); par. 19, Exhs. H (October 12, 2020 UTOS) and I (March 2,
2022 UTOS).  The express language in the
March 2, 2022 UTOS states:  “any
controversy excluded from the dispute resolution procedure [relating to binding
arbitration] and class action waiver provisions in this Section (other than an
individual action filed in small claims court) shall be filed only in the
Superior Court of Maricopa County, Arizona, or the United States District Court
for the District of Arizona, and each party hereby irrevocably and
unconditionally consents and submits to the exclusive jurisdiction of such
courts for any such controversy.” 
(Hanyen Decl. par. 19, Exh. I. sec. 22(N).)  Because this action was filed in California
and Defendant argued that the action should have been filed in Arizona, the
contract provision at issue presents an interstate issue, rather than an
intrastate issue.  Because Defendant is
seeking to have the action be heard in Arizona (i.e., a change in state), the
contract provision is a “forum selection” clause.  Because it is a forum selection clause, the
initial burden of proof lies with Plaintiffs despite the fact that Defendant is
the moving party.
Discussion 
The Court presume the validity of
forum selection clauses.  (Richtek USA,
Inc. v. uPI Semiconductor Corp. (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 651, 661.)  An agreement to litigate in a forum outside
California does not deprive California courts of subject matter jurisdiction
but empowers the Court with the discretion to decline exercise of its own
jurisdiction.  (Miller-Leigh LLC v.
Henson (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 1143, 1149.) 
Plaintiffs alleged in their Verified SAC and argued that they had no
notice of the forum selection clause or any agreement that a forum selection
clause may have existed.  (SAC pars.
14-15, 19,  24-32.)  The Court’s review of Plaintiffs’ evidence to
support the contention is limited to the Verified SAC because verified
pleadings are considered admissible evidence. 
Plaintiffs’ submitted a notarized affidavit which redacted the name of
the affiant.  (Pasha Vafaei Decl. par. 6,
Exh. 1. Without disclosure of the affiant’s identity, the affidavit is not seen
as credible.  Further, the affidavit
failed to be signed in California or attest to the truthfulness of the
statements under penalty of perjury under California law, which makes it
inadmissible.  In any event, lack of
notice is a viable defense to a forum selection clause.  (Carnival Cruise Lines, Inc. v. Superior
Court (1991) 234 Cal.App.3d 1019, 1027.) 

Plaintiffs alleged that the
domain name of iranproud.com was purchased from Defendant in November 2005 (SAC
par. 13) and Defendant provided that the domain name became active in or about
August 2006.  (Hanyen Decl. par.
14.)  However, Plaintiffs admittedly
alleged that the domain name was sold to non-party Mehran Kazemeini in
September 2014.  (SAC par. 40.)  Plaintiffs then re-purchased the domain name
in June 2015.  (SAC par. 41.)  Because Plaintiffs did not maintain a
continuity of privity of contract since 2005, any argument or facts related to
the original contract entered in 2005 are irrelevant and need not be
considered.  The Court finds that the
issue of notice of the alleged 2005 legal agreement or UTOS is irrelevant to
the issues presented.  Plaintiffs
argument of lack of notice of the 2005 agreement/UTOS is unpersuasive to
prevent enforcement of the forum selection clause.
Plaintiffs alleged that Defendant
breached their obligations to provide access to the iranproud.com domain name
and the subsequently purchased domain names on October 12, 2023 via a
cancellation notice.  (SAC par. 49, Exh.
9.)  The subsequently purchased domain
names are iranproud.net, iranproud.org, iranproud2.com, iranproud2.net, and
iranproud2.org.  The new domain names
were purchased on September 17, 2017. 
(SAC par. 42 and Hanyen Decl. par. 18, Exh. G (receipt).)  The UTOS in effect at the time of purchase of
the new domain names is the UTOS dated July 17, 2017 (2017 UTOS), which
included a forum selection clause. 
(Hanyen Decl., par. 18, Exh. F: Sec. 25(N).)  Plaintiffs’ SAC again provided that they did
not receive notice of the 2017 UTOS or its forum selection clause.  However, Defendant provided that a process
was in place to review and consent to the UTOS in 2016 and 2017 because customers
had to affirmatively click (or check) the “I agree” box and the UTOS was
hyperlinked to the check-out page and that the purchase of the domain names
would not be effectuated without checking “I agree”.  (Hanyen Decl. pars. 11-12.)  Plaintiffs attempt to dispute the contention
by asserting that the hyperlink did not present any UTOS and/or their payments
were automatically deducted/renewed and the automatic deduction/renewal pages
did not require the checking of an “I agree” box.  The Court finds Hanyen’s testimony that the
2017 UTOS being available on the hyperlink persuasive and discounts Plaintiffs’
allegation otherwise.  Further, the facts
regarding the 2017 purchase of the new domain names were not based upon any
renewal or automatic payment but the new transaction in 2017 purchasing the new
domain names.  Plaintiffs lack of notice
argument as to the 2017 purchase of the new domain names is unpersuasive.  The facts presented are sufficient to show
that Plaintiffs had, at minimum, an opportunity to read the 2017 UTOS when
Plaintiffs purchased anew the new domain names. 
So long as a party had an opportunity to read the agreement/forum
selection clause, the forum selection can be enforced, even if the party did
not read it.  (Schlessinger v. Holland
America, N.V. (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 552, 559.) 
Based upon the 2017 UTOS, there is sufficient grounds to enforce the
forum selection clause.  
Defendant also submitted two
additional UTOS allegedly entered in or about October 2020 (Hanyen Decl. par.
19, Exh. H) and entered in or about March 2022 (Hanyen Decl. par. 19, Exh.
I).  These two UTOS are found not to be
relevant to the claims at issue because the two UTOS related to the purchase of
email services, Secure Sockets Layer certificates and domain protection
services.  These purchases do not appear
to be placed into issue in the SAC.  The
Court did not consider the UTOS attached as Exhibits H and I. 
Plaintiffs argued that
Defendant’s UTOS are not properly authenticated because Defendant cannot
present evidence as to any electronic signature.  However, Defendant presented the receipt for
the purchase of the new domain names in 2017 and provided facts to show that a
receipt would not have been generated unless Plaintiffs clicked the “I agree”
box and purchased the new domain names. 
(Hanyen Decl. par. 18, Exh. G.) 
Plaintiffs’ argument/objection as to lack of authentication is
unpersuasive.  
Plaintiffs then argued that the
contracting party, GoDaddy Inc., in the legal agreement/UTOS allegedly entered
in 2005 was a non-existent corporate entity. 
However, the argument is irrelevant because of the Court’s analysis
above finding that the 2005 legal agreement/UTOS was irrelevant to the claims
at issue.
Plaintiffs failed to meet their
initial burden of proof on the motion to dismiss to show that the forum
selection clause is unenforceable.
The motion to dismiss the action
is GRANTED.
Defendant’s alternative motion to
reclassify to limited jurisdiction or small claims court is MOOT.  
Defendant’s concurrent demurrer
and motion to strike are MOOT.
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.