  Case Number:  22CHCV01146    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2024    Dept:  F43 MOTION FOR RELIEF FROM DISMISSAL
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs
Yolanda Isabel Alejos and Jesus Velez
RESPONDING
PARTY: No response has been filed.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Plaintiffs have
requested relief from the dismissal entered on February 9, 2024.
 
RULING: Motion
is granted.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
Plaintiffs
Yolanda Isabel Alejos and Jesus Velez (Plaintiffs) filed this personal injury action
on November 16, 2022. Defendant Marisol Castro Hernandez (Defendant) was served
on October 26, 2023, with proof of service filed on October 27, 2023. 
 
After
Plaintiffs failed to appear at the Case Management Conference scheduled for
December 28, 2023, an OSC re: Failure to Appear and new Case Management
Conference were set for February 9, 2024. Plaintiffs’ counsel indicates that it
was due to his calendaring error that Plaintiffs did not appear at the December
28 hearing. He again made a calendaring error and failed to appear at the
February 9 hearing.
 
Due to
counsel’s failure to appear at those two hearings, the Court dismissed the
action on February 9, 2024. Plaintiffs are now requesting that the Court grant relief
from the dismissal due to Plaintiffs’ counsel’s excusable neglect and surprise.
 
ANALYSIS
CCP Section
473(b) states as follows:¿ 
“The court may, upon any terms as may be
just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect…Notwithstanding any
other requirements of [§ 473(b)] the court shall, whenever an application for
relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper
form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default
entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result in entry
of a default judgment…unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was
not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect.” 
 
The law favors
hearings on the merits, so any doubts as to the application of CCP § 473 should
be resolved in favor of the party seeking relief from default or dismissal. (See
Shapiro v. Clark (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1139-1140.) 
 
Younger,
Plaintiffs’ counsel, claims that the failure to appear was due to his mistake,
inadvertence, or neglect. He also claims that because of a calendaring failure,
he did not appear at the hearings. 
 
It appears that
the blame for not appearing lies with Plaintiffs’ counsel. The motion filed by
Plaintiffs’ counsel is in the proper form and is accompanied by a sworn
declaration from Plaintiffs’ counsel. The motion was also timely filed, as the
dismissal occurred on February 9, 2024, and Plaintiffs filed this motion on
July 24, 2024, which is within six months of the dismissal.
 
Accordingly,
relief should be granted. The Court grants Plaintiffs’ motion for relief from
dismissal.
 
CONCLUSION
The motion for
relief from dismissal is granted. The Court will set a new date for the Case
Management Conference at the hearing on this motion.
 
Moving party to
give notice.