 Case Number:  23CHCV00053    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2024    Dept:  F43 MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO SPECIAIL
INTERROGATORIES
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
Roberto Delgado
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant General Motors, LLC
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Defendant’s
further responses to certain special interrogatories
 
RULING: The
parties are ordered to meet and confer based on the Court’s Lemon Law discovery
order.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
This action
arises from Plaintiff Roberto Delgado’s (Plaintiff) purchase of an allegedly
defective 2021 Chevrolet Silverado 1500. On January 9, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
Complaint against Defendant General Motors, LLC (Defendant) for violations of
the Song-Beverly Act.
 
Plaintiff
propounded Special Interrogatories, Set One, on Defendant on October 17, 2023. On
November 20, 2023, Defendant served its unverified responses to Plaintiff’s Special
Interrogatories, Set One. Verification was received on January 9, 2024. Plaintiffs
argue that Defendant’s responses were filled with improper boilerplate
objections and were deficient.
 
On June 17,
2024, after this motion had been filed on January 31, 2024, the parties met and
conferred via Zoom. After meeting and conferring, the parties filed a joint
stipulation on July 18, 2024, which indicated that the parties were still at an
impasse for Special Interrogatory Nos. 2, 7, 8, 12-17, 19-23, and 29.
 
While the
parties have met and conferred, it does not appear that they were aware of the Court’s
Lemon Law discovery order at the time that they met and conferred. That order
should help resolve the discovery issues. 
 
Accordingly, the
Court has reviewed the documents related to this motion and will not decide the
motion on the merits at this time. The Court orders the parties to meet and
confer directly, not by email or letter. Additionally, the parties are ordered
to file a joint statement of remaining issues by a date to be set by the Court.
The joint statement should briefly describe the matters in dispute, followed by
Plaintiffs’ arguments, then Defendant’s arguments.  
 
Prior to
meeting and conferring, the parties should refer to the Court’s discovery order
for lemon law cases for this motion and any future discovery motions in this
case. There is a section in that order regarding interrogatories. The Court’s
discovery order is posted online, along with this Department’s courtroom
information and Final Status Conference Order, all of which the parties are
ordered to review. 
 
ORDER  
1. The parties
are ordered to conduct a meet and confer based on the Court’s Lemon Law
discovery order. 
2. The parties
shall submit a joint statement of the remaining issues as described above. The
format should be as follows: the parties should recite the specific discovery
request at issue, followed by the moving party’s statement of why it should be
compelled, followed by the opposing party’s statement of why it should not be
compelled. To the extent that an argument is repeated for a subsequent request,
the party shall simply refer to the section where the argument was previously
made. 

3. The dates
for the status report and continued hearings will be set at the hearing on this
motion. 
 
4. Moving party
to provide notice. 
 