 Case Number:  24STCV00856    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



AJIM BAKSH,  
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
JUDY NAGY GOETZ, individually and as
  TRUSTEE OF THE NAGY TRUST DATED MAY 10, 1988., et al.,  
 
                        Defendants.
 





      CASE NO.: 24STCV00856
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: SPECIAL MOTION TO
  STRIKE
 
Date:  May 30, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Jury Trial: TBD



 
MOVING PARTIES: Defendant
Judy Nagy Goetz, individually and as trustee of the Nagy Trust Dated May 10,
1988 (“Defendant”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
Ajim Baksh (“Plaintiff”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving, opposition and reply
papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
            Plaintiff initiated this action by filing a complaint
(the “Complaint”) on January 12, 2024 against Defendant, alleging causes of
action for: 1) malicious prosecution; and 2) civil harassment.
 
            As alleged in the Complaint, Defendant owns the real
property located at 5105 Paseo de las Tortugas in Torrance, California
(“Defendant’s Property”), and while she does not reside at Defendant’s Property,
her mother and sister do reside there. (Compl. ¶ 2, 5.) Plaintiff, through
IBMTB, LLC, owns the adjacent property located at t 5109 Paseo de las Tortugas
in Torrance, California (“Plaintiff’s Property”). (Compl. ¶ 4.) Beginning in
2019, Plaintiff started renovating his property in order for his daughter to
reside there (the “Project”). (Id. ¶¶ 4, 6.) Defendant opposed the
Project by objecting to the City of Torrance’s approval of an interior removal
and one-story addition to the Plaintiff’s Property. (Id. at ¶ 7.)  The Complaint further alleges that Defendant
harasses the construction crew and has told Plaintiff that “his kind” was not
welcome. (Ibid.) 
 
            On November 20, 2019, the City of Torrance granted
Plaintiff’s Minor Hillside Exemption (“MHE”) in order to perform renovations to
Plaintiff’s Property. (Id. at ¶ 8.) Upon submitting plans to construct a
pool and deck, Plaintiff faced opposition from Defendant and other neighbors,
claiming that the proposed pool would impede their view and cause a loss in
privacy. (Id. at ¶ 9.) In light of their concerns, Plaintiff redesigned
the pool, but Defendant continued her opposition on the basis that the proposed
pool would undermine the stability of the hillside that their properties
shared. (Ibid.) In order to secure the permit for the proposed pool,
Plaintiff commissioned a geotechnical report by Hamilton & Associates,
whereby soil samples were taken for laboratory testing; the report concluded
that there was no danger of liquefaction in case of an earthquake. (Id.
at ¶ 10.) The report further concluded that the proposed pool could be safely
constructed and proposed the use of steel piles to ensure the stability of the
hillside. (Id. at ¶¶ 11-12.) 
Defendant maintained that the proposed pool posed a risk of landslides
based on a landslide that had occurred in the area in 1986, but this landslide
had occurred a quarter mile from Plaintiff’s Property. (Id. at ¶ 13.) 
 
            On May 18, 2021, the City of Torrance approved
Plaintiff’s revised plans for the proposed pool. (Id. at ¶ 14.) On May
28, 2021 and June 1, 2021, neighbors appealed the grant of Plaintiff’s MHE. (Id.
at ¶ 15.) At the appeal hearing, the planning commission unanimously approved
the Project and found that the Project was exempt from CEQA under the Class 3
exemption for “new constructions or conversion of small structures.” (Id.
at ¶ 15.) Thereafter, Defendant appealed this approval to the City Council,
contending that the proposed pool would obstruct her ocean view and weaken the
stability of the hillside. (Id. at ¶ 16.) Defendant further argued that
the proposed Project was not exempt from CEQA. (Ibid.) These arguments
were raised again at the October 26, 2021 City Council hearing, and with regard
to Defendant’s geotechnical argument, Plaintiff informed the City Council that
a geotechnical report had already been submitted. (Id. at ¶ 18.)
Ultimately, the City Council approved the Project and confirmed that the
construction of the pool and deck was exempt from CEQA. (Id. at ¶¶
18-19.) 
 
            Following the City Council’s decision on October 26,
2021, Defendant filed a Petition for Writ of Administrative Mandate and
Preliminary Injunction, titled Nagy Trust vs. City of Torrance et. al,
LASC Case No. 21STCP03833, contending that the proposed Project fell under a
CEQA exception to the MHE due to geotechnical concerns. (Id. at ¶ 20.)
The petition was ultimately denied after a trial on the merits. (Id. at
¶ 21.) 
 
            On February 15, 2024, Defendant filed her answer to the Complaint.
On March 5, 2024, Defendant filed the instant special motion to strike pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure § 425.16 (“Anti-SLAPP Motion”).  On May 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed his opposition
to the Anti-SLAPP Motion, and on May 9, 2024, Defendant filed her reply.  
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
            Defendant objects to various portions of the evidence submitted by
Plaintiff in opposition to the Anti-SLAPP Motion. It is noted that these
objections are not enumerated.  As to the
objections raised to the Declaration of Ajim Baksh, the Court rules as follows:

 
The first objection to the statement regarding the
photograph attached as Exhibit 6 and the photograph itself is sustained because
the evidence is not relevant. (See Baksh Decl. ¶ 6, pg. 2:19-22; Compendium of
Exhibits (“COE”), Exh. 6.) The sixth objection to remarks Defendant made to
SoCal Edison and what a SoCal Edison employee stated to Plaintiff is sustained
because these remarks are hearsay. (See Baksh Decl. ¶ 23, pg. 5:25-27.) The
seventh objection to Plaintiff’s explanation for why Defendant removed the
floodlights pointed at Plaintiff’s properties is sustained in part because the
statement is speculative. (See Baksh Decl. ¶ 26, pg. 6:15-16.) Thus, the cited
evidence will not be considered in the Court’s analysis. As to the remaining
objections raised to Plaintiff’s declaration, they are overruled. 
 
            With regard to the objections to the
declarations submitted by Juan Soto and Omar Valdez, the Court overrules these
objections in their entirety. 
 
            Lastly, as to the objections raised
against portions of the Declaration of Ernesto F. Aldover, the first objection
is overruled, and the second objection is sustained because it improperly
contains legal argument. (See Aldover Decl. ¶ 5, pg. 18:22-25.) Thus, the cited
portion will not be considered in the Court’s analysis. 
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
            In connection with her request for
judicial notice filed on March 5, 2024, Plaintiff requests that the Court take
judicial notice of the following documents: (1) Landslide Inventory Map of the
Palos Verdes Peninsula; (2) Pages from City or Torrance 2017-2022 Local Hazard
Mitigation Plan – Final Plan; (3) State of California Office of the Secretary
of State Statement of Information Limited Liability Company for IBMTB
Properties, LLC; (4) Case Summary from the Los Angeles Court website for Case
No. 21STCP03833; (5) Verified Petition for writ of Administrative Mandate and
for Preliminary Injunction (Case No. 21STCP03833); (6) Petitioners The Nagy
Trust and Judith Nagy Goetz, Trustee’s Trial Brief in Support of Petition for
Writ of Mandate (Case No. 21STCP03833); (7) Notice of Order Denying
Petitioners’ Writ of Mandate (Case No. 21STCP03833); (8) Community Development
Director Approval of Case No. MHE20- 01086, dated May 17, 2021; (9) Minutes of
a Regular Meeting of the Torrance Planning Commission for Agenda Item 8C: Minor
Hillside Exemption – MHE20-01086, dated August 4, 2021; (10) Community
Development Director Recommendations for Agenda Item 8C: Minor Hillside
Exemption – MHE20-01086, dated August 4, 2021; (11) Planning Commission and
Assistant City Manager Recommendation on Agenda Item 10A: Consider appeal of
Planning Commission approval of a Minor Hillside Exemption (MHE20-01086), dated
September 14, 2021; (12)  Resolution No. 2021-86 – Fully Executed, dated
October 26, 2021; (13). Staff PowerPoint presentation for 5109 Paseo de las
Tortugas MHE20-01086, dated October 26, 2021.
 
As to items 1-3 and 8-13, the Court takes judicial
notice of these documents pursuant to Evidence Code § 452(c). With regard to
items 4-7, the Court takes judicial notice of these documents pursuant to
Evidence Code § 452(d).
 
On May 9, 2024, Defendant filed a supplemental
request for judicial notice. Defendant asks the Court to take judicial notice
of the following government webpage: https://www.torranceca.gov/our-city/communitydevelopment/environmental.
The request is granted pursuant to Evidence Code § 452(h). 
            
DISCUSSION
¿ The anti-SLAPP statute is “a mechanism
through which complaints that arise from the exercise of free speech rights can
be evaluated at an early stage of the litigation process and resolved
expeditiously.” (Simmons v. Allstate Ins. Co. (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th
1068, 1073 [internal quotations omitted].) Courts use a two-step process for
determining whether an action is a strategic lawsuit against public
participation, or a SLAPP. First, the court determines whether the defendant
has established that the challenged claim arises from protected speech. (Equilon
Enterprises v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 67.) If such a
showing has been made, the court “determines whether the plaintiff has
demonstrated a probability of prevailing on the claim.” (Ibid.)
 
Prong
One: Protected Activity
            “[T]he only thing the defendant needs to establish to invoke the
protection of the SLAPP statute is that the challenged lawsuit arose from an
act on the part of the defendant in furtherance of her right of petition or
free speech.” (Fox Searchlight Pictures, Inc. v. Paladino (2001) 89
Cal.App.4th 294, 307.)
 
            Code of Civil Procedure § 425.16,
subd. (e) states: 
An act in furtherance of a person’s right of petition or free speech
includes the following:
(1) any written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative,
executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized
by law, (2) any written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an
issue under consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial
body, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (3) any written or
oral statement or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum
in connection with an issue of public interest, or (4) any other conduct in
furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the
constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an
issue of public interest.
 
In determining whether a cause of action arises
from protected conduct, the court focuses on “the allegedly wrongful and
injury-producing conduct that provides the foundation for the claims.” (Castleman
v. Sagaser (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 481, 490-491.) “[T]he critical
consideration is whether the cause of action is based on the defendant’s
protected free speech or petitioning activity.” (Navellier v. Sletten
(2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 89 [emphasis in original].) In making this determination,
the court considers “the pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits
stating the facts upon which the liability or defense is based.” (Ibid.)
 
Here, Defendant contends that Plaintiff’s claims
for malicious prosecution and civil harassment arise from a protected activity.  The Court agrees. 
 
As to the malicious
prosecution claim, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant’s petition for writ of
mandate and preliminary injunction pursuant to CEQA constituted malicious
prosecution. (Compl. ¶¶ 22-32.) The court in Jarrow Formulas, Inc. v.
LaMarche (2003) 31 Cal.4th 728 stated that “[b]y definition, a malicious
prosecution suit alleges that the defendant committed a tort by filing a
lawsuit…[a]ccordingly, every Court of Appeal that has addressed the question
has concluded that malicious prosecution causes of action fall within the
purview of the anti-SLAPP statute.” (Jarrow at 735; internal citations
omitted.) Notably, Plaintiff does not assert any argument opposing this position.
Therefore, the Court finds that the first cause of action in the Complaint arises
from a protected activity.  
 
With regard to the second
cause of action for civil harassment, Plaintiff argues that it arises from
protected speech because the alleged harassing conduct includes making
complaints to the City of Torrance, filing administrative appeals to hinder
Plaintiff’s Project, and proceeding with the underlying CEQA action. (Compl. ¶¶
35-37.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff
argues that the second cause of action does not arise from a protected activity
because the harassing conduct purportedly perpetrated by Defendant towards
Plaintiff included verbal taunts, intimidation and physical acts. (Opposition
at pp. 11-12.) Plaintiff contends that this conduct had no connection with an
official proceeding or was of public interest. (Id. at pg. 12.) These arguments are unavailing because,
while the second cause of action consists of a mix of protected activities and
non-protected activities, the alleged protected conduct is not merely
incidental to the unprotected conduct. (See Haight Ashbury Free Clinics, Inc. v. Happening House
Ventures (2010)
184 Cal. App. 4th 1539, 1551.) In fact, Plaintiff’s civil harassment claim is
based in significant part on Defendant’s protected petitioning activity in the
underlying CEQA action as well as the administrative appeals through the City
of Torrance because it was allegedly part of Defendant’s campaign to prevent
Plaintiff from enjoying Plaintiff’s Property. (Compl. ¶¶ 15-16, 18, 20, 34-37.)
Even though the allegations suggest that Defendant is driven by personal
animosity against Plaintiff and engaged in allegedly repugnant behavior, this
does not undermine the fact that the protected activity is not incidental to
the unprotected activity. (Haight Ashbury Free Clinics, Inc., supra, 184
Cal. App. 4th at 1551.)
 
Accordingly, the Court
finds that both the first and the second causes of action of the Complaint arise
from protected activity. 
 
Prong
Two: Probability of Prevailing
To establish the likelihood of prevailing, a “plaintiff must demonstrate that the
complaint is both legally sufficient and supported by a sufficient prima facie
showing of facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by
the plaintiff is credited.” (Premier Med. Mgmt.
Sys., Inc. v. California Ins. Guarantee Assn. (2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 464,
476 [internal quotations omitted].) In making the prong two determination,
“the court shall consider the
pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits stating the facts upon
which the liability or defense is based.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b)(2).) “The court does not, however, weigh
[defendant’s] evidence against the plaintiff’s, in terms of either
credibility or persuasiveness. Rather, the defendant’s evidence is
considered with a view toward whether it defeats the plaintiff’s showing as a
matter of law, such as by establishing a defense or the absence of a necessary
element.” (1-800 Contacts, Inc. v. Steinberg (2003)
107 Cal.App.4th 568, 585.) 
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff is unable to
establish a likelihood of prevailing on either his malicious prosecution claim
or his civil harassment claim. The Court will address each in turn. 
 
A.    Malicious Prosecution
Generally, “to establish
a cause of action for the malicious prosecution of a civil proceeding, a
plaintiff must plead and prove that the prior action (1) was commenced by or at
the direction of the defendant and was pursued to a legal termination in
[plaintiff’s] favor [citations]; (2) was brought without probable cause
[citations]; and (3) was initiated with malice [citations].” (Lanz v.
Goldstone (2015) 243 Cal.App.4th 441, 458 quoting Bertero v. National
General Corp. (1974) 13 Cal.3d 43, 50.)  “[T]he termination must
reflect on the plaintiff's innocence of the alleged wrongful conduct.” (Garcia
v. Rosenberg (2019) 42 Cal. App. 5th 1050, 1058.)
 
The following is the
Court’s analysis of each element of this cause of action: 
 
                                
i.        
Termination in Plaintiff’s Favor
Here, Plaintiff has shown
that the underlying CEQA action was terminated on the merits in his favor. (Opposition,
RJN, Exh. 3-4.) Thus, this element has been met. 
 


 
                               
ii.        
Brought without Probable Cause
“An action is deemed to
have been pursued without probable cause if it was not legally tenable when
viewed in an objective manner as of the time the action was initiated or while
it was being prosecuted.” (Sycamore Ridge Apartments LLC v. Naumann
(2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 1385, 1402.)
 
Here, Defendant argues
that she had probable cause in proceeding with the underlying CEQA action. Within
that action, Defendant raised two arguments. First, she asserted that the
location exception precluded the City of Torrance from granting Plaintiff an
MHE, and she reasoned that a further environmental investigation was needed.
(Opposition, Exh. 2 at pg. 2, lns 22-24.) Defendant asserts that this argument
was made in good faith because the neighboring hillside was prone to landslides.
(Motion at pg. 15; Goetz Decl. ¶ 3; Defendant’s compendium of exhibits: Exhs.
H, X.) In opposition, Plaintiff points out that this location exception was
inapplicable in the underlying CEQA action because such an exception only
applied to environmental resources, not proximity to hazards. (Berkeley
Hills Watershed Coalition v. City of Berkeley (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 880, 891.) Thus, this
theory was pursued without probable cause. 
 
Consequently, Plaintiff
has established a probability of prevailing on at least one theory presented in
the underlying CEQA action as the basis for his malicious prosecution claim. (Dunning v.
Clews
(2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 156, 173.) Therefore, in the interest of judicial
economy, the Court declines to address whether Defendant’s alternative theory
under “unusual circumstances” was brought without probable cause.  
                             
iii.        
Intention with Malice
“The malice element goes
to the defendant's subjective intent in initiating or continuing
the prior action. It is not limited to actual hostility
or ill will and may be present when
proceedings are instituted or maintained primarily
for an improper purpose.” (Olivares, supra, 40
Cal.App.5th 343, 356.)
 
            Defendant
argues that her concerns regarding the integrity of the hillside was what
prompted the underlying CEQA action. (Motion at pp. 16-18.) In light of
Plaintiff’s evidence highlighting Defendant’s alleged prejudice and animosity,
the Court is not persuaded by this argument. As presented by Plaintiff, Plaintiff
asserts that Defendant has implied that she will continue her conduct to
prevent Plaintiff’s Project from being completed and has stated “your kind does
not belong here” and “we don’t want you here” to Plaintiff. (Baksh Decl. ¶¶ 17,
19.) This evidence presents an insight into Defendant’s subjective intent in
proceeding with the underlying CEQA action, and it undermines Defendant’s
contention that she was only seeking to preserve the integrity of the hillside.
Therefore, the Court finds that this element has been met. 
 
            Accordingly,
because Plaintiff has established a likelihood of success on his malicious
prosecution claim, the Anti-SLAPP Motion as to this cause of action is DENIED.  
 
B.    Civil Harassment
             Defendant argues that Plaintiff is unable to
prevail on his civil harassment claim on the ground that Plaintiff failed to
comply with Code of Civil Procedure § 527.6, which mandates the use of Judicial
Council forms when seeking injunctive relief under this statute. (Motion at pg.
20.) Additionally, Defendant argues that Plaintiff is improperly seeking
monetary damages for his civil harassment claim. (Id. at pp. 20-21.)
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff contends that Defendant’s
conduct constitutes civil harassment, and that Code of Civil Procedure § 527.6
allows a victim also to recover through other civil remedies. (Opposition at
pp. 15-16.)
 
While
the evidence submitted by Plaintiff supports the notion that Defendant has
harassed Plaintiff, the claim is defective on procedural grounds. As stated in
the Complaint, Plaintiff seeks injunctive relief to prevent the harassing
conduct as well as monetary damages. (Compl. ¶¶ 38-39.) As a result, Plaintiff
in “seeking a civil harassment restraining order [is] confined by the limited
nature of section 527.6 proceedings.” (Olson v. Doe (2022) 12 Cal.5th
669, 683.) Therefore, Plaintiff must use the mandatory petition created by the
Judicial Council (CH-100) if he seeks a restraining order against Plaintiff.
Furthermore, “Section 527.6 was passed to supplement the
existing common law torts of invasion of privacy and intentional infliction of
emotional distress by providing quick relief to harassment victims threatened
with great or irreparable injury,” not to supplant those complementary
remedies. (Grant v. Clampitt (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 586, 591.) 
 
            Considering Plaintiff is seeking injunctive relief
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 527.6 within this action and has not
filed the requisite form to initiate the proper proceedings, he is unable to
maintain a claim for civil harassment under Section 527.6. Moreover, by
requesting injunctive relief, this is inapposite with typical tort remedies
that could be sought from claims of invasion of privacy or intentional
infliction of emotional distress. (See Olsen, supra, 12 Cal.5th at 682.)
Thus, such tort claims would not be supported under the current complaint.
After all, it is not the Court’s burden to redraft a complaint to presume facts
that have not actually been alleged. (Medical Marijuana, Inc. v.
ProjectCBD.com (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 869, 883.)
 
            Accordingly, because Plaintiff has not
established a likelihood of success on the merits of his second cause of action
for civil harassment, the Anti-SLAPP Motion as to this cause of action is GRANTED.

 
            Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s Anti-SLAPP Motion is
GRANTED as to the first cause of action of the Complaint and DENIED as to the
second cause of action of the Complaint. 
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
        
 Dated this 30th day of May 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



