  Case Number:  21STCV32886    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  56           SUPERIOR COURT OF THE  STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS  ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT        OLLYE G. INGRAM, et al.,                            Plaintiffs,             vs.   ANTHONY    THOMPSON, et al.,                            Defendants.               CASE NO.: 21STCV32886   [TENTATIVE]    ORDER RE: QUASH SUBPOENAS   Date:  May 30, 2024 Time:    8:30 a.m. Dept.    56      AND RELATED CROSS-ACTIONS   MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs   RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant Centaurus  Financial, Inc. (“Defendant”)               The  Court has considered the moving, opposition and reply papers.   BACKGROUND This action arises  out of alleged mishandling of Plaintiffs’ investment property.  The currently operative second amended  complaint (the “SAC”) alleges: (1) breach of fiduciary duty; (2) California  financial elder abuse; (3) Illinois financial elder abuse; (4) breach of  contract; (5) breach of implied duty of good faith and fair dealing; (6) aiding  and abetting breach of fiduciary duty; (7) negligence; (8) violation of  Business & Professions Code sections 17200 and 17500; (9) common law fraud;  and (10) negligent misrepresentation.     On March 13, 2024,  Plaintiffs filed: (1) a motion to quash Defendant Centaurus Financial, Inc’s  Deposition Subpoena for Production of Consumer Records of Plaintiff Farmer  Family Trust to Third Party Fidelity Brokerage Services, LLC (Res. No.:  785664516988, the “Fidelity-Farmer Motion”); and (2) a motion to quash  Defendant Centaurus Financial, Inc’s Deposition Subpoena for Production of  Consumer Records of Plaintiff Farmer Family Trust to Third Party Empire Taxes  Etc. Inc. (Res. No.: 250586874134, the “Empire Taxes Motion”).   On April 3, 2024,  Plaintiffs filed: (1) a motion to quash Defendant Centaurus Financial, Inc’s  Deposition Subpoena for Production of Consumer Records of Plaintiff Holda M.  Novelo to Third Party Fidelity Brokerage Services, LLC (Res. No.: 536014811053,  the “Fidelity-Novelo Motion”); and (2) a motion to quash Defendant Centaurus  Financial, Inc’s Deposition Subpoena for Production of Consumer Records of  Plaintiff Holda M. Novelo to Third Party Wil Ash, CPA (Res. No.: 875532190968,  the “Wil Ash-Novelo Motion”).   The Motions also  request monetary sanctions due to Defendant’s failure to comply with its  discovery obligations.    DISCUSSION Legal Standard Under California Code  of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section 2017.010, generally, any party may  obtain discovery regarding any relevant matter that is not privileged.  Discovery is relevant if it is itself admissible in evidence or if it appears  reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. (CCP §  2017.010.)  Discovery may relate to the claim or defense of the party  seeking discovery or of any other party to the action. (Id.)     If a subpoena  requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents,  electronically stored information, or other things before a court, or at the  trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon  motion made by any person described in CCP section 1987.1, subdivision (b), or  upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to  be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it or  directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall  declare. (CCP § 1987.1, subd. (a).) CCP section 1987.2 allows a court to award  the amount of reasonable attorney’s fees incurred in making the motion under  section 1987 or 1987.1 if the court determines the motion was made or opposed  in bad faith or without substantial justification.  As between parties to  litigation and nonparties, the burden of discovery should be placed on the  latter only if the former do not possess the material sought to be discovered. (Calcor  Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216,  225.) An exception to this may exist where a showing is made the material  obtained from the party is unreliable and may be subject to impeachment by  material in possession of the nonparty. (Id.)    Analysis Fidelity-Farmer Motion              The  Fidelity Brokerage Subpoena as to Farmer seeks the following:  DOCUMENT REQUEST NO.  1: All order forms, subscription agreements, placement memorandums or other  DOCUMENTS through which PLAINTIFF made any investments.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO.  2: All tax-related documents relating to PLAINTIFF for the period of time that  PLAINTIFF held their respective investments.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO.  3: All monthly or other periodic account statements sent to PLAINTIFF regarding  their respective investments.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO.  4: Any and all correspondence between PLAINTIFF or any of their representatives  or employees, and YOU or anyone acting on PLAINTIFF’ behalf.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO.  5: Any and all correspondence, memorandum, electronic notes, physical notes,  brochures, marketing materials, letters, information packets, notices, and  notes of telephone conversations, which evidence, refer, or relate in any  manner to communications (whether oral or written) between YOU, or any of YOUR  representatives or employees, and PLAINTIFF, or anyone acting on her behalf,  relating or pertaining to any and all investment(s) maintained by or on behalf  of the PLAINTIFF.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO.  6: Any and all DOCUMENTS relating to distributions made to PLAINTIFF in  connection with their investments.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO.  7: Any and all DOCUMENTS relating to the current value of PLAINTIFF’  investment(s).   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO.  8: Any and all DOCUMENTS referencing, memorializing, or reflecting any meetings  between PLAINTIFF or any of their’ representatives or employees, and YOU or  anyone acting on PLAINTIFF’ behalf.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO.  9: All new account forms, applications, contracts, profiles, questionnaires  customer agreements, files and contracts of any kind relating to account(s)  maintained by or on behalf of PLAINTIFF, as identified in the Subpoena Duces  Tecum, and all accounts which PLAINTIFF controls or in which PLAINTIFF has an  interest in any capacity.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO.  10: All monthly or other periodic account statements for any and all accounts  held by PLAINTIFF.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO.  11: All client agreements, options approvals, options agreements, margin  agreements, discretionary trading agreements, powers of attorney, and client  profiles pertaining to PLAINTIFF.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO.  12: All statements of claim, litigation complaints and customer complaints by,  or on behalf of, CLAIMANTS, as well as answers, awards, arbitrator decisions  and rulings to such complaints, and settlement agreements resolving any such  complaints, or other documents evidencing how the complaints were resolved.   DOCUMENT  REQUEST NO. 13: Any and all trust documents for PLAINTIFF. Plaintiffs argue  that there are substantial grounds to quash the Fidelity Brokerage Subpoena.  First, Plaintiffs assert that the subpoena issued by Defendant inadequately  describes the documents or categories of documents demanded as it broadly seeks  all documents related to Farmer over a 14-year period without specifically  describing or reasonably particularizing the categories, imposing an undue  burden on the custodian. Second, Plaintiffs claim the subpoena invades Farmer’s  privacy rights by seeking personal financial information, which is  constitutionally protected under the California Constitution. This includes tax  returns and other financial documents that are confidential, and the request is  overly intrusive and seeks irrelevant financial information, resulting in an  unreasonable violation of privacy. Third, Plaintiffs argue that the subpoena  seeks irrelevant information that does not pertain to the litigation such as  requesting documents related to Farmer’s financial advisors at Fidelity  Brokerage, which have no bearing on the advisor-client relationship with Defendant.  Overall, Plaintiffs state that the subpoena imposes an undue burden, expense,  and intrusiveness on the subpoenaed party as the scope of the subpoena is  excessively broad and seeks cumulative or duplicative information that could be  obtained through less burdensome means.    In opposition, Defendant  argues that the documents sought by the subpoena are relevant to the litigation  for several reasons. First, it contends that the documents are pertinent to the  issue of suitability that Farmer has put at issue by alleging that Defendant  failed to determine the suitability of the Spring Gate DST investment. Defendant  disputes this allegation and asserts it acted only as a broker-dealer, with  Robert Horning serving as Farmer’s financial advisor. Therefore, Defendant  asserts it must be allowed to pursue discovery on the suitability of the  investment, as FINRA rules require examining the customer’s financial status,  tax status, objectives, and other reasonable considerations. Second, Defendant  states the documents are relevant to the existence and scope of Defendant’s fiduciary  duty and Farmer’s ability to conduct their own due diligence. Defendant claims  the scope of a broker’s fiduciary duty varies based on the client's  sophistication, and Farmer’s financial background and investment experience are  relevant to determining this scope. The documents sought also pertain to Farmer’s  alleged vulnerability and purported lack of financial sophistication, which Defendant  claims, are relevant to their claims for treble and punitive damages. Additionally,  Defendant asserts that the documents are relevant to the issue of reasonable  reliance in connection with Farmer’s misrepresentation claims. An essential  element of such claims is reasonable reliance, which must be evaluated in light  of Farmer’s intelligence and experience, and here, the subpoena seeks  information about Farmer’s past investments, which is pertinent to assessing  the reasonableness of their reliance on Defendant’s alleged misrepresentations.   Defendant also  contends that Farmer waived their privacy objection by putting their financial  information at issue in the lawsuit. Furthermore, any privacy interests would  be adequately protected by the stipulated protective order already in place.  Defendant argues that financial information is not wholly privileged and that  the court must balance the right to privacy with the need to discover relevant  facts. Defendant maintains that the subpoena describes the categories of  documents with reasonable particularity, as required by the Code of Civil  Procedure. The requests are specific and tailored to obtain information  relevant to the issues in the case. The subpoena is not unreasonably cumulative  or unduly burdensome, especially since Farmer refused to produce the documents  in response to Defendant’s previous requests.    In reply,  Plaintiffs argue that the documents sought by the subpoena are not relevant to  the litigation. They contend that Defendant relies on conclusory comments,  unsupported legal arguments, and inadmissible hearsay statements from attorney  Lucas E. Garcia’s declaration to assert the relevance of the documents.  Plaintiffs highlight that Garcia’s declaration and Defendant’s Opposition lack  substantive support and fail to establish why Fidelity should produce highly  sensitive financial records and tax documents concerning Farmer. Plaintiffs  argue that Defendant’s broad interpretation of FINRA rules would permit  intrusive and unrelated information to be subpoenaed under the guise of  relevance, leading to potential harassment. Plaintiffs maintain that Defendant’s  demand for various financial documents, including account statements and tax  records, without a clear time limit, is unjustified and not reasonably  calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.   Regarding the  issue of privacy, Plaintiffs argue that Farmer did not waive her right to  privacy by filing the lawsuit. They assert that the financial records sought  are not directly put at issue by the allegations in the lawsuit. Additionally,  Plaintiffs reject Defendant’s claim that Farmer’s failure to sign a protective  order draft is to blame for the subpoena’s privacy violations. They argue that Defendant  should have sought only non-objectionable records or those for which Defendant’s  need clearly outweighs Farmer’s privacy rights. Plaintiffs also dismiss Defendant’  sargument that Farmer has no reasonable expectation of privacy over her  financial records held by the bank as absurd. Plaintiffs contend that the  subpoena does not describe the document categories with reasonable  particularity, arguing that Defendant’s claims in this regard are unsupported  by valid evidence. They also argue that Farmer, as the consumer, has standing  to object to the subpoena based on lack of particularity, and Fidelity, as the custodian,  does not need to object for the motion to quash to be valid.   Lastly, Plaintiffs  assert that the subpoena is unreasonably cumulative and unduly burdensome,  noting that Defendant did not follow up on Farmer’s previous valid objections  to similar discovery requests. They assert that if the subpoena requests are  the same or similar to prior document requests that Farmer already objected to,  the subpoena is indeed cumulative and burdensome. Plaintiffs maintain that Defendant’s  repeated attempts to obtain the same records, without reasonable limitation,  justify Farmer’s objections and support the motion to quash.   The Court finds  that the requested documents are relevant to the issues of this case,  specifically in determining Farmer’s financial sophistication, background, and  investment experience for purposes of determining Farmer’s reasonable reliance  on any alleged misrepresentation. Defendant has shown a legitimate need for  this information to evaluate the suitability of the Spring Gate DST investment  and the scope of their fiduciary duty. Additionally, the Court notes that any  privacy concerns can be mitigated by the existing protective order.    Accordingly, the Fidelity-Farmer  Motion is DENIED.       Empire Taxes Motion             As a  preliminary note, the Court notes that Plaintiff’s reply brief in connection  with this motion was improperly labeled with the reservation no. 785664516988,  but the reply brief titled: “REPLY IN SUPPORT OF MOTION TO QUASH DEFENDANT  CENTAURUS FINANCIAL, INC.’S DEPOSITION SUBPOENA FOR PRODUCTION OF CONSUMER  RECORDS OF PLAINTIFF FARMER FAMILY TRUST TO THIRD- PARTY EMPIRE TAXES ETC.  INC.” appears to be in connection with the Empire Taxes Etc. Motion. Given the  numerous motions to quash on file, the Court requests Plaintiff to be more  careful in labeling the motions and including the correct reservation ID on all  papers.                The  Empire Taxes Subpoena seeks the following:  DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 1: All tax  returns or other tax documents relating to PLAINTIFF for the RELEVANT TIME  PERIOD.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 2: All monthly or  other periodic account statements YOU received, during the RELEVANT TIME  PERIOD, for any and all accounts held in the name(s) of PLAINTIFF.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 3: Any and all  DOCUMENTS relating to PLAINTIFF, PLAINTIFF’S financial accounts, or PLAINTIFF’S  tax filings..   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 4: Any and all  COMMUNICATIONS, including emails, and/or COMMUNICATIONS between any  representatives of your firm and PLAINTIFF or anyone acting on PLAINTIFF’S  behalf regarding investments (including securities), securities accounts, REITs,  DSTs, brokerage accounts and tax issues relating to those investments and/or  accounts during the RELEVANT PERIOD.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 5: All DOCUMENTS  evidencing COMMUNICATIONS between or on behalf of PLAINTIFF and your firm  pertaining to the PLAINTIFF’S tax obligations for the RELEVANT PERIOD.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 6: All DOCUMENTS  reflecting PLAINTIFF’S net worth, including financial statements, balance  sheets, spreadsheets, and similar statements of their assets for the RELEVANT  PERIOD.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 7: Any and all  documents pertaining to PLAINTIFF, including but not limited to PLAINTIFF’S  investment in TNP Spring Gate Plaza.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 8: Any and all  estate planning documents regarding PLAINTIFF.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 9: Any and all  DOCUMENTS, including any accountant workpapers, referencing, pertaining to, or  reflecting information pertaining to any investment activity by PLAINTIFF.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 10: All order  forms, subscription agreements, placement memorandums or other DOCUMENTS  through which PLAINTIFF made any investments.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 11: All monthly  or other periodic account statements sent to PLAINTIFF regarding their  investments, including but not limited to TNP Spring Gate Plaza.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 12: Any and all  of PLAINTIFF’S 1031 Exchange documents.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 13: Any and all  of PLAINTIFF’S loan documents.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 14: Any and  documents pertaining to PLAINTIFF’S real estate investments, including 1031  properties.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 15: All  statements of claim, litigation complaints and customer complaints by, or on  behalf of, CLAIMANTS, as well as answers, awards, arbitrator decisions and  rulings to such complaints, and settlement agreements resolving any such complaints,  or other documents evidencing how the complaints were resolved.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 16: Any and all  trust documents for PLAINTIFF.   Plaintiffs make similar arguments as  discussed in the Fidelity-Farmer Motion.   The Court finds that the requested  documents are relevant to the issues of this case, specifically in determining Farmer’s  financial sophistication, background and investment experience for purposes of  determining Farmer’s reasonable reliance on any alleged misrepresentation.    The one exception to this ruling is as  to Request No. 1 which seeks Farmer’s tax returns, and any other Category, such  as Request No. 1, which may include income tax returns. While there is no  recognized federal or state constitutional right to maintain the privacy of tax  returns (see, e.g., Couch v. United States (1973) 409 U.S. 322, 336-337  and Deary v. Superior Court (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1072, 1075, fn.  2, 1077-1078), the California courts have interpreted state taxation statutes  as creating a statutory privilege against disclosing tax returns. (See, e.g., Schnabel  v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 702, 718-721.) The purpose of the privilege  is to encourage voluntary filing of tax returns and truthful reporting of  income, and thus to facilitate tax collection. (Webb v. Standard Oil Co.  (1957) 49 Cal.2d 509, 513.)   Although this statutory tax privilege  is not absolute, none of the exceptions thereto –intentional waiver, the  gravamen of the lawsuit being inconsistent with the privilege, and public  policy (Schnabel, supra at 5 Cal.4th 721) -- applies here. This  Court has broad discretion in determining the applicability of a statutory  privilege (National Football League Properties, Inc. v. Superior Court (1998)  65 Cal.App.4th 100, 106-107) and this Court exercises its discretion to apply  the statutory privilege to the requested documents and therefore does  not order discovery of tax returns in this case.   Accordingly, the Empire Taxes Motion is  GRANTED as to Request No. 1 and DENIED as to all other Categories in the Empire  Taxes Subpoena, subject to the limitations stated above, and subject to the Protective  Order.   Fidelity-Novelo Motion             The Fiedity  Brokerage Subpoena as to Holda seeks the following:  DOCUMENT REQUEST NO.  1: All order forms, subscription agreements, placement memorandums or other  DOCUMENTS through which PLAINTIFF made any investments.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO.  2: All tax-related documents relating to PLAINTIFF for the period of time that  PLAINTIFF held their respective investments.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO.  3: All monthly or other periodic account statements sent to PLAINTIFF regarding  their respective investments.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO.  4: Any and all correspondence between PLAINTIFF or any of their representatives  or employees, and YOU or anyone acting on PLAINTIFF’ behalf.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO.  5: Any and all correspondence, memorandum, electronic notes, physical notes,  brochures, marketing materials, letters, information packets, notices, and  notes of telephone conversations, which evidence, refer, or relate in any  manner to communications (whether oral or written) between YOU, or any of YOUR  representatives or employees, and PLAINTIFF, or anyone acting on her behalf,  relating or pertaining to any and all investment(s) maintained by or on behalf  of the PLAINTIFF.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO.  6: Any and all DOCUMENTS relating to distributions made to PLAINTIFF in  connection with their investments.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO.  7: Any and all DOCUMENTS relating to the current value of PLAINTIFF’  investment(s).   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO.  8: Any and all DOCUMENTS referencing, memorializing, or reflecting any meetings  between PLAINTIFF or any of their’ representatives or employees, and YOU or  anyone acting on PLAINTIFF’ behalf.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO.  9: All new account forms, applications, contracts, profiles, questionnaires  customer agreements, files and contracts of any kind relating to account(s)  maintained by or on behalf of PLAINTIFF, as identified in the Subpoena Duces  Tecum, and all accounts which PLAINTIFF controls or in which PLAINTIFF has an  interest in any capacity.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO.  10: All monthly or other periodic account statements for any and all accounts  held by PLAINTIFF.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO.  11: All client agreements, options approvals, options agreements, margin agreements,  discretionary trading agreements, powers of attorney, and client profiles  pertaining to PLAINTIFF.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO.  12: All statements of claim, litigation complaints and customer complaints by,  or on behalf of, CLAIMANTS, as well as answers, awards, arbitrator decisions  and rulings to such complaints, and settlement agreements resolving any such complaints,  or other documents evidencing how the complaints were resolved.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO.  13: Any and all trust documents for PLAINTIFF.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 14: All DOCUMENTS, including  communications, relating to the Spring Gate Plaza Delaware Statutory Trust (“DST”) investment  owned by PLAINTIFF.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 15: Any and all documents pertaining to  accounts maintained by PLAINTIFF at CENTAURUS.   Plaintiffs argue that there are substantial  grounds exist for quashing the Fidelity Brokerage Subpoena as to Novelo. They  assert largely the same arguments made in the Fidelity-Farmer Motion: that the  subpoena inadequately describes the documents or categories of documents  demanded, invades Novelo’s privacy rights, is overly intrusive and seeks  irrelevant information.    The Court finds that the requested  documents are relevant to the issues of this case, specifically in determining  Novelo’s financial sophistication, background and investment experience for  purposes of determining Novelo’s reasonable reliance on any alleged  misrepresentation. Unlike the Empire Taxes Motion, it does not appear that  there are any requests for Novelo’s tax returns.    Accordingly the  Fidelity-Novelo Motion is DENIED.   Wil Ash-Novelo Motion             The Will  Ash Subpoena seeks the following:  DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 1: All tax  returns or other tax documents relating to PLAINTIFF for the RELEVANT TIME  PERIOD.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 2: All monthly or  other periodic account statements YOU received, during the RELEVANT TIME  PERIOD, for any and all accounts held in the name(s) of PLAINTIFF, including  but not limited to Fidelity; Bank of America; Chase Bank; US Bank and Centaurus  Financial.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 3: Any and all  DOCUMENTS relating to PLAINTIFF, PLAINTIFF’S financial accounts, or PLAINTIFF’S  tax filings.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 4: Any and all  COMMUNICATIONS, including emails, and/or COMMUNICATIONS between any  representatives of your firm and PLAINTIFF or anyone acting on PLAINTIFF’S  behalf regarding investments (including securities), securities accounts, REITs,  DSTs, brokerage accounts and tax issues relating to those investments and/or  accounts during the RELEVANT PERIOD.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 5: All DOCUMENTS  evidencing COMMUNICATIONS between or on behalf of PLAINTIFF and your firm  pertaining to the PLAINTIFF’S tax obligations for the RELEVANT PERIOD.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 6: All DOCUMENTS  reflecting PLAINTIFF’S net worth, including financial statements, balance  sheets, spreadsheets, and similar statements of their assets for the RELEVANT  PERIOD.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 7: Any and all  documents pertaining to PLAINTIFF, including but not limited to PLAINTIFF’S  investment in TNP Spring Gate Plaza.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 8: Any and all  estate planning documents regarding PLAINTIFF.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 9: Any and all  DOCUMENTS, including any accountant workpapers, referencing, pertaining to, or  reflecting information pertaining to any investment activity by PLAINTIFF.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 10: All order  forms, subscription agreements, placement memorandums or other DOCUMENTS  through which PLAINTIFF made any investments.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 11: All monthly  or other periodic account statements sent to PLAINTIFF regarding their  investments, including but not limited to TNP Spring Gate Plaza.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 12: Any and all  of PLAINTIFF’S 1031 Exchange documents.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 13: Any and all  of PLAINTIFF’S loan documents.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 14: Any and  documents pertaining to PLAINTIFF’S real estate investments, including 1031  properties.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 15: All  statements of claim, litigation complaints and customer complaints by, or on behalf  of PLAINTIFF, as well as answers, awards, arbitrator decisions and rulings to  such complaints, and settlement agreements resolving any such complaints, or  other documents evidencing how the complaints were resolved.   DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 16: Any and all  trust documents for PLAINTIFF.     Plaintiffs’ arguments in the Will  Ash-Novelo Motion closely mirror the arguments made in the other motions.   The Court finds that the requested  documents are relevant to the issues of this case, specifically in determining  Novelo’s financial sophistication, background and investment experience for  purposes of determining Novelo’s reasonable reliance on any alleged  misrepresentation.    As discussed in the Empire Taxes  Motion, Request no. 1 seeks Novelo’s tax returns. While there is no recognized  federal or state constitutional right to maintain the privacy of tax returns  (see, e.g., Couch v. United States (1973) 409 U.S. 322, 336-337 and Deary  v. Superiot Court (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1072, 1075, fn. 2,  1077-1078), the California courts have interpreted state taxation statutes as  creating a statutory privilege against disclosing tax returns. (See, e.g., Schnabel  v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 702, 718-721.) The purpose of the  privilege is to encourage voluntary filing of tax returns and truthful  reporting of income, and thus to facilitate tax collection. (Webb v.  Standard Oil Co. (1957) 49 Cal.2d 509, 513.)   Although this statutory tax privilege  is not absolute, none of the exceptions thereto –intentional waiver, the  gravamen of the lawsuit being inconsistent with the privilege, and public  policy (Schnabel, supra at 5 Cal.4th 721) -- applies here. This  Court has broad discretion in determining the applicability of a statutory  privilege (National Football League Properties, Inc. v. Superior Court (1998)  65 Cal.App.4th 100, 106-107) and this Court exercises its discretion to apply  the statutory privilege to the requested documents and therefore does  not order discovery of tax returns in this case.   Accordingly, the Will Ash-Novelo  Motion is GRANTED as to Request No. 1 and DENIED as to all other Categories in  the Will Ash Subpoena subject to the limitations stated above, and subject to  the Protective Order.   Monetary Sanctions             The  Court declines to award monetary sanctions.    Moving party is ordered to give notice  of this ruling.   Parties who intend to submit on this  tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed  by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email  and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off  calendar.        Dated this 30th  day of May 2024                      Hon. Holly J. Fujie Judge of the Superior Court        

 

 

 

 

 

SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
STATE OF CALIFORNIA 

FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT

 

 




OLLYE G. INGRAM, et al., 
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
ANTHONY
  THOMPSON, et al., 
 
                        Defendants.
 


 


      CASE NO.: 21STCV32886
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DISCOVERY MOTION
 
Date:  May 30, 2024
Time:
  8:30 a.m.
Dept.
  56
 




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTIONS

 

MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs

 

RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant Centaurus
Financial, Inc. (“Defendant”)

 

            The
Court has considered the moving, opposition and reply papers.

 

BACKGROUND

This action arises
out of alleged mishandling of Plaintiffs’ investment property.  The currently operative second amended
complaint (the “SAC”) alleges: (1) breach of fiduciary duty; (2) California
financial elder abuse; (3) Illinois financial elder abuse; (4) breach of
contract; (5) breach of implied duty of good faith and fair dealing; (6) aiding
and abetting breach of fiduciary duty; (7) negligence; (8) violation of
Business & Professions Code sections 17200 and 17500; (9) common law fraud;
and (10) negligent misrepresentation.  

            On
February 6, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a renewed motion to compel Defendant’s
compliance with the Court’s November 30, 2023 Order for further responses to
Form Interrogatories (Set One). 

 

DISCUSSION

Legal Standard

Under California Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section 2030.300, on receipt of a response to
interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order compelling a
further response if the propounding party deems that any of the following
apply: (1) an answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete;
(2) an exercise of the option to produce documents under CCP section 2030.230
is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate;
or (3) an objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too general. 
(CCP § 2030.300, subd. (a).)  As to interrogatories: (1) if only a part of
an interrogatory is objectionable, the remainder of the interrogatory shall be
answered; and (2) if an objection is made to an interrogatory or to a part of
an interrogatory, the specific ground for the objection shall be set forth
clearly in the response, and if an objection is based on a claim of privilege
then the particular privilege invoked shall be clearly stated.  (CCP §
2030.240, subds. (a)-(b).)  The burden is on the party responding to
discovery to justify his or her objections to such discovery.  (Coy v.
Superior Court of Contra Costa County (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-21.) 

 

Analysis

Plaintiffs bring
this motion due to Defendant’s second violation of the Court’s orders to
provide verified, complete, and responsive answers to specific Form
Interrogatories (FROGs) served on February 17, 2023. On August 7, 2023, the
Court ordered Defendant to serve complete, substantive, code-compliant, and
verified responses to Plaintiffs’ discovery requests by the close of business
on the same day. Plaintiffs claim they granted Defendant additional time to
comply, but on September 12, 2023, Defendant served unverified responses
containing the same frivolous objections as before. Consequently, Plaintiffs
filed a motion to compel on October 31, 2023. The Court ordered Defendant on
November 30, 2023, to provide further supplemental responses without improper
objections and to pay $1,600 in sanctions. However, Plaintiffs assert that
Defendant’s subsequent responses on December 20, 2023, repeated the same
objections, indicating an intent to hinder Plaintiffs’ discovery efforts. Plaintiffs now seek an order compelling CFI to provide
verified, substantive responses to FROGs 4.1-4.2, 12.1-12.7, 14.1-14.2, 15.1,
and 50.1-50.6. They also request monetary, evidentiary and/or issue sanctions
due to CFI’s persistent refusal to comply with court orders and its obligations

 

Plaintiffs claim they
have no alternative but to bring this motion and seek sanctions due to Defendant’s
ongoing discovery abuses, with less than four months remaining until trial. Plaintiffs
assert that Defendant’s responses are incomplete and non-substantive, and that its
objections lack merit. They emphasize that Defendant has provided evasive and
incomplete answers, particularly to Form Interrogatories 4.1-4.2, 12.1-12.7,
14.1-14.2, 15.1, and 50.1-50.6. For instance, instead of answering
straightforward questions, Defendant has improperly objected to terms defined
by Judicial Council forms, provided vague responses, or engaged in legal
discussions without addressing the interrogatory’s substance. Plaintiffs argue
this conduct shows Defendant is deliberately avoiding truthful answers.

 

Plaintiffs request
monetary sanctions to cover the cost of bringing the motion and further seek
evidentiary sanctions to preclude Defendant from introducing evidence that
should have been disclosed but was not. Additionally, Plaintiffs request issue
sanctions, asking the Court to find that Defendant has waived all affirmative
and special defenses not previously disclosed in response to Form Interrogatory
15.1.

 

In opposition,
Defendant argues that its responses to the discovery requests are complete and
code-compliant. Defendant notes that Plaintiffs conceded their compliance with
Form Interrogatories 12.4 and 12.5, which stated “Subject to the foregoing
objections, Centaurus responds after a reasonably diligent inquiry: No.” Defendant
contends that similar responses were provided for the other interrogatories in
question (Nos. 4.1, 4.2, 12.1-12.3, 12.6-12.7, 14.1-14.2, 50.1-50.6). Defendant
highlights that they have fully responded to each part of the Form
Interrogatories and have added substantial information where necessary, such as
an 11-page answer to Interrogatory 15.1, which details facts supporting their
affirmative defenses and identifies relevant witnesses. It asserts its right to
refer to documents already produced, as allowed under California Code of Civil
Procedure section 2030.230, and emphasize that discovery is ongoing.

 

Regarding
objections to the definition of “incident,” Defendant maintains that the term
is ambiguous and confusing in the context of this complex case involving
multiple parties, transactions and events over several years. It argues that
other courts have supported objections to the standard definition of “incident”
in similarly complex cases. Despite these objections, Defendant claims to have
provided responsive information to the best of their ability. Defendant argues
that it has responded sufficiently to interrogatories where they do not have
responsive information or are not aware of any, following a reasonably diligent
search. It emphasizes that it did not merely rest on objections but provided
responses indicating no awareness of relevant documents or information. For
Form Interrogatories 50.1-50.6, which seek information regarding agreements
alleged in the pleadings, Defendant states that it provided detailed, verified
responses and supplemented previous answers with additional context and facts. 

 

Finally, Defendant
contends that Plaintiffs’ request for sanctions should be denied as they have
acted with substantial justification and imposing sanctions would be unjust,
given its compliance with the Court’s order, the provision of complete
responses, and the production of nearly 5,000 pages of relevant documents. 

 

In reply, Plaintiffs
assert that Defendant violated the Court’s order by refusing to provide
supplemental responses without improper objections. In response to every Form
Interrogatory that uses the term “Incident,” Defendant objects on the grounds
of vagueness and ambiguity, citing the involvement of multiple parties and
transactions. Plaintiff states the Judicial Council Form Interrogatories define
“incident” to include the circumstances and events surrounding the alleged
violations. Plaintiffs assert that this definition is clear and applicable, and
Defendant’s objection has no merit. 

 

Despite being
ordered to produce complete, substantive, Code-compliant, and verified
responses, Plaintiffs argue that Defendant has failed to cure the deficiencies
in its responses and continues to violate Court orders. Defendant attempts to
shift the burden to Plaintiffs to show why certain responses are inadequate, an
argument, they claim, the Court has already rejected. Plaintiffs highlight that
Defendant’s initial supplemental responses were unverified, rendering them
equivalent to no responses at all. They argue that Defendant’s repeated delays
and improper objections have prejudiced them, forcing them to expend additional
resources on multiple motions to compel. Specifically, Plaintiffs contend that
Defendant’s responses, particularly to FROG Nos. 50.1 to 50.6, remain evasive
and incomplete, and merely referencing a Bates range of documents does not
address these deficiencies.

 

Given Defendant’s
ongoing discovery abuses, Plaintiffs seek sanctions for misuse and abuse of the
discovery process, as authorized by CCP §§ 2030.300 and 2023.010. They argue
that Defendant has failed to comply with authorized discovery methods, made unmeritorious
objections, provided evasive responses, and disobeyed Court orders. Plaintiffs
request monetary sanctions to compensate for the resources expended due to
Defendant’s conduct. Additionally, they seek evidentiary sanctions to prohibit
Defendant from introducing any evidence that was not disclosed in written
discovery. Plaintiffs also ask the Court to impose issue sanctions, finding
that Defendant has waived all affirmative and special defenses not previously
disclosed and explained in response to Form Interrogatory 15.1. Plaintiffs
emphasize the need for these sanctions to address Defendant’s recalcitrance,
its flagrant violations of Court orders, and the prejudice its conduct has
caused.

 

The Court finds
that Plaintiffs are entitled to further responses. While Defendant’s
supplemental responses provide more responsive answers, Defendant still
improperly objects to the term “incident,” which appears to have a clear
definition that applies to the circumstances surrounding the alleged
violations. Plaintiffs show that Defendant’s responses, especially to FROGs
4.1-4.2, 12.1-12.7, 14.1-14.2, 15.1, and 50.1-50.6, remain inadequate. 

 

Accordingly, the
Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ motion to compel further responses.

 

Monetary Sanctions

            The Court
grants Plaintiffs’ request for monetary sanctions only. The Court does not find
Defendant’s actions to warrant evidentiary or issue sanctions at this time. The
Court exercises its discretion and grants Plaintiffs monetary sanctions in the
reasonable amount of $1,600, which represents four hours preparing the moving
papers at a rate of $400 per hour.  (Moran
v. Oso Valley Greenbelt Assn. (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 1029, 1034.)  Defendant and counsel are jointly responsible
for paying this amount within 20 days of the date of this order.

 

Moving party is ordered to give notice
of this ruling.

 




 

Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.

 

     Dated this 30th
day of May 2024

 

 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J. Fujie
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 

   