  Case Number:  22VECV00874    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  W Shopping
Service Corporation v. Fallas Borrower II, LLC
 
Demurrer to the complaint 
 
Date of Hearing:        November
30, 2023                          Trial Date:       None Set.
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        22VECV00874
 
Moving Party:            Cross-Defendant
Shopping Service Corporation
Responding Party:     Cross-Complainants Fallas Borrower II, LLC
and RV PMF Borrower, LLC
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Shopping Service Corporation
filed a complaint against Defendant Fallas Borrower II, LLC asserting causes of
action for breach of contract, declaratory relief, and money due. Defendant
owns certain real property, which Plaintiff operates. Plaintiff alleges
Defendant has refused to comply with certain contractual obligations and has
not paid assessments, levies, charges, and/or fee charges as they became due. 
 
Default was entered against Defendant
on August 26, 2022. However, the court denied Plaintiff’s request for entry of
default judgment and on March 24, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint, adding Defendants RV PMF Borrower, LLC, Joseph Michael Fallas,
California TD Specialists, and Private Mortgage Fund, LLC. Plaintiff also added
a cause of action for fraudulent conveyance. On June 21, 2023, Plaintiff
dismissed Defendant Private Mortgage Fund, LLC and dismissed Defendant
California TD Specialists on June 26, 2023. 
 
On June 23, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
Second Amended Complaint for 1. breach of contract and governing documents; 2.
violation of the commercial and industrial common interest development act (equitable
servitude); 3. declaratory relief; 4. injunctive relief; 5. money due; and 6.
fraudulent conveyance. 
 
On July 31, 2023, Defendants Fallas
Borrower II, LLC, RV PMF Borrower, LLC, and Joseph Michael Fallas filed a
cross-complaint for negligence, breach of contract, and breach of covenant of
good faith and fair dealing. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Cross-Defendant Shopping Service
Corporation’s Demurrer to the Third Cause of Action is OVERRULED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Cross-Defendant
Shopping Service Corporation demurs to
Cross-Complainants Fallas Borrower II, LLC and RV PMF Borrower, LLC’s
Cross-Complaint on the grounds that the third cause of action for breach of
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing fails to state a cause of
action as to Cross-Defendant Shopping Service Corporation. Shopping Service argues
Fallas’ cause of action for breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing is improperly pleaded because it is simply a re-allegation of its
breach of contract cause of action.
 
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer, “the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of
determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections
to be raised in the demurrer.” (CCP § 430.41(a).)
 
Cross-Complainant contends
Cross-Defendants failed to attempt to meet and confer or engage in a meet and
confer process following Fallas’ counsel’s email. While the meet and confer efforts
may have been inadequate, an insufficient meet and confer process is not
grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer. (See CCP § 430.41(a)(4).)  
 
Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and
Fair Dealing
 
The covenant of good faith and fair
dealing is implied by law in every contract, and it acts “as a supplement to
the express contractual covenants, to prevent a contracting party from engaging
in conduct which (while not technically transgressing the express covenants)
frustrates the other party’s rights to the benefits of the contract.” (Racine
& Laramie, Ltd. v. Department of Parks & Recreation (1992) 11
Cal.App.4th 1026, 1031-1032.) When the allegations for breach of the
implied covenant “do not go beyond the statement of a mere contract breach,”
then the demurrer to the implied covenant claim may be sustained on the grounds
that it is duplicative of, and entirely contained within, the corresponding
breach of contract claim. (Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific Business
Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 139.)
 
Cross-Defendant
argues Fallas’ claim for breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing is no different than their second cause of action for breach of
contract. Cross-Defendant contends that Fallas simply alleges that Shopping
Service breached the Declaration of Restriction and Convenance of Right to Use
and fails to allege that SSC, or its representatives, engaged in any conduct
that hindered Fallas’s obligations under the Declaration of Restriction and
Convenance of Right to Use or any
other contractual agreement. Rather, Fallas merely incorporates allegations
language from the first cause of action for negligence and second cause of
action for breach of contract. 
 
In
opposition, Cross-Complainant argues they have alleged more than just a mere
breach of contract. Cross-Complainant contends not only did SSC fail to
maintain these common areas, the breach of contract, SSC failed to hire
adequate security to ensure safety of these common areas for the members of the
common area development, the breach of the covenant of good faith and fair
dealing. 
 
The court
finds Cross-Complainant’s allegations sufficient and go beyond the statement of
a mere contract breach. The cross-complaint alleges Cross-Defendant’s failure
to provide the services it promised and charged for represents a material
breach of the terms of the agreement. (Cross-Complaint ¶21.) This included
failure to provide security. (Cross-Complaint ¶22.) Cross-Complainants go on to
allege Cross-Defendant interfered with Cross-Complainant’s rights to receive
benefits under the agreement when intentionally and unlawfully failing to
provide adequate security despite repeated incidents at the Parcel. (Cross-Complaint
¶29.) However, this went above the breach as Cross-Complainants allege “[t]he
failure to provide proper security was a substantial factor in causing Cross-Complainants’
significant injury as it allowed for all copper wiring being stolen from the
Parcel, sprinkler heads being broken off resulting in extensive flooding; and
most recently, an explosion and fire immediately against the property as a
result of meth being cooked at the homeless encampment against the Parcel on
the sidewalk.” (Cross-Complaint ¶30.) These allegations go above and beyond the
breach of failing to provide security pursuant to the agreement and separately
causes its own damages. (See DuBarry Internat., Inc. v. Southwest Forest
Industries, Inc. (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 552, 563.)  
 
Cross-Complainant
also argues the moving papers fail to actually contain a demurrer; rather, the
papers only contain a Notice of Hearing, Memorandum of Points and Authorities,
and Proof of Service. The court disagrees. Cross-Defendant has complied with the
California Code of Civil Procedure and the California Rules of Court when
demurring to the cause of action. 
 
Accordingly, Cross-Defendant’s demurrer to the third cause of action is
OVERRULED