 Case Number:  23PSCV01613    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Kiarash  Noorizadeh v. Dr. Maxwell Nazari  Plaintiff Kiarash Noorizadeh’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request  for Production of Documents, Set Two, Request Number 3, and for Sanctions TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to  Defendant’s supplemental response to Request for Production of Documents, Set  Two, Request Number 3. Defendant must provide a verified further response,  including any responsive documents, or indicate that no such documents exist  and the reason as set forth in the Code, within 20 days of the Court’s order.  The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions.  Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s rulings within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This  is a medical malpractice case. On May 26, 2023, plaintiff Kiarash Noorizadeh  (Plaintiff) filed this action against  Dr. Maxwell Nazari, D.D.S. (erroneously sued as Dr. Maxwell Nazari) (Defendant),  alleging causes of action for medical malpractice and personal injury.  On June 6, 2024, Plaintiff moved to compel further responses to  Request for Production of Documents No. 2 and for sanctions. On July 5, 2024,  Defendant opposed the motion. On July 9, 2024, Plaintiff replied.  LEGAL  STANDARD – Motion to Compel Further Responses              Code of Civil Procedure section  2031.310, subdivision (a), provides that on receipt of a response to a request  for production of documents, the demanding party may move for an order  compelling further responses if: (1) A statement of compliance with the demand  is incomplete. (2) A representation of inability to comply is  inadequate, incomplete, or evasive. (3) An objection in the response is without  merit or too general.  “Unless notice of this motion is given within 45 days  of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response,  or on or before any specific later date to which the demanding party and the  responding party have agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any right  to compel a further response to the demand.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,  subd. (c).)  Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, subdivision (h), further  provides that “the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7  (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who  unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response to a  demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with  substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of  the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (h).)  DISCUSSION –  Motion to Compel Further Responses  Meet and Confer              A motion to compel further responses  requires a meet-and-confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd.  (b)(2).) Plaintiff’s moving papers and reply papers do not contain a declaration  indicating any efforts to meet and confer before bringing this motion to compel  further responses. But, Plaintiff’s reply papers indicate having attempted to  meet and confer with Defendant before bringing this motion. (Reply, p. 5:7-11.)  The Court exercises its discretion to accept this as proof of having attempted  to meet and confer, but admonishes Plaintiff to comply with the requirements of  the Code of Civil Procedure going forward.  Analysis – Timeliness  A motion to compel further responses must be made within 45 days  after service of the verified response (including supplemental responses) or no  later than the date the parties have specifically agreed to in writing. (Code  Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (c).) The failure to timely move to compel  further responses is jurisdictional. (Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58  Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.)  Defendant contends Plaintiff’s motion is untimely and therefore  must be denied. Defendant refers to the discussion at the Informal Discovery  Conference held on May 14, 2024, in which this issue was discussed at length.  (Opp., 2:13-6:13.) However, the May 14, 2024 minute order indicates that the  parties stipulated to having Defendant provide Plaintiff a supplemental  response, which Defendant did provide on May 31, 2024. (Motion, Ex. A, pp. 11,  25.) This triggered a new deadline for Plaintiff to move to compel further  responses. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (c).) Plaintiff filed the  instant motion to compel further responses to that supplemental response on  June 6, 2024, which is less than 45 days after May 31, 2024.  Accordingly, the Court finds this motion is timely and the Court is  not jurisdictionally prohibited from considering the motion. (See Sexton v.  Superior Court, supra, 58 Cal.App.4th at p. 1410.)  Analysis – Separate Statement  A motion to compel further responses requires a separate  statement. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345, subd. (a)(3).)  Defendant argues in opposition that the Court should deny  Plaintiff’s motion for failure to include a separate statement. Plaintiff’s  reply papers did not respond to this point.  The Court agrees with Defendant. Plaintiff did not provide a  separate statement with the moving papers. However, the Court exercises its  discretion to still consider the motion. There is only one discovery request at  issue here, so it is not unduly difficult for the Court to review the request  and make a determination. Nevertheless, the Court admonishes Plaintiff to  comply with the California Rules of Court going forward.  Analysis  Plaintiff seeks to compel a further response to the supplemental  response received from Defendant on May 31, 2024. Plaintiff contends that Defendant  failed to provide the consent forms Defendant agreed to produce, namely for  teeth numbers 28, 29, 30, and 31. Plaintiff contends the May 14, 2024 order  from the Court was clear regarding which documents to produce, and that  Defendant violated the order through misrepresentation by indicating that such  documents existed but then not producing them.  In opposition, Defendant contends whether the documents are what  Defendant claims they are is a credibility issue, not a discovery issue.  Defendant also contends the motion should be denied because Plaintiff did not  submit a proposed order, the request, i.e., Request for Production Number 3,  violates Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.030, subdivision (c)(1), and  there was no separate notice of motion per Code of Civil Procedure section  1010.  The Court  finds Plaintiff’s motion to be well taken. None of the documents produced appear  to evidence consent forms for teeth numbers 28, 29, 30, and 31. (Motion, Ex. A,  pp. 18-23.) The Court also finds Defendant’s contention that this is a  credibility issue to be unavailing. A simple review of the consent forms  produced do not show they are for teeth numbers 28, 29, 30, or 31. (See Id.) In fact, Defendant’s opposition never directly disputes Plaintiff’s  contention that the consent forms produced do not cover teeth numbers 28, 29,  30, or 31, which the Court construes as a tacit admission that Plaintiff’s  arguments are meritorious. (See generally, Opp.; Sexton v. Superior Court,  supra, 58 Cal.App.4th at p. 1410; C. Opposing the Motion—and  Rebutting the Opposition, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C,  ¶ 9:105.10.)  Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion.  Monetary Sanctions  The Court declines to award Plaintiff monetary sanctions since those  are limited to attorney’s fees and costs incurred in connection with such a  motion, and Plaintiff is self-represented. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,  subd. (h); Trope v. Katz  (1995) 11 Cal.4th 274, 280 [attorney  who represented himself was not entitled to recover attorney fees].)  Defendant also correctly contends that Plaintiff did not identify any  issues for the Court to award issue sanctions, nor did Plaintiff provide a  separate statement for such sanctions, which are required by Rule 3.1345,  subdivision (a)(7) of the California Rules of Court. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule  3.1345, subd. (a)(7).)              The Court also declines to award  Defendant’s counter request for monetary sanctions, since Defendant is not the  prevailing party on this motion.  CONCLUSION The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to Defendant’s supplemental response to Request for Production of Documents, Set Two, Request Number 3. Defendant must provide a verified further response, including any responsive documents, or indicate that no such documents exist and the reason as set forth in the Code, within 20 days of the Court’s order. The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions. Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of the Court’s rulings within five calendar days of this order. 