 Case Number:  24PSCV00115    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Otto
Beasley v. Guy Shih, et al. 
Plaintiff’s
Motion to Quash and/or Modify Defendants’ Deposition Subpoenas of Plaintiff’s
Medical Records and Request for Monetary Sanctions 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to quash and/or modify
Defendants’ deposition subpoenas of Plaintiff’s medical records, and hereby QUASHES
all 29 deposition subpoenas, without prejudice to Defendants issuing more
narrowly framed, more precisely tailored subpoenas which do not improperly
impinge on protected information. The Court further GRANTS Plaintiff’s request
for monetary sanctions in the reduced amount of $2,760.00. 
            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is an auto accident case. On January 10, 2024, plaintiff Otto
Beasley (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Guy Shih, Jocelyn
Shih, Shawn Tang (collectively, Defendants) and Does 1 to 50, alleging causes
of action for motor vehicle and general negligence. 
On June 12, 2024, Plaintiff moved to quash and/or modify
Defendants’ 29 deposition subpoenas for Plaintiff’s medical records. The motion
is unopposed. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or
the production of books, documents, electronically
stored information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of
an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion
reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court's
own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make
an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance
with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including
protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be
appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands,
including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.

(Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1,
subd. (a).) 
PRELIMINARY
ISSUES 
            Rule
3.1345, subdivision (a)(5), of the California Rules of Court requires a
separate statement to be submitted with a motion to quash a subpoena for
production of documents at a deposition. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345,
subd. (a)(5).) Plaintiff did not provide a separate statement with this motion,
which renders the motion defective. (See Mills v. U.S. Bank (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 871, 892.) Nevertheless,
the Court exercises its discretion to still consider Plaintiff’s motion, but
admonishes Plaintiff to comply with the requirements of the California Rules of
Court going forward. (See Id., at p. 893.) 
DISCUSSION 
Meet and Confer 
Although the moving party is not required to meet and confer
before bringing a motion to quash a deposition subpoena, (see Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 1987.1), the Court appreciates Plaintiff’s efforts to do so (Lu Decl., ¶¶
4-7). 
Analysis 
Plaintiff seeks to quash or modify the 29 deposition subpoenas defendants
served on various hospitals and health care providers. (See Lu Decl., Ex. 1.) Plaintiff
contends the subpoenas improperly seek disclosure of medical records unrelated
to this action, such as records that predate the accident, and otherwise violate
Plaintiff’s privacy rights. Plaintiff contends the records requested are
irrelevant to this action, improperly burden Plaintiff, are harassing, and are
not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
Plaintiff contends these subpoenas are overbroad and seek Plaintiff’s entire
medical history, including before the accident, and are therefore not narrowly
tailored to the relevant issues. Plaintiff indicates having agreed to produce
medical and billing records related to Plaintiff’s spine treatment and left
shoulder dating back ten years from the date of the accident, and that such
production should be enough for Defendants, but received no response.
Alternatively, Plaintiff seeks to modify the subpoenas to be limited medical
records involving those parts that were injured in the accident and go back
only ten years. 
The Court finds Plaintiff’s motion to be well taken. The language
in the subpoenas reads as follows: 
Complete records, including but not limited
to, intake forms, forms filled out by the patient, emails to and from the patient,
emails to and from the patient’s attorney, correspondence between your office
and the patient’s attorney, correspondence between your office and the patient,
correspondence and emails between your office and any “Payor” (payor means any
person or organization which pays, in whole or part, for the services rendered
to the patient), emails concerning the patient, log entries, post-it notes,
memos, internal notations, attorney liens and letters of credit, payment information,
records concerning or relating to scheduling, records from other health care
providers, correspondence, medical records, nursing records, physician
assistant records, charts, chart notes, treatment records, lab reports,
cardiology reports, radiology reports, MRI reports, x-ray and CAT scan reports,
fluoroscopy images, physical therapy records, case history, emergency records,
diagnosis, prognosis, admit and discharge records, disability slips,
prescriptions, phone call notes and logs, photographs, sign-in and sign-out
sheets, documents which document if records have been checked out or provided
to the patient or others, all billing records showing all charges, payments,
write-offs, emails and correspondence related to billings or collections,
emails and correspondence related to when payment will be made, all documents concerning
any payments, all contracts between your office and anyone who has purchased
your accounts receivable concerning the patient referenced in this subpoena,
documents establishing your right to payment, plus true and complete copies of
all medical imaging, x-rays, fluoroscopy and MRJ scans, including metadata.
This subpoena applies all records from the date of the first visit to the
present, and includes electronic records and physical paper records, including
those located in storage. **Prior to duplication of medical imaging, please
provide a breakdown of all medical imaging in your possession, custody, or
control. Medical imaging which can be produced electronically, like modern
x-rays, CT scans, and MRI scans must be produced in electronic format on a DVD
or flash drive. 
(Lu Decl., Ex. 1.) 
            The
Court finds this language is not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery
of admissible evidence, and is effectively a “shotgun” discovery request, which
is improper. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010; W. Pico Furniture Co. of Los Angeles v. Superior Ct. In & For
Los Angeles Cnty. (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 419.) This
language contains no time limitation, and seeks irrelevant information
predating the subject accident. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.) Moreover, the fact
Defendants served this same subpoena on 29 different hospitals and medical
service providers further underscores that this is not reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, and also appears intended to
harass Plaintiff. (See Id.; Flora Crane Serv., Inc. v.
Superior Ct. In & For City & Cnty. of San Francisco (1965) 234 Cal.App.2d 767, 779.) 
Furthermore, the documents requested clearly
implicate Plaintiff’s privacy rights, as they involve medical information. (Davis v. Superior Ct. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th
1008, 1019 [“It has been held that a person's medical profile is an area of
privacy which cannot be compromised except upon good cause. [Citation.] We may also safely conclude that the right of privacy
extends to the details of one's personal life. [Citation.]”; see also Hallendorf
v. Superior Court (1978) 85 Cal.App.3d 553, 556-557 [mere filing of a
personal injury lawsuit does not open up “all of a plaintiff’s past medical
history to scrutiny. [Citation.]”)

Finally, the
Court further notes that Defendants did not oppose this motion, which
undermines their subpoenas because they have not demonstrated good cause for
seeking Plaintiff’s past medical records. (See Davis v. Superior Ct., supra, 7
Cal.App.4th at p. 1019.) The Court also construes it as a tacit
admission that Plaintiff’s arguments are meritorious. (Sexton v. Superior
Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410; C. Opposing the Motion—and
Rebutting the Opposition, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C,
¶ 9:105.10.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion and hereby
quashes all 29 deposition subpoenas. 
With respect to monetary sanctions, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s
request in the reduced amount of $2,760, comprised of 4.5 hours preparing the
motion and appearing at the hearing on the motion, multiplied by the hourly
rate of $600.00, plus the $60.00 filing fee. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to quash and/or modify
Defendants’ deposition subpoenas of Plaintiff’s medical records, and hereby
QUASHES all 29 deposition subpoenas, without prejudice to Defendants issuing more
narrowly framed, more precisely tailored subpoenas which do not improperly
impinge on protected information. The Court further GRANTS Plaintiff’s request
for monetary sanctions in the reduced amount of $2,760.00. 
            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.