 Case Number:  23PSCV00745    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Wilhelmina Quismundo  v. Son The Van  Plaintiff’s  Motion to Compel Discovery Responses to Form Interrogatories, Special  Interrogatories, and Request for Production  TENTATIVE RULING  The  Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to compel discovery responses to Form  Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Request for Production without  prejudice.              Defendant is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This  is an auto accident case. On March 14, 2023, plaintiff Wilhelmina Quismundo (Plaintiff)  filed this action against defendant Son B Van (erroneously sued as Son The Van)  (Defendant) and Does 1 through 26, alleging one cause of action for negligence.  On  June 18, 2024, Plaintiff moved to compel responses to written discovery. The  motion is unopposed.  LEGAL  STANDARD  When a party fails to serve a timely response to interrogatories, the  party propounding the interrogatories may move for an order compelling a  response. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) A party who fails to  provide a timely response waives any objection, including one based on  privilege or work product. (Id., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) “The court  shall impose a monetary sanction… against any party, person, or attorney who  unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to  interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted  with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition  of the sanction unjust.” (Id., § 2030.290, subd. (c).)   When a party fails to serve a timely response to an inspection demand,  the party making the demand may move for an order compelling a response to the  inspection demand. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (b).) A party who fails  to provide a timely response waives any objection, including one based on  privilege or work product. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a).) “[T]he  court shall impose a monetary sanction… against any party, person, or attorney  who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand  for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the one  subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other  circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Id., §  2031.300, subd. (c).)  DISCUSSION  Meet  and Confer  Although  meeting and conferring is not required before bringing motions to compel, (Sinaiko  Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148  Cal.App.4th 390, 404), the Court appreciates Plaintiff’s meet-and-confer  efforts. (Nahorai Decl., ¶¶ 4-13.)              Analysis  Plaintiff  indicates having served Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories,  Set One, and Request for Production, Set One, on Defendant on November 15, 2023.  (Nahorai Decl., ¶ 3.) Despite having been granted multiple extensions,  Defendant failed to respond. (Nahorai Decl., ¶¶ 4-13.) Defendant has not  responded as of the filing of the motion. (Nahorai Decl., ¶ 13.) The Court  finds Plaintiff has shown it is entitled to responses from Defendant.  However,  the Court notes that Plaintiff’s motion contains no proof of service, nor is  any proof of service on file with the Court evidencing that Plaintiff served  this motion on Defendant. Such proof of service should have been filed by July  11, 2024, per Rule 3.1300, subdivision (c), of the California Rules of Court.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1300, subd. (c) [“Proof of service of the moving  papers must be filed no later than five court days before the time appointed  for the hearing.”]) Accordingly, it is unclear to the Court if Defendant was  ever properly served with this motion. The  Court also notes that Plaintiff combined all three sets of discovery requests  into one motion. Each set of discovery requests requires its own motion and a  separate filing fee. There is nothing here indicating that Plaintiff paid three  separate motion filing fees. Based  on the foregoing, the Court DENIES the motion without prejudice.             The Court also denies Plaintiff’s  request for monetary sanctions.  CONCLUSION  The  Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to compel discovery responses to Form  Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Request for Production without  prejudice.              Defendant is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.