  Case Number:  23PSCV00282    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Holly  Robin Garcia v. Unlimited Rubber Supplies, LLC, et al.  State Farm  Mutual Automobile Insurance Company’s Motion for Leave to Intervene  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court GRANTS State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company’s  motion for leave to intervene. State Farm shall file an answer in intervention  within five days of the Court’s ruling on this motion. Otherwise, the motion  will be DENIED without prejudice.               State Farm is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a motor vehicle accident case. On January 30, 2023, plaintiff  Holly Robin Garcia (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Unlimited  Rubber Supplies, LLC, Michael Antonio Diaz (Diaz), Malcolm Defrantz, and Does 1  to 50, alleging causes of action for general negligence and motor vehicle.  On June 20, 2024, State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company  moved for leave to intervene. The motion is unopposed.  LEGAL  STANDARD             “An  intervention takes place when a nonparty, deemed an intervenor, becomes a party  to an action or proceeding between other persons by doing any of the  following:… (2) Uniting with a defendant in resisting the claims of a  plaintiff.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (b)(2).) To intervene in an action,  “[a] nonparty shall petition the court for leave to intervene by noticed motion  or ex parte application.” (Id., § 387, subd. (c).) A nonparty must be permitted to intervene if either of the  following conditions are satisfied: (1) a provision of law confers an  unconditional right to intervene; or (2) the person seeking intervention claims  an interest related to the property or transaction that is the subject of the  action and that person is so situated that the disposition of the action may  impair or impede that person’s ability to protect that interest, unless that  person’s interest is adequately represented by one or more of the existing  parties. (Code Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (d)(1)(A)-(B).) A court has  discretionary authority to allow a nonparty to intervene “if the person shas an  interest in the matter in litigation, or in the success of either of the  parties, or an interest against both.” (Id., § 387, subd. (d)(2).) DISCUSSION  Analysis  State  Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company (State Farm) seeks leave to intervene  in this action on behalf of Defendant Diaz, its insured who has not appeared or  otherwise participated in this action. State Farm contends it is entitled to  intervene as Diaz’s insurer to protect its interests and Diaz’s interests. State  Farm contends it has a property interest in this litigation because it is  obligated to pay any judgments obtained against its insureds under Insurance  Code section 11580, subdivision (b)(2), and it has the right to intervene when  its insureds cannot defend themselves.  State  Farm contends it is also entitled to permissive intervention because Diaz is  now in pro per and cannot or will not assist in his defense, and Diaz’s failure  to comply with prior discovery matters may lead to his answer being stricken or  a default being entered. State Farm contends it also has an immediate interest  to stand in the shoes of Diaz in defending the present action and the policy  State Farm issued. State Farm contends the proposed answer in intervention will  assert the same general denial and affirmative defenses as to Diaz and that  intervention will not enlarge the issues in this case in any substantive  manner. State Farm also contends intervention will not create prejudice to any  other party.  The Court finds State Farm is entitled  to intervention. “An insurer's right to intervene in an action against the  insured, for personal injury or property damage, arises as a result of  Insurance Code section 11580.” (Reliance Ins. Co. v. Superior  Ct. (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 383, 386.) An insurer “has a direct and  immediate interest in the litigation, because it may be required to satisfy any  default judgment entered against” its insured. (Id., at p. 387.) State  Farm, as Diaz’s insurer, is therefore entitled to intervene on Diaz’s behalf  since State Farm will be liable for any judgments that may be entered against  Diaz. There is also no indication that State Farm’s intervention would enlarge  the issues in this case since State Farm is merely seeking to stand in the  shoes of Defendant Diaz who is already a party to this action and therefore  potentially liable. The Court further notes that the motion is unopposed, which  the Court construes as a tacit admission that the motion is meritorious. (Sexton  v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410; C. Opposing the  Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial  Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶ 9:105.10.)  The Court does note, however, that it  is not entirely clear what is the proposed answer for Defendant Diaz, which was  supposed to be filed with the moving papers per Code of Civil Procedure section  387, subdivision (c). (Code Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (c).) State Farm provided  multiple answers to the complaint with its moving papers, and none of them  indicate that they are the proposed answer in intervention for Diaz.  (See Cullins Decl., ¶¶ 3-5, Exs. B-D.) Notwithstanding, the Court will grant  the unopposed motion and require State Farm to file its answer in intervention forthwith.  CONCLUSION  The Court GRANTS State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company’s  motion for leave to intervene. State Farm shall file an answer in intervention  within five days of the Court’s ruling on this motion.               State Farm is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.