  Case Number:  23AVCV00370    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a wrongful death action. Plaintiffs
Susan Ekdahl, individually, and as Administrator of the Estate of Edward A.
Ekdahl (“Susan”[1]);
and Edward A. Ekdahl, by and through his Successor in Interest, Susan Ekdahl
(“Decedent” and collectively “Plaintiffs”), allege that on (1) January 02,
2022, Decedent was transported to Defendant 
Lancaster Hospital Corporation dba Palmdale Regional Medical Center,
erroneously sued as Palmdale Regional Medical Center (“PRMC”)’s Emergency
Department by ambulance for chest main and shortness of breath; (2) Decedent
was admitted shortly after midnight on January 03, 2022, with Defendant Sonia
P. Sethi, M.D. (“Dr. Sethi”) as his attending physician; (3) while in the
patient room Decedent was connected to an intravenous line, heated high-flow
oxygen, and some vital sign monitoring cables; (4) at around 6:00 pm on January
03, 2022, as a result of failure to provide medial and non-medical services,
including supervision, Decedent was able to remove various lines and cables
from his body and proceeded to the bathroom unattended without supervision; (5)
there was no alerting device in place or protocol to alert Dr. Sethi and
attending medical staff in real-time that a patient was exiting the bed alone
without supervision; (6) Decedent collapsed and went into cardiac arrest while
in the bathroom; (7) when medical staff discovered Decedent, they were unable
to retrieve him because the bathroom door was locked; (8) Decedent was
unresponsive when medical staff reached him; (9) Decedent was transferred to PRMC’s
Intensive Care Unit (“ICU”); and (10) Decedent never came back to consciousness
and passed away on January 13, 2022, as a result of Defendants’ acts and omissions.
 
On April 05, 2023, Plaintiffs
filed their Complaint alleging three causes of action against PRMC. 
 
On June 14, 2023, PRMC filed a
Demurrer with Motion to Strike. 
 
On July 21, 2023, before the
Demurrer with Motion to Strike was heard, Plaintiffs filed their First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”). The FAC added Dr. Sethi as a defendant and alleged three
causes of action for: (1) Wrongful Death against all defendants; (2) Survivor
Cause of Action – Medical Negligence against all defendants; and (3) Survivor
Cause of Action – Negligence: Premises Liability against PRMC.
 
On August 23, 2023, PRMC filed
this Demurrer, subsequently overruled. 
 
On October 19, 2023, Plaintiffs
filed two Amendments to the Complaint changing the fictious name of Doe 1 to Envision
Healthcare Corporation and Doe 2 to Envision Physician Services, LLC. 
 
On December 04, 2023, dismissed
Envision Healthcare Corporation and Envision Physician Services, LLC. 
 
On February 06, 2024, Dr. Sethi’s
Ex Parte Application to Continue Trial was granted. 
 
On February 27, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed this Motion for Leave to File Second Amended Complaint.
 
On March 19, 2024, PRMC filed its
Opposition. 
 
On March 25, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed their Reply. 
 
On April 02, 2024, the Court held
a hearing on the matter. The Court took the matter under submission before
issuing a continuance as it was presented that (1) Plaintiffs seek to add an
additional cause of action due to discovery responses; (2) a meet and confer
attempt to address the proposed pleadings may alleviate the need for the
motion; and (3) the motion and ruling should address the amended proposed pleading.
The Court provided the following briefing schedule:
 
Supplemental
Opening Papers: April 15, 2024
Supplemental
Opposing Papers: April 24, 2024
Supplemental
Reply Papers: April 30, 2024
 
(04/05/2024 Minute Order.)
 
On April 15, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed the Supplemental Opening Papers. 
 
On April 24, 2024, PRMC filed its
Supplemental Opposing Papers. 
 
On April 30, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed the Supplemental Reply Papers. 
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Standard for Leave to Amend – “A party may amend its pleading once
without leave of the court at any time before the answer, demurrer, or motion
to strike is filed, or after a demurrer or motion to strike is filed but before
the demurrer or motion to strike is heard if the amended pleading is filed and
served no later than the date for filing an opposition to the demurrer or
motion to strike. A party may amend the pleading after the date for filing an
opposition to the demurrer or motion to strike, upon stipulation by the parties.
The time for responding to an amended pleading shall be computed from the date
of service of the amended pleading.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 472(a).)¿ 
 
Trial courts may, in furtherance of justice
and on any proper terms, allow a party to amend any pleading. (Cal. Code Civ.
Proc., §473(a)(1); Branick v. Downey Savings & Loan Association
(2006) 39 Cal.4th 235, 242.) Trial courts may also, in their discretion and
after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an
amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like
terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code. (Cal.
Code Civ. Proc., §473(a); Branick, supra, 39 Cal.4th at 242.) Leave to
amend is generally liberally granted, provided there is no statute of
limitations concern. (Kolani v. Gluska (1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 402, 411.)
Additionally, “judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the
same lawsuit.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.
App. 3d 1045, 1047.) Trial courts may deny the plaintiff’s leave to amend if
there is prejudice to the opposing party, such as delay in trial, loss of
critical evidence, or added costs of preparation. (Branic, supra, at
242.)¿ 
 
Under California Rules of Court Rule 3.1324,
a motion to amend a pleading before trial must (1) include a copy of the
proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to
differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what
allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located;
and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous
pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324(a).) A
separate supporting declaration specifying (1) the effect of the amendment; (2)
why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to
the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reason why the request for
amendment was not made earlier must accompany the motion. (Id., Rule
3.1324(b).)¿ 
¿
-----
 
Discussion
 
Application – The
Court provides a summary of the previous documents and hearings. 
In the original moving papers, Plaintiffs
sought leave to amend to add three causes of action to the pleadings: (1)
Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (2) Fraudulent Concealment; and (3)
Misrepresentation, as well as to expand the allegations in its operative First
Amended Complaint (“Complaint”) based on information recently obtained in
discovery in this action. These changes include a request for punitive damages
in the proposed Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”). Plaintiffs presented that the
changes stem from responses received during discovery and the motion was
brought in good faith. PRMC argued that
(1) as to the proposed Breach of Fiduciary Care claim, it is written as on
behalf of the Estate of Decedent and alleges only damages to Susan; (2) as to
the proposed claim for Fraudulent Concealment, the proposed claim fails to
allege that PRMC failed to disclose any of the allegations to Decedent, that
PRMC intended to defraud Decedent, and that Decedent would not acted as he did
if he had known of the above listed alleged concealed or suppressed facts and
that proposed pleading once again mentions Susan though it is only on behalf of
Decedent’s Estate; and (3) as to the claim for Misrepresentation, the proposed
SAC does not allege specific facts (i.e., ow, when, where, to whom, and by what
means the representations were tendered) and that the cause of action is
alleged by Susan and does not apply to “Plaintiffs” in the plural. PRMC further
argued that none of the claims can be rectified by amendment and Plaintiffs failed
to state facts sufficient to constitute any of the proposed additional causes
of action. Plaintiffs argued that PRMC provided no valid arguments as the
arguments are more suited for a demurrer than leave to amend the complaint. The
Court provided the following analysis:
 
As to PRMC’s first
argument, the Court notes that Susan is in the action individually, as the
Administrator of Decedent’s Estate, and as Decedent’s Successor in Interest. It
is unclear, based on the substance of the pleading, whether the claim is meant
to be on behalf of Susan. The Court notes that this is not the first time this
has occurred as the FAC alleges a survivor action written as brought by Susan
alone but alleging a survivor cause of action. (See FAC at First Cause of
Action Header and ¶ 30; see also Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 377.30.) “The law
respects form less than substance.” (See Cal. Civ. Code § 3528.) Thus, it
appears in either case that the claim of Fraudulent Concealment may be
rectified. The Court inquires. 
 
As to PRMC’s second
argument, “the elements of an action for fraud and deceit based on a concealment
are:(1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2)
the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the
plaintiff, (3)the defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed the
fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been
unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of the
concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or
suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.” (Boschma
v. Home Loan Center, Inc. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 230, 248.) The proposed
SAC lists various facts that were allegedly not disclosed. The proposed facts
do switch between the plural use of “Plaintiffs,” actions directed at Susan, as
well as actions directed at Decedent. It is unclear as to which Plaintiff this proposed
claim applies to. The damages alleged are as to Susan only. (See Proposed SAC ¶
116.) However, the claim is written as brought by Decedent’s Estate. (See Proposed
SAC Fifth Cause of Action Header.) As the claim is unclear, it appears that
this, too, may be rectified by amendment. 
 
Finally, as to PRMC’s
third argument, there are two forms of misrepresentation. Plaintiff’s proposed
sac alleges intentional misrepresentation. (See Proposed SAC ¶¶ 122-24.) “The
elements of fraud that will give rise to a tort action for deceit are: “ ‘(a) misrepresentation
(false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity
(or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d)
justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.’ ” (Engalla v. Permanente
Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 974; see also Service by
Medallion, Inc. v. Clorox Co. (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1807, 1816.) Plaintiff
has alleged that PRMC intentionally failed to disclose: (1) Decedent was able
to detach the wires on his body for a self-search of the closest bathroom, (2) PRMC
staff only first discovered Decedent was alone in the PRMC emergency department
bathroom upon hearing an individual breathing laboriously behind the bathroom
door but unable to get out, and (3) PRMC’s emergency room staff did not have
ready access to the key to the PRMC bathroom door in the emergency department
to unlock it, nor the fact that the key was nowhere to be found by the PRMC
staff in the emergency department. (Proposed SAC ¶¶ 122-24.) However, it also
appears that the gravamen of the claim is that PRMC informed Susan that
Decedent was supervised at every minute and that the alleged failures indicate
otherwise. Though not written as clearly as possible, the claim for
misrepresentation alleges that (1) PRMC falsely represented to Susan that
Decedent was being supervised, (2) the allegations in paragraphs 122 to 124 in
the proposed SAC show knowledge of the falsity, and (3) intent may exist as “fraudulent
intent is an issue for the trier of fact to decide” (Beckwith v. Dahl (2012)
205 Cal.App.4th 1039, 1061; see also Proposed SAC ¶ 128); and (4) damages in
the form of Susan’s continued extreme state of unrest, frustration,
uncertainty, and emotional distress. Reliance is unclear as paragraph 130,
which alleges the reliance, jumps from Decedent’s death to autopsy. As with the
other claims this, too, may be rectified by amendment. 
 
As the claims may be
rectified, there is a potential basis for punitive damages as the punitive
damages are derivative of the proposed causes of action. 
 
It is the Court’s
intent to grant this motion upon the filing of a new proposed SAC that address
the current deficiencies in the attached proposed SAC. 
 
(04/02/2024
Tentative.)
 
Plaintiffs presented that the Court’s tentative
was correct and that Plaintiffs intended to file a new proposed SAC that
included a new cause of action that was neither in the filed proposed SAC nor
discussed in the moving papers while led to the Court’s continuation of the
matter and a supplemental briefing schedule. (See 04/02/2024 Minute Order and 04/05/2024
Minute Order.)
 
Despite the representation by
Plaintiffs’ counsel, Kat Kazemi for Elizabeth Yang (“Kazemi”) at the hearing,
Plaintiffs now state they are “somewhat in the dark as to what exactly they are
to be ‘Supplemental Briefing’ insofar as they already urged to this Court that
its April 1, 2024 Tentative was on point. . .” (Supplemental Moving Papers
3:8-10.) The Court made clear that there were issues within the proposed SAC in
its tentative, provided ante. Thus, the Ruling on the Submitted Matter
made clear that Plaintiffs’ new proposed SAC should address the deficiencies
and it is patent that a new proposed SAC would need corresponding moving papers
that address the statutory requirements surrounding the new proposed cause of action.
(See legal standard, ante.) In light of the context of the supplemental
briefing schedule, including Kazemi’s own representation that the Court’s
tentative was correct and a new cause of action was needed, the Court does not
find Plaintiffs’ representations that they do not know what briefing is
required availing. 
 
Plaintiffs argue that the
proposed SAC rectifies any challenge points taken by PRMC, that the proposed
SAC contains six new causes of action, that the proposed SAC is deemed filed
and served as of the date of “this ruling,” and that the proposed SAC follows Radar
Co. v. Stone (1986) 178 Cal. App. 3d 10, 29.   
 
The Court notes that Kazemi
informed it that one new cause of action would be added to the proposed SAC,
instead there are now four more proposed causes of action: (1) Negligent
Hiring, Training, Supervision, and/or Retention; (2) Constructive Fraud; (3) Intentional
Misrepresentation; and (4) Negligent Misrepresentation. That is, there are
three completely new causes of action and one delineation of what was
previously titled “Misrepresentation” in the original Motion for Leave to
Amend. This is drastically different from what Kazemi presented to the Court on
April 02, 2024. Whether this misrepresentation was inattentional or not, the
Court reminds Kazemi that she owes a duty of candor to the tribunal. (See The
State Bar of California Rules of Professional Conduct, Rule 3.3 [Candor Toward
the Tribunal].)
 
PRMC states that was surprised to
find the changes in Plaintiffs’ new proposed SAC. PRMC argues that all
fraud-based causes of actions are actually premised on medical or professional
malpractice as they are based upon either an alleged (1) failure to report
Decedent’s death to the coroner pursuant to Health & Safety Code § 102850,
(2) failure of PRMC to report Decedent’s death as an “adverse event” pursuant
to Health & Safety Code § 1279.1, and/or (3) failure to provide adequate
telemetry supervision and monitoring to Decedent while he was a patient at
PRMC. PRMC presents that such actions fall within the Medical Injury
Compensation Reform Act (“MICRA”), and do not allow for a third-party cause of
action. PRMC contends that the fraud-based causes of actions are prejudicial
and untimely. PRMC further argues that all fraud-based causes of action are
brought by Susan in her individual capacity and, therefore, standing is an
issue. As Plaintiffs’ prayer for punitive damages are derived from the proposed
fraud-based causes of action, they must fail. 
 
Plaintiffs argue that PRMC’s
Supplemental Opposition “misses the park” as Plaintiffs have addressed the
deficiencies in the previously proposed SAC. Plaintiffs further present that
any prejudicing in timing is due to PRMC’s request for supplemental briefing
and that Plaintiff’s SAC should be appropriately deemed filed and served as of
the date of this ruling. 
 
The Court
directs the parties to the legal standard surrounding motions for leave to
amend, outlined ante. For convenience, the Court reiterates: “Under California Rules of Court Rule 3.1324,
a motion to amend a pleading before trial must (1) include a copy of the
proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to
differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what
allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located;
and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous
pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324(a).) A
separate supporting declaration specifying (1) the effect of the amendment; (2)
why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to
the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reason why the request for
amendment was not made earlier must accompany the motion. (Id., Rule
3.1324(b).)” (See Legal Standard, ante.) 
 
Plaintiffs’ moving papers include
the proposed SAC, which is serially numbered. Exhibit B to Kazemi’s declaration
for corresponding Supplemental Opening Papers includes a red-lined version of
the proposed SAC which satisfies Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324’s requirement
of showing which items are deleted and/or added by page, paragraph, and line number. Paragraph five of Kazemi’s declaration
specifies the effect of the amendment. Kazemi’s declaration discusses (1) that the
facts giving rise to the amendments were discovered on or about December 11,
2023 when PRMC produced discovery which explains why the request for amendment
was not made earlier must accompany the motion; and (2) that the amendment is
necessitated because it seeks in good faith to add/amend causes of
action that are consistent with the facts pleaded, but that were not originally
pleaded because they only recently came to light. 
 
The arguments in PRMC’s Supplemental Opposing Papers are more suited to
a demurrer rather than the current motion. 
 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS the Motion for Leave to Amend. 
 
-----
 
Conclusion
 
Plaintiff Susan Ekdahl,
individually, and as Administrator of the Estate of Edward A. Ekdahl and Edward
A. Ekdahl, by and through his Successor in Interest, Susan Ekdahl’s Motion for Leave
to File Second Amended Complaint is GRANTED.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to file a proposed Second Amended
Complaint as a separate filing within 10 days of this Court Order.


