  Case Number:  23STCV22636    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2023    Dept:  68 Juan Centeno vs. Mrs. Gooch’s Natural Food Markets, Inc.,
et al., 23STCV22636
Motion to Strike
Moving Parties: Defendants Mrs. Gooch’s Natural Food
Markets, Inc. and Whole Foods Market California, Inc.

Responding Party: Plaintiff Juan
Centeno

Motion to Strike
            This is an
employment law case in which Plaintiff Juan Centeno (Plaintiff) is alleging
that Defendants Mrs. Gooch’s Natural Food Markets, Inc. and Whole Foods Market
California, Inc. (Defendants) failed to provide him with disability accommodations
as his employers. He also alleges several other causes of action related to his
employment and termination.
            As part of
his complaint, Plaintiff has made requests for punitive damages at pp. 9:1-6; 10:24-27 – 11:1-2; 15:6-11; 16:17-22; 18:9-14;
and in paragraph 8 of the Prayer for Relief on p. 27. Defendants have moved
to strike Plaintiff’s requests for punitive damages on the basis that Plaintiff
has not pled facts supporting the requests.
            Any party,
within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a notice
of motion to strike the complaint or any part thereof. (CCP § 435.) A motion to
strike is authorized to strike any “irrelevant, false, or improper” matters, or
any portion of a pleading that is “not drawn in conformity with the laws of
this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (CCP § 436.)
            Punitive
damages are available where a Defendant is guilty of malice, oppression, or
fraud. (Civ. Code § 3294(a).) For corporate defendants, “the advance knowledge
and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression,
fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent
of the corporation.” (Civ. Code § 3294(b).)
            Plaintiff
does not allege any facts indicating that Defendants engaged in malice,
oppression, or fraud. Instead, Plaintiff just makes conclusory allegations
regarding the punitive damages without any specifics:
“Plaintiff is informed and
believes, and thereon alleges that the employees, officers, directors, and/or
managing agents of Defendants acted with malice and oppression, as their
unlawful acts were carried out with full knowledge of the extreme risk of injury,
involved, and with willful and conscious disregard for Plaintiff’s rights. They
also acted fraudulently, as they willfully concealed the fact that Plaintiff’s
employment rights were being violated, with the intent to deprive Plaintiff of
employment benefits. Accordingly, an award of punitive damages is warranted.”
(See Comp., p. 9:1-6, ¶ 38.) Plaintiff does not say who in
the corporation committed the allegedly fraudulent acts. Allegations of fraud
require specificity. Plaintiff has also not sufficiently alleged that
Defendants acted with malice and oppression; instead, Plaintiff has just stated
vague generalities. Plaintiff also does not allege whether it was an officer,
director, or managing agent who was responsible for the alleged acts.
            Based on
the foregoing, the Court grants Defendants’ motion to strike.
Order
            Defendants’
motion to strike Plaintiff’s requests for punitive damages from pp. 9:1-6;
10:24-27 – 11:1-2; 15:6-11; 16:17-22; 18:9-14; and in paragraph 8 of the Prayer
for Relief on p. 27 is GRANTED.