 Case Number:  21STCV44145    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 



JAMES MCLEARY, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
SEA VIEW INN AT THE BEACH, 
 INCORPORATED, et al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


21STCV44145




Hearing Date:


February 15, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
MOTION TO COMPEL
  INDEPENDENT MENTAL EXAMINATION OF PLAINTIFF JAMES MCCLEARY




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION


 



 
            Background
On December 2, 2021, Plaintiff James McLeary (“McCleary”)
filed this action against Defendants Sea View Inn at the Beach, Incorporated,
Hal Keasler, Jim Murphy, Branden Alonzo, and Vuong Nguyen (collectively,
“Defendants”).
On March 10, 2022, Sea View Inn at the Beach, Incorporated,
Hal Keasler, and Jim Murphy filed a Cross-Complaint against McCleary,
alleging causes of action for (1) conversion, (2) conversion, (3) injury to
property, (4) breach of fiduciary duty, (5) intentional infliction of emotional
distress, (6) violation of Civil Code section 51.7, (7) violation of Government Code section 12940(j), and (8) violation of Government Code section 12940(j).  
On May 1, 2023, the Court issued an Order in this action
providing, inter alia, that “[t]he Court, having considered the Parties’
Stipulation and good cause appearing therefor, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AS FOLLOWS:
1. Plaintiff James McCleary’s (‘Plaintiff’) Second Amended Complaint, attached
as Exhibit 4 to the Declaration of Susan Huerta in Support of Plaintiff’s [sic]
Leave to File And Amend Plaintiff James McCleary’s Second Amended Complaint for
Damages (the ‘SAC’) is deemed filed as of the date of this order….” 
McCleary’s Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) alleges causes of
action for (1) breach of oral contract, (2) breach of implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing, (3) failure to pay wages, (4) failure to pay minimum
wages (5) failure to pay overtime compensation, (6) failure to provide meal and
rest periods, (7) failure to pay all accrued vacation time, (8) violation of Labor Code sections 201-203, (9) retaliation in
violation of Labor Code sections 98.6 and 1102.5, (10) unfair business
practices pursuant to Business and Professions Code
section 17200, (11) wrongful termination in violation of public policy,
(12) misclassification, (13) failure to provide accurate itemized statements,
(14) violation of Labor Code section 2699, et seq.,
and (15) defamation per se. 
In her declaration in support of the instant motion, Defendants’
counsel states that she “called Plaintiff’s counsel, Susan Huerta, on August
17, 2023, to see if Plaintiff would stipulate to a mental examination or if a
noticed motion would be necessary.” (Veeneman Decl., ¶ 8.) Defendants’ counsel
states that “Plaintiff’s counsel emailed [a] proposed stipulation on August 30,
2023,” and that “Defendants were unable to agree to the stipulation as drafted
at that time as it had several restrictions and requirements that were
unjustified…” (Veeneman Decl., ¶¶ 9-10.) 
Defendants note that on September 27, 2023, they filed an Informal
Discovery Conference (“IDC”) Statement in advance of an October 4, 2023 IDC.
Defendants’ September 27, 2023 IDC Statement provides, inter alia, that
“[t]he parties have engaged in a meet and confer to determine whether they can
agree upon an independent medical examination protocol for Plaintiff’s
independent medical examination. While it appears that both parties agree that
an IME will need to take place, they disagree on the conditions of that IME…” 
The Court’s October 4, 2023 minute order in this action provides that
“Counsel for Defendant indicates that Plaintiff is not able to attend the
Informal Discovery Conference hearing this date. Pursuant to the request of
plaintiff, the Informal Discovery Conference (IDC) scheduled for 10/04/2023 is
continued to 10/23/23…” Defendants’ counsel states that thereafter, on October
12, 2023 and October 20, 2023, the parties met and conferred regarding the
proposed mental exam. (Veeneman Decl., ¶¶ 13-15.) 
On October 23, 2023, an IDC was held. The Court’s October 23, 2023
minute order provides, inter alia, “[i]n open court, the Informal
Discovery Conference is held. The Court Orders all discovery currently pending
with Plaintiff to be completed by October 25, 2023. The Informal Discovery
Conference currently reserved for November 2, 2023 at 11:30a.m. is to be a
follow-up IDC.” Defendants’ counsel states that “Defendants agreed to continue
the IDC one more time to November 2, 2023, in the hopes that the parties would
be able to resolve the issues informally.” (Veeneman Decl., ¶ 16.)
On November 2, 2023, another IDC was held. (Veeneman Decl., ¶ 17.) Defendants’
counsel states in her supporting declaration that “[w]hile preparing this
motion, I came across California Civil Procedure Code [sic] § 2032.320, which indicated that an order granting a
mental examination should specify the diagnostic tests and procedures to be
performed…In light of this discovery, Defendants decided to reach out to
Plaintiff one last time, with the specific tests identified. As the
identification of the specific tests were the only issue Plaintiff’s counsel
raised in the parties’ meet and confers and at the IDC, Defendants were hopeful
that the parties would be able to reach an agreement.” (Veeneman Decl., ¶¶
18-19.) 
Defendants’ counsel asserts that “[o]n December 14, 2023, I sent
Plaintiff’s counsel the proposed order to this Motion, listing out all the
information required in California Civil Procedure Code
§ 2032.310, et seq. Over the next several weeks, the Parties again
discussed the terms of a potential stipulation. Ultimately, the parties were
unable to reach a stipulation as they could not agree on the following terms:
(1) the duration of the Proposed Mental Exam, (2) the scope of the history and
mental status examination portion of the Proposed Mental Exam, and (3)
production of data from the exam per California Civil
Procedure Code § 2032.610.” (Veeneman Decl., ¶ 20.) 
Defendants now move for an order compelling McCleary to a mental
examination. McCleary opposes.  
Discussion 
“¿Any party may
obtain discovery…by means of a physical or mental examination of (1) a party to
the action, (2) an agent of any party, or (3) a natural person in the custody
or under the legal control of a party, in any action in which the mental or
physical condition…of that party or other person is in controversy in the
action.¿” (¿¿Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2032.020, subd. (a)¿¿.) Absent stipulation, mental examinations
require a court order. Such order may be made only after notice and hearing,
and “¿for good cause shown.¿” (¿Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd. (a)¿; ¿¿Carpenter v. Superior Court (2006) 141
Cal.App.4th 249, 259 [“To
protect the plaintiff’s privacy interests from unnecessary intrusion, the
mental examination may be ordered only upon a showing of good cause.”]¿¿.) A showing of
good cause requires that the party “¿produce specific facts
justifying discovery and that the inquiry be relevant to the subject matter of
the action or reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.¿”
(¿¿Vinson v. Superior
Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840¿¿.)  
In the
motion, Defendants first assert that “[McCleary’s] mental state
is undeniably in controversy in this matter.” (Mot. at p. 12:19.) Defendants note that in
the SAC’s ninth cause of action for retaliation, McCleary alleges that “[a]s
a result of the aforesaid acts of Defendants, and each of them, Plaintiff
claims general damages for mental and emotional distress and aggravation in an
amount to be proven at the time of trial.” (SAC, ¶ 76.) McCleary further
alleges in the eleventh cause of action for wrongful termination in violation
of public policy that “[a]s a proximate result of Defendants’ wrongful conduct,
Plaintiff has sustained and continues to sustain non-economic damages and
emotional distress, including, but not limited to, loss of sleep, anxiety,
tension, depression, and humiliation.” (SAC, ¶ 93.) In addition, in connection
with the fifteenth cause of action for defamation per se, McCleary alleges that
“[a]s a proximate result of the publication and republication of these
defamatory statements by Defendants, and each of them, Plaintiff has suffered
injury to his personal, business and professional reputation, including
suffering embarrassment, humiliation, severe emotional distress, shunning,
anguish, fear, loss of employment and employability, and economic loss in the
form of lost wages and future earnings, all to Plaintiff’s economic, emotional,
and general damage in an amount according to proof.” (SAC, ¶ 119.) 
Defendants
also assert that “[t]he relevance of Plaintiff’s mental state is
further confirmed by Plaintiff’s responses to written discovery.” (Mot. at p.
12:24-25.) Defendants
reference, for example, their Form Interrogatory No. 212.2 to McCleary, which
provides, “Identify each physical, mental, or emotional injury
that you attribute to the ADVERSE EMPLOYMENT ACTION and the area of your body
affected.” (Veeneman Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. B, McCleary’s Response to Form
Interrogatories – Employment Law, Set No. One.) McCleary’s response to Form Interrogatory
No. 212.2 states, inter alia, “[s]ubject to and without
waiving the foregoing objections, and to the extent Responding Party
understands this interrogatory, Responding Party responds as follows: Anxiety,
stress, loss of sleep, depression and humiliation.” (Ibid.)

Defendants also note that on or about April 11, 2023, McCleary served
his Designation of Expert Witnesses, which lists, inter alia, Dr.
Anthony E. Reading, Ph.D and Jacqueline Nolan, PsyD. as retained experts.
(Veeneman Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. E.) McCleary’s Designation of Expert Witnesses
indicates that Dr. Reading and Dr. Nolan are expected to testify at trial
regarding, inter alia, “Plaintiff’s claims as they relate to his mental
state; Plaintiff’s emotional distress, the cause of Plaintiff’s emotional
distress, the effects of Defendant’s conduct on Plaintiff’s emotional distress;
the severity of Plaintiff emotional distress, current and future mental
condition and treatment thereof; Plaintiff’s psychiatric state; diagnoses as
they related to his mental state, psychiatric state, and or emotional distress;
Plaintiff’s psychological injuries; Plaintiff’s medical records, history, and treatment;
the treatment Plaintiff received from his healthcare providers; the diagnoses
provided by Plaintiff’s healthcare providers; and Plaintiff’s emotional
distress damages, and the consequences of the termination on his psychiatric
state or emotional or mental condition.” (Ibid.)
Defendants assert that “[t]he Proposed Mental Exam is particularly appropriate
when considering the fact that Plaintiff intends to call two experts who will
presumably have had a chance to examine Plaintiff.” (Mot. at p. 13:21-23.) 
Defendants
further assert that “good cause exists to permit the Proposed
Mental Exam as the proposed tests are relevant to the case…” (Mot. at p.
13:5-6.) Defendants
assert that “the tests that made up the Proposed Mental Exam are
specifically tailored to assess Plaintiff’s mental state so as to test the
legitimacy of Plaintiff’s emotional distress claims and explore any alternative
causes of the alleged harm.” (Mot. at p. 13:7-9.) Defendants’ proposed order in
support of the motion provides, inter alia, that “[t]he examination will
be performed by Dr. Paul Barkopoulos, M.D., M.P.H., a licensed physician whose
specialty is psychiatry, and by such assistants and colleagues as Dr.
Barkopoulos may call upon to assist or to advise him in the examination. The
examination will take place virtually, via a compliant electronic medical
platform, either Zoom or Pearson Testing, on March 1, 2024, beginning at 9:00
a.m. and continuing for so long as reasonably required and without any other
persons being present.” (Defendants’ Proposed Order at p. 2:8-13.) The proposed
order further provides that “[t]he examination will be a mental examination
only, with no invasive physical tests, and shall consist of the following
tests, diagnostic procedures, and examinations: 1. A history and mental status
examination 2. Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory-2 (‘MMPI-2’) 3.
Montreal Cognitive Assessment (‘MoCA’) 4. An evaluation per the Global
Assessment of Functioning (‘GAF’) Scale or Barkley Functional Impairment Scale
for Adults. 5. Patient health Questionnaire-9 (‘PHQ-9’) Inventory.” (Defendants’
Proposed Order at p. 2:14-21.) 
Defendants also argue that “good cause exists to permit the Proposed
Mental Exam as Plaintiff has provided little to no evidence to date to support
his emotional distress claims.” (Mot. at p. 13:12-13.) Defendants assert that McCleary
“has made it clear that he intends to call two experts to opine on his alleged
emotional distress…Despite this, Plaintiff has provided no real facts to
support his emotional distress claim in response to interrogatories…Notably,
Plaintiff admits that he has not previously sought treatment from any medical
professionals, meaning no medical records of the alleged condition exist…Similarly,
Plaintiff admits that no documents exist to support his emotional distress
claim.” (Mot. at p. 13:13-20.) In support of this assertion, Defendants cite to
their Special Interrogatories, Set Two to McCleary. (Veeneman Decl., ¶ 5, Ex.
D.) 
Defendants’ Special Interrogatory No. 17 to McCleary states, “IDENTIFY
all medical professionals (including, but not limited to, doctors,
psychologists, psychiatrists and nurse practitioners) that have treated YOU for
any physical, mental, and/or emotional medical issues, from January 1, 2017 to
present.” (Veeneman Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. D.) Defendants’ Special Interrogatory No.
18 states, “IDENTIFY all medical offices (including hospitals) YOU have been to
for treatment of any physical, mental, and/or emotional medical issue, from
January 1, 2017 to present.” (Ibid.)
McCleary’s response to Special Interrogatories No. 17 and 18 is “None.” (Ibid.) In addition, Defendants’ Special
Interrogatory No. 21 states, “Please IDENTIFY any DOCUMENTS RELATING TO any of
the emotional distress symptoms described in YOUR response to Special
Interrogatory No. 19.”[1] (Ibid.) McCleary’s response to Special
Interrogatory No. 21 states, “Objection. Attorney-client and attorney word
[sic] product privilege. Plaintiff is not aware of any documents, other than
communication with his attorneys of record regarding his emotional distress
symptoms.” (Ibid.) Defendants assert that
“[t]he Proposed Mental Exam, then, is likely the only method by which
Defendants can test the legitimacy of Plaintiff’s emotional distress claim.”
(Mot. at p. 13:20-21.) 
McCleary does not
dispute that his mental condition is in controversy in this action. 
However, McCleary raises other
arguments in the opposition. 
As an initial matter,
McCleary asserts that “Defendants failed to meet and confer in good
faith in violation of CCP § 2016.040.” (Opp’n at p.
2:13.) The Court disagrees. Code of Civil Procedure section 2016.040 provides that “[a] meet and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state
facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of
each issue presented by the motion.” As discussed above, Defendants’ counsel
attempted to meet and confer with McCleary’s counsel on multiple occasions, and
the parties participated in IDCs. (See the Declaration of Catherine
A. Veeneman.)  
Next, McCleary asserts that he “is entitled to an order which
specifies the manner, all diagnostic tests and procedures, conditions, and
nature of the examination.” (Opp’n at p. 9:4-5.) McCleary cites to Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.320, subdivision (d), which provides that “[a]n
order granting a physical or mental examination shall specify the person or
persons who may perform the examination, as well as the time, place, manner,
diagnostic tests and procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.”

McCleary states in the motion that he “only takes issue
with the lack of specificity as to what a history and mental status examination
is, as failing to comply with Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §
2032.320(d).” (Opp’n at p. 8:1-2.) Defendants do not appear to respond to
this point in the reply. The Court agrees that the proposed order should more
clearly specify the scope and nature of the proposed “history and mental status
examination.” (Defendants’ Proposed Order at p. 2:16.) Thus, Defendants shall submit a revised proposed order that specifies the
scope and nature of the “history and mental status examination.” 
McCleary also asserts in
the opposition that “Defendants’ proposed order fails to comply with Cal. Code Civ Proc. §§ 2032.610 and 2032.530…” (Mot.
at p. 2:7.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2032.610, subdivision (a) provides that “[i]f a party submits to, or
produces another for, a physical or mental examination in compliance with a
demand under Article 2 (commencing with Section
2032.210), an order of court under Article 3 (commencing with Section 2032.310), or an agreement under Section 2016.030, that party has the option of making
a written demand that the party at whose instance the examination was made
deliver both of the following to the demanding party: (1) A copy of a detailed written report setting out the history,
examinations, findings, including the results of all tests made, diagnoses,
prognoses, and conclusions of the examiner. (2) A copy of reports of all earlier examinations
of the same condition of the examinee made by that or any other examiner.” Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 2032.610, subdivision (b), “[i]f the option under
subdivision (a) is exercised, a copy of the requested reports shall be
delivered within 30 days after service of the demand, or within 15 days of
trial, whichever is earlier.” 
In addition, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 2032.530, subdivision
(a), cited by
McCleary, “[t]he examiner and
examinee shall have the right to record a mental examination by audio
technology.” 
As an initial matter, it is
unclear if McCleary is contending that Defendants’ proposed order is
insufficient because it does not list the requirements of Code of
Civil Procedure sections 2032.610 and 2032.530. To the extent that is what McCleary is arguing,
McCleary does not appear to cite any legal authority stating that the
requirements of such Code sections must be included in Defendants’ proposed
order. As McCleary acknowledges, Code of Civil
Procedure section 2032.320, subdivision (d) provides that “[a]n order granting a physical or mental examination shall
specify the person or persons who may perform the examination, as well as the
time, place, manner, diagnostic tests and procedures, conditions, scope, and
nature of the examination.”  
Defendants also note that
McCleary’s proposed “Order Re: The Defense Mental Examination of
Plaintiff” provides, inter alia, that “[w]ithin fifteen (15) days of the
DME, Defendant shall produce the following to Plaintiff’s counsel: The detailed
written report of the Defense Mental Examiner (setting out the history,
examinations, findings, including the results of all tests made, diagnoses,
prognoses, and conclusions of the examiner); any and all other reports related
to Plaintiff (including other reports related to psychological testing, whether
done by computer scoring, hand scoring, or any other method); a copy of reports
of all earlier examinations of the same condition of the examinee made by that
or any other examiner. and any and all information the Defense Mental Examiner
uses, considers, or relies on in reaching his or her conclusions…” (Huerta
Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A, ¶ 13.) 
But as discussed, Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.610, subdivision (a) provides that “[i]f a party submits to, or
produces another for, a physical or mental examination in compliance with a
demand under Article 2 (commencing with Section
2032.210), an order of court under Article 3 (commencing with Section 2032.310), or an agreement under Section 2016.030, that party has the option of making
a written demand that the party at whose instance the examination was made
deliver both of the following to the demanding party: (1) A copy of a detailed written report setting out the history,
examinations, findings, including the results of all tests made, diagnoses,
prognoses, and conclusions of the examiner. (2) A copy of reports of all earlier examinations
of the same condition of the examinee made by that or any other examiner.” Thus, as noted by Defendants,
McCleary’s proposed order appears to seek information beyond what is
required by the Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.610, subdivision (a). 
In addition, pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.610, subdivision (b), “[i]f the option under
subdivision (a) is exercised, a copy of the requested reports shall be
delivered within 30 days after service of the demand, or within 15 days of
trial, whichever is earlier.” (Emphasis added.) As Defendants note,
McCleary’s proposed order is not consistent with this Code section, as it
requires that the subject information be provided “[w]ithin
fifteen (15) days of the DME…” (Huerta Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A, ¶ 13.)
McCleary also asserts that “Defendants’
motion should be denied unless Dr. Barkopoulos agrees to produce the requested
materials to [McCleary’s] attorney and expert subject to a protective order.”
(Opp’n at p. 13:20-21.) As discussed, the process for obtaining a “copy of a detailed written report setting
out the history, examinations, findings, including the results of all tests
made, diagnoses, prognoses, and conclusions of the examiner” is set forth in Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.610. In addition, McCleary’s opposition does not
appear to contain any arguments as to why a proposed order is necessary here.
In addition, in the reply, Defendants state that “regarding the
proposed protective order, Defendants are not opposed to a protective order,
however the parties already have a protective order in place in this matter…”
(Reply at p. 12:10-11.)  
Lastly, McCleary states that he “request [sic] that the Court order
the defense mental examination pursuant to the…stipulation and protective order
attached as Exhibit A to the Declaration of Susan R. Huerta…” (Opp’n at p.
4:3-5.) In the reply, Defendants state that they have a number of issues with
the proposed stipulation, and that “[a] full accounting of all issues with
Plaintiff’s Stipulation can be found in Exhibit L to the Motion.” (Reply at p.
11:5-6.) The Court notes that McCleary does not cite legal authority
demonstrating that the Court must utilize McCleary’s proposed stipulation and
order. Defendants are the moving party and have submitted a proposed order. The
Court addressed McCleary’s arguments pertaining to Defendants’ proposed order
herein, and as discussed above, the Court only finds that McCleary has shown
that further detail should be provided in the proposed order as to the subject “history
and mental status examination.” (Defendants’ Proposed Order at p. 2:16.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Defendants have
demonstrated good cause for an order compelling McCleary to a mental
examination. 
            Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion to compel
independent mental examination is granted. Defendants are ordered to file and
serve a revised proposed order reflecting the limitations discussed above by
_____________, 2024. 
Defendants are ordered to provide notice of this ruling. 
            
DATED:  February 15, 2024                          ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


