 Case Number:  23STLC01469    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Western Surety Company,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STLC01469




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Richard Noyer, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date:
April 16, 2024
Department 54,
Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to
Deposit Bond Funds and Discharge Plaintiff Western Surety Company
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Western Surety Company
Responding
Party: None
 
T/R:      PLAINTIFF’S MOTION IS GRANTED.      
 
PLAINTIFF TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email the
courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers. No opposition has been received.
 
Plaintiff
requests to deposit with the Court the full penalty of the Bond in the sum of
$15,000 and to be discharged from all liability asserted against it with
respect to the Bond, with any legal actions pending against the proceeds of the
Bond on behalf of any claimant to be dismissed as to Plaintiff.  Plaintiff also asks to be awarded reasonable
attorney’s fees and court costs in the sum of $2,000 as allowance for its
expenses incurred by the filing of its Complaint in Interpleader.  
Code of Civil
Procedure, section 386, subdivision (b) provides that: “Any person, firm,
corporation, association or other entity against whom double or multiple claims
are made, or may be made, by two or more persons which are such that they may
give rise to double or multiple liability, may bring an action against the
claimants to compel them to interplead and litigate their several claims.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 386, subd. (b).)  “When the person, firm, corporation,
association or other entity against whom such claims are made, or may be made,
is a defendant in an action brought upon one or more of such claims, it … may
bring a separate action against the claimants to compel them to interplead and
litigate their several claims.  The
action of interpleader may be maintained although the claims have not a common
origin, are not identical but are adverse to and independent of one another, or
the claims are unliquidated and no liability on the part of the party bringing
the action or filing the cross–complaint has arisen.”  (Ibid.)
“Where the only
relief sought against one of the defendants is the payment of a stated amount
of money alleged to be wrongfully withheld, such defendant may, upon affidavit
that he is a mere stakeholder with no interest in the amount or any portion
thereof and that conflicting demands have been made upon him for the amount by
parties to the action, upon notice to such parties, apply to the court for an
order discharging him from liability and dismissing him from the action on his
depositing with the clerk of the court the amount in dispute and the court may,
in its discretion, make such order.”  (Id.
§ 386.5.)
Plaintiff has
filed a Complaint for Interpleader, asserting that it does not know and cannot
determine the respective merits of the remaining claimants who assert
conflicting claims against the subject bond, and that plaintiff has no safe,
expedient, or economical remedy other than this proceeding in
interpleader.  (Decl. Stratton.)  Stratton attests that the subject of the
motion is a $15,000 contractor’s state license bond issued to Zenernet
Installation Company, LLC as principal. 
This declaration is sufficient to comply with the requirements of
section 386.5.  
Plaintiff’s
motion is GRANTED.


 