  Case Number:  23CHCV01396    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  F49    Dept.    F49      Date:    6/3/24     Case    Name: Ushakant Thakkar and Irma Thakkar v. Nikita Julia Kakhnenko, and    Does 1 through 10     Case    # 23CHCV01396      LOS  ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT NORTH  VALLEY DISTRICT DEPARTMENT  F49    JUNE 3, 2024    MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO DEMANDS  FOR INSPECTION AND PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET ONE, AND REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS  Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 23CHCV01396    Motion  filed: 12/27/23   MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs Ushakant Thakkar and Irma  Thakkar (“Plaintiffs”) RESPONDING PARTY: None NOTICE: OK   RELIEF  REQUESTED: An  order from this Court to compel Defendant Nikita Julia Kakhnenko’s (“Defendant”)  responses, without objections, to Demands for Inspection and Production of  Documents, Set One, and to impose monetary sanctions against Defendant in the  amount of $736.65.   TENTATIVE  RULING: The  motion is GRANTED. The request for monetary sanction is GRANTED IN PART.   BACKGROUND   This case arises from an alleged contract dispute between  the landlord plaintiffs and the tenant defendant.   On May 11, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their Complaint against  Defendant and Does 1 through 10, alleging the following causes of action: (1)  Breach of Contract; (2) Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, and  (3) Negligence. Subsequently, Defendant filed an Answer to the Complaint on June  16, 2023.   On December 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion to  Compel Defendant’s responses to Demands for Inspection and Production of  Documents, Set One (the “Motion”).   No opposition has been received by the Court.    ANALYSIS   If a party to whom a demand for inspection, copying,  testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve a timely response to it, the  party making the demand may move for an order compelling responses and for a  monetary sanction.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (b).)  The  party that fails to timely respond waives any objection to the demand,  including one based on privilege or on the protection for work product, unless  the Court, on motion, determines that both of the following conditions are  satisfied: (1) the party has subsequently served a response that is in  substantial compliance, and (2) the party’s failure to serve a timely response  was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. (Code Civ.  Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a).)    “A separate statement is not required under the following  circumstances: (1) when no response has been provided to the request for  discovery[.]” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(b).)   A.     Motion to  Compel Responses to Demands for Inspection and Production of Documents, Set One   Plaintiffs’ counsel attests that on October 25, 2023, Plaintiffs  served Demands for Inspection and Production of Documents, Set One, on  Defendant. (Brown Decl., ¶ 2.) However, Defendant has failed to respond to the  said Demands for Inspection and Production of Documents, Set One; nor did  Defendant request any extension by the time of the filing of the Motion. (Mot.,  at p. 4, Brown Decl., ¶ 3.)      Given the absence of any opposition from the Defendant and  the records cited above, the Court finds that Defendant has failed to serve a  timely response, thereby waiving any objections to the Demands for Inspection  and Production of Documents, including those based on privilege or the  protection for work product, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.300,  subdivision (a).     Therefore, the Court GRANTS the Motion to Compel Defendant’s  Responses to Plaintiffs’ Demands for Inspection and Production of Documents,  Set One.   B.      Monetary  Sanctions   Plaintiffs also seek monetary sanctions against Defendant  under the authority of Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.300.   Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.300,  subdivision (c), “The Court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7  (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who  unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to demand for  inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the one subject  to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other  circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust....”  Additionally, California Rules of Court rule  3.1348(A) further provides, “The Court may award sanctions under the Discovery  Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no  opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,  or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion  was filed.”   Here, Defendant did not provide responses to the Demands  for Inspection and Production of Documents, nor did Defendant file an Opposition  to the Motion. Accordingly, based on the above records and authorities, the Court  finds that it is appropriate to impose monetary sanctions. Furthermore, the  Court notes the instant Motion shares significant similarities with a  concurrently filed separate motion to compel responses to form interrogatories.  Accordingly, it adjusts and determines the total and reasonable amount of  attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work performed in connection with  the Motion to be $ 286.65, calculated based on 0.5 hours of attorney work at an  hourly rate of $450, in addition to a $ 61.65 filing fee.              CONCLUSION   Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Respondent’s Responses to Demands  for Inspection and Production of Documents, Set One, is GRANTED.   Defendant is ordered to serve and file responses to the Demands  for Inspection and Production of Documents, Set One, without objections, within  20 days of notice of this order.   Plaintiffs’ Request for Monetary Sanctions is GRANTED IN  PART.   Defendant is ordered to pay $ 286.65 to Plaintiffs within 20  days.   Moving party to give notice.  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------   Dept.    F49      Date:    6/3/24     Case    Name: Ushakant Thakkar and Irma Thakkar v. Nikita Julia Kakhnenko, and    Does 1 through 10     Case    # 23CHCV01396      LOS  ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT NORTH  VALLEY DISTRICT DEPARTMENT  F49    JUNE 3, 2024    MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO FORM  INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE, AND REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS  Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 23CHCV01396    Motion  filed: 12/27/23   MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs Ushakant Thakkar and Irma  Thakkar (“Plaintiffs”) RESPONDING PARTY: None NOTICE: OK    RELIEF  REQUESTED: An  order from this Court to compel Defendant Nikita Julia Kakhnenko’s (“Defendant”)  responses, without objections, to Form Interrogatories, Set One, and to impose  monetary sanctions against Defendant in the amount of $736.65.   TENTATIVE  RULING: The  motion is GRANTED. The request for monetary sanction is GRANTED IN PART.   BACKGROUND   This case arises from an alleged contract dispute between  the landlord plaintiffs and the tenant defendant.   On May 11, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their Complaint against  Defendant and Does 1 through 10, alleging the following causes of action: (1)  Breach of Contract; (2) Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, and  (3) Negligence. Subsequently, Defendant filed an Answer to the Complaint on June  16, 2023.   On December 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion to  Compel Defendant’s responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One (the “Motion”).   No opposition has been received by the Court.    ANALYSIS   If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to  serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling  responses and for a monetary sanction.  (Code Civ. Proc., §  2030.290(b).)  The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel  where no responses have been served.  All that needs to be shown in the  moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the  opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of  any kind has been served.  (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111  Cal.App.3d 902, 905-06.)    “A separate statement is not required under the following  circumstances: (1) when no response has been provided to the request for  discovery[.]” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(b).)   A.     Motion to  Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One   Plaintiffs’ counsel attests that on October 25, 2023, Plaintiffs  served Form Interrogatories, Set One, on Defendant. (Brown Decl., ¶ 2.)  However, Defendant has failed to respond to the said Form Interrogatories, Set  One, nor did Defendant request any extension by the time of the filing of the  Motion. (Mot., at p. 4, Brown Decl., ¶ 3.)      Given the absence of any opposition from the Defendant and  the records cited above, the Court finds that Defendant has failed to serve a  timely response, thereby waiving any objections to the interrogatories,  including those based on privilege or the protection for work product, pursuant  to Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.290, subdivision (a).     Therefore, the Court GRANTS the Motion to Compel Defendant’s  Responses to Plaintiffs’ Form Interrogatories, Set One.   B.      Monetary  Sanctions   Plaintiffs also seek monetary sanctions against Defendant  under the authority of Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.290.   Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.290,  subdivision (c), “The Court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7  (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who  unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to  interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted  with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition  of the sanction unjust....”   Additionally, California Rules of Court rule 3.1348(A) further provides,  “The Court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who  files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was  filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery  was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”   Here, Defendant did not provide responses to the Form  Interrogatories nor file an Opposition to the Motion. Accordingly, based on the  above records and authorities, the Court finds that it is appropriate to impose  monetary sanctions. The Court determines the total and reasonable amount of  attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work performed in connection with  the Motion to be $ 511.65, calculated based on one hour of attorney work at an  hourly rate of $450, in addition to a $ 61.65 filing fee.              CONCLUSION   Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Defendant’s responses to Form  Interrogatories, Set One, is GRANTED.   Defendant is ordered to serve and file responses to the Form  Interrogatories, Set One, without objections, within 20 days of notice of this  order.   Plaintiffs’ Request for Monetary Sanctions is GRANTED IN  PART.   Defendant is ordered to pay $ 511.65 to Plaintiffs within 20  days.   Moving party to give notice.  