 Case Number:  20STCV39538    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or adopt
the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 
If all parties do not submit on this tentative ruling, they should
arrange to appear in-person or remotely. 
Further, after the Court has posted/issued a
tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent authority to prohibit the
withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the tentative ruling as the order of
the Court.  

 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


October 6, 2023




CASE NUMBER


20STCV39538




MOTION


(1)  
  Motion to Compel Deposition of Dr. Amin Javid
(2)  
  Motion to Compel Deposition of Plaintiff




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Hector Cuellar Merida




OPPOSING PARTY


None 



 
MOTION
 
Defendant Hector Cuellar Merida (“Defendant”)
moves for an order compelling the deposition of Dr. Amin Javid and the
deposition of Plaintiff Debbie Warren (“Plaintiff”). Defendant also seeks an
order imposing monetary sanctions against Plaintiff. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Motion to Compel Compliance with
Deposition Subpoena
 
“Personal service of any deposition subpoena
is effective to require all of the following of any deponent who is a resident
of California at the time of service: (1) Personal attendance and testimony, if
the subpoena so specifies.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (c)(1).) Code
of Civil Procedure section 1987.1 provides, “If a subpoena requires the
attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, electronically
stored information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by [a party or a witness] . . . may make an order . . . directing
compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare,
including protective orders.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.)
 
Except as specified in subdivision (c), in
making an order pursuant to motion made under subdivision (c) of Section 1987
or under Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award the amount of
the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including
reasonable attorney's fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed
in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the
requirements of the subpoena was oppressive. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2, subd.
(a).)
 
Civil Procedure section 2023.030(a) provides
that the “court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in
the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or
both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone
as a result of that conduct.”
 
Here, counsel for Defendant declares as
follows: Plaintiff sought treatment from Dr. Amin Javid for her alleged
injuries arising from the accident at issue. (Solis Decl. ¶ 3.) On June 1,
2023, Defendant served a notice of taking of deposition and deposition subpoena
of Dr. Javid and sent a confirming email to Plaintiff’s counsel. (Id. at ¶ 4.)
On July 11, 2023, Dr. Javid and defense counsel appeared for the deposition.
Plaintiff’s counsel did not appear until defense counsel’s office called
counsel; Plaintiff’s counsel then stated he was not available, he was not
provided adequate notice, and the deposition had previously been cancelled.
(Id. ¶ 5.) Counsel sent written correspondence to Plaintiff’s counsel who has
still not responded. (Id. ¶ 6.)
 
Counsel validly served a deposition subpoena
and a notice of taking of deposition. No objections were served. Pursuant to
the subpoena, Dr. Javid appeared. However, the deposition could not proceed
because of Plaintiff’s counsel’s conduct. No opposition to this motion has been
filed. The Court grants Defendant’s motion to compel the deposition of Dr.
Javid.
 
In addition, the Court finds that sanctions
are warranted due to Plaintiff’s discovery abuse. Defendant has incurred the
following costs: $1,260 for Dr. Javid’s appearance fees, $938.50 for court
reporter fees, $2,300 in attorney’s fees, and $60 filing fee. While the Court
finds the attorney’s fees excessive because they include preparing for the
deposition, the other fees are reasonable. Accordingly, the Court orders
Plaintiff’s counsel to pay sanctions in the amount of $3,408.50 (5 hours of
attorney’s fees at $230 an hour, expert and court reporter fees, and the filing
fee).
 
Motion to Compel Deposition of Plaintiff
 
“If, after
service of a deposition notice, a party to the action . . . , without having
served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for
examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document .
. . described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move
for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the
production for inspection of any document . . . described in the deposition
notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,
subd. (a).)
 
            “A motion under subdivision (a)
[above] shall comply with both of the following:
 
1.    
The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good
cause justifying the production for inspection of any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.
2.    
The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the
deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or
things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the
petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b).)
 
“If a motion under subdivision (a) is
granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction . . . in favor of the party
who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent
is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)
 
Counsel for Defendant states that the
deposition of Plaintiff has been noticed three times. (Muench Decl. ¶ 4.)
Although objections were not served, Plaintiff’s counsel notified defense
counsel that he could not attend the first two. (Muench Decl. ¶ 5, 6.)  Defendant’s counsel then had a telephonic
conversation with counsel for Plaintiff, who indicated that if Defendant did
not pay his client’s policy limits, Plaintiff’s counsel would not allow any
depositions to go forward and Defendant would have to file discovery motions.
(Muench Decl. ¶ 7; Exh. F.) Defendant’s counsel noticed the third deposition of
Plaintiff, and Plaintiff’s counsel stated he is not available and would not
provide alternative dates until he spoke with counsel. (Muench Decl. ¶ 8.)
 
Plaintiff, through counsel, has expressed an
intent not to appear for deposition. Moreover, by not filing an opposition,
Plaintiff’s counsel has admitted the merits of this motion. The Court therefore
grants the motion to compel.
 
Moreover, sanctions are warranted for the
discovery abuse. Defendant requests sanctions in the amount of $2,685 against
Plaintiff for attorney’s fees and costs with regard to this motion, however
that amount includes the time spent preparing for the deposition. The Court
finds that sanctions in the amount of $1,210 are reasonable and warranted (5
hours of attorney time plus $60 filing fee).
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to
compel the deposition of Dr. Javid is granted. Dr. Javid is ordered to appear
for deposition at a time and location provided by Defendant, within 20 days.
 
Plaintiff’s counsel is ordered to
pay sanctions in the amount of $3,408.50 to counsel for Defendant within 20
days.
 
Defendant’s motion to compel the
deposition of Plaintiff is granted. Plaintiff is ordered to appear at a time
and location provided by Defendant, within 20 days.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to pay
sanctions in the amount of $1,210 to counsel for Defendant within 20 days.
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s rulings and file a proof of service
of such. 
 