 Case Number:  22STCV19315    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or adopt
the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 
If all parties do not submit on this tentative ruling, they should
arrange to appear in-person or remotely. 
Further, after the Court has posted/issued a
tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent authority to prohibit the
withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the tentative ruling as the order of
the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  6, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV19315




MOTIONS:  


(1)  
  Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories,
  Set One  
(2)  
  Compel Further Responses to Demand for Production of
  Documents, Set One.
(3)  
  Compel Further Responses to Requests for Admissions,
  Set One 
(4)  
  Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set
  One.




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Rima Grigoryan




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Ralphs Grocery Company 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On June 14, 2022, Plaintiff Rima Grigoryan (Plaintiff) filed this
action against Defendants Ralphs Grocery Company (Ralphs), Kroger, and Does 1
to 50 for premises liability after an alleged slip and fall. 
 
On April 27, 2023, Plaintiff propounded requests for documents,
special and form interrogatories, and requested for admissions on Ralphs. Ralphs
served its responses on June 1, 2023. Plaintiff contends the responses are
deficient because they are not verified, evasive, and incomplete. Ralphs
opposes. 
 
Plaintiff
has not filed any reply brief nor updated the motions since the Informal
Discovery Conference (“IDC”). Accordingly, it is not clear what issues remain.
For instance, the parties have not clarified whether verified responses have now
been received. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Compel
Further Requests for Production
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310(a) provides that on
receipt of a response to a request for production of documents, the demanding
party may move for an order compelling further responses if: 
 
(1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete. 
(2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive. 
(3) An objection in the response is without merit or too
general.  
 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2031.320(a) provides that “[i]f a party filing a
response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling under
Sections 2031.210, 2031.220, 2031.230, 2031.240, and 2031.280 thereafter fails
to permit the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling in accordance with that
party's statement of compliance, the demanding party may move for an order
compelling compliance.”
 
“Unless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of
the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or
on or before any specific later date to which the demanding party and the
responding party have agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any right
to compel a further response to the demand.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310(c).)   
 
            Here, Plaintiff appears to seek the
following: a verified response to Request for Production Number 3, the
surveillance video from two hours before and after the incident rather than one
hour before and five minutes after the incident as agreed by Defendant, and
production of the video itself.
 
            As an initial matter, the Court
agrees with Defendant that Plaintiff did not raise the issue of the length of
time of the video at the IDC, and therefore this request is procedurally
defective. However, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion for a verified response
and for production of the video as agreed upon by Defendant (one hour before
and five minutes after the incident), even if it results in production of the
video prior to the deposition of Plaintiff.
 
            Defendant cites to Appendix 3.A of
the Los Angeles Superior Court Local Rules, which discusses the priority of
depositions, and the delay of depositions. Defendant further argues that Ralphs
noticed Plaintiff’s deposition in advance of Plaintiff serving written
discovery and cites to Poeschl v. Superior Court of Ventura County
(1994) 229 Cal.App.2d 383, 386. Here, however, the issue is not the priority of
depositions, but the production of certain evidence before a deposition is
taken. In Rosemont v. Superior Court of Los Angeles (1964) 60 Cal.2d
709, 714 the Court noted that “[s]ince discovery proceedings can seldom if ever
be conducted simultaneously, it is inherent in such proceedings that the party
who secures discovery first may derive advantages by securing information from
his adversary before he is required to reciprocate by divulging information to
him.” However, the Court found that “plaintiff is not seeking merely the
advantages that would flow from the normal timing of discovery. He is seeking
the advantages that would flow from his being able to refresh his recollection
from the recordings before giving his deposition while denying to Turner and
the other parties to those conversations equal opportunity to refresh their
recollections before giving their depositions.” (Id. at 714-15.) The
Court affirmed the trial court’s order of production prior to deposition. In Poeschl,
cited by Defendant, the Court of Appeal issued a writ of mandate directing the
trial court to order that plaintiff produce recordings of conversations between
plaintiff and defendant before taking the deposition of the defendant. There, the
defendant’s deposition was noticed first. Defendant filed a motion for an order
that the plaintiff produce all recordings of conversations between them,
arguing that he should be entitled to refresh his recollection prior to taking
his deposition. (Poeschl, 229 Cal.App.2d at 384.) The trial court denied
the motion on the ground that the parties stipulated that his deposition
proceed first. The Court of Appeal reversed, concluding there was “no
justification for allowing the real party in interest to proceed with
petitioner’s deposition before the production of recordings of his
conversations or statements.” (Id. at 387.)
 
            Defendant’s only apparent objection
to actually producing the surveillance video it agreed to produce is that
Defendant should be permitted to depose Plaintiff first. The authorities cited
by Defendant do not support its position, as discussed above. Defendant’s
objection is therefore overruled and the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion to
compel production of the video.
 
            Regarding the remaining motions to
compel, the Court agrees with Defendant that none of the other issues were
raised at the IDC, and therefore the motions are procedurally defective. (See
Eighth Amended Standing Order for Procedures in the Personal Injury Hub Section
9E.)
 
Sanctions
 
Both
parties request monetary sanctions. The Court finds that Defendant acted with
substantial justification. Moreover, Plaintiff has not properly presented their
motion by neither filing a reply nor updating the motion since the IDC.
However, because the motion is currently pending, the Court cannot disregard
it. Although there does not appear to be a statutory basis to impose monetary
sanctions on Plaintiff, the Court strongly admonishes Plaintiff to properly
present Plaintiff’s motions going forward, rather than delay a deposition and
fail to present argument or legal authorities for the actual legal issue it is seeking
the Court to address.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            The Court grants Plaintiff’s motion
to compel production of the surveillance video agreed upon by Defendant and a
verified response to Request for Production of Documents, Set One, Number 3.
The video and response shall be served on Plaintiff within 15 days.
 
            Plaintiff shall give notice of the
Court’s ruling and file a proof of service of such.
 
 