 Case Number:  21STCV40774    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or adopt
the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 
If all parties do not submit on this tentative ruling, they should
arrange to appear in-person or remotely. 
Further, after the Court has posted/issued a
tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent authority to prohibit the
withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the tentative ruling as the order of
the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  6, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV40774




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Compliance with Deposition Subpoena




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Aiden Cole Berlinger and Jason
  Berlinger 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Non-Party
  11 Med Funding 



 
BACKGROUND
 
On November 5, 2021, Plaintiff
Walter Andrade (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against Defendants Aiden Cole
Berlinger and Jason Berlinger (Defendants) and Does 1 to 100 for damages
resulting from an alleged motor vehicle accident. Defendants assert that
Plaintiff claims he received $103,643.10 in medical treatment at the Calabasas
Surgery Center. Calabasas Surgery Center held a lien for Plaintiff’s treatment
and assigned the lien to “11 Med Funding” (Med). (Mendoza Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. C.)  Defendants subpoenaed Med’s person most
knowledgeable (PMK). Med objected to the subpoena due to ambiguity, relevance,
and trade secrets. 
 
On July 7, 2023, Defendants moved
to compel compliance with the subpoena under Code of Civil Procedure section
1987.1. Med opposes.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A party seeking discovery from a person who is not a party
to the action may obtain discovery by oral deposition, written deposition, or
deposition subpoena for production of business records.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2020.010.)¿ A deposition subpoena may command either: (1) only the attendance
and testimony of the deponent, (2) only the production of business records for
copying, or (3) the attendance and testimony of the deponent, as well as the
production of business records, other documents, electronically stored
information, and tangible things.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.)¿  
 
A service of a deposition subpoena shall be affected a
sufficient time in advance of the deposition to provide the deponent a
reasonable opportunity to locate and produce any designated documents and,
where personal attendance is commanded, a reasonable time to travel to the
place of deposition.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (a).)¿ Personal
service of any deposition subpoena is effective to require a deponent who is a
resident of California to: personally appear and testify, if the subpoena so
specifies; to produce any specified documents; and to appear at a court session
if the subpoena so specifies.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (c).)¿ A
deponent who disobeys a deposition subpoena may be punished for contempt
without the necessity of a prior order of the court directing compliance by the
witness.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.240.)¿A motion to compel compliance with a
deposition subpoena must be made within 60 days after completion of the
deposition record, the date objections are served, or the date specified for
production, and be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ.
Proc., §2025.480, subd., (b); Board of Registered Nursing v. Sup.Ct.
(Johnson & Johnson) (2021) 59 CA5th 1011, 1032-1033.) 
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1,
subdivision (a) states, “[i]f a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness
or the production of books, documents, or other things before a court, or at
the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court,
upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon
the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be
heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other
order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or
oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy
of the person.” 
  
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2,
subdivision (a) states, in relevant part, “. . . in making an order pursuant to
motion made . . . under Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award
the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the
motion, including reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was
made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification . . . .” 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
            Defendants state that on July 6, 2023
they discussed the legal and factual reasons for the objection to the subpoena
and were unable to reach an agreement. (Mendoza Decl. ¶ 12.) The Court finds
the meet and confer requirement has been satisfied. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
On May 3, 2023, Defendants
personally served the first deposition subpoena on Med. (Mendoza Decl. ¶ 7, Exh.
E.) Med requested that the deposition be continued to July 6, 2023. (Id. ¶ 8,
Exh. F.) Defendants complied and re-noticed the deposition accordingly. On June
20, 2023, Med objected to the deposition. As a result, this motion is timely.
 
Med
objected to examination numbers 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, and 15 with the
following: “Ambiguous. Irrelevant. Invasion of privileged trade secret.”
(Mendoza Decl., Exh. I.)
 
The following are matters on
examination which received objections: 
 
4. Circumstances surrounding negotiations for plaintiff
WALTER ANDRADE (D.O.B 11/4/1989) medical care/liens held by 11 MED FUNDING.
 
5. The amount paid by 11 MED FUNDING for all accounts
receivable for plaintiff WALTER ANDRADE (D.O.B 11/4/1989).
 
6. Factors used to determine the purchase price for all
liens held by 11 MED FUNDING for plaintiff WALTER ANDRADE (D.O.B 11/4/1989).
 
7. The average amount accepted as payment in full by 11 MED
FUNDING for the same or similar procedure or treatment as that provided to
plaintiff, WALTER ANDRADE (D.O.B 11/4/1989).
 
8. 11 MED FUNDING’s policies and procedures related to
collecting payments of liens on personal injury plaintiffs once the underlying
matter has resolved.
 
9. 11 MED FUNDING’s policies and procedures related to
collections of liens on personal injury plaintiffs.
 
10. Relationship between 11 MED FUNDING and plaintiff WALTER
ANDRADE (D.O.B 11/4/1989)’s medical providers.
 
11. Relationship between 11 MED FUNDING and plaintiff WALTER
ANDRADE (D.O.B 11/4/1989)’s attorneys.
 
13. MED FUNDING’s practices and procedures of accepting
payments for personal injury patients treated on a medical lien, including the
factoring of personal injury liens, payments to medical facilities for
purchasing personal injury liens, payments by attorneys after settlement or
final resolution of personal injury matters, settlements, pre-existing
agreements with medical providers and/or other factoring companies, and pre-negotiated
amounts for services rendered.
 
15. 11 MED FUNDING’s practices and procedures of creating a
fee schedule, and determining values for procedures or treatment. 
 
            As an
initial matter, the Court overrules Med’s objections regarding ambiguity. Med does
not address this objection in its opposition and appears to be able to
understand the nature of the requests.
 
Defendants primarily argue that the
above matters are relevant to the reasonable value of Plaintiff’s medical
services. Damages “for past medical expenses are limited to the lesser of (1) the amount
paid or incurred for past medical expenses and (2) the reasonable value of the
services.” (Bermudez v. Ciolek (2015) 237
Cal.App.4th 1311, 1337.) Uninsured plaintiffs, will usually require “a wide-ranging
inquiry into the reasonable value of medical services provided, because
uninsured plaintiffs will typically incur standard, nondiscounted charges
that will be challenged as unreasonable by defendants.” (Id. at 1330–1331.)
Therefore, “when a plaintiff is not insured, medical bills are relevant and
admissible to prove both the amount incurred and the reasonable value of
medical services provided.” (Pebley v. Santa Clara Organics,
LLC (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 1266, 1275.) 
 
In Moore v. Mercer (2016)
4 Cal.App.5th 424, 447-48 the Court found that the trial court had erroneously
concluded that the agreement between a doctor and a medical finance company was
irrelevant, because evidence surrounding the sale of the bills and liens to the
medical finance company did bear some probative value in determining the
reasonable value of the services, and the scope of a party’s right to discovery
information that might assist him in evaluating or preparing his case was
broad. Although the amount a third-party paid for a plaintiff’s medical lien
could be based on many irrelevant factors, the agreement could also reveal what
the doctor believed was the reasonable value of his services. (Id. at 443.)
 
Here, Defendant seeks to compel
information about Med’s internal processes and procedures as they relate to
Plaintiff (4, 5, 6), as they relate to Plaintiff’s other medical providers
(10), as they relate to Plaintiff’s attorneys (12), and as they relate to other
personal injury plaintiffs (7, 8, 9, 13, 15).
 
The Court concludes that the topics
relating to Plaintiff and the particular liens held relating to Plaintiff (4,
5, 6) are discoverable under the reasoning of Moore. However, as to the
topics relating to Plaintiff’s other medical providers, his attorneys, and
other personal injury plaintiffs, Defendants have not sufficiently established
why these categories are discoverable. Defendants broadly argue that they must
be able to investigate Med’s “involvement in lien and insurance cases” in order
to determine the reasonable value of Plaintiff’s charges. Moore
recognized that evidence of what a third party is willing to pay for a lien
depends on a wide variety of factors bearing no relevance to the reasonable
value of the services when rendered, but concluded that it could reveal what a
doctor believed was the reasonable value of his services, which the court
characterized as “minimal probative value.” (Moore, 4 Cal.App.5th at 445.)
Here, the Court concludes that evidence of what Med negotiates in other cases is
not discoverable under Defendants’ theory that it is relevant to the reasonable
value of Calabasas Surgery Center’s services to Plaintiff.
 
Med argues that while doctors must
make certain disclosures, the same is not true of medical funding companies.
(Opposition at pg. 3.) While the Court agrees that a deposition of Calabasas
Surgery Center and Plaintiff’s providers would be more fruitful, the Court
cannot find as a matter of law that Med’s negotiations with Plaintiff’s
providers would not lead to similar discovery, namely, as it relates to what
Plaintiff’s providers were willing to accept as indicating on some level the
reasonable value of the services.
 
Defendants also argue that if Med
is asserting a privilege based on a trade secret, then it has the burden to
establish the privilege first. (Motion, 8.)  The Court agrees and finds that Med has not
met its burden. Moreover, Med has not demonstrated why a protective order would
be insufficient to address its concerns.
 
Sanctions
 
Additionally, Defendants seek
monetary sanctions for $780.00 against Med. However, the Court finds that the
motion was brought and opposed with substantial justification and declines to
award sanctions. 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS in part the motion to compel compliance with
the deposition subpoena and DENIES sanctions.  
 
            Defendants shall give notice of the
Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.