 Case Number:  21STCV35176    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or adopt
the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 
If all parties do not submit on this tentative ruling, they should
arrange to appear in-person or remotely (which is highly encouraged).  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  

 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


October 6, 2023




CASE NUMBER


21STCV35176




MOTION


Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel




MOVING PARTY


Attorney Adina
  Ostoia and Kate Jamsheed




OPPOSING PARTY


None



 
MOTION
 
            Attorneys Adina Ostoia and Kate
Jamsheed (Counsel) move to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff Lon Derek
Carter (Plaintiff). 
 
ANALYSIS
 
            Counsel has
filed forms MC-051 and MC-052 and has lodged with the Court a copy of the
proposed order on form MC-053 as required. 
(Cal Rules of Court, rule 3.1362.) 
Counsel states the instant motion is filed for the following reasons: “There
has been a breakdown in attorney-client communication such that continued
representation is no longer feasible. We have been unable to have the client
sign the substitution of attorney.”  (MC-052.)  The Court finds that this is a valid reason
for the withdrawal.  (See Rules Prof.
Conduct, rule 1.16.)  
 
            Trial is
currently set for November 1, 2023, with a Final Status Conference date of
October 18, 2023. Although it appears that counsel was unable to reserve an
earlier motion hearing date, counsel did not seek to advance the hearing on the
motion to be relieved or continue the trial date.
 
            The Court
finds that permitting counsel to withdraw at this late stage would likely result
in prejudice to the rights of Plaintiff. Accordingly, the Court denies the
motion.
 
            Counsel
shall give notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.
 