 Case Number:  21STCV28000    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or adopt
the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 
If all parties do not submit on this tentative ruling, they should
arrange to appear in-person or remotely (which is highly encouraged).  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  

 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


October 6, 2023




CASE NUMBER


21STCV28000




MOTION


Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel




MOVING PARTY


Attorney Michael
  P. O’Sullivan




OPPOSING PARTY


None



 
MOTION
 
            Attorney Michael P. O’Sullivan (Counsel)
moves to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff Theresa Oshodi (Plaintiff). 
 
ANALYSIS
 
            Counsel has
filed forms MC-051 and MC-052 and has lodged with the Court a copy of the
proposed order on form MC-053 as required. 
(Cal Rules of Court, rule 3.1362.) 
Counsel states the instant motion is filed for the following reasons: “(1)
Conduct by the client renders it unreasonably difficult to carry out employment
effectively; (2) Clients’ continued lack of response to her attorney of record;
(3) Non-cooperation by client; and (4) The relationship of trust and confidence
essential to the attorney-client relationship has ceased to exist.”  (MC-052.) 

 
            However,
the Court finds that the proposed order (MC-053) is incomplete and contains
errors.  Consequently, the Court orders
Counsel to file within 5 calendar days of the hearing an amended form MC-053
which should include information about all future hearings and proceedings
noticed by any party, or ordered by the Court.
 
            Further,
Counsel must serve the signed order (MC-053) within 10 days of the date of the
order, and file a proof of service of such. 
Counsel will remain the attorney of record for Plaintiff until Counsel
files and serves the updated proposed order. 
(See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(e).) 
 
            Accordingly,
the Court conditionally GRANTS the motion pending Counsel’s filing and service
of the updated form.  Counsel shall
provide notice of the Court’s ruling.
 
 