  Case Number:  19STCV11970    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTIONS IN LIMINE
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 1
Plaintiffs seek to
exclude evidence of insurance coverage and payments and other collateral source
benefits.  Pursuant to the July 8, 2022
CMO, the motion is deemed made and granted. 
Defendants did not show good cause to depart from the order.  Therefore the motion is granted, except as to
evidence of insurance to establish the actual amount paid of any medical bill.
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 2
            Plaintiffs
move to exclude evidence that David Cargill had heart attacks and different
cancer as irrelevant and confusing. 
Defendants contend that their experts will opinion that Cargill’s other
health conditions caused his death. 
Defendants also argue that his medical condition is relevant to his life
expectancy and damages.  The evidence
could be relevant to life expectancy and damages.  Therefore, the motion is denied without prejudice
to objections at trial.
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 3
Plaintiffs moves to
exclude evidence that their family has a history of cancer as irrelevant and
speculative as to causation.  Plaintiffs
argues that some unidentified defense expert may try to offer evidence of a
family history of cancer to show another cause for Cargill’s illness.  Plaintiffs do not identify the expert or
specific expert testimony to be excluded. 
Therefore, this motion is too vague. 
If Defendants start asking questions at trial about the family’s history
of cancer, Plaintiffs should object at that time.
Further, pursuant to the
July 8, 2022 CMO, motions to exclude speculative evidence are deemed made and
denied.  
            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objection at trial.
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 4
Plaintiffs move to
exclude evidence or argument that asbestos was necessary to defeat enemies or
win a war.  This motion is vague and
overbroad.  Evidence of military uses of
asbestos may be relevant to knowledge and notice, and experts might rely on studies
that reference military use.
The motion is denied
without prejudice to objection at trial.
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 5
Plaintiffs move to
preclude comments made by Dr. Selikoff at a 1969 symposium about brake linings
not being a hazard as hearsay.  If
Defendants’ experts establish the comments were the type of material upon which
experts in the field reasonably rely, the comments may be admissible.
            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 6
Plaintiffs seek to
exclude any mention of genetics in connection with lung cancer because such
references are speculative and there is no evidence Cargill has the BAP1
genetic mutation.  This motion is too
vague.  Plaintiff does not identify any
particular document or expert testimony to be excluded.  Further, Plaintiffs cite no evidence
supporting the assertion that genetics have nothing to do with lung cancer.  Also, pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO,
motions to exclude speculative evidence are deemed made and denied.
            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 1
Defendant Union Carbide
moves to exclude evidence of its relationship with Dow Chemical.  This motion is too vague.  If at trial Plaintiffs ask questions about
Dow Chemical that are irrelevant, Defendant can object at that time.  The motion is denied without prejudice to
objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 2
Union Carbide moves to
exclude any reference to incidents where people died or were injured as a
result of Union Carbide’s chemicals other than asbestos.  Incidents not involving asbestos are
irrelevant, more prejudicial than probative, and would be unduly time
consuming.
            The
motion is granted.
Defendants’ Motion to Exclude Video and
EPA Document
Defendant O’Reilly Auto
Enterprises, LLC moves to exclude the Don’t Blow It video and any evidence
referring to the video as hearsay, unscientific, and prejudicial.  The video may be admissible at trial via an
expert if the expert establishes that it is general background information of
the type relied upon by experts in the field. 
The claim that the video is unscientific can be the subject of
cross-examination and goes to the weight to be given the video.  Defendant contends the EPA updated its
guidance in 2007 so the video is outdated. 
That too can be the subject of cross-examination.
Defendant argues the
video’s references to an article and wives and children lack foundation.  That section of the video is irrelevant
because there is no claim in this case about injury to wives and children.  If Plaintiffs establish that the video is
admissible, the portion of the video about the magazine article and wives and
children are to be redacted.
Defendant seeks to
exclude evidence of a 1986 document prepared by the EPA because it is
hearsay.  The contents of the document
may be admissible at trial via an expert if the expert establishes that it is
general background information of the type relied upon by experts in the
field.  That the document was based on
unscientific sources can be the subject of cross-examination and goes to the
weight to be given the document and whether an expert can establish it is the
type of information relied upon by experts.
Defendants’ Motion to Bifurcate
Defendants move to
bifurcate punitive damages.  The motion
is granted.
            The
motion is denied without prejudice to a contemporaneous objection at trial.
            The
moving party is to give notice.