  Case Number:  24TRCV00877    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
ANDREW
  LEE, 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV00877




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
AMERICAN
  HONDA MOTOR COMPANY, INC. et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          January 7, 2025
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant American Honda Motor Company, Inc., et al.
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Andrew Lee
Demurrer
to Second Amended Complaint
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED without
leave to amend.
The motion to strike is GRANTED.
BACKGROUND
On March
13, 2024, Plaintiff Lee filed a complaint against American Honda Motor Co.,
Inc. for (1) violation of Civil Code §1793.2(d), (2) violation of Civil Code
§1793.2(b), (3) violation of Civil Code §1793.2(a)(3), and (4) breach of
implied warranty of merchantability based on the purchase of a 2015 Honda
Odyssey.
On May
29, 2024, Plaintiff filed a FAC.  On
September 12, 2024, this court sustained a demurrer to the FAC and allowed Plaintiff
20 days leave to amend.  On October 2,
2024, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint.  This demurrer and motion to strike followed.
 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
 
When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.  Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of
Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228. “A demurrer tests the
pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.  Therefore, it lies only where the defects
appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” SKF Farms v. Superior
Court (1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant
American Honda demurs to each of the causes of action in the SAC on the ground that
they fail to allege sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action.
The SAC
alleges that on December 13, 2014, Plaintiff entered into a warranty contract
with Honda, regarding a 2015 Honda Odyssey. SAC, ¶6.  The warranty contract contained various warranties,
including bumper-bumper, powertrain, and emission.  The warranty contract is attached as Exhibit A
to the SAC. Id., ¶7.  Defects and
nonconformities to warranty manifested themselves within the applicable express
warranty period, including transmission defects, engine defects, and electrical
defects. Id., ¶11.  Defendant has failed
to either promptly replace the subject vehicle or to promptly make restitution
in accordance with the Song-Beverly Act. Id., ¶15.
The SAC
also alleges that on July 19, 2018, with 24,662 miles, Plaintiff presented the
vehicle to defendant’s authorized repair facility with various concerns,
including the transmission, engine, and/or electrical concerns having harsh,
rough upshifting and downshifting with a noise when accelerating and
decelerating.  The authorized repair
facility performed warranty repairs and represented to Plaintiff that the
vehicle had been repaired.  Id., ¶22.  On September 10, 2018, with 25,493 miles, Plaintiff
presented the vehicle to an authorized repair facility with various concerns,
including transmission and/or engine concerns when accelerating, the
transmission bangs into gear, has a harsh shift, and jerks.  The repair facility performed repairs and
represented to Plaintiff that the vehicle had been repaired.  Id., ¶23.  On October 25, 2018, with 25,760 miles, Plaintiff
presented the vehicle to an authorized repair facility with transmission and/or
engine concerns while driving on city streets the transmission bangs into gear
and jerks.  The repair facility performed
warranty repairs and represented to Plaintiff that the vehicle had been repaired.
 Id., ¶24.  On November 15, 2018, with 25,803 miles, Plaintiff
presented the vehicle to an authorized repair facility with transmission and/or
engine concerns while driving 25-30 mph and decelerating, and vehicle bangs.  The repair facility performed warranty repairs
and represented to Plaintiff that the vehicle had been repaired.  Id., ¶25.  Thereafter, Plaintiff continued to experience
symptoms of the defects despite defendant’s representation that the defects
were repaired. Id., ¶26.
The SAC
further alleges that to the extent there are any statutes of limitations
applicable to Plaintiff’s claims, the running of the limitations periods have
been tolled by the following doctrines or rules: equitable tolling, the
discovery rule, the fraudulent concealment rule, equitable estoppel, the repair
doctrine, and/or class action tolling.  Id.,
¶29.  The SAC contains erroneously
numbered second paragraphs 29 and 30, stating that Plaintiff’s claims were
tolled by the filing of the class action in Dennis MacDougal, et al. v.
American Honda Motor Co., Inc, et al. (United States District Court for the
Central District of California, Case No. 8:17-cv-1079-JGB-DFM) on June 21,
2017.  The MacDougal class action
covers the Subject Vehicle (ie. 2015 Honda Odyssey) and nearly identical
complaints regarding the Vehicle’s transmission (ie. violent jerking, hesitation,
hard down shifting when decelerating). 
The SAC also states that Plaintiff had no way of knowing of Defendant’s
deception until the defects manifested themselves and Defendant was unable to
repair after a reasonable number of repair attempts.  SAC ¶32.  The SAC also states that the time the vehicle
was being repaired tolled the statute of limitations, as did the Judicial
Counsel’s Emergency Rules Related to the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020.  Id., ¶39.
Statute of Limitations
Defendant
again argues that the first, second, and third causes of action are barred by
the four-year statute of limitations under Commercial Code §2725(2) and the
cause of action accrues when the breach occurs, regardless of the “aggrieved
party’s lack of knowledge of the breach” and that the “breach’ occurs “when
tender of delivery” is made, which was December 13, 2014.  See SAC, ¶6.  Defendant further argues that Plaintiff does
not allege facts regarding the time and manner of discovery or the reason why Plaintiff
could not have discovered the alleged defects with due diligence.  Defendant asserts that of the four repair
visits “vaguely described,” all occurring after the majority of the appliable
warranty periods expired.  As to the
fourth cause of action, defendant argues that the implied warranty period
expires after one year from date of tender of delivery, which in this case occurred
no later than December 13, 2015.  Defendant contends that unless Plaintiff
pleads factually a sufficient tolling theory, Plaintiff’s breach of implied
warranty claim expired at the latest on December 13, 2019.  Defendant argues that Plaintiff has not
alleged a sufficient factual basis for Plaintiff’s tolling theory.
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that the SAC does not affirmatively show a statute
of limitations defense.  (Opp. p. 2.)  Plaintiff disputes that the first through
third causes of action accrued and ran from the date of sale of the vehicle;
rather they arose when the issues related to the engine, transmission, and/or
electrical system continued to manifest, which was shortly before Plaintiff
filed the complaint.  As to the fourth
cause of action, Plaintiff argues that the defects were latent and thus the
statute of limitations runs at discovery and not at tender.
The Court
finds that the first, second, and third causes of action are barred by the four-year
statute of limitations and that the fourth cause of action is barred by the
one-year statute of limitations.  Civil
Code §1791.1(c) extends that time in which an implied warranty exists to be
breached by no more than one year beyond the date of sale. Comm.  Code §2725(2) states: “A cause of action
accrues when the breach occurs, regardless of the aggrieved party’s lack of
knowledge of the breach.  A breach of
warranty occurs when tender of delivery is made, except that where a warranty
explicitly extends to future performance of the goods and discovery of the
breach must await the time of such performance the cause of action accrues when
the breach is or should have been discovered.”
Plaintiff
alleges that the sale occurred on December 13, 2014.  The claims must have accrued on or before
December 13, 2015, and the four-year statute of limitations under Comm. Code
§2725 expired no later than December 13, 2018.  The complaint was filed on March 13, 2024.  Plaintiff alleges that he did not know of the
alleged breach until shortly before filing the lawsuit in 2024.  This allegation is conclusory and contrary to
the allegations of the SAC about the defendants failure to repair the claimed
problems.  Plaintiff knew of the claimed problems
with the vehicle when they were observed by Plaintiff, alleged to be in 2018.  The Plaintiff knew shortly after the vehicle
was returned after service that the repairs had failed.  (If the repairs had solved the problem and Plaintiff
did not learn that they had not been solved until 2024, it is difficult to
understand the basis for the suit.  Were
the problems solved for 6 years after repair?) 
Conclusory allegations about not figuring out that the repairs had not
solved the problem until years after the repairs were performed are mere
conclusory statements devoid of meaning in the context of a claim that the
defendant failed to repair the problems observed in 2018.
The allegations
are conclusory as to tolling and/or estoppel. 
Plaintiff’s new paragraphs regarding the MacDougal class action
lawsuit and COVID-19 are also conclusory, lacking any facts or specifics as to
how this SAC is affected by the possible filing of a federal class action.  Furthermore, the COVID-19 emergency rules were
in effect during the year 2020, well outside the statutes of limitations in
this case and Plaintiff pleads no relevant facts in relation to the emergency
rules, as the original complaint was filed in 2024.
First cause of
action for violation of Civil Code §1793.2(d)
Civil
Code §1793.2(d) states, “Except as provided in paragraph (2), if the
manufacturer or its representative in this state does not service or repair the
goods to conform to the applicable express warranties after a reasonable number
of attempts, the manufacturer shall either replace the goods or reimburse the
buyer in an amount equal to the purchase price paid by the buyer, less that
amount directly attributable to use by the buyer prior to the discovery of the
nonconformity.”
The SAC
alleges defendant and its representatives in this state have been unable to
service or repair the vehicle to conform to the applicable express warranties
after a reasonable number of opportunities.  Despite this fact, defendant failed to
promptly replace the vehicle or make restitution to Plaintiffs as required by
Civil Code §1793.2(d) and Civil Code §1793.1(a)(2). SAC, ¶42.
Defendant
argues that the SAC still identifies only four repair attempts commencing
almost four years after Plaintiff purchased the vehicle, and Plaintiff does not
identify the specific express warranty that was not conformed with, or any
other defects pertaining to the vehicle, or any other repair attempts.  Plaintiff does not address Defendant’s
arguments in his opposition.
The Court
finds that the allegations are insufficient that the vehicle was not conformed
to the “applicable express warranties after a reasonable number of
opportunities.”  Rather, the allegations
are conclusory and vague.  “Simply
parroting the language of [a statute] in the complaint is insufficient to state
a cause of action under the statute.” Hawkins v. TACA Internat. Airlines,
S.A. (2014) 223 Cal. App. 4th 466, 478.  “[S]tatutory causes of action must be pleaded with
particularity.” Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th
771, 790.
 
As Plaintiff
has had ample time and two previous opportunities to amend his complaint, the
demurrer to the first cause of action is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
Second cause of
action for violation of Civil Code §1793.2(b)
Under
Civil Code §1793.2(b), “[w]here those service and repair facilities are
maintained in this state and service or repair of the goods is necessary
because they do not conform with the applicable express warranties, service and
repair shall be commenced within a reasonable time by the manufacturer or its
representative in this state.  Unless the
buyer agrees in writing to the contrary, the goods shall be serviced or
repaired so as to conform to the applicable warranties within 30 days.  Delay caused by conditions beyond the control
of the manufacturer or its representatives shall serve to extend this 30-day
requirement.  Where delay arises,
conforming goods shall be tendered as soon as possible following termination of
the condition giving rise to the delay.”
The SAC
again alleges that although Plaintiff presented the vehicle to defendant’s
representative in this state, defendant and its representative failed to
commence the service or repairs within a reasonable time and failed to service or repair the
vehicle to conform to the applicable warranties within 30 days, in violation of
Civil Code §1793.2(b).  Plaintiff did not
extend the time for completion of repairs beyond the 30-day requirement. SAC,
¶48.
Defendant
argues that the allegations are insufficient because the SAC still identifies
only four repair attempts with the first commencing almost four years after Plaintiff
purchased the vehicle and fails to identify the number of days it took to
repair the vehicle at that visit or any other repair visit.  Defendant contends that Plaintiff does not
identify the specific express warranty that was not conformed within thirty
days and the number of days the vehicle was under repair.  Plaintiff does not address Defendant’s
argument in his opposition.
The time
that the vehicle was in the possession of the authorized repair facility is known
to Plaintiff.  Plaintiff has chosen to
not allege factually the basis for the claim that the repairs were not
performed within a reasonable time or within 30 days.
The Court
finds that the allegations are insufficient to show that defendant “failed to
commence the service or repairs within a reasonable time and failed to service
the vehicle to conform to the applicable warranties within 30 days.”  Further, the allegations are conclusory and
not plead with the required specificity.
As Plaintiff
has had ample time and two previous opportunities to amend his complaint, the
demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
Third cause of
action for violation of Civil Code §1793.2(a)(2)
Under Civil
Code §1793.2(a)(2), “[e]very manufacturer of consumer goods sold in this state
and for which the manufacturer has made an express warranty shall:  In the event of a failure to comply with
paragraph (1) of this subdivision, be subject to Section 1793.5.”  The SAC alleges that in violation of Civil
Code §1793.2(a)(3), defendant failed to make available to its authorized
service and repair facilities sufficient service literature and replacement
parts to effect repairs during the express warranty period.  Plaintiff has been damaged by defendant’s
failure to comply with its obligations pursuant to Civil Code §1793.2(a)(3),
and therefore brings this cause of action pursuant to Civil Code §1794. SAC, ¶53.  Defendant argues that the allegations are
insufficient because the SAC fails add any new facts and still fails to
identify the authorized service and repair facilities that did not have
sufficient service literature and replacement parts, the express warranty
applicable to this cause of action, what alleged defect was not addressed by
defendant’s authorized repair facilities to necessitate further service literature
and replacement parts, or what service literature and replacement parts were
necessary so as to repair the alleged nonconformities with the subject vehicle
and that were not provided by or to Honda’s authorized repair facility that was
visited by Plaintiffs.  Plaintiff does
not address Defendant’s argument in his opposition.
The Court
finds that the allegations remain insufficient as they are conclusory and not
plead with the required specificity for the reasons argued by defendant,
including identifying the service and repair facilities, the applicable express
warranty, what service literature and/or replacement parts were necessary.
As Plaintiff
has had ample time and two previous opportunities to amend his complaint, the
demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
Fourth cause of
action for breach of implied warranty of merchantability
The SAC
alleges that at the time of sale, the subject vehicle contained one or more
latent defect(s) set forth above.  The
existence of the said defect(s) constitutes a breach of the implied warranty
because the vehicle (1) does not pass without objection in the trade under the
contract description, (2) is not fit for the ordinary purposes for which such
goods are used, (3) is not adequately contained, packaged, and labelled, and
(4) does not conform to the promises or affirmations of fact made on the
container or label. SAC, ¶58.
Defendant
argues that the SAC fails to plead specific facts to support the allegation
that the vehicle was not merchantable, as defined under Civil Code §1792.1, at
the time of purchase or within one year thereafter. Rather the SAC identifies
only four repair attempts, none of which occurred during the implied warranty
period.  Plaintiff does not address
Defendant’s arguments in his opposition.
The Court
finds that the allegations are insufficient.  They are conclusory and not plead with the required
specificity.
As Plaintiff
has had ample time and two previous opportunities to amend his complaint, the demurrer
is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
ORDER
The
demurrer as to all four counts is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
MOTION
TO STRIKE
The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).)  The court may also strike all or any part of
any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 436(b).)  The grounds for a
motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper
matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.)  The grounds for moving to strike must appear
on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., §
437.)
 
Here,
Defendant requests that this court strike the following from the SAC:
 
·        
Page
5, lines 4-5: “Plaintiff discovered Defendant’s wrongful conduct alleged herein
in or about April, 2020…”
·        
Page
5, lines 16-18: “by the filing of Dennis MacDougal, et al. v. American Honda
Motor Co., Inc, et al. (United States District Court for the Central
District of California, Case No. 8:17-cv-1079-JGB-DFM) on June 21, 2017.”
·        
Page
6, lines 7-13: “Plaintiff’s claims here were tolled by the filing of the class
action in Dennis MacDougal, et al. v. American Honda
Motor Co., Inc, et al. (United
States District Court for the Central District of California, Case No.
8:17-cv-1079-JGB-DFM) on June 21, 2017. The MacDougal class
action covers the Subject Vehicle (ie. 2015 Honda Odyssey) and nearly identical
complaints regarding the Vehicle’s transmission (ie. violent jerking,
hesitation, hard down shifting when decelerating).
·                    
Separately,
Plaintiff’s claims were tolled by Judicial Council of California, Appendix I,
Emergency Rules Related to COVID-19. (Cal. Rules of Court, App’x. I,
(https://www.courts.ca.gov/documents/appendix-i.pdf) [as of Aug. 1, 2023].)
This allows for tolling of the statute of limitations from April 6, 2020, until
October 1, 2020 (which amounts to 178 days).
In
his opposition, Plaintiff states that Plaintiff’s discovery date of Defendant’s
wrongful conduct is consistent with his prior pleadings and contrary to
Defendant’s assertions that Plaintiff inserted false and/or contradictory
information.  Plaintiff does not address Defendant’s
arguments regarding the rest of the SAC.
As
to the first requested portion to strike, Plaintiff alleged in paragraph 28 of
the SAC, “Plaintiff discovered Defendant’s wrongful conduct alleged herein in
or about April, 2020, after the Subject Vehicle continued to intermittently
exhibit symptoms of the alleged defects …” 
However, in paragraph 35, Plaintiff states he did not discover, “facts
that would have caused a reasonable person to suspect that Defendants had concealed
information,” until “shortly prior to the filing of this Complaint.”  Defendant requests that this be stricken from
the SAC as “false, improper and are not alleged in conformity with this Court’s
Order.”  (Motion, p.3.)  Here, it appears that the new addition to the
SAC is false in comparison to Plaintiff’s previously alleged facts, and the
motion to strike is therefore GRANTED.
The
second and third requests to strike are related to Plaintiff’s conclusory allegations
that this matter was tolled by the filing of a federal lawsuit, MacDougal,
et al. v. American Honda Motor Co., Inc, et al. (United States District
Court for the Central District of California, Case No. 8:17-cv-1079-JGB-DFM) on
June 21, 2017.  It is not sufficient to simply
reference the class action without factually pleading the basis for the class
actions claims and the basis for the claim that the class action has raised the
claims that are now made by Plaintiff.  Plaintiff
cites no legal authority for this proposition or any additional facts in
support of it.  The court GRANTS the
motion to strike these two portions of the SAC as irrelevant.
Additionally,
as to the final request to strike related to Plaintiff’s inclusion of the Judicial
Council of California’s Emergency Rules Related to COVID-19, this Court also
finds that Plaintiff has not included any information as to how this
information is specifically relevant to this proceeding.  The motion to strike this portion of the SAC
is similarly GRANTED as it is irrelevant.
 
ORDER
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND.
The
motion to strike is GRANTED in its entirety.
Defendant
is ordered to give notice of ruling.