 Case Number:  24TRCV02269    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  B ADAM GARASAD v. LINDA VEERKAMP, Case
No. 24TRCV02269
Motion for Reconsideration
This
unlawful detainer action was commenced by Plaintiff Adam Garasad, the buyer of
real property at a foreclosure sale.  He
sought to evict former owner Defendant Linda Veerkamp.  (See Code of Civil Procedure §
1161a.)  Plaintiff brought a motion for
summary judgment which was heard and granted on November 26, 2024.  On November 26, 2024 the Court signed the
Order and the Judgment, both of which had been lodged and served on Defendant’s
counsel on November 5, 2024 at the same time as the Motion was served.  Plaintiff served Notice of Entry of Order and
Judgment on December 2, 2024.
 
Defendant
asks that the Court to reconsider the grant of the Motion for Summary Judgment
under Code of Civil Procedure § 1008.
“(a)
When an application for an order has been made to a judge, [and] granted, ...
any party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the
party of written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or
different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge
... to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order.  The party making the application shall state
... what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.
*
* *
(d)
A violation of this section may be punished as a contempt and with sanctions as
allowed by Section 128.7.  * * *
(e)
This section specifies the court’s jurisdiction with regard to applications for
reconsideration of its orders and renewals of previous motions, and applies to
all applications to reconsider any order of a judge or court, or for the
renewal of a previous motion, whether the order deciding the previous matter or
motion is interim or final.  No
application to reconsider any order or for the renewal of a previous motion may
be considered by any judge or court unless made according to this section.
*
* *  ”
The
Claimed Grounds for Reconsideration
Defendant
claims that she is entitled to have this Court reconsider the ruling and
Judgment on a number of grounds.  She
states that there are new facts.
“1.  Plaintiff has admitted that he lacks
standing, as he did not bid on or purchase the property at the foreclosure
auction.”
“2.  Plaintiff’s counsel has engaged in egregious
acts of misconduct by intentionally furnishing false Orders to the Court for
signature, which intentionally misrepresent that defense counsel did not appear
for the hearing.”
“3.  New facts and circumstances establish that
the foreclosure sale is void due to procedural irregularities, violations of
the Homeowner Bill of Rights (HBOR), and statutory requirements under Civil
Code §§ 2923.5 and 2924.”
“4.  Plaintiff’s counsel failed to provide notice
of the proposed order, depriving Defendant of her opportunity to review and
object, violating procedural fairness under California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1312(a).”
“5.  Two Plaintiffs prepared declarations under
oath and each one stated that he was the correct bidder at the Trustee Sale of
May 7th.  Four months after the sale a
third person claimed that he was the highest bidder.”
“6.  The Plaintiff lost her status as a bona fide
purchaser for value by the deceptive identifications which included bidding by
a proxy.  In addition, the defendant was
enjoying a stay of eviction in a bankruptcy case when the plaintiff falsely
claimed that the Trustee sale occurred on May 9, 2024. This was eventually
proved to be false and the defendant has not recovered.”  (Motion pg. 2:7-3:6.)
 
Plaintiff
contends, among other things, that the Court lacks the jurisdiction to grant a
motion for reconsideration under Code of Civil Procedure § 1008 as the entry of
the judgment deprives the Court of that power, citing Rochin v. Pat Johnson
Manufacturing Co. (1998)
67 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1237 and APRI Ins.
Co. v. Sup. Ct. (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 176, 181.
 
The Court Lacks the Power to Grant this
Reconsideration Motion
“The
general rule is that once a judgment has been entered, the trial court loses
its unrestricted power to change that judgment. 
The court does retain power to correct clerical errors in a judgment
which has been entered.  However, it may
not amend such a judgment to substantially modify it or materially alter the
rights of the parties under its authority to correct clerical error.  [Citations.] 
This general rule is applicable even though time for appeal from the
judgment has not yet passed. [Citation.] [¶] Once judgment has been entered,
the trial court does retain jurisdiction for a limited period of time to
entertain and grant a motion for a new trial ([Code Civ. Proc.,] § 655 et seq.)
or a motion for a judgment notwithstanding the verdict.  ([Code Civ. Proc.,] §
629.)  The court also retains
jurisdiction to consider and grant a motion to vacate a judgment and enter a
different judgment for either of two reasons: an incorrect or erroneous legal
basis for the decision, not consistent with or supported by the facts, or a
judgment not consistent with or not supported by the special verdict.  ([Code Civ. Proc.,] §§ 663, 663a.)  The court also retains jurisdiction to
entertain and grant a motion for relief from a judgment taken against a party
through mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. ([Code Civ.
Proc.,] § 473.)”  (Craven v. Crout
(1985) 163 Cal.App.3d 779, 782-783, 209 Cal.Rptr. 649; see also 7 Witkin, Cal.
Procedure (4th ed. 1997) Judgment, § 67, pp. 594-595.)”  Rochin v. Pat Johnson Manufacturing Co.
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1237.
The
Judgment was entered November 26, 2024 and Notice of Entry was given by
Plaintiff on December 2, 2024. 
Reconsideration under Code of Civil Procedure § 1008 is therefore
not an option.
 
Even
if Reconsideration were Proper, the Court Would Not Grant a Reconsideration
Even
if the Court were authorized to reconsider its ruling, it would not do so.  Defendant has not demonstrated any valid
basis for a reconsideration.  Most of
what is put forth was articulated by Defendant at the summary judgment
hearing.  The “new facts” are not new at
all.  They were known and appreciated by
Defendant and the Court.  Other grounds
stated by Defendant bear no logical relationship to the basis for the motion
for summary judgment and do not justify a reconsideration of that motion.
The
Court shall briefly address the grounds articulated by Defendant.
“1.  Plaintiff has admitted that he lacks
standing, as he did not bid on or purchase the property at the foreclosure
auction.”
This
is not a “new fact.”  Defendant’s own
materials show that it was a “fact” known to Defendant months prior to the
hearing and argued by Defendant at the hearing. 
Defendant’s counsel referenced the issue in his September 5, 2024
letter.  (Def. Ex. 2; Def. Counsel letter
9/5/24.)  Plaintiff’s counsel informed
Defendant’s counsel:
“First,
I did not make any representation to you that there was a “mistake” in the
identification of the bidder at the May 9, 2024, Trustee’s sale, nor did I
state that Sam Ostayan was the purchaser of the property.  Likewise, I did not state that the Trustee’s
Deed of Sale, the Grant Deed and the relevant declarations should reflect any
change at all.
Instead,
I explained to you that Mr. Ostayan, who is Adam Garasad’s uncle, attended the
auction to bid for Mr. Garasad as he placed the bid on Mr. Garasad’s
behalf.”  (Def. Ex. 2; Plaintiff’s
counsel’s letter of 9/4/24.)
Further,
Defendant’s assertion that Plaintiff “admitted” that he lacked standing is a
fabrication.  Plaintiff presented
evidence that he purchased the real property at foreclosure though his agent,
his uncle.  The assertion that this was
improper was argued by Defendant at the summary judgment hearing.
“2.  Plaintiff’s counsel has engaged in egregious
acts of misconduct by intentionally furnishing false Orders to the Court for
signature, which intentionally misrepresent that defense counsel did not appear
for the hearing.”
Counsel
should be careful when counsel makes such accusations.  The proposed order was SERVED ON DEFENSE
COUNSEL and lodged on November 5, 2024, three weeks prior to the hearing.  Additionally, Defendant fails to state any
reason that the “misrepresent[ation] that defense counsel did not appear for
the hearing” would justify a reconsideration of the motion.  The Court is mystified why counsel believes
that this “fact” would justify the requested relief.
“3.  New facts and circumstances establish that
the foreclosure sale is void due to procedural irregularities, violations of
the Homeowner Bill of Rights (HBOR), and statutory requirements under Civil
Code §§ 2923.5 and 2924.”
Facts
relating to the foreclosure sale are not “new facts” that could not have been
known and presented as part of Defendant’s Opposition to the Motion for Summary
Judgment.  On the contrary, to the extent
that any of the underlying foreclosure facts might be relevant, they could have
been presented to the Court.  Defendant
does not actually demonstrate that there were any infirmities  (The Court notes that Defendant has provided
no analysis of the legal relevance of any of the claimed foreclosure
facts.  The Memorandum of Points and
Authorities is devoid of proper analysis of the claimed significance of the
claimed defects in the foreclosure process. 
Generally, the issues surrounding the foreclosure process itself are not
legally relevant in the eviction proceeding.)
“4.  Plaintiff’s counsel failed to provide notice
of the proposed order, depriving Defendant of her opportunity to review and
object, violating procedural fairness under California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1312(a).”
This
is false and is addressed already on issue 2 above.  The proposed order and judgment were served
on Defendant’s counsel 3 weeks prior to the hearing.  Defendant articulates no justification for
claiming that this “fact” would support a reconsideration of the motion.  Further, Defendant provides no explanation as
to how Defendant was prejudiced by this claimed “fact.”  To this day Defendant has articulated no
objection to the form of Order nor does Defendant state what, if anything, is
wrong with the Order.
“5.  Two Plaintiffs prepared declarations under
oath and each one stated that he was the correct bidder at the Trustee Sale of
May 7th.  Four months after the sale a
third person claimed that he was the highest bidder.”
This
is not a “new fact.”  Nor is it a correct
statement.  There is only one Plaintiff,
Adam Garasad.  The argument was made by
Defendant at the hearing.
“6.  The Plaintiff lost her status as a bona fide
purchaser for value by the deceptive identifications which included bidding by
a proxy.  In addition, the defendant was
enjoying a stay of eviction in a bankruptcy case when the plaintiff falsely
claimed that the Trustee sale occurred on May 9, 2024. This was eventually
proved to be false and the defendant has not recovered.”
This
is essentially another articulation of Defendant’s argument regarding the
“multiple buyers” that was made at the hearing on the motion and is repeated
above.  Defendant knew long before the
hearing on the motion for summary judgment that Plaintiff’s uncle had bid for
the property on Plaintiff’s behalf. 
Defendant provides no authority for her proposition that this “fact”
causes Plaintiff to not be a bona fide purchaser.  This is not a ground for reconsideration.
Thus,
Defendant has presented no basis for the Court to reconsider its prior
ruling.  The request to reconsider is
DENIED.
 
Sanctions
Plaintiff
has argued that the Motion for Reconsideration is so devoid of merit such that
sanctions in the amount of $3,045 should be awarded against Defendant and her
counsel.
“The Court should
sanction Defendant and her counsel monetarily for bringing this frivolous
motion, which is unsupported by the law and which fails to include any
evidentiary support even were it not precluded as a matter of law.  Defendant and her counsel have caused
Plaintiff to incur additional fees and costs that it should not have been
required to expend, and the Court should award Plaintiff its reasonable
attorneys’ fees.”  (Opposition pg.
2:18-23.)
“Defendant’s and her
counsel’s misuse of this statute subject them to monetary sanctions. To “deter
parties from filing noncompliant renewed applications, the Legislature provided
that “‘[a] violation of this section may be punished as a contempt and with
sanctions as allowed by Section 128.7.’” (Even Zohar Construction & Remodeling, Inc., supra, 61 Cal.4th
at 840.)”  (Opposition pg. 7:11-15.)
The
Court is troubled by the filing of the Motion for Reconsideration.  It raises no new facts that could not have
been presented at the time of the hearing on the motion for summary judgment.  On the contrary, it is a mere rehashing of
the Defendant’s arguments previously stated at the hearing.  It includes claims that do not bear on the
summary judgment motion, such as the “service” of the proposed order.  It states claimed problems and fails to
support any of the claims with evidence or proper legal analysis and
authority.  In short, it does not meet
the requirements for a reconsideration motion. 
The Court agrees that sanctions are appropriate.  The motion abused the Plaintiff and the
Court.
The
Court finds that the requested amount of time and hourly rate claimed by
Plaintiff’s counsel is reasonable.  The
claimed attorneys fees of $3,045 is appropriate.
The
Court GRANTS the Plaintiff’s request for sanctions and orders both Defendant
Linda Veerkamp and her attorney, Steven W. O’Reilly, State Bar Number 141741,
to pay to counsel for Plaintiff the sum of $3,045 within 60 days of the date of
service of this Order upon counsel for Defendant.
 
ORDER:
1.  The Motion for Reconsideration is DENIED both
on procedural and substantive grounds.
2.  Sanctions are awarded to Plaintiff.  Defendant Linda Veerkamp and her attorney,
Steven W. O’Reilly, State Bar Number 141741, shall pay to counsel for Plaintiff
the sum of $3,045 within 60 days of the date of service of this Order upon
counsel for Defendant.