 On March 10, 2022, a default was entered against Defendant Lalanika Narasinha Arachchige.Defendant Arachchige now seeks to set her default aside under Code Civ. Proc. §§  473(b), (d), 473.5.  Defendant contends that “default entered in this case is void on its face because Plaintiff failed to serve Ms. Arachchige with a statement of damages prior to taking her default, as required by Code of Civil Procedure section 425.11 in a personal injury action. Moreover, Plaintiff's attempt at substituted service of the summons and complaint was defective, as the papers were allegedly left with an unidentified individual at an apartment complex with no unit number specified. This was not reasonably calculated to provide actual notice to Ms. Arachchige, who in fact did not receive the papers or learn of this lawsuit until well after the default had been entered.”  Defense counsel also claims his neglect caused the default.The mandatory provision of Code Civ. Proc. § 473(b) provides in relevant part, “Notwithstanding any other requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. The court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an attorney's affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties.”“[A]n attorney affidavit of fault under the mandatory relief provisions of section 473, subdivision (b) need not include an explanation of the reasons for the attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.”  (Martin Potts & Assocs., Inc. v. Corsair, LLC (2016) 244 Cal. App. 4th 432, 443.)  Moreover, under this mandatory provision “it does not matter whether [counsel’s] neglect was excusable or inexcusable.”  (Ibid.) “If no default judgment has been entered, there appears to be no time limit on a motion for relief based on an attorney affidavit of fault.”  (Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch. 5-G.)“In the absence of a prior warning of default, courts are inclined to grant CCP § 473(b) motions to set aside defaults. [Citations.]”  (Fasuyi v. Permatex, Inc. (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 681, 702.)Here, defense counsel indicates that, despite the fact that the parties were attempting to resolve this matter, Plaintiff’s counsel entered a default against Defendant without warning.  At the very least, it is apparent that defense counsel was not aware for some time that a default was entered against Arachchige in March 2022.  Plaintiff’s counsel does not deny that there were communications between the parties and that there was no warning that a default would be entered.  Given that an attorney affidavit of mistake or negligence based on lack of notice was filed, relief is warranted under the mandatory provision of Code Civ. Proc. § 473(b).Llanos argues that counsel was not diligent and could easily have checked the docket to see that there was a default.  LLanos, however, ignores that “the mandatory provisions . . . do not require a showing that the attorney's neglect was excusable nor a showing of diligence short of the six-month time limit [relating to default judgments].”  (Metropolitan Service Corp. v. Casa de Palms, Ltd. (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 1481, 1488; see also Milton v. Perceptual Develop. Corp. (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 861, 868; Younessi v. Woolf (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 1137, 1147; Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch. 5-G.)As to service, “[a]lthough the defendant is the moving party, the plaintiff must carry the initial burden of demonstrating facts by a preponderance of evidence justifying the exercise of jurisdiction in California.”  (In re Automobile Antitrust Cases I and II (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 100, 110.) The Court finds that Plaintiff failed to establish proper substituted service by a preponderance of evidence.  The proof of service indicates that the place of service was an apartment complex with units ranging from 101 to 284.  However, it does not indicate the unit number at which service was rendered.  Even now, no such evidence was provided.  Additionally, the proof of service indicates that an african american male named Andrew was served as a co-occupant, but Arachchige indicates that she and her husband are Sri Lankan and that she doesn’t know any co-occupants named Andrew.  In sum, the Motion is granted.  The Court declines to award fees/costs.  Plaintiff can reattempt service.Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 