 Plaintiff Blanca Leyva seeks for the Court to determine that the settlement between Defendant LA Live Rentals LLC and all other Plaintiffs was made in good faith pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. § 877.6.  The settlement primarily requires that Defendant tender $227,599 to the Plaintiffs.  The allocation amongst the Plaintiffs can be viewed on page 11 of the moving papers.  Because no oppositions were filed, the Motions may be granted without consideration of the Tech-Bilt factors and on the basis of setting forth the ground for good faith determination and a brief background of the case.  (See City of Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261 [“[W]e . . . conclude that only when the good faith nature of a settlement is disputed, it is incumbent upon the trial court to consider and weigh the Tech-Bilt factors. That is to say, when no one objects, the barebones motion which sets forth the ground of good faith, accompanied by a declaration which sets forth a brief background of the case is sufficient.”)  Plaintiffs claim damages from defective conditions at their apartments owned by Defendant.  “It has become apparent from the evidence that even though the Defendant was issued citations by the public authorities due to the presence of defects in the leased apartments, Defendant offered proof that they had made repairs to both units in response to the citations. Furthermore, Defendant contends that the property discarded were aged and the value claimed did not have any evidentiary support or receipts. Also, there were doubts about whether plaintiffs could prove that the personal injuries that they claimed were caused by the condition of the apartments.”Under the circumstances, the Court cannot find that “the settlement is so far ‘out of the ballpark’ in relation to [the Tech-Bilt] factors as to be inconsistent with the equitable objectives of the statute.”  (Tech-Bilt, Inc., supra, 38 Cal.3d at pp. 499–500.)  Accordingly, the Court finds that the settlement was made in good faith.  The Motion is granted.Moving parties to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 