  Case Number:  22STCV39957    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles




 
Rodolfo Garcia-Rosas, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case 
No.:
 


 
22STCV39957




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




 
Architectural Surfaces, Inc., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: October 10, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for Trial Preference
Moving Party: Plaintiffs Rodolfo Garcia-Rosas and
Alma Delia Llamas 
Responding Party: Defendants Costco Wholesale
Corporation, Lowe’s Home Centers LLC, Francini Inc., Caesarstone USA Inc.,
C&C North America Inc., Surface Warehouse L.P., Arizona Tile LLC, LX Hausys
America Inc., Cambria Company LLC, Parsoda USA Inc., and Pacific Shore Stones
LLC
 
T/R:     PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION FOR TRIAL PREFERENCE
IS GRANTED.
 
PLAINTIFFS TO
NOTICE.  
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing counsel
(or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
oppositions, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 13, 2023, Plaintiffs Rodolfo
Garcia-Rosas and Alma Delia Llamas filed the operative first amended complaint
against Defendants Architectural Surfaces, Inc., et al., asserting causes of
action for (1) negligence; (2) strict liability – warning defect; (3) strict
liability – design defect; (4) fraudulent concealment; (5) breach of implied
warranties; and (6) loss of consortium. Plaintiff alleges he developed
silicosis and consequential injuries through his employment working with stone
products manufactured, distributed, and/or supplied by Defendants.
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
“In its discretion, the court may also
grant a motion for preference that is accompanied by clear and convincing
medical documentation that concludes that one of the parties suffers from an
illness or condition raising substantial medical doubt of survival of that
party beyond six months, and that satisfies the court that the interests of
justice will be served by granting the preference.”  (Code of Civil Procedure § 36(d).)
 
Plaintiffs move for an order
maintaining the current trial date of February 10, 2025 with preference.
Plaintiffs represent that Rodolfo Garcia-Rosas's medical condition is such that
he may not survive beyond six months. In opposition, Defendants argue that
Plaintiffs have not provided sufficient evidence of Plaintiff’s medical
condition and argue that preference will prejudice Defendants. Defendants also
assert that extensive discovery still needs to be conducted.
 
Plaintiff’s evidence of Mr. Garcia-Rosas'
medical condition is sufficient to show that preference is appropriate under
CCP § 36(d). Preference also serves the interests of justice. The case has been
pending since December 2022, and already is set for trial in February 2025. Defendants’
arguments concerning the status of discovery and possible additional parties do
not provide grounds to deny this motion. Plaintiffs’ motion for trial
preference is GRANTED.
 
To comply with Code of Civil Procedure
§ 36(f), the Court will advance the trial date from February 10, 2025 to
February 3, 2025 at 9:30 am. The final status conference is advanced to January
24, 2025 at 9:30 am.


 