 Case Number:  23STCV07604    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles




 
Shana Smith,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV07604




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Los Angeles County Metropolitan
  Transportation Authority, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: October 10, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Enforce Subpoena for Business
Records
Moving Party: Defendants LACMTA and Felipe
Gutierrez Olea
Responding Party: None
 
T/R:     DEFENDANTS’
MOTION TO ENFORCE SUBPOENA IS GRANTED.
UCLA TO COMPLY WITH THE SUBPOENA WITHIN 15 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING.
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing. 
 
The Court considers the moving papers.
No opposition has been received. 
 
CCP § 1987.1 provides, “[i]f a subpoena
requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents,
electronically stored information, or other things before a court, or at the
trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon
motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the
court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard,
may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing
compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare,
including protective orders.”
Defendants move to enforce a subpoena served
on third-party UCLA Resnick
Neuropsychiatric Hospital and Behavioral Health Services on June 7, 2024. The subpoena seeks mental
healthcare records from Plaintiff’s provider. Plaintiff alleges Defendant Olea
sexually harassed her, causing emotional distress. As Plaintiff has placed her
mental and emotional condition at issue, these records are relevant and
discoverable. No opposition has been filed to show otherwise.
Defendants’ motion is GRANTED. The Court
declines to award sanctions.