  Case Number:  22STCV04815    Hearing Date:   March 11, 2024    Dept:  71  
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



TIMOTHY
  HENNESSY,  
  
         vs.
 
ROBERT ASSIL,
  et al.


 Case No.: 
  22STCV04815
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  March 11, 2024



 
Defendant Robert
Assil’s demurrer to Plaintiff Timothy Hennessy’s second amended complaint is
sustained without leave to amend as to the 6th cause of action.
Defendant
Oakwood Holdings LLC’s demurrer to Plaintiff Timothy Hennessy’s second amended
complaint is sustained without leave to amend as to the 6th cause of
action.
 
Defendant Robert
Assil (“Assil”) (“Defendant”) demurs to Plaintiff Timothy Hennessy’s (“Hennessy”)
(“Plaintiff”) second amended complaint (“SAC”) on the grounds that the 6th
cause of action in the SAC fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action against Assil and the SAC is uncertain.  (Notice of Demurrer Assil, pg. 2; C.C.P. §§430.10(e),
(f).)[1]
Defendant Oakwood
Holdings LLC (“Oakwood”) (“Defendant”) demurs to Plaintiff’s SAC on the grounds
that the 6th cause of action in the SAC fails to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action against Oakwood and the SAC is uncertain.  (Notice of Demurrer Oakwood, pg. 2; C.C.P. §§430.10(e),
(f).)[2]
 
Background
Plaintiff filed
his initial complaint on February 8, 2022, against Assil and Oakwood
(collectively, “Defendants”).  Plaintiff
filed his first amended complaint (“FAC”) on January 18, 2023, alleging nine
causes of action against Defendants: (1) wrongful eviction; (2) breach of the
covenant of quiet enjoyment; (3) failure to offer re-rental (LAMC §151.27); (4)
unlawfully offering withdrawn rental units for rent and/or lease (LAMC
§151.25); (5) negligence; (6) intentional infliction of emotional distress; (7)
violation of LAMC, Art. 5.3; (8) violation of Los Angeles County Code
§8.52.130; and (9) fraudulent misrepresentation.
On July 28, 2023,
this Court overruled both Defendants’ demurrers to the FAC as to the 1st, 2nd,
3rd, 4th, 5th, 7th, and 8th causes of action and sustained the demurrers with
20 days leave to amend as to the 6th and 9th causes of action.  (7/28/23 Minute Order.)
On October 6,
2023, Assil filed his demurrer.  On
October 9, 2023, Oakwood filed its demurrer.  On February 27, 2024, Plaintiff filed his
consolidated oppositions.  As of the date
of this hearing no replies have been filed.
 
A.  
Assil’s Demurrer
Meet and Confer
On or about September 5, 2023, Assil’s
counsel sent a meet and confer letter to Plaintiff’s counsel regarding
deficiencies in the Sixth and Ninth Causes of Action.  (Decl. of Jafari ¶8, Exh. C.)  Assil’s counsel declares the parties
conducted the required telephonic meet and confer on September 5, 2023.  (Decl. of Jafari ¶8.)  Assil’s counsel declares that because the
parties were unable to resolve the issues raised, Plaintiff’s counsel sent a
memorializing email confirming that he had granted Assil’s counsel an extension
until September 25, 2023, to file a demurrer.  (Decl. of Jafari ¶9, Exh. D.)  Assil’s counsel declares that on September
22, 2023, he contacted Plaintiff’s counsel by email requesting a further extension
to file a demurrer until October 6, 2023, which Plaintiff’s counsel granted.  (Decl. of Jafari ¶10, Exh. E.)  Assil’s counsel’s declaration is sufficient
under C.C.P. §430.41.  Therefore, the
Court will consider Assil’s demurrer.
 
Summary of
Demurrer
Assil demurs on
the basis that Plaintiff’s 6th cause of action fails to state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action against Assil and is uncertain.  (Demurrer Assil, pgs. 5-7; C.C.P.
§§430.10(e), (f).)
 
Legal Standard
“[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a
complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385,
388.)  A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (See Donabedian v. Mercury Insurance Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider
declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted
for the truth of their contents].)  For
purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed
to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of
law.  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital
District (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Failure to State
a Claim
Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress (6th COA)
“A cause of action for
intentional infliction of emotional distress exists when there is ‘(1) extreme
and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or
reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s
suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate
causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct.’ A
defendant’s conduct is ‘outrageous’ when it is so ‘extreme as to exceed all
bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.’ And the defendant’s
conduct must be ‘intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the realization
that injury will result.’”  (Hughes v.
Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050-1051; CACI 1600.)
“[B]ehavior may be considered
outrageous if a defendant (1) abuses a relation or position which gives him
power to damages the plaintiff’s interest; (2) knows the plaintiff is susceptible
to injuries through mental distress; or (3) acts intentionally or unreasonably
with the recognition that the acts are likely to result in illness through
mental distress.”  (Stoiber v.
Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 921, citing Newby v. Alto Riviera
Apartments (1976) 60 Cal.App.3d 288, 297).
Plaintiff alleges at all
relevant times, Defendants were aware that Plaintiff was disabled and that the
loss of his primary residence would cause him mental torment, stress, grief,
and other serious injuries to his mind and well-being.  (SAC ¶69.) 
Plaintiff alleges that despite such knowledge, Defendants devised and
carried out a fraudulent scheme to remove Plaintiff from his rent-controlled
home, all so that Defendants could re-rent his Unit at a higher rate and
maximize profits.   (SAC ¶69.) 

Plaintiff alleges Defendants’
acts and conduct were extreme and outrageous in that Defendant were aware and knew
that the same were wrongful and improper and would and did cause Plaintiff
mental torment, grief, and other serious injuries to his mind and well-being.  (SAC ¶70.) 
Plaintiff alleges Defendants’ acts and conduct were intentional (not
accidental), deliberate, willful, or done in reckless disregard of the
likelihood they would cause Plaintiff serious emotional distress.  (SAC ¶71.) 
Plaintiff alleges in doing the acts alleged above, Defendants inflicted
severe emotional distress upon Plaintiff. 
(SAC ¶72.)
Plaintiff alleges as a direct
and proximate result of the acts and conduct of Defendants, Plaintiff suffered and
continues to suffer severe emotional distress, mental suffering, and other
personal injuries, all to Plaintiff’s damage in a sum exceeding the
jurisdictional minimum of the Court. 
(SAC ¶73.)  Plaintiff alleges as a
further direct and proximate result of the acts and conduct of Defendants,
Plaintiff has been required to employ physicians and other healthcare
professionals to diagnose and treat Plaintiff’s illness, severe emotional
distress, and personal injuries. Plaintiff has incurred medical and healthcare expenses
due to the conduct of Defendants and the injuries alleged herein.  (SAC ¶74.)
          Plaintiff fails to sufficiently allege
Defendants’ conduct was intentional such that it was directed to cause
Plaintiff severe emotional distress. 
Plaintiff alleges Defendants’ outrageous conduct was to devise and carrying
out a scheme to evict Plaintiff, a disabled individual, from his
rent-controlled home.  (SAC ¶69.)  While Plaintiff alleges Defendants were in a
position of power and abused that power through their conduct, Plaintiff fails
to allege Defendants’ actions were made with intent to cause Plaintiff distress
and the actual and
proximate causes of Plaintiff’s alleged emotional distress beyond mere
conclusory allegations.
          Accordingly, Assil’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s 6th cause of
action is sustained without leave to amend.
 
Uncertainty
A demurrer for
uncertainty will be sustained only where the complaint is so bad that defendant
cannot reasonably respond—i.e., he or she cannot reasonably determine what
issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed
against him or her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) 
Assil argues the 6th
cause of action does not explain how Defendants allegedly defrauded Plaintiff
or identify any fraudulent actions beyond those inherent in any eviction
process.  (Demurrer Assil, pg. 6.)
Where a demurrer
is made upon this ground, it must distinctly specify exactly how or why
the pleading is uncertain, and where such uncertainty appears (by reference to
page and line numbers of the complaint).  (See Fenton v. Groveland
Community Services District (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 797, 809, disapproved
on other grounds by Katzberg v. Regents of University of California
(2002) 29 Cal.4th 300, 328 n.30].)  Here, Assil fails to reference pages
and line numbers of the SAC that render the pleading so confusing that he
cannot tell what they are supposed to respond to. 
Accordingly, Assil’s
demurrer to Plaintiff’s SAC on the basis of uncertainty is overruled. 
 
Conclusion
Assil’s demurrer
to Plaintiff’s SAC is sustained without leave to amend as to the 6th
cause of action.
Moving Party to
give notice.
 
B.    Oakwood’s
Demurrer
Summary of
Demurrer
Oakwood demurs on
the basis that Plaintiff’s 6th cause of action fails to state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action against Oakwood and is uncertain.  (Demurrer Oakwood, pgs. 4-7; C.C.P.
§§430.10(e), (f).)
Oakwood’s
demurrer is substantively identical to Assil’s demurrer. Therefore, the Court’s
ruling on Oakwood’s demurrer is the same as its demurrer to Assil’s.
 
Conclusion
Oakwood’s
demurrer to Plaintiff’s SAC is sustained without leave to amend as to
the 6th cause of action.
Moving Party to
give notice.
 
 
Dated:  March _____, 2024
                                                                             





  