  Case Number:  23PSCV01643    Hearing Date:   March 27, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
Plaintiff's Notice And Motion To Quash Deposition
Subpoenas To 
Plaintiff's Medical Providers, Or, In The Alternative,
For Protective Order, And Request For Reasonable Sanctions is MOOT because
Defendants appear amenable to limiting the scope of the subpoenas and placing a
protective order. No monetary sanctions are imposed. 
 
Background
 
This is a personal
injury case. Plaintiff JORGE LOYOLA, an individual, by and through his guardian
ad litem, SOLEDAD LOPEZ alleges the following against Defendants POSITIVE
BEHAVIOR STEPS CORPORATION(“PBS”); SAN GABRIEL POMONA REGIONAL CENTER (“Pomona
Regional”); MICHAEL PENGSON PEDROSA (“Pedrosa”): Plaintiff, who is
developmentally disabled, non-verbal, and autistic, is a client of Defendants
PBS and Pomona Regional. Pedrosa is Plaintiff’s caretaker. There are two
incidents at issue. The first walk happened on 5/18/2020 wherein Pedrosa “became
abusive (either verbal and/or physical) towards Plaintiff, such that Police
Officers were involved and escorted PEDROSA and Plaintiff back to Plaintiff’s
house.” (Second Amended Complaint (SAC) ¶20.)
The second walk happened the day after on 5/19/2020 wherein, after returning
three hours later, Plaintiff was crying about his right arm, which was later
diagnosed with a broken arm. (¶22-28.) The basis of the complaint is that
Defendants “either negligently and/or intentionally, abused and/or neglected
the Plaintiff, and such negligence, abuse, and/or neglect, was the actual,
proximate, and substantial cause of Plaintiff’s harm.” (¶29.) 
 
On June 1, 2023,
Plaintiff filed suit. 
 
On July 10, 2023,
the clerk filed a notice of voiding Pedrosa’s answer.
 
On August 17, 2023,
Pomona Regional filed its answer. 
 
On October 3, 2023,
Plaintiff filed its FAC asserting the following 6 causes of action (COAs): 1.     Negligence 2.     Negligent hire, supervision, and retention 3.     Negligence per se in violation of mandatory
duties under CANRA the child abuse and neglect reporting act (penal code §§ 11164, et seq.) 4.     Assault 5.     Battery 6.     Harassment in violation of Unruh civil rights
act (civil code § 51)
 
On November 2, 2023,
Pomona Regional filed its answer. 
 
On November 7, 2023,
PBS filed the instant demurrer x MTS, which the court sustained the demurrer
and granted in part the MTS. 
 
On January 4, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed their SAC, reasserting the same COAs against the same
Defendants.
 
On January 31, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed the instant motion to quash.
 
On March 11, 2024, a
Stipulation was filed and signed allowing Plaintiff to file a third amended
complaint (3AC). The 3AC (p. 11 of 27 of PDF) is based upon negligence and
harassment in violation of Unruh Civil Rights Act (total of 4 COAs). 
 
On March 14, 2024,
Defendant PBS filed its ‘Opposition Of Defendant Positive Behavioral
Steps Corporation To Plaintiff’s Motion To Quash Deposition Subpoenas To
Plaintiff's Medical Providers, Or, In The Alternative, For Protective Order And
Request For $1,527.00 In Sanctions.’ 
 
On March 20, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed their reply. 
 
On March 21, 2024,
Pedrosa filed a ‘Notice Of Joinder To Defendant Positive Behavioral
Steps Corporation’s Opposition To Plaintiff’s Motion To Quash Subpoenas To
Plaintiff’s Medical Providers, Or In The Alternative, For Protective Order And
Request For $1,527.00 In Sanctions.’ 
 
Legal Standard
 
Plaintiffs bring forth the motion pursuant to California
Code of Civil Procedure §1987.1. In turn, the statutes provides in pertinent
part, the following: 
 
If a subpoena requires the attendance
of a witness or the production of books, documents, or other things ... at the
taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by the party ...
may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing
compliance with it upon such terms or conditions as the court shall declare,
including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as
may be appropriate to protect the parties, the witness, or the consumer from unreasonable
or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of
privacy of the person.
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiffs will move for an order quashing a subpoenas,
issued by Defendant PBS for production of business records to the following
medical providers: 
 
1) Los Angeles County Fire
Department/Paramedics (Medical Records and Billing); 
2) Falk Mobile Health-Care
Ambulance (Medical Records and Billing); 
3) Pomona Valley Hospital Medical
Center (Medical Records and Billing); 
4) Children's Hospital Los Angeles
(Medical Records and Billing); and 
5) Lerman and Son (Medical Records
and Billing).
 
The subpoenas seek "any and all" documents and
records irrespective of physical, mental, and/or psychological condition. 
 
Plaintiffs make the motion on the grounds of privacy. (See
2:6-9[“Although Defense is entitled to some records, it is certainly not
entitled to the entirety of Plaintiff's file. Defense has failed to meet its
burden in showing a compelling interest to the production of Plaintiff's
complete medical file. Plaintiff has a reasonable expectation to privacy to
such records.”].) 
 
Plaintiffs, however, misstate the burden.[1]

 
The California Supreme Court in Hill v. National
Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 30-40 set forth a
three-pronged test that a party asserting a right against discovery must
establish: 
 
(1) a “legally protected privacy interest;”
(2) there is a “reasonable expectation of privacy in the
circumstances;” and 
(3) that this is a “serious invasion of privacy.” (See
Opp. p. 8.) 
 
The
burden is “on the party asserting a
privacy interest to establish its extent and the seriousness of
the prospective invasion, and against that showing [a court] must weigh the
countervailing interests the opposing party identifies.” (Williams v. Superior Court (2017)
3 Cal.5th 531, 557, emphasis and underline added; see also Hill, supra, 7
Cal.4th at p. 37 [the invasion of privacy must be “sufficiently serious in
[its] nature, scope, and actual or potential impact to constitute an egregious
breach of the social norms underlying the privacy right.”], emphasis
and underline added) The Williams court
clarified, and disapproved of numerous cases holding otherwise, that a
defendant need show a compelling need only if
the information sought would invade “interests fundamental to
personal autonomy.” (Id. at p. 557, emphasis and underline added.)
 
Here, it is
indisputable that the constitution right of privacy applies to a party's
medical records. (Motion p. 3, citing John B. v. Sup. Ct. (2006) 38 Cal.
1177.) But Plaintiffs have not advanced an argument that Plaintiff has a
reasonable expectation of privacy in said records when his injuries are the
basis of the lawsuit. 
 
That said, it appears the motion is moot as Plaintiffs
concede Defendant PBS is entitled to records and PBS has agreed to “seek
only records from providers identified by Plaintiff as treaters of his alleged
injuries in this case” and has “agreed to limit the time scope to three years
and offered to limit the scope to injuries and pain and suffering to the right
arm and discussions regarding abuse or reporting. PBS was also agreeable to a
protective order.” (Opp. p. 6:13-18.) 
 
To the extent that Reply addresses the above, Plaintiffs
characterize Defendant’s meet and confer efforts as “insincere” (Reply p. 5) as
efforts were made after the motion was filed. But whether concessions
were made before or after is inapposite to the merits of the motion. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the
foregoing, as Defendant is amenable to tailoring the subpoenas, the
motion is MOOT. No monetary sanctions are imposed. 
 


