  Case Number:  22SMCV00785    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Don v. W.I.
Simonson, et al., Case No. 22SMCV00785
Hearing Date July
16, 2024
Defendants W.I.
Simonson, Watkins, Bland, Vides’s Demurrer to Third Amended Complaint
 
Plaintiff sues
defendants W.I. Simonson, Watkins, Bland and Vides, alleging conversion, fraud,
conspiracy, misrepresentation and breach of contractual duties stemming from
defendants’ alleged unauthorized removal and alteration of plaintiff’s
vehicle’s Accident-Avoidance System while the vehicle was at Simonson’s repair
facility. 
 
Plaintiff brought
his Tundra to Simonson’s repair facility to have a screw removed from a tire
and alleges, via the third amended complaint, that an accident avoidance system
was removed and replaced and the grill replaced. Simonson employee Bland informed
his boss Watkins about plaintiff’s concern. Plaintiff alleges Simonson
supervisor Watkins told Simonson employee Bland that surveillance footage
showed Simonson mechanic Vides removing something under the hood. Plaintiff alleges
he was not shown the video as part of defendants’ conspiracy to deny the theft.
Defendants demur to the TAC. 
 
Fraud and Deceit
“(T)he elements of
an action for fraud and deceit based on concealment are: (1) the defendant must
have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been
under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have
intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the
plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and
(5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff
must have sustained damage.” Marketing West, Inc. v. Sanyo Fisher (USA)
Corp. (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 603, 612–613. Fraud must be pled with
particularity. Hills Transportation Co. v. Southwest Forest Ind., Inc.
(1968) 266 Cal.App.2d 702, 707. However, a common exception to the
particularity requirement is when defendant presumptively would know. See e.g.,
Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 158. To
withstand a demurrer, the facts constituting every element of the fraud must be
alleged with particularity. Committee on Children's Television, Inc. v.
General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216.
 
The TAC alleges
defendants’ false representations enticed plaintiff to believe his property
would be returned and Simonson would investigated the theft. TAC ¶29. The
TAC alleges but-for the false representations, plaintiff would have reported
this alleged crime to Santa Monica Police. TAC ¶36. The TAC alleges damage of
at least $18,000, “the costs associated with the removal of the fraudulently
installed equipment and the purchase and reinstallment of the Tundra’s original
SR5 Crewmax sports package including the Accident-Avoidance System and original
front grill.” TAC ¶36. The TAC alleges “damages for the diminution in value of
the Tundra as it has been stripped of its original equipment and replaced with
an inferior, previously used accident-avoidance system[.]” TAC ¶36.
 
Defendants argue plaintiff’s
alleged refrain from reporting does not constitute monetary loss. However, the
TAC alleges damages are $18,000, the cost of removing and reinstalling the
grill and system. TAC ¶36. Thus, damages are sufficiently pled.
 
Defendants rely on
Alliance Mortgage Co. v. Rothwell (1995) 10 Cal.4th 1226, 1240, that
damages for fraud must be “actual monetary loss.” California courts may award
emotional distress damages in fraud actions. See, e.g., Jahn v. Brickey
(1985) 168 Cal. App. 3d 399, 406 [“The Supreme Court long ago determined ‘that
a plaintiff who as a result of a defendant's tortious conduct loses his
property and suffers mental distress may recover not only for the pecuniary
loss but also for his mental distress.’”]. Thus, pleading emotional damages is
allowed and meets the damages element.

Defendants also argue plaintiff’s $18,000 damages claim fails because of the
timeline of events—Watkins and Bland’s alleged misrepresentations were made
after the system was allegedly removed. Therefore, defendants argue,
plaintiff’s alleged damages occurred prior to any alleged misrepresentations. The
court rejects this argument. Had plaintiff reported the crime, he might have
recovered the allegedly stolen property. Taking the allegations as true, as the
court must on demurrer, the TAC alleges damages of costs associated with
removal and reinstallation of the grill and accident avoidance system. OVERRULED.
 
Conspiracy to
Commit Fraud
Conspiracy is not
a separate tort, but a form of vicarious liability by which one defendant can
be held liable for the acts of another. IIG Wireless, Inc. v. Yi (2018)
22 Cal.App.5th 630, 652.
 
Defendants argue
the TAC failed to adequately plead fraud, so there can be no conspiracy to
commit fraud. The court found fraud cause of action was sufficiently pled; see
above. The TAC alleges the conspiracy consisted of an intent to commit fraud.
Plaintiff alleges ways defendants allegedly acted in furtherance of such
conspiracy, including inducing Watkins and Bland’s false representations that
Simonson would investigate and make its employee accountable for his actions. TAC
¶41. The fraud is pled specifically, and allegations support a claim that plaintiff
was induced to not report the theft to the police. OVERRULED. 
 
Negligent
Misrepresentation
“The elements of a
negligent misrepresentation are ‘(1) the misrepresentation of a past or
existing material fact, (2) without reasonable ground for believing it to be
true, (3) with intent to induce another’s reliance on the fact misrepresented,
(4) justifiable reliance on the misrepresentation, and (5) resulting damage.’” Borman
v. Brown (2020) 59 Cal.App.5th 1048, 1060.
 
Defendants argue
plaintiff failed to adequately plead damages. See above analysis. OVERRULED.
 
Breach of Oral
Contract
Whether written,
oral, or implied, the elements for breach of contract are: (1) parties capable
of contracting, (2) mutual consent, (3) a lawful object, (4) sufficient cause
or consideration, (5) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for failure to perform,
(6) defendant’s breach, and (7) damage. Civil Code §§ 1550, 1605, 1614; Stockton
Mortgage, Inc. v. Tope (2014) 233 Cal.App.4th 437.
 
The TAC alleges
plaintiff and Simonson entered into an oral contract for vehicle service. TAC ¶53.
It alleges plaintiff’s consideration was his good will in bringing the vehicle
to defendants for service. TAC ¶54. It alleges defendants breached by failing
to remove the screw and removing the system. TAC ¶¶53, 55.
 
Defendants argue
the alleged contract lacks consideration. Defendants argue neither plaintiff’s
good will nor access to the vehicle constitute consideration, because (1)
plaintiff’s “good will” is not consideration and (2) vehicle access was
necessary to remove the screw and is not consideration. Here, the court finds
the consideration element is met. Plaintiff adequately alleges an oral contract
and consideration. OVERRULED.