 Case Number:  22STCV27380    Hearing Date:   June 14, 2024    Dept:  76 Defendant
Screamline Investment Corporation’s demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint is
SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to the first through fourth causes of
action. 
ANALYSIS
Demurrer
Meet
and Confer
            The form Declaration of Sandra J.
Vivonia reflects that Plaintiff’s counsel did not respond to meet and confer
efforts. This satisfied Civ. Proc. Code, § 430.41(a)(3)(B). 
Discussion
Defendant
Screamline Investment Corporation demurs to the Second Amended Complaint as
follows:
1.         First Cause of Action (Breach of
Contract).
Defendant
argues that this cause of action is based upon a contract to which Defendant
Screamline is not a party. Attached as Exhibit A to the 2AC is a policy whereby
the named insured is Screamline Investment Corp., and the Insurer is New York
Marine and General Insurance Company, not Plaintiff Coaction Specialty
Insurance Group. Thus, Defendant argues, Plaintiff Coaction is not the real
party in interest and lacks standing to assert this cause of action. 
The 2AC
alleges at ¶ 5:
 
5. Plaintiff
is an insurance carrier. The entity New York Marine & General is a State of
New York corporation.  This entity, New
York Marine & General, is a wholly owned subsidiary of Plaintiff COACTION
SPECIALTY INSURANCE GROUP, INC. (F/K/A PROSIGHT SPECIALTY INSURANCE). The
policy was written under the New York Marine & General entity name.  Plaintiff has the right to collect any
outstanding balance from Defendant.  
 
This is
the only basis alleged which forms the basis of standing to sue for Plaintiff
Coaction Specialty Insurance Group, Inc. (f/k/a Prosight Specialty Insurance).
 
However,
there is no basis offered for a parent company having standing to sue to
enforce contracts entered into by the subsidiary, absent an assignment of that
right, or language in the contract whereby the parent was an intended
third-party beneficiary.  “Corporate
entities are presumed to have separate existences, and the corporate form will
be disregarded only when the ends of justice require this result.” (Citations
omitted).  In particular, there is a
strong presumption that a parent company is not the employer of its
subsidiary's employees. (Citation omitted.)”  (Laird v.
Capital Cities/Abc (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 727, 737.)
 
The
insurance contract attached as Exhibit A to the 2AC does not contain language
whereby Coaction Specialty Insurance Group, Inc. (f/k/a Prosight Specialty
Insurance) is an intended third-party beneficiary of the contract. 
 
“California law permits third party beneficiaries
to enforce the terms of a contract made for their benefit.” (Citation omitted.) That
authority is codified in Civil Code  [*1022]  section 1559, which
states: “A contract, made expressly for the benefit of a third person, may be
enforced by him at any time before the parties thereto rescind it.”
. . . 
 
 [*1023] 
On the other hand, “the third person need not be named or identified individually to be an
express beneficiary.” (Citations omitted.) “A third party may enforce a contract where he
shows that he is a member of a class of persons for whose benefit it was made.”
(Citations omitted.)
While intent is pivotal, there is no requirement
that “both of the contracting parties must intend to benefit the third party …
.” (Citation omitted.) Rather, “it
is sufficient that the promisor must have understood that the promisee had such
intent.” (Citations omitted.) Thus, a
third party will qualify as an intended beneficiary where “the circumstances
indicate that the promisee”—here, Mobile—“intends to give the beneficiary the
benefit of the promised performance.” (Rest.2d., supra, § 302, subd. (1)(b).)
(Spinks v. Equity Residential
Briarwood Apartments (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1004, 1021-22, 1023 [bold
emphasis added].)
 
Nor did
Plaintiff plead that it is an assignee of the right to sue to enforce the
insurance contract. 
Finally,
Plaintiff’s argument that New York Marine & General was acting as agent for
Plaintiff in entering into the insurance contract is not persuasive, as nowhere
in the insurance policy is Plaintiff Coaction Specialty Insurance Group, Inc.
(f/k/a Prosight Specialty Insurance) identified as a party to the contract. 
Plaintiff
was previously warned that it would only be given one final opportunity to
pleads facts demonstrating that it is the real party in interest as to this
cause of action. That opportunity has now been exhausted.
The
demurrer to the first cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to
amend. 
2.         Second
Cause of Action (Open Book Account).
            For
the reasons discussed above re: the first cause of action, there are
insufficient facts pled to demonstrate that Plaintiff is the real party in
interest as to this cause of action.
 
Plaintiff
was previously warned that it would only be given one final opportunity to
pleads facts demonstrating that it is the real party in interest as to this
cause of action. That opportunity has now been exhausted.
 
            The demurrer to the second cause of action is SUSTAINED without
leave to amend.
 
3.         Third
Cause of Action (Account Stated).
 
            For
the reasons discussed above re: the first cause of action, there are
insufficient facts pled to demonstrate that Plaintiff is the real party in
interest as to this cause of action.
 
Plaintiff
was previously warned that it would only be given one final opportunity to
pleads facts demonstrating that it is the real party in interest as to this
cause of action. That opportunity has now been exhausted.
 
            The demurrer to the third cause of action is SUSTAINED without
leave to amend.
 
4.         Fourth
Cause of Action (Quantum Meruit).
 
            For
the reasons discussed above re: the first cause of action, there are
insufficient facts pled to demonstrate that Plaintiff is the real party in
interest as to this cause of action.
 
Plaintiff
was previously warned that it would only be given one final opportunity to
pleads facts demonstrating that it is the real party in interest as to this
cause of action. That opportunity has now been exhausted.
 
            The demurrer to the fourth cause of action is SUSTAINED without
leave to amend.
 
            Notably,
Defendant requests an award of attorney’s fees and costs at Page 4:4 of the
Notice of Demurrer, but there is no contractual or statutory basis for such an
award, as no contract exists between the parties.