..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 21STCV20203
Plaintiff's Name: Yvette Ortiz
Defendant's Name: Westfield, LLC, ET AL.
People-Names: Yvette Ortiz, Alicia Williams, Dr. Kevin Ehrhart
Company-Names: Westfield, LLC, Nationwide Janitorial Services, Inc., Culver City Mall, LLC
Places: Los Angeles County, Virginia, Virginia Beach, Santa Monica, California
Dates: June 9, 2019, July 5, 2022, February 2, 2024
Events: Slip and fall accident, medical examination, trial
Money: None specified
Intentions: Plaintiff seeks compensation for injuries, Defendants seek to compel Plaintiff's medical examination
Facts: Plaintiff slipped and fell on water near the door of the restroom on June 9, 2019, Plaintiff resides in Virginia, Defendants reside in California, Plaintiff is willing to comply with medical examination requirements
Disputes: Plaintiff opposes Defendants' motion to compel IME, Defendants argue Plaintiff refuses to appear for an orthopedic medical examination in California
Acts: Plaintiff filed an action against Defendants, Defendants move for an order permitting Plaintiff's orthopedic examination, Plaintiff opposes the motion, Defendants file a reply
Agreements: Plaintiff agreed to medical examination provided it was within a reasonable distance from her Virginia Beach residence
Laws: CCP ยง 2032.220, CCP ยง 2032.320(e)
Case Citations: None specified
Statutes: California Code of Civil Procedure (CCP)
Roles: Plaintiff - Yvette Ortiz, Defendant - Westfield, LLC, ET AL., Judge - Hon. Michelle C. Kim
Significant Statements: "Defendants do not establish good cause for requiring Plaintiff to travel from Virginia to Los Angeles County for the IME", "Defendants merely speculate that having an expert examine Plaintiff in Virginia would be prejudicial to their defense of the matter"
```

And here is the English-text summary:

The Judge has issued a tentative ruling denying the defendants' motion to permit the plaintiff's medical examination in Los Angeles County. The plaintiff, Yvette Ortiz, filed an action against the defendants, Westfield, LLC, ET AL., for injuries sustained in a slip and fall accident on June 9, 2019. The defendants seek to compel the plaintiff's orthopedic examination with Dr. Kevin Ehrhart, but the plaintiff opposes the motion, arguing that she is willing to comply with medical examination requirements provided it is within a reasonable distance from her Virginia Beach residence. The defendants argue that the plaintiff refuses to appear for an orthopedic medical examination in California, but the Judge finds that they have not established good cause for requiring the plaintiff to travel from Virginia to Los Angeles County for the examination. The Judge also finds that the defendants' contention that they will be prejudiced by using a Virginia expert witness is unpersuasive.
