 Case Number:  21STCV20203    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  YVETTE ORTIZ, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  WESTFIELD, LLC, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV20203  [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION TO PERMIT PLAINTIFF’S MEDICAL EXAMINATION IN LOS ANGELES COUNTY   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  February 2, 2024  I. Background Plaintiff Yvette Ortiz (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendant Westfield, LLC and Alicia Williams for injuries Plaintiff allegedly sustained when she slipped and fell on water near the door of the restroom on June 9, 2019. On July 5, 2022, Plaintiff filed an amendment to complaint naming Nationwide Janitorial Services, Inc. as Doe 1.   Defendants Culver City Mall, LLC, erroneously sued as Westfield, LLC, and Nationwide Janitorial Services, Inc. (“Defendants”), at this time, move for an order permitting Defendants to obtain Plaintiff’s orthopedic examination with Dr. Kevin Ehrhart (“Dr. Ehrhart”), located at 2020 Santa Monica Blvd., Ste. 400, Santa Monica, California 90045, which is more than 75 miles from Plaintiff’s residence in Virginia.  Plaintiff opposes the motion, and Defendants filed a reply.   Moving Argument Defendants argue that Plaintiff refuses to appear for an orthopedic medical examination in California, and that it deprives Defendants the right to have Plaintiff examined by an expert of their choosing. Defendants agree that any order to be conditioned upon Defendants advancing the reasonable expenses and costs of Plaintiff’s travel to Dr. Ehrhart. Defendants contend without an order, Defendants will be forced to attend trial without having Plaintiff medically examined, or forced to utilize an expert in California who has never personally examined Plaintiff.  Opposing Argument Plaintiff argues she is willing to comply with medical examination requirements. However, Plaintiff agreed to the medical examination provided it was within a reasonable distance from her Virginia Beach residence, and that Defendants have not justified a California-based defense medical examination. Plaintiff avers that she moved in with her brother in Virginia Beach, Virginia, and underwent hip replacement surgery and continues to undergo treatment for her injuries at Riverside Hayes Medical Center in Virginia.  Reply Argument Defendants argue they are familiar with expert witnesses in Los Angeles County, and would be prejudiced by being forced to choose a Virginia expert witness.   II. Motion to Compel IME  CCP § 2032.220 states: (a) In any case in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for personal injuries, any defendant may demand one physical examination of the plaintiff, if both of the following conditions are satisfied: (1) The examination does not include any diagnostic test or procedure that is painful, protracted, or intrusive. (2) The examination is conducted at a location within 75 miles of the residence of the examinee.  Furthermore, CCP § 2032.320(e) provides: (e) If the place of the examination is more than 75 miles from the residence of the person to be examined, an order to submit to it shall be entered only if both of the following conditions are satisfied: (1) The court determines that there is good cause for the travel involved. (2) The order is conditioned on the advancement by the moving party of the reasonable expenses and costs to the examinee for travel to the place of examination.  Here, Plaintiff does not dispute Defendants are entitled to an IME.  Nonetheless, Defendants do not establish good cause for requiring Plaintiff to travel from Virginia to Los Angeles County for the IME. Defendants do not make any showing they have attempted to retain an expert within 75 miles of Plaintiff’s residence or provide evidence showing that an expert in Virginia would not be available to testify in California for trial. Defendants contention that they have not seen how a Virginia expert witness would perform at trial, and therefore will be prejudiced by using a Virginia expert, is unpersuasive. Defendants merely speculate that having an expert examine Plaintiff in Virginia would be prejudicial to their defense of the matter. Thus, Defendants have not established good cause for requiring Plaintiff to travel from Virginia to California for the IME.  Based on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion for an order permitting Plaintiff’s IME in Los Angeles County is denied.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 1st day of February 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   