 Case Number:  23STCV02627    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  9, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV02627




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Leave to Take Physical Examination of Plaintiff in Specialty of
  Neuro-Ophthalmology




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Ehud Levy, 1621 Westerly
  Terrace, LLC and Alexander Henry Levin   




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Alma
  Nieva-Perez



 
 
MOTION
 
            On February 7, 2023, Plaintiff
Alma
Nieva-Perez (“Plaintiff”) filed this action after allegedly falling off an
external staircase.   
 
             Defendants Ehud Levy, 1621 Westerly
Terrace, LLC, and Alexander Henry Levin (“Defendants”) now
move for leave to take a physical examination of Plaintiff with Alfredo A.
Sadun, M.D., Ph.D, a specialist in neuro-ophthalmology. Plaintiff opposes and
Defendants repy. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“In any case in
which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for personal injuries, any defendant may
demand one physical examination of the plaintiff, if both of the following
conditions are satisfied: (1) The examination does not include any diagnostic
test or procedure that is painful, protracted, or intrusive. (2) The
examination is conducted at a location within 75 miles of the residence of the
examinee.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220, subd. (a).)¿¿¿ 
 
“If any
party desires to obtain discovery by a physical examination other than that
described in Article 2 (commencing with Section 2032.210), or by a mental
examination, the party shall obtain leave of court.  A motion for an examination under subdivision
(a) shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person
or persons who will perform the examination. The motion shall be accompanied by
a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”  (Civ. Proc., §
2032.310, subds. (a)-(b).)  
 
“The court
shall grant a motion for a physical or mental examination under Section
2032.310 only for good cause shown.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd.
(a); see also Sporich v. Superior Court (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 422, 427
[“the good cause which must be shown should be such that will satisfy an
impartial tribunal that the request may be granted without abuse of the
inherent rights of the adversary”].) A showing of good cause generally requires
“that the party produce specific facts justifying discovery and that the
inquiry be relevant to the subject matter of the action or reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Vinson v.
Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.)  And “[a] party who chooses
to allege that he has mental and emotional difficulties can hardly deny his
mental state is in controversy.”  (Id. at p.
839.)   
 
The examination
will be limited to whatever condition is “in controversy” in the action.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc. §2032.020(a).)¿ This means the examination must be directly related
to the specific injury or condition that is the subject of the litigation.¿ (Roberts
v. Superior Court (1973) 9 Cal.3d 330, 337.)¿ Often, a party's pleadings
put his or her mental or physical condition in controversy ... as when a
plaintiff claims continuing mental or physical injury resulting from
defendant's acts: “A party who chooses to allege that he has mental and
emotional difficulties can hardly deny his mental state is in controversy.”¿
(See Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 837, wherein the
plaintiff claimed ongoing emotional distress from sexual harassment by former
employer.)¿ Discovery responses can also frame the issues regarding the
injuries and damages alleged.¿¿ 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Christopher Babadjanian, Defendants’ counsel,
states the following: “On March 1, 2024, I caused to be sent to plaintiff’s
counsel a meet and confer correspondence requesting their consent to an
ophthalmology examination of plaintiff with Dr. Sadun. On March 6, 2024, I
followed-up that correspondence by sending an email, again requesting plaintiff
consent to the examination to avoid motion practice. I did not receive any
response to the above correspondence.” (Babadjanian Decl. ¶ 9–11.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff claims visual impairment problems, including blurry vision
and light sensitivity, that are ongoing. (Babadjanian Decl. ¶ 6, Exh. B, FROG
#6.2.) In May 2024, Plaintiff attended a defense physical examination with Dr. Millstein,
an orthopedist. However, Defendants contend that Dr. Millstein is not an
ophthalmologist and therefore was unable to examine issues related to
Plaintiff’s vision. As a result, they seek Dr. Sadun, a board-certified
ophthalmologist, to perform a neuro-ophthalmology examination. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that besides orthopedic injuries, she
is alleging a traumatic brain injury. She asserts the vision issues stem from
the brain trauma, and not from an ocular injury. As a result, Plaintiff asserts
that while a neurological exam is justified, an ophthalmology examination is
not.[1]
However, Plaintiff does not dispute the vision issues or contends the
examination will be painful or intrusive. 
 
In reply, Defendants argue that they have a right to investigate the
causes of Plaintiff’s injuries and not rely on Plaintiff’s assertion on what
caused the vision issues.
 
Defendants’ motion also sets forth the time, place, manner,
conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, setting the examination for
July 26, 2024 at 10:00 a.m., at 800 S. Fairmount Ave., Suite 215, Pasadena, CA
91105.
 
            Therefore, based on the information
provided, the Court finds good cause to allow leave for a neuro-ophthalmology
examination. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendants’
Motion for leave to conduct a neuro-ophthalmology examination of Plaintiff is GRANTED.

 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof
of service of such. 


