 Case Number:  23STCV21832    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  9, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV21832




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Leave to Amend Complaint




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Alex Omar Quevedo
  Herrera 




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
September 11, 2023, Plaintiffs Maria B. Munoz de Cote Delgado, Alex Omar
Quevedo Herrera, Stephanie Quevedo, Stacey Quevedo, and Alex Quevedo Jr. filed
a complaint against Defendants Malek Zaki Shabbar, Shabbar Zaki Suleiman, Mona
Shabbar, and Does 1 to 30 for injuries related to a motor vehicle accident.  
 
On
August 13, 2023, Plaintiff Alex Quevedo Jr. (“Decedent”) passed away unrelated
to injuries in this case. 
 
On June 10 2024, Plaintiff Alex Omar Quevedo Herrera (“Herrera”) filed
the instant motion to amend the complaint and appoint Herrera as
successor-in-interest to Alex Quevedo Jr. No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Amendment
to Pleadings: General Provisions
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 576, “[a]ny judge, at any time before or
after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon such terms
as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any pleading or pretrial
conference order.”
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1) provides, in
relevant part: “[t]he court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as
may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or
striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a
party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the
time for answer or demurrer.¿ The court may likewise, in its discretion, after
notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment
to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms
allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”¿ 
 
“This discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments,
for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same
lawsuit.”¿(Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court¿(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d
1045, 1047.)¿ The Court of Appeal in Morgan v. Superior Court held “If
the motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and
where the refusal also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert
a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error
but an abuse of discretion.”  (Morgan
v. Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530, citations omitted.)  Moreover, “it is an abuse of discretion for
the court to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was not misled or
prejudiced by the amendment.”  (Kittredge
Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 [opposing
party did not establish harm by the delay in moving to amend the complaint].)
 
“The court may grant leave to amend the pleadings at any stage of the
action.” (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial
(The Rutter Group 2022) ¶ 6:636 (hereafter Weil & Brown).)  Denial of a motion to amend is rarely
justified if the motion is timely made and granting the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party. (Id. at ¶ 6:639, citations omitted.)  However, if the party seeking the amendment
has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party, the judge
has discretion to deny leave to amend. (Id. at ¶ 6:655, citations
omitted. Absent prejudice, any claimed delay alone is not grounds for denial.
“If the delay in seeking the amendment has not misled or prejudiced the other
side, the liberal policy of allowing amendments prevails. Indeed, it is an
abuse of discretion to deny leave in such a case even if sought as late as the
time of trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:653 (citing Higgins v. Del Faro (1981)
123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565).) 
“Prejudice exists where the amendment would result in a delay of trial,
along with loss of critical evidence, added costs of preparation, increased
burden of discovery, etc.  . . .  But the fact that the amendment involves a
change in legal theory which would make admissible evidence damaging to the
opposing party is not the kind of prejudice the court will consider.”  (Weil & Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:656,
citations omitted.)
 
“Even if some prejudice is shown, the judge may still permit the
amendment but impose conditions, as the Court is authorized to grant leave ‘on
such terms as may be proper.’”  (Weil
& Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:663, citation omitted.)  For example, the court may cause the party
seeking the amendment to pay the costs and fees incurred in preparing for
trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:664 (citing Fuller v. Vista Del Arroyo Hotel,
42 Cal.App.2d 400, 404).) 
 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324:  Procedural
Requirements
 
Pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a), a motion to
amend a pleading before trial must: 
 
“(1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleadings,
which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or
amendments;
 
(2) state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be
deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted
allegations are located; and
 
(3) State what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous
pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located.”
 
In addition, under Rule 3.1324(b), a motion to amend a pleading before
trial must be accompanied by a separate declaration that specifies the
following:
 
“(1) the effect of the amendment;
 
 (2) why the amendment is
necessary and proper;
 
(3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered; and
 
(4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.”
 
Successor in Interest
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section 377.31 provides
that the decedent’s personal representative or, if none, the decedent’s
successor in interest may continue a decedent’s pending action. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 377.30; see Adams v. Superior Court (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 71,
78-79.) A successor in interest is the beneficiary of the decedent’s estate or
other successor in interest who succeeds to a cause of action or to a
particular item of the property that is the subject of the cause of action. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 377.11.) Section 377.33 provides that the court in which an
action is continued may make any order concerning parties that is appropriate
to ensure proper administration of justice, including the appointment of the
decedent’s successor in interest as a special administrator or guardian ad
litem.   
 
Section 377.32 provides that a person who seeks to commence
such an action as the decedent’s successor in interest must file an affidavit
or declaration providing certain information, including the decedent’s name,
date and place of decedent’s death, and statements regarding whether the estate
has been administered and that the affiant or declarant is the successor in
interest on decedent’s claim. (Id., § 377.32(a).) A certified copy of
the decedent’s death certificate must also be attached to the affidavit or
declaration. (Id., § 377.32(c).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
As an initial matter, the Declaration of Jazmin G. Barra, in support
of this motion, does not state the effect of the amendment, why the amendment
is necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations
were discovered, or the reasons why the request for amendment was not made
earlier. Moreover, the declaration does not state what allegations are proposed
to be added or deleted to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located
 
Nevertheless, the motion includes a copy of the proposed first amended
complaint and asserts the amendment is solely to appoint Herrera as
successor-in-interest for Decedent. The Declaration of Herrera does not state
where Decedent died but includes a copy of his certified death certificate.
(Exh. B.) However, the Herrera’s declaration states that Decedent’s mother
(Maria B. Munoz De Cote Delgado) is also a potential successor-in-interest and
has agreed to Herrera’s appointment. (Exh. C, Herrera Decl. ¶ 5.) No
declaration by Maria B. Munoz De Cote Delgado attesting to that fact is
provided. 
 
Because there is no declaration from Maria B. Munoz De Cote Delgado
attesting that she has agreed to Herrera being appointed successor-in-interest,
and Herrera’s declaration does not contain the place of Decedent’s death and
does not provide specific facts regarding the assertions that no other person
has a superior right to be substituted, the motion for leave to amend is
denied. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend the complaint is denied.

 
Plaintiff to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 