 Case Number:  22STCV02862    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  9, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV02862




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Expedited Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Antonio Sosa Garcia 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the expedited
petition filed June 24, 2024 by Petitioner Antonio Sosa Garcia (Petitioner) on
behalf of Claimant Alexia Sosa, age 9. The Court conditionally grants the
petition. 
 
Petitioner, Claimant’s father, has filed a declaration
under penalty of perjury attesting that Claimant is fully recovered. (Garcia
Decl. ¶ 4.) 
 
The defects identified in the previous petition have been
cured. (Min. Order, 5/20/24.) 
 
However, Petitioner must complete and file a proposed
order (MC-351) within five (5) Court days. The petition is conditionally
granted pending Petitioner’s completion and filing of the proposed order. 
 
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 