  Case Number:  21STCV35189    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  9, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV35189




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Order Authorizing and Requiring Release of Cell Phone Records 




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Mickey Vasquez, Red Bull
  North America, Inc., and
  Red Bull Distribution Company, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY:


None
  



 
BACKGROUND
 
Defendants Mickey Vasquez, Red Bull North
America, Inc., and Red Bull
Distribution Company, Inc. (“Defendants”) move to compel
compliance with a deposition subpoena for Defendant Mickey Vasquez’s cell phone
records served on non-party T-Mobile USA, Inc. Plaintiff Elia Rosa Mercado
Leiva (“Plaintiff”) has filed a notice of non-opposition. No other opposition
has been filed.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A party seeking discovery from a person who is not a party
to the action may obtain discovery by oral deposition, written deposition, or
deposition subpoena for production of business records.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2020.010.)¿ A deposition subpoena may command either: (1) only the attendance
and testimony of the deponent, (2) only the production of business records for
copying, or (3) the attendance and testimony of the deponent, as well as the
production of business records, other documents, electronically stored
information, and tangible things.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.)¿  
 
A service of a deposition subpoena shall be affected a
sufficient time in advance of the deposition to provide the deponent a
reasonable opportunity to locate and produce any designated documents and,
where personal attendance is commanded, a reasonable time to travel to the
place of deposition.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (a).)¿ Personal
service of any deposition subpoena is effective to require a deponent who is a
resident of California to: personally appear and testify, if the subpoena so specifies;
to produce any specified documents; and to appear at a court session if the
subpoena so specifies.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (c).)¿ A deponent
who disobeys a deposition subpoena may be punished for contempt without the
necessity of a prior order of the court directing compliance by the witness.¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.240.)¿A motion to compel compliance with a deposition
subpoena must be made within 60 days after completion of the deposition record,
the date objections are served, or the date specified for production, and be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., §2025.480,
subd., (b); Board of Registered Nursing v. Sup.Ct. (Johnson &
Johnson) (2021) 59 CA5th 1011, 1032-1033.) 
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1,
subdivision (a) states, “[i]f a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness
or the production of books, documents, or other things before a court, or at
the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court,
upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon
the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be
heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing
compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare,
including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as
may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive
demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the
person.” 
  
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2,
subdivision (a) states, in relevant part, “. . . in making an order pursuant to
motion made . . . under Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award
the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the
motion, including reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was
made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification . . . .” 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
            The Declaration of Anneke J. Shepard, Defendants’ counsel, does not describe a meet and confer effort. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
On June 5, 2024, Defendants
personally served a subpoena on T-Mobile USA, Inc. (“T-Mobile”) requesting cell
phone records for Mickey Vasquez (“Vasquez”). Plaintiff alleges Vasquez was
using his cell phone when the subject motor vehicle accident took place.
Defendants dispute this theory. Therefore, both parties appear to seek the cell
phone records to support their various positions. However, Defendants filed
this motion before T-Mobile objected to the subpoena or failed to comply. Defendants
appear to bring this motion because Plaintiff previously subpoenaed the records
in August 2023. (Shepard Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A.) However, at the time,
T-Mobile objected that it would not produce the records absent a Court order.
It does not appear that Plaintiff attempted to move to compel the subpoena at
that time. 
 
The instant motion was filed on June 5,
2024. However, the production date specified on their subpoena is June 25, 2024.
(Shepard Decl. Exh. F.) Defendants bring this motion anticipating that T-Mobile
will also request a Court order before producing the documents. No opposition
and no reply has been filed for this motion. Therefore, Defendants produce no
evidence that T-Mobile objected or failed to comply with the subpoena. Defendants
however attach declarations from Mickey Vasquez and Tania Vasquez, owners of
the subject cell phone number, giving authorization for releasing their cell
phone records. (Id. ¶¶ 5–6, Exh. D, E.) 
 
“A nonparty must comply (or not)
with the subpoena on the date specified for production. If a party is not
satisfied with the nonparty's compliance, the party has 60 days in which to
meet and confer with the nonparty. These meet and confer efforts do not affect
the mandatory 60-day deadline. The meet and confer process is part of the
60-day period in which to file a motion; it does not extend it. If the party is
still unsatisfied with the nonparty's compliance with any portion of the
subpoena at the end of this period (because, for example, the nonparty still
has not produced the requested documents), the party may file a motion to
compel.” (Board of Registered Nursing v. Superior Court
of Orange County (2021)
59 Cal.App.5th 1011, 1034–35.) 
 
Therefore, since there is no evidence that T-Mobile objected
to the subpoena or failed to comply, the motion to compel compliance is conditionally
denied, subject to Defendant providing updated information at the hearing. The
Court further notes that counsel’s failure to meet and confer further provides
the Court with no information regarding T-Mobile’s position as to this current
motion.
 
 