 Case Number:  23STCV10500    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  9, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV10500




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Leave to File First Amended Cross-Complaint




MOVING PARTY:


Cross-Complainant Burrell Builders, Inc. 




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This
case stems from an alleged construction site injury. On May 10, 2023, Plaintiff
Arcel D. Escalante filed a complaint against Defendants Burrell Construction,
Inc., Foundational Builders Corporation, BA Crete Corp., Lanai Properties, and
Does 1 to 20. 
 
On
November 8, 2023 Cross-Complainant Burrell Builders, Inc.
(“Burrell”) filed a cross-complaint against Foundational Builders Corporation
and Moes 1 to 20 for equitable indemnity and apportionment, and declaratory
relief. On December 12, 2023, Foundational Builders Corporation (“Foundational
Builders”) filed an answer to the cross-complaint. 
 
Burrell
now moves for leave to amend its cross complaint to include causes of action for
breach of contract and express indemnity. No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Under Code of
Civil Procedure section 576, “[a]ny judge, at any time before or after
commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon such terms as
may be proper, may allow the amendment of any pleading or pretrial conference
order.” 
 
“A party who fails to plead a cause of action subject to the
requirements of this article, whether through oversight, inadvertence, mistake,
neglect, or other cause, may apply to the court for leave to amend his
pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time during the course of the action. The
court, after notice to the adverse party, shall grant, upon such terms
as may be just to the parties, leave to amend the pleading, or to file the
cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who failed to plead the
cause acted in good faith.¿ This subdivision shall be liberally construed to
avoid forfeiture of causes of action.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50.)
(Emphasis added.)¿ 
¿ 
The Court of Appeals has explained: “The legislative mandate
is clear. A policy of liberal construction of section 426.50 to avoid
forfeiture of causes of action is imposed on the trial¿court. A motion to file
a cross-complaint at any time during the course
of the action must be granted unless bad faith of
the moving party is demonstrated where forfeiture would otherwise result.
Factors such as oversight, inadvertence, neglect, mistake or other cause, are
insufficient grounds to deny the motion unless accompanied by bad faith.”
(Silver Organizations Ltd. v. Frank¿(1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 98–99.) “‘‘Bad faith,’ is
defined as ‘[t]he opposite of ‘good faith,’ generally implying or involving
actual or constructive fraud, or a design to mislead or deceive another, or a
neglect or refusal to fulfill some duty or some contractual obligation, not
prompted by an honest mistake . . ., but by some interested or sinister
motive[,] . . . not simply bad judgment or negligence, but rather . . . the
conscious doing of a wrong because of dishonest purpose or moral obliquity; . .
. it contemplates a state of mind affirmatively operating with furtive design
or ill will. (Id. at 100.)¿ 
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1)
provides, in relevant part: “[t]he court may, in furtherance of justice, and on
any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding
by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in
the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like
terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.¿ The court may likewise, in its
discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be
just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may
upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this
code.”¿ 
 
“This discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments,
for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same
lawsuit.”¿(Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court¿(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d
1045, 1047.)¿Ordinarily, the court will not consider the validity of the
proposed amended pleading in ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for a
demurrer or motion to strike are premature.¿The court, however, does have
discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed amendment fails to state a
valid cause of action as a matter of law and the defect cannot be cured by
further amendment. (See¿California Casualty General Ins. Co. v.
Superior Court¿(1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281¿[overruled on other grounds
by¿Kransco¿v. American Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co.¿(2000) 23 Cal.4th
390].)¿ 
 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324:  Procedural
Requirements
 
            Pursuant
to California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading
before trial must: 
 
“(1) Include a copy of the proposed
amendment or amended pleadings, which must be serially numbered to
differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; 
(2) state what allegations in the
previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and 
(3) State what allegations are proposed
to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph,
and line number, the additional allegations are located.”
 
            In addition, under Rule 3.1324(b), a
motion to amend a pleading before trial must be accompanied by a separate
declaration that specifies the following:
 
“(1) the effect of the amendment;
(2) why the amendment is necessary and proper;
(3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered; and
(4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.” 
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
As an initial matter, the procedural requirements have not been met
since the declaration in support of this motion does not state when the
subcontract was discovered or why the amendment was not made earlier. The
motion also does not identify by page, paragraph, or line number, where the
proposed additions are found. Nevertheless, Burrell has provided a copy of the
proposed amended cross-complaint. (Stroup Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. A.) 
 
Burrell was the general contractor for the construction site, and it
subcontracted with Foundational Builders, which employed Plaintiff. Burrell
argues that the proposed causes of action are based on an agreement between it
and Foundational Builders, related to the subcontract. No opposition has been
filed for this motion. Therefore, because there is no opposition, and applying
the liberal policy in favor of amendments, the motion for leave is granted. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Cross-Complainant Burrell Builders, Inc.’s motion for leave to file an
amended cross-complaint is GRANTED. Burrell shall file and serve its first
amended cross-complaint within 10 days. 
 
Burrell shall provide notice of the Court’s order and shall file a
proof of service of such.