 Case Number:  21STCV38636    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  JOSEPH GLYZEWSKI, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  STEPHEN R. DIXON, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV38636  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE AMENDED COMPLAINT   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  November 9, 2023  I. Background Plaintiff Joseph Glyzewski (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Stephen R Dixon (“Dixon”) and Stephen R. Dixon Trust (collectively, “Defendants”) for injuries Plaintiff suffered while on Defendants’ premises to repair the air conditioners located on the roof. Plaintiff alleges that as he walked down the ladder from the roof to the floor below, the door hatch immediately slammed shut onto Plaintiff’s body causing him to suffer injuries.  (Compl. at ¶¶ 10-11.) The complaint alleges causes of action for general negligence and premises liability.  Plaintiff now moves for leave to amend the complaint to add a cause of action for concealment and request for punitive damages. Defendants oppose the motion.    Moving Argument Plaintiff provides that he seeks to file a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) to add additional allegations as to Defendants’ prior knowledge of the condition of the roof hatch, and to set forth a third cause of action for intentional concealment and to allege punitive damages based on the results of Plaintiff’s expert Brad Avrit’s (“Avrit”) opinions, and the depositions of onsite property manager Keith Kemp (“Kemp”) and Defendant Dixon. Plaintiff provides there is evidence demonstrating Defendants had knowledge of the condition of the roof door hatch, which had previously fallen on Kemp, and failed to fix the condition and warn others of the condition. Plaintiff contends that the discovery warrants punitive damages, the proposed amendments will not prejudice Defendants, and that Plaintiff is agreeable to a trial continuance.  Opposing Argument Defendants argue there is no legitimate basis for the amendment to assert a new claim for concealment because this is a Privette case, wherein Plaintiff is a licensed contractor hired to perform work at the property and injured in the course of that work. As such, Defendants argue the claim is barred. Further, Defendants aver the allegations are mere recitations of testimony from Plaintiff’s expert Avrit, which was used to oppose a pending motion for summary judgment. Additionally, Defendents contend they will be prejudiced by Plaintiff’s unreasonably delay because Plaintiff’s amendment was not requested at the time he filed his opposition to Defendants’ motion for summary judgment, which was continued because Plaintiff averred he needed additional discovery.   Reply Argument Any reply was due on or before November 2, 2023; none was filed.   II. Motion for Leave to Amend Complaint  CCP § 473(a)(1) provides, in relevant part:  “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.  The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”  “This discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same lawsuit.”  (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.)  Ordinarily, the court will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer or motion to strike are premature.  The court, however, does have discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed amendment fails to state a valid cause of action as a matter of law and the defect cannot be cured by further amendment.  (See California Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281, overruled on other grounds by Kransco v. American Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390.) Under CRC Rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading shall (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located.  Under CRC Rule 3.1324(b), a separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.  Even if a good amendment is proposed in proper form, a long, unwarranted and unexcused delay in presenting it may be a good reason for denial.  In most cases, the factors for timeliness are: (1) lack of diligence in discovering the facts or in offering the amendment after knowledge of them; and (2) the effect of the delay on the adverse party.  If the party seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party, the judge has discretion to deny leave to amend.  (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.)  Prejudice exists where the amendment would require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added costs of preparation such as an increased burden of discovery.  (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.) In this case, Plaintiff’s motion complies with CRC Rule 3.1324(a).  Furthermore, Plaintiff asserts that Kemp was deposed on January 4, 2023 and Dixon on February 23, 2023. On February 23, 2023, Plaintiff reserved a hearing date for leave to amend, and the earliest date available was November 9, 2023. (Mot. Exh. 2.) After reserving the date, Plaintiff then filed this motion on October 16, 2023. In sum, Plaintiff avers that the deposition testimonies are the evidence to support a claim for punitive damages and cause of action for concealment, and thus, there is no showing that Plaintiff delayed in filing this motion.   In opposition, Defendants argue the proposed cause of action for concealment is barred by the Privette doctrine because Plaintiff is a licensed contractor. Ordinarily, the court will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer or motion to strike are premature.¿The court, however, does have discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed amendment fails to state a valid cause of action as a matter of law and the defect cannot be cured by further amendment. (See¿California Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court¿(1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281¿[overruled on other grounds by¿Kransco¿v. American Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co.¿(2000) 23 Cal.4th 390].)   Plaintiff’s complaint alleges that “Plaintiff was hired to make air conditioning repair services at the PREMISES” (Compl. at ¶ 17.) At this stage, there is no conclusion that Plaintiff was an independent contractor wherein the Privette doctrine would foreclose Defendants’ liability. Furthermore, there are two distinct exceptions to the Privette doctrine. “First, in Hooker v. Department of Transportation (2002) 27 Cal.4th 198, 115 Cal.Rptr.2d 853, 38 P.3d 1081 (Hooker), [the California Supreme Court] held that a hirer may be liable when it retains control over any part of the independent contractor's work and negligently exercises that retained control in a manner that affirmatively contributes to the worker's injury. (Id. at p. 202, 115 Cal.Rptr.2d 853, 38 P.3d 1081.) Second, in Kinsman v. Unocal Corp. (2005) 37 Cal.4th 659, 36 Cal.Rptr.3d 495, 123 P.3d 931 (Kinsman), [the California Supreme Court] held that a landowner who hires an independent contractor may be liable if the landowner knew, or should have known, of a concealed hazard on the property that the contractor did not know of and could not have reasonably discovered, and the landowner failed to warn the contractor of the hazard. (Id. at p. 664, 36 Cal.Rptr.3d 495, 123 P.3d 931.)” (Gonzalez v. Mathis, supra, 12 Cal.5th at 38.) Here, it is clear that the second exception to the Privette doctrine may be implicated. Furthermore, Defendants provide no authority to support the contention that a concealment cause of action would be barred in a Privette case or that the proposed amendments would be futile. Additionally, Defendants do not directly address the claim for punitive damages. Nonetheless, to the extent there is any dispute as to whether the proposed FAC sufficiently states a claim for punitive damages, the Court will not consider the validity of any proposed affirmative defenses at this time. (California Casualty General Ins. Co., 173 Cal.App.3d at 281.) Lastly, Defendants have not established both unreasonable delay and prejudice to warrant denying Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend.   Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend is GRANTED. Plaintiffs must file a separate copy of the FAC within 10 days.  Plaintiff is ordered to give notice.   PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 8th day of November 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   