 Case Number:  20STCV03778    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  MARIANNA MELIKOVA, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  ALEXIS NICHOLSON, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 20STCV03778 (C/W 20STCV26349)  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL SECOND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION OF PLAINTIFF   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  November 9, 2023  I. Background On January 29, 2020, Marianna Melikova (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Alexis Nicholson and Christoph Martin Schuenke (“Defendants”) for damages arising out of a motor vehicle accident. On March 6, 2023, Defendants filed the instant motion to compel a second defense medical examination (“DME”) of Plaintiff and seeks monetary sanctions. Plaintiff opposes the motion, and Defendants filed a reply.   Moving Argument Defendants argue Plaintiff alleges various bodily injuries arising from the incident, including undergoing a total knee replacement and a recommendation to undergo lumbar spine fusion surgery. Plaintiff sought treatment and consultation from two different providers specializing in different body parts, including lumbar spine and knee.  Defendant employed orthopedic surgeon Dr. Brian S. Grossman (“Grossman”) to examine Plaintiff’s alleged spine injuries, and orthopedic surgeon Dr. Earl Brien (“Brien”) to examine Plaintiff’s knee injuries. Plaintiff appeared for her first DME with Dr. Grossman on March 29, 2023. After meeting and conferring with Plaintiff’s counsel, Plaintiff did not agree to submit to a second examination with Dr. Brien.  Opposing Argument Plaintiff contends she already submitted to a DME with Dr. Grossman, who performed an examination of all areas complained of, including her right knee. Furthermore, Dr. Grossman’s report provides his diagnosis of the right knee. Plaintiff argues Defendant has not demonstrated good cause for a second DME, because the first DME is identical to the second DME and is within the same discipline.   Reply Argument Defendants, in reply, only assert that Plaintiff’s knee surgery and recommendation for spine surgery will not be performed by the same doctor, and therefore Defendants can establish “no better argument” for a DME.  II. Motion to Compel Second Physical Examination Except for defense physicals in personal injury cases (in which one examination is permitted as a matter of course) and exams arranged by stipulation, a court order is required for a physical or mental examination. Such order may be made only after notice and hearing, and for “good cause shown.”  (CCP §2032.320(a).)   The examination will be limited to whatever condition is “in controversy” in the action.  (CCP §2032.020(a).)  This means the examination must be directly related to the specific injury or condition that is the subject of the litigation.  (Roberts v. Superior Court (1973) 9 Cal.3d 330, 337.)  Often, a party's pleadings put his or her mental or physical condition in controversy ... as when a plaintiff claims continuing mental or physical injury resulting from defendant's acts: “A party who chooses to allege that he has mental and emotional difficulties can hardly deny his mental state is in controversy.”  (See Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 837 [wherein the plaintiff claimed ongoing emotional distress from sexual harassment by former employer].)  Discovery responses can also frame the issues regarding the injuries and damages alleged.   Where the plaintiff's injuries are complex, several exams may be necessary by specialists in different fields. There is no limit on the number of physical or mental exams that may be ordered on a showing of good cause.  The good cause requirement checks any potential harassment of the plaintiff.  (See Shapira v. Superior Court (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 1249, 1255.) The burden is on the moving party to show (by declarations or other evidence) that the examinee's condition is “in controversy” in the action.  The moving party must also establish good cause for the examination(s) sought.  A court order for physical or mental examination must be based on a showing of “good cause” (CCP § 2032.320(a)): (1) relevancy to the subject matter; and (2) specific facts justifying discovery: i.e., allegations showing the need for the information sought and lack of means for obtaining it elsewhere.  (Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.)  The purpose is to protect an examinee's privacy by preventing annoying “fishing expeditions” - i.e., one party may not compel another to undergo psychiatric testing “solely on the basis of speculation that something of interest may surface.”  (Id.) Pursuant to CCP § 2032.220, Defendants are entitled to one physical exam of Plaintiff.  Nonetheless, Defendants are seeking to compel a second DME with Dr. Brien for an exam of Plaintiff’s knee.  Plaintiff does not dispute she is alleging knee injury requiring surgery, in addition to back injury. A second DME is not necessarily duplicative on the sole basis of covering the same discipline. However, in this case, Defendants have not sufficiently demonstrated how the proposed orthopedic examination with Dr. Brien is substantially different from Plaintiff’s previous orthopedic examination with Dr. Grossman.  First, the DME notice with Dr. Grossman is identical to the notice for a second DME with Dr. Brien. Both DME notices provide: “The examination shall include, but not be limited to, taking of a complete medical history; evaluating movements and ranges of motion of Plaintiff’s cervical, thoracic, lumbar spine, and extremities and all nerves or neurological systems related to them.” (Def. Exh. 1 – Dr. Grossman, 2:13-15; Exh. 4 – Dr. Brien, 2:13-15.) Second, Dr. Grossman’s March 29, 2023 orthopedic examination report provides that, aside from an examination Plaintiff’s spine, Dr. Grossman also performed an examination of Plaintiff’s right knee, including a diagnosis and opinion of the treatment rendered to Plaintiff’s right knee. (Opp. Exh. 2.) Defendant does not establish good cause for the two physical exams, and does not properly establish how Dr. Brien’s examination of Plaintiff’s knee would substantially differ from Dr. Grossman’s examination to merit another physical examination regarding the same body part. Defendant’s contention that Plaintiff will have two different specialized providers, one for spine and the other for knee, and that therefore Defendant is entitled to the same, is not a sufficient basis for a second physical examination.  Based on the foregoing, the motion is DENIED. Because the motion is denied, the request for sanctions is similarly denied.   Moving Defendants are ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 8th day of November, 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   