  Case Number:  19STCV10899    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of California
County
 of Los Angeles
 



 
MAYNARD
  MATTHEWS, et al.;
 
                             Plaintiffs,
 
                              vs.
 
PATRICK
  RYAN;
 
                              Defendant(s).
 


Case No.  19STCV10899
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:  03/29/19
Judgment
  Entered:  10/10/23
 
 



 
Hearing Date:              February
21, 2023
Moving Party:             Plaintiffs
Maynard Matthews and Tanis Matthews
Responding Party:      Defendant Patrick Ryan
 
Motion for
Attorneys’ Fees Pursuant to CCP § 2033.420
 
The court considered the moving, opposition,
and reply papers.
The court DENIES
Plaintiffs’ motion for attorneys’ fees pursuant to CCP § 2033.420.
 
Background
This case
involves a motor vehicle accident. Plaintiffs Maynard Matthews and Tanis
Matthews filed this action on March 29, 2019 against defendant Patrick Ryan, alleging
causes of action for (1) Negligence; and (2) Loss of Consortium. The Complaint
alleges that plaintiff Maynard Matthews was operating a 2014 Mercedes E 350 on
August 3, 2018 on Zoo Drive, approximately 300 feet each of Griffith Park
Drive. (Compl., ¶ 8.) Defendant allegedly negligently operated a 2003 Mercedes
CLK430 so as to cause a collision with Plaintiff. (Id.)
This action went
to trial on August 7, 2023 and concluded on August 31, 2023. Judgment was
entered in favor of Plaintiffs and against Defendant on October 10, 2023.
Plaintiffs filed
this motion for attorneys’ fees pursuant to CCP § 2033.420 on October 25, 2023.
Defendant filed an opposition on November 9, 2023. Plaintiffs replied on
February 13, 2024.
 
Legal Standard
“As a general rule, the prevailing party
may recover certain statutory costs incurred in the litigation up to and
including entry of judgment. [Citations.] These costs may include attorney
fees, if authorized by contract, statute . . . or law. [Citation.] . . .
attorney fees require a separate noticed motion. [Citations.]” (Lucky United
Props. Inv., Inc. v. Lee (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 125, 137.) This motion may
be brought: (1) after judgment or dismissal, for fees incurred “up to and
including the rendition of judgment in the trial court--including attorney’s
fees on an appeal before the rendition of judgment…”; and (2) on an interim basis,
upon remittitur of appeal, of only fees incurred on appeal. (CRC, Rule 3.1702(b)-(c).)
In determining what fees are reasonable,
California courts apply the “lodestar” approach. (See, e.g., Holguin v. DISH
Network LLC (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 1310, 1332.) This inquiry “begins with
the ‘lodestar,’ i.e., the number of hours reasonably expended multiplied by the
reasonable hourly rate.” (See PLCM Group v. Drexler (2000) 22 Cal.4th
1084, 1095.) From there, the “[t]he lodestar figure may then be adjusted, based
on consideration of factors specific to the case, in order to fix the fee at
the fair market value for the legal services provided.” (Id.) Relevant factors
include: “(1) the novelty and difficulty of the questions involved, (2) the
skill displayed in presenting them, (3) the extent to which the nature of the litigation
precluded other employment by the attorneys, [and] (4) the contingent nature of
the fee award.” (Ketchum v. Moses (2001)
24 Cal.4th 1122, 1132.)
 
///
Discussion
Plaintiffs Maynard
Matthews and Tanis Matthews move for attorneys’ fees against defendant Patrick
Ryan in the total amount of $730,890 pursuant to CCP § 2033.420. Plaintiffs’
requested amount includes a lodestar figure of $360,445 with a multiplier of 2.
 
Entitlement to Attorneys’ Fees
Plaintiffs contend they are entitled to
attorneys’ fees under CCP § 2033.420 because they
incurred such fees due to Defendant’s refusal to admit Plaintiffs’ requests for
admission as to the issues of liability and damages. Namely, Defendant did not
admit he was negligent and caused the collision and that Plaintiffs were
thereby injured. Plaintiffs argue Defendant had no reasonable basis to believe
he would prevail on liability because Defendant hired an accident
reconstruction expert who said Defendant was solely at fault before the lawsuit
began. Plaintiffs assert Defendant even hired two additional accident
reconstruction experts to convince the jury he was not at fault, but the jury
did not find them credible. Plaintiffs maintain Defendant knew plaintiff Maynard
Matthews suffered a massive injury to his shoulder because Plaintiffs provided
pictures of the damaged vehicles, x-ray of the hardware placed in his shoulder,
and medical records detailing his injuries. Plaintiffs contend Defendant’s own
medical expert admitted the severity of Maynard Matthews’s injuries.
Defendant contends he reasonably denied
liability and that Plaintiffs’ arguments ignore: (1) the traffic collision reported
Maynard Matthews as the cause of the collision; (2) the majority of debris at
the collision site was in Defendant’s lane of travel; (3) two jurors strongly
believed Defendant was not at fault for the collision; (4) Defendant hired two
accident reconstruction experts who independently determined Maynard Matthews
was at fault for the collision; (5) Russell Gish, Ph.D.’s simulation included
multiple inputs that violated the laws of physics; and (6) Defendant never
retained or designated Dr. Gish. As to damages, Defendant argues he reasonably
denied the requests for admission because Ronald Kvitne, M.D. made an
unexpected change to his opinion in May 2023, several months after Defendant
responded to the discovery concerning causation and damages. Defendant asserts
Dr. Kvitne is a leading orthopedic surgeon in California and initially
determined Maynard Matthews’s injuries were minor and were resolved by August
2020.
CCP § 2033.420
states:
 
(a)  
If a party fails to admit the genuineness
of any document or the truth of any matter when requested to do so under this
chapter, and if the party requesting that admission thereafter proves the
genuineness of that document or the truth of that matter, the party requesting
the admission may move the court for an order requiring the party to whom the
request was directed to pay the reasonable expenses incurred in making that
proof, including reasonable attorney’s fees.
 
(b)  
The court shall make this order
unless it finds any of the following:
 
(1)  
An objection to the request was
sustained or a response to it was waived under Section 2033.290.
 
(2)  
The admission sought was of no
substantial importance.
 
(3)  
The party failing to make the
admission had reasonable ground to believe that that party would prevail on the
matter.
 
(4)  
There was other good reason for the
failure to admit.
 
“When a party propounds requests for
admission of the truth of certain facts and the responding party denies the
requests, if the propounding party proves the truth of those facts at trial, he
or she may seek an award of the reasonable costs and attorney fees incurred in
proving those facts. (§ 2033.420, subd. (a).)” (Grace v. Mansourian
(2015) 240 Cal.App.4th 523, 529.)
“In evaluating whether a ‘good reason’
exists for denying a request to admit, ‘a court may properly consider whether
at the time the denial was made the party making the denial held a reasonably
entertained good faith belief that the party would prevail on the issue at
trial.’ [Citation.]” (Id., emphasis added, quoting Laabs v. City of
Victorville (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1276.)
The court finds Plaintiffs fail to show they
are entitled to attorneys’ fees under CCP § 2033.420
because they do not sufficiently establish Defendant had no reasonable
ground to believe he would prevail on the issues of liability or damages.
As stated above, Plaintiffs must show Defendant did not hold a “reasonably
entertained good faith belief” of prevailing on the issues at trial. (See Grace, supra,
240 Cal.App.4th at 529.) 
 
a.     
Liability
As to the issue
of liability, Plaintiffs maintain Defendant should have known he would be found
at fault based on the first accident reconstruction expert he hired, Dr. Gish, and
on his own personal knowledge he was driving on the wrong side of the road.
However, Defendant never personally hired, retained, or designated Dr. Gish; it
was Defendant’s insurance that hired Dr. Gish prelitigation. (McClaugherty
Decl., ¶ 13.) Defendant’s counsel attests they never previously used Dr. Gish
as an expert and that he does not have a strong reputation in the personal
injury legal community when compared to the two experts Defendant personally
hired, Jon Landerville and Alvin Lowi. (Id. at ¶ 13.)
“Whether a party has a reasonable ground
to believe he or she will prevail, in the context of requests for admissions
heavily reliant on expert opinion evidence, will depend on factors within the
reasonable understanding of the party. Such factors may include whether the expert
has sufficient qualifications and experience to opine on the matter at issue,
whether the expert's opinions will likely be admissible at trial, whether the
facts underlying the expert’s opinions are supported by the evidence, whether
the expert’s methodology appears reasonable, and whether the expert’s analysis
is grounded in logic. A party cannot rely on a plainly unqualified expert, or a
sham opinion, to avoid cost of proof sanctions.” (Orange County Water Dist.
v. The Arnold Engineering Co. (2018) 31 Cal.App.5th 96, 117 (“Orange County
Water”).)
“[W]here RFAs require sophisticated
analyses of technical issues, courts are more willing to credit a party's
reasonable belief that it would prevail based on expert opinion evidence.
[Citation.] Courts in the past have been willing to find a party’s reliance on
expert opinion evidence unreasonable only where the expert opinion evidence
would be inadmissible at trial [citation] or where the expert opinion evidence
was fatally undermined by facts known to the party [citation]. Although those
circumstances are not exclusive, and a court may act within its discretion in
finding a party’s reliance unreasonable in other contexts, these authorities
illustrate the issues involved where courts consider expert opinion evidence
supporting an RFA denial.” (Orange County Water, supra, 31
Cal.App.5th at 120-21.)
Here, neither of Defendant’s two accident
reconstruction experts’ testimonies were inadmissible at trial. Plaintiffs fail
to show the two experts were not reputable or plainly unqualified and that
Defendant should have known so. Indeed, Defendant’s counsel attests the two
experts they ultimately retained had better reputations. Further, Defendant’s
counsel declares they relied on Landerville’s testimony that Dr. Gish’s
simulation puts Plaintiff’s vehicle pointing nearly 60 degrees in the air
before impact, an impossible angle affecting the accuracy of the entire
simulation. (McClaugherty Decl., ¶ 10.) Defendant also relied on Landerville’s testimony
that Dr. Gish’s simulation—which demonstrated Defendant’s vehicle entering a
steering input of 1,500 to 2,000 degrees a second just before impact—was
impossible. (Id. at ¶ 11.) Landerville reached his determination in part
by examining a still image from Dr. Gish’s simulation. (Id. at ¶ 12.)
While Defendant’s experts ultimately failed to persuade the jury, Plaintiffs do
not establish that it was entirely unreasonable for Defendant to rely on them
or that facts known to Defendant fatally undermined the expert opinion evidence.
Further, Defendant indicates that Officer
Keith Luong of the Los Angeles Police Department completed a traffic collision
report for the subject collision on August 3, 2018, which stated plaintiff Maynard
Matthews was the cause of the collision. (McClaugherty Decl., ¶ 2.) Luong’s
report stated that he determined the area of impact based off debris and skid
marks. (Id.) Luong testified in deposition that the majority of
collision debris was in Defendant’s lane of travel. (Id. at ¶ 5.)
In addition, Defendant’s counsel hired a
private investigator to interview jurors after the trial. (Id. at ¶ 7,
Exh. D.) The investigator’s report shows that, at first, two jurors strongly
opposed finding Defendant at fault and two were noncommittal. (Id., Exh.
D, p. 2.) One of the jurors who strongly opposed finding Defendant at fault was
replaced with an alternative who sided with Plaintiffs. (Id.) The two jurors
who were noncommittal subsequently sided with Plaintiffs, and the last strongly
opposed juror ultimately surrendered since she was not a strong personality. (Id.)
Plaintiffs correctly point out that Luong
testified in deposition that he is not trained in accident reconstruction and
had no opinion who caused the collision. (Douglass Decl., ¶ 3, Exh. I [Luong
Depo, 46:11-13, 56:9-16].) However, this does not change the fact that Luong
provided some statements in his report and deposition testimony that were
favorable for Defendant. As to the investigator’s report, Plaintiffs argue it
does not support Defendant’s position because the jurors eventually reached a unanimous
finding that Defendant was 100 percent liable. But, this does not refute the
fact that the report shows the issue was not necessarily obvious to the jurors
despite the unanimous decision. Plaintiffs’ arguments here ultimately go to the
merits of their case, not whether Defendant reasonably
entertained a good faith belief of prevailing at trial.
 
///
///
b.    
Damages
As to the issue of damages, Plaintiffs
assert Defendant’s own medical expert admitted the severity of Maynard Matthews’s
injuries. However, Defendant’s retained expert, Ronald Kvitne, M.D., initially opined
that Plaintiff’s injuries were minor at the time Defendant responded to Plaintiffs’
requests for admission. (See McClaugherty Decl., ¶ 14.) Dr. Kvitne conducted Maynard
Matthews’s medical examination on August 18, 2020, then issued a report stating:
(1) Maynard Matthews sustained a right humeral head fracture, right hand
abrasion and mild cervical strain; (2) Maynard Matthews’s right shoulder pain
would be minimized after 12 weeks of physical therapy; and (3) Maynard Matthews
was not a candidate for future surgery. (Id., Exh. G.)
It was only much later on May 22, 2023
that Dr. Kvitne completely changed his opinion, stating: (1) Maynard Matthews
developed avascular necrosis; (2) Maynard Matthews is a candidate for future
shoulder surgery; and (3) Maynard Matthews would have pain until he received
left shoulder surgery. (Id. at ¶ 15, Exh. H.) Defendant’s counsel attests
they sent all available medical records to Dr. Kvitne as soon as the records
were available. (Id. at ¶ 16.) Defendant’s counsel declares they had no
indication of Dr. Kvitne’s new opinions before May 2023. (Id.)
Thus, Defendant shows he reasonably
entertained a good faith belief that Plaintiff’s injuries were only minor due
to Defendant’s expert’s initial report. As mentioned earlier, “[i]n evaluating
whether a ‘good reason’ exists for denying a request to admit, ‘a court may
properly consider whether at the time the denial was made the
party making the denial held a reasonably entertained good faith belief . . . .”
(See Grace, supra, 240 Cal.App.4th at 529, emphasis added.) Here,
it was only much later, long after Defendant’s response to the requests for
admission, that Dr. Kvitne entirely changed his opinion and blindsided
Defendant. Plaintiffs provide no evidence that Defendant unreasonably relied
upon Dr. Kvitne’s initial report. Plaintiffs argue Defendant also denied that plaintiff
Tanis Matthews suffered loss of consortium. But, it was not unreasonable for
Defendant to deny such damages if Defendant reasonably believed Maynard
Matthews’s injuries were only minor.
 
c.     
Conclusion
Accordingly, the
court finds Plaintiffs are not entitled to attorneys’ fees under CCP §
2033.420 because they fail to sufficiently show Defendant did not hold a “reasonably
entertained good faith belief” of prevailing on the issues at trial when he
answered the requests for admission. The standard under CCP §
2033.420 is obviously very high. Plaintiffs’ arguments and evidence here
largely go to the merits of their case, not to Defendant’s good faith belief.
For these reasons, Plaintiffs’ motion must be denied.
 
Reasonableness of Attorneys’ Fees
The court does not need to reach a
finding on the reasonableness of the attorneys’ fees requested since it has
found Plaintiffs are not entitled to such fees.
 
Based on the
foregoing, the
court DENIES Plaintiffs’ motion for attorneys’
fees pursuant to CCP § 2033.420.
 
It is so
ordered.
 
Dated:
February 21, 2024
 
_______________________
ROLF M. TREU
Judge of the Superior
Court