 Case Number:  22STCV32406    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 



TIMOTHY H DUPLER, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
RON REITSHTEIN, et
  al.,
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


 22STCV32406




Hearing Date:


April 23, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
MOTION TO JOIN
  BARBARA J YOUNGMAN PURSUANT TO CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE
  379 AND STATE BAR SECURITY RULE 3.158




            
Background
On October 4, 2022,
Plaintiff Timothy H Dupler (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants
Ron Reitshtein and Youngman Reitshtein, PLC (jointly, “Defendants”) 
On March 28, 2023,
Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). The FAC alleges
causes of action for (1) professional negligence, (2) breach of fiduciary duty,

(3) intentional misrepresentation, and
(4) negligent misrepresentation.
            In
the FAC, Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, that “Plaintiff was the
Petitioner in a divorce action occurring in Torrance Superior Court Family Law
section under Case number: YD068909. Respondent in the case filed a Civil Suit
in response to the divorce filing in Torrance Superior Court YC7072678 and received
a default judgement as Plaintiff was unaware of the dual filings. As a result
of the nature of the proceedings, Plaintiff (Petitioner in the original case)
contracted the services of Family Law attorney, Ron Reitshtein…” (FAC, ¶ 8.) Plaintiff
alleges that “Mr Reitshtein properly filed a Motion to Set Aside the Default
Judgement and Join an improperly filed Civil Case: YC072678 case to the
YD068909 Family Law Case. However; according to the Court and the records are
undisputed, Mr Reitshtein failed to take the next step of filing the Motion to
Set Aside/Joinder Motion in the Family Law Court. This, according to the Court,
caused the Set Aside to lapse and the Default on the Civil case to take effect
meaning all damages claimed in the Civil case were from that point forward,
legally liable and collectible damages against Petitioner/Plaintiff…” (FAC, ¶
9.) 
Plaintiff now moves “to
[j]oin Barbara J Youngman as a necessary party to this case as a
Partner/Shareholder to Youngman Reitshtein, PLC and Ron Reitshtein.” Defendants
oppose. 
Discussion 
Plaintiff
cites to Code of Civil Procedure section 379 in support of
the motion, which provides as follows: 
 
“(a) All persons may be
joined in one action as defendants if there is asserted against them:
 
(1) Any right to relief
jointly, severally, or in the alternative, in respect of or arising out of the
same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences and if
any question of law or fact common to all these persons will arise in the action;
or
 
(2) A claim, right, or
interest adverse to them in the property or controversy which is the subject of
the action.
 
(b) It is not necessary
that each defendant be interested as to every cause of action or as to all
relief prayed for. Judgment may be given against one or more defendants
according to their respective liabilities.
 
(c) Where the plaintiff
is in doubt as to the person from whom he or she is entitled to redress, he or
she may join two or more defendants, with the intent that the question as to
which, if any, of the defendants is liable, and to what extent, may be
determined between the parties.” 
As
discussed, Plaintiff seeks to “[j]oin Barbara J Youngman as a necessary party
to this case…” (Mot. at p. 1:17-18.) Plaintiff argues that “Ms. Youngman is a
Senior Partner of Yougman [sic] Reitshteain [sic], PLC,” and that “as founder
and Senior Attorney for the firm, Ms. Youngman would have at least 50%
authority to determine the insurance limits to cover both the firm and Attorney
Ron Reitshtein…” (Mot. at p. 2:19; 2:23-26.) The Court notes that Plaintiff
does not provide any evidence to support such assertions. In addition,
Plaintiff does not appear to provide any argument as to why Code of Civil
Procedure section 379 purportedly
authorizes the Court to join
Barbara J Youngman as a party to this case. 
Further,
as noted by Defendants, Plaintiff does not provide “any argument or
evidence that Ms. Youngman was personally involved in the handling of the
underlying Civil or Family Law Actions or that Ms. Youngman’s own acts or
omissions caused Plaintiff any damages.” (Opp’n at p. 3:8-10, emphasis
omitted.) In her declaration in support of the opposition, Barbara Youngman
states that “I have not had any personal involvement with the Plaintiff and was
not involved in any way in the defense of either the underlying civil action
entitled Lisa McCullough v. Timothy Haskell Dupler, with Torrance
Superior Court Case No. YC072678 or family law action entitled Timothy
Haskell Dupler v. Lisa Louise McCullough-Dupler with Torrance Superior
Court Case No. YD068909, that are the subject of this case. I only
learned of the case after the fact when Plaintiff sued my colleague Ron
Reitshtein and our law firm.” (Youngman Decl., ¶ 3.) 
Plaintiff
also cites to “California State Bar Rule
3.158.” (Mot. at p. 3:7.) Rule
3.158(A)(1) of the Rules of the State Bar provide that “[e]ach law
corporation must provide the State Bar with proof of security for claims for
errors and omissions of the corporation or any person who practices law on
behalf of the corporation, on its behalf as an employee or otherwise. The law
corporation must provide proof of security with its Application to Register as
a Law Corporation and provide new proof of security when that last provided is
no longer current. Proof of security must be provided as indicated below. (1)
All law corporations, except as otherwise provided in this rule, must provide a
Law Corporation Guarantee providing that the shareholders jointly and severally
agree to pay all claims established against the law corporation for errors and
omissions arising out of the rendering of professional services. The guarantee
must name each shareholder and be executed by each.” 
Plaintiff contends that “[a]s such, Ms.
Youngman and any other shareholders of the PLC by law, have agreed to joint and
severable liability for Ron Reitshtein’s acts and omissions in Family law case
YD068909 and the related Civil Case YC072678 as all work was done at Youngman
Reitshtein, PLC law offices utilizing the joined staff…” (Mot. at p. 4:1-5.) The
Court notes that Plaintiff does not provide evidence in support of this
assertion. As noted by Defendants, “Plaintiff has not provided any facts what
would support Ms. Youngman being added to this case.” (Opp’n at p. 8:6.) In
addition, it is unclear how Rule
3.158(A)(1) of the Rules of the State Bar authorizes the Court to join Ms.
Youngman to the instant action. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court does not
find that Plaintiff has demonstrated grounds to “[j]oin Barbara J Youngman as a
necessary party to this case.” (Mot. at p. 1:17-18.) 
Conclusion
Based on the
foregoing, the Court denies Plaintiff’s motion. 
Defendants are ordered to give notice of this Order. 
 
DATED:  April 23, 2024                                ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court