 Case Number:  23SMCV02259    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  205 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205   CHRISTINA HWA,   Plaintiff, v.  MCDONALD’S RESTAURANT OF CALIFORNIA, INC., et al.,   Defendants.    Case No.:  23SMCV02259     Hearing Date:  March 19, 2024      [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:   PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL    DEFENDANTS’ FURTHER RESPONSES    TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF    DOCUMENTS (SET TWO)    BACKGROUND  This is a personal injury case.  Plaintiff Christina Hwa ordered hot coffee from Defendant McDonald’s Restaurant of California, Inc.  Plaintiff claims the lid was not safely and properly secured, causing the hot coffee to pour onto her lap and thighs.  As a result, she claims she suffered second and third-degree burns across her thighs.  The operative complaint alleges a single claim for negligence. On June 15, 2023, Plaintiff served Defendants with requests for production of documents (set two) (“RFPD’s).  RFPD No. 3 requires production of all documents evidencing Defendant’s policies, procedures, guidelines, training materials and safety rules for the service of hot beverages in effect any time between January 1, 2014 and the present.  RFPD Nos. 10-11 requires disclosure of documents that contained information about complaints of injury caused by hot liquid at the specific McDonalds where Plaintiff bought her coffee, as well as any of the other McDonald’s restaurants operated by Defendant, at any time from January 1, 2014 to present. In response to RFPD No. 3, Defendant objected that the request was “vague, ambiguous, overbroad, burdensome and oppressive,” and called for production of documents that are “confidential and proprietary in nature.”  Defendant further responded that it will produce “relevant portions” of responsive documents “subject to plaintiff showing good cause and stipulating to a protective order.”   In response to RFPD No. 10, Defendant objected that the request is “vague, ambiguous, overbroad, burdensome and oppressive,” is not limited to a reasonable time and scope and is thus “not likely to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”     In response to RFPD No. 11, Defendant again objected that the request is vague, ambiguous, overbroad, burdensome and oppressive, as well as objecting that the request sought “privileged and confidential documents.”   This hearing is on Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant McDonald’s Restaurant of California Inc.’s further responses to the RFPD’s.  Plaintiff argues that the documents sought are highly relevant; the Court may disregard Defendant’s boilerplate objections on a motion to compel; and there can be no viable, continuing objection on confidentiality or trade secret grounds where the parties have stipulated to a protective order.  DISCUSSION RFPD No. 3 seeks disclosure of documents containing Defendant’s policies, procedures, guidelines, training materials and safety rules for service of hot beverages from January 1, 2014 to the present.  The Court agrees with Plaintiff that this request seeks clearly relevant documents.  Defendant’s policies about the handling of hot beverages is material to Plaintiff’s claim that Defendant was negligent in the handling of her hot coffee.   Defendant does not dispute that the documents are relevant.  It only argues that it should be able to redact irrelevant portions of the documents including recipes for food items, ingredients and preparation of cold beverages, food storage, maintenance of certain machines (soda fountains, ovens, McFlurry machines) and the like.  Defendant claims this information is confidential.  However, given the parties have a stipulated protective order, there is no reason for Defendant’s redactions.   Defendant also offered Plaintiff to review the unredacted documents on a Zoom call.  But this suggestion is unworkable.  A party should not be given limited access to clearly relevant documents.  Plaintiff is entitled to review and reflect on relevant documents at his own pace and with no time limits.   Accordingly, the Court orders Defendant to re-produce the documents responsive to RFPD No. 3 in an unredacted form.   As to RFPD Nos. 10-11, they seek documents regarding other incidents similar to the one here.  Again, the Court agrees the RFPDs seek clearly relevant documents.  Evidence of prior¿similar incidents is relevant, reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, and may demonstrate “the extent of the risk which should have been foreseen and guarded against.”¿ (Morfin v. State of California (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 812, 817.)  It may also reveal a common factor contributing to the accidents.  (Davies v. Superior Court (1984) 36 Cal.3d 291, 301.) However, the Court agrees with Defendants that the RFPDs are overbroad, although the Court disagrees with Defendant’s limitations.  Defendant seeks to limit the scope of the RFPDs not only by location (only the McDonald’s at issue) but also by time (only two years prior to the subject incident).  These limitations are too narrow.   The request for all complaints in the past 10 years seek irrelevant information.  The time frame will encompass incidents too remote in time to qualify as substantially similar.  There is, therefore, good cause to limit the scope of the discovery requests to the past five years. Also, Plaintiff purchased her coffee from a single location operated and managed by Defendant.  However, given Plaintiff’s allegation that it was adherence to the method of preparation mandated of all franchisees, to the extent the discovery requests encompass burn complaints against any other franchisees, they seek relevant information regarding substantially similar prior incidents.  Defendant fails to demonstrate that good cause exists to limit the discovery requests to a certain geographic region.   Defendant also argues that these RFPDs would capture incident reports which were prepared in anticipation of litigation and are protected from discovery by reason of the attorney client privilege.  The Court does not have sufficient facts to conclude whether the incident reports are privileged.  To the extent they are, Defendant may properly claim privilege, and this Order does not decide whether that claim is proper. Defendant also argues that these requests create an undue burden.  But Defendant fails to meet its burden to show that the requested production is unduly burdensome.  Undue burden objections must be accompanied by a specific factual showing setting forth the amount of work necessary to respond to the subject discovery.  (West Pico Furniture Co. v. Superior Court¿(1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417-418.)  Defendant failed to make the requisite showing.  ¿    CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS IN PART and DENIES IN PART Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to her requests for production of documents (set two).   Defendant is directed to produce documents responsive to RFPD No. 1 in an unredacted form.  Defendant is also directed to produce documents responsive to RFPD Nos. 11-13, limited to the past five years.     IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED: March 19, 2024    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 