 Case Number:  22STCV10531    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:      October 4, 2023                                            TRIAL DATE:  March 26,
2024
                                                           
CASE:                                Eva Aguirre v. Evans Community Adult School, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV10531
 





















 
MOTION
TO COMPEL THE DEPOSITION OF PLAINTIFF EVA AGUIRRE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Los Angeles Unified School District
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On March 28, 2022, Plaintiff, Eva Aguirre, initiated this
action against Defendants, Evans Community Adult School and Los Angeles Unified
School District (“LAUSD”), for injuries arising from a slip and fall in the
restroom of the Evans Community Adult School.¿  
  
On September 7, 2023, LAUSD filed this motion to compel
Plaintiff to appear at deposition.  LAUSD
requests sanctions.   
 
The motion is unopposed.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD TO COMPEL DEPOSITION 
            Any party may obtain discovery by
taking in California the oral deposition of any person.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.010.)¿ “If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action…without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to
appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)¿¿¿
            Monetary Sanctions
            “If a motion under [Code of Civil
Procedure section 2025.450] subdivision (a) is granted, the court shall impose
a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor
of the party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party
with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)¿¿¿¿¿ 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
On March 16,
2023, LAUSD noticed Plaintiff’s deposition for April 4, 2023.  Thereafter, Defense counsel attempted to meet
and confer with Plaintiff’s counsel regarding the upcoming deposition and the
status of other outstanding discovery. 
On March 31, 2023, Defense counsel emailed Plaintiff’s counsel to
confirm Plaintiff’s attendance at the deposition.  Plaintiff’s counsel untimely objected via
email due to unavailability.  However,
despite representing he would do so, Plaintiff’s counsel failed to provide a
copy of written objections to the deposition or alternative dates for the
deposition.  Defendant noticed
Plaintiff’s deposition once more for July 10, 2023.  Plaintiff’s counsel again interposed an
untimely objection based on unavailability. 
Plaintiff did not appear at the July 10, 2023 deposition date and
Plaintiff’s non-appearance was taken by the court reporter.  (See Haddad Decl.)  
 
LAUSD properly noticed Plaintiff’s
deposition on two occasions and Plaintiff failed to appear.  Accordingly, LAUSD’s motion to compel is
GRANTED.¿ 
 
Monetary Sanctions
 
LAUSD requests sanctions against Plaintiff
and her counsel.  Given that the Court
has granted this motion and Plaintiff’s counsel’s conduct is unjustified, sanctions
are warranted against Plaintiff and her counsel.  Accordingly, sanctions are imposed against
Plaintiff and her counsel in the sum of $1,752, consisting of 2 hours at
defense counsel’s hourly rate and $1,512 for deposition costs.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
The motion is granted.  Plaintiff Eva Aguirre is
ordered to appear for deposition within 10 days of this order.
 
The request for sanctions is granted.  Plaintiff and her counsel of record are
ordered to pay, jointly and severally, sanctions in the sum of $1,752 to
Defendant LAUSD, by and through its counsel, within 30 days of this order.
            
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   October 4, 2023                                                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 