  Case Number:  20STCV24031    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:      October 4, 2023                                            TRIAL DATE:  June 11,
2024
                                                           
CASE:                                Deborah D. Jackson v. Joseph Ward, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 20STCV24031
 





















 
MOTION
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES 
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS
 
MOTION
TO DEEM REQUEST FOR ADMISSIONS ADMITTED



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Joseph Ward
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On February 27, 2023, Defendant, Joseph Ward, filed these
motions to compel Plaintiff, Deborah D.
Jackson, to provide responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special
Interrogatories, Set One, and Request for Production of Documents, Set One, and
to deem the Request for Admissions, Set One, admitted against Plaintiff.  Defendant seeks sanctions against Plaintiff
and her counsel. 
 
The motions are unopposed.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARDS TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO
DISCOVERY
 
If a party to
whom interrogatories and inspection demands were directed fails to serve a
timely response, the propounding party may move for an order to compel
responses without objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (b),
2031.300, subd. (b).)  If a party to whom requests for admission are
directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for
an order that the truth of the matters specified in the requests be deemed
admitted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)¿ Moreover, failure to
timely serve responses waives objections to the requests.  (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (a), 2031.300, subd. (a), 2033.280, subd. (a).)   
 
Monetary Sanctions 
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 2023.030 is a general statute authorizing the Court to impose
discovery sanctions for “misuse of the discovery process,” which includes
(without limitation) a variety of conduct such as: making, without substantial
justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an evasive
response to discovery; and unsuccessfully and without substantial justification
making or opposing a motion to compel or limit discovery.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2023.010.)  
 
If sanctions are
sought, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.040 requires that the notice
specify the identity of the person against whom sanctions are sought and the
type of sanction requested, that the motion be supported in the points and
authorities, and the facts be set forth in a declaration supporting the amount
of any monetary sanction. 
 
If the court finds that a party has unsuccessfully made
or opposed a motion to compel responses to interrogatories or inspection
demands, the court “shall impose a monetary sanction . . . unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (c),
2031.300, subd. (c).)  In the context of a motion to deem requests
for admission admitted, it is mandatory that the court impose monetary
sanctions on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely
response to the request necessitated the motion.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.280, subd. (c).)
 
Sanctions against
counsel:¿ The court in Kwan Software Engineering, Inc. v. Hennings
(2020) 58 Cal.App.5th 57, 81 (Hennings) noted that discovery sanctions
against an attorney are governed by a different standard than sanctions against
a party:¿¿¿ 
 
By
the terms of the statute, a trial court under section 2023.030(a) may not
impose monetary sanctions against a party's attorney unless the court finds
that the attorney “advised” the party to engage in the conduct resulting in
sanctions. (§ 2023.030(a); Ghanooni v. Super Shuttle (1993) 20
Cal.App.4th 256, 261, 24 Cal.Rptr.2d 501.)¿ “Unlike monetary sanctions against
a party, which are based on the party's misuse of the discovery process,
monetary sanctions against the party's attorney require a finding the ‘attorney
advis[ed] that conduct.’ ” (Ibid.) “It is not enough that the attorney's
actions were in some way improper.” (Corns v. Miller (1986) 181
Cal.App.3d 195, 200, 226 Cal.Rptr. 247 (Corns).) Because an attorney's
advice to a client is “peculiarly within [his or her] knowledge,” the attorney
has the burden of showing that he or she did not counsel discovery abuse. (Ibid.)
Accordingly, when a party seeking sanctions against an attorney offers
sufficient evidence of a misuse of the discovery process, the burden shifts to
the attorney to demonstrate that he or she did not recommend that conduct. (Id.
at pp. 200–201, 226 Cal.Rptr. 247; Ghanooni, at p. 262, 24 Cal.Rptr.2d
501.)
 
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
Defendant served
Plaintiff with the at-issue discovery requests on December 23, 2022.  Defendant granted Plaintiff an extension to provide
responses.  However, to date, Plaintiff
has not provided responses.  (See Johnson Decls.) 
Therefore, all objections to the interrogatories and requests for production
are waived.  
 
As Defendant
properly served the discovery requests and Plaintiff failed to serve responses,
the Court finds Defendant is entitled to an order directing Plaintiff to
provide responses to Set One of Plaintiff’s
Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Request for Production of
Documents.¿ In addition, Defendant is entitled to an order deeming admitted
Request for Admissions, Set One, against Plaintiff.  Accordingly, the motions are
GRANTED.
 
Monetary
Sanctions
            Defendant requests sanctions against Plaintiff and his
counsel.  Given that the Court has
granted these motions, sanctions are warranted.  Indeed, in the context of requests for
admission, sanctions are mandatory.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)  Pursuant to Hennings,
supra, imposition of monetary sanctions against counsel is also proper
unless counsel shows that he or she did not counsel the discovery abuse.¿ (Hennings,
58 Cal.App.5th at p. 81.)¿  Plaintiff’s counsel does not meet their
burden.  Accordingly, sanctions
are imposed against Plaintiff and her counsel in the amount of $840
representing 4 hours at defense counsel’s hourly rate and $240 in filing fees.
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
The motions are granted.  
 
Plaintiff Deborah D. Jackson is ordered to provide verified,
objection-free responses to Set One of Defendant’s Form Interrogatories,
Special Interrogatories, and Request for Production of Documents.  Defendant’s
Request for Admissions, Set One,
are deemed admitted against Plaintiff.
            
The request for sanctions is granted.  Plaintiff and her counsel are ordered to pay,
jointly and severally, sanctions in the amount of $840, to be paid to Defendant,
by and through his counsel.
 
Discovery responses are to be provided and sanctions are to
be paid within 30 days of this order.  
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
Dated:   October 4, 2023                                                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 