 Case Number:  22STCV23959    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
4, 2023                                 TRIAL
DATE:  January 22, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                                Wilson Villalta Gutierrez, et al. v. Jose Mendoza
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV23959
 





















 
MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO AMEND CROSS-COMPLAINT



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Jose Mendoza
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION

 
On July 25, 2022, Plaintiffs, Wilson Villalta Gutierrez, and
Jeffrey Gomez, a minor, by and through his Guardian Ad Litem, Marta Elizabeth
Gutierrez Aparacio, initiated this action against Defendant, Jose Mendoza, for injuries
arising from a motor vehicle accident.  Defendant
filed an Answer to the Complaint on November 28, 2022.
 
On December 14, 2022, Defendant filed a cross-complaint
against Wilson Villalta Gutierrez for apportionment and partial indemnity.  
 
On August 30, 2023, Defendant filed this motion for leave to
amend his cross-complaint to add Marta Elizabeth Gutierrez Aparacio as a
cross-defendant.
 
The motion is unopposed.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD 
 
            The court
may, in its discretion and after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading, including adding or
striking out the name of any party, or correcting a mistake in the name of a
party, or a mistake in any other respect.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd.
(a)(1).)¿ “Public policy dictates that leave to amend be liberally granted.”¿ (Centex
Homes v. St. Paul Fire & Marine Ins. Co. (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 23,
32.)¿ “Although courts are bound to apply a policy of great liberality in
permitting amendments to the complaint at any stage of the proceedings, up to
and including trial . . . this policy should be applied only ‘where no
prejudice is shown to the adverse party.’¿ [Citation].¿ A different result is
indicated ‘where inexcusable delay and probable prejudice to the opposing
party’ is shown.¿ [Citation.]” ¿(Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996)
48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.)¿ 
 
            A motion to
amend a pleading must include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended
pleading which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous
pleadings or amendments and must state what allegations in the previous
pleading are proposed to be deleted or added, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph, and line number, the allegations are located. (Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1324, subd. (a).)¿ The motion shall also be accompanied by a declaration
attesting to the effect of the amendment, why the amendment is necessary and
proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered,
and why the request for amendment was not made earlier.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 1.324, subd. (b).)¿ 
 
            In ruling
on a motion for leave to amend a pleading, the court does not consider the
merits of the proposed amendment, because “the preferable practice would be to
permit the amendment and allow the parties to test its legal sufficiency by
demurrer, motion for judgment on the pleadings or other appropriate
proceedings.”¿ (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213
Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.)¿ While the court may deny leave to amend where the
proposed amendment is insufficient to state a valid cause of action or defense,
such denial is most appropriate where the insufficiency cannot be cured by
further amendment—i.e., where the statute of limitations has expired or the
insufficiency is established by controlling caselaw. (California Casualty
Gen. Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 280-281,
disapproved on other grounds in Kransco v. American Empire Surplus Lines
Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390.)¿ 
 
III.       APPLICATION
 
Defendant seeks leave to file his proposed First Amended
Cross-Complaint which adds Plaintiffs’ mother, Marta Elizabeth Gutierrez
Aparacio as Roe 1.  On June 28, 2023, the
proposed cross-defendant testified at deposition stating that she allowed
Wilson Villalta Gutierrez Aparicio, a minor at the time of the incident, to
drive her vehicle while knowing he was unlicensed.  As such, Defendant argues proposed
cross-defendant is a necessary party to this action.  Soon after learning of this information,
defense counsel reserved the first hearing date available for this motion. 

 
The motion complies with the requirements of California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1342, subdivision (a).  Further, as the motion is unopposed, the Court
finds no prejudice will result if leave is granted to file the proposed First
Amended Cross-Complaint.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
            The motion
is GRANTED.  Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Jose Mendoza is ordered to file and serve the proposed First Amended
Cross-Complaint within 5 court days of this order.
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   October 4, 2023                                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 
 
 