  Case Number:  23STCV15799    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Wednesday, January 17, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   23STCV15799
CASE NAME:                        William R. Welch v. Dalia Auto Plaza, Inc. 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Dalia Auto Plaza,
Inc. 
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiff William R. Welch
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Motion to Compel Arbitration
and Stay Action
OPPOSITION:                        27 December 2023
REPLY:                                  8
January 2023
 
TENTATIVE:                         Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is
granted in part as to the second through sixth cause of action and denied as to
the first cause of action. The action is stayed pending arbitration.

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
On July 7, 2023, William R.
Welch (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Dalia Auto Paza, Inc. dba Diamond
Buick GMC Cadillac Palmdale (“Defendant”) and Does 1 to 15. 
 
The operative First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”) alleges six causes of action: (1) Violation of California’s
Consumer Legal Remedies Act; (2) Financial Elder Abuse; (3) Fraud/Concealment;
(4) Negligence; (5) Violation and Injunctive Relief pursuant to Bus. &
Prof. Code § 17200; and (6) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress. 
 
The Complaint alleges that on
March 20, 2023, Plaintiff went to Defendant for an oil change for his Corvette
and decided to test drive a 2023 Sierra Denali heavy duty 2500, black truck
with VIN No. 1GT49REY4PF238032. (FAC ¶ 14.) Plaintiff did not test-drive any
other vehicles that day. (FAC ¶ 14.) Plaintiff negotiated a deal with Salesman
Michael Cofield, wherein Plaintiff would trade in his 100% owned Corvette. (FAC
¶ 15.) “The negotiated deal was for $48,000 with a $41,000.00 trade-in down
payment from Plaintiff’s 100% owned Corvette with an interest rate of 10%. The
negotiated deal included a promise from the DEALER to send Plaintiff $7,000 the
difference between the negotiated price of the 2023 Sierra Denali VIN
1GT49REY4PF238032 minus the trade-in value of Plaintiff’s 100% owned Corvette
within 3 to 7 days.” (FAC ¶ 15.) 
 
Despite receiving the 2023
Sierra Denali and turning in the pink slip for his Corvette to the dealership,
on April 24, 2023, Plaintiff was informed that the sales contract had the wrong
VIN. (FAC ¶ 19.)  The dealership demanded
the return of the Plaintiff’s new vehicle and even reported the vehicle stolen.
(FAC ¶¶ 19, 20, 26, 28.) 
 
Plaintiff alleges that the VIN
in the sales contract was switched without his knowledge and that he would not
have traded in his Corvette, which he owned free and clear, for any vehicle
other than the one he test-drove. (FAC ¶¶ 23, 30.) Plaintiff asserts that
Defendant misrepresented the condition, characteristics, and price surrounding
the vehicle and the correct course of action would be for Defendant to correct
the VIN in Plaintiff’s sale contract rather than force Plaintiff into a smaller
and different truck that he neither negotiated for nor intended to purchase.
(FAC ¶¶ 30, 31.) 
 
On November 15, 2023, Defendant
filed a Motion to Compel Arbitration and stay the action pursuant to the
arbitration clause in the sales contract. Plaintiff opposes the motion. The
matter is now before the court. 
 
motion to
compel arbitration and stay action 
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
Parties may be compelled to arbitrate a dispute upon the
court finding that: (1) there was a valid agreement to arbitrate between the
parties; and (2) said agreement covers the controversy or controversies in the
parties’ dispute.¿(CCP § 1281.2; Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004)¿118
Cal.App.4th 955, 961.)¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
A party petitioning to compel arbitration has the burden of
establishing the existence of a valid agreement to arbitrate and the party
opposing the petition has the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the
evidence, any fact necessary to its defense. (Banner Entertainment, Inc. v.
Superior Court¿(1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356-57.)¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
“If a court of competent jurisdiction, whether in this
State or not, has ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an issue
involved in an action or proceeding pending before a court of this State, the
court in which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a
party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an
arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such
earlier time as the court specifies.” (CCP § 1281.4.
 
II.        Discussion
 
            A.        Existence of an Agreement to Arbitrate
 
Defendant moves to
stay the action and compel arbitration based on the
“Retail Installment Sale Contract –
Simple Finance Charge (With Arbitration Provision)” (hereinafter the “Agreement”) that
Plaintiff signed for a new 2023 GMC Sierra 2500HD truck with VIN
1GT49PEYXPF245040. (Mohammed Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. A [emphasis original].)
 
On the bottom of page 1 of the
agreement, it states: 
 
Agreement to Arbitrate: By signing below, you agree to the Arbitration Provision on page 5
of this contract, you or we may elect to resolve any dispute by neutral,
binding arbitration and not by a court action. See the Arbitration Provision
for additional information concerning the agreement to arbitrate.
 
(Mohammed Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. A at
p. 1 of 6.) The Plaintiff’s electronic signature follows this statement. (Ibid.)

 
The arbitration provision
states in relevant part: 
 
Any claim or dispute, whether in contract,
tort, statute or otherwise (including the interpretation and scope of this
Arbitration Provision, any allegation of waiver of rights under this
Arbitration Provision, and the arbitrability of the claim or dispute), between
you and us . . . which arises out of or relates to your credit application,
purchase or condition of this Vehicle, this contract or any resulting
transaction or relationship . . . shall at your or our election, be resolved by
neutral, binding arbitration and not by court action. . . The arbitrator may
not preside over a consolidated, representative, class, collective, injunctive,
or private attorney general action . . . Any arbitration under this Arbitration
Provision shall be governed by the Federal Arbitration Act (9 U.S.C. §§ 1 et
seq.) and not by any state law concerning arbitration…between you and us… which
arises out of or relates to your credit application, purchase or condition of
this Vehicle, this contract or any resulting transaction or relationship…shall,
at your or our election, be resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by
a court action. . . This Arbitration Provision shall survive any termination,
payoff or transfer of this contract. If any part of this Arbitration Provision,
other than waivers of class rights, is deemed or found to be unenforceable for
any reason, the remainder shall remain enforceable. You agree that you
expressly waive any right you may have for a claim or dispute to be resolved on
a class basis in court or in arbitration. If a court or arbitrator finds that
this class arbitration waiver is unenforceable for any reason with respect to a
claim or dispute in which class allegations have been made, the rest of this
Arbitration Provision shall also be unenforceable.
 
(Mohammed Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. A at
p. 5 of 6.) 
 
Plaintiff does not dispute that
he signed the Agreement or that the agreement is not governed by the FAA. Rather,
he challenges the validity of the Agreement on the grounds that: (1) Defendant
committed fraud in the inducement and execution of the Agreement; (2) the
Consumer Legal Remedies Act makes Defendant’s arbitration provision
unenforceable; (3) Defendant waived the right to arbitration by filing a stolen
vehicle police report; (4) Plaintiff is seeking injunctive relief such that the
action is not arbitrable; and (5) the arbitration agreement is both
procedurally and substantively unconscionable. 
 
B.        Defendant
Has Waived Right to Assert that a Delegation Clause Exists
 
“[C]hallenges to
the validity of the arbitration clause itself
are generally resolved by the court in the first instance. [Citations.] An exception to this rule applies when the
parties have clearly and unmistakably agreed to delegate questions regarding
the validity of the arbitration clause to the arbitrator.” (Nielsen Contracting, Inc. v. Applied Underwriters, Inc. (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 1096, 1108.) 
 
Defendant’s moving papers fail to
reference or argue that a valid delegation clause exists that leaves to the
arbitrator issues regarding the arbitrability and enforceability of the
Agreement.  
 
Unlike the parties who moved to compel
arbitration in Rent-A-Center, Ajamian, and Tiri, Employers did
not raise the delegation clause in their moving papers. As noted, they first
raised it in their reply papers in a cursory manner buried under an argument
heading about the class action waiver. Their argument consisted of a short
paragraph that cites Rent-A-Center. The point is otherwise undeveloped
and could easily be overlooked or considered part of their argument on the
class action waiver. On this record, the trial court may have impliedly found
that Employers forfeited any argument regarding the delegation clause by
failing to adequately brief it in their motions. Moreover, we conclude that
Employers' briefing in the trial court was insufficient to preserve the issue
for appeal.


(Mendoza v. Trans
Valley Transport (2022) 75 Cal.App.5th 748, 770.) 
 
The court finds that the
Defendant has waived any right to argue that a delegation clause exists that
precludes the court from determining the validity of the contract.
 
C.        The Arbitration Provision is Severable
from the Contract and Plaintiff Fails to Challenge the Arbitration Provision
Itself
 
“It has long been
settled that when parties have agreed to arbitration, challenges to the
validity of the underlying contract, including contract defenses such as fraud
in the inducement or illegality, are for the arbitrator to decide.
[Citations.]  This is because the
arbitration clause is viewed as separate from the underlying contract.
[Citation.] Thus,
allegations that the main contract is unlawful or unconscionable does not
affect the enforceability of the arbitration clause.”  (Nielsen Contracting, Inc. v.
Applied Underwriters, Inc. (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th
1096, 1107–1108.)
 
Plaintiff alleges
that he was fraudulently induced into signing the Agreement because the
Agreement was for a vehicle with a different VIN from the vehicle that he test-drove
and intended to purchase. (Welch Decl. ¶ 20; Cofield Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. 2) 
 
However, because the
arbitration provision is severable from the Agreement, Plaintiff must allege
fraud in the inducement and execution of the arbitration provision itself, not
just the Agreement as a whole. 
 
There are two types of validity
challenges under § 2: ‘One type challenges specifically the validity of the
agreement to arbitrate,’ and ‘[t]he other challenges the contract as a whole, either on a
ground that directly affects the entire agreement (e.g., the agreement was fraudulently induced), or on
the ground that the illegality of one of the contract's provisions renders the
whole contract invalid.’ [Citation.] In a line of cases neither party has asked
us to overrule, we held that
only the first type of challenge is relevant to a court's determination whether
the arbitration agreement at issue is enforceable. [Citations.] That is
because § 2 states that a ‘written provision’ ‘to settle by arbitration a
controversy’ is ‘valid, irrevocable, and enforceable’ without mention of the validity of the contract in
which it is contained. Thus, a party's challenge to another provision of the
contract, or to the contract as a whole, does not prevent a court from
enforcing a specific agreement to arbitrate. ‘[A]s a matter of substantive
federal arbitration law, an arbitration provision is severable from the
remainder of the contract.’ [Citation.]
 
(Rent-A-Center, West, Inc. v. Jackson (2010) 561 U.S. 63, 70–71, 130 S.Ct.
2772, 2778, 177 L.Ed.2d 403 [italics original].) 
 
Plaintiff’s argument that the
entire Agreement was the product of fraud because it contains the wrong VIN
fails because Plaintiff does not challenge the arbitration provision itself or
allege that the agreement to arbitrate was procured through fraud. 
 
D.        The Consumer Legal Remedies Act (CLRA)
does not bar Arbitration 
 
Plaintiff argues that
the arbitration provision in the Agreement is unenforceable under CLRA because
consumers are waived substantial rights afforded by the CLRA, including
prohibiting representative actions, limiting discovery, limiting the
application of state law, and requiring consumers to be responsible for
their attorney’s fees and costs in violation of the fee-shifting provision of
the CLRA (Civil Code § 1780(e)). (61 Cal.4th 899, 924
“[We conclude
that the CLRA's anti-waiver provision is preempted insofar as it bars class
waivers in arbitration agreements covered by the FAA”].) “In pronouncing
that arbitration contracts ‘involving commerce’ are to be ‘valid’ and
‘enforceable,’ section 2 of the FAA by its terms invalidates contrary state
laws except those that ‘exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any
contract.’” (Gallo v. Wood Ranch USA, Inc. (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th
621, 636–637.)
 
Therefore, the CLRA does not prohibit the
enforcement of an arbitration agreement governed by the FAA unless the
agreement is revocable in law or in equity, including unconscionability. 
 
E.        Plaintiff
Fails to Show that Defendant Waived the Right to Arbitration
 
“[Q]uestions of waiver
are for the court rather than the arbitrator[.]” (Wagner Const. Co. v.
Pacific Mechanical Corp. (2007) 41 Cal.4th 19, 28; see also CCP § 1281.2
(a).) “The question of waiver is generally a question of fact, and the trial
court's finding of waiver is binding on [appeal] if it is supported by
substantial evidence.” (Bower v. Inter-Con Security Systems, Inc.¿(2014)
232 Cal.App.4th 1035, 1043.) “Even if the record reflects that the trial court
misunderstood or misapplied the law in reaching its conclusion, it will be
affirmed if supported by any legal theory.” (Kokubu v. Sudo¿(2022) 76 Cal.App.5th
1074, 1082.)¿ 
 
Plaintiff argues that Defendant waived
the right to arbitration by failing to seek arbitration before filing a stolen
vehicle police report, thus taking an action inconsistent with the intent to
arbitrate. 
 
“‘The essential question
is whether, under the totality of the circumstances, the defaulting party has
acted inconsistently with the arbitration right.’” (Davis v. Shiekh Shoes,
LLC¿(2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 956, 964 (Davis) citing National
Foundation for Cancer Research v. A.G. Edwards & Sons, Inc.¿(D.C. Cir.
1987) 821 F.2d 772, 774.)¿ In Davis, the appellate court found that
the waiver test articulated by the California Supreme Court in St. Agnes
Medical Center v. PacifiCare of California (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1187 that was
adopted from the Tenth Circuit opinion in Peterson v. Shearson/American
Express, Inc. (10th Cir. 1988) 849 F.2d 464, is the correct test to apply
to the question of waiver “minus the prejudice requirement.” (Davis at
p. 966.) The St. Agnes/Peterson factors to assess claims of waiver
are:¿¿ 
¿ 
(1) whether the party's actions are inconsistent with the
right to arbitrate;¿¿
(2) whether the litigation machinery has been substantially
invoked and the parties were well into preparation of a lawsuit before the
party notified the opposing party of an intent to arbitrate;¿¿ 
(3) whether a party either requested arbitration enforcement
close to the trial date or delayed for a long period before seeking a
stay;¿¿ 
(4) whether a defendant seeking arbitration filed a
counterclaim without asking for a stay of the proceedings; and¿¿ 
(5) whether important intervening steps [e.g., taking
advantage of judicial discovery procedures not available in arbitration] had
taken place.¿ 
¿ 
(See Davis, supra,
84 Cal.App.5th 956; St. Agnes, supra, 31 Cal.4th at 1196; Peterson,
supra, 849 F.2d at 467-468.)¿ 
 
Here, that Defendant
filed a police report is not sufficient to find that Defendant waived the right
to arbitrate. Moreover, the Agreement itself provides: 
 
You and we retain the right to seek remedies in small claims court
for disputes or claims within that court's jurisdiction, unless such action is
transferred, removed or appealed to a different court. Neither you nor we waive
the right to arbitrate any related or unrelated claims by filing any action in
small claims court, or by using self-help remedies, such as repossession, or by
filing an action to recover the vehicle, to recover a deficiency balance, or
for individual or statutory public injunctive relief.
 
(Mohammed Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. A.) That Defendant
filed a police report is insufficient to show waiver to the right to arbitrate
under the St. Agnes/Peterson factors. Thus, Defendant has not waived the right to
arbitration. 
 
F.         Plaintiff’s Request for Injunctive
Relief Does Not Void the Right to Compel Arbitration
 
Plaintiff argues that
because he is seeking injunctive relief on behalf of the general public, the
claims cannot be subject to arbitration. However, the FAC not only seeks
injunctive relief but also monetary damages and punitive damages. 
 
Here, Plaintiff’s reliance on Broughton v. Cigna Healthplans of California (1999)  to avoid arbitration altogether is unavailing.
Although the court in Broughton
found that the plaintiff in
seeking injunctive relief was “ functioning as a private attorney general, enjoining
future deceptive practices on behalf of the general public” the fact that “a
CLRA injunctive relief action is not subject to arbitration does not
necessarily lead to the conclusion that a CLRA action for damages is likewise
inarbitrable.” (21 Cal.4th 1066, 1079-1084.) Therefore, “when a suit contains both arbitrable and
inarbitrable claims, the arbitrable claims should be severed from those that
are inarbitrable and sent to arbitration.” (Id. at p. 1088.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff’s claims for damages are
subject to arbitration, while Plaintiff’s request for injunctive relief under
CLRA is severed from the arbitrable claims. “This is so even when severance
leads to inefficiency.” (Broughton, supra, 21 Cal.4th at p.
1088.) The court declines Defendant’s request to find that Plaintiff request
for private injunctive relief rather than public injunctive relief mandates that
Plaintiff’s CLRA claims are arbitrable because Plaintiff seeks injunctive
relief that concerns Defendant’s advertising practices that have the “primary
purpose and effect” of benefiting the general public rather than merely
“redressing or preventing injury to an individual plaintiff—or to a group of
individuals similarly situated to the plaintiff[.]” (McGill v.
Citibank, N.A. (2017) 2 Cal.5th 945, 955.) 
 
Similarly, Defendant’s reliance on Hunter v. Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. (N.D. Cal. 2020) 434 F.Supp.3d 764 to argue that nothing
in the Agreement precludes the arbitrator from awarding injunctive relief is
also unavailing. In Hunter v. Kaiser, the District Court found that the
arbitration provision did not prevent the arbitrator from awarding public
injunctive relief: “Hunter points to
nothing in the Agreement here that would preclude the arbitrator from awarding
public injunctive relief.” (Id. at p. 781.) However, the Agreement expressly
prohibits the arbitrator from awarding injunctive relief: 
 
The arbitrator may not preside over a consolidated, representative,
class, collective, injunctive, or private attorney general action. 
 
(Mohammed Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. A.) Therefore, Hunter v. Kaiser is inapplicable. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
CLRA claims are severed from the arbitrable claims. The court will proceed to
stay the action unless Defendant wishes to challenge Plaintiff’s CLRA claims
and request for injunctive relief by way of demurrer. 
 
G.        Arbitration Provision is Not
Unconscionable
 
Plaintiff argues that
the arbitration provision in the Agreement is invalid due to unconscionability.
A showing of unconscionability requires procedural and substantive
unconscionability.¿¿Procedural unconscionability asks whether there is
oppression from unequal bargaining power or surprise from buried terms¿¿(Armendariz
v. Foundation Health¿(2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114.) Substantive
unconscionability asks whether there are overly harsh, one-sided terms.¿(Ibid.)
Both are required to be proven to find unconscionability.¿However, there is a
sliding scale; if an agreement is particularly substantively unconscionable,
the petitioner need not show a large amount of procedural unconscionability,
and vice versa. (Ibid.) “The party resisting arbitration bears the
burden of proving unconscionability.” (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v.
Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC¿(2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236.)
 
                        a.         Procedural
Unconscionability¿ 
 
Plaintiff argues that Defendants’
failure to attach the rules makes the Agreement incomplete and uncertain, but
the Agreement states that “You
may get a copy of the rules of an arbitration organization by contacting the
organization or visiting its website.” (Mohammed Decl. ¶
4, Ex. A.) Therefore, the fact that the arbitration rules are not attached does
not render the agreement void. Moreover, the fact that the rules are not
attached does not make the Agreement unconscionable. (See Peng v. First
Republic Bank (2013) 219 Cal. App. 4th 1462, 1472 (“[W]e find the failure
to attach the [arbitration] rules, standing alone, is insufficient grounds to
support a finding of procedural unconscionability.”); Bigler v. Harker
School (2013) 213 Cal. App. 4th 727, 737 [failure to attach incorporated
arbitration rules “is of minor significance” to procedural unconscionability]; Lane
v. Francis Capital Mgmt. LLC (2014) 224 Cal. App. 4th 676, 691 [holding the
employer’s “failure to attach a copy of the AAA rules did not render the
agreement procedurally unconscionable”].)
 
Plaintiff also fails
to show that the fact that Plaintiff’s signature is required multiple times,
but only once in acknowledgment of the arbitration provision, is unconscionable
as there is no case law supporting Plaintiff’s assertion. Moreover, the title
of the agreement in all caps letter informs the reader the Agreement comes with
an “ARBITRATION PROVISION” and the bottom of the first page lets the
reader know that they are agreeing to arbitrate their claims and the specific
provisions can be found in Page 5 of the Agreement. (Mohammed Decl. ¶ 4, Ex.
A.)
 
Thus, there is no
evidence of procedural unconscionability. 
 
b.         Substantive
Unconscionability
 
Plaintiff argues that the arbitration
provision is unconscionable because Defendant limits the amount of its advance
of all fees that the consumer may pay to only $5,000 without a provision for a
fee waiver. (Mohammed Decl. ¶ 4, Ex.
A at p. 5 [“We will pay the filing, administration, service, or case management
fee and the arbitrator or hearing fee up to a maximum of $5,000 unless the law
or the rules of the chosen arbitration organization require us to pay more.”].)
“To state it simply: it
is substantively unconscionable to require a consumer to give up the right to
utilize the judicial system, while imposing arbitral forum fees that are
prohibitively high. Whatever preference for arbitration might exist, it is not
served by an adhesive agreement that effectively blocks every forum for the
redress of disputes, including arbitration itself.” (Gutierrez
v. Autowest, Inc. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 77, 90 (Gutierrez).)

 
The Agreement gives the parties the
option of choosing “the
American Arbitration Association (www.adr.org) or National Arbitration and
Mediation (www.namadr.com) as the arbitration organization to conduct the arbitration.” (Mohammed Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. A at p. 5.) In
order to show that the Agreement unfairly imposes arbitration fees on Plaintiff
and consumers, Plaintiff needed to point to specific provisions in the American
Arbitration Association or the American Arbitration Association that show the
proceedings include costs and fees designed to prevent consumers from
initiating or continuing in arbitration. In Guitierrez, the “[p]laintiffs presented substantial evidence in the
trial court that the administrative fees exceeded their ability to pay,” but
here plaintiff presents no evidence and in a conclusory manner asserts that the
organization conducting the arbitration does not have a fee waiver provision. (Gutierrez, supra, 114 Cal.App.4th at p.
90.) 
 
Moreover, Plaintiff claims that the Agreement
limits discovery, but Plaintiff fails to point to the specific provision in the
Agreement or rules of the arbitration organization that shows that discovery is
unduly limited to prejudice the consumer. Moreover, the parties to
arbitration agreement are permitted to agree to something less than the full
panoply of discovery.¿ (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services,
Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 104-105.)
 
Thus, there is no evidence of substantive
unconscionability. 
 
The court agrees that the Agreement is
not unconscionable and sides with the courts in Sanchez v. Valencia Holding
Co., LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 899, 907 and Roth v. Jaguar Land Rover North
America, LLC (C.D. Cal., Dec. 4, 2017, No. SACV1701522AGDFMX) 2017
WL 10545074, at p.*3, that interpreted similar arbitration provisions to the
one at issue and found them to be valid and enforceable. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration is granted in part as to the second through sixth cause of action
and denied as to the first cause of action. The action is stayed pending
arbitration. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is
granted in part as to the second through sixth cause of action and denied as to
the first cause of action. The action is stayed pending arbitration. 
 
Defendant to give notice. 
 