  Case Number:  23CHCV02259    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 7-8-24
Case #23CHCV02259,
Hollis Frederick vs. Thor Motor Coach, Inc., et al.
Trial Date: 4-14-25
 
MOTION TO STAY ACTION
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
Thor Motor Coach, Inc., joined by Stier’s RV Centers, LLC
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff Hollis Frederick
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Defendant has
requested that the Court stay this action based on a forum selection clause.
 
RULING: Motion
to stay is granted.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
Plaintiff Hollis
Frederick (Plaintiff) purchased a new 2022 Thor recreational vehicle, made by
Defendant Thor Motor Coach, Inc., (Thor) in August 2022. Plaintiff purchased
the vehicle from Defendant Stier’s RV Centers, LLC, (Stier’s RV) in Santa
Clarita. On July 31, 2023, Plaintiff filed this action in Los Angeles County,
alleging warranty-based causes of action under the Song-Beverly Act. 
 
Both the warranty
registration form that Plaintiff signed before he purchased the vehicle and the
limited warranty that Plaintiff signed when he bought the vehicle contained
forum selection clauses. Both of those documents indicated that the proper
forum for legal disputes involving the warranty was the state of manufacture,
which was Indiana. The clause in the limited warranty reads as follows:
“EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION FOR DECIDING LEGAL
DISPUTES RELATING TO ALLEGED BREACH OF EXPRESS WARRANTY AND BREACH OF IMPLIED
WARRANTIES ARISING BY OPERATION OF LAW AS WELL AS THOSE RELATING TO
REPRESENTATIONS OF ANY NATURE MUST BE FILED IN A STATE OR FEDERAL COURT WITHIN
THE STATE OF MANUFACTURE, WHICH IS INDIANA.” (Capitalization in original.)
(Stanley Decl.,
Ex. C, pp. 9 and 12.)
 
On January 25,
2024, Thor filed this motion to stay based on the above forum selection clause.
Thor is requesting that the action be stayed to allow Plaintiff to file his
lawsuit in the proper forum in Indiana. Thor filed this motion pursuant to CCP
§ 410.30.
 
Stier’s RV, the
seller of Plaintiff’s vehicle, filed a joinder to Thor’s motion on January 25,
2024. Stier’s RV joined the motion on the basis that it is sufficiently
intertwined with the transaction to join in the request for stay.
 
ANALYSIS
Staying or
dismissing a case based on a forum selection clause is allowable under CCP §
410.30, which provides that “When a court upon motion of a party…finds that in
the interest of substantial justice an action should be heard in a forum
outside this state, the court shall stay or dismiss the action in whole or in
part on any conditions that may be just.” (CCP § 410.30(a).) 
 
Enforcement of
a forum selection clause is accomplished by a motion to stay or dismiss based
on forum non conveniens. (Olinick v. BMG Entertainment (2006) 138
Cal.App.4th 1286, 1294.) Because section 410.30 contains no specific time
constraint on the filing of a motion based on forum non conveniens, courts will
entertain motions to dismiss or stay under that statute so long as they are
brought within a reasonable time under the circumstances of the case. (See Trident
Labs, Inc. v. Merrill Lynch Commercial Finance Corp. (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th
147.) Thor argues that because this motion was filed within 21 weeks (less than
five months) of when Thor filed its answer, then it is timely filed. The Court
agrees.
 
Next, Thor
argues that Plaintiff will not be able to satisfy his burden of demonstrating
that the forum selection clause is unreasonable. The modern trends favors the
enforceability of forum selection clauses. (See Smith, Valentino &
Smith, Inc. v. Superior Court (1976) 17 Cal.3d 491, 495.)
 
Courts have
also noted that “[forum selection] clauses provided a degree of certainty, both
for business and their customers, that contractual disputes will be resolved in
a particular forum. California courts routinely enforce forum selection clauses
even where the chosen forum is far from the plaintiff’s residence.” (Net2Phone,
Inc. v. Superior Court (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 583, 588-589.) 
 
Where forum
selection clauses are mandatory, as the one in this case is, then “the test is
simply whether application of the clause is unfair or unreasonable, and the
clause is usually given effect. Claims that the previously chosen forum is
unfair or inconvenient are generally rejected. A court will usually honor a
mandatory forum selection clause without extensive analysis of factors relating
to convenience.” (Berg v. MTC Electronics Technologies (1998) 61
Cal.App.4th 349, 358.)
 
The court in Trident
Labs, Inc., supra, 200 Cal.App.4th 147, held that a plaintiff
contesting the application of a mandatory forum selection clause bears the
burden of proof and a traditional forum non conveniens analysis is not
utilized: “‘[T]he forum selection clause is presumed valid and will be enforced
unless the plaintiff shows that enforcement of the clause would be unreasonable
under the circumstances of the case.’” (Id. at 154; See also, Intershop
Communications v. Superior Court (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 191, 196 [“A
mandatory clause will ordinarily be given effect without any analysis of
convenience; the only question is whether enforcement of the clause would be
unreasonable”].)
 
Forum selection
clauses are mandatory when the clause dictates the court in which a lawsuit must
be brought. (See Intershop Communications, supra, 104 Cal.App.4th
191; see also Lu v. Dryclean-U.S.A. of California, Inc. (1992) 11
Cal.App.4th 1490.) The forum selection clause in this case states that legal
disputes “must be filed in a state or federal court within the state of
manufacture, which is Indiana.” Because the clause uses the word “must,” it is
mandatory rather than permissive. 
 
In this case,
the forum selection clause in Thor’s Limited Warranty and Warranty Registration
is mandatory. The burden is now on Plaintiff to demonstrate that enforcement of
the clause is unreasonable. This burden requires Plaintiff to show more than
inconvenience or increased expenses to him. If Plaintiff cannot meet this
burden, then the Court will grant Thor’s motion and stay the action to allow
Plaintiff to file this suit in Indiana.
 
Thor also
argues that the forum selection clause is enforceable because it was provided
at the time of sale. Even if Plaintiff did not read the clause or understand
it, the clause is enforceable. (See Desert Outdoor Advertising v. Superior
Court (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 866, 872.)
 
Finally,
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s rights under the Song-Beverly Act will be
preserved if this case goes forward in Indiana because Thor will stipulate by
this motion that the Song-Beverly Act will apply to Plaintiff’s warranty claims
pursued in Indiana and Thor will not oppose a request that the Indiana court
utilize the Song-Beverly Act. California courts have previously endorsed a
stipulation to preserve a plaintiff’s unwaivable rights in the context of a
mandatory forum selection clause. (Verdugo v. Alliantgroup, L.P. (2015)
237 Cal.App.4th 141.) Thor argues that by agreeing to stipulate that the
Song-Beverly Act will apply to Plaintiff’s claims in Indiana, Thor has
eliminated any doubt and uncertainty about which law an Indiana court will
apply to Plaintiff’s allegations. Thor argues that its request to stay, rather
than dismiss, would allow Plaintiff to return to this Court if an Indiana court
declines to apply Song-Beverly to his claims. (See Berg, supra,
61 Cal.App.4th 349.)
 
The forum
selection clause indicating that any legal disputes based on the warranty must
be heard in Indiana is not unreasonable. Based on the foregoing, the Court
grants Defendant Thor’s motion to stay the case.
 
CONCLUSION
Defendant Thor’s
motion to stay the case pursuant to the forum selection clause is granted. The
action is stayed pending a status report showing that an action was filed in Indiana
and that Defendant Thor accepted jurisdiction and did not oppose the
utilization of the Song-Beverly Act. The date for the status report will be set
at the hearing on this motion.
 
Moving party to
give notice.