


[1] This requirement is
satisfied. 
 


[2] Defendants mistakenly label the 8th COA as
the IIED, but the IIED COA in both the complaint’s caption and text provide
that it is the 7th COA (though the opposition also addresses the
IIED COA as the 8th COA). 


[3] The habitability violations include excessive growths
of vegetation, lack of maintenance to pool, sauna, and yard, extensive leaks
causing mold, moisture damage, and structural issues, inoperable/malfunctioning
windows, gates, and doors, missing window screens, insecure stair railing
posing fall hazard, inoperable, dysfunctional electrical system, rat
infestation, ant infestation, rattlesnake infestation, and extensive mold.
 


[4] The only specific allegation is that on July 11,
2022, inspector Jose Luis Barrera inspected the unit. (Complaint ¶56.) However, as the complaint is not
clear as to whether Barrera works for the county and the opposition does not cite
to paragraph 56, the court assumes the inspection irrelevant for purposes of
this COA. 
 


[5] The complaint, for its failure to comply with
pleading standards, is also uncertain. 


[6] To the extent that Plaintiffs cited to Stoiber v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App. 3d 903, Plaintiffs
have not provided an analysis (i.e., comparison of facts in Stoiber to
instant facts), and it is not the court’s burden to do so for Plaintiffs. 
            


[7] “As
explained in the Restatement Second of Torts, section 46, comment j, ‘[c]omplete emotional tranquility is seldom
attainable in this world, and some degree of transient and trivial emotional
distress is a part of the price of living among people. The law intervenes only
where the distress inflicted is so severe that no reasonable man could be
expected to endure it. The intensity and duration of the distress are factors
to be considered in determining its severity.” After reviewing this discussion,
the Fletcher court concluded that “[i]t appears,
therefore, that in this context ‘severe’ means substantial or enduring as
distinguished from trivial or transitory. Severe emotional distress means,
then, emotional distress of such substantial quantity or enduring quality that
no reasonable man in a civilized society should be expected to endure it.’
Although appellants alleged they suffered severe
emotional distress, they failed to set forth any facts which indicate the nature
or extent of any mental suffering incurred as a result of Employer’s
alleged outrageous conduct.”]) (emphasis added). 
 


[8] And, similar to 1st COA, the court finds
the pleadings uncertain due to the improper use of incorporation by reference. 

