  Case Number:  23PSCV00240    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2023    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
(1)   DEFENDANTS’
DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFFS’ COMPLAINT is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 
 
(2)  
DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF
PLAINTIFFS’ COMPLAINT is MOOT. 
 
Background
 
This is a
habitability case. 
 
On January 26, 2023,
Plaintiffs John Hale and Erica Henderson (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed
suit against Defendants KENNETH SHU, AN INDIVIDUAL; TIFFANY SHU, AN INDIVIDUAL;
KENNETH SHU, AS TRUSTEE TO THE SHU KENNETH AND TIFFANY TRUST; KENNETH SHU, AS
TRUSTEE TO THE SHU TRUST (collectively, “Defendants”) asserting the following
causes of action (COA):  1.     Violation of California Civil Code section
1942.4 2.     Tortious Breach of the Warranty of
Habitability 3.     Private Nuisance 4.     Business and Professions Code section 17200,
et seq. 5.     Negligence 6.     Breach of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment 7.     Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
(IIED) 8.     Negligence Per Se 9.     Violation of Consumer Legal Remedies Act
(CLRA) 10.  Intentional Influence to Vacate 11.  Violation of Los Angeles County Retaliatory
Eviction and Anti-Harassment Ordinance 12.  Trespassing
 
On July 6, 2023,
Defendants filed the instant demurrer with a motion to strike. 
 
On July 31, 2023,
Plaintiffs filed their opposition. 
 
On August 8, 2023,
Defendants filed their Reply. 
 
On August 15, 2023,
after no appearance by Plaintiff/Plaintiff’s Counsel, the court continued the
hearing to 10/02/23. 
Legal Standard 
Defendants bring forth the demurrer pursuant to California Code of Civil
Procedure (CCP) section 430.10 subdivisions e and f. (Demurrer p. 3.) In turn,
subdivision e provides that a demurrer may be asserted when the pleading does
not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (Code of Civ.
Proc., §430.10 subds. (e).) Subdivision f provides that a demurrer may be
asserted when the pleading is uncertain. Additionally, a demurrer tests the
sufficiency of a pleading, and the grounds for a demurrer must appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (Code of Civ. Proc.
§ 430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) Lastly, CCP
section 430.41 requires the parties to meet and confer before the filing of a
demurrer.[1]
Discussion
 
Defendants demur to
the 1st COA for violation of Civil Code section 1942.4 and the 7th
COA for IIED.[2]
(Demurrer p. 3.) 
 
1.     1st COA for Civil Code Section
1942.4
 
Under Civil Code
section 1942.4, a residential landlord may not demand or collect rent, increase
rent, or serve a three-day notice to pay rent or quit if (1) the dwelling is
untenantable as defined under Civ. Code section 1941.1, is in violation of
Health & Safety Code section 17920.10, or is deemed and declared
substandard under Health & Safety Code section 17920.3; (2) a public
officer inspects the premises and gives the landlord written notice that it
must abate the nuisance or repair the property; (3) the conditions have not
been remedied within 35 days of the notice; and (4) the substandard conditions
were not caused by the tenant's acts or omissions.  
 
As a prefatory matter, Plaintiffs’ complaint
incorporates 85 allegations under each cause of action. This is not a proper
use of incorporation. 
 
A civil plaintiff may, for the sake of convenience,
incorporate by reference previous portions of the pleading for informational
purposes only. (Cal-West Nat. Bank v. Superior Court (1986) 185 Cal.
App. 3d 96, 101.) A review of the causes of action reveals that Plaintiffs are
not incorporating facts for informational purposes; instead, they are
attempting to plead the essential elements of their cause of action by
incorporating unidentified allegations from other portions of their pleadings.
 This imposes the burden on the court and Defendants to search through the
pleadings in order to identify critical aspects of the claims and to determine
whether the Plaintiffs have pleaded the essential facts necessary to constitute
the causes of action.  
 
On
this note about pleading essential facts, CCP section 425.10(a)(1) requires the
complaint to contain “A statement of the facts constituting the cause of
action, in ordinary and concise language.”  A review of the complaint
reveal they are not concise. Seventy-two pages of narrative, with largely
duplicative allegations, is unnecessary to the pleading and should be cut or
reduced substantially so that the pleading includes only the essential elements
of the causes of action “in ordinary and concise language”.
 
And this failure to
plead essential facts inherently ties into Defendants’ basis for demurrer which
is that Plaintiffs fail to plead sufficient facts. For example, the
complaint does not allege the inspection date(s), agency violations and notice
of same with specificity. (Demurrer p. 6.) Plaintiffs seemingly concede this
point by citing generally to paragraphs 1 through 85 (Opp. p. 2:1-5), which, as
explained above, does not meet pleading standards. 
 
To the extent that
Plaintiffs aver that each element for the COA is pled in conformity with the “non-heightened
pleading standard” (Opp. p. 5:7-8), this is a statutory COA, and statutory COAs
are required to be pled with particularity. (See Demurrer p. 6, citing Hood
v. Hacienda La Puente Unified School Dist. (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 435, 439;
see also Reply p. 2, citing Vedder v. City of Imperial (1974) 36
Cal.App.3d 654, 659.) With that, the complaint does not identify any condition
impacting habitability that was specifically cited by a public officer for the
subject property or does not state the date on which any representative of
Defendants received written notice of their obligation to repair defective
condition. Rather, the complaint has alleged numerous habitability concerns
(Complaint ¶21, 24-37)[3]
without establishing which ones are in violation of health and safety codes and
conclusively stated “Los Angeles Health Department provided written notice”
(Complaint ¶89) and conclusively stated “Defendants failed to abate or repair
the conditions identified in one or more of the Notice and Orders to Comply
within 35 days of receiving the notice.” (Complaint ¶91.)[4]
 
Therefore, the court
SUSTAINS the demurrer with leave to amend as to the 1st COA because
Plaintiffs have not been pled facts with the requisite particularity.[5]
 
2.     IIED
 
The elements of IIED are as follows: there is
(1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of
causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional
distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress;
and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the
defendant’s outrageous conduct.  (See Potter
v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal. 4th 965, 1001; Christensen
v. Superior Court (1991) 54 Cal. 3d 868, 903.) “Conduct to be
outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated
in a civilized community.” (Ibid.) 
“Generally, conduct will be found to be actionable where the ‘recitation
of the facts to an average member of the community would arouse his resentment
against the actor, and lead him to exclaim, ‘Outrageous!’” (KOVR-TV, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 1023, 1028, citing Rest.2d Torts, § 46, com. d.)
Said differently, the test for judging outrageous conduct is less an analytical,
bright-line test but rather one that appears “more intuitive.” (KOVR-TV,
Inc., supra, 31 Cal.App.4th at p. 1028.) 
 
The pertinent
allegations comprising this COA are: 
 
The
Defendant landlord's practice/conduct of ignoring these conditions and/or
otherwise failing to make any repairs, under the circumstances, is extreme and
outrageous . . . Plaintiffs lived in constant fear that their children's health
and safety would take a tum for the worse, as the Plaintiffs were left unable
to protect their children from the dangers found at every comer of the
Property. Plaintiffs allege that their son was cut in the swimming pool as a
result of the Defendants' refusal to remove dangerous glass blocks . . .
Plaintiffs allege the Plaintiff Erica Henderson's oldest son even moved out of
the Property to live with his other parent because the conditions in the
Property and emotional distress and threat of harassment was so high.
 
(Complaint
¶¶147-152.)
 
Here, for similar
reasons above regarding incorporating previous allegations by reference, the
court finds the pleadings uncertain. The IIED COA does not explain the
specifics as to the harassment. A review of the complaint illustrates
allegations that may speak to harassment such as that there was constant
fighting with Defendants (Complaint ¶77) or that Plaintiffs would sometimes see
Defendants, without notice, in their backyard (Complaint ¶76). This leaves the
court to assume which facts Plaintiffs are predicated their extreme
conduct upon, which the court cannot as it is bound by the pleadings on a
demurrer. 
 
Turning to the
second form of conduct—predicated upon the alleged uninhabitable
conditions—Plaintiffs have not cited to any legal authority to maintain that
failure to perform repairs constitutes the requisite conduct to support an IIED
COA.[6]

 
Additionally, as for
emotional damages, those are conclusively pled. (Complaint ¶156 [“Plaintiffs
have suffered and/or continue to suffer illness, physical, injury, property
damages, emotional harm, anguish, depression, fearfulness, anxiety, nightmares,
difficulty sleeping, embarrassment, shame.”].) These are merely forms of which
emotional distress, but the allegation does not explain the nature nor extent
of the emotional distress. (See Bogard v.
Employers Casualty Co. (1985) 164 Cal.App.3d 602, 617.)[7]
 
Therefore, the
court SUSTAINS the demurrer with leave to amend as to the 7th COA
for IIED because Plaintiffs have failed to plead sufficient facts.[8]
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the
foregoing, the entirety of the demurrer is sustained with leave to amend. Based
thereon, the motion to strike punitive damages is moot. 


