  Case Number:  22STCV04333    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  T Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s DepositionMoving Party: Defendant Build Group Construction Co. Responding Party: Plaintiff Colin Harrigan Tentative Ruling: GrantBACKGROUNDThis action arises out of a July 29, 2020 accident that occurred at a construction site in Long Beach, where Plaintiff was doing pipe fitting work as an employee of ACCO Engineering Systems ("ACCO") when the accident occurred. Namely, a pipe being lifted by a hand chain hoist manufactured by co-defendant JET fell and struck Plaintiff, injuring his right hand. Plaintiff filed his Complaint on February 2, 2022 and subsequently amended said Complaint on September 1, 2023 to “Doe in” his employer, ACCO. The parties have conducted written discovery and given the October 8, 2024 trial date.On January 3, 2024, Defendant served a Notice of Deposition of Plaintiff, setting the deposition for January 25, 2024. On January 18, 2024, Plaintiff served an Objection, advising that Plaintiff and his counsel were unavailable but that counsel would produce the witness for deposition on a mutually agreeable date and time. Defendant emailed Plaintiff asking for 3-4 available dates in February 2024 for Plaintiff's deposition; after receiving no response to the January 23, Defendant again emailed and requested that 3-4 dates available for Plaintiff's deposition be provided by February 1, 2024.  Plaintiff's counsel’s office ultimately responded, advising that they reached out to Plaintiff and have yet to hear back. Defendant repeatedly reached out to Plaintiff’s counsel over the next several months to attempt to receive deposition dates, the last being sent on May 24, 2024. Plaintiff's counsel has not responded to the most recent email nor provided any available dates for Plaintiff's deposition.MOVING PARTY POSITIONDefendant argues that good cause exists to issue an order compelling Plaintiff to appear for a remote deposition on August 21, 2024, at 10:00 a.m. (Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Deposition p. 6.)  Particularly given the number of attempts to reach out to Plaintiff’s counsel and set a date for the deposition, and the increasingly time-sensitive nature of the October trial, Defendant argues that the Court should grant their motion to compel and award monetary sanction.Defendant seeks $1,347.50 in monetary sanctions for Plaintiff's failure to provide deposition, composed of three hours to prepare these moving papers and anticipated two and a half hours preparing a reply brief and attending the hearing on this motion, based on a billing rate of $245.00 per hour. OPPOSITIONPlaintiff argues that it would be prejudiced if it had to provide depositions to each of the defendants in this case. Plaintiff asserts that only recently have all necessary parties been added as defendants and that if Plaintiff is forced to provide a deposition prematurely, “he would be subject to another deposition each time a new party is DOE’d into this case.”  However, Plaintiff is open to providing his deposition, “one time after all necessary parties are included in this litigation.” (Plaintiff’s Opposition p. 3.)Plaintiff also requests that the Court impose sanctions on Defendant for $2,000.00 based on a $500 per hour rate and four hours researching and drafting this motion.REPLYDefendant acknowledges that Plaintiff served objections to Defendant's notices of deposition but points out that Plaintiff's counsel assented to arrange available dates to provide Plaintiff for deposition, which Plaintiff has failed to do even as of six months after. (Reply p. 3.)  Defendant refutes Plaintiff's argument that Plaintiff wanted to wait until all of the necessary parties have been served, arguing that two and a half years have passed since Plaintiff filed his Complaint and that counsel has had more than adequate time to investigate to ensure that all of the necessary parties have been served. Defendant says he should not be prejudiced because of Plaintiff's counsel's own failure to investigate his client's claims in a timely fashion.Defendant further contests Plaintiff’s arguments regarding sanctions.APPLICABLE LAW“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)  The motion “shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice” and it “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subds. (b)(1) – (b)(2).)  If the court grants a motion to compel deposition and produce documents, “the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).) ANALYSISDefendant properly served Plaintiff a Notice of Deposition and has persistently attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiff in the ensuing months to schedule a date for deposition. While Plaintiff did timely object to Defendant's notice, Plaintiff consistently indicated assent to finding a new date to schedule the deposition—saying “We will work on obtaining new dates from our client,” but then failing to follow up with Defendant or respond to Defendant’s good faith attempts to schedule a new date for deposition. (Motion to Compel, p. 104, exhibit P.) To date, Plaintiff has not provided any dates for the deposition, despite expressing intent to do so as far back as six months ago. As a result, the Court finds that Defendant has good cause to justify compelling Plaintiff’s deposition.Because Defendant’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s deposition was proper, this Court need not consider Plaintiff’s request for sanctions against Defendant for misuse of discovery.SANCTIONSIf the court grants a motion to compel deposition and produce documents, “the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).) Here, Defendant requests $1,347.50 in monetary sanctions for five and a half hours of work at a $245.00 per hour rate.  The Court finds this accounting reasonable. RULINGThis Motion to Compel Deposition of Plaintiff is GRANTED. Plaintiff is compelled to appear for a remote deposition on August 21, 2024, at 10:00 a.m. or by mutual agreement of the parties in writing, at any such date and time within the next 30 days. Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions of $1,347.50 is GRANTED jointly and severally against Plaintiff and Plaintiff's counsel.  Sanctions to be paid within 30 days of this order.