  Case Number:  22STCV14052    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January
30, 2024                                           TRIAL DATE:  Not
set
                                                           
CASE:                         Diana Gonzalez
v. V.F. Corporation, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV14052
 





















 
MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION AND STAY ACTION PENDING ARBITRATION OUTCOME



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
V.F. Corporation, et al.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Diana
Gonzalez
 
 
I.                  
BACKGROUND
 
This
is a class action lawsuit for recovery of unpaid wages and penalties brought
pursuant to Private Attorneys General Act (PAGA).  On April 7, 2020, Plaintiff, Diana Gonzalez, filed a Complaint against Defendants, V.F. Corporation which
conducts business in California as Pennsylvania V.F. Corporation (“V.F.
Corporation”); and Volt Information Sciences, Inc. (“Volt”), for: (1) Minimum Wage
Violations (Labor Code §§1182.12, 1194, 1194.2 and 1197); (2) Failure to Pay
All Overtime Wage (Labor Code §§ 204, 510, 558, 1194, and 1198); (3) Meal
Period Violations (Labor Code §§ 226.7 and 512); (4) Rest Period Violations
(Labor Code §§ 226.7 and 516); (5) Wage Statement Violations (Labor Code § 226,
et seq.); (6) Waiting Time Penalties (Labor Code §§ 201-203); (7) Failure
to Reimburse for Necessary Business Expenses (Labor Code § 2802, et seq.);
and (8) Unfair Competition (Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200, et seq).  This action was originally filed in Santa
Clara Superior Court.  As alleged,
Plaintiff was employed by Defendants as a logistics specialist in 2019.  The parties entered into an employment
agreement which contained an arbitration clause.
 
 The following is taken from the parties’ joint
stipulation filed on September 28, 2022. 

 
On June 10, 2020,
Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (FAC) to add the Ninth
Cause of Action for civil penalties under PAGA.[1]  The Ninth Cause of Action is brought
individually and in Plaintiff’s representative capacity.
 
The parties
thereafter participated in an unsuccessful mediation.  As a result, the parties entered into a
stipulation to dismiss Plaintiff’s class claims pursuant to an enforceable
arbitration agreement which dismissed without prejudice Plaintiff’s individual
and class action allegations, and to transfer the action to the Los Angeles
County Superior Court.  Pursuant to the
stipulation, which was submitted to the Santa Clara Superior Court on December
3, 2021, Plaintiff’s lawsuit was to proceed solely under the Ninth Cause of Action
for civil penalties under PAGA.
 
            Arbitration of Plaintiff’s
individual claims commenced on April 6, 2022 before Arbitrator Pamela Hemminger.
 On September 14, 2022, in light of the
United States Supreme Court ruling in the matter of Viking River Cruises,
Inc. v. Moriana (2022) 596 U.S. 639 (Viking River) and the
California Supreme Court’s then-pending ruling in Adolph v. Uber
Technologies, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104 (Adolph), the parties
agreed to stay the action.  
 
            On July 17, 2023, the California
Supreme Court issued its opinion in Adolph.
 
            On October 26, 2023, Defendant Volt
filed this Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Action Pending Arbitration
Outcome.  Volt seeks to compel arbitration
of Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claims.
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD
 
            California law incorporates many of
the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal Arbitration Act (FAA),
including a presumption in favor of arbitrability. (Engalla
v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th
951, 971-72.) Under
both the FAA and California law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable,
and enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding
a contract. (Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166
Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) The petitioner bears the
burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by a
preponderance of the evidence, the party opposing the petition then bears the
burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to
demonstrate that there should be no enforcement of the agreement, and the trial
court sits as a trier of fact to reach a final determination on the issue. (Rosenthal
v. Great Western Financial Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.)  Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
1281.2, the Court can compel parties to an arbitration agreement to arbitrate
their dispute. 
 
III.       EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
Volt timely filed its Reply on December 15, 2023.  Thereafter, on January 19, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a Notice of Supplemental Authority. 
Volt objects to the Notice of Supplemental Authority (NOSA) because it
improperly includes supplemental arguments. 
In other words, the NOSA is, effectively, a sur-reply.  The court agrees.  Accordingly, the court does not consider the
NOSA in ruling on this motion.
 
IV.       DISCUSSION
 
            There is no dispute over the
conscionability or enforceability of the agreement.  The parties agree the Federal Arbitration Act
governs.  The principal issues to be
decided are (1) whether the arbitration agreement applies to individual PAGA
claims, and (2) whether the arbitration agreement constitutes an impermissible
wholesale waiver of the right to bring a PAGA action in court.  The Court addresses each argument in turn.
 
            The Arbitration Agreement
Applies to Individual PAGA Claims
 
            Plaintiff argues the arbitration
agreement does not apply to PAGA claims because the agreement, when signed, excluded
claims prohibited by federal law, which at the time included PAGA claims.  In support, Plaintiff points to the following
arbitration language:
 
“This agreement to arbitrate does not
apply to claims for workers’ compensation, unemployment compensation benefits,
claims or charges before any administrative agency having jurisdiction over
such claims, or any other claim that is not subject to arbitration under
federal law. If any claims are deemed non-arbitrable, then those claims will be
stayed until resolution of any arbitrable claims.” (Emphasis added)
 
(Baker Decl., Ex. A., ¶ 5c.)  Plaintiff’s argument relies on the use of the
present tense verb “is”.  Using a
temporal landmark, Plaintiff then asserts that California law at the time the contract
was signed precluded arbitration of PAGA claims.  Building on that premise, Plaintiff advances
the argument that the parties did not intend and could not have intended for individual
PAGA claims to be arbitrated.  Plaintiff
cites Iskanian v. CLS Transportation Los Angeles (2014) 59
Cal.4th 348 and Correira v. NB Naker Electric, Inc. (2019) 32
Cal.App.5th 602 as the applicable law at the time the agreement was made. 
            Plaintiff’s argument fails.  In Iskanian and Correira, the California
Supreme Court and Court of Appeal, respectively, held that pre-dispute
arbitration agreements compelling representative PAGA claims into
arbitration were unenforceable.  As the
Court of Appeal stated in Correira: 
“Although Iskanian did not decide the issue of whether courts
have the authority to order a PAGA representative action into arbitration,
several California Courts of Appeal have held a PAGA arbitration requirement in
a predispute arbitration agreement is unenforceable based on Iskanian's
view that the state is the real party in interest in a PAGA claim. These courts
reasoned the state must have consented to the agreement to effectively waive
the right to bring the PAGA claim into court. We agree with this analysis as
applied to the circumstances before us.” 
(Correira, 32 Cal.App.5th at p. 609.)   
            Here, Volt seeks only to compel Plaintiff’s individual
PAGA claims into arbitration.  Further,
the arbitration agreement expressly provides that Plaintiff’s individual claims
must be arbitrated.  (Baker Decl., Ex.
A., ¶ 5d.)  Plaintiff demanded
arbitration for her individual non-PAGA claims. 
The individual PAGA claim runs with the individual non-PAGA claim.  Each arises under the same set of alleged
facts and events.  Plaintiff does not
point to any authority providing that individual PAGA claims cannot be
compelled to arbitration pursuant to a valid arbitration agreement. 
 
            The
Arbitration Agreement Does Not Constitute A Waiver of PAGA Claims
            
            Plaintiff argues the individual and representative
PAGA claims cannot be “split,” with individual PAGA claims heading off to
arbitration and representative claims staying in the judicial forum.  Plaintiff cites Viking River.  There, the Supreme Court split the
plaintiff’s PAGA claim because the severability clause in that cause expressly permitted
the Court to do so.[2]  
 
            Citing Barrera, supra,
Volt responds that the arbitration agreement here has a severability clause
requiring arbitration of individual PAGA claims.  The court agrees.  Here, the arbitration agreement states, in
relevant part:
 
“I understand and agree that, except
where prohibited by federal law, all claims subject to this agreement to
arbitrate must be pursued on an individual basis, and that both I and Volt
waive any right to bring or be a party to any class, collective or
representative action. I agree that any issues pertaining to the
enforceability, application or validity of this agreement to arbitrate shall be
decided only by a court of competent jurisdiction and not by an arbitrator.”
 
(Baker Decl., Ex. A., ¶ 5d.)  Near the signature line, the agreement states
in bold lettering, “I understand and agree that if any of the terms above
are deemed invalid or unenforceable, the remaining terms will remain in effect.”  (Id., emphasis added.)
 
            The
foregoing arbitration agreement is similar to the arbitration language at issue
in Barrera.[3]  Acknowledging that the provision did not
contain language as explicit as Viking River, which expressly identified
representative PAGA actions, the Barrera court nevertheless upheld the
trial court’s order splitting the plaintiffs’ PAGA claims because the
arbitration agreement provided that “any arbitration .... will be on
an individual basis ....” 
(Barrera, at p. 84, italics in original.)   Here, the arbitration provision similarly
provides that “all claims subject to this agreement to arbitrate must be
pursued on an individual basis, ….”  
The arbitration provision here is not ambiguous.  It requires arbitration of all individual
claims.  Plaintiff’s individual PAGA
claims are no different. 
 
            Plaintiff’s PAGA Claims
Against Defendant V.F. Corporation Must Be Arbitrated
 
            Volt argues Plaintiff’s individual
PAGA claims against V.F. Corporation must also be compelled to arbitration
because V.F. Corporation is a third-party beneficiary to the arbitration
agreement.  
 
            Plaintiff contends her claims
against V.F. Corporation cannot be compelled to arbitration because the
arbitration agreement does not specifically identify V.F. Corporation.
 
The
arbitration agreement states, 
 
“I understand and agree that both Volt
and I waive our respective rights to trial by jury in connection with any
claims covered by this agreement to arbitrate. Instead, any disputes arising
out of or related to my employment with and/or termination from Volt, my
assignment with any Volt client and/or end of such assignment, including claims
relating to Volt and/or Volt’s clients’ employees/agents, shall be settled
by final and binding arbitration pursuant to the Federal Arbitration Act.”
 
(Baker
Decl., Ex. A, ¶
5d.)   In other words, the agreement contemplates
arbitration of any claims arising out of or related to Plaintiff’s employment
with and/or termination from Volt. 
Plaintiff’s allegations are asserted against Volt and V.F. Corporation as
joint employers.  They arise from
Plaintiff’s employment with Volt.  Plaintiff
unduly focuses on the “Volt and I” language and ignores the scope of the
disputes to be arbitrated—namely, any disputes arising out of related to her
employ with Volt, including claims relating to Volt and/or Volts’ clients’
employees/agents.  Volt establishes the
agreement encompasses Plaintiff’s claims against V.F. Corporation.  
 
The
Action Should Be Stayed Pending Arbitration
            Plaintiff
resists Volt’s request to have this court stay the representative PAGA claims.
Plaintiff argues the state court matter should not be stayed because the chance
of inconsistent rulings is slight.  The
possibility remains problematic.  For
example, should the matters proceed simultaneously, and the arbitrator determines
the Plaintiff is not an aggrieved party, the representative action would be in
jeopardy.  Better to resolve the
individual claims first.  This is
precisely the procedure outlined in Adolph.  (See Adolph, supra, 14 Cal.5th
at pp. 1123-1124.)
            Volt
also points out that under the FAA an action must be stayed if any part of the
claim is determined to be arbitrable.  “If any suit or proceeding be brought
in any of the courts of the United States upon any issue referable to
arbitration under an agreement in writing for such arbitration, the court in
which such suit is pending, upon being satisfied that the issue involved in
such suit or proceeding is referable to arbitration under such an agreement,
shall on application of one of the parties stay the trial of the action until
such arbitration has been had in accordance with the terms of the agreement,
providing the applicant for the stay is not in default in proceeding with such
arbitration.  (9 U.S.C. § 3, emphasis
added.)  
            Further,
a stay is mandatory even under California law where the issues may overlap.  (See Franco v. Arakelian Enterprises, Inc.
(2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 947, 966 (holding that under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.4, “because the issues subject to litigation under the PAGA might
overlap those that are subject to arbitration of Franco's individual claims,
the trial court must order an appropriate stay of trial court proceedings.”].)  On its face, Plaintiff’s individual PAGA
claims may overlap with the representative PAGA claims.
V.        CONCLUSION
 
            Accordingly,
the motion to compel the individual PAGA claims to arbitration is
GRANTED.  The action is stayed as to all parties pending the conclusion of
the arbitration.  The court sets a post-arbitration status conference for
October 30, 2024 at 9:00 a.m. 
 
 
Dated:   January 30,
2024                               




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
 
            
 


