  Case Number:  21STCP03121    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  82 Wilshire Gayley, LLC,                                             Case No. 21STCP03121
 
v.
                                                                    Hearing:
September 13, 2024
                                                                        Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse
Los
Angeles County                                                  Department: 82                                       Metropolitan Transportation                            Judge: Stephen I.
Goorvitch
Authority,
et al.         
 
 
[Tentative] Order Denying Motion to Quash
Deposition Subpoena
 
 
INTRODUCTION  
 
Petitioner Wilshire Gayley, LLC
(“Petitioner”) intends to build a high-rise project at the northwest corner
of Wilshire Boulevard and Gayley Avenue in Westwood, California.  The Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority (“Metro”) is expanding the subway system and intends
to place a station underneath Wilshire Boulevard and in close proximity to
Petitioner’s proposed high-rise.  The
City of Los Angeles (the “City”) will not issue an “early start grading permit”
until Metro issues a clearance, which Metro is refusing to do.  Petitioner seeks a peremptory writ of mandate
under Code of Civil Procedure section 1085 requiring
the City to obey its ministerial duty to issue a building permit without
Metro’s approval.  Now, Metro moves to
quash the
deposition subpoena for personal appearance and production of documents and
things (the “subpoena”) served by Petitioner Wilshire Gayley, LLC
(“Petitioner”) on a non-party, Tutor Perini/O&G Joint Venture (“TPOG”).  Petitioner opposes the motion.  TPOG has not joined in the motion or filed
its own motion to quash the Subpoena. 
Nor has the City joined in the motion. 
Following a hearing, the court denied the motion to quash.  
 
BACKGROUND 
 
            The
allegations of Petitioner’s third amended petition (“TAP”) are summarized in the
court’s order overruling Metro’s demurrer. 
(Court’s Order, dated July 9, 2024.) 
As relevant to this motion, however, on August 7, 2024, Petitioner
served a deposition subpoena on TPOG, the design/build contractor hired by Metro
to build the Purple Line Extension Section 3 Stations Project (“Station”).  (See Stromberg Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A.)  Petitioner’s counsel met and conferred with
counsel for TPOG, who “expressed some concern about the scope of the document
requests included in the Subpoena.”  (Id.
¶ 4.)  Petitioner’s counsel agreed to
narrow the scope of the Subpoena in response to TPOG’s concerns and also to
continue the deposition date to accommodate TPOG’s witness’s availability.  (Ibid.)  
 
In the amended Subpoena, which was served
on August 22, 2024, Petitioner demanded
that TPOG produce the following categories of documents at the deposition:
 
(1)  
All
COMMUNICATIONS between YOU and METRO RELATED TO the physical interaction
between the STATION and the WG PROJECT or the WG PROPERTY.
(2)  
Unless
produced in response to Request No. 1, all DOCUMENTS RELATED TO the physical
interaction between the STATION and the WG PROJECT or the WG PROPERTY.
 
(3)  
Unless
produced in response to Request Nos. 1 or 2, all DOCUMENTS and COMMUNICATIONS
RELATED TO the ability of the STATION to withstand static and seismic loads
from the WG PROJECT in its current design.
 
(4)  
Unless
produced in response to Request Nos. 1 or 2, all DOCUMENTS and COMMUNICATIONS
RELATED TO any redesign of the STATION to withstand static and seismic loads
from the WG PROJECT in its current design.
 
(5)  
Unless
produced in response to Request Nos. 1 or 2, all DOCUMENTS and COMMUNICATIONS
RELATED TO the potential use of mechanisms commonly referred to as tiebacks as
a method of excavation support for construction of the STATION on Lot 36 and
under Wilshire Boulevard, and any resulting pressures placed upon the WG
PROPERTY.
 
(6)  
Unless
produced in response to Request Nos. 1 or 2, all DOCUMENTS and COMMUNICATIONS
RELATED TO the use of mechanisms commonly referred to as struts as a method of
excavation support for construction of the STATION on Lot 36 and under Wilshire
Boulevard, and any resulting pressures placed upon the WG PROPERTY.
 
Petitioner also seeks to depose TPOG on the following
topics:
 
(1)  
The
structural design of the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority (“Metro”) Westwood/UCLA subway station, including those station
facilities located on UCLA's Lot 36 (the “Station”).
 
(2)  
The
expected physical interaction of the Station structure with the structural
design of the adjacent high-rise building (the “Wilshire Gayley Project”) to be
constructed at the northwest corner of Wilshire Boulevard and Gayley Avenue in
Westwood (the “Wilshire Gayley Property”).
 
(3)  
The
ability of the Station to be redesigned to accommodate loads imposed by the
Wilshire Gayley Project, assuming that project is constructed pursuant to its
current design, and methods for achieving the same.
 
(4)  
The
ability to alleviate the pressures imposed by the Station’s support of
excavation system on the Wilshire Gayley Property, and methods for achieving
the same, such that the construction of the Wilshire Gayley Project in its
current design would be able to occur simultaneously with Station construction.
 


 
EVIDENTIARY ISSUES 
 
The
court grants Metro’s request for judicial notice of: (1) the third amended
petition in this action; (2) Petitioner’s complaint for inverse condemnation,
nuisance, dangerous condition of public property, and declaratory relief in
LASC Case Number 23STCV22106; and (3) the notice of ruling on Metro’s motion
for stay in LASC Case Number 23STCV22106. 

 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2017.010 provides: “Unless otherwise
limited by order of the court in accordance with this title, any party may
obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the
subject matter involved in the pending action or to the determination of any
motion made in that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in
evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010 [bold italics added].)  An “action” includes “a civil action and a
special proceeding of a civil nature.” 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2016.020(a).)  
 
“In the context of discovery, evidence is ‘relevant’ if it might
reasonably assist a party in evaluating its case, preparing for trial, or
facilitating a settlement.  Admissibility
is not the test, and it is sufficient if the information
sought might reasonably lead to other, admissible evidence.”  (Glenfed Development Corp. v. Sup. Ct. (1997) 53
Cal.App.4th 1113, 1117; accord Volkswagen of America, Inc. v. Sup. Ct.
(2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 1481, 1497 [“California's liberal approach to permissible
discovery generally has led the courts to resolve any doubt in favor of
permitting discovery.”].)  “This standard … is equally applicable to discovery of information from
a nonparty as it is to parties in the pending suit.”  (Johnson v. Sup. Ct. (2000) 80
Cal.App.4th 1050, 1062.)  
 
For good cause shown, the court may enter a protective order or an order
quashing a subpoena to prevent unwarranted annoyances, embarrassment,
oppression, undue burden, and expense in discovery.  (Fireman’s
Fund Ins. Co. v. Sup. Ct. (1991) 233 Cal.App.3d 1138, 1141; see also Code
Civ. Proc. § 2025.420(b), § 2017.020(a), § 1987.1.)  Moving parties have the burden to show good
cause for a protective order or an order quashing a deposition subpoena. (See Emerson Elec. Co. v. Sup. Ct. (1997) 16
Cal.4th 1101, 1110; Weil & Brown, Civ. Pro. Before Trial (The Rutter Group
2011) ¶ 8:689.) 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
A.        Requests for Production
(“RFPs”) 
 
Metro
objects to every RFP and Deposition Categories 1 through 4 on the following
grounds: 
 
Objection.
Respondent objects that the category is overbroad and not reasonably
particularized as required. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.230.) Respondent further
objects that the category for document request goes beyond the scope of
discovery permitted under traditional mandamus proceedings and extra-record
evidence is not admissible in this Writ Proceeding. (San Joaquin City v.
Superior Court, supra, 162 Cal.App.4th at p. 167, citing, Carrancho v.
California Air Resources Board, supra, 111 Cal.App.4th at p. 1269.)
Respondent further objects that the category for document request is not
relevant, not likely to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, and has
nothing to do with Respondent’s alleged mandatable duties. Respondent further
objects that the lack of probative value is severely outweighed by the burden
placed on nonparty TPOG. In addition, Respondent objects that it will be
prejudiced because the relevancy of these documents are not likely to lead to
the discovery of admissible evidence, and does not outweigh the significant
amount of time and expense that will be placed on Respondent to process these
irrelevant documents just prior to completing the briefings in this Writ
Proceeding. Furthermore, Respondent objects that the category for document request
is not relevant and not likely to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence
and is meant to try and subvert the stay of discovery ordered by the court in
Los Angeles Superior Court, Case No. 23STCV22106.  
 
(See
Respondent’s Separate Statement 17-34.)  
 
                        1.         Extra-Record Evidence and Scope of
Discovery – Overruled  
 
Metro
contends that the writ petition challenges “quasi-legislative acts,” which “involve
the adoption of rules of general application on the basis of
broad public policy.”  (California
Manufacturers & Technology Assn. v. Office of Environmental Health Hazard
Assessment (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 756, 776.) 
For example, public agencies’ decisions concerning the location of
public improvements, like the route of a highway or the location of a prison, are
quasi-legislative in nature.  (See Oceanside Marina
Towers Ass’n v. Oceanside Community Development Commission (1986) 187
Cal.App.3d 735, 746.)  Accordingly, Metro
argues that the court’s review is limited to the administrative record and thus
discovery is not appropriate.  
 
“An
unbroken line of cases holds that, in traditional mandamus actions challenging
quasi-legislative administrative decisions, evidence outside the administrative
record ‘extra-record evidence’ is not admissible.”  (Carrancho
v. California Air Resources Board (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1255, 1269, citations
omitted.)   Accordingly, in such
cases, “discovery is usually not necessary.” 
(San Joaquin County Local Agency Formation Commission v. Sup.Ct. (2008)
162 CalApp.4th 159, 167.)  
 
            Nevertheless, discovery is
permissible in the instant case.  These
restrictions do not apply  to ministerial
or informal administrative actions.  As
stated by our Supreme Court: “[W]e will continue to allow admission of
extra-record evidence in traditional mandamus actions challenging ministerial
or informal administrative actions if the facts are in dispute.”  (Western States
Petroleum Assn. v. Superior Court (1995) 9 Cal.4th 559, 576.)  This is because “when the courts are asked to
review ministerial or informal administrative actions, … there is often little
or no administrative record in such cases.”  (Id. at
575.)  
 
Moreover, there is an exception for extra-record evidence
in traditional mandamus proceedings involving quasi-legislative decisions “in which (1) the
evidence in question existed before the
agency made its decision, and (2) it was not possible in the exercise of
reasonable diligence to present this evidence to the agency before the decision was made so that it could be
considered and included in the administrative record.”  (Western
States, supra, 9 Cal.4th 559, 578.)  
 
Finally,
extra-record evidence may be
admissible and “relevant to (1) issues other than the validity of the agency’s
quasi-legislative decision, such as the petitioner’s standing and capacity to
sue, (2) affirmative defenses such as laches, estoppel and res judicata, (3)
the accuracy of the administrative record, (4) procedural unfairness, and (5)
agency misconduct.”  (Id. at 579,
fn. 5.)  
 
Here,
Petitioner seeks discovery from TPOG to support its second cause of action,
which alleges that Metro failed to account for the Project in its design of its
support of excavation plans and in its permanent design of the Station, in
violation of Metro’s duty to do so as set forth in Metro Rail Design Criteria
(“MRDC”).  (TAP ¶¶ 114-137.)  The third amended petition (“TAP”) alleges
that section 5 of the MRDC requires Metro projects to follow several design
rules, including the following:
 
A minimum [earth]
surcharge load of 400 psf shall be used in the design of tunnels and
underground structures. If there is a potential for future development
adjacent to the tunnels and underground structures, the surcharge from the
actual development shall be used in the design of the structure. In
lieu of a well defined loading, a minimum value of 1000 psf shall be used when
future development is a possibility.
 
            ….[¶¶]
 
Tunnel “liners
shall be designed to sustain all the loads to which they will be subjected with
adequate factors of safety. Such loads shall include: . . . Surcharge loads due
to adjacent buildings.”
 
(TAP
¶ 127, emphasis in original.)  The TAP alleges
the following:
 
131. Metro
possessed actual surcharge information about the Project since receiving the
Leighton Surcharge Report in September 2020, which was provided during the
precise period of time during which the Station design was scheduled to undergo
seismic analysis and analysis of adjacent existing structures.
 
132. Metro
received additional information about the Project’s surcharge and bearing
pressures between October 2020 and March 2021, at which time the Station design
was still in early stages. 
 
133.
Yet Metro has never accounted for the Project in its design of the Station.
 
(TAP
¶¶ 131-133.)
 
            In its ruling on demurrer, the court
concluded that these allegations are sufficient to plead that Metro did not
comply with the MRDC in its design of the Station and that it has a ministerial
duty to do so.  (Court’s Order dated July 9, 2024.)  These allegations also suggest that
Petitioner challenges, at least in part, informal action of Metro, i.e., Metro’s
alleged failure to account for the structural and seismic loading of the
Project in its design of the Station and “support for excavation” plans.  In its motion to quash, Metro has not cited
any case law stating that an agency’s failure to comply with its allegedly
mandatory design rules, for a specific project, implicates a quasi-legislative decision.  Notably, Metro acknowledges that “there is no
traditional administrative record in this case.” (Mot. 6:14-18.)  Presumably, if Petitioner challenged a
quasi-legislative decision, Metro would have prepared an administrative
record.  
 
Further, even if arguendo Petitioner
challenges a quasi-legislative decision, there are factual disputes concerning
whether Metro had a ministerial duty to comply with the MRDC and whether it complied
with that duty.  As Metro acknowledges, “extra-record
evidence may be appropriate in traditional mandamus actions, if the facts are
in dispute.”  (Mot. 6:3-5.)  
 
For all these reasons, Metro’s objection
based on Western States and related case law is overruled.  At the discovery
stage, the court does not make final determinations as to the admissibility of
any evidence that Petitioner may obtain from the Subpoena or whether the trial
evidence should be strictly limited to an administrative record.  The court only concludes that Petitioner is
not barred by Western States and related case law from conducting
discovery in this writ action.  
 
2.         Relevance – Overruled 
 
Metro argues that the Subpoena should be
quashed because “what TPOG did or did not do, knew or did not know, or was told
or was not told, has nothing to do with Metro’s allegedly mandatable
duty.”  (Mot. 3:5-6.)    
 
“In the context of discovery, evidence is
‘relevant’ if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating its case,
preparing for trial, or facilitating a settlement. Admissibility is not the
test….”  (Glenfed Development
Corp. v. Sup. Ct. (1997)
53 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1117.)  Here, Petitioner
submits evidence that Metro had discussions with TPOG of how to account for the
Project in the Station design, and that the MRDC was referenced in those
discussions.  (See Oppo. 8-9; Stromberg
Decl. Exh. E at 38-39.)  Petitioner also submits
evidence that the Station Design-Build Contract expressly required TPOG to
coordinate with Metro regarding the Project. 
(Stromberg Decl. Exh. F at 41 [§ 1.04.B.2]; see also TAP ¶¶ 119-137.)  Based on this evidence and related
allegations from the TAP, Petitioner has shown that communications between TPOG
and Metro relating to the physical interaction between the Station and the Project
or the Project site are reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence for Petitioner’s claim that Metro failed to comply with
design standards in the MRDC.
 
As
Petitioner argues, the information that Petitioner seeks from TPOG may also “assist
Petitioner in assessing the viability and appropriateness of the relief it
seeks—for the Station to be redesigned now to accommodate the actual surcharge
from Petitioner’s adjacent project as required by the MRDC.”  (Oppo. 9:5-7.)  In an equitable writ proceeding, the trial
judge has discretion to fashion the appropriate remedy and may consider whether
the requested relief will be effective.  (See
Bruce v. Gregory (1967) 65 Cal.2d 666, 671.)  The subpoena appears reasonably calculated to
discover evidence from TPOG, the contractor hired by Metro to design and build
the Station, about whether the Station and/or plans for support of excavation can
and should be redesigned to accommodate the actual surcharge from the
Project.  (See RFPs Nos. 1-4 and Deposition
Topics Nos. 3-4.)  Such evidence may be
relevant and admissible for any determination of remedy made by the court after
trial.  
 
3.         Overbroad and Burden Placed on Nonparty
TPOG – Overruled 
 
Metro contends that the Subpoena “is so broad it cannot be said to call for
information reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.”  (Mot. 7:2-3.)  Metro asserts that the Subpoena amounts “to a
demand for TPOG to produce almost everything in its possession.”  (Id. 7:10-11.)  Relatedly, Metro contends that the probative
value of the documents sought is greatly outweighed by the burden placed on
TPOG.  (Id. 8-9.)
 
These arguments
are not persuasive.  As an initial
matter, TPOG has not joined in the motion to quash and does not raise any issue
concerning burden.  It is unclear how
Metro has standing to assert this objection on behalf of TPOG.  Regardless, the RFPs do not seek “everything
related to the Station and the WG Property,” as Metro contends.  (Mot. 9:4.)  In the amended subpoena, RFPs 1 and 2 seek
communications between TPOG and Metro related to the “physical interaction”
between the Station and Project.  RFPs 3
and 4 seek documents related to the ability of the Station or “any redesign”
thereof to withstand static and seismic loads from the Project.  RFPs 5 and 6 seek documents related to
“pressures placed upon” the Project by certain methods for excavation support.  (Stromberg Decl. Exh. D.)  Metro submits no evidence that any burdens on
TPOG would outweigh the probative value of the Subpoena.[1] 
 
Metro’s reliance
on Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th
216, is misplaced.  (See Mot. 8-9.)  Calcor involved a much broader subpoena
that “might as well be condensed into a single sentence: Produce everything in
your possession which in any way relates to gun mounts.”  (Calcor, supra at 222.)  Here, in contrast, the RFPs are narrowly drafted to seek technical
information related to Petitioner’s claim that Metro did not comply with the
MRDC in its design of the Station and its plans for excavation support,
including because Metro allegedly did not consider the structural and seismic loading of the Project.   
 
            4.         Stay
of Discovery in the Damages Action – Overruled
 
Metro
contends that “[s]ervice of the Subpoena in this case represents an improper
attempt by WG to work around the court-ordered stay of discovery in the Damages
Action.”  (Mot. 9.)  There is nothing in the record to suggest
that this subpoena is a subterfuge.  As
discussed, Petitioner is entitled to seek the discovery referenced in the
amended subpoena.    

            5.         Prejudice
to Metro – Overruled 
 
Metro
argues that it “will be prejudiced if the Subpoena is allowed to go forward
because the information sought in the Subpoena is not relevant, and not likely
to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence and does not outweigh the
significant time and expense that will be placed on LACMTA to process this
widely overbroad and irrelevant information just prior to completing its trial
brief in this Writ Proceeding.”  (Mot.
9-10.)  The court overrules this
objection for the reasons discussed above. 
The court notes that the timing does not appear to prejudice Metro.  Metro’s opposition is not due until November
4, 2024, and the parties have agreed that the deposition will go forward on
September 17, 2024.  (Stromberg Decl. ¶
5.)  Nevertheless, the remedy is a
continuance of the opposition deadline and/or the trial date, not a grant of
the motion.  
 
            6.         Additional
Objections to RFPs 3 and 4 – Overruled  
 
Metro
argues that RFPs 3 and 4 seek evidence that is not in
dispute because “Metro has already admitted in discovery that it used the 1,000
psf surcharge, and not the alleged actual surcharge.”  (Mot. 7:21-22.)  Thus, Metro contends that these RFPs are not
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.  Metro does not submit a copy of the discovery
responses that it refers to in this argument. 
Regardless, RFPs 3 and 4 do not simply seek an admission that Metro “used
the 1,000 psf surcharge, and not the alleged actual surcharge.”  These RFPs also seek discovery concerning the
“ability” of the Station, as designed or in any “redesign,” to “withstand
static and seismic loads” from the Project. 
This discovery is reasonable calculated to lead to discovery of
admissible evidence concerning the viability of certain writ relief that
Petitioner seeks in this action, i.e., a writ “compelling Metro to
comply with the Metro Design Criteria by ensuring that (a) the Station and
related structures are designed to withstand the loading from the Project,
including its static and dynamic pressures; [and] (b) Metro’s
temporary works for support of excavation are designed so as not to exert loads
on the WG Property.”  (TAP
Prayer ¶ 2.)  Metro is free to execute a
stipulation proposed by Petitioner to circumvent the need for this
discovery.   
 
            7.         Additional Objections to RFPs 5 and 6 
 
Finally, Metro argues that RFPs 5 and 6 “seek everything
related to the use of tiebacks and struts by TPOG. There is no mandatable duty
that either tiebacks, struts, or another method should be used. The decision to
use one or the other is based on a multitude of expert engineering factors, and
thus this is clearly a discretionary, engineering decision, which is not
relevant and not likely to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence as to
Metro’s alleged mandatable duties. Moreover, Petitioner already asked
Respondent about these topics in discovery, and Respondent responded.
Therefore, this discovery is duplicative, making it especially inappropriate
and burdensome on a non-party.”  (Mot.
7-8.)  Metro
does not submit a copy of the discovery responses that it refers to in this
argument.  Regardless, as Petitioner
argues, RFPs 5 and 6 are reasonably calculated to inform on whether Metro chose
a particular method of “excavation support” and the “resulting pressures placed
upon” the Project site.  (Oppo. 13-14,
citing Stromberg Decl. Exh. G at 44-45.) 
Such information is reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence concerning the claim that Metro did not comply with alleged
mandatory duties under the MRDC.  The
information may also be relevant to the viability of the remedies prayed for in
the TAP.  That Petitioner requested similar
information from Metro does not prevent it from exploring whether TPOG has
different or further information.  Metro is free to execute a stipulation proposed by Petitioner to
circumvent the need for this discovery.   
 
            B.        Deposition Categories 
 
Petitioner seeks to depose TPOG’s person most qualified on topics
related to the documents requested in RFPs 1 through 6, including the expected
“physical interaction” of the Station and the Project and the ability of the
Station to be redesigned to accommodate loads imposed by the Project.  Metro does not advance any independent
arguments with respect to these deposition categories.  The court denies the motion with respect to
the deposition categories for the reasons discussed above.
 
C.        Metro’s Reply Brief 
 
Metro does not respond to Petitioner’s arguments that this writ action
concerns informal action of Metro such that the limitations on discovery discussed
in Western States do not apply.  (See
Sehulster Tunnels/Pre-Con v. Traylor
Brothers, Inc. (2003)
111 Cal.App.4th 1328, 1345, fn. 16 [failure to address point is “equivalent to
a concession”].)  Nor does Metro claim
there is an administrative record that would obviate the need for the
subpoena.  
 
Metro argues that Petitioner can obtain the requested information
directly from Metro.  That
Petitioner may have obtained some relevant evidence from Metro does not prove
that the Subpoena is irrelevant, unduly burdensome, or otherwise improper.  To the contrary, Metro’s argument suggests
that discovery is relevant to this proceeding. 
TPOG, as the design/build contractor, may have additional or further
information relevant to Petitioner’s writ claims and the remedies sought.  Metro does not dispute that TPOG, as the design/build contractor hired by
Metro, has a contractual obligation and actual involvement with the Station
design as it relates to the Project.  (See
Oppo. 8-9.)  
 
Finally,
Metro raises several arguments concerning the merits of the petition.  The court does not decide merits arguments
on a discovery motion.  The court has
already concluded, in its ruling on demurrer, that Petitioner has alleged the
elements of a cause of action for traditional mandate, including a ministerial
duty.  
  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the court order as follows:
 
            1.         The court denies Metro’s motion to
quash.
            
            2.         TPOG shall produce verified responses
to the Requests for Production on or before __________, 2024, unless the
parties stipulate to a different date.  
 
            3.         The deposition of TPOG’s person most
qualified shall proceed on September 17, 2024, unless the parties stipulate to
a different date.   
 
            4.         Petitioner’s counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of service with the court.  
 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED 
 
 
Dated: September
13, 2024                
                                                                                    ______________________

                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge 


