  Case Number:  20STCV44865    Hearing Date:   January 26, 2024    Dept:  F49 Dept.
F-49
Date:
1-26-24
Case
# 20STCV44865
Trial
Date: 4-22-24
 
SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
MOVING
PARTIES: Defendants Saugus Union High School District and Gina Nolte
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff Solomon Perkins
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Summary
Adjudication on the First Amended Complaint
·        
1st
Cause of Action: Negligence
·        
2nd
Cause of Action: Negligent Supervision, Training and/or Retention
·        
3rd
Cause of Action: Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
On
February 13, 2020, Plaintiff Solomon Perkins, a student at Tesoro Del Valle
Elementary School, a school campus within the territory of Defendant Saugus
Union School District (Saugus Union), was an enrolled student on campus, when a
fellow classmate, “Tobin,” reported to a staff member on campus that Plaintiff
was carrying a gun in his backpack. According to the complaint, Plaintiff told
Tobin he had a “Nerf-Slingshot gun” with him, which led to the
misrepresentation of an actual gun.
 
Following
the report, Plaintiff’s backpack was examined by school principal, defendant
Gina Nolte. The search revealed no actual firearm or slingshot gun. Nolte
subsequently contacted the Los Angeles County Sheriff, and the “mental health
department.” According to the complaint, the mental health department
“attempted to commit Plaintiff.” 
 
Although
Plaintiff’s mother, Thea Perkins, was apparently contacted and came to the
school campus, prior to her arrival, the Sheriff’s Department interrogated
Plaintiff. No other adult acting on Plaintiff’s behalf was present. Upon Thea
Perkins arriving at campus, both Plaintiff and his mother were involuntarily
detained on the premises, until they were both escorted off the premises by
armed deputies. 
 
On
November 23, 2020, Plaintiff filed his original complaint with ten causes of
action. On October 28, 2021, Plaintiff filed an eleven cause of action First Amended
Complaint for Negligence, Negligent Supervision, Training and/or Retention,
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, Violation of California Education
Code sections 200, 201, 220 and 260 – Discrimination on the Basis of
Disability, Violation of Equal Protection Clause of the California
Constitution, False Imprisonment, Violation of Americans with Disability Act,
Violation of California Government Code section 11135 – Discrimination Based on
Disability, Violation of 42 USC section 1983 – Violation of the Equal
Protection Clause, Violation of 42 USC section 1983 – Deprivation of Civil
Rights, and, Violation of 42 USC section 1983 –Monell Violations. 
 
On
December 4, 2023, this Court heard the motion for summary judgment filed by
Defendants. The Court denied the motion in part, granted it in part, and
continued the hearing on the first three causes of action for negligence;
negligent supervision, training, and/or retention; and intentional infliction
of emotional distress for further briefing.
 
Defendants
filed their supplemental brief by the Court’s deadline on January 12, 2024. The
deadline for Plaintiff’s brief was January 19. Plaintiff filed his supplemental
brief late on January 22.
 
RULING: Granted for the
First, Second, and Third Causes of Action
 
Defendant’s
evidentiary objection to the Gina Nolte deposition: 
Sustained
on the basis that it assumes facts not in evidence and is not relevant
 
Defendants
Saugus Union High School District, and Gina Nolte move for summary adjudication
on the first through third causes of action for Negligence; Negligent
Supervision, Training and/or Retention; and Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress. Defendants, in their supplemental brief, argue that Defendants are
immune from liability for the three causes of action. Plaintiff argues in his
supplemental brief that Civ. Code § 47 does not apply, and Defendants’ Section
820.2 arguments should be disregarded.
 
The pleadings frame the issues for motions, “since it is those
allegations to which the motion must respond. (Citation.)”  (Scolinos
v. Kolts (1995) 37 Cal. App. 4th 635, 640-641; FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 382-383; Jordan-Lyon Prods., LTD. v. Cineplex Odeon Corp. (1994) 29
Cal.App.4th 1459, 1472.) The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the
parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations,
trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  
 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is
always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf
v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant
moving for summary judgment “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause
of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established.” 
(CCP § 437c(p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or
more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) 

 
“When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court
must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to
which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable
inference that may be drawn form that evidence, in the light most favorable to
the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 463, 467; see also CCP § 437c(c).) “An issue of fact can
only be created by a conflict in the evidence. 
It is not created by speculation, conjecture, imagination or guesswork.”
(Lyons v. Security Pacific National Bank
(1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1001, 1041 (citation omitted).)
 
1st
Cause of Action, Negligence: Granted
2nd
Cause of Action, Negligent Supervision, Training and/or Retention: Granted
3rd
Cause of Action, Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress: Granted
 
Defendants
moves for summary adjudication on grounds that the conduct of Principal Gina
Nolte of Tesoro Elementary School constitutes an action protected by litigation
privilege thereby immunizing Defendants from liability for the Negligence,
Negligent Supervision, Training and/or Retention, and Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress causes of action.
 
While the Court previously found
that the litigation privilege in Civ. Code § 47 exists, the extent of its
applicability to this case was unclear from the parties’ arguments.
 
Nolte
states in declaration that while no gun was discovered in the backpack of
Solomon, Nolte was unaware of whether Solomon otherwise had potential access to
a firearm at home, and therefore called the Sheriff. School safety regulations
require the reporting any potential threat of extreme violence. The decision
was also based on the purported admission of Solomon regarding his admission to
shoot everyone in his class, except for two friends, and confirmation from
another classmate. [Declaration of Gina Nolte, ¶¶ 14-21, 23.]
 
The
Court previously found that the 2020 version of Civ. Code § 47 was applicable
at the time of the incident. Under the 2020 version, the litigation privilege was
absolute and that no exceptions applied to the report that Nolte made to the
Sheriff.
 
However, the three causes of action allege more than just
conduct related to the police and mental health services report. Courts must “draw a careful
distinction between a cause of action based squarely on a privileged
communication…and one based upon an underlying course of conduct evidenced by
the communication.” (White v. Western Title Ins. Co. (1985) 40 Cal.3d
870, 888.) “‘The distinction between communicative and noncommunicative
conduct hinges on the gravamen of the action... [T]he key in determining
whether the privilege applies is whether the injury allegedly resulted from an
act that was communicative in its essential nature.’ (Citations.) Notably, ‘if
the gravamen of the action is communicative, the litigation privilege extends
to noncommunicative acts that are necessarily related to the communicative
conduct.’ (Citations.) To show that the litigation privilege does not apply,
the burden is on the plaintiff to demonstrate that ‘an independent, noncommunicative,
wrongful act was the gravamen of the action.’” (Mireskandari v. Gallagher
(2020) 59 Cal.App.5th 346, 369 (internal quotation marks omitted).)
 
The original motion lacked arguments on the differences in articulated
conduct underpinning the three challenged causes of action, while Plaintiff sought
to distinguish the conduct based at least on part on the damages claims arising
from conduct beyond the phone call itself. Paragraph 32 of the operative
complaint presents a series of claims originating from the report of the fellow
second grade student. The student statement triggered a search, phone call, and
placement of Solomon into a separate space for questioning by the Sheriff. 
 
The intent of the statute is to provide protection from
potential reprisal and encourage the reporting of illegal, including
threatening, activity. (Wise v. Thrifty Payless, Inc., supra, 83
Cal.App.4th at p. 1303; Braun v. Bureau of State Audits, supra,
67 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1390–1391.) The court interprets the protection narrowly
in that while communicative acts (e.g., the reporting) clearly constitutes a
protected activity, the privilege in no way shields a party from all potential
claims tangentially related damages. (Kimmel v. Goland (1990) 51 Cal.3d
202, 211 [“a review of the myriad cases that have applied section 47(2) to
shield defendants from liability demonstrates that, without exception, the
privilege has applied only to torts arising from statements or publications”]; Mancini
& Associates v. Schwetz (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 656, 661 [“Civil Code
section 47, subdivision (b) applies only to communicative acts and does not
apply to tortious courses of conduct”].) The law interpreting privileged
communications in no way excuses other claims of tortious conduct even if the
communication initially prompts the pathway. 
 
The Court must distinguish between the conduct of Principal
Nolte and the subsequent conduct of the Sheriff in taking over the questioning.
While Plaintiff seeks to assert separate damages as a result of the entire
incident, such an argument lacks factual distinction between the conduct of Principal
Nolte and the responding sheriffs. The conduct essentially constitutes
allegations arising from the detention of a student pending a safety
investigation and the flowing emotional distress of the incident. Under the
gravamen of the complaint standard, the distinction between the search,
detention and report to the Sheriff, and the subsequent assumption of the
investigation by the Sheriff presents distinctive differences in the conduct
between the principal and law enforcement. The Court found the distinction
critical in that statutory and case law vests a school administrator with
certain rights and privileges, especially in situations involving student well-being
and safety.
 
The
original motion and reply lacked arguments regarding both the potential
extension of the absolute privilege standard to the moments leading to the
turnover of Solomon to the Sheriff, as well as other protections arising from
Nolte exercising rights as a principal of the school separate and apart from
the absolutely privileged conduct of the report. The Court therefore invited
supplemental briefing on the First, Second and Third Causes of Action regarding
the extension of the litigation privilege and/or any other potentially
applicable immunity. The Court sought briefing only on the conduct of Principal
Nolte acting on behalf of Saugus Union High School District, regarding the
search, questioning, and detention of Solomon, while Solomon was on the school
campus as an enrolled student.
 
In
their supplemental brief, Defendants argue that Civ. Code § 47 broadly applies
to Principal Nolte’s actions preceding her call to the Sheriff because those
acts were a necessary precedent to that call. Defendants also argue that Gov.
Code § 820.2 and the federal Coverdell Teach Protection Act of 2011, 20 U.S.C.
§ 6731, also immunize Nolte. 
 
Nolte’s
report to the Sheriff was privileged. Mireskandari v. Gallagher (2020)
59 Cal.App.5th 346, 369, as modified on denial of reh’g (Jan. 21, 2021), and Dwight
R. v. Christy B. (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 697, 702-03 stand for the
proposition that acts done in preparation of a privileged act are also
privileged. In Mireskandari, the Court of Appeal held that the act of
forwarding medical records to a third party is communicating them and therefore
the Civ. Code § 47 immunizes the defendants from liability. (Mireskandari,
59 Cal App.5th at 369-370.) Additionally, in Dwight, acts done in
anticipation of official proceedings are protected activities. (Dwight,
212 Cal.App.4th at 710-11.)
 
Further,
“‘if the gravamen of the action is communicative, the litigation privilege
extends to noncommunicative acts that are necessarily related to the
communicative conduct.... Stated another way, unless it is demonstrated that an
independent, noncommunicative, wrongful act was the gravamen of the action, the
litigation privilege applies.’ (Citation.)” (Jacob B. v. County of Shasta
(2007) 40 Cal.4th 948, 957.) Finally, “because ‘the cause of action is based on
a communicative act, the litigation privilege extends to those noncommunicative
actions which are necessarily related to that communicative act.’ (Citation.)”
(Id.)
 
The
gravamen of the action was a communication act: Nolte’s report to the Sheriff.
The litigation privilege would apply to this act. Based on the above cited
cases, Nolte’s actions prior to making the report to the Sheriff, such as
searching Plaintiff’s backpack, would be protected activities. Those activities
were preparatory and were done in anticipation of official proceedings, which
was, in this case, making the report to the Sheriff. Further, those acts
necessarily related to the act of making the report to the Sheriff.
 
Additionally,
the privilege would apply to all three of the causes of action at issue because
“it is the gravamen of the cause of action rather than its designation that is
controlling.” (McNair v. City and County of San Francisco (2016) 5
Cal.App.5th 1154, 1171.) Because the gravamen of the first three causes of
action was the call to the Sheriff, then the privilege would apply to all three
causes of action.
 
The
arguments in Plaintiff’s brief attempt to go beyond the scope of the
supplemental briefing that the Court asked for. The Court requested
supplemental briefing on Nolte’s actions prior to her making the report to the Sheriff.
Instead, Plaintiff introduces new facts from Nolte’s deposition regarding what
happened after the sheriffs left and how long Plaintiff was detained in Nolte’s
office. Plaintiff also fails to provide any argument for how these new facts
affect the application of Civ. Code § 47 to Defendants’ conduct prior to the
report, which is what is at issue here. The Court also sustained Defendants’
evidentiary objections to Nolte’s deposition.
 
Next,
Cal. Gov. Code § 820.2 gives public employees immunity from liability when
their act or omission was the result of an exercise of discretion vested in
them. Coverdell, 20 U.S.C. § 6731 et seq., also gives teachers and
principals liability protection when their actions are in conformity with the
law and were in furtherance of efforts to control, discipline, etc., a student.
(20 U.S.C. § 7943.) Defendants argue that Nolte’s actions would also be immune
from liability under these laws.
 
Plaintiff
argues that the Court did not request brief on Gov. Code § 820.2. However, the
Court had asked for briefing on any other potential immunity, beyond Civ. Code
§ 47. Plaintiff next argues that Section 820.2 is inapplicable. Plaintiff
points to a distinction drawn between policy making or planning decisions on
one side and ministerial or operational decisions on the other. Planning
decisions are immune while operational decisions are not immune. (Perez-Torres
v. State of Cal. (2007) 42 Cal. 4th 136, 142-43.) Plaintiff argues that
Nolte’s actions were ministerial or operational and would therefore not fall
under the immunity granted by Gov. Code § 820.2.
 
When
determining whether a government official is liable for torts, an act is
“ministerial” where law prescribes and defines duties to be performed with such
precision and certainty as to leave nothing to the exercise of discretion or
judgment but not where the act involves exercise of discretion or judgment. (See
Glickman v. Glasner (1964) 230 Cal.App.2d 120.)
 
Per
school policy, Nolte conducted a threat assessment after Plaintiff’s behavior
was reported to her. (Nolte Decl., ¶¶ 15 and 17.) During her conversation with
Plaintiff, he told her that he had stated that he was going to use a gun to
kill everyone in his class. (Nolte Decl., ¶ 18.) Nolte called the Sheriff upon
the advice of the school district superintendent, who advised her to do so
based on district protocol. (Nolte Decl., ¶¶ 19-20.) This policy is related to
the school policy on threat assessments. (Nolte Decl., ¶ 21.)
 
Based
on this sequence of events, it does not appear that much was left to Nolte’s
discretion. She was required to do the threat assessment and make the report to
the Sheriff. Perhaps the only discretionary action was calling the
superintendent. Otherwise, Nolte was following the duties prescribed to her by
school district policies. This would make her decisions ministerial in nature.
Because of this, immunity would not be available under Gov. Code § 820.2,
though it would still be available under Civ. Code § 47.
 
Based
on the foregoing, there is no triable issue of material fact for causes of
action one through three because of the immunity granted to Nolte. 
 
Defendants’
motion for summary adjudication is granted for the First, Second, and Third
Causes of Action.
 
Moving
party to give notice.