 Case Number:  23SMCV04284    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  I The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.  The discovery motions are MOOT.
 
Essentially, this is one of three related cases.  In a nutshell, Miles and Viridity intended on
entering into a business transaction. 
Miles retained Mashian’s law firm, MLG, to do the legal work and signed
a retainer agreement.  According to MLG,
it also had an agreement with Viridity by which Viridity would pay the
fee.  And Viridity did pay the initial
$5000 retainer.  Viridity claims it only
agreed to reimburse Miles for what Miles paid to MLG, and then only if the deal
went through.  Suffice it to say that the
deal did not go through and no one paid MLG’s bill.  That led MLG to sue both Viridity (which
settled with MLG) and Miles.  Miles sued
Mashian, MLG’s principal, claiming that Mashian failed to obtain informed
consent as to having Viridity be responsible for the bill.  Mashian has demurred.  In an earlier demurrer, the court sustained
the demurrer on the theory that Miles had not pled materiality, reliance, or
damage with sufficient particularity.  In
short, the court believed that even if one assumed that MLG had an obligation
to disclose the effect of having a third party be responsible for the bill the
disclosure would not likely be something that was material to Miles’s decision,
nor would it be reasonable for Miles to detrimentally rely on such a
disclosure—given that the disclosure would have been that Miles remained the
client—nor did the court see damages.  In
part, the court noted that the retainer agreement specifically stated that
Miles would be responsible for MLG’s bill. 
The court granted leave to amend. 
)The court notes that this case, or at least this issue, had been
pending before Judge Mandel, who made a series of rulings.  However, through various devices that the
court need not recount here, she is no longer the judge in this group of cases or
any of them.)
 
Miles amended by stating that the reason that it was
material was because MLG had a secret plan to bill both Viridity and Miles and
to take the entire fee from each—in essence, to double bill.  The fraud is that MLG (or Mashian) did not
disclose to Miles that it intended to commit a crime and double bill.  The court was of the view that such a theory
made no sense.  The fraud as alleged was that
MLG (or Mashian) failed to disclose that it planned to commit a crime by
billing and collecting from them both Viridity and Miles (somehow keeping the
scheme from both parties).  At least
absent more, the court did not see that as a viable theory.  But leave to amend was granted again.  In the meantime, the court stayed
discovery.  The court did so because the
court did not see a reasonable likelihood that Miles would be able to set forth
a legally cognizable theory.  Miles has
tried and Mashian has demurred again.
 
The court still does not believe there is a viable
theory.  There is not sufficient
specificity to give rise to a showing or a reasonable inference that Mashian
harbored an illegal intent to double bill. 
The fact that Mashian stated that both Miles and Viridity were
responsible for the bill is not an admission of criminal intent; it is a
statement that MLG could look to either or both for its fee.  But once a dollar was paid by one, there
would be one less dollar owed by the other. 
Had Miles paid the full fee, there is no reason to believe that MLG
would have looked to Viridity, or vice versa.
 
While the court must accept all well pleaded facts to be
true and also to draw all reasonable inferences in Miles’s favor, the
inferences must nonetheless be reasonable and, in this context, the facts must
be pled with particularity.  That means
that Miles must allege something more than a wild theory that MLG had a
double-billing intent; there must be facts alleged that would support such an
inference.  (Mashian notes that in fact
when Viridity paid the $5000 retainer, that amount was credited to the amount
owing and thus Miles was not billed for it. 
That is compelling evidence, but the court does not consider it on
demurrer.)  There are no such facts
alleged here.  The demurrer is SUSTAINED
WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
Miles also complains that discovery would have changed
things.  There is no reason to believe
that is so.  The closest Miles comes is
the notion that maybe Mashian was not properly insured at the time of the
contract—an unpled theory based entirely on speculation—and that discovery
would have disclosed that problem.  That
is not sufficient.  There is fishing, and
then there is fishing for Marlins in a puddle on the sidewalk.  The latter is not allowed and it is not
enough to overcome a demurrer.