 Case Number:  22SMCV02010    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  I This is an application to continue the MSJ.  Plaintiffs filed their MSJ on June 21,
2024.  The hearing is set for September
5, 2024.  The FSC is set for October 4,
2024, with the trial to begin on October 7, 2024.
 
Defendants’  theory is
that they need to depose the two plaintiffs and a third party.  Defendants complain that plaintiffs did not
agree to the dates that defendants set unilaterally and did not provide
alternative dates in a timely manner. 
Because the opposition is currently due on August 22, 2024, defendants
need the depositions to go forward immediately or to continue the MSJ.  The request is to continue the MSJ for at
least 30 days, which means that the trial will need to be continued as well.
 
This case was filed on October 20, 2022—almost two years
ago.  The trial date was set in July
2023, and the court admonished the parties of the need to be diligent on that
date.
 
On July 22, 2024, defendants sought—apparently for the first
time—to depose plaintiffs.  The
deposition notices they served set August 2 and August 5 as the two deposition
dates.  Defendants also served a subpoena
for a key third party witness.  That
deposition was to go forward on August 7, 2024. 
Plaintiffs claimed they were not available on the dates defendants had
noticed and due to an asserted emergency involving plaintiffs’ counsel the
third party deposition was cancelled as well. 
Plaintiffs did not immediately provide alternative dates.  At present, one plaintiff can be deposed on
August 20 and the other potentially on August 21.  The third party is to be deposed “shortly.”  According to the defense, plaintiffs only
provided these dates when the defense threatened to bring a motion.  Defense counsel is in trial and only has
August 20 and 21 available for the depositions because those two days are
“dark” in the trial department.
 
The court is somewhat concerned that this is an emergency of
defendants’ own making.  Despite
beginning the ex parte application with a broadside attack on
plaintiffs’ counsel’s ethics, defense counsel waited until virtually the last
minute to notice the depositions, set the dates unilaterally, and provided
minimal notice.  It is not really all
that shocking that the dates picked did not work.  It could be, of course, that there is more to
the story.  It could be that the defense
had been trying for months to get dates from plaintiffs.  If such is the situation, then defendants’
argument gets much stronger.  However, if
such is not the case, the court will strongly urge plaintiffs counsel to do
what is necessary to confirm the dates set and not to let them slide absent
surgery.  Absent some compelling
reason—like surgery—the court might well draw the inference that the real
reason the plaintiff cannot be deposed is because the testimony given would be
fatal to the motion.  As to the third
party, defense counsel will just have to do the best he can.
 
If that schedule is doable, the court will CONTINUE the MSJ
by one week to September 12, 2024 at 9:00, with opposition and reply tied to
the new hearing date.  The court, in its
discretion, will hear the motion less than 30 days before trial.  Rough transcripts may be used in lieu of
certified transcripts subject to the filing of the certified transcript when it
is available as to the upcoming depositions.
 
The court’s calendar is such that there is no such thing as
a “brief” trial continuance.
 