  Case Number:  22GDCV00985    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  V SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES – NORTHEAST DISTRICT DEPARTMENT V 
POOLED C. TCHANG, an individual, 
Plaintiff, 
vs. 
KIA AMERICA, INC., a California Corporation, and DOES 1
through 10, inclusive, 
Defendants.
Case No.: 22GDCV00985 
Hearing Date: May 9, 2024 Time: 9:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO
PLAINTIFF’S REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS 
 
MOVING PARTIES: Plaintiff POOLED C. TCHANG 
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant KIA AMERICA, INC. 
The court considered the moving papers, opposition and
reply. 


BACKGROUND
 Plaintiff Pooled C.
Tchang filed the complaint on December 9, 2022 alleging the following causes of
action: (1) violation of Song-Beverly Act – breach of express warranty; (2)
violation of Song-Beverly Act – breach of implied warranty; and (3) violation
of the Song[1]Beverly
Act section 1793.2. Plaintiff purchased a 2021 Kia Sorento (subject vehicle) on
December 24, 2020. Plaintiff alleges that the subject vehicle was delivered to
plaintiff with serious defects and nonconformities to warranty and developed other
serious defects and nonconformities to warranty including, but not limited to,
electrical, engine, and transmission system defects. 
Plaintiff filed the instant motion to compel further
responses on January 24, 2024. Defendant filed the opposition on April 26,
2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
With respect to requests for production of documents there
are three appropriate responses: (1) a statement that the party will comply
with the request; (2) a statement of inability to comply; or (3) an objection.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.210(a).) 
The requesting party may move for an order compelling
further responses to request for production of documents if any of the
following apply: (1) a statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete;
(2) a representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or
evasive; or (3) an objection in the response is without merit or too general.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(a).) 
 
The motion must be filed within 45 days from verified
responses, supplemental verified responses, or a specific later date agreed to
in writing (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(c).) Failure to make motion within the
specified period constitutes waiver of right to compel a further response.
(Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.) The time period is
mandatory and jurisdictional in the sense that it renders the Court without
authority to rule on motions to compel other than to deny them. (Id.) 
The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Code of Civil Procedure section 2016.040. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310(b)(2).) The purpose of the meet and confer requirement is to encourage
the parties to make serious effort to work out differences informally and avoid
a need for a formal order. (Stewart v. Colonial Western Agency, Inc. (2001) 87
Cal. App. 4th 1006, 1016.) 
Under Rule of Court 3.1345, the movant must submit a
separate statement along with the motion to compel further responses. The
movant must include specific facts showing good cause justifying further
responses. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(b)(1).) 
DISCUSSION 
A.     
Timeliness
 Defendant served
unverified responses to plaintiff’s request for production set one on March 10,
2023. Plaintiff filed the instant motion on January 24, 2024. Because defendant
served unverified responses, the clock did not start on the 45-day requirement.
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310(c), a party has 45-days to file
a motion to compel further responses from the date verified responses were
served. Defendant served the verification on plaintiff on January 26, 2024.
(Decl. of Douglas Proudfoot, Exh. A.) Accordingly, plaintiff’s instant motion
is timely. 
 
B.     
Meet and Confer 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310(b)(2), the
parties are required to meet and confer prior to filing a motion to compel
further responses and are required to file a declaration stating facts showing
a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution. Plaintiff’s
counsel sent a meet and confer letter to defendant’s counsel on April 4, 2023
regarding the issues plaintiff had with defendant's responses to plaintiff’s
requests for production (set one). (Decl. of Gregory Sogoyan, ¶ 19; Decl. of
Douglas Proudfoot, ¶ 5.) On May 5, 2023, defendant’s counsel responded to
plaintiff’s counsel’s meet and confer letter standing by its objections and
claiming defendant’s responses were satisfactory. (Decl. of Gregory Sogoyan, ¶
23; Decl. of Douglas Proudfoot, ¶ 6.) On June 8, 2023, plaintiff’s counsel sent
a further meet and confer email to defendant’s counsel regarding defendant's
responses. (Decl. of Douglas Proudfoot, ¶ 7.) On June 9, 2023, defendant
responded to plaintiff’s counsel’s June 8 email addressing plaintiff’s issues
and offering to discuss further via telephone. (Decl. of Douglas Proudfoot, ¶
8.) 
 
The court finds that plaintiff did not make a good faith
effort to resolve the issues informally. While plaintiff’s counsel did
communicate their issues regarding defendant’s responses to defense counsel,
and defendant stood by their objections, the parties could have made a further
effort to discuss the issues via telephone. Defendant’s counsel offered to
discuss via telephone in the last email of June 9, 2023. Plaintiff had six
months to make a good faith effort to attempt to resolve the issues, but no
such effort was made. 
C.    
Separate Statements 
Under Rule of Court 3.1345 the movant must submit a separate
statement along with the motion to compel further responses that provides all
the information necessary to understand each discovery request and all the
responses at issue. The separate statement must include, in relevant part, “(1)
The text of the request . . . ; (2) The text of each response, answer, or
objection, and any further responses or answers; (3) A statement of the factual
and legal reasons for compelling further responses, answers, or production as
to each matter in dispute; (4) If necessary, the text of all definitions,
instructions, and other matters required to understand each discovery request
and the responses to it . . .” (Rule of Court 3.1345(c).) 
Here, plaintiff complied with this requirement in that he
provided the text of each request, defendant’s response, and defendant’s
objection. However, while plaintiff did include a “statement of insufficiency”
next to each discovery request, Plaintiff merely copy and pasted similar, if
not identical, language for each reason to compel further. Plaintiff merely
includes stock language claiming the responses are insufficient and that
Defendant’s objections are meritless and boilerplate. 
Plaintiff’s separate statements fail to adequately establish
a proper reason for this court to compel further responses as to the specific
discovery request. Plaintiff merely lumps all requests together and fails to
demonstrate why further responses should be ordered as to each matter
specifically, and instead uses the same language to argue further responses
should be compelled. Each statement of insufficiency uses language that does
not adequately address the specifics of the discovery request or the response.
Therefore, the plaintiff has not met this requirement. 
 
Based on the foregoing, the court DENIES plaintiff’s motion
to compel further responses to plaintiff’s request for production of documents.