 Case Number:  23CHCV00766    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2023    Dept:  F49 Dept. F-49
Date: 9-18-23 (specially set via
ex parte on 8-11-23)
Case # 23CHCV00766
Trial Date: Not Set
 
MOTION TO VACATE DEFAULT JUDGMENT
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant, Amy Renteria, pro
per
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff, Shannaz
Nermiarnian
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Motion to Vacate the Default Judgment for
Unlawful Detainer
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION
On
November 23, 2021, Plaintiff Colonial Park, LLC filed a complaint for Unlawful
Detainer against Defendant Nimeh Khlaif dba Nick’s Auto. The clerk entered a
default on January 25, 2022, then a default judgment for possession on February
7, 2022. 
 
On
March 15, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint for unlawful detainer. The
complaint shows a 3-Day Notice to Pay Rent or Quit dated March 3, 2023, with a
March 5, 2023, declaration of service indicating service by posting and
mailing. Defendant, in pro per, answered the complaint on April 3, 2023.
 
On
May 11, 2023, a default was entered as to Anthony Renteria and all unknown
occupants. 
 
On
June 13, 2023, the court struck the answer of Amy Renteria following the second
consecutive non-appearance for the case management conference.. On June 30,
2023, a default was entered. Default judgment including $40,709.87 in rent,
fees, and costs, followed on July 14, 2023. A writ of execution was issued of
July 19, 2023.
 
RULING: Granted.
Defendant
Amy Renteria, in pro per, moves for relief on the default judgment on grounds of
lack of actual notice of the two case management conferences, thereby leading
to the non-appearance, striking of the answer, and default judgment. Defendant
also cites to the mistake, inadvertence, excusable neglect standard for, and
finally on grounds of equitable relief. Plaintiff in opposition maintains
service was proper, and Defendant presents no valid basis for a finding of
mistake, inadvertence or excusable neglect. The lease expired with outstanding
rent remaining due and owing. The court electronic filing system shows no reply
at the time of the tentative ruling publication cutoff.
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 473.5 provides in part:
 
“(a) When
service of a summons has not resulted in actual notice to a party in time to
defend the action and a default or default judgment has been entered against
him or her in the action, he or she may serve and file a notice of motion to
set aside the default or default judgment and for leave to defend the action.
The notice of motion shall be served and filed within a reasonable time, but in
no event exceeding the earlier of: (i) two years after entry of a default
judgment against him or her; or (ii) 180 days after service on him or her
of a written notice that the default or default judgment has been entered.”
 
The default was entered as a result of a struck answer rather
than lack of service of the summons and complaint. Relief under the subject
section only involves a default judgment without any appearance by a defendant.
Even if court considered the section, The court finds no defects in the proofs
of service whereby Plaintiff’s counsel was ordered to provide notice continuing
the Case Management Conference from March 6 to May 15, 2023, and second
continuance from May 15, to June 13, 2023. Defendant acknowledges receipt of
the notices, but expresses confusion over the change of dates. Other than citation
to the section and declaration, the court lacks any other evidence in support
of the claimed improper service or lack of notice as a basis for the default
judgment. The court therefore finds no basis for relief under the lack of
notice statute.
 
The court instead considers
relief under mistake, inadvertence and/or excusable neglect. Code of
Civil Procedure section 473 subdivision (b) provides in part: 
 
“The court may,
upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy
of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the
application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time,
in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or
proceeding was taken.”
 
“The six-month time limit for granting statutory relief is
jurisdictional and the court may not consider a motion for relief made after
that period has elapsed. (Citation.) The six-month period runs from entry of
default, not entry of judgment.” (Manson,
Iver & York v. Black (2009) 176 Cal.App.4th 36, 42.) The clerk
entered default on February 2, and the subject motion was filed on February 14,
2022, which is within 180 days of the default entry dates. The court considers
this timely motion under the statutory relief provisions. (Ibid.)
 
“[A] trial court is obligated
to set aside a default, default judgment, or
dismissal if the motion for mandatory relief (1) is filed within six months of
the entry of judgment, (2) ‘is in proper form,’ (3) is accompanied by
the attorney affidavit of fault, and (4) demonstrates that
the default or dismissal was in fact caused by
the attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.’” (Martin Potts & Associates, Inc. v.
Corsair, LLC (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 432, 443.) The lack of an actual
attorney affidavit bars a finding for mandatory relief on the motion. (See Hu v. Fang (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 61, 64.)
 
The court therefore considers the
discretionary standard for relief based on the declaration of Defendant. Plaintiff
challenges the sufficiency of the declaration. 
 
The court finds the declaration
vague in terms of accounting for the “lack of notice.” The court accepts the
representation of confusion with the language of the orders requiring an
appearance and dates, but given Defendant knew to appear for the fee waiver
hearing, the court finds the selective understanding of the appearance
requirement lacking support. While nothing in the motion indicates a disregard
for the proceeding, the court finds the declaration lacking in support simply
based on “confusion” with the obligation to appear. (See Scognamillo v. Herrick (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th
1139, 1149 disapproved of by Lewis v. Ukran (2019) 36 Cal.App.5th 886; Davis v. Thayer (1980)
113 Cal.App.3d 892, 905.)
 
Defendant finally pleads for
equitable relief under Code of Civil Procedure section 128. “Every court
shall have the power to do all of the following: (8) To amend and control its
process and orders so as to make them conform to law and justice. …” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 128, subdivision (a)(8).) The court finds no support from this
section, but in its discretion considers equitable relief.
 
“The court may relieve a tenant against a forfeiture of a
lease or rental agreement, whether written or oral, and whether or not the
tenancy has terminated, and restore him or her to his or her former estate or
tenancy, in case of hardship, as provided in Section 1174. The court has the
discretion to relieve any person against forfeiture on its own motion.
 
“An application for relief against forfeiture may
be made at any time prior to restoration of the premises to the landlord. The application may be made by a tenant or subtenant, or a mortgagee of the term, or
any person interested in the continuance of the term. It must be made upon
petition, setting forth the facts upon which the relief is sought, and be
verified by the applicant. … In no case shall the application or motion be granted except on
condition that full payment of rent due, or full performance of conditions or
covenants stipulated, so far as the same is practicable, be made.”
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 1179
 
The motion lacks any reference to the sections or
demonstration of hardship under Code of Civil Procedure section 1174. Defendant
only maintains a willingness to pay the outstanding rent, but for Plaintiff’s refusal
to communicate. Plaintiff also maintains the eviction is otherwise “illegal.”
 
The court declines to consider facts and unsupported
argument not presented to the court, and instead, in its discretion, orders a
stay of execution on the writ of possession contingent on full payment of the
outstanding rent. The default judgment and writ of possession are therefore
vacated.
 
Defendant is given 5 days from the
date of this order to pay the sought after rent in full as presented in the
judgment--$25,190. Plaintiff is also ordered to pay any rent accumulated
from the date of the judgment to the next rent due payment period. The rent
shall be the same monthly rate unless and pending further consideration of the
court regarding a change in the amount due.
 
The court only stays execution of
the judgment and therefore effectively vacates the default judgment. The answer
is restored and the court will set a trial date following the lapse of the
compliance period. 
 
The subject order in no way
prevents the initiation of a new unlawful detainer default judgment based on
breach of the rent should Plaintiff fail to tender the outstanding rent and any
continuing rent obligations. Defendant is responsible for presenting proof of
payment to the court in case of any challenge by Plaintiff regarding
non-payment. If Defendant can submit proof of a refusal by Plaintiff to accept
the outstanding rent, the court will consider the circumstances. Failure to
otherwise present proof of payment or appear for any hearing will constitute a
presumptive inability to pay the outstanding rent. The court will again strike
the answer, thereby allowing reentry of the default, with subsequent right to
seek a default judgment and writ of possession. 
 
Given the unchallenged expiration of the lease terms, the
court assumes the existence of a month month-to-month rental agreement. The
parties are therefore restored to the month-to-month rental agreement, pending
full payment of all outstanding rent.
 
Plaintiffs may not rely on this
existing judgment for seeking possession of the premises. Plaintiff will need
to seek a new judgment. 
 
The court will set an OSC re:
Payment of Rent and a Trial Date.
 
Defendant
to give notice. 
 