  Case Number:  19STCV01865    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2023    Dept:  F49 Dept.
F-49
Date:
9-18-23
Case
# 19STCV01865
Trial
Date: 10-30-23 (Liability Phase) c/f 1-30-23 c/f 5-23-22
 
SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
MOVING
PARTY: Cross-Defendant, Tobo Construction, Inc. 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff/Cross-Complainant, City of Santa Clarita
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
for Summary Adjudication on the First Amended Cross-Complaint of the City of
Santa Clarita
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
On
an unspecified date in 1989, Plaintiff Manuel Santana purchased certain
property at 24522 Spruce Street in Santa Clarita. The property is identified as
“The Historical Jailhouse,” a 1906 constructed facility representing the first
jailhouse for the Santa Clarita Valley. Following the purchase, Santana created
The Manuel Santana Family Trust of 1992.
 
According
to Plaintiffs, the City of Santa Clarita recognized the “historical
significance” of the structure by the structure on December 6, 2007, thereby
rendering it immune from demolition or alteration. Prior, concurrent or
following the historical designation, in 2007, the City of Santa Clarita also
unveiled its plan to construct a new library “directly adjacent” to “The
Historical Jailhouse.” The City purchased all surrounding properties, and
offered Plaintiffs $300,000 for the property as well. Plaintiffs rejected the
offer.
 
Project
planning and construction began in 2009. A third party identified as Seward was
designated as the entity responsible “to oversee protection of the site.”
According to Plaintiffs, the parties responsible for the development of the
site failed to adhere to the “Seward Plan,” thereby allowing “hazardous
substances and water moisture to emanate inside the building.”
 
Plaintiffs
allege that the parties agreed to a five-year statute of limitations for the
filing of a claim from March 22, 2013. Notwithstanding the 2013, Plaintiffs
allege the timely filing of their administrative claim on March 19, 2019 [First
Amend. Compl., ¶¶ 33-34]. The claim was rejected by the City of Santa Clarita.
 
On
January 18, 2019 and May 29, 2019, Plaintiffs filed a complaint and first
amended complaint for Negligence, Gross Negligence, Strict Liability, Absolute
Liability, Trespass, Nuisance, Unjust Enrichment, and Battery. On August 29,
2019, the action was transferred to Department 49 from Department 4A. On
September 11, 2019, the court granted the ex parte motion dismissing the claims
for attorney fees and punitive damages against the City of Santa Clarita, and
extended the time for the filing of a responsive pleading.
 
On
October 15, 2019, City of Santa Clarita answered and filed its cross-complaint
for Breach of Contract, Contractual Indemnity, Equitable Indemnity, Breach of
Contract, Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, Apportionment of
Fault (Declaratory Relief), Equitable Contribution, and Indemnity Pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 1021.6. City of Santa Clarita named R.C. Becker
and Son, Inc. Tobo Construction, Inc., Mt. Hawley Insurance Co., and Landmark
American Ins. Co. The insurance defendants are only named in the third, fourth,
sixth, seventh and eight causes of action for Breach of Contract, Breach of
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, Apportionment of Fault (Declaratory
Relief), Equitable Contribution, and Indemnity Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 1021.6.
 
City
of Santa Clarita specifically alleges that defendant contractors R.C. Becker
and Son, Inc. and Tobo Construction, Inc. entered into “Redevelopment Agency
Agreement for Capital Improvement Project” agreements. Article V and VIII
requires cross-defendants indemnify the City of Santa Clarita against any all
claims arising from the project, and require the procurement of an insurance
policy designating City of Santa Clarita as an additional insured. On June 1,
2010, Cross-Defendant Ironshore Insurance Co. issued a Certificate of Liability
Insurance for R.C. Becker. On December 24, 2010, Cross-Defendant Mt. Hawley
Ins. Co. issued a Certificate of Liability Insurance for its insured, Tobo
Construction, Inc. On June 17, 2011, Cross-Defendant Landmark Ins. Co. issued a
Certificate of Liability Insurance for Tobo Construction, Inc. Defendant Valley
Forge Insurance Company is an alleged insurer of R.C. Becker.[1]
 
On
March 12, 2019, City of Santa Clarita tendered its indemnity claim and/or
defenses to the cross-defendant contractors. On August 28, 2019, Mt. Hawley
Ins. Co. denied the claim. On December 19, 2019, Valley Forge denied the claim.
R.C. Becker and Son, Inc. provided no response.
 
Landmark
American Ins. Co. answered the cross-complaint on December 3, 2019.
 
On
July 2, 2020, City of Santa Clarita filed its first amended cross-complaint
Breach of Contract, Contractual Indemnity, Breach of Contract, Breach of
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, Equitable Indemnity, Apportionment of
Fault (Declaratory Relief), Equitable Contribution, and Indemnity Pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 1021.6.
 
On
January 13, 2021, R.C. Becker and Son, Inc. answered the first amended
cross-complaint from City of Santa Clarita, and filed a cross-complaint for
Implied Indemnity, Comparative Indemnity, Contribution, and Declaratory Relief
on January 15, 2021. On February 3, 2021, the court overruled the demurrer of
Landmark American Insurance Company to the Cross-Complaint of City of Santa
Clarita. On March 5, 2021, Tobo Construction, Inc. answered the City of Santa
Clarita cross-complaint, and filed a cross-complaint for Express Indemnity,
Equitable Indemnity, Contribution, and Declaratory Relief.
 
On
October 12, 2022, Department 51 granted the unopposed motion of R.C. Becker and
Son, Inc. on the first amended complaint of Manuel Santana. 
 
RULING: Denied
Request for Judicial Notice: Granted.
The court takes judicial notice of the
filed pleadings and declarations, but cannot take judicial notice of the truth
of any matters asserted within the requested items.
 
Evidentiary Objections to the Statement of
Evidence, Ex. 4: Sustained (Foundation, Authentication)/Court Will Reference Sections
Incorporated into the First Amended Cross-Complaint
 
Cross-Complainant Tobo Construction, Inc.  (Tobo) moves for summary adjudication on the
first amended complaint of City of Santa Clarita based on Tobo complying with
the contract in designating the City of Santa Clarita an additional insured,
and the lack of any requirement to cover the City of Santa Clarita for its own
negligent acts on any tendered indemnity claim by the City of Santa Clarita as
to Tobo. 
 
City of Santa
Clarita in opposition challenges the motion on grounds regarding compliance
with the insurance obligations under the contract, and contends Tobo takes
conflicting positions in both representing compliance with the terms of the
contract while denying any responsibility for indemnity coverage of City of
Santa Clarita following its own negligence. City of Santa Clarita maintains the
notice of motion improperly omits reference to the claim in the operative
cross-complaint regarding the tender of coverage on the indemnity claim as to
City of Santa Clarita by Plaintiffs. Finally, City of Santa Clarita denies any
bar under “active negligence” law, in that the relied upon statutory authority
is not applicable.
 
Tobo in reply contends
the City of Santa Clarita “conflates” the procurement and designation of City
of Santa Clarita as an extra insured with any indemnity obligation. City of
Santa Clarita also “misrepresents” the law regarding City of Santa Clarita
seeking indemnity for its own negligence. Tobo reiterates its own compliance
with the obligation to name City of Santa Clarita as an insured, thereby
fulfilling all duties. Toto concludes with an arguably new claim following the
hearing on the Becker motion regarding an moission in the pleadings on the
indemnity claim.
 
The pleadings frame the issues for motions, “since it is those
allegations to which the motion must respond. (Citation.)”  (Scolinos
v. Kolts (1995) 37 Cal. App. 4th 635, 640-641; FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 382-383; Jordan-Lyon Prods., LTD. v. Cineplex Odeon Corp. (1994) 29
Cal.App.4th 1459, 1472.) The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the
parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations,
trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  
 
“On
a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party
to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material
fact.” (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc.
(2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment
“has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if
the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . .
cannot be established.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden,
the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or
more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) 

 
“When
deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the
evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has
sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable inference that may be drawn
form that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary
judgment.” (Avivi
v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467; see also Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “An issue of fact can only be created by a conflict
in the evidence.  It is not created by
speculation, conjecture, imagination or guesswork.” (Lyons v. Security Pacific National Bank (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1001,
1041 (citation omitted).)
 
The
first argument of Tobo seeks summary adjudication on grounds that it complied
with the construction contract with the City of Santa Clarita. The City of
Santa Clarita was designated an insured, and Tobo owes no further obligation
under the contract. City of Santa Carita in opposition contends triable issues
of material fact exist on the issue of whether Tobo remains obligated to
provide insurance to the City of Santa Clarita in the case of claimed
negligence by the Santana plaintiffs. The subject claims in the operative
cross-complaint were necessitated due to the denial of coverage by Tobo’s
insurers, Mt. Hawley Insurance Company (Mt. Hawley) and Landmark American
Insurance Company (Landmark). City of Santa Clarita additionally represents
that it was never a designated additional insured according to the insurers.
The court declines to consider the subject argument from an evidentiary point
of view to the extent the argument was derived from previously filed pleadings
and the truth of the subject matter cannot be considered via judicial notice.
 
As
addressed in the standard, the pleadings frame the issues. The first amended
cross-complaint of the City of Santa Clarita specifically alleges that
defendant contractors R.C. Becker and Son, Inc. and Tobo Construction, Inc.
entered into “Redevelopment Agency Agreement for Capital Improvement Project”
agreements. Article V and VIII requires cross-defendants indemnify the City of
Santa Clarita against any all claims arising from the project, and require the
procurement of an insurance policy designating City of Santa Clarita as an
additional insured. Paragraphs 17 and 18 of the first amended cross-complaint
quotes Articles V and VIII of the contract, as part of the claim regarding the
breach of the agreement and claim for indemnity and contribution. 
 
On
December 24, 2010, Cross-Defendant Mt. Hawley Ins. Co. issued a Certificate of
Liability Insurance for its insured, Tobo Construction, Inc. On June 17, 2011,
Cross-Defendant Landmark Ins. Co. issued a Certificate of Liability Insurance
for Tobo Construction, Inc. On March 12, 2019, City of Santa Clarita tendered
its indemnity claim and/or defenses to the cross-defendant contractors. [First
Amend Cross-Comp., ¶ 21.] The tenders presented to Mt. Hawley and Landmark were
denied on August 28 and December 19, 2019. [First Amend Cross-Comp., ¶¶ 23-24.]
 
Tobo
effectively moves for a finding of no duty to indemnify City of Santa Clarita. A party may move for summary adjudication on the
issue of duty. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) The statute itself lacks distinction of
whether the term “duty” includes a contractual based “duty,” but authority
supports such a determination. (Linden Partners v. Wilshire Linden Associates (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 508, 519.) The court therefore finds the
presentation of contractual issues presented as a function of the duty to
designate City of Santa Clarita an additional insured and provide indemnity
coverage, as a proper basis for the instant motion. 
 
The
court begins with the contractual language. Article V as quoted in the first
amended cross-complaint provides:
 
“City
and its respective elected and appointed boards, officials, officers, agents,
employees, and volunteers (individually and collectively, “Indemnitees”) shall
have no liability to [Tobo] or any other person for, and [Tobo] shall
indemnify, defend, protect, and hold harmless Indemnitees from and against, any
and all liabilities, claims, actions, causes of action, proceedings, suits,
damages, judgments, liens, levies, costs, and expenses of whatever nature,
including reasonable attorney’s fees and disbursements (collectively “Claims”),
which Indemnitees may suffer or incur or to which Indemnitees may become
subject by reason of or arising out of any injury to or death of any person(s),
damage to property, loss of use of property, economic loss, or otherwise
occurring as a result of or allegedly caused by the [Tobo’s] performance of or
failure to perform any services under this Agreement, or by the negligent or
willful acts or omissions of [Tobo], its agents, officers, directors, or
employees, committed in performing any of the services under this Agreement. 
 
“If
any action or proceeding is brought against Indemnitees by reason of any of the
matters against which [Tobo] has agreed to indemnify Indemnitees as provided
above, [Tobo], upon notice from City, shall defend Indemnitees at its expense
by counsel acceptable to City, such acceptance not to be unreasonably withheld.
Indemnitees need not have first paid for any of the matters to which
Indemnitees are entitled to indemnification in order to be so indemnified. The
limits of the insurance required to be maintained by [Tobo] in this Agreement
shall not limit the liability of [Tobo] hereunder. The provisions of this
section shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of this agreement.”

 
Article
VIII continues:
 
“During
the entire term of this agreement, [Tobo] agrees to procure and maintain
General Liability insurance at its sole expense to protect against loss from
liability imposed by law for damages on account of bodily injury, including
death therefrom, suffered or alleged to be suffered by any person or persons
whomsoever, resulting directly or indirectly from any act or activities, errors
or omissions, of the CITY, or [Tobo] or any person acting for the CITY, or
under its control or direction, and also to protect against loss from liability
imposed by law for damages to any property of any person caused directly or
indirectly by or from acts or activities of the CITY, or [Tobo] or any person
acting for the CITY, or under its control or direction. Such public liability
and property damage insurance shall also provide for and protect the CITY
against incurring any legal cost in defending claims for alleged loss.”
(Exhibit D, Page 3, Paragraph 3.) 
 
“All
of the insurance shall be primary insurance and, shall name the City of Santa
Clarita as additional insured. A certificate of insurance and an additional
insured endorsement (for general and automobile liability), evidencing the
above insurance coverage with a company acceptable to the City’s Risk Manager
shall be submitted to City prior to execution of this agreement on behalf of
the City.”
 
Tobo contends the obligation for
designation of City of Santa Clarita on the policy was met. The operative
cross-complaint in fact incorporates copies of the policies showing the City of
Santa Clarita was a designated party. [First Amend Cross-Comp., ¶¶ 15, 19, Ex.
C, E.] City of Santa Clarita offers no factual dispute of this basis of the
motion, but cites to the answers of Mt. Hawley and Landmark to the first
amended cross-complaint, whereby the insurers allege affirmative defenses
denying any contractual basis of coverage. 
 
Again, the court cannot take judicial
notice of the truth of the matter in any party pleading for purposes of
establishing triable issues of material fact. “Supporting and opposing
affidavits or declarations shall be made by a person on personal knowledge,
shall set forth admissible evidence, and shall show affirmatively that the
affiant is competent to testify to the matters stated in the affidavits or declarations.
… ” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).)
 
Notwithstanding the broad notice, Tobo
focuses on paragraphs 30 and 33 of the first amended complaint, breach of
contract cause of action. While the subject allegations specifically address
the exact issues presented, the argument in support disregards paragraph 29
regarding the indemnity requirement. Thus, the court finds the argument
properly presented to the court accepting the argument in reply from Tobo regarding
improper notice of the claim.
 
Tobo approaches this second part of the
liability claim with an argument that the City of Santa Clarita cannot enforce
the indemnity contractual term requiring insurance coverage for any claims
arising from the City of Santa Clarita’s own negligent acts. Tobo cites to
Civil Code section 2782, which states in relevant part: 
 
“(a) Except as provided in Sections 2782.1,
2782.2, 2782.5,
and 2782.6, provisions, clauses, covenants, or
agreements contained in, collateral to, or affecting any construction contract
and that purport to indemnify the promisee against liability for damages for
death or bodily injury to persons, injury to property, or any other loss,
damage or expense arising from the sole negligence or willful misconduct of the
promisee or the promisee's agents, servants, or independent contractors who are
directly responsible to the promisee, or for defects in design furnished by those
persons, are against public policy and are void and unenforceable; provided,
however, that this section shall not affect the validity of any insurance
contract, workers' compensation, or agreement issued by an admitted insurer as
defined by the Insurance Code.
(b)(1) Except as provided in Sections 2782.1, 2782.2,
and 2782.5, provisions, clauses, covenants, or
agreements contained in, collateral to, or affecting any construction contract
with a public agency entered into
before January 1, 2013, that purport to impose
on the contractor, or relieve the public agency from, liability for the active
negligence of the public agency are void and unenforceable.
(2) Except as provided in Sections 2782.1, 2782.2, and 2782.5, provisions, clauses, covenants, or agreements
contained in, collateral to, or affecting any construction contract with a
public agency entered into on or after January 1, 2013, that purport to impose
on any contractor, subcontractor, or supplier of goods or services, or relieve
the public agency from, liability for the active negligence of the public
agency are void and unenforceable.”
…
 
(Civ. Code, § 2782.)
 
“Any additional insured endorsement issued by an admitted or
nonadmitted insurer for the benefit of a public agency in connection with,
collateral to, or affecting any construction contract to which the provisions
of subdivision (b) of Section 2782 of the Civil Code apply, shall not provide
any duty of indemnity coverage for the active negligence of the additional
insured in any case where an agreement to indemnify the additional insured
would be invalid under subdivision (b) of Section 2782 of the Civil Code. In
any case where a claim or loss encompasses the negligence of the original
insured and the active negligence of the additional insured that is not covered
because of this section, the insurer's obligation shall be limited to
obligations permitted by this section. [¶] Any contract requirement that
requires a promisor to procure insurance that is invalid under this section
shall be invalid.”
 
(Ins. Code, § 11580.04.)
 
City of Santa Clarita in opposition again
relies on previously made arguments in filed pleading regarding conflicting
positions, which the court declines to consider. City of Santa Clarita next concedes
to negligence claim bars under the plain language of Civil Code section 2782,
but seeks to distinguish the contractual claims as an issue of indemnity
obligation via the insurance coverage provision rather than a claim seeking
indemnity for an independently negligent act by the City of Santa Clarita
arising from associated construction/grading activities. City of Santa Clarita
essentially contends that any and all liability from the grading work was
caused exclusively and entirely by Tobo, in that City of Santa Clarita never
actually participated in any construction activities in any way. Thus, the legally
void negligence disclaimer constitutes a non-material issue in that the claims
against City of Santa Clarita in the operative Santana complaint result from
the allegedly negligent grading work of Tobo. Hence, the City of Santa Clarita
seeks enforcement of the indemnity provision for allegedly negligent work
performed by Tobo in the first amended cross-complaint under challenge. The
indemnity provisions in the contract fall back on Tobo via the terms of the
insurance provisions in Articles V and VIII.
 
The plain language of Articles V and VIII,
and Civil Code section Civil Code section 2782, subdivision (b) and Insurance
Code section 11580.4, support the argument of City of Santa Clarita limiting
the bar to indemnity claims arising from “active negligence.” The initial
argument however requires support of a claim for indemnity based on claimed
active negligence. Tobo presents no such support for the required condition
underlying the statutory protections: a claim of “active negligence” by the
City of Santa Clarita via the Santana complaint. The lack of any argument
supporting active participation by City of Santa Clarita renders the argument
inapplicable for purposes of determining the indemnity agreement void. 
 
In returning again to the first part of
the argument for summary adjudication based on compliance via Tobo arranging
for the designation of the City of Santa Clarita as an additional insured, said
proof of insurance only establishes compliance with one provision of the
agreement. Again, in context of the undisputed denial of coverage to City of
Santa Clarita for the indemnity claim by Mt. Hawley and Landmark (on whatever
basis), Tobo fails to establish a complete bar to the action based on both
compliance and an invalid effort seeking indemnity. The motion fails to
establish how the public entity statutory provisions regarding active
negligence relieve Tobo from any personal claims of indemnity presented by the
City of Santa Clarita voluntarily agreed upon in accepting the public
improvement contract in a non-active negligence-based claim of negligence in
the Santana complaint. Thus, without a basis of an active negligence claim
articulated against the City of Santa Clarita in the Santa complaint, and an
untendered coverage claim from the insurers, the plain language still
designates Tobo a liable indemnitor of the City of Santa Clarita.
 
The court therefore denies the motion for
summary adjudication and finds triable issues of material of fact on the issue
of duty regarding the duty of Tobo to indemnity claims arising from obligations
in Articles V and VIII of the “Redevelopment Agency Agreement for Capital
Improvement Project” agreement, as a result of the Santana action with City of
Santa Clarita named a co-defendant.
 
The motion for summary judgment set for
September 26, 2023, of City of Santa Clarita as to the Santana first amended
complaint will be continued to October 12, 2023. The court moves the motion
because the reply due date of September 21, 2023, court holiday on September
22, 2023, and the weekend of September 23 and 24, 2023, will prevent timely
review of the reply and, if applicable, any evidentiary objections by the time
of the tentative ruling publication deadline. The reply still remains due on
September 21, 2023. Nothing in this order in any way constitutes an extension
of the deadline for the filing of the reply. The court also acknowledges the
setting of motion inside the 30 day trial date window, but with court
congestion, and an already set date on the cusp of the 30-day window, the court
hereby specially sets this hearing.  City
of Santa Clarita to file an amended notice of hearing reflecting the new
hearing date forthwith.
 
Final status conference, and jury trial on
“liability” remains set for October 19 and 30, 2023, respectively.
 
Tobo
to give notice to all parties.
 


