 Case Number:  23STCV06481    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  78  Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78 ¿ MELISSA OSORIO, Plaintiff(s), vs. RAMPART INVESTMENT CORP., et al., Defendant(s). Case No.: 23STCV06481 Hearing Date: August 8, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING IN PART PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS  I.  BACKGROUND Plaintiff Melissa Osorio (“Plaintiff”) filed this employment action against defendants Rampart Investment Corp., et al., alleging she was defendants’ property manager for the apartment complex located at 819 W. Imperial Boulevard, Los Angeles, California 90044. During her employment, the complaint alleges defendants failed to pay overtime wages, denied breaks, advertised uninhabitable apartment units, and that defendants retaliated against Plaintiff when she repeatedly complained to defendants of the conditions.  The complaint sets forth eight causes of action for (1) Violation of Labor Code § 1102.5, (2) Failure To Pay Minimum Or Contractual Wages, (3) Failure To Pay Overtime, (4) Failure To Pay Meal & Rest Breaks, (5) Failure To Provide Accurate Wage Statements, (6) Failure To Pay Wages Due At Time Of Separation, (7) Failure To Produce Personnel Records (Labor Code § 1198.5), (8) Violation Of Bus. & Prof. Code §§ 17200 et. seq.  On July 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion seeking an order compelling defendant Rampart Investment Corp. (“Defendant”) to provide further responses to Requests for Production of Documents (“RPDs”), Set One, as to Nos. 1-32, and to pay monetary sanctions. The parties met and conferred and attended an Informal Discovery Conference (IDC) on April 18, 2024, in which Defendant provided that supplemental responses would be provided by May 9, 2024. On May 20, 2024, Defendant served deficient responses to the RPDs, and on June 14, 2024, Plaintiff served an additional meet and confer letter detailing deficiencies of those responses. On July 31, 2024, Defendant filed an opposition to Plaintiff’s motion to compel further request for production. The opposition was due on July 26, 2024; the Court will exercise discretion and consider the untimely opposition.  II.  PROCEDURAL Meet and Confer Requirement A motion¿to compel further responses to requests for production “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration.”¿(Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(b)(1).)¿ The declaration must state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented in the motion.¿ (Code Civ. Proc. § 2016.040.)¿   The Court finds that Plaintiff met the requirements of Code Civ. Proc. §2030.300 (b)(1). Separate Statement A motion to compel further responses requires a separate statement. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a).)  The Court finds that Plaintiff properly filed a separate statement for the motion to compel further responses to RPDs. Informal Discovery Conference (IDC) Pursuant to this Court’s department rules, the parties are expected and encouraged to informally resolve disputes. If an informal resolution is not reached after meeting and conferring, then either party may request that the court conduct an informal discovery conference (IDC) for the purpose of discussing discovery matters in dispute between the parties. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.080.) On April 18, 2024, the parties participated in the IDC, in which Defendant represented supplemental responses to all outstanding discovery requests would be provided by May 9, 2024. (IDC Min. Order, April 18, 2024.)   III.  DISCUSSION CCP § 2031.310(a) provides that on receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further response to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following apply:    (1) A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete.  (2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.  (3) An objection in the response is without merit or too general. Considering the parties met and conferred regarding the supplemental responses served on May 20, 2024, the Court finds that the IDC does not necessarily act as a limiting parameter on Plaintiff’s motion to compel further as argued by Defendant. Defendant argues the requests are overbroad. Plaintiff avers further responses are required because Defendant’s response fails to specify why Defendant is unable to respond to certain requests, and for those that Defendant provides they will produce, Defendant’s responses do not indicate which documents are to be produced. Instead, Defendant provides generally that it will produce “responsive, non-privileged documents in his/her/its possession, custody, or control pertaining to services rendered.” The Court has reviewed the responses and agrees that they are not code compliant. (See CCP §§ 2031.230, 2031.240.) As to Defendant’s refusal to produce in terms of Nos. 25-27, arguing that its objections to these requests are valid because they are not narrowly tailored and violate confidentiality rights of third parties, the Court agrees. This is an employment action for failure to pay overtime wages and retaliation. There is no apparent relevance, even in the broadest sense, as to why Defendant should produce revenue it generated from its operations from March 15, 2021 to the present day, or why Defendant should produce and all financial or ownership interest it may have in any legal entity from 2019 to the present day. Therefore, Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to RPDs, set one, is GRANTED IN PART as to Nos. 1-24 and Nos. 28-32 only. Defendant is ordered to provide further code-compliant responses to these requests within twenty (20) days.  IV. SANCTIONS Sanctions are mandatory against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response. (CCP §2031.310(h).) Plaintiff requests for 4 hours of attorney time at $650 per hour for the motion, in addition to $60 for the motion filing fee. A court has discretion to award sanctions that are “suitable and necessary to enable the party seeking discovery to obtain the objects of the discovery he seeks” but they should not be punitive in nature or levied for the purposes of punishing an offending party. (Vallbona v. Springer (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1525, 1545.) Although the Court will award sanctions, the full amount requested is not supported, and shall be reduced accordingly. Plaintiff is awarded 2 hours to prepare the motion and appear at the hearing total, at a reduced rate of $400 per hour, for a total of $800 in attorney fees. Further, Plaintiff is awarded one motion filing fee of $60, as costs. Sanctions are imposed against Defendant and/or its counsel of record. Defendant and/or its counsel are ordered to pay sanctions to Plaintiff, by and through counsel of record, in the total amount of $860, within twenty (20) days.  Moving Party is ordered to give notice.  DATED: August 7, 2024 __________________________ Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: • Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. • If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. • Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. • If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 