  Case Number:  21STCV01409    Hearing Date:   March 27, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:  Motion Of Defendant Broadway Exchange
Building, LP For Summary Judgment Or, Alternatively, Summary Adjudication.
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Vianey Elizabeth Sanderson (“Plaintiff”)
brings this case against Defendant Broadway Exchange Building, LP (“Defendant”),
alleging that defendants took forcible possession of a leased commercial
premises at 221 W. 7th Street, Los Angeles, without legal process.  The causes of action are:  1. Forcible Entry; and 2. Forcible Detainer.
Defendant has filed a motion requesting summary
judgment against Plaintiff, or summary adjudication of the Affirmative Defense
of Abandonment. Plaintiff opposes the motion.
LEGAL STANDARD
In moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication,
a “defendant . . . has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action
has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is
a complete defense to the cause of action.” Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(p)(2).
The burden then shifts to the plaintiff to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto. Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(p)(2). “There is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the
evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in
favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable
standard of proof.” Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (as modified (July 11, 2001).

ANALYSIS
Plaintiff alleges claims against Defendant for
forcible detainer and forcible entry. The elements of a claim for forcible
detainer are: 

Plaintiff was
     an occupant of the premises;
in peaceable
     possession;
Defendant
     unlawfully held and kept possession of the real property;
by force or
     by menaces and threats of violence; and
the
     possession was acquired peaceably or otherwise.

Providence Baptist Ass'n v. Los Angeles
Hompa Honowanji Buddhist Temple (1947) 79 Cal.App.2d
734, 737. See also Code Civ. Proc., § 1160. Similarly, forcible entry
requires proof that the defendant used force, threats, or menacing conduct to turn
out the plaintiff from property the plaintiff was renting. Code Civ. Proc., §
1159.
Defendant has filed a motion requesting summary
judgment against Plaintiff, or summary adjudication of the Affirmative Defense
of Abandonment, on the following grounds: 
1) Plaintiff’s obligation to pay rent to Defendant between April 2020
and November 2020 was not excused due to the COVID-19 pandemic and resulting
government orders; 2) Defendant had a reasonable belief that Plaintiff
abandoned the premises on 11/25/20 (Civ. Code §1951.2);  and 3) Plaintiff’s fixed-term lease for the
premises expired on 12/31/20, such that entry afterwards was not wrongful. In
response, Plaintiff contends that: 1) Pandemic law delayed the due date for
rent payments; 2) the circumstances could not have given Defendant a reasonable
belief of tenant abandonment; and 3) the lease did not expire since Plaintiff
exercised an option to extend it.
1.     Whether
Plaintiff’s Obligation to Pay Rent Between April 2020 and November 2020 was
Excused Due to the COVID-19 Pandemic and Resulting Government Orders.
Defendant contends that the pandemic lockdown did not
frustrate the purpose of the subject lease or excuse the payment of rent owed.
As narrowly phrased by Defendant, this issue is correct as a matter of law.
Commercial tenants remain obligated to pay rent pursuant to the lease while in
possession of the premises. SVAP III Poway Crossings, LLC v. Fitness Int'l,
LLC (2023) 287 Cal. App. 5th 882, 896. But such law fails to take into
consideration another material issue of whether Plaintiff’s payment of rent was
excused until after the expiration of the Moratorium. “The Moratorium also
provided tenants with a year-long forbearance period after the Moratorium ends
to pay overdue rent.” Iten v. Los Angeles (9th Cir. 2023) 81
F.4th 979, 982. The Moratorium applied to commercial tenants having nine or
fewer employees. See Los Angeles County COVID-19 Eviction Moratorium (Exec.
Order of the Chair of the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors, § III(e) (9/1/20)).
Plaintiff’s obligation to pay rent therefore has been delayed but not excused.
The Court determines that Plaintiff raised triable
issues of material fact as to whether Plaintiff’s obligation to pay rent was delayed
until after the expiration of the Moratorium. (Vianey Elizabeth Sanderson
(Sanderson) Decl., ¶ 6 (“Pursuant to the City of Los Angeles Los Angeles Tenant
Protection Act (the "LATPA"), I was not required to pay my rent from
April 2020 through the date I was locked out until 3 months after the City of
Los Angeles lifted the local state of emergency. The LATPA did not mean that I
did not owe or have to pay the rent that accrued….”).)
Thus, Defendant’s issue is granted as worded, with the
caveat that it fails to be fully dispositive of the affirmative defense of
abandonment on the issue of nonpayment of rent.
2.     Whether
Plaintiff Abandoned the Premises on 11/25/20.  

The Court determines that Defendant shifted the burden
of proof, based on evidence that Plaintiff permanently vacated the subject
property, and Defendant did not enter it until after the lease term expired. (Sep.
Stmnt., pp. 4-5, fact numbers 10-17, and proof referenced thereat).  As for triable issues of material fact, there
are disputes as to whether there was forcible entry or lease abandonment and
expiration. Specifically, Plaintiff’s declaration and exhibits reasonably infer
that Plaintiff intended to stay an occupant of the subject premises, given communications
with the Defendant. Under the circumstances evidenced by Plaintiff, it was not
reasonable for Defendant to believe that Plaintiff had vacated the premises,
when Plaintiff left personal property on the premises worth approximately
$150,000, Defendant and the Plaintiff continuingly discussed plans to reopen
the business, and Plaintiff continued to pay the utility bills. (Sanderson Decl.,
¶¶ 7-16.) Plaintiff’s deposition testimony did not unequivocally state an
intent to go out of business, but instead to close just a few weeks, to hire
new staff. (Lisamarie McDermott Decl., Ex. H, 101:13 (“So we closed down for a
couple of weeks to restaff.”).) Tacit or ambiguous
deposition admissions may be contradicted by declarations. Benavidez v. San
Jose Police Dept. (1999) 71 Cal.App.4th 853, 861-62.  
Therefore, the motion is denied as to this issue. 
3.     Whether
Plaintiff’s Fixed-Term Lease for the Premises Expired on 12/31/20 Such That
Entry Afterwards Was Not Wrongful. 
Regarding the initial burden, Defendant’s declaration
provides evidence that Plaintiff never exercised the option to extend the lease,
such that Plaintiff permanently vacated the subject property, and Defendant did
not enter until after the lease term expired. (Boris Mayzels Decl., ¶ 14 (“Plaintiff
Sanderson did not give me notice of her exercise of an option to extend the
term of the Lease.”).) In contrast, Plaintiff’s declaration shows exercising
the option with a reference to an addendum to the lease. (Sanderson Decl., ¶ 4
(“I exercised the Option extending the Lease to December 31, 2025. Defendant
Broadway Exchange LP's Property Manager Boris Mayzels accepted my exercise of
the Option. A true and correct copy of the Option is attached hereto as Exhibit
1.”).) Even assuming Plaintiff did not timely exercise the lease option and in
writing as provided in the lease addendum, the elements of the claim for
forcible detainer (set forth above) only require occupancy in peaceable
possession.
Hence, the motion is denied as to this issue.
CONCLUSION
In view of the parties’ respective evidentiary
showings that support triable issues of material fact, the Court denies the
motion for summary judgment and alternative motion for summary adjudication.