 Case Number:  23TRCV03434    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling   HEARING DATE:                 May 30, 2024  CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV03434  CASE NAME:                        Clara M. Ramirez; Jose P. Carrubba v.  Christina Carrubba, et al.      MOVING PARTY:                (1) Defendants,  Christina Carrubba and Manuel Parra  RESPONDING PARTY:       (1) Plaintiffs, Clara M. Ramirez and Jose P. Carrubba  TRIAL DATE:                       Not Set.  MOTION:                              (1) Defendants’ Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One against Plaintiff,  Clara Ramirez                                                  (2) Defendants’  Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special  Interrogatories, Set One against Plaintiff, Clara Ramirez                                                  (3) Defendants’  Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for  Production of Documents, Set One against Plaintiff, Clara Ramirez                                                  (4) Defendants’  Motion to Compel Responses  to Requests that Plaintiff appear and give her Fingerprints against Plaintiff,  Clara Ramirez                                                 (5) Motion to Deem  Requests for Admission as Admitted against Plaintiff, Clara Ramirez                                                  (6) Requests for  Monetary Sanctions   Tentative Rulings:                  (1)- (5)  Discuss.   If the requested discovery responses have been provided by the time of  the hearing and those responses are verified and otherwise Code-compliant, the  substantive motions would be mooted.  If  not, the Court is inclined to grant the 4 motions to compel and to continue the  deemed admissions motion depending on when Plaintiff can provide verified  admissions or denials.                                                   (6) Requests for  Monetary Sanctions is Continued to a date in early July to allow counsel to  negotiate a reasonable figure or let the Court decide once the verified  responses are all in hand                                                    I. BACKGROUND    A. Factual   On  October 16, 2023, Plaintiffs, Clara M. Ramirez and Jose P. Carrubba  (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint against Defendants, Cristina  Carrubba, Manuel Angel Parra, and DOES 1 through 100. The Complaint alleges  causes of action for: (1) Quiet Title; (2) Cancellation of Instrument; (3)  Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (4) Declaratory Relief; (5) Elder Financial Abuses;  and (6) Partition.    Defendant  Parra asserts that on February 13, 2024, he propounded a Request for Plaintiff  Clara Ramirez to give fingerprints. Further, on February 16, 2024, Parra  propounded four sets of written discovery to Plaintiff, Clara Ramirez  including: Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One,  Request for Production of Documents, Set One, and Requests for Admissions, Set  One.    On  March 15, 2024, defense counsel sent a letter reminding Plaintiff’s counsel  that her scheduled fingerprinting was set for March 18, 2024, and that written  responses to the propounded discovery items were due on March 22, 2024.  On March 15, 2024, March 17, 2024, and March  18, 2024, Defendant notes that defense counsel emailed Plaintiff’s counsel  asking if Ramirez would be appearing for her fingerprinting.    After  Plaintiff failed to appear for her scheduled fingerprinting, and failed to  provide any responses to Defendant Parra’s various discovery requests, defense  counsel wrote to Plaintiff’s counsel asserting that Plaintiff had waived  objections and sought tardy written responses without objection. According to  Defense counsel, that same email noted that Defendant still wanted to  informally work out a date to take Ramirez’s fingerprints, yet Defendant was  not receiving any responses to his prior requests.    On  April 12, 2024, Defendant notes defense counsel sent Plaintiff a meet and  confer letter on each of the outstanding written discovery items propounded by  Defendant in February 2024, as well as Defendant’s request for Plaintiff’s  fingerprints.    To  date, Defendant contends that Plaintiff Ramirez has not provided any responses  to any of Defendant Parra’s discovery requests, did not appear for her  scheduled fingerprinting, nor has she provided dates when she would be able to  submit to fingerprinting.    B. Procedural     On April 23, 2024, Defendant, Manuel Parra filed these  Motions to Compel Responses and Motion to Compel Plaintiff, Ramirez, to submit  to fingerprinting. On May 21, 2024, Plaintiff, Ramirez filed opposition papers  consisting of a declaration of Plaintiff’s counsel purporting to explain why  Plaintiff did not provide timely response and promising verified responses  before the hearing, which could moot the substantive motions.   Reply briefs were filed on May 28, 2 days  before the hearings on these motions. Counsel dispute whether there was effective  communication between them prior to the motion being filed; Defendants  asserting multiple, dated and quoted communications to Plaintiff’s counsel, and  the opposition declaration stating in a single sentence that “I exchanged  several emails with opposing counsel informing him that my client was out of  the country.”     II. ANALYSIS   A.    Legal Standard     A party must respond to interrogatories within 30 days  after service. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260, subd. (a).) If a party to whom  interrogatories are directed does not provide timely responses, the requesting  party may move for an order compelling responses to the discovery. (Code Civ.  Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) The party also waives the right to make any  objections, including one based on privilege or work-product protection. (Code  Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) There is no time limit for a motion to  compel responses to interrogatories other than the cut-off on hearing discovery  motions 15 days before trial. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020, subd. (a); Code  Civ. Proc., 2030.290.) No meet and confer efforts are required before filing a  motion to compel responses to the discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290; Sinaiko  Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148  Cal.App.4th 390, 411               Further,  where there has been no timely response to a Code of Civil Procedure §  2031.010 demand, the demanding party must seek an order compelling a response.  (CCP § 2031.300.) Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including  privilege and work product. Thus, unless the party to whom the demand was  directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the  documents demanded. There is no deadline for a motion to compel responses.  Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not attempt to resolve  the matter outside court before filing the motion. Where the motion seeks only  a response to the inspection demand, no showing of "good cause" is  required.    Additionally, Code of Civil Procedure  section 2033.290, subdivision (a), provides that “[o]n receipt of a particular  response to requests for admissions, the party requesting admissions may move  for an order compelling a further response if that party deems that either or  both of the following apply: (1) An answer to a particular request is evasive  or incomplete[;] (2) An objection to a particular request is without merit or  too general.”  Notice of the motion must be  given within 45 days of service of the verified response, otherwise the  propounding party waives the right to compel a further response. (Code Civ.  Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (c).) The motions must also be accompanied by a meet  and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (b).)       B.      Discussion    The declarations of John F. Bazan (“Bazan  Decl.”) filed in support of Plaintiff’s opposition to these motions concede  that Plaintiff has failed to respond to discovery. Counsel for Plaintiff  contends that shortly after this case was filed, Plaintiff’s husband, Jose P.  Carrubba died. (Bazan Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.) Plaintiff’s counsel states that his  client traveled to her homeland of Peru for an extended period of time after  her husband’s death and was unavailable. (Bazan Decl., ¶ 6.) No dates of travel  were provided so the Court cannot ascertain whether the discovery was already  pending before Plaintiff left the country, what access Plaintiff may have had  to counsel in Peru, or many other details.   Plaintiff’s counsel also notes that Plaintiff was grieving and was  unable to assist with the responses to the discovery propounded on Plaintiff.  (Bazan Decl., ¶ 7.) Plaintiff’s counsel also notes that he exchanged several  emails with opposing counsel informing him that his counsel is out of the  country, and that he would be out of office until May 22, 2024 (Bazan Decl., ¶¶  8-9), but no details are provided such as the date or dates of the emails, or  attaching copies of the same.  Plaintiff’s  counsel promises he would have his client come into his office to prepare full  and complete discovery responses, without objections, and that the responses  would be in Defendant’s possession before this hearing. (Bazan Decl., ¶  10.)   It is now a half day before the  hearing and no updated information has been provided tot eh Court as to whether  these discovery motions are mooted or not, i.e., whether the promised  Code-compliant responses have been provided before the hearing.     Objections  were asserted to Mr. Bazan’s declaration, largely on hearsay and foundation grounds  as to matters that Plaintiff herself or others might be the more appropriate  witness.  Thus, the Court will need more  information at the hearing to determine whether these portions of the motions  will be moot.    Sanctions               Irrespective of whether Plaintiff  has served Code-compliant responses by the date of the hearing, Defendant argues  that it nonetheless was required to bring these motions in order for Plaintiff  to provide responses. In connection with Defendant’s motions to compel, Defendant  has requested the following amount in sanctions: (1) Form Interrogatories -  $1,635; (2) Special Interrogatories - $1,810; (3) Requests for Production of  Documents - $1,880; (4) Plaintiff Submitting to Fingerprints - $1,845; and (5)  Request to Deem Requests for Admission as Admitted - $1,985. These amounts are  accounted for by attorney for Defendant, Stephen L. Backus, submitted his  declaration. The Backus declaration indicates his hourly rate is $350. Although  the Court finds this amount to be reasonable, the Court finds some of the hours  spent prior to preparing the moving papers, and the amount of time Backus  anticipated spending on reviewing the opposition papers and filing a reply  brief to be unreasonable.  Additionally,  this Court notes that if Requests for Admission have been served on  Defendant by Plaintiff prior to this hearing,  thus mooting the Motion, the Code of Civil Procedure provides a section for  mandatory sanctions in the event where substantive discovery is mooted.  “It is mandatory that the court impose a  monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) on the  party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to  requests for admission necessitated this motion.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280(c).)              In Bazan’s  declaration in opposition of the Request for Sanctions, he has requested this  Court defer in ordering any monetary sanctions at this time. (Bazan Decl., ¶  11.) Bazan declares that the failure to timely respond was not a situation  where he and his client are ignoring her responsibility in litigation, but  instead, that she was suffering from the grief of losing her husband. (Bazan  Decl., ¶¶ 14, 17.)  The Court is inclined  to continue the hearing as to the sanctions issue to enable counsel to meet and  confer to arrive at a negotiated resolution.   