 Case Number:  24TRCV00184    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling    HEARING DATE:                 May 30, 2024   CASE NUMBER:                  24TRCV00184  CASE NAME:                        Steven  Barker v. Geico General Insurance Company, et al.    MOVING PARTY:                Claimant, Steven Barker     RESPONDING PARTY:       Respondent, Geico General Insurance Company   TRIAL DATE:                        Not  Set.     MOTION:                              (1) Motion to  Compel Arbitration    Tentative Rulings:                  (1) Motion to Compel Arbitration is DENIED as to Barker’s argument  that he is able to choose any arbitrator.   The Court finds that the parties agreed to abide by AAA’s arbitration  rules, which include the selection of a AAA arbitrator from the AAA National  Roster.  As an alternative, if the  parties so agree on the record, the Court will select a recently retired  Superior Court judge from a local private judging facility such as Steven  Kleifield at ADR Services, Inc.       I. BACKGROUND  A.     Factual    On January 18, 2024, Plaintiff/Claimant, Steven Barker  (“Plaintiff”) filed a Petition to Compel Underinsured Motorist Action for  Damages against Defendant, Geico General Insurance Company, and DOES 1 through  50. Plaintiff asserts that claimant, Steven Barker’s Underinsured Motorist  Bodily Injury (“UIMBI”) claim against Respondent, Geico General Insurance  Company (“Respondent”) arises from a two-car collision occurring on April 20,  2023 (“the collision”). He alleges that this collision caused him to sustain  severe right thumb avulsion fracture, a right thumb distal nail subungual  hematoma, mid back, lower back, loss of balance and headache injuries in the  collision.    Barker contends that he was listed as a named insured  on the automobile insurance policy with Respondent, and that the policy affords  $100,000 in underinsured motorist bodily injury liability insurance liability  limits. Barker argues that the policy expressly mandates binding arbitration  when a claimant files an Underinsured Motorist Bodily Injury claim against the  Respondent and the parties cannot agree on the amount of a claimant’s  underinsured motorist bodily injury damages.    On or about October 4, 2023, Barker claims that he  resolved his third-party claim against the Underinsured Motorist (“UIM”) party  for the UIM party’s automobile insurance per person bodily injury liability  policy limits of $25,000. On October 18, 2023, Barker, through his attorney,  sent via USPS Certified Mail a formal demand to Geico for arbitrating his UIMBI  claim under the terms of the policy and California Insurance Code section  11580.2.   Barker asserts that he has diligently attempted to get  Respondent to agree to an arbitrator since October 18, 2023, to no avail. As of  this date, Barker contends he proposed three arbitrators. On March 29, 2024,  counsel for Geico sent an email stating: “Regarding selecting an arbitrator, we  are governed by the contractual provisions by with Geico…The matter(s) in  dispute shall then be settled according to American Arbitration Association  rules.” Barker’s attorney responded by stating: “As to your email below, we do  not agree that this arbitration should be arbitrated through the American  Arbitration Association (“AAA”).  This  operative insurance policy between Claimant and Respondent requires that the  binding arbitration in this case be conducted according to AAA rules only. It  does not require the parties to use an AAA arbitrator. Therefore, since the  parties cannot agree on an arbitrator, we will have the court decide this  issue.”   Thus, Claimant Barker has brought this Motion to  Compel Arbitration.    B.  Procedural    On April 17, 2024, Barker  filed a Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings. On May 16, 2024, Geico  filed an opposition brief. On May 22, 2024, Barker filed a reply brief.   II. ANALYSIS    A.    Legal  Standard  The Federal Arbitration  Act (“FAA”) states that “[a] written provision in any . . . contract evidencing  a transaction involving commerce to settle by arbitration a controversy  thereafter arising out of such contract or transaction . . . shall be valid,  irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at law or in  equity for the revocation of any contract.” (9 U.S.C. § 2.) California law  incorporates many of the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal  Arbitration Act, including a presumption in favor of arbitrability. (Engalla  v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-72.) California law states  that “[o]n petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the  existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to  the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the  petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines  that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists….” (Code Civ. Proc, §  1281.2.) “The party seeking arbitration bears the burden of proving the  existence of an arbitration agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears  the burden of proving any defense, such as unconscionability.” (Pinnacle  Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55  Cal.4th 223, 236.) Pursuant to Code of Civil  Procedure §1281.2, generally, on a petition to  compel arbitration, the court must grant the petition unless it finds either  (1) no written agreement to arbitrate exists; (2)¿the right to compel  arbitration has been waived; (3) grounds exist for revocation of the agreement;  or (4) litigation is pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or  create conflicting¿rulings on common issues.    When seeking to compel  arbitration, the initial burden lies with the moving party to demonstrate the  existence of a valid arbitration agreement by preponderance of evidence.   (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 841-42; Gamboa  v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021), 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 164-65.)  It  is sufficient for the moving party to produce a copy of the arbitration  agreement or set forth the agreement’s provisions.  (Gamboa, 72  Cal.App.5th at 165.)  The burden then shifts to the opposing party to  prove by a preponderance of evidence any defense to enforcement of the contract  or the arbitration clause.  (Ruiz, 232 Cal.App.4th at 842; Gamboa,  72 Cal.App.5th at 165.)  Subsequently, the moving party must  establish with the preponderance of admissible evidence a valid arbitration  agreement between the parties.  (Ibid.)  The trial court then  weighs all the evidence submitted and uses its discretion to make a final  determination.  (Ibid.)  “California law, ‘like [federal law],  reflects a strong policy favoring arbitration agreements and requires close  judicial scrutiny of waiver claims.’”  (Wagner Const. Co. v. Pacific  Mechanical Corp. (2007) 41 Cal.4th 19, 31.)    If the court orders  arbitration, then the court shall stay the action until arbitration is  completed.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.)    B.     Analysis   Here,  the parties do not disagree that they entered into an agreement to arbitrate. Instead,  the issue raised by the parties is whether their agreed arbitration must use an  AAA arbitrator. The relevant portions of the arbitration agreement are as  follows:    DISPUTES BETWEEN US AND AN INSURED              If  any insured making claim under this policy and we do not agree  that he is legally entitled to recover damages under his Coverage from the  owner of operator of an uninsured/underinsured motor vehicle  because of bodily  injury  to the insured, or do not agree as to the amount payable, either  party will have the right to demand arbitration.              The  matter(s) in dispute shall then be settled according to American  Arbitration Association rules. One neutral arbitrator will conduct the  arbitration.    (Goldstein Decl.,  ¶ 3, Exhibit 2.)               Claimant Barker indicates that the  language “shall then be settled according to American Arbitration Association  rules” does not indicate that an AAA arbitrator is required to be used.  However, Geico contends that the “Consumer Arbitration Rules” of the AAA  required to be followed under Claimant Barker’s Geico policy further provides  as follows:    “The Arbitrator” states:    “Arbitrators are neutral and  independent decision makers who are not employees of the AAA.” (Leos Decl., ¶  5, Exhibit C, p. 7.) Rule R-1, entitled “Applicability,”  states in pertinent part:    “(a) The parties shall have made  these Consumer Arbitration Rules (“Rules”) a part of their arbitration  agreement whenever they have provided for arbitration by the American  Arbitration Association (“AAA”)…When parties have provided for the AAA’s rules or  AAA administration as part of their consumer agreement, they shall be deemed to  have agreed that the application of the AAA’s rules and AAA administration of  the consumer arbitration shall be an essential term of their consumer  agreement.”    Rule R-15, entitled “National Roster  of Arbitrators,” states:   “The AAA maintains a National Roster  of Arbitrators (“National Roster”) and shall appoint arbitrators from this  National Roster to resolve the parties’ dispute(s).”    Rule R-16, entitled “Appointment from  National Roster,” states, in relevant part:    “(a) If the parties have not  appointed an arbitrator and have not agreed to a process for appointing the  arbitrator, immediately after the filing of the submission agreement or the  answer, or after the deadline for filing the answer, the AAA will  administratively appoint an arbitrator from the National Roster.   (c) Arbitrator(s) serving under these  Rules will be neutral and must meet the standards of R-19 with respect to being  impartial and independent.”   (Leos Decl., ¶ 7,  Exhibit C, p. 18.)               Here, this Court notes that Rule R-1  indicates that when the parties have provided for the AAA rules as part of the insuring  policy or other arbitration agreement, they shall be deemed to have agreed to  the application of the AAA rules and AAA administration of the consumer  arbitration.  AAA can only administer the  arbitration if the arbitration occurs under its auspices, i.e., under and  pursuant to the AAA.  Further, Rule R-16  notes that when the parties have not appointed an arbitrator and have not  agreed to a process for appointing the arbitrator (as the parties here have  failed to do), immediately after the filing of the submission agreement or  answer, or the deadline of the answer, the AAA will administratively appoint an  arbitrator from AAA’s list called the National Roster.                 Here, the Court determines that Geico’s  language is not a model of clarity; it could easily have simply said in the  contract that if the parties cannot agree on an arbitrator then AAA shall  appoint one from the AAA National Roster pursuant to its Consumer Arbitration  Rules.  But the Court finds that the  intent of the parties from this contractual arbitration agreement was exactly  that.  By agreeing to a contract which  states that AAA’s rules will be used in arbitration, Claimant Barker also agreed  that if the parties could not agree on an arbitrator, then per the rules of AAA  the parties would use an AAA Arbitrator. As such, the Court holds that an AAA  Arbitrator shall be appointed by AAA from its national Roster to arbitrate this  matter. In the alternative, if the parties so agree, the Court will appoint an  arbitrator for them such as recently retired judge Steven Kleifield of ADR Services, Inc.                           The date of submitting the matter to  arbitration before AAA (or as otherwise agreed) will be discussed by the  parties and this Court during oral argument.                Geico is ordered to give notice.   