  Case Number:  20TRCV00772    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative
Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 May 30, 2024¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   20TRCV00772
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Marine
Gasparian, et al v. Rolls-Royce Motor Cars NA, LLC, et al
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant
and Cross-Complainant, Rolls-Royce Motor Cars Financial Services, a division of
BMW Financial Services NA, LLS, a Delaware limited liability company and as
servicer of its assignee, Financial Services Vehicle Trust, a Delaware business
trust
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiffs,
Avakian Engineering, Inc. and Marine Gasparian 
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                       March
17, 2025 
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Defendant, Rolls-Royce Motor Cars Financial Services’ Notice
of Motion and Motion for Attorneys’ Fees 
¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED in an adjusted amount depending on oral argument. 
¿¿ 
¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿ 
On October 26, 2020,
Plaintiffs Avakian Engineering, Inc., and Marine Gasparian (collectively
“Plaintiffs”) filed this action against Rolls-Royce Motor Cars NA, LLC, Rolls-Royce
Cars Financial Services, a division of BMW Financial Services NA, LLC, O’Gara
Coach Company LLC, Neil Martin, and DOES 1 through 20. On May 31, 2022,
Plaintiffs filed a third amended complaint. On January 12, 2023, Plaintiffs
filed a Fourth Amended Complaint (“4AC”) against Defendants alleging causes of
action for: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Negligence; (3) Negligence; and (4)
Fraud. 
 
On April 5, 2023, this Court
sustained BMW’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s 4AC without leave to amend. BMW also notes that extensive written discovery
relating to Plaintiffs’ complaints were also propounded to each Plaintiff
during this same time period in the form of special interrogatories (two sets),
form interrogatories, requests for admission, and requests for document demands
(two sets). BMW notes that Plaintiffs, in turn, propounded their own discovery
requests to BMW for which the defendant prepared responses. 
 
Prior to a Judgment of Dismissal on Plaintiffs 4AC
was entered, Plaintiffs appealed the Court’s ruling. BMW notes that the Court
of Appeal informed Plaintiffs that the record did not include an appealable
order or judgment of dismissal signed by this Court. On October 30, 2023, BMW
notes that a Judgment of Dismissal with prejudice as to BMW on the 4AC was
entered. BMW further notes that the Judgment of Dismissal included language
deeming BMW the prevailing party and allowed BMW to apply for attorneys’ fees and
court costs according to proof. 
 
Now, BMW has filed this Motion for Attorneys’ Fees,
seeking to recover attorneys’ fees in the sum of $61,545 for actions takin in
contesting Plaintiffs’ claims. BMW clarifies it is not seeking to recover
attorneys’ fees associated with its pending cross-complaint or the pending
appeal. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
On March 18, 2024, Defendant
filed this Motion for Attorneys’ Fees. On March 18, 2024, Defendant also filed
a memorandum of costs. 
 
This motion was originally
heard on April 23, 2024, but this Court continued the hearing to allow
Plaintiffs to file an opposition to what at that time was an uncontested motion.  On May 16, 2024, Plaintiffs, Avakian
Engineering, Inc. and Marine Gasparian filed an opposition brief. On May 22,
2024, Defendant filed a reply brief. 
¿ 
¿II.
ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A. Legal Standard 
¿ 
Attorney’s fees are recoverable when
authorized by contract, statute, or law. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subd.
(a)(10).)  
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 1033.5, subdivision (a)(10), attorney fees when authorized by contract,
statute or law are allowable as costs and may be awarded upon a noticed motion
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1033.5, subdivision (c)(5).  
 
Where a contract specifically provides
for attorney’s fees and costs incurred to enforce the contract, attorney’s fees
and costs must be awarded to the party who is determined to be the prevailing
party on the contract. (Civ. Code., § 1717, subd. (a).) “Reasonable attorney’s
fees shall be fixed by the court and shall be an element of the costs of suit.”
(Ibid.) 
 
A prevailing party is defined as follows: 
 
(4) “Prevailing
party” includes the party with a net monetary recovery, a defendant in whose
favor a dismissal is entered, a defendant where neither plaintiff nor defendant
obtains any relief, and a defendant as against those plaintiffs who do not
recover any relief against that defendant. If any party recovers other than
monetary relief and in situations other than as specified, the “prevailing
party” shall be as determined by the court, and under those circumstances, the
court, in its discretion, may allow costs or not and, if allowed, may apportion
costs between the parties on the same or adverse sides pursuant to rules
adopted under Section 1034. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1032, subd. (a)(4).) 
 
In determining what fees are reasonable,
California courts apply the “lodestar” approach. (See, e.g., Holguin v. DISH
Network LLC (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 1310, 1332.) This inquiry “begins with
the ‘lodestar,’ i.e., the number of hours reasonably expended multiplied by the
reasonable hourly rate.” (See PLCM Group v. Drexler (2000) 22 Cal.4th
1084, 1095.) From there, the “[t]he lodestar figure may then be adjusted, based
on consideration of factors specific to the case, in order to fix the fee at
the fair market value for the legal services provided.” (Ibid.) Relevant
factors include: “(1) the novelty and difficulty of the questions involved, (2)
the skill displayed in presenting them, (3) the extent to which the nature of
the litigation precluded other employment by the attorneys, [and] (4) the
contingent nature of the fee award.” (Ketchum v. Moses (2001) 24 Cal.4th
1122, 1132.) 
 
The party seeking fees has the burden of
documenting the appropriate hours expended and hourly rates. (City of Colton
v. Singletary (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 751, 784.) This burden requires
competent evidence as to the nature and value of the services rendered. (Martino
v. Denevi (1986) 182 Cal.App.3d 553, 559.) A plaintiff’s verified
billing invoices are prima facie evidence that the costs, expenses, and
services listed were necessarily incurred. (Hadley v. Krepel (1985) 167
Cal.App.3d 677, 682.)
 
B. Discussion 
            
            Preliminarily, Plaintiffs’
opposition brief argues that Defendant’ Motion for Attorneys’ fees is untimely
filed as it was filed more than sixty (60) days after Notice of Entry of
Judgment. Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1702(b)(1), a Motion
for Attorneys’ Fees must be brough sixty (60) days after the clerk serves on
the party filing the notice of entry of judgment, sixty (60) days after the
party filing the notice serves or is served by a party with a Notice of Entry
of Judgment, of 180 days after the entry of judgment. Plaintiffs argue that the
judgment was entered on April 5, 2023, with the notice of entry of
order/judgment served on April 10, 2023. The Court disagrees.  On May 5, 2023, Plaintiffs appealed the
Demurrer ruling thus staying the matter under Code of Civil Procedure section
916(a). Code of Civil procedure section 916(a) states, “the perfecting of an
appeal stays proceedings in the trial court upon the judgment or order appealed
from or upon the matters embraced therein or affected thereby, including
enforcement of the judgment or order, but the trial court may proceed upon any
other matter embraced in the action and not affected by the judgment or order.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 916, subd. (a).) As such, even if Defendant brought its
motion pursuant to the April 5, 2023 date, the Court would not have
jurisdiction to rule on the Motion for Attorneys’ Fees as such a determination
would have been “embraced” in and/or “affected” by the appeal and would thus be
void. 
 
            Instead, it was actually on October
30, 2023, that this Court signed a Judgment of Dismissal without Prejudice of
Defendant. Neither party provided this Court with case precedent as to timing
on this issue. Although not argued in briefing, the Court would like oral
argument as to whether the appeal stayed the sixty (60) days deadline from the
Notice of Judgment, twenty-four (24) days prior to the appeal, leaving thirty-six
(36) days after appellate decision. If this was the case, then certainly, this
Motion for Attorneys’ Fees would be untimely. 
 
            However, if the clock started to
re-run on October 30, 2023, by this Court’s judgment (which the Court is more
persuaded by), then the motion is timely. 
 
Appeal
& Stay
 
Here, this Court notes that on May 5, 2023, Plaintiffs appealed
this Court’s final ruling and judgment of dismissal after an order sustaining
demurrer. “[T]he filing of a
notice of appeal does not deprive the trial court of jurisdiction to award
attorney fees as costs post-trial. Although a prevailing party at trial may not
be the prevailing party after an appeal, it has been held that a motion for
attorney fees is not premature despite the filing of a notice of appeal.
[Citation.] . . . Under
section 916, “the trial court is divested of subject matter jurisdiction
over any matter embraced in or affected by the appeal during pendency of that
appeal.” (Varian Medical Systems, Inc. v. Delfino (2005) 35 Cal.4th 180,
191.) However,
an award of attorney fees as costs is a
collateral matter which is embraced in the action but is not affected by the
order from which an appeal is taken. [Citations.] Consequently, filing of a
notice of appeal does not stay any proceedings to determine the matter of costs
and does not prevent the trial court from determining a proper award of
attorney fees claimed as costs.” (Bankes v. Lucas¿(1992) 9 Cal.App.4th
365, 368–369.) 
 
Attorneys’
Fees 
 
            First, Defendant notes that
Plaintiffs filed an original plus four amended complaints making a total of
five (5) pleadings, and in response, Defendant brought four meritorious demurrers
before the Court ultimately sustained its demurrer to Plaintiffs’ 4AC, without
leave to amend. Additionally, Defendant notes that extensive written discovery
was propounded to each Plaintiff in the form of special interrogatories (2
sets), form interrogatories, requests for admission and document demand (2
sets) with review of the responses. Further, BMW notes that Plaintiffs
propounded similar discovery requests to BMW that required the defendant to provide
responses, the substance of which later supported the Court’s dismissal.
Defendant also contends it incurred additional fees to secure the dismissal of
improperly named party Rolls-Royce Motor Cars NA, LLC, to communicate with
counsel for Plaintiffs and counsel for co-defendants, for the review and
analysis of discovery propounded by Plaintiffs on Defendant O’Gara Coach
Company LLC, and Defendants Andranik Antonyan and A and D Auto Body Inc., and
for the appearances at numerous CMCs. 
 
            In Plaintiffs’ opposition brief, Plaintiffs
argue that if this Court is inclined on granting attorneys’ fees, they should
be substantially reduced because one of the causes of action “Negligence” and
Civil Code section 1717 does not apply as this claim is based on tort and not
contractual claims. Here, Plaintiffs note they only have two causes of action –
one for Breach of Contract, and the other for Negligence. As such, Plaintiffs
argue that only one cause of action – Breach of Contract can seek attorneys’
fees. However, as noted by Defendant, Plaintiffs have not made a challenge to
any specific billing entries tied to said negligence cause of action. On a fee
motion, “it is the burden of the challenging party to point to specific items
challenged, with sufficient argument and citations to the evidence” to justify
a reduction in the lodestar shown by the moving papers.  (Premier Medical Management Systems, Inc.
v. California Ins. Guarantee Assn. (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 550.)  The challenging party here has not met that
burden.
 
            The Court is unable to delineate
from attorneys’ fees collected from the negligence cause of action versus the
breach of contract cause of action unless on each of the motions Plaintiffs
were able to show that half or some other percentage or amount of time expended
by defense counsel in writing, researching, briefing, arguing, etc. was spent
on the negligence cause of and half or some other percentage or amount was on
the Breach of Contract action. It is the challenging party’s obligation, not the
Court’s, to audit the billing statements and identify which if any entries are
allegedly padded, excessive, or expended on tasks outside of the contractual
fee provision’s ambit.  When a
“voluminous fee application” is made, the trial court may “make
across-the-board percentage cuts either in the number of hours claimed or in
the final lodestar figure.” (Kerkeles v.
City of San Jose (2015) 243 Cal.App.4th 88, 102, quoting Gates v. Deukmejian (9th Cir.1992) 987
F.2d 1392, 1399.)  However, percentage
cuts to large fee requests are subject to “heightened scrutiny” on appeal to
ensure that the trial court gives a concise but clear explanation of its
reasons for choosing a given percentage. (Gates,
supra, at p. 1400.)  
 
            As indicated in the previous minute
order, the Court is willing to lower the amount sought, based on its own
discretion, as the Court notes the demurrers in this case were virtually the
same from one to the other. Thus, the Court previously noted it found it unlikely
that Defendant’s attorney expended as many hours on the second, third, and
fourth demurrers as it was already well acquainted with the issues and
arguments.  The Court is willing to
entertain oral argument as to these issues.  
 
III. CONCLUSION¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
For the foregoing reasons, Defendant’s
Motion for Attorneys’ Fees is tentatively GRANTED, but in an adjusted amount depending
on the outcome of oral argument. 
¿¿¿ 