 Case Number:  23TRCV03160    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling   HEARING DATE:                 May 30, 2024  CASE NUMBER:                 23TRCV03160 CASE NAME:                        Conjunction  junction, LLC v. Gordon Leaon, et al.  MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff, Conjunction Junction, LLC and  Cross-Defendant, Peppertree Estate LLC RESPONDING PARTY:       Non-Party,  The Assessor of the County of Los Angeles    TRIAL DATE:                        September 16, 2024  MOTION:                             (1) Motion to Compel Further  Responses to Deposition Questions and Production of Documents, Set One                                                 (2) Motion for  Contempt of Court   Tentative Rulings:                   (1) Deny as to Document  Categories 1-5; Grant as to Assessor’s Failure to Produce a PMK on Category 6 at  the deposition.  As to Categories 7 and  8, Argue but it appears to the Court that the Tax Collector, not the Assessor,  would be the Correct Deponent.                                                               As to  Deposition Questions numbered in Plaintiff’s Separate Statement, the Court  tentatively Grants the motion to compel further deposition as to Questions No.  1-8, and 15-23, either with the same witness or with a more knowledgeable  designee on those topics now that the Assessor has a better ide of what subjects  Plaintiff will be asking about besides the ones specifically listed in the SDT.  As to questions 9, 10, and 12, the witness  and the Assessor’s counsel conceded that the witness who was produced for  deposition was not being produced as the PMK/designee for categories 6-8.  Thus, at the compelled deposition with  respect to those categories, a different witness needs to be designated.  Questions 11, 13 and 14 appear to be directed  to the wrong County department as noted above with respect to document  categories 7 and 8, so the Court is inclined to deny the motion to compel  further answers to those questions.                                                   (2) Plaintiff’s  application for contempt is denied without prejudice.  In the Court’s view, Plaintiff’s counsel made  it difficult for the Assessor’s office to produce the correct witness for the  deposition after a written response had indicated that no such records existed  as to Categories 1-5.  The witness’  counsel had a substantial justification for objections and the instructions not  to answer, even though the Court finds the instructions not to answer the 23  listed questions to have been mistaken  I. BACKGROUND   A. Factual  On September 25, 2023,  Plaintiff, Conjunction Junction, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against  Defendants, Gordon Leon, Michael Barth, Sandy Marshall, Jim Knight, Scott  Kerwin, Colleen Miller, collectively dba ACLAD dba Abalone Cove Landslide  Abatement District, and DOES 1 through 100. On January 12, 2024, Plaintiff  filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging causes of action for: (1)  Declaratory Relief; (2) Fraud – Concealment; (3) Fraud – Intentional  Misrepresentation; (4) Fraud – Negligent Misrepresentation; (5) Constructive  Trust; and (6) Violation of 42 U.S.C. § 1983. On March 12, 2024, this Court  SUSTAINED the Defendants, Gordon Leon, Michael Barth, Jim Knight, and Colleen  Miller’s demurrer to the FAC.    On March 26, 2024,  Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) alleging causes of action  for: (1) Declaratory Relief; (2) Fraud – Concealment; (3) Fraud – Intentional  Misrepresentation; (4) Fraud – Negligent Misrepresentation; (5) Constructive  Trust; (6) Violation of 42 U.S.C. § 1983; (7) Violation of State and Local  Election Laws; (8) Violation of The Brown Act; (9) violations of Prevailing  Wage Laws; (10) Violations of Proposition 13 and 218; (11) Breach of Fiduciary  Duty; and (12) Public Records Act. This Court sustained demurrer as to the  prescriptive easement and adverse possession causes of action, and overruled  demurrer as to the equitable easement cause of action.    Plaintiff notes that  Defendant has contended, as one potential defense, that the property lines move  along with the improvements due to the landslide and has also claimed a  prescriptive easement based upon purported claims of paying property taxes for  the section of Plaintiff’s property now occupied by the improvements. As such,  Plaintiff subpoenaed the Los Angeles County Assessor’s Office to determine,  among other things, whether the Assessor’s Office had polices that tended in  reasons to prove or disprove these defenses.    Plaintiff notes it  issued the subpoena on March 5, 2024 and was served via personal service on  March 7, 2024. Plaintiff contends that on March 12, 2024, Namanja Pavlovic of  the Legal Services Section of the Los Angeles County Assessor’s Office sent a response  letter to Plaintiff stating the Assessor’s position regarding the categories of  documents, akin to a written response to a Public Records Act request.  Plaintiff contends the letter may or may not  qualify as objections both because it did not specifically object to any  categories and because Plaintiff’s search on Nemanja Pavlovic appears to show  that he is not an attorney licensed to practice in California.    On March 28, 2024, Plaintiff  took the deposition of the Los Angeles County Assessor’s Office’s designated  witness or Person Most Knowledgeable (“PMK”), Ms. Anquino. Plaintiff notes that  at the deposition, Ms. Aquino, a civil engineer who testified that she is the  supervising Geographic Information System technician at the County Assessor’s  Office, admitted that she was not the PMK for any of the categories of  testimony and when questioned, the Los Angeles County Assessor’s Office’s  attorney instructed her not to answer any questions as to almost every  substantive question.  A review of the  transcript shows, however, that Ms. Anquino DID answer some substantive  questions such as her not being aware if the Assessor’s office is developing  any policy regarding landslides, and not knowing who at the assessor’s office  would be more knowledgeable than she is.    She testified that to her knowledge, thee are no policies regarding  whether landslides affect property lines.   These answers came before any instructions not to answer additional  questions.  She later testified that “the  assessors [office] has no policy regarding landslides or movement or  improvement[s].”  (Depo. At  20:22-21-2.)     Plaintiff notes it  attempted to meet and confer regarding the deposition via email and phone, but  that Los Angeles County Assessor’s Office, via counsel, “refused to compromise  on any issues.”  Not surprisingly, in the  Assessor’s Opposition papers, the Assessor asserts that its counsel attempted  to discuss the scope of the deposition in advance, discuss the written response  given before the deposition, and attempt to better understand what question  might be asked to facilitate a better deposition.     B. Procedural              On April 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed this Motion for Contempt  of Court and to Compel Deposition and Production of Documents. On May 16, 2024,  non-party, The Assessor of the County of Los Angeles filed an opposition brief.  On May 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply brief.   II. EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS    Overrule: Paragraph numbers 6, 10,  11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17, 19, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 31, 32, 33, 35, 36,  38, 39, 41.  Mr. Jacobs specifically  cites to the pages and lines of an attached deposition transcript   Sustain: none.              III. ANALYSIS   A.     Legal  Standard    Code of Civil Procedure  section 2025.450, section (a) provides:     “If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action  or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person  designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without  having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for  examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document,  electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the  deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling  the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of  any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in  the deposition notice.”    (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,  subd. (a).)     The motion must “be  accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when  the deponent fails to attend the deposition…by a declaration stating that the  petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (2).) A court shall impose monetary  sanctions if the motion to compel is granted unless the one subject to  sanctions acted with substantial justification or other circumstances would  make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code. Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,  subd. (g)(1).)     B.     Discussion    The Court  has read and considered the parties’ briefs and the efforts by each side to analogize  different bodies of law as to different forms to discovery to this unusual  circumstance of a non-party providing a written response to a deposition  subpoena duces tecum followed by a witness with counsel at the deposition  itself.  Both sides argue from the Second  District’s decision in Gallagher v. Boller (1964) 231 Cal.App.2d 482,  but the case is not on all fours with the instant matter.  For one, in Gallagher there was no  third-party subpoena as there is here.   Instead, Gallagher was a mandamus action to compel a party, the assessor,  to permit the plaintiff to inspect documents in the assessor's office relating  to a neighboring property owner’s tax-exempt status with respect to the  neighboring church’s operation of certain property that allegedly competed with  Plaintiff’s business.  Here, the Assessor  is a non-party being subpoenaed to provide evidence bearing on the potential  existence of assessment policies relevant to a prescriptive easement claim and  whether earth movement or shifting property lines do or do not trigger a  reassessment for property tax purposes.  Further,  in Gallagher the Assessor admitted that it had possession of the  Church’s application for tax exemption, which was a critical document sought by  the Plaintiff and which the trial court and the Second District required the  Assessor to produce.  Gallagher  also addressed the Revenue and Taxation Code privacy objection under Section  451.   Here, the  Assessor’s PMK testified that to her knowledge, no such documents exist as to  categories 1-5 of the subpoena.  The Court  sees no basis to compel the Assessor to locate another witness as to categories  1-5, unless there is some basis for believing that another witness would  testify differently as to the existence of those policies, which is what  Plaintiff specifically asked for in the subpoena.  Ms. Anquino and her counsel at the deposition  conceded that Ms. Anquino was not being produced as the PMK for categories 6,  7, and 8.  The Court finds that the  Assessor must designate and produce a designed for Category 6 in eh SDT.  As to Categories 7 and 8, the Court will take  oral argument but the Court tentatively denies the motion as it appears from  the totality of the records that the Tax Collector, not the Assessor, would be  the Correct Deponent for those two categories.    As to Deposition Questions numbered  in Plaintiff’s Separate Statement, the Court tentatively Grants the motion to  compel a further deposition.  As to  Questions No. 1-8, and 15-23, either Ms. Anquino or a witness with more  knowledge on those topics should be produced, now that the Assessor has a  better idea of what subjects Plaintiff will be asking about besides the ones  specifically listed in the SDT.  The Court  finds these question to be reasonably calculated to lead tot eh discovery of  admissible evidence, and finds the question to be broadly related to the  policies sought by Categories 1-5.  Even  if there are no written policies, the manner in which the Assessor’s office  handled or addressed similar subjects on reassessment or in litigation could  tend in reason to show an implied policy or a practice on those subjects.  As to questions 9, 10, and 12, the witness  and the Assessor’s counsel conceded that Ms. Anquino was not being produced as  the PMK/designee for categories 6-8.   Thus, at the compelled deposition with respect to those deposition  questions, a different witness needs to be designated.  Questions 11, 13 and 14 appear to be directed  to the wrong County department as noted above with respect to document  categories 7 and 8.   Plaintiff’s application for  contempt is denied without prejudice.  In  the Court’s view, Plaintiff’s counsel made it difficult for the Assessor’s  office to produce the correct witness for the deposition after a written  response had indicated that no such records existed as to Categories 1-5.  The witness’ counsel had a substantial  justification for objections and the instructions not to answer, even though  the Court finds the instructions not to answer the 23 listed questions to have  been mistaken.  