 Case Number:  24STCV07572    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  73 07/12/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge
presiding 
 
SPAGNOLA, et al. v. FORD MOTOR
COMPANY, et al. (24STCV07572)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiffs/opposing party:  Tionna
Carvalho (Strategic Legal Practices)
Counsel for
Defendants/moving party: Judd Gilefsky (Lewis Brisbois Bisgaard & Smith LLP)
 
Demurrer AND MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF
tHE complaint (filed 04/26/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The Demurrer
to the sixth cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
The Motion to
Strike is GRANTED, with 20 days leave to amend.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 26,
2024, Plaintiffs Chelsea Spagnola and Michael Spagnola filed this action
against Defendants Ford Motor Company (“Ford”) and Autonation Ford Valencia
(“Autonation”). 
 
This consumer
warranty case arises in connection with a 2002 Ford Explorer (the “Subject
Vehicle”) that Plaintiff allegedly purchased from Defendant in July 2022. (Compl.,
¶ 7.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendant concealed a known engine and transmission
defects that caused various problems, including delayed acceleration, harsh
shifting, and jerking. (Compl., ¶ 24.) Plaintiff presented the Subject Vehicle
to Defendants for a reasonable number of repair attempts to no avail. (Compl.,
¶ 86.) Under the
Song-Beverly Act, Defendants had an affirmative duty to promptly offer to
repurchase or replace the Subject Vehicle at the time it failed to conform the
Subject Vehicle to the terms of the express warranty after a reasonable number
of repair attempts. (Compl., ¶ 15.) Defendants have
failed to either promptly replace the Subject Vehicle or to promptly make
restitution in accordance with the Song-Beverly Act.
(Compl., ¶ 16.)
 
The Complaint
alleges six causes of action for: (1) Violation of Civil Code Section 1793.2(D);
(2) Violation of Civil Code Section 1793.2(B); (3) Violation of Civil Code
Section 1793.2(A)(3); (4) Breach of the Implied Warranty of Merchantability; (5)
Negligent Repair; and (6) Fraudulent Inducement Concealment.
 
On 4/26/2024,
Defendants filed the instant demurrer to the sixth cause of action for
fraudulent inducement – concealment and motion to strike the prayer for
punitive damages.  
·      
Defendants argue the Sixth Cause of Action for Fraud fails to
state sufficient facts to constitute a valid cause of action, fails to meet the
heightened requisite standard of specificity for a fraud cause of action, and
therefore, is uncertain.
·      
Here, Plaintiffs allege “Ford was well aware and knew that the
transmission installed in the Vehicle was defective but failed to disclose this
fact to the Plaintiffs at the time of the sale and thereafter.” (Complaint, ¶
77). Yet, the Complaint alleges no direct communication between Plaintiff and
Ford whatsoever, much less relative to the purchase of the Subject Vehicle.
o  
Plaintiff failed to allege any specific statements by Ford upon
which Plaintiff relied and fails to identify any specific person identified.
·      
Plaintiffs fail to allege sufficient facts demonstrating Ford had
a duty to disclose.
o  
Plaintiffs contend “Ford was under a duty to Plaintiffs to
disclose the defective nature of the Subject Vehicle and its transmission, its
safety consequences and/or the associated repair costs.” (Complaint, ¶ 82.) 
o  
A duty to disclose material safety concerns “can be actionable in
four situations (1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the
plaintiff; (2) when the defendant has exclusive knowledge of material facts not
known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively conceals a material
fact from the plaintiff; or (4) when the defendant makes partial
representations but also suppresses some material fact.” LiMandri v. Judkins
(1997) 52 Cal. App. 4th 326, 336.
o  
Plaintiffs fail to allege a fiduciary relationship with Ford
o  
Plaintiffs Failed to Allege Facts Demonstrating Ford Possessed
Exclusive Knowledge of Material Facts
o  
Plaintiffs Failed to Allege Facts Demonstrating Ford Actively
Concealed Material Facts or Made Partial Representations
·      
Defendants move to strike punitive damages
 
On 5/31/2024,
Plaintiffs filed oppositions to the demurrer and motion to strike.  
·      
Plaintiffs argue the Complaint contains all the allegations
required to show a prima facie fraud case in accordance with Dhital v.
Nissan N. Am., Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, 843-44, “Dhital”, review
granted Feb. 1, 2023, 523 P.3d 392.
o  
Here, Plaintiffs alleged they entered into a warranty contract
with Ford around July 9, 2022 (Complaint, ¶¶ 7-8); Plaintiffs identified the
material facts Ford knew prior to their acquisition of the Subject Vehicle that
Ford withheld from Plaintiffs (Id. ¶¶ 24); Plaintiffs alleged that
Defendant had superior knowledge of the facts (Id., ¶¶ 25, 79, 82a-c);
the safety risks posed by the Transmission Defect (Id., ¶¶ 24, 78); the
materiality of that information (Id. ¶¶ 84-85); Plaintiffs’ reliance on
the non-disclosure (Ibid.); and damages. (Id., ¶¶ 14, 22, 87-88.)
·      
Here the alleged fraud was committed through intentional
concealment, as in Dhital, where the corporate entity had been aware of
the alleged defect yet continued to market and sell vehicles without disclosing
the defect to prospective purchasers. (Dhital, supra, 84 Cal.App.5th at
833.)
·      
A “Direct Transactional Relationship” Is Not Required Under
California Law for the Manufacturer to Have a Duty to Disclose
o  
The Transmission Defect Is a Material Fact
o  
The Transmission Defect Poses Safety Risks
o  
The Transmission Defect Arose During the Warranty Period
·      
Ford Had Exclusive Knowledge of the Transmission Defect, and TSBs
Issued by Ford to Its Dealerships with Varying Explanations Also Show Its
Active Concealment of the Transmission Defect
·      
Because
there is a viable fraud claim, punitive damages are available through Civil
Code section 3294.
 
 
On 06/14/2024, Defendants filed replies
to Plaintiffs’ oppositions.
·      
Plaintiffs
claim they adequately plead specificity relying primarily on generic
allegations similar to those in Dhital
o   However, in Dhital, the
plaintiff’s vehicle was a 2013 Nissan Sentra, and the vehicles with the
purported CVT defect included 2013-2017 Sentra vehicles. (Dhital v. Nissan
North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal. App. 5th 828, 833-834.) In contrast,
here Plaintiffs’ vehicle is a 2022 Ford Explorer, and Plaintiffs’ Complaint
includes non-specific, conclusory statements regarding Ford vehicles that are
not Explorers. None of the NHTSA references are to 2022 Ford Explorer vehicles
·      
Plaintiffs
Failed to Demonstrate Ford Had a Duty to Disclose
o   Plaintiff fails to cite to a single
technical service bulletin, recall, or document that applies to a 2022 Ford
Explorer
o   Plaintiffs fail to allege that they
bought the vehicle from a Ford dealership or that Ford’s authorized dealerships
were its agents for purposes of the sale of Ford vehicles to consumers as was
stated in Dhital.
·      
Defendants
maintain that the Court should strike Plaintiffs’ request for punitive damages.
ANALYSIS
 
A.     Legal
Standard for Demurrer
 
A demurrer tests the sufficiency of whether the
complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context—any
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts
alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the
complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Id.) The
only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,
states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p.
747.) 
 
B.     Meet and
Confer Requirement 
 
“Before filing a demurrer pursuant to
this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a).)  
 
Here, counsel for Defendants sent an email to Plaintiffs on April 18, 2024, discussing the basis of Defendants’ demurrer and motion to
strike, and requesting a telephonic conference. (Elias Decl., Ex.
1.) It does not appear that any discussions took place between the parties and
no further meet and confer efforts were made before Defendants filed the
instant motions on April 26, 2024. The Court finds Defendants’ efforts fall short of the good-faith effort
requirements set forth in Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41(a). However,
failure to meet and confer is not a proper ground for overruling a demurrer.
(CCP § 430.41(a)(4).) Thus, the Court continues on the merits of
the motion. 
 
C.    
Demurrer to the Sixth Cause of Action
for Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment
 
a.    
Sufficient
Specificity
 
Defendants
argue that the Complaint fails to
plead a cause of action for fraud with sufficient specificity.
 
“[T]he
elements of an action for fraud and deceit based on a concealment are: (1) the
defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material fact; (2) the defendant
must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3) the
defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the
intent to defraud the plaintiff; (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of
the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or
suppressed fact; and (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the
fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.” (Boschma v. Home Loan
Center, Inc. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 230, 248.)¿ 
 
Ordinarily,
”fraud must be pleaded specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not
suffice.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.). “This
particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, where, to
whom, and by what means” the alleged fraud occurred. (Id.) The purpose of the particularity
requirement is to “separate meritorious and nonmeritorious cases, if possible
in advance of trial.” (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th
167, 184.)¿¿¿¿ 
 
Some cases, however, conclude that
this standard is less stringent when the defendant already has “ ‘full
information concerning the facts of the controversy.’ ” (Committee on
Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197,
217, superseded by statute on other grounds as stated in Californians for
Disability Rights v. Mervyn's, LLC (2006) 39 Cal.4th 223, 227.) Relaxation
of the specificity requirement is particularly appropriate in
a¿concealment¿case.¿ Unlike intentional misrepresentation, which requires some
affirmative representation or promise, a fraudulent¿concealment¿is the absence
of something, the suppression of a fact. (Civ. Code, section 1710.)¿¿ 
 
The
courts have ruled that less specificity as to fraud claims is required if it
appears from the nature of allegations that defendant must necessarily possess
full information, or if the facts lie more in the knowledge of opposing
parties. (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement System & Planning
Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384-1385 [“it does not appear
necessary to require each of the 38 plaintiffs to allege each occasion on which
an agent of either defendant could have disclosed …. Surely defendants have
records of their dealings with the plaintiffs”] accord Bushell v. JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 915, 931 [“plaintiffs did not have
to specify the … personnel who prepared these documents because that
information is uniquely within … [defendant’s] knowledge”].) “‘[T]he courts
should not ... seek to absolve the defendant from liability on highly technical
requirements of form in pleading. Pleading facts in ordinary and concise
language is as permissible in fraud cases as in any others, and liberal
construction of the pleading is as much a duty of the court in these as in
other cases.’” (Appollo Capital Fund, LLC v. Roth Capital Partners, LLC
(2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 226, 242.)¿ 
 
Here, the Complaint alleges that Plaintiffs entered into a warranty contract with Ford around July
9, 2022 (Complaint, ¶¶ 7-8); Plaintiffs identified the material facts Ford knew
prior to their acquisition of the Subject Vehicle that Ford withheld from
Plaintiffs, specifically the Transmission Defects (Id. ¶¶ 24);
Plaintiffs alleged that Defendant had superior knowledge of the facts (Id.,
¶¶ 25, 79, 82a-c); the safety risks posed by the Transmission Defect (Id.,
¶¶ 24, 78); the materiality of that information (Id. ¶¶ 84-85);
Plaintiffs’ reliance on the non-disclosure (Ibid.); and damages. (Id.,
¶¶ 14, 22, 87-88.) 
 
Courts have found the above to be sufficiently
pleaded for a fraud cause of action. (Dhital v. Nissan N. Am., Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, 843-44, review granted Feb. 1, 2023.)
 
In Dhital,
the plaintiffs alleged the following. “[O]n November 4, 2012, they purchased a
new 2013 Nissan Sentra from a Nissan dealership in San Leandro.” (Dhital,
supra, 84 Cal.App.5th at p. 833.) “On three occasions in 2015,
plaintiffs took the car to an authorized Nissan repair facility because of
transmission problems, including stalling, jerking, and lack of power. 
They eventually decided to stop using the car due to their concern it posed a
risk to their safety and the safety of others ….” (Ibid.) The “Plaintiffs
[further] alleged [that] Nissan manufactured or distributed more than 500,000
vehicles in the United States that were equipped with defective continuously
variable transmissions (CVT’s), including plaintiffs’ Sentra and other
Sentras for model years 2013 through 2017. (Ibid. (emphasis added).)   
 
“As to
Nissan’s knowledge that the transmissions were defective, [the] plaintiffs [in Dhital]
alleged in part that Nissan ‘knew or should have known about the safety
hazard posed by the defective transmissions before the sale of CVT-equipped
vehicles from premarket testing, consumer complaints to the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration (“NHTSA”), consumer complaints made directly to
Nissan and its dealers, and other sources which drove Nissan to issue Technical
Service Bulletins acknowledging the transmission’s defect.” (Id.
at p. 834 (emphasis added).)  Further, “Nissan should not have sold,
leased, or marketed the CVT-equipped vehicles without a full and complete
disclosure of the transmission defect, and should have voluntarily recalled all
CVT-equipped vehicles long ago.” (Ibid.)   
 
According to
the Court of Appeal, the Dhital plaintiffs sufficiently pleaded
fraudulent concealment to overcome a demurrer by alleging that “[1] the CVT
transmissions installed in numerous Nissan vehicles (including the one
plaintiffs purchased) were defective; [2] Nissan knew of the defects and the
hazards they posed; [3] Nissan had exclusive knowledge of the defects but
intentionally concealed and failed to disclose that information; [4] Nissan
intended to deceive plaintiffs by concealing known transmission problems; [5]
plaintiffs would not have purchased the car if they had known of the defects;
and [6] plaintiffs suffered damages in the form of money paid to purchase the
car.” (Dhital, supra, 84 Cal.App.5th at p. 844.)
 
In Defendants’ Reply, Defendants attempt to differentiate
the facts in Dhital from this case by arguing that in
Dhital, the plaintiff’s vehicle was a 2013 Nissan Sentra, and the
vehicles with the purported CVT defect included 2013-2017 Sentra vehicles. (Dhital
v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal. App. 5th 828, 833-834.)
Defendants argue that on the other hand in this case, Plaintiffs’ vehicle is a
2022 Ford Explorer, and Plaintiffs’ Complaint includes non-specific statements
regarding Ford vehicles that are not Explorers. None of the technical service
bulletins (“TSBs”) referenced in the Complaint are specifically regarding 2022
Ford Explorer vehicles. However, the Court does not find Defendants’ argument
persuasive as the Complaint alleges that Defendants “knew that vehicles
equipped with the same 10-speed transmission as the Vehicle suffered
from one or more defects that can cause the vehicles and their 10-speed
transmissions to experience hesitation and/or delayed acceleration; harsh
and/or hard shifting; jerking, shuddering, and/or juddering.” (Complaint, ¶ 24
(emphasis added).) Thus, although the vehicles referenced in the Complaint that
Defendants issued TSBs for were not 2022 Ford Explorers, they were equipped
with the same 10-speed transmission that suffered from the same Transmission
Defect. 
 
Therefore, similar to the allegations pled in Dhital,
the Court finds Plaintiffs have pled a cause of action for fraud with
sufficient specificity.
 
b.     Duty to
Disclose
 
Defendants
also argue that the Complaint fails to allege a transactional relationship
giving rise to a duty to disclose. 
 
“There are “four circumstances in
which nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when
the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the
defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff;
(3) when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff;
and (4) when the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses
some material facts. [Citation.]’ [Citation.]” (LiMandri v. Judkins
(1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 336.) A duty to disclose may also arise when a
defendant possesses or exerts control over material facts not readily available
to the plaintiff. (Jones v. ConocoPhillips Co. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th
1198, 1199; Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement System & Planning
Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1256, 1384 [“Even under the strict rules
of common law pleading, one of the canons was that less particularity is
required when the facts lie more in the knowledge of the opposite party”].) 
 
The California
Supreme Court “has described the necessary relationship giving rise to a duty
to disclose as a ‘transaction’ between the plaintiff and defendant ….” (Bigler-Engler,
supra, 7 Cal.App.5th at p. 311; Warner Construction Corp. v. City of Los
Angeles (1970) 2 Cal.3d 285, 294 [“In transactions which do not involve
fiduciary or confidential relations”]; Hoffman v. 162 North Wolfe LLC
(2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 1178, 1187–89 [rejecting concealment claim where
plaintiffs “were not involved in a transaction with the parties they claim
defrauded them”]; LiMandri, supra, 52 Cal.App.4th at p. 337 [“such a
relationship can only come into being as a result of some sort of transaction
between the parties”]; Kovich v. Paseo Del Mar Homeowners Ass'n (1996)
41 Cal.App.4th 863, 866-867 [no duty to disclose where complaint alleged no
facts that defendant “acted as a seller, was a party to [a]contract, or assumed
a special relationship” with plaintiff.])¿ 
 
Here, the Complaint alleges Ford had alleged exclusive knowledge of the alleged transmission
defect. The Complaint alleges:
 
“[P]rior to
Plaintiffs acquiring the Vehicle, [Ford] was well aware and knew that the
transmission installed in the Vehicle was defective but failed to disclose this
fact to the Plaintiffs at the time of the sale and thereafter.” (Complaint, ¶ 77.)
 
“[Ford]
acquired its knowledge of the Transmission Defect prior to Plaintiffs acquiring
the Subject Vehicle, through sources not available to consumers such as
Plaintiffs, including but not limited to pre-production and post-production
testing data, early consumer complaints about the transmission defect made
directly to [Ford] and its network of dealers, aggregate warranty data compiled
from [Ford's] network of dealers, testing conducted by [Ford] in response to
these complaints, as well warranty repair and part replacements data received
by [Ford] from [Ford's] network of dealers, amongst other sources of internal
information.” (Id., ¶ 79.)
 
“Defendant [Ford]
was in a superior position from various internal sources to know (or should
have known) the true state of facts about the material defects contained in
vehicle equipped with the defective transmission.” (Ibid.)
 
“In failing
to disclose the defects in the Vehicle's transmission, Defendant [Ford] has
knowingly and intentionally concealed material facts and breached its duty not
to do so.” (Id., ¶ 83.)
 
“The facts
concealed or not disclosed by Defendant [Ford] to Plaintiffs are material in
that a reasonable person would have considered them to be important in deciding
whether or not to purchase the Subject Vehicle.” (Id., ¶ 84.)
 
The Court finds that these allegations sufficiently plead
that Ford had a duty to disclose to Plaintiff because the facts show Ford had
exclusive knowledge of material facts unknown to Plaintiff. 
 
Accordingly, the Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the sixth
cause of action. 
 
D.     Motion to
Strike
 
a.     Legal
Standard
 
“The court
may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: 
 
(a)   Strike
out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. 
(b)   Strike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” 
 
Code Civ.
Proc., § 436.   
 
b.     Punitive
Damages
 
Defendants move to strike the following allegation in the
Complaint: Plaintiff’s prayer ‘[f]or punitive damages’ as set forth on page 17,
subpart g of the Prayer for Relief in the Complaint.
 
“Civil Code section 3294, subdivision (a)
states: ‘In an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from
contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in
addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and
by way of punishing the defendant.’” (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041.)
 
“‘Malice’ means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd.
(c)(1).)
 
“‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct
that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of
that person’s rights.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2).)
 
“‘Fraud’ means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code,
§ 3294, subd. (c)(3).)
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiffs failed to satisfy Civil Code §3294(a) as they alleged
no facts which specifically constitute oppression, fraud, or malice. Moreover,
the Complaint fails to allege facts to support that an officer, director, or
managing agent of Ford was actually involved in any alleged wrongful conduct
that would constitute oppression or malice.
 
As discussed above, the Court found Plaintiffs alleged sufficient
facts to allege fraudulent inducement. However, the Complaint does not allege sufficient
facts for corporate punitive damages liability.
 
As Defendants
argue, “[f]or corporate punitive damages liability, [Civil Code] section 3294,
subdivision (b), requires that the wrongful act giving rise to the exemplary
damages be committed by an ‘officer, director, or managing agent.’” (White
v. Ultramar, Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 563, 572.) “The managing agent
must be someone who exercises substantial discretionary authority over
decisions that ultimately determine corporate policy.  Thus, by selecting
the term ‘managing agent,’ and placing it in the same category as ‘officer’ and
‘director,’ the Legislature intended to limit the class of employees whose
exercise of discretion could result in a corporate employer’s liability for
punitive damages.” (Id. at p. 573.) 
 
Plaintiffs do
not address this argument in their opposition. Thus, Plaintiffs have not cited
(and the Court is unaware of) any law holding that plaintiffs asserting a claim
for fraudulent concealment against a corporation are exempted from the
requirement that, to recover punitive damages, they must allege and prove that
the wrongful act was committed by an officer, director, or managing
agent. In Dhital, the Court of Appeal declined to address Nissan’s
argument (contained in the defendant’s motion to strike filed at the trial
court) that the plaintiffs’ allegations were not sufficient to support
corporate liability for punitive damages because: “The trial court did not
reach that question in striking the … punitive damages allegations, and Nissan
[did] not develop on appeal an argument that [the appellate] court should
affirm the striking of the punitive damages allegations on that alternative
ground ….” (Dhital, supra, 84 Cal.App.5th at p. 845, fn. 8.)
 
Therefore,
the Court finds that Plaintiffs were required to allege facts showing that the
suppression of the Transmission Defect was committed by Defendants’ officer,
director, or managing agent.  
 
The Complaint
is missing those allegations.  
 
Accordingly,
the motion to strike the prayer for punitive damages is GRANTED, with leave to
amend. 
 
DISPOSITION
 

The
Demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
The
Motion to Strike is GRANTED, with 20 days leave to amend.