 Case Number:  24STCV07612    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




matthew arnold

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
brent zacky, d/b/a zacky
   family partnership

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


24STCV07612




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


July
   3, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s special motion to strike
  complaint (anti-slapp)
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Michelangelo Tatone        
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Matthew Arnold
Special Motion to Strike Complaint (Anti-SLAPP)
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion.[1] 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court grants plaintiff
Matthew Arnold’s requests for judicial notice. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subds. (d), (h).)  The court notes that, although it has taken
judicial notice of the existence of these documents, “the truth of the
statements contained in the document[s] and their proper interpretation are
not subject to judicial notice.”  (Tenet
Healthsystem Desert, Inc. v. Blue Cross of California (2016) 245
Cal.App.4th 821, 836 [emphasis in original].) 
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
The court rules on defendant
Michelangelo Tatone’s evidentiary objections, filed on June 24, 2024, as
follows:
Objections Nos. 2 and 5 are
overruled. 
Objections Nos. 1, and 3-4 are
sustained. 
DISCUSSION
Defendant Michelangelo Tatone (“Defendant”) moves the court for an
order striking the eighth cause of action for malicious prosecution, alleged
against Defendant by plaintiff Matthew Arnold (“Plaintiff”) in his Complaint,
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16, also known as the
anti-SLAPP (“strategic lawsuit against public participation”) statute. 
¿“The
anti-SLAPP procedures are designed to shield a defendant’s constitutionally
protected conduct from the undue burden of frivolous litigation.”¿ (Baral
v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 393.)¿ “The anti-SLAPP statute does not
insulate defendants from any liability for claims arising from the protected
rights of petition or speech.¿ It only provides a procedure for weeding out, at
an early stage, meritless claims arising from protected activity.”¿ (Id. at
p. 384.)¿¿“Resolution of an anti-SLAPP motion involves two steps.¿ First, the
defendant must establish that the challenged claim arises from activity
protected by section 425.16.¿ If the defendant makes the required showing, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff to demonstrate the merit of the claim by establishing
a probability of success.”¿ (Ibid. [citation omitted].)¿ The California
Supreme Court has “described this second step as a ‘summary-judgment-like
procedure.’¿ The court does not weigh evidence or resolve conflicting factual
claims.¿ Its inquiry is limited to whether the plaintiff has stated a legally
sufficient claim and made a prima facie factual showing sufficient to sustain a
favorable judgment.¿ It accepts the plaintiff’s evidence as true, and evaluates
the defendant’s showing only to determine if it defeats the plaintiff’s claim
as a matter of law.¿ ‘[C]laims with the requisite minimal merit may proceed.’”¿
(Id. at pp. 384-385 [citations omitted].)¿ 
 
 
1.    
First Prong: Protected Activity
Courts
analyze special motions to strike under a two-step approach.¿ “Initially, the
moving defendant bears the burden of establishing that the challenged
allegations or claims ‘aris[e] from’ protected activity in which the defendant
has engaged.”¿ (Park v. Board of Trustees of California State University (2017)
2 Cal.5th 1057, 1061.)¿ “[T]he statutory phrase ‘cause of action…arising from’
means simply that the defendant’s act underlying the plaintiff’s cause of
action must itself have been an act in furtherance of the right of
petition or free speech.¿ [Citation.]¿ In the anti-SLAPP context, the critical
point is whether the plaintiff’s cause of action itself was based on an
act in furtherance of the defendant’s right of petition or free speech.”¿ (City
of Cotati v. Cashman (2002) 29 Cal.4th 69, 78.)¿ The moving defendant will
meet this burden by demonstrating that the plaintiff’s claim fits one of the
categories outlined in Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16, subdivision
(e).¿ (Ibid.)¿¿ 
The protected acts in furtherance of a defendant’s right of petition
or free speech include:¿ 

Any written or oral statement
     or writing made before a legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding,
     or any other official proceeding authorized by law; or¿ 


Any written or oral statement
     made in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a
     legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding
     authorized by law; or¿ 


Any written or oral statement
     or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum in
     connection with an issue of public interest; or¿¿ 


Any other conduct in
     furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or
     free speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of public
     interest.¿¿ 

(Code
Civ. Proc. § 425.16, subd. (e).)¿¿ 
The court finds, and Plaintiff does not dispute, that the eighth cause
of action for malicious prosecution arises from Defendant’s protected activity
since it arises from Defendant’s (1) making statements before a judicial
proceeding (i.e., preparing and filing the first underlying unlawful detainer
action (Compl., ¶¶ 33, 35, 92)), and (2) making statements in connection with
an issue under consideration or review by a judicial body (Ibid.).  (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (e); Maleti
v. Wickers (2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 181, 200 [“‘[S]ection 425.16 potentially
may apply to every malicious prosecution action, because every such action
arises from an underlying lawsuit, or petition to the judicial branch.  By definition, a malicious prosecution suit
alleges that the defendant committed a tort by filing a lawsuit’”] [internal
citation omitted]; Opp., p. 4:19-20 [“The applicability of a SLAPP motion to
litigation as protected speech is not debated. 
UD 1 was subject to SLAPP scrutiny”].) 
Thus, the court finds that Defendant has met his burden of establishing
that the challenged claim arises from protected activity in which Defendant has
engaged.  (Park, supra, 2
Cal.5th at p. 1061.) 
2.     Second
Prong: Probability of Prevailing on the Merits
The
second prong places the burden on the plaintiff to establish that there is a
probability of prevailing on the challenged claim.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd.
(b)(1).)  To satisfy this burden, the
plaintiff must show that the challenged claim is both legally sufficient and
supported by a prima facie showing of facts to sustain a favorable
judgment.  (Oliveras v. Pineda (2019)
40 Cal.App.5th 343, 353.)  “This is a ‘
“summary-judgment-like procedure.” ’ 
[Citation.]  The pleadings and
evidentiary submissions of both parties are considered [citation], and the
evidence favorable to plaintiffs is accepted as true.  [Citation.] 
Plaintiffs need only establish that their claim has ‘ “minimal merit” ’
to avoid being stricken as a SLAPP.”  (Ibid.
[internal citations omitted].) 
“To
establish a cause of action for malicious prosecution, the malicious
prosecution plaintiff must demonstrate that the prior action was ‘(i) initiated
or maintained by, or at the direction of, the defendant, and pursued to a legal
termination in favor of the malicious prosecution plaintiff; (ii) initiated or
maintained without probable cause; and (iii) initiated or maintained with
malice.’”  (Kinsella v. Kinsella (2020)
45 Cal.App.5th 442, 453, n. 6 [internal italics omitted].)  “If the plaintiff seeks to recovery monetary
relief [on a claim for malicious prosecution], she [or he] ‘must also prove
[(4)] damages.’”  (Gruber v. Gruber (2020)
48 Cal.App.5th 529, 537.)
As
a threshold matter, the court notes that Plaintiff has alleged that Defendant
(and nonmoving defendants Hayden Zacky and Brent Zacky, d/b/a Zacky Family
Partnership) “have continued their malicious conduct in revenge for [Plaintiff]
winning the UD1 by serving a new 3-day notice and filing a new action, Case
#24STUD02832 [‘UD2’], which is still pending.” 
(Compl., ¶ 39.)  However,
Plaintiff does not appear to have based his malicious prosecution cause of
action on the allegedly malicious filing of the second unlawful detainer
action.  Specifically, in support of the
eighth cause of action, Plaintiff has expressly alleged that Defendant is
liable for malicious prosecution because he “continued prosecuting UD 1”
with the intent to harm Plaintiff. 
(Compl., ¶ 92 [emphasis added].)  The
court further notes that Plaintiff does not appear to dispute that this claim
is based solely on the prosecution of the first unlawful detainer action.  (Opp., p. 2:7-8 [Plaintiff’s malicious
prosecution claim “concerns an unlawful detainer action, Case #SMUD01624 (‘UD
1’)”].)  
Thus,
the court finds that Plaintiff must establish a probability of prevailing on
his malicious prosecution claim against Defendant as to Defendant’s initiating
and maintaining the first unlawful detainer action (the “Unlawful Detainer
Action”). 
The
court finds that Plaintiff has not met his burden of demonstrating that his
malicious prosecution claim against Defendant has “at least ‘minimal
merit.’”  (Park, supra, 2
Cal.5th at p. 1061.) 
a.     
Favorable Termination
The
court finds that Plaintiff has met his burden to make a prima facie showing
that Defendant commenced the first unlawful detainer action against Plaintiff,
which was pursued to legal termination in favor of Plaintiff.  (Kinsella, supra, 45
Cal.App.5th at p. 453, n. 6; RJN Ex. 15, Dec. 20, 2023 Minute Order, p. 5
[“Based on the verdict of the jury, the court awards judgment entered as
follows: [¶] Court orders judgment entered for Defendant MATTHEW ARNOLD against
Plaintiff ZACKY FAMILY PARTNERSHIP on the Complaint filed by ZACKY FAMILY
PARTNERSHIP on 10/25/2022 for a total of $0.00”]; RJN Ex. 15, Dec. 20, 2023
Judgment – Unlawful Detainer [Judgment in favor of Plaintiff and against Zacky
Family Partnership].) 
b.    
Lack of Probable Cause
The court finds that Plaintiff has not met his burden to make a prima
facie showing that Defendant initiated or maintained the Unlawful Detainer Action
without probable cause.  (Kinsella, supra, 45 Cal.App.5th at p. 453,
n. 6.) 
“The probable cause element is evaluated ‘objectively’ by asking
‘whether any reasonable attorney would have thought the claim [legally and
factually] tenable.’”  (Gruber, supra,
48 Cal.App.5th at p. 529.)  “A prior
action was not initiated without probable cause merely because it was
ultimately found to lack merit; it was initiated without probable cause only if
‘all reasonable lawyers’ would ‘agree’ that the suit, at the time of
filing, was ‘totally and completely without merit.’”  (Id. at pp. 537-538 [emphasis in
original]; Maleti, supra, 82 Cal.App.5th at p. 218 [probable
cause does not depend on an action being meritorious, “‘but upon it being arguably
tenable, i.e., not so completely lacking in apparent merit that no
reasonable attorney would have thought the claim tenable’”] [emphasis in
original].)  “‘ “A litigant will lack
probable cause for his action either if he relies upon facts which he has no
reasonable cause to believe to be true, or if he seeks recovery upon a legal
theory which is untenable under the facts known to him.”  [Citation.]’” 
(Maleti, supra, 82 Cal.App.5th at p. 218.) 
Plaintiff contends that the Unlawful Detainer Action lacked probable
cause because (1) it was based on Plaintiff’s alleged breach of the lease, and
such allegation directly contradicted the determination of the City of West
Hollywood (the “City”); (2) the lease was not attached to the complaint and
therefore did not satisfy Code of Civil Procedure section 1166; (3) the
Unlawful Detainer Action violated local rent laws; (4) retaliation existed in
violation of Civil Code section 1942.5; and (5) the jury found that no such
breach existed as to the allegation that Plaintiff refused entry to Brent
Zacky.  The court disagrees.
First, the court finds that Plaintiff has not met his burden to make a
prima facie showing that the Unlawful Detainer Action was legally untenable on
the ground that the complaint in that action was based on the allegation that
Plaintiff breached the lease, which contradicts the City’s determination on his
petition for a rent decrease. 
The Complaint in the Unlawful Detainer Action, filed by Defendant as
the attorney for plaintiff Zacky Family Partnership (“Zacky”) on October 25,
2022, alleges that Plaintiff breached the parties’ lease by (1) painting the
balcony walls in violation of the terms of the parties’ lease and without
obtaining prior written consent, (2) installing a window air conditioning unit
without obtaining prior written consent before its installation, and (3) refusing
to allow Zacky access to the property after Zacky posted a 24-hour notice to
enter the premises.  (Arnold Decl., Ex.
3, Unlawful Detainer Compl., Attachment 17, ¶¶ (a) – (d).)  
Three days before the underlying complaint was filed, the City, on
October 22, 2022, issued its decision on Plaintiff’s rent decrease application,
in which the City (1) made a finding that Matt Zacky agreed that Plaintiff
could purchase and install a second air conditioning appliance in the bedroom
at Plaintiff’s expense, and that it would be an internally mounted window unit
to avoid having to cut new holes into the apartment wall; (2) made a finding
that the agreement constituted a housing service provided to Plaintiff that was
eliminated because of the threat of eviction through the service of a 3-day
notice to remove the unit or quit; (3) concluded that “[t]he purchase and
installation of a second air conditioning appliance in the bedroom of Unit 6 by
the tenant [i.e., Plaintiff] at his own expense is a housing service provided
by and agreed to by the landlord to” Plaintiff; (4) concluded that Plaintiff
proved that the removal of the bedroom air conditioning appliance constituted a
substantial reduction in housing services warranting a rent decrease; and (5) stated
that the landlord (i.e., Zacky) “shall allow the tenant [(i.e., Plaintiff)] to
install an air conditioner in the bedroom of Unit #6 by a licensed
contractor.”  (Arnold Decl., Ex. 1, p. 30,
¶¶ 8-9, p. 31, ¶ 6, p. 34, ¶ 2.)  The
City further stated that the Hearing Officer shall maintain jurisdiction over
the matter until full compliance is achieved. 
(Id., p. 35, ¶ 10.)
The court acknowledges, as set forth above, that Plaintiff has
presented evidence establishing that the City, in ruling on Plaintiff’s “Rent
Decrease / Maximum Allowable Rent / Rent Overcharge Petition,” made a finding
that Matt Zacky agreed that Plaintiff could install a second air conditioning
appliance in the bedroom at Plaintiff’s expense, concluded that the
installation of that appliance was a housing service provided by the landlord,
and concluded that the landlord shall allow Plaintiff to install the air
conditioner by a licensed contractor. 
However, Plaintiff has not presented argument or legal authority
establishing that the issuance of the City’s decision on his petition for decreased
rent rendered the Unlawful Detainer Action legally untenable.  Plaintiff did not, for example, argue that
the City’s decision had a preclusive effect, such that its factual findings
precluded a factfinder in the Unlawful Detainer Action from determining that
Plaintiff materially breached the parties’ lease.   
Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff has not met his burden to show
that his allegation that the Unlawful Detainer Action lacked probable cause has
minimal merit since he did not make a prima facie showing that the City’s
ruling on his rent decrease petition establishes that the Unlawful Detainer
Action was based on (1) facts upon which Defendant had no reasonable cause to
believe are true, or (2) a legal theory that is untenable under the facts known
to Defendant.  (Maleti, supra,
82 Cal.App.5th at p. 218.) 
Second, the court finds that Plaintiff has not met his burden to make
a prima facie showing that the Unlawful Detainer Action was untenable on the
ground that the complaint did not attach a copy of the lease pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 1166. 
In an unlawful detainer action, a complaint shall attach “[a] copy of
any written lease or rental agreement regarding the premises[,]” including any
addenda or attachments to the lease or written agreement forming the basis of
the complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1166,
subd. (d)(1)(B).)  Such documents are not
required to be attached if they are “not in the possession of the landlord or
any agent or employee of the landlord.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1166, subd. (b)(1)(B)(ii).)  Plaintiff has shown that the parties’ lease
was not attached to the underlying complaint based on Zacky’s assertion that
“the written agreement is not in the possession of the landlord or the
landlord’s employees or agents.”  (Arnold
Decl., Ex. 3,¶ 6, subd. (f)(1) [emphasis in original omitted].)  Plaintiff, however, did not cite evidence
establishing that this assertion is false.  (Opp., p. 7:8-14.)  Moreover, even if Plaintiff had presented
evidence establishing that the assertion was false and that Zacky had
possession of the lease agreement, Plaintiff has not presented argument or
authority showing that the failure to attach the lease rendered the Unlawful
Detainer Action untenable (i.e., that Defendant had no reasonable cause to
believe the facts supporting the claim to be true or that the legal theory was
untenable).  (Maleti, supra,
82 Cal.App.5th at p. 218.) 
Third, the court finds that Plaintiff has not met his burden to make a
prima facie showing that the Unlawful Detainer Action was untenable on the
ground that the Unlawful Detainer Action violated West Hollywood Rent
Stabilization Ordinance section 17.52.030. 
Pursuant to West Hollywood Rent Stabilization Ordinance section
17.52.030, “[a] landlord shall not endeavor to recover possession of a rental
unit unless at least one of the grounds enumerated in Section 17.52.010 is the
landlord’s dominant motive for recovering possession.”  Plaintiff has not shown that the Unlawful
Detainer Action was initiated or maintained in violation of that
ordinance.  For example, although
Plaintiff contends that the presence of an air conditioner unit was not a
material breach of the lease, Plaintiff did not (1) cite evidence or argument
in support of that assertion, or (2) present evidence or argument establishing
that, even if the jury concluded that installation of the air conditioner unit
was not a material breach of the lease, no reasonable attorney would have
thought the claim to be factually and legally tenable.  (Opp., p. 7:15-22; Gruber, supra,
48 Cal.App.5th at p. 537.)
Fourth, the court finds that Plaintiff has not met his burden to make
a prima facie showing that the Unlawful Detainer Action was untenable on the
ground that Defendant engaged in retaliation against Plaintiff pursuant to
Civil Code section 1942.5.
“If the lessor retaliates against the lessee because of the exercise
by the lessee of the lessee’s rights under this chapter or because of the
lessee’s complaint to an appropriate agency as to tenantability of a dwelling,
and if the lessee of a dwelling is not in default as to the payment of rent,
the lessor may not recover possession of a dwelling in any action or
proceeding, cause the lessee to quit involuntarily, increase the rent, or
decrease any services within 180 days of” five statutorily defined circumstances,
including after the date upon which the lessee, in good faith, has filed a
written complaint with an appropriate agency for the purpose of obtaining
correction of a condition relating to tenantability.  (Civ. Code, § 1942.5, subd. (a)(2).) 
Plaintiff has presented evidence establishing that (1) on June 23,
2022, Plaintiff petitioned the City to grant a rent reduction on the ground
that there had been a substantial reduction in housing services and required
maintenance had not been performed, and (2) 124 days later, on October 25,
2022, Defendant, as the attorney for plaintiff Zacky, filed the Complaint in
the Unlawful Detainer Action.  (Arnold
Decl., p. 12:17-19; Arnold Decl., Ex. 1, Hearing Examiner’s Dec., p. 1 [describing
allegations of Plaintiff’s petition]; Arnold Decl., Ex. 3, Unlawful Detainer
Action Complaint.)  Thus, this evidence
may establish retaliation on the part of landlord-plaintiff Zacky.  However, Plaintiff did not establish that Defendant
knew of this information or that the possibility that Plaintiff could assert
this defense shows that the the Unlawful Detainer Action was initiated or
maintained without probable cause. 
As set forth above, “[t]he probable cause element is evaluated
‘objectively’ by asking ‘whether any reasonable attorney would have thought the
claim [legally and factually] tenable.’” 
(Gruber, supra, 48 Cal.App.5th at p. 537.)  “This objective assessment is necessarily
made using ‘the facts known to the defendant’ ‘at the time the suit was
filed.’”  (Id. at p. 538 [emphasis
added].)  Here, Plaintiff did not cite
evidence showing that Defendant knew of the facts supporting this defense, such
that Plaintiff has not submitted any evidence to show that Defendant would have
thought, based on the facts known to him, that the claim was not legally and
factually tenable.  (Id. at p.
537.)  
Fifth, the court finds that Plaintiff has not met his burden to make a
prima facie showing that the Unlawful Detainer Action was untenable on the
ground that the jury did not find that Plaintiff breached the lease by refusing
entry to Brent Zacky.  Plaintiff did not
cite evidence establishing that, based on the facts known to Defendant at the
time the Unlawful Detainer Action was initiated and maintained, any reasonable attorney
would have thought the claim was legally and factually untenable.  (Gruber, supra, 48 Cal.App.5th
at pp. 537-538.)  Further, as set forth
above, “probable cause to bring an action does not depend upon it being
meritorious . . . .”  (Maleti, supra,
82 Cal.App.5th at p. 218 [internal quotations and citations omitted].) 
Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff has not met his burden to make a
prima facie showing establishing that his allegations that Defendant initiated
or maintained the Unlawful Detainer Action without probable cause have minimal
merit.  (Park, supra, 2
Cal.5th at p. 1061.) 
 
c.     
Malice
The court finds that Plaintiff has not met his burden to make a prima
facie showing that Defendant initiated or maintained the Unlawful Detainer
Action with malice.  (Kinsella, supra, 45 Cal.App.5th at p. 453,
n. 6.) 
“The malice element looks to the ‘subjective intent or purpose with
which the defendant acted in initiating the prior action’ [citation], and is
therefore a ‘question of fact’ [citation]. 
A party acts with ‘malice’ when it files suit due to ‘ “ill will or some
improper ulterior motive.” ’ 
[Citations.]  Malice requires more
than proof that the party acted without probable cause.”  (Gruber, supra, 48 Cal.App.5th
at p. 538.)  However, “‘[s]ince parties
rarely admit an improper motive, malice is usually proven by circumstantial
evidence and inferences drawn from the evidence.  [Citation.]’” 
(Maleti, supra, 82 Cal.App.5th at p. 223.)  
As a threshold matter, the court has found, for the reasons set forth
above, that Plaintiff has not met his burden of showing that his allegation
that Defendant initiated or maintained the Unlawful Detainer Action without
probable cause has minimal merit.  Thus,
the court finds that it cannot infer malice from the facts establishing lack of
probable cause.  (Maleti, supra,
82 Cal.App.5th at p. 223 [stating that “[t]he absence of probable cause alone
does not establish malice” but acknowledging that “[m]alice may be . . .
inferred from the facts establishing lack of probable cause”] [internal
quotations and citations omitted].) 
First, the court finds that Plaintiff has not met his burden to make a
prima facie showing that Defendant initiated and maintained the Unlawful
Detainer Action with malice on the ground that Defendant knew of certain
facts.  Although Plaintiff has asserted,
in his opposition papers, that Defendant had knowledge of seven facts and still
filed the Unlawful Detainer Action, Plaintiff did not cite evidence in support
of those assertions.  (Opp., pp.
9:14-10:9.) 
Second, the court finds that Plaintiff has not met his burden to make
a prima facie showing that Defendant initiated and maintained the Unlawful
Detainer Action with malice on the ground that Defendant “filed a motion asking
the court to revoke [Plaintiff’s] right to a jury trial . . . .”  (Opp., pp. 10:13-18 [argument], 4:8-9
[stating that Defendant attempted to defraud the court into denying Plaintiff
his right to jury trial].)  
Plaintiff has submitted the motion for bench trial, filed by Defendant
on behalf of plaintiff Zacky in the Unlawful Detainer Action, in which Zacky
moved the court for an order setting a bench trial on the ground that Plaintiff
waived his right to a jury trial by failing to pay the jury fee.[2]  (Arnold Decl., Ex. 4.)  Plaintiff has not, however, presented argument
or authority establishing that Zacky’s filing of this motion supports an
inference of ill will or improper ulterior motives on the part of Defendant.  (Maleti, supra, 82 Cal.App.5th
at p. 222.)   
Third, the court finds that Plaintiff has not met his burden to make a
prima facie showing that Defendant initiated and maintained the Unlawful
Detainer Action with malice based on Defendant’s conduct in engaging in
discovery in the underlying case. 
Plaintiff asserts that Defendant (1) hid communications from Hayden
Zacky based upon the attorney-client privilege, and the unredacted messages
show that the redacted messages concerned Plaintiff, and (2) attempted to quash
the subpoena of Zacky’s partner Hayden Zacky, but the court denied the motion
to quash.  However, Plaintiff has not
presented authority or evidence establishing that this conduct—which shows only
that Defendant filed typical discovery motions and asserted the attorney-client
privilege—supports an inference of ill will or an improper ulterior motive on
the part of Defendant.  (Maleti, supra,
82 Cal.App.5th at p. 222.)     
Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff has not met his burden to make a
prima facie showing establishing that his allegations that the Unlawful
Detainer Action was initiated or maintained with malice have minimal
merit.  (Park, supra, 2
Cal.5th at p. 1061.) 
3.    
The
Court Grants Defendant’s Special Motion to Strike 
Based on the findings set
forth above, the court finds that (1) Defendant has met his burden to show that
Plaintiff’s claim for malicious prosecution arises from Defendant’s protected
activity, and (2) Plaintiff has not met his burden to show that his claim has
minimal merit.  (Park, supra,
2 Cal.5th at p. 1061.)  The court
therefore grants Defendant’s special motion to strike and orders that
Plaintiff’s eighth cause of action for malicious prosecution is stricken.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b)(1); Divine
Food & Catering, LLC v. Western Diocese of the Armenian Church of North
America (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 1048, 1068 [if (1) the defendant meets its
burden, and (2) the plaintiff does not meet his burden, “the court will strike
the claim”] [internal quotations and citations omitted].) 
4.    
Defendant’s
Request for Attorney’s Fees
Defendant requests that the
court award him $7,261.65 in attorney’s fees and costs.  The court grants that request. 
“[A] prevailing defendant on a
special motion to strike shall be entitled to recover that defendant’s
attorney’s fees and costs.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 425.16, subd. (c)(1); RGC Gaslamp, LLC v. Ehmcke Sheet Metal Co.,
Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 413, 447 [“A defendant that prevails on an
anti-SLAPP motion to strike is generally entitled to recover attorney’s fees
and costs”].)  “It is well established
that ‘[t]he amount of an attorney fee award under the anti-SLAPP statute is
computed by the trial court in accordance with the familiar “lodestar”
method.  [Citation.]  Under that method, the court “tabulates the
attorney fee touchstone, or lodestar, by multiplying the number of hours
reasonably expended by the reasonably hourly rate prevailing in the community
for similar work.  [Citations.]” ’”  (569 East County Boulevard LLC v.
Backcountry Against the Dump, Inc. (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 426, 432.)  
Because the court has granted
Defendant’s special motion to strike Plaintiff’s claim for malicious
prosecution, the court finds that Defendant is entitled to recover attorney’s
fees and costs from Plaintiff.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 425.16, subd. (c)(1).) 
Defendant has shown that (1) the reasonably hourly rate for Defendant’s
counsel is $450, and (2) Defendant’s counsel reasonably expended 16 hours to
prepare this motion, review the opposition papers, prepare the reply papers,
and attend the hearing on this motion. 
(Ding Decl., ¶¶ 2-4.)  Thus, the
court finds that Defendant has established a lodestar amount of $7,200.  (Ibid.)  The court further finds that Defendant has
shown that he incurred costs in the amount of $61.65.  (Ding Decl., ¶ 6 [the filing fee amounted to
$61.65].) 
The court therefore finds that
Defendant is entitled to recover from Plaintiff $7,261.65 in attorney’s fees
and costs.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16,
subd. (c)(1).)  
The court denies Plaintiff’s
request for attorney’s fees and costs because he is not a prevailing plaintiff
on a frivolous special motion to strike. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (c)(1).) 
ORDER
            The court grants defendant Michelangelo
Tatone’s special motion to strike plaintiff Matthew Arnold’s eighth cause of
action for malicious prosecution.  
            The
court orders that plaintiff Matthew Arnold’s eighth cause of action for
malicious prosecution, as alleged against defendant Michelangelo Tatone, is
stricken.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b)(1).)
            The court orders that defendant
Michelangelo Tatone shall recover a total of $7,261.65 in attorney’s fees and
costs from plaintiff Matthew Arnold pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
425.16, subdivision (c)(1).
            The court orders defendant Michelangelo
Tatone to prepare, serve, and lodge a proposed judgment of dismissal within 10
days from the date of this order. 
            The court orders defendant
Michelangelo Tatone to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  July 3, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


