  Case Number:  24TRCV03280    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2025    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
DAVE
  MARTIN, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.: 24TRCV03280
 


 
 




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
ROBERT
  SHEIPF, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          January 10, 2025
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendants Robert Sheipe and Patricia Shiepe  
Responding
Party:                  None
Demurrer
to Complaint and Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint 
            The court considered the moving
papers. No opposition papers were filed. 
RULING
            The demurrer
is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND as to the Fourth Cause of Action for fraud and
Sixth Cause of Action for intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
            The
motion to strike is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
BACKGROUND
On September 30, 2024, plaintiff Dave
Martin filed a complaint against defendants Robert Sheipf, Patricia Sheipf, and
Does 1-100, alleging causes of action for (1) violation of Civ. Code § 1940.2,
(2) breach of implied warranty of habitability, (3) negligence, (4) fraud, (5)
negligent infliction of emotional distress, and (6) intentional infliction of
emotional distress.
Defendants Robert Shiepe
(erroneously sued as Robert Sheipf) and Patricia Shiepe (erroneously sued as
Patricia Sheipf) demur to the Fourth and Sixth Causes of Action in the
complaint. Defendants also move to strike punitive damages allegations from the
complaint, as well as move to strike plaintiff’s claim for attorney’s fees.
As of January 7, 2025, both the
demurrer and motion to strike are unopposed. Any opposition was required to
have been filed and served at least nine court days prior to the hearing. CCP §
1005(b). The court informs plaintiff that “[a] failure to oppose a motion may
be deemed a consent to the granting of the motion. Cal. R. Ct., rule 8.54(c).
LEGAL AUTHORITY
A party may demur to a complaint on the grounds
that it “does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” CCP§
430.10(e). A demurrer tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747. 
When considering demurrers, courts accept all well
pleaded facts as true. Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th
1068, 1078. “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905. “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states
a cause of action.” Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747. On
demurrer, a court does “not accept contentions, deductions or conclusions of
fact or law.” Simonyan
v. Nationwide Insurance Company of America (2022)
78 Cal.App.5th 889, 895. 
Although courts construe pleadings liberally,
sufficient facts must be alleged to support the allegations pled to survive a
demurrer. Rakestraw v. California Physicians' Serv. (2000) 81
Cal.App.4th 39, 43. Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be
allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.
The burden is on the party who filed the pleading subject to demurrer to show
the court that a pleading can be amended successfully. Ibid.
“Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a
pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part
thereof.” CCP § 435 (b)(1). A court may “[s]trike out any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading.” CCP§ 436(a). A court may “[s]trike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” CCP § 436(b).   
DISCUSSION
Defendants
demur to the Fourth and Sixth Causes of Action in the complaint on the grounds
that such causes of action fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action. Defendants request that their demurrer be sustained without leave to
amend. Defendants also seek an order striking punitive damages allegations, as
well as plaintiff’s claim for attorneys’ fees, from the complaint. 
The Meet
and Confer Requirement 
Before filing
a demurrer or motion to strike, the moving party must meet and confer in
person, by video conference, or by telephone with the party who filed the
pleading to attempt to reach an agreement that would resolve the objections to
the pleading. CCP §§ 430.41(a), 435.5. “Any determination by the court that the
meet and confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to overrule or
sustain a demurrer” or to grant or deny a motion to strike. CCP §§
430.41(a)(4), 435.5.
The meet
and confer requirement has not been satisfied as counsel for defendants only
attests to sending a meet and confer e-mail and a meet and confer letter to plaintiff’s
counsel. Block Decls., ¶ 2. The court, however, will still consider the
demurrer and motion to strike on the merits. The court reminds the parties of
the need to comply with the requirements of the CCP. 
Pertinent
Allegations of the Complaint
Plaintiff
alleges that he was a tenant at a property located at 7832 Veragua Drive, Playa
Del Rey, California (the “Subject Property”). Compl., ¶¶ 1, 9. Plaintiff was
assigned a spare guest room by defendants. Compl., ¶ 9. Defendants charged
plaintiff rent consisting of a fixed amount which varied from time to time and
hired plaintiff to work on the Subject Property which related to various tasks
including upkeep and repair of the Subject Property. Compl., ¶ 10. The
complaint alleges that defendants, despite knowledge of plaintiff’s outside
work schedule, kept increasing plaintiff’s workload to the point that it was
physically impossible for plaintiff to work to sustain his modest lifestyle and
do the myriad of ever increasing time consuming tasks assigned to him by
defendants. Compl., ¶ 13. 
Plaintiff
alleges that defendants also assigned tasks that were often dangerous and to
which plaintiff lacked the skills, expertise, and in some cases, the license,
required to complete the task. Compl., ¶ 14. Plaintiff allegedly suffered a
number of serious injuries trying to perform the tasks assigned to him by
defendants including falling off a ladder. Compl., ¶ 14. Due to the combination
of mold damage and unreasonable dangerous work demands made on plaintiff by
defendants, plaintiff was forced to vacate the Subject Property and incur
moving expenses. Compl., ¶ 14. Defendants badgered, threatened, and humiliated
plaintiff when plaintiff did not complete the tasks or did not complete such
tasks to liking of defendants. Compl., ¶ 15. Plaintiff alleges that he
“suffered severe emotional distress during the term of the subject tenancy and
with near nightly nightmares based on [d]efendants’ unreasonable work demands
and their constant and incessant harassment of [p]laintiff.” Compl., ¶ 16. 
Plaintiff’s
Fourth Cause of Action for Fraud is Insufficiently Alleged
“The elements of fraud are (a) a misrepresentation
(false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) scienter or
knowledge of its falsity; (c) intent to induce reliance; (d) justifiable
reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” Hinesley
v. Oakshade Town Ctr. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294. The facts
constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to
every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the
pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645. 
The court
finds that plaintiff’s Fourth Cause of Action for fraud is insufficiently
alleged. Compl., ¶¶ 40-46. Plaintiff has specifically failed to allege that
defendants misrepresented that the Subject Property was a safe and habitable
unit. Compl., ¶ 41. Moreover, the court finds that the Fourth Cause of Action
for fraud is much too conclusory. The complaint does not allege how, when, or
by what means the purported misrepresentations of defendants were tendered.
Compl., ¶¶ 40-46. 
The court
therefore SUSTAINS the demurrer of defendants to the Fourth Cause of Action for
fraud with leave to amend as the court does not find that there exists no
reasonable possibility of successful amendment. 
Plaintiff’s
Sixth Cause of Action for IIED is Insufficiently Alleged 
“The
elements of a prima facie case for the tort of intentional infliction of
emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant
with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of
causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme
emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional
distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct. Conduct to be outrageous must
be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
community.” Wilson v. Hynek (2012)
207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009, citation and ellipses omitted.
The court
finds that the allegations of the Sixth Cause of Action for IIED are
insufficient. Compl., ¶¶ 55-61. The court does not find that the failure to
remedy issues and alleged unspecified verbal abuse constitutes extreme and
outrageous conduct. Compl., ¶ 57. Moreover, the purported demands of plaintiff
that he perform unreasonable and dangerous work is not extreme and outrageous
conduct. Compl., ¶ 58. Critically, plaintiff has failed to allege the elements
of actual and proximate causation to support a cause of action for IIED.
Compl., ¶¶ 55-61.
The court
SUSTAINS the demurrer of defendants to the Sixth Cause of Action for
intentional infliction of emotional distress with leave to amend as the court
does not find that there exists no reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. 
Motion to
Strike 
Applicable
Law 
“In order
to survive a motion to strike an allegation of punitive damages, the ultimate
facts showing an entitlement to such relief must be pled by a plaintiff.” Clauson
v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255. Civ. Code § 3294
authorizes punitive damages upon a showing of malice, fraud, or oppression.
Malice is defined as either “conduct which is intended by the defendant to
cause injury to the plaintiff,” or “despicable conduct which is carried on by
the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.” Civ. Code § 3294 (c)(1). “Despicable conduct is conduct which is so
vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be
looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.” Mock v. Michigan
Millers Mutual Ins. Co. (1992) 4 Cal. App. 4th 306, 331. Fraud under Civ.
Code § 3294(c)(3) “means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or
concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the
part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights
or otherwise causing injury.” Civ. Code § 3294(c)(2) defines oppression as
“despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” Specific facts must be alleged in
support of punitive damages. Hillard v. A.H. Robins Co. (1983) 148
Cal.App.3d 374, 391-392. Facts must be pled to show that a defendant “act[ed]
with the intent to vex, injure or annoy, or with a conscious disregard of the
plaintiff’s rights.” Silberg v. California Life Ins. Co. (1974) 11
Cal.3d 452, 462. Conduct that is merely negligent will not support a claim for
punitive damages. Tomaselli v. Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25
Cal.App.4th 1269, 1288.
As to
attorneys’ fees, such fees are only authorized by contract, statute, or law.
CCP § 1033.5(a)(10).
Analysis 
The court
references its recital of the allegations of the complaint from above. The court
finds that the complaint does not set forth sufficient facts to show
entitlement to punitive damages. Plaintiff has not alleged specific facts
showing fraud, oppression, or malice.
As to
attorneys’ fees, the complaint fails to articulate a basis in statute,
contract, or law for the recovery of attorneys’ fees.
The court
therefore GRANTS the motion to strike with leave to amend. 
ORDER
The
demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND as to the 4th cause of
action for fraud and 6th cause of action for intentional infliction
of emotional distress. 
The
motion to strike is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.  
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of ruling.