  Case Number:  20STCV24733    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  31 TENTATIVE
 
Defendants/Cross-Complainants
Rachel D. Son and Dennis H. Son’s unopposed
motion for attorney fees is GRANTED.
 
Legal
Standard
 
In any action on a contract, where the contract
specifically provides that attorney's fees and costs, which are incurred to
enforce that contract, shall be awarded either to one of the parties or to the
prevailing party, then the party who is determined to be the party prevailing
on the contract, whether he or she is the party specified in the contract or
not, shall be entitled to reasonable attorney’s fees in addition to other
costs. (Civ. Code, §
1717, subd. (a).)  
 
For purposes of section 1717, “[t]he party
prevailing on the contract shall be the party who recovered a greater relief in
the action on the contract.”  (Civ. Code, § 1717, subd. (b).) 
Attorney fees awarded under Civil Code, section 1717 are allowable costs under
Civil Code, section 1032 and Code of Civil Procedure, section 1033.5,
subdivision (a)(10)(A).  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subd.
(c)(5)(B).)   
 
A prevailing party is
entitled to recover costs, including attorneys’ fees, as a matter of right,
except as otherwise expressly provided by statute. (See Code Civ. Proc., §§
1032(a)(4), 1032(b), 1033.5.) A prevailing party is “the party with a net
monetary recovery, a defendant in whose favor a dismissal is entered, a
defendant where neither plaintiff nor defendant obtains any relief, and a
defendant as against those plaintiffs who do not recover any relief against
that defendant.” (Id., § 1032(a)(4).) 
 
“The
trial court has ‘broad authority’ to determine the amount of a reasonable
attorneys’ fees.  (PLCM Group v. Drexler (2000) 22 Cal.4th 1084,
1095.) “The experienced trial judge is the best judge of the value of
professional services rendered in [her] court.” (Ibid.) The
party that is seeking attorney's fees as a prevailing party must present
evidence of the time spent and the hourly rate of each attorney. (Copenbarger
v. Morris Cerullo World Evangelism, Inc. (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 1, 14.) The fee setting inquiry in California
ordinarily begins with the “lodestar” method, i.e., the number of hours
reasonably expended multiplied by the reasonable hourly rate. A computation of
time spent on a case and the reasonable value of that time is fundamental to a
determination of an appropriate attorneys’ fee award. The lodestar figure may
then be adjusted, based on consideration of factors specific to the case, in
order to fix the fee at the fair market value for the legal services
provided.  (Serrano v. Priest (1977) 20 Cal.3d 25, 49.)  
 
Discussion
Cross-Complainants Rachel D. Son and
Dennis H. Son move for attorney fees in the amount of $1,000 against Cross-Defendants Eva Salinas Luna and Bartolo Millan, arguing that
Cross-Complainants are the prevailing party and are entitled to attorney fees
under their contract with Cross-Defendants.
The right to attorney fees is provided for in Paragraph 40 of the
subject lease. (Keavney Decl., Exh. 1.) It states in relevant part: 
"In any action or proceeding arising out of this Agreement, the
prevailing party between Landlord and Tenant shall be entitled to reasonable
attorneys’ fees and costs, collectively not to exceed $1,000 ..." 
The Court finds that Cross-Complainants are the prevailing party as
they recovered a monetary amount and dismissal was entered in their favor.
Further, the contract provides for attorney fees to the prevailing party. Thus,
Cross-Complainants are entitled to attorney fees.
Richard P. Keavney, an attorney with 40 years' experience, states that
the matter was fairly simple given Plaintiffs' lack of participation. (Keaveny
Decl., ¶ 2.) Mr. Keavney's hourly rate of $250, which he states is lower than
any other comparable attorney. (Id., ¶
4.) Keavney spent 26.5 hours on the matter. (Id.) Defendants request
the maximum allowable amount of $1,000, for four hours of work. 
The Court finds the hourly rate and the hours expended reasonable.
Thus, the motion is granted. In sum, the Court awards attorney fees in favor of
Cross-Complainants and against Cross-Defendants Eva Salinas Luna and Bartolo
Millan in the amount of $1,000.
Conclusion
Based on the
foregoing, the unopposed motion for attorney fees is GRANTED.
 
Moving party is
ordered to give notice.