 Case Number:  22STCV17243    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  31 TENTATIVE 
 
Defendant’s motion to enforce the settlement
agreement is CONTINUED to the Court's first available date for hearing, January 23, 2024 at 9:00 a.m.
 
Legal
Standard
Code
of Civil Procedure section 664.6 provides: 
“(a) [i]f parties to pending litigation stipulate, in a
writing signed by the parties outside the presence of the court or orally
before the court, for settlement of the case, or part thereof, the court, upon
motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement. If
requested by the parties, the court may retain jurisdiction over the parties to
enforce the settlement until performance in full of the terms of the
settlement. 
(b) For purposes of this section, a
writing is signed by a party if it is signed by any of the following:
(1) The party.
(2) An attorney who represents the party.
(3) If the party is an insurer, an agent who is authorized in writing by the
insurer to sign on the insurer's behalf.” 
Strict compliance
with the statutory requirements is necessary before a court can enforce a
settlement agreement under this statute.  (Sully-Miller Contracting Co.
v. Gledson/Cashman Construction, Inc. (2002) 103 Cal.App.4th 30, 37.) 
Before an amendment was effective on January 1, 2021, “parties”
under section 664.6 meant the litigants themselves, not their attorneys. 
(See Levy v. Superior Court (1995) 10 Cal.4th 578, 586.)  The
settlement had to include the signatures of the parties seeking to enforce the
agreement and against whom enforcement is sought.  (J.B.B. Investment
Partners, Ltd. v. Fair (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 974, 985.) 
 
The existence of a contract “requires parties capable of
contracting, their consent, a lawful object, and a sufficient cause of
consideration.”  (J.B.B. Investment Partners Ltd. v. Fair (2019) 37
Cal.App.5th 1, 9 [citing Civ. Code, §
1550].)  Consent requires an offer and acceptance.  (DeLeon
v. Verizon Wireless, LLC (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 800, 813.)  The
inclusion of a different term in an alleged acceptance constitutes a
counteroffer.  (See Bias v. Wright (2002) 103 Cal.App.4th 811,
820.)  A counteroffer extinguishes the original offer.  (Civ. Code, §
1585; Landberg v. Landberg (1972) 24 Cal.App.3d 742, 751.) 
  
If the settlement leaves material terms wanting, or confusing, the
settlement cannot be enforced through the section 664.6 summary proceeding and
must be addressed in a separate civil action.  (Compare Terry v. Conlan
(2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 1445 [finding parties never agreed to the means that
were material to the settlement, including what role an independent manager was
to play regarding management of a trust property, and whether the trust should
be qualified as a QTIP, thereby indicating that there was no meeting of the
minds as to the material terms] with Osumi v. Sutton (2007) 151
Cal.App.4th 1355 [holding trial court’s decision to extend closing date for
vendor’s agreement to repurchase house did not create a material term and was
within court’s power because the closing date had passed by the time the
motions came on for hearing and a new closing date was necessary to grant the
relief sought by both parties].) 
 
Discussion 
 
Defendant moves to
enforce a settlement between Plaintiff and Defendant. Defendant contends that
Defendants and Plaintiff attended a mediation and reached an agreement. That
settlement agreement was shuttled back and forth between the parties and their
counsel; it was drafted, edited, redlined, re-edited and re-edited again, by
all counsel, and, eventually, well into the evening the final version of
the settlement agreement, agreeable to all, was executed by all the parties.
Defendant asks this Court to find that the settlement agreement is enforceable.
 
Defendants
have not submitted the agreement at issue. It appears the parties stated they
would present the agreement to the Court on the day of the hearing. However,
after review of the moving papers and opposition, the Court finds that the
agreement must be submitted in order to make a proper determination as to
whether the agreement was enforceable under Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6. Most importantly, the Court
must see whether the agreement was signed by both parties. Further, the parties
dispute whether the documents to be executed after the fact would constitute a
counteroffer. Moreover, Plaintiff disputes whether the document is a settlement
agreement, and argues it is a settlement term sheet, and that it is titled as
such; Defendant argues those words to that effect do not appear at all.
Plaintiff contends the parties to be bound are not identified in the settlement
agreement, which may leave terms wanting. All of these issues need to be
reviewed by the Court, but it cannot do that without the purported settlement
agreement filed. 
 
Similarly,
Plaintiff argues the Settlement Agreement is inadmissible under Evidence Code §
1119. However, Evidence Code §1123 provides a “written settlement agreement
prepared in the course of, or pursuant to, a mediation, is not made inadmissible,
or protected from disclosure…if the agreement is signed by the settling parties
and any of the following conditions are satisfied…(b) The agreement provides
that it is enforceable or binding or words to that effect.” The Court cannot
make these determinations without reviewing the agreement.
 
As
such, the court needs to review the settlement agreement prior to the hearing
to make a reasoned determination as to all of these arguments. It is not
enough to present the agreement at the hearing; the Court cannot make a
reasoned determination on the spot at the hearing. 
 
Conclusion 
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion to
enforce the settlement agreement is CONTINUED to allow Defendants to file the
agreement.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice. 
 
 