 Case Number:  21PSCV00253    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
DEFENDANT
TROY-CSL LIGHTING, INC.’S MOTION TO RE-OPEN DISCOVERY AND CONFIRM EXPERT
WITNESS DISCLOSURE PROCESS is GRANTED IN PART. GRANTED Re:
permitting the deposition of Jamiee Castillo.
TBD Re: conducting expert discovery (unclear
whether expert discovery is necessary in this case).[1]
 
Background
 
This is a
wrongful termination case. Plaintiff Raymond Hernandez (“Plaintiff”) alleges
the following against Defendant TROY-CSL Lighting, Inc. (“Defendant” or “Troy”):
Plaintiff was hired by Defendant in 2012. Plaintiff was terminated for
violating Defendant’s sexual harassment policy, which was an excuse to
terminate Plaintiff for making various complaints to Human Resources (HR) about
workplace harassment. 
 
On March 25,
2021, Plaintiff filed suit for: 1.     Wrongful Termination in Violation of
Public Policy 2.     Breach Of Contract and Covenant of
Good Faith and Fair Dealing 3.     Retaliation In Violation of Labor Code
§§ 98.6 & 1102.5
 
On July 26,
2022, Defendant filed an MSJ. The hearing was on 6/20/23, after which the court
took the MSJ under submission. 
 
On June 21,
2023, the court issued its final ruling denying the motion. In its minute
order, the court provided as follows: 
 
The matter set on October 19, 2023, at
the Pomona Courthouse in Department G at 10:30 a.m. for a Mandatory Settlement
Conference, the matter set on December 5, 2023, at the Pomona Courthouse in
Department O at 10:00 a.m. for a Final Status Conference, and the matter set on
January 9, 2024, at the Pomona Courthouse in Department O at 1:30 p.m. for Jury
Trial, are to remain as previously set.
 
On September
25, 2023, Defendant filed the instant motion.
 
On October
17, 2023, Defendant filed an ex-parte application seeking an order
specially setting the hearing date for Defendant’s Motion specifically seeking
to have the filed Motion, presently scheduled to be heard on December 13, 2023,
to November 10, 2023.
 
On October 19, 2023, the court continued the ex parte
hearing to 11/14.
 
On November 14, 2023, the court continued the hearing to
11/29.
 
On November 29, 2023, Plaintiff filed its opposition to the
motion. That same day, the court, in its minute order, indicating “a Ruling on
said matter will not be made this date as the Court will wait to consider the
merits in the Formal Motion.”
 
On December 6, 2023, Defendant filed its reply.
 
Legal
Standard
 
Except as
otherwise provided, “any party shall be entitled as a matter of right to
complete discovery proceedings on or before the 30th day, and to have motions
concerning discovery heard on or before the 15th day, before the date initially
set for trial of the action.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2024.020(a).)  “[A] continuance
or postponement of the trial date does not operate to reopen discovery
proceedings” unless a motion to reopen discovery is filed and granted pursuant
to CCP section 2024.050.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2024.020(b); Pelton-Shepherd
Industries, Inc. v. Delta Packaging Products, Inc. (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th
1568.)  CCP section 2024.050 provides
that “[o]n motion of any party, the court may grant leave to complete discovery
proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard, closer to the
initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date has been
set.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050(a).)
 
“The purpose
of imposing a time limit on discovery is to expedite and facilitate trial
preparation and to prevent delay.  Without a cutoff date, the parties
could tie up each other and the trial court in discovery and discovery disputes
right up to the eve of trial or beyond. Furthermore, . . . to be effective the
cutoff date must be firm or some litigants will manipulate the proceedings to
avoid the cut-off date.”  (Beverly Hosp. v. Superior Court (1993)
19 Cal.App.4th 1289, 1295.)  The
reopening of discovery is a matter that is committed to the trial court’s sound
discretion.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050(a), (b).)  In exercising
that discretion, the trial court considers “any matter relevant to the leave
requested,” including: 
 
(1)   The necessity and the reasons for the
discovery. 
 
(2) The diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the
discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the
discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was not heard
earlier. 
 
(3) Any likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the
discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or
otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any
other party. 
 
(4) The length of time that has elapsed between any date previously set,
and the date presently set, for the trial of the action. 
 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2024.050(b)) (emphasis added). 
 
A motion to
reopen discovery pursuant to CCP section 2024.050 must be accompanied by a meet
and confer declaration demonstrating a good faith effort at informal
resolution. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050(a).)
 
Discussion
 
Defendants
seeks to open discovery for two limited purposes: (1) permitting the
deposition of Jamiee Castillo and (2) conducting expert discovery. Defense
Counsel believed that the pre-trial dates, including the discovery cutoff, were
continued commensurate with the new January 2024 trial date. Defense Counsel only
learned of the July 31, 2023 cut-off when Defendant served the subpoena and
notice of deposition for Jamiee Castillo on August 28, 2023. (See Declaration
of Theodore E. Bacon (“Bacon Decl.”), ¶6.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff’s main contention is that Defense
Counsel’s mistaken belief is not reasonable such that it amounts to a dilatory
tactic, notably in light of the well-settled authority that pre-trial dates are
not extended with a continuance of trail absent writing or court order. (Code
Civ. Proc. §2024.020(b); Code Civ. Proc. §2024.060.) 
 
As will be discussed more thoroughly below, considering the
(i) necessity to depose
Castillo, (ii) the resulting prejudice absent Castillo’s deposition, and (iii)
that the new trial date is not until April 9, 2024, the court grants
Defendant’s motion.[2]
 
First, Plaintiff avers that “Defendant had over a year
during the pendency of the MSJ to complete discovery and in fact obtained three
trial continuances specifically to complete discovery.” (Opp. p. 7:17-18). Yet,
Plaintiff’s recitation of events illustrates that it was Plaintiff who
sought continuances. 
 
The first stipulation on 9/7/22 materialized because “Plaintiff
had not yet been able to obtain the deposition of Defendant.” (Opp. p.
3:16-17.) The second stipulation was necessary because Plaintiff’s
counsel had to undergo spinal surgery and had still been unable to take
Defendant’s deposition to oppose the MSJ. (Opp. p. 3:18-20.) Thee third
stipulation transpired “solely based on Plaintiff’s inability to obtain
Defendant’s deposition and for the parties to complete discovery and
mediation.” (Opp. p. 3:24-25, italics added). Thus, it was Plaintiff who
effectively received three continuances, not Defendant. 
 
Second, Plaintiff avers that Defendant “elected not to
conduct any further discovery for a year while their motion for summary
judgment was pending.” (Opp. p. 3:12-13.) But again, taking Plaintiff’s
description of events, why would Defendant need to conduct further discovery
when it already conducted substantial discovery. (Opp. p. 3:9-10
[“Defendant conducted substantial written discovery in May 2021.”],
italics added.) Thus, it cannot be fairly concluded that Defendant engaged in
dilatory inaction when it conducted substantial discovery (i.e.,
action). 
 
Third, Plaintiff appears to argue that Defendant should have
deposed Castillo earlier because she is the primary witness to the alleged
sexual harassment that Defendant claims was the reason for Plaintiff’s
termination. (Opp. p. 7:15-16.) 
 
While that may be so, Castillo did not necessarily tie into
Defendant’s MSJ. Defendant’s MSJ rather focused on the law: so long an employee
was discharged based upon an honest and appropriate investigation, the
termination of Plaintiff was fair. (See Motion, citing Cotran v. Rollins
Hudig Hall (1998) 17 Cal.4th 93, see Reply, citing Cotran, and see
final ruling [wherein court took matter under submission to address Cotran].
Thus, as Defendant had already interviewed Castillo prior to
terminating Plaintiff, that interview was sufficient for purposes of the
MSJ. Plainly put, it was not about what Castillo said after Plaintiff’s
termination but whether Castillo was interviewed in the first place. 
 
Fourth, as for
prejudice, while other discovery motions may be triggered, what will
happen is that Castillo will be called as a witness such that precluding
Defendant from deposing her prior to trial will result in prejudice.  
 
Fifth, to
the extent that Plaintiff argues re-opening discovery will disincentive
Defendant from participating in settlement discussions, not so. If anything,
the deposition would 
“facilitate, not hinder, settlement discussions because it will allow the
parties to be fully comprised of Ms. Castillo’s testimony, her knowledge as to
the salient facts, and her explanation of the differences between her
statements. Such information, good or bad for either side, will allow the
parties to fully evaluate their positions when discussing settlement at the
MSC.” (Reply p. 4:12-16.)[3] 
 
Next, to
the extent that Defendant avers that the court’s 6/20/23 minute order expressly
stated that the cut-off date would not be extended to the new trial date
(Opp. p. 4), that is not an accurate representation of the minute order. The
6/20/23 minute order makes no explicit reference to discovery cut-off. At most,
page 4 of 5 of the minute order states, “ALL FUTURE DATES stand at this time.” This
statement is not found in the minute order in connection with the discussion of
the trial continuance. (Reply p. 2.) Instead, the statement appears to be part
of the “General Statement of Policies and Procedures for Settlement Conference.”

 
Lastly, Plaintiff
argues that Defendant has not established that expert testimony in this
case will be presented, much less that an inability to depose any such expert
is critical to the defense of this case.” (Opp. 9:15-16.) Defendant avers that
should Plaintiff not intend to call an expert witness, then Defendant will have
no need for expert discovery. 
 
The court will inquire about the
exchange of expert witness information; the ruling regarding expert discovery
is TBD. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on
the foregoing, discovery is reopened to permit the deposition of Castillo and
TBD as to expert discovery. Should Plaintiff seek to re-open discovery to
conduct its own non-expert and expert discovery, that is also granted, and
Defendant takes no issue with it. (Reply p. 4:23-24.) 


