 Case Number:  23PSCV00764    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
Defendant, EMANATE HEALTH
MEDICAL CENTER DBA: EMANATE HEALTH QUEEN OF THE VALLEY HOSPITAL’s (erroneously
sued and served as EMANATE HEALTH QUEEN OF THE VALLEY and EMANATE HEALTH
MEDICAL CENTER) DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT is SUSTAINED with leave to
amend (only as to 2nd COA as Defendant does not demurrer to the 1st
COA). 
 
Background
 
This is
an alleged elder abuse case/dependent adult case. Plaintiff DANIEL E.
HENDRIX, by and through Vanessa Toloza, his Guardian Ad Litem alleges the
following against Defendants EMANATE HEALTH QUEEN OF THE VALLEY HOSPITAL (the
“Hospital”); EMANATE HEALTH MEDICAL CENTER: On January 4, 2022, Plaintiff
presented to the Hospital for admission to fix his preexisting
ventriculoperitoneal shunt. There were complications with the procedure,
requiring Plaintiff’s one month stay at the Hospital. (Complaint  ¶¶12, 13.) By the time of Plaintiff’s
discharge, he developed a “full thickness Stage III or IV sacrococcygeal
pressure ulcer.” (¶17.)
“Although the Defendants knew that the Plaintiff was incontinent and fully
dependent on the Defendants for hygiene in connection with his incontinence,
among others, the Defendants failed to provide the Plaintiff with the
assistance he required with these activities including bathing, dressing,
showering and personal hygiene, among others.” (¶22.) 
 
On March 14, 2023, Plaintiff filed suit for (1) Negligence/Professional
Medical Negligence and (2) Elder Abuse/Willful Misconduct.
 
On November 3, 2023, Defendant EMANATE HEAL TH MEDICAL CENTER DBA: EMANATE
HEALTH QUEEN OF THE VALLEY HOSPITAL (Erroneously Sued And Served As EMANATE
HEALTH QUEEN OF THE VALLEY and EMANATE HEALTH MEDICAL CENTER) filed the instant
demurrer. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Defendant demurs to Plaintiffs complaint pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 430.l0(e). Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10(e) provides
that a party against whom a complaint has 
been filed may demur on the grounds that the complaint fails to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
 
Discussion
 
Defendant demurs to the second cause of action fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action for elder abuse specifically in that
Plaintiff has not alleged facts constituting authorization or ratification on
the part of an officer, director or managing agent of the defendant
corporation. (Defendant is not demurring to the cause of action for negligence
nor is Defendant disputing the sufficiency of ‘recklessness.’) 
 
The court agrees. 
 
The facts constituting
the neglect and establishing the causal link between the neglect and the injury
must be pleaded with particularity, in accordance with the pleading rules
governing statutory claims.” (Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC
(2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 406-407 [quotation marks and citations
omitted].) Moreover, when
an elder abuse claim is brought against a corporate defendant, the plaintiff
must further show that an officer, director or managing agent authorized or
ratified the abuse or neglect. (Welf & Inst. Code, § 15657, subd. (c); Civ.
Code, § 3294.) 
 
The complaint
alleges that the corporate defendant was reckless by understaffing the
facility (¶¶80, 81) and
that Robert Curry, Administrator and Kathy Van Allen, Director of Nursing (P77)
ratified the conduct of its employees. 
 
Here, the
allegations are insufficient for the following reasons. 
 
First,
neither Mr. Curry nor Ms. Van Allen are alleged to have been either a corporate
officer or a member of the board of directors. (Demurrer p. 7). According to
CACI 3943, in order to be a managing agent, one has to have authority over
corporate decision-making and the determination of corporate policy. There are
no specific allegations that either individual exercised substantial
discretionary authority over significant aspects of the Hospital’s business.
Therefore, as noted by Defendant, at most they were supervisors, which does not
make them managing agents for purposes of ratification. 
 
Second, as to
the understaffing and inadequate supervision allegations, they are not pled
with specificity, despite the heightened pleading standard. (Demurrer p. 6,
citing Covenant Care. Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 784;
see also Lopez v. Southern Cal. Rapid Transit Dist. (1985) 40 Cal.3d
780, 795 [statutory causes of action must be pleaded with particularity].) There
are no facts set forth regarding how the Hospital was understaffed, or how
understaffed it was, or the staffing levels of the particular unit the
plaintiff was in. (Demurrer p. 6.) As to inadequate supervision (¶85), that too is boilerplate.
For example, allegations regarding managing agents/officers’ knowledge of
Plaintiff’s alleged improper supervision are not pled. 
 
Therefore, as
the complaint sets forth boilerplate, conclusory allegations of
authorization/ratification, the complaint fails to state a COA for the Elder
Abuse/Willful Misconduct.
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the
foregoing, the demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend as to the 2nd
COA. 
 