  Case Number:  24SMCV03807    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


September 6, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV03807




MOTIONS


Ex Parte Application for TRO and OSC re: Preliminary
  Injunction




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff West Knoll Townhouse Homeowners Association,
  Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY


TBD



 
MOTION
 
On August 7, 2024, Plaintiff West Knoll Townhouse Homeowners
Association, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed suit against Defendant Jonathan L.
Simmons (“Defendant”) alleging two causes of action for (1) breach of covenant
(“CC&Rs”) and (2) Declaratory Relief, stemming from a dispute concerning
Defendant’s alleged refusal to grant Plaintiff access to Defendant’s townhouse
unit to conduct plumbing leak and environmental remediation repairs stemming
from a plumbing leak originating from Plaintiff’s unit.
 
Plaintiff now applies ex parte for a temporary restraining order and
an order to show cause why a preliminary injunction should not issue, granting
Plaintiff immediate access to the property “to complete environmental
remediation and emergency plumbing related work, including without limitation
to remove hazardous materials from the Property and any other items located on
the Property that prevent performance of emergency plumbing repairs.”
 
The Court has not yet received an opposition at the time this
tentative ruling was posted.
 
ANALYSIS
 
            “An applicant [for ex parte relief] must
make an affirmative factual showing in a declaration containing competent
testimony based on personal knowledge of irreparable harm, immediate danger, or
any other statutory basis for granting relief ex parte.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1202(c).)  
 
            Here, Plaintiff has provided the
Declaration of Shawn Zahedi, one of Plaintiff’s board members, which indicates
as follows:
 
2. In or around the end of May of 2024, the
Association noticed a continued leak in the stairway and parking garage
underneath the Property located at 8601 West Knoll Drive, Unit 4, West
Hollywood, CA 90069 (“Subject Property”) which is owned by Defendant JONATHAN
L. SIMMONS. Water was found to be leaking into the upper portion of the parking
garage and into the storage area for a Unit owner. 
 
3. When the leak continued, the Association
retained Flood Brothers Plumbing, Inc. (“Flood Brothers”) to conduct an
inspection of the parking garage and the leak. Flood Brothers inspected the
Association’s parking garage on or about June 5, 2024. Flood Brothers found
that a “live active emergency water leak” existed that appeared to originate
from the Subject Property. 
 
4. The Association continued with attempts to
access the Unit but was unsuccessful in doing so. The Association has reached
out to Code Compliance for the City of West Hollywood. On or about June 7,
2024, a representative of the City’s Code Compliance department, Edward
Espinoza, knocked on the door of the Subject Property, and left after no
response was received. Mr. Espinoza indicated that he would be sending a letter
to Defendant and would begin the citation process if no response was received.
The Association has continued with attempts to follow up with Code Compliance
but the status of the matter is unknown. 
 
5. On or about June 20th, 2024, Flood Brothers
attempted to inspect the Subject Property after gaining entry via a locksmith
in the presence of the Sheriff’s department. Flood Brothers refused to enter
the Subject Property due to the amount of hazardous materials blocking the
entrance, and the smell of mold and/or mildew. Flood Brothers advised the
Association that environmental remediation in the Unit was necessary before
they would enter to perform plumbing repairs. Photographs of the condition of
the Property observed on June 20th are attached hereto as Exhibit “5.” 
 
6. Despite continued efforts to follow up with
the Code Compliance Department for the City of West Hollywood to address the
condition of the Subject Property, Code Compliance has offered no direction or
status of the matter. On July 18, 2024 Code Compliance indicated that the
Association should pursue obtaining a Court Order to access the Unit. 
 
7. On or about July 22, 2024, Flood Brothers
conducted an additional inspection of the parking garage and the Subject
Property to assess the active water leak. Flood Brothers was unable to access
the Subject Property, again in part due to the debris and hazardous materials
prohibiting access outside of Owner’s Unit. Flood Brother’s inspection found
that an “active emergency water leak” was present.
 
(Zahedi
Decl. ¶¶ 2-7.)
 
            Although Plaintiff characterizes the
water leak as an “emergency,” Plaintiff also indicates the leak has been
ongoing for several months.  (Zahedi
Decl. ¶ 2.)  As such, Plaintiff has not
demonstrated why the relief sought could not be requested via a regular noticed
motion.
 
            Plaintiff has also provided the Declaration
of Giovani Longo, CEO of Flood Brothers Plumbing, the company that inspected
the source of the leak.  Attached as
Exhibit 1 to the Longo Declaration is a June 5, 2024 invoice, which notes, “Based
on our initial evaluation there will be significant secondary damage to the
property (Unit #4) and potentially other adjacent units if this matter is not
properly addressed within 72 hours.”  
 
            Attached as Exhibit 2 to the Longo
Declaration is a June 21, 2024 invoice which indicates, “We were unable to
properly inspect and/or diagnose the apparent active plumbing leak due to the
amount of debris and hazardous material/waste currently barricading the
entrance” but “Based on our initial evaluation there will be significant
secondary damage to the property (Unit #4) and potentially other adjacent units
if this matter is not properly addressed as soon as possible.”  
 
Thus, the harm caused by the ongoing leak appears to be
repairable.  Further, despite the June 5
warning that repairs should be made within 72 hours to prevent “significant
secondary damage to the property and potentially other units,” Plaintiff
delayed several months before filing this action, and delayed an additional
month between filing the complaint and requesting ex parte relief.  As such, at this juncture, it is unclear what
irreparable harm or imminent danger will result from the additional time it takes
a regularly noticed motion to be heard.  Further
underscoring the lack of immediate danger at this juncture is the fact that the
City of West Hollywood’s Code Compliance Department has also not acted with any
urgency.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore,
having failed to make an affirmative factual showing of irreparable harm,
immediate danger, or any other statutory basis for granting ex parte relief,
Plaintiff’s ex parte application for a temporary restraining order and order to
show cause why a preliminary injunction should not issue is denied.  
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith. 

 
 
DATED:  September 6, 2024                                     ____Judge
of the Superior Court