 Case Number:  23VECV03465    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  T Basutkar v VW 23VECV03465
Tentative rulings on MILs
All rulings on all motions in limine apply with equal effect
on all parties, counsel, and witnesses. 
Counsel are required to advise their clients and witnesses of these court
rulings.
Plaintiff's Motions in Limine
1.           To exclude
mention, discussion, questions, answers, arguments, re settlement negotiations:
Grant
2.           To exclude
evidence, testimony, questions, answers, or argument, etc that defendant
proposed arbitration: Grant.
3.           To exclude
any reference to attorney fees and litigation costs: Grant
4.           To exclude
evidence, questions, answers,  testimony,
or argument re plaintiff's application for financing (only as to financial
condition) and financial condition: Grant
5.           To exclude
any mention referring or relating to attorney advertising: Grant
6.           To exclude
evidence, questions, answers, or argument that plaintiff was required to revoke
acceptance of the vehicle in order to recover restitution: Grant.
7.           To
establish that statements by dealership personnel are not hearsay and
admissible: Grant as to representations made to plaintiff about the vehicle by
dealer employees.
8.           To exclude
evidence or any mention of CCP 998 offer: Grant
Defendant's Motions in Limine
1.           To exclude
reference to bad reputation of VW: Grant.
2.           To
preclude mention of defendant's size, financial condition or foreign ownership:
Grant
3.           To
preclude reference to Golden Rule or reptile arguments: Grant
4.           To
preclude reference to technical bulletins and recall campaigns unrelated to
plaintiff's claims: Grant
5.           To
preclude mention of one time complaints: Deny
6.           To exclude
mention of VW advertising and marketing materials and slogans: Grant unless
first obtains permission from the court.
7.           To exclude
mention of plaintiff's expectations of the vehicle: Grant
8.           To preclude
expert testimony from lay witnesses: Grant
9.           To
preclude evidence not produced in discovery: It depends on what discovery, what
was requested, what was the answer and was a motion made.
10.        To preclude
reference to plaintiff's emotional distress: Grant.
11.        To preclude
reference to statutory presumption of Civil Code section 1793.22: Grant
 