  Case Number:  23STCV22620    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  T 23STCV22620 GEORGE GABRIEL,
AN INDIVIDU... vs BRIAN DOZIER
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant KVA Investments LLC’s Motion to
Expunge Lis Pendens is DENIED. Objections are ruled on by separate order.
Introduction 
Defendant KVA Investments LLC
(Defendant) moved to expunge the lis pendens filed/recorded by Plaintiffs
George Gabriel, both individually and as Trustee of The 1007 16th Street Trust;
as Trustee of The Gabriel Family Trust, U/A dated January 21, 2008; as Trustee
of Arada Trust dated February 2, 1999 (Gabriel); and MGM Gabriel &
Associates, Inc. (MGM) (collectively, Plaintiffs).  The lis pendens only involved the property
located at 1007 16th Street, Santa Monica, CA 90403 (16th St. Property).  The lis pendens  was recorded on September 25, 2023 and the
notice of recording was filed on October 12, 2023.
Discussion 
A motion to expunge a lis pendens
may argue that the pleading does not contain a real property claim (Code Civ.
Proc., sec. 405.31) or plaintiff cannot establish the probable validity by a
preponderance of the evidence (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 405.32). Whether a
complaint is sufficient in asserting a real-property claim is determined under
a demurrer-like analysis.  (Kirkeby v.
Superior Court (2004) 33 Cal.4th 642, 648.) 
The burden is on the opposing party to show that the complaint contains
allegations of a real-property claim, and to present evidence of the probable
validity of the claim based upon a preponderance of evidence.  (Code Civ. Proc., secs. 405.30;  De Martini v. Superior Court (2024) 98
Cal.App.5th 1269, 1278-1279.)  
At issue is whether the fourth
cause of action (COA) for quiet title is sufficient to allege a real property
claim by surviving a demurrer-like analysis. 
The factual allegations related to the 16th St. Property provide that
Plaintiffs voluntarily cooperated with Co-Defendant Brian Dozier (Dozier) to
secure funding for Plaintiffs’ father’s debts that encumbered the 16th St.
Property.  However, Plaintiffs’
cooperation was allegedly secured by Dozier’s fraudulent representations
regarding the debt and the subsequent loans secured by the 16th St. Property.  Plaintiffs alleged that the funds did not go
to pay the debts but went to Dozier. 
Through the multiple fraudulent encumbrances and foreclosures entered by
Dozier, the 16th St. Property ultimately was conveyed to Defendant through
Defendant’s foreclosure sale.  However,
Dozier had allegedly misrepresented that the many different encumbrances
against the 16th St. Property would ultimately be nullified and the 16th St.
Property would be returned to Plaintiffs’ ownership.  (Second Amended Complaint (SAC) pars.
46-61.)  Plaintiff further alleged that
Defendant was a co-conspirator with Dozier in fraudulently encumbering the 16th
St. Property and improperly foreclosing on the loan.  (SAC pars. 61-70.)  The factual allegations provide that
Defendant obtained title to the 16th St. Property through a conspiracy to
defraud Plaintiffs.  Based upon these fact
allegations, Plaintiff alleged that Defendant’s legal title was obtained by
fraud.  It is a general rule that the
holder of equitable title cannot maintain a quiet title action against the
holder of legal title.  (Warren v.
Merrill (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 96, 113.) 
But an exception exists “when legal title has been acquired through fraud
(Id at p. 114;  See also Liberty National
Enterprises, L.P. v. Chicago Title Ins. Co. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 62,
81.)  Because Plaintiff sufficiently
alleged fraud in Defendant’s obtaining title to the property, Plaintiff
sufficiently alleged a quiet title COA and sufficiently alleged a real property
claim to support lis pendens. 
Plaintiff must then show probable
validity of the quiet title COA by a preponderance of the evidence.  The quiet title COA is only alleged against
Defendant and Co-Defendants Alex and Edward Akselrod.  Plaintiff alleged that Defendant’s claim of
title ownership is invalid based upon fraud perpetrated by Dozier and
Defendant.  Defendant’s alleged ownership
interest in the property requires a review of Tymeout LP and Michael and
Melissa Leskinen’s (collectively Tymeout/Leskinen) loan and security interest,
the alleged settlement with Tymeout/Leskinen, and Plentywood’s ownership
interest in the property or lack thereof. 
Tymeout/Leskinen’s loan was for $1.55 million and secured by the 16th
St. Property.  Plaintiff alleged that the
Tymeout/Leskinen Loan was a fraud because Plaintiff did not receive the
funds.  The funds allegedly went to
Dozier.  However, Tymeout/Leskinen
foreclosed on their loan and purchased 16th St. Property on a credit bid.  Dozier allegedly brokered a settlement
agreement with Tymeout/Leskinen, wherein Co-Defendant Plentywood Springs LLC
(Plentywood), a straw buyer and  Dozier’s
shell company, offered to pay $2.01 million to purchase the property.  (SAC pars. 58-59; Plaintiff’s Decl. par.
14-15.)  Dozier allegedly misrepresented
that Plentywood would only hold title to 16th St. Property in trust for
Plaintiff and title would eventually be returned to Plaintiff.  (SAC par. 59; Plaintiff’s Decl. par.
14.)  Dozier misrepresented that
Plentywood would fund the settlement agreement as an all cash transaction,
without any financing.  (Id.)  However, in reality and unbeknownst to
Plaintiff, Dozier financed the $2 million with a loan from Defendant and a Deed
of Trust (DOT) given to Defendant.  (SAC
par. 60; Plaintiff’s Decl. par. 15.) 
Defendant argued that they are an innocent party and a bona fide
purchaser for value.  However,
Plaintiff’s evidence disputes Defendant’s contention of bona fide purchaser
status.  Defendant asserted that they
issued a $2 million loan to Plentywood secured by the 16th St. Property.  However, Plaintiff’s evidence shows that
Tymeout/Leskinen’s transfer of the 16th St. Property to Plentywood was
ineffectual.  The grant deed purportedly
conveying the property from Tymeout/Leskinen to Plentywood was only signed by
Tymeout on June 28, 2021.  There is no
signature from either of the Leskinens. 
(SAC par. 60, Exh. 20.)  The grant
deed was then recorded on April 22, 2022 without Leskinens’ signatures.  The evidence shows that Plentywood did not
obtain ownership interest in the property through the Tymeout/Leskinen grant
deed.  Defendant’s DOT securing their $2
million loan to Plentywood was entered on April 20, 2022 and recorded on April
22, 2022.  (SAC par. 60, Exh. 21.)  Without Leskinens’ signature on the grant
deed, the evidence shows Plentywood’s inability to use the property as security
for the loan from Defendant.  Plaintiff’s
evidence shows Defendant’s claim to title as being invalid because Plentywood
did not have ownership interest in the property and Plentywood could not use
the property as collateral for the loan from Defendant.  On this defect in the chain of title, there
is evidence that Defendant’s foreclosure on the property is invalid.  With evidence showing Defendant’s claim to
the property as being invalid, Plaintiff met their burden to show probable
validity of the quiet title COA against Defendant.   
With evidence of the defect in
the chain of title to Defendant, Plaintiff’s claims of a conspiracy between
Defendant and Dozier are not necessary. 
Plaintiff presented evidence to directly dispute Defendant’s interest in
the property without having to claim the conspiracy.
Plaintiff met their burden of
proof to show probable validity of the quiet title COA against Defendant.
The motion to expunge lis pendens
is DENIED.
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.