 Case Number:  23VECV03864    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  T Abazari v VW 23VECV03864
Tentative rulings on MILs
All rulings on all motions in limine apply with equal effect
on all parties, counsel, and witnesses. 
Counsel are required to advise their clients and witnesses of these court
rulings.
Plaintiff's Motions in Limine
1.           To exclude
mention, discussion, questions, answers, arguments, re settlement negotiations:
Grant
2.           To exclude
evidence, testimony, questions, answers, or argument, etc that defendant
proposed arbitration: Grant.
3.           To exclude
any reference to attorney fees and litigation costs: Grant
4.           To exclude
evidence, questions, answers,  testimony,
or argument re plaintiff's application for financing (only as to financial
condition) and financial condition: Grant
5.           To exclude
any mention referring or relating to attorney advertising: Grant
6.           To exclude
evidence, questions, answers, or argument that plaintiff was required to revoke
acceptance of the vehicle in order to recover restitution: Grant.
7.           To
establish that statements by dealership personnel are not hearsay and
admissible: Grant as to representations made to plaintiff about the vehicle by
dealer employees.
8.           To exclude
evidence or any mention of CCP 998 offer: Grant
Defendant's Motions in Limine
1.           To
preclude mention of one time and unreported complaints: Deny as to 1 time,
Grant as to unreported.
2.           To exclude
evidence of other similar incidents: Deny.
3.           To
preclude reference to Golden Rule or reptile arguments: Grant
4.           To
preclude mention of defendant's size, financial condition or foreign ownership:
Grant
5.           To exclude
reference to bad reputation of VW: Grant.
6.           To exclude
evidence or argument of other manufacturers: Grant.
7.           To exclude
mention of non-warranty concerns: Grant.
8.           To
preclude evidence of non authorize service centers or dealerships: Deny.
9.           To
preclude reference to technical bulletins and recall campaigns unrelated to
plaintiff's claims: Grant
10.        To preclude
evidence not produced in discovery: It depends on what discovery, what was
requested, what was the answer and was a motion made.
11.        To preclude
evidence of costs of vehicle use: Grant.