  Case Number:  23LBCV00857    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
This action arises from a motor
vehicle accident that occurred on October 6, 2022. On May 10, 2023, Plaintiff
Erikka Bailey (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Yen Wei Pan
(“Defendant”) and Does 1 to 25, alleging causes of action for: (1) general
negligence and (2) motor vehicle. Plaintiff alleges that she sustained injuries
to her person and property in the motor vehicle accident. Plaintiff alleges
that she has suffered general damage, loss of use of property, and hospital and
medical expenses. 
 
Defendant propounded deposition
subpoenas for production of business records from Farmers Insurance Exchange
and National General Insurance Company (collectively, the “Subpoenas”).
(Declaration of Cherif Elsheikh [“Elsheikh Decl.”], ¶ 4 and Exhibit A.) 
The subpoena directed to Farmers
Insurance Exchange seeks “ANY AND ALL NON-PRIVILEGED
DOCUMENTS PERTAINING TO THE DATE OF LOSS: 5/12/2014, CLAIM NUMBER 300057262715,
POLICY NUMBER G003807828, INCLUDING INSURANCE RECORDS, MEDICAL RECORDS, X-RAYS,
PATHOLOGY REPORTS, SIGN-IN SHEETS, BILLING R&N, BILLING RECORDS, AND
PHARMACY/PRESCRIPTION RECORDS RELATING TO ERIKKA BAILEY” (the “Farmers
Subpoena”). (Id.) 
 
The subpoena directed to National General
Insurance Company seeks the following: “ANY AND ALL NON-PRIVILEGED DOCUMENTS
PERTAINING TO THE DATE OF LOSS: 5/12/2014, CLAIM NUMBER 9993706, POLICY NUMBER 2002379667,
INCLUDING INSURANCE RECORDS, MEDICAL RECORDS, X-RAYS, PATHOLOGY REPORTS,
SIGN-IN SHEETS, BILLING R&N, BILLING RECORDS, AND PHARMACY/PRESCRIPTION
RECORDS RELATING TO ERIKKA BAILEY” (the “National General Subpoena”). (Id.)
 
On September 1, 2023, Plaintiff
filed the instant motion to quash the Subpoenas in their entirety (the
“Motion”). The Motion is made on the grounds that the Subpoenas are overbroad
in scope and subject matter, harassing, seek information that is not relevant
nor reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, seek
privileged information, and is invasive of Plaintiff’s right to privacy. 
 
On November 21, 2023, Defendant
filed an opposition to the Motion. Defendant contends that the Subpoenas are
not overbroad, Defendant is entitled to all records that may lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence, and the medical and billing records sought
are not protected by Plaintiff’s right to privacy. 
 
In the opposition, Defendant
indicates that Defendant is no longer seeking disclosure of all property damage
or traffic collision information pertaining to Plaintiff’s 2014 accident. Based
on the opposition, it appears that Defendant is now only seeking discovery of
Plaintiff’s medical and billing records pursuant to the Subpoenas. Defendant
contends that Defendant is entitled to know whether Plaintiff sustained the
same injuries in the accident which gave rise to the complaint, and what
medical doctors/facilities Plaintiff treated with. 
 
Plaintiff filed a reply brief on
November 29, 2023, and asserts that she has a constitutional right of privacy
pertaining to insurance records. 
 
            Defendant
only seeks disclosure of Plaintiff’s medical records and billing records
pursuant to the Subpoenas. As will be explained below, however, none of the
records sought by the Subpoenas—including Plaintiff’s medical and billing
records—are subject to disclosure.  
 
2.     Quash
Deposition Subpoena for Production of Business Records 
 
a.         Legal Standard
  “If a subpoena requires . . . the production
of . . . documents . . . before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein,
or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any
person . . . may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or
directing compliance with it upon those terms and conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).) 
 
In California, discovery statutes “must be construed liberally in favor
of disclosure unless the request is clearly improper.” (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 541.) “Under the
discovery statutes, information is discoverable if it is unprivileged and is
either relevant to the subject matter of the action or reasonably calculated to
reveal admissible evidence.” (John B. v. Superior Court (2006) 38
Cal.4th 1177, 1186.) “Discovery may relate to the claim or defense of the party
seeking discovery or of any other party to the action.” (Ibid.)  
 
b.         Analysis
i.          Right to Privacy
 “The California Constitution guarantees to
individuals the right of privacy.” (Grafilo v. Wolfsohn (2019) 33
Cal.App.5th 1024, 1033.) A person has a right of privacy to information
contained in their medical records. (Id. at p. 1034.) “[T]he
individual’s right to privacy encompasses not only the state of his mind, but
also his viscera, detailed complaints of physical ills, and their emotional
overtones.” (Ibid.) “The right to privacy, however, is not absolute.” (Ibid.)
“Potential invasions of privacy are ordinarily evaluated by balancing the
privacy interest at stake and the seriousness of the threatened invasion with
the strength of legitimate and important countervailing interests.” (Ibid.)
“On occasion [a party’s] privacy interests may give way to the opponent’s right
to a fair trial. Thus, courts must balance the right of civil litigants to
discovery relevant facts against the privacy interests of persons subject to
discovery.” (John B. v. Superior Court, supra, 38 Cal.4th
1177, 1199.) Where a plaintiff places their medical condition at issue, such
plaintiff has lowered their expectation of privacy. (Ibid.)  A party seeking to limit discovery must show
good cause for such limitation. (Valley Bank of Nevada v. Superior Court (1975)
15 Cal.3d 652, 657.) 
 
In support of the Motion,
Plaintiff’s counsel declares that the Subpoenas are drastically overbroad,
harassing and oppressive, irrelevant and unlikely to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence, and violates Plaintiff’s privacy rights. (Elsheikh Decl.,
¶ 5.)  Counsel further declares that the
documents sought are protected by the attorney-client privilege. (Id., ¶
6.) 
 
Here, the Court finds that Plaintiff
has an expectation and right of privacy in her medical records. The Subpoenas
seek medical records, x-rays, pathology reports, sign-in sheets, billing
r&n, billing records, and pharmacy/prescription records relating to
insurance claim as to a May 14, 2014 date of loss. Under Grafilo v. Wolfsohn,
supra, 33 Cal.App.5th 1024, Plaintiff has a privacy interest in her
medical records.  Plaintiff, however, has
a lower expectation of privacy in such records given that she is claiming
physical injuries, as well as medical expenses, in the instant action. In the
complaint, Plaintiff specifically alleges that she “was hurt, physically
injured, [and] sustain[ed] medical bills.” (Complaint, MC-025 at Attachment 1.)
Thus, Plaintiff has put her physical condition at issue in this action. It
follows that Plaintiff’s medical and billing records related to the May 14,
2014 loss are relevant to Defendant evaluating the source of Plaintiff’s
claimed injuries as well as the extent of Plaintiff’s claimed damages.  
 
While Plaintiff’s medical and
billing records are relevant to the defense in this action, as will be
explained below, disclosure of such medical and billing records are barred
because they are in a file of Plaintiff’s insurer. 
 
ii.          The Attorney-Client Privilege  
Plaintiff contends that the
Subpoenas seek documents that are protected by the attorney-client privilege. 
 
“With certain exceptions . . . a
client has a privilege to refuse to disclose, and to prevent another from
disclosing, a confidential communication between a client and a lawyer.” (Soltani-Rastegar
v. Superior Court (1989) 208 Cal.App.3d 424, 426.) “The party claiming the
privilege carries the burden of showing that the evidence which is seeks to
suppress is within the terms of the statute.” (Ibid.) “The
attorney-client privilege attaches to a confidential communication between the
attorney and the client and bars discovery of the communication irrespective of
whether it includes unprivileged material.” (Costco Wholesale Corp. v.
Superior Court (2009) 47 Cal.4th 725, 734.) “[T]he privilege covers the
transmission of documents which are available to the public, and not merely
information in the sole possession of the attorney or client.” (Ibid.) “[I]t
is the actual fact of the transmission which merits protection, since discovery
of the transmission of specific . . . documents might very well reveal the
transmitter’s intended strategy.” (Ibid.) 
 
Initially, the Court finds that
Plaintiff’s reliance on Soltani-Rastegar v. Superior Court, supra,
208 Cal.App.3d 424 is inapposite. Soltani-Rastegar concerned the
transmission of statements to an insurance claims representative in the
contemplation of litigation and such statements were directed to an agent of an
attorney. (Soltani-Rastegar v. Superior Court, supra, 208
Cal.App.3d 424, 425.) Here, however, there is no indication that Plaintiff is
seeking to prevent the disclosure of statements made to an insurance claims
representative or that Plaintiff’s medical and billing records were transmitted
in contemplation of litigation. Moreover, the declaration of counsel in support
of the Motion merely states that the documents sought in the Subpoenas are protected
by the attorney-client privilege. 
 
Without facts indicating how such
documents come within the scope of the attorney-client privilege, the Court
finds that Plaintiff has not met her burden in showing how the medical records
and billing records sought by the Subpoenas are protected by the attorney-client
privilege. 
 
Therefore, the Court finds that
Plaintiff’s medical and billing records pertaining to the May 12, 2014 motor
vehicle accident are not protected by the attorney-client privilege. 
 
iii.         Insurance Code section 791.13
Plaintiff contends that California Insurance
Code, Section 791.13 prevents disclosure of all the documents requested in
the Subpoenas. The Court agrees with Plaintiff. The Court notes that the
opposition does not rebut such argument. The Court finds that Defendant has
conceded to such argument because “[c]ontentions are waived when a party fails
to support them with reasoned argument and citations to authority.” (Moulton
Niguel Water Dist. v. Colombo (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215.) Despite
such concession, the Court will still analyze Plaintiff’s argument on such
point. 
 
Ins. Code § 791.13 “prohibits an
insurance company or its agents from disclosing any personal or privileged
information about an individual collected or received in connection with an
insurance transaction unless the disclosure is (a) [w]ith the written authorization
of the individual . . . obtained one year or less prior to the date a
disclosure is sought.” (Mead Reinsurance Co. v. Superior Court (1986)
188 Cal.App.3d 313, 321.) Privileged information “means any individually
identifiable information that both: (1) Relates to a claim for insurance
benefits or a civil or criminal proceeding involving an individual . . . [and]
(2) Is collected in connection with or in reasonable anticipation of a claim
for insurance benefits.” (Ins. Code, § 791.02, subd. (v)(1)-(2).)  Personal information is defined as “any
individually identifiable information gathered in connection with an insurance
transaction from which judgments can be made about an individual’s character,
habits, avocations, finances, occupation, general reputation, credit, health,
or any other personal characteristics.” (Ins. Code, § 791.02, subd. (s).) 
 
Here, the Subpoenas are directed to
insurance companies and seek documents in the files of those insurance
companies. The Subpoenas seek personal and privileged information of Plaintiff
such as her insurance, medical, and billing records. Such records are related
to an insurance transaction because the documents sought are related to prior
insurance claims filed by Plaintiff. Plaintiff does not and has not consented
to the disclosure of the documents requested in the Subpoenas. Thus, under Mead
Reinsurance Co. v. Superior Court, supra, 188 Cal.App.3d 313, 321, disclosure
of the records sought by the Subpoenas is barred. 
 
Thus, the Court GRANTS the Motion
and quashes the Subpoenas in their entirety. 
 
3.     Conclusion
The Motion is GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the
court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the
tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not
receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party
submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the
party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this
matter.   