  Case Number:  23STCV23370    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



KIMBERLEY
  GAITHER,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
AFLAC aka
  AMERICAN FAMILY LIFE ASSURANCE COMPANY OF COLUMBUS; BRENDA DOUGLAS an individual;
  DOES 1 through 50, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV23370
 Hearing Date:   6/27/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant Brenda
  Douglas’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint [Res ID # 1425].



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff Kimberley Gaither sues
Defendants AFLAC, Brenda Douglas, and Does 1 through 50 pursuant to a September
27, 2023, Complaint alleging claims of (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Bad Faith
Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, and (3) Declaratory
Relief.
The Complaint arises from the
following allegations. Kimberley Gaither was insured under an AFLAC Accident
Insurance Policy, policy number A8792900 (the policy). Defendant Douglas was
the AFLAC insurance agent who sold Kimberley Gaither the policy. (Attached to
the Complaint as Exhibit A.) The policy provided accident coverage and
hospitalization benefits for Kimberley Gaither’s late spouse, Dwayne Gaither,
who died on February 23, 2022, at Kaiser Permanente Hospital (KPH) because of
the negligence of KPH and its staff. During the policy period, Dwayne Gaither
suffered loss of vision, removal of a testicle, ICU confinement, a
hospitalization stroke, and dismemberment, all injuries covered under the
policy. Kimberley Gaither timely filed a claim for these injuries with AFLAC,
which AFLAC denied despite Kimberley Gaither complying with all conditions
precedent to receipt of benefits under the policy.
B. Motion Before the Court
On June 27, 2024, Defendant Douglas
filed a demurrer challenging the Complaint’s three causes of action as alleged
against her.
On June 13, 2024, Plaintiff Kimberley
Gaither filed an opposition, and on June 20, 2024, Defendant Douglas filed a
reply.
Defendant Douglas’s demurrer is now
before the Court.
 
II. Demurrer: SUSTAINED.
A. Legal Standard
A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747; see Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).)
To sufficiently allege a cause of
action, a complaint must allege all the ultimate facts—that is, the facts
needed to establish each element of the cause of action pleaded. (Committee
on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197,
212, superseded by statute as stated in Branick v. Downey Savings & Loan
Assn. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 235, 242.) “[E]ach evidentiary fact that might
eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v.
William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.)
In testing the sufficiency of the
cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly
pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962,
966-67.) Courts read the allegations liberally and in context. (Taylor v.
City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216,
1228, disapproved on other grounds, Jones v. Lodge at Torrey Pines
Partnership (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1158, 1162.) A demurrer, however, “does not
admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v.
Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) 
A demurrer may only be used to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v.
Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The face of the complaint includes
exhibits attached to the complaint. (Frantz v. Blackwell (1987) 189
Cal.App.3d 91, 94.) If facts appearing in the exhibits contradict those
alleged, the facts in the exhibits take precedence. (Holland v. Morse Diesel
Intern., Inc. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1443, 1447, superseded by statute on
other grounds as stated in White v. Cridlebaugh (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th
506, 521.)
B. Analysis
1. Parties’
Arguments
Defendant Douglas’s demurrer
contends that the Complaint’s three causes of action are defectively alleged
against her as follows. The policy is attached to the Complaint as Exhibit A.
The policy as attached shows that the only named parties to the policy are
Plaintiff and AFLAC, contradicting and superseding the facts alleged in the
body of the Complaint to the effect that Defendant Douglas was a party to the
policy. As the Complaint alleges, Brenda Douglas was an agent who sold the AFLAC
insurance product to Plaintiff. Because Defendant Douglas is not a party to the
policy, she cannot be liable for breach of contract or breach of the covenant
of good faith and faith dealing—both of which depend on the existence of a
contract—and a declaration of rights, a derivative claim, is unnecessary.
Plaintiff Kimberley Gaither’s
opposition contends that Defendant Douglas is a party to the policy because the
coverages promised to Kimberley Gaither by Defendant Douglas were recited in
the contract or because Defendant Douglas became a party to the policy when
AFLAC paid Douglas for the procurement of Kimberley Gaither as an insured.
Plaintiff contends that a breach of the policy against Defendant Douglas arises
from AFLAC denying each and every claim made by Kimberley Gaither despite these
coverages being outlined by Defendant Douglas to Kimberley Gaither when the
policy was procured.
Defendant Douglas’s reply addresses
why her procurement of the policy did not make her a party to the policy and
why an agent cannot be vicariously liable for the torts of the agent’s principal.
2. Court’s
Determination
The Court finds in favor of
Defendant Douglas.
The Complaint fails to allege the
existence of a contract between Plaintiff and Defendant Douglas.
The policy, which is attached to
the Complaint, shows that only Plaintiff and AFLAC are parties to that
agreement. (Complaint, Ex. A., p. 3 [“This policy is a contract between you and
AFLAC].) Defendant Douglas is not mentioned in the policy.
To determine that Defendant
Douglas’s procurement of the policy for Plaintiff Kimberley Gaither did not
make Defendant Douglas a party to the policy, the Court relies on Filippo
Industries, Inc. v. Sun Ins. Co. of New York (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 1429,
1443 (Filippo), rejected on other grounds in Morris v. Paul Revere
Life Ins. Co. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 966, 976. In Filippo, the court
of appeal determined that an underwriting agent for the insurer, as an agent of
the disclosed principal, was not a party to the insurance contract at issue,
and thus could not be held liable for breach of insurance contract or the
concomitant duty of good faith. (Filippo, supra, at p. 1443.)
This authority alone supports sustaining the demurrer as to Complaint’s breach
of contract and good faith claims (the first and second causes of action) as
alleged against Defendant Douglas, as well as the declaratory relief claim
alleged against Defendant Douglas, which is derivative of the first and second
causes of action.
The Court rejects the argument that
Defendant Douglas’s participation in procuring the policy for AFLAC and AFLAC
paying Douglas for that procurement makes Douglas a third-party beneficiary to
the policy. Beyond AFLAC paying Defendant Douglas, it is not clear how Defendant
Douglas benefits from the policy, how benefitting Douglas was a motivating
purpose for Plaintiff to obtain insurance as she did, or how permitting
Plaintiff to enforce the contract against Defendant Douglas is consistent with
the objectives and reasonable expectations of the contract. (See Goonewardene
v. ADP, LLC (2019) 6 Cal.5th 817, 830.)
Last, the Court notes that agents
are not vicariously liable for the torts or contractual breaches of their
principals. (Heringer v. Schumacher (1928) 88 Cal.App. 349, 352 (Heringer)
[“Where an agent acts on behalf of a disclosed principal, his acts and
contracts, within the scope of his authority, are generally considered as the
acts and contracts of the principal, and in the absence of an agreement
otherwise, involve no personal liability, on the part of the agent, to a third
person, except in an action for tort,” citation and quotation marks omitted];
accord Peredia v. HR Mobile Services, Inc. (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 680,
692 [same for torts].) Here, the Complaint alleges that Defendant Douglas acted
as an AFLAC agent in procuring the policy and that AFLAC later breached the
policy by denying benefits. (Complaint, ¶¶ 3, 12, Ex. D [denial of claim].)
Under these circumstances, Plaintiff is seeking to hold an agent liable for a
contractual breach of the principal, which is undermined by Heringer. To
the extent the Complaint alleges that all Defendants are one another’s agents
(Complaint, ¶ 5), the Court notes that this general allegation is contradicted
and rendered uncertain by more specific allegations in the Complaint framing
Defendant Douglas as an agent of AFLAC and not vice versa.
Finally, the arguments of plaintiff
to the effect that a principal is liable to third parties for the acts of his agents,
and the plea to continue the case against “AFLAC and Douglas” (see Opp’n, p. 4)
miss the mark. Obviously, AFLAC remains a defendant in this lawsuit, and has
filed an Answer. This demurrer is only on behalf of Defendant Douglas.
Based on this reasoning, the Court
SUSTAINS Defendant Douglas’s demurrer to the Complaint’s three causes of
action, as alleged against Douglas, all defective based on failure to allege a
contract on which to ground the first and second causes of action or the
derivative third cause of action. 
The Court will discuss leave to
amend with the parties at oral argument.
As currently alleged, the Court
does not have grounds to believe that the defects in the Complaint as to
Defendant Douglas are curable, i.e., it is not clear how an amended pleading
would allow Plaintiff to allege that Douglas is a party to the policy.
It is worth noting that Plaintiff Kimberley
Gaither’s opposition frames the liability against Defendant Douglas as arising
in part false representations regarding the coverage under the policy by
promising coverage that was later denied by AFLAC. (Opp’n, p. 7.) However, no
fraud claim is before the Court. Moreover, it is not clear that the opposition
arguments even amount to a fraud allegation. The fraud argument in the
opposition relies on the premise that Defendant Douglas either knowingly or
negligently misrepresented coverage under the policy, as shown by AFLAC’s
subsequent denial of Plaintiff’s claim for coverage. This argument is faulty
because it fails to state the basis for knowing that Defendant Douglas had
foreknowledge or should have had foreknowledge that AFLAC would deny
Plaintiff’s claim. Thus, even if the Court were inclined to grant leave to
amend for Plaintiff to allege a fraud claim against Defendant Douglas, the
alleged facts before the Court do not support fraud liability against Defendant
Douglas, undermining such leave.
The Court will hear arguments from
the parties as to leave. 
III. Conclusion
Defendant Brenda Douglas’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint [Res ID #
1425] is SUSTAINED.
The Court will discuss leave to amend with counsel at oral argument.