 Case Number:  23GDCV00934    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULING

Calendar:     3				
Date:		9/6/2024			
Case No: 	23 GDCV00934   		Trial Date:	February 10, 2025 
Case Name:	Fearnside v. General Motors LLC
MOTION TO COMPEL ANSWERS TO
DEPOSITION QUESTIONS
Moving Party:		Plaintiff Keith Fearnside   
Responding Party: 	Defendant General Motors LLC   
Name of Deponent:   PMQ of General Motors LLC   			   			
Status of Deponent:	Defendant or defendant affiliate (party)
DEPO ATTENDANCE REQUIRED BY:
Formal Notice	
RELIEF REQUESTED BY MOVING PARTY:
Order compelling defendant to testify at deposition with respect to the specific questions which defendant refused to answer at initial deposition 
FACTUAL BACKGROUND:
Plaintiff Keith Fearnside alleges that in January of 2021 plaintiff purchased a new 2021 Chevrolet Suburban, which was warranted by defendant General Motors LLC (GM), with defendant providing an express warranty and an implied warranty, including warranties that the vehicle was fit for the ordinary purposes for which vehicles are used and that it was acceptable in the trade. 
Plaintiff alleges that the vehicle was delivered to plaintiff with nonconformities to warranty, including the liftgate, sidesteps, rattle noises, transmission, water pump, oil leaks and other defects. 
  Plaintiff alleges that the defects and nonconformities to warranty manifested themselves within the applicable warranty periods.  Plaintiff alleges that plaintiff presented the vehicle to defendant’s authorized facilities for repair of these nonconformities on at least seven occasions, and that those facilities verified the concerns and performed several repair attempts, but, ultimately, many if not all of the problems remain unrepaired. 
The complaint alleges two causes of action, for Breach of Express Warranty, and Breach of Implied Warranty.
ANALYSIS:
Relief is sought under CCP section 2025.480(a), which provides:
“(a) If a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order compelling that answer or production.”
A trial court’s determination of a motion to compel discovery cannot be overturned in the absence of an abuse of discretion.  2,022 Ranch v. Superior Court (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 1377, 1387.
 Under CCP § 2017.010, “any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action...if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” 
CCP § 2025.460(b), governing deposition conduct, provides, in pertinent part:
“(a) The protection of information from discovery on the ground that it is privileged or that it is a protected work product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 2018.010) is waived unless a specific objection to its disclosure is timely made during the deposition.
(b) Errors and irregularities of any kind occurring at the oral examination that might be cured if promptly presented are waived unless a specific objection to them is timely made during the deposition. These errors and irregularities include, but are not limited to, those relating to the manner of taking the deposition, to the oath or affirmation administered, to the conduct of a party, attorney, deponent, or deposition officer, or to the form of any question or answer. Unless the objecting party demands that the taking of the deposition be suspended to permit a motion for a protective order under Sections 2025.420 and 2025.470, the deposition shall proceed subject to the objection.
(c) Objections to the competency of the deponent, or to the relevancy, materiality, or admissibility at trial of the testimony or of the materials produced are unnecessary and are not waived by failure to make them before or during the deposition.”
Under Los Angeles County Local Rules, Appendix 3.A, Guidelines for Civility in Litigation, subdivision (e), governing depositions:
“(7) Counsel defending a deposition should limit objections to those that are well founded and necessary for the protection of the client’s interest. Counsel should bear in mind that most objections are preserved and need to be interposed only when the form of a question is defective or privileged information is sought….
(9) Counsel should not direct a deponent to refuse to answer questions unless they seek privileged information or are manifestly irrelevant or calculated to harass.” 
  The separate statement shows that the motion concerns three deposition questions. 
Question 1
Q: Doesn't General Motors have a way to monitor a consumer repair history to identify if a vehicle should be repurchased? · · · · ·
Question 2
Q: So General Motors like if they can monitor that data in order to issue Technical Service Bulletins, wouldn't they also be able to monitor that data to determine if a vehicle should be repurchased?
Question 3
Q: You mentioned something earlier. You said that there was no customer contact from Mr. Fearnside expressing the issues that he has with the vehicle.  Is it General Motors' belief that the customer needs to first contact them before they can even have a discussion about offering a repurchase?
As to Questions 1 and 2, counsel for GM objected that the questions were “outside the scope and purview for which the witness is being presented regarding GM's policy and procedure” as it pertains to repurchase. The witness was then instructed not to answer.  As to Question 3, counsel for GM stated, “Same objection and same instruction not to answer.”   
Plaintiff argues that under statute, set forth above, and case law the refusal of a defendant to answer any question at deposition through use of a claim that the question is outside the scope of discovery is without merit, as the only grounds to instruct a witness not to answer a question in deposition is for privilege. The instruction here was clearly not based on privilege. 
Plaintiff argues that the questions sought information relevant to plaintiff’s claim for restitution under the Song-Beverly Act, as well as plaintiff’s claim for civil penalties under Civil Code section 1794(c). 
Under the Song-Beverly Act, in connection with express warranties:  
“(d) 
 (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), if the manufacturer or its representative in this state does not service or repair the goods to conform to the applicable express warranties after a reasonable number of attempts, the manufacturer shall either replace the goods or reimburse the buyer in an amount equal to the purchase price paid by the buyer, less that amount directly attributable to use by the buyer prior to the discovery of the nonconformity.
 (2) If the manufacturer or its representative in this state is unable to service or repair a new motor vehicle, as that term is defined in paragraph (2) of subdivision (e) of Section 1793.22, to conform to the applicable express warranties after a reasonable number of attempts, the manufacturer shall either promptly replace the new motor vehicle in accordance with subparagraph (A) or promptly make restitution to the buyer in accordance with subparagraph (B). However, the buyer shall be free to elect restitution in lieu of replacement, and in no event shall the buyer be required by the manufacturer to accept a replacement vehicle.”
Civil Code §1793.2(d). 
 Under Civil Code § 1794 (a), “Any buyer of consumer goods who is damaged by a failure to comply with any obligation under this chapter or under an implied or express warranty or service contract may bring an action for the recovery of damages and other legal and equitable relief.” 
 With respect to civil penalties, plaintiff relies on Civil Code § 1794 (c), which provides, in pertinent part:
“If the buyer establishes that the failure to comply was willful, the judgment may include, in addition to the amounts recovered under subdivision (a), a civil penalty which shall not exceed two times the amount of the actual damages.” 
 It is clear that questions concerning the practices engaged in by GM to monitor consumer repair histories or company data to identify if vehicles should be repurchased would be directly relevant to a claim that the failure in this instance to comply was improper, was based on established improper patterns, and was possibly willful.  
More specifically, the question concerning plaintiff’s contact with GM prior to filing suit, or lack thereof, is directly relevant to whether GM fulfilled its duties under the Song Beverly Act, as plaintiff cites Second District authority under which it is held there is no obligation under the Act for a consumer to contact the responsible party before filing suit.  Krotin v. Porsche Cars North America, Inc. (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 294, 302-303 (“the Act does not require consumers to take any affirmative steps to secure relief for the failure of a manufacturer to service or repair a vehicle to conform to the applicable warranties—other than, of course, permitting the manufacturer a reasonable opportunity to repair the vehicle.”)  
 It is clear that the questions at issue seek the discovery of discoverable material.  Hence, the questions should have been answered.  
 Defendant in opposition argues that the objection was proper, as the questions were outside the scope and purview for which the PMQ witness was ordered to testify, but concern GM’s policies and procedures, and that the requested information does not relate to the claims, defense, and issues in this case so is not subject to discovery. 
 As to the issue of discoverability, as discussed above, the court finds there is no question that the deposition questions at issue seek discoverable information, and any objection or argument on this ground is rejected. Such an objection certainly did not warrant instructions not to answer the questions. As set forth above, under the Los Angeles County Local Rules Guidelines for Civility in Litigation, “Counsel should not direct a deponent to refuse to answer questions unless they seek privileged information or are manifestly irrelevant or calculated to harass.”  The questions here are not “manifestly irrelevant.”    
 With respect to the argument that the questions are beyond the scope of the deposition notice, the First Amended Notice of Deposition includes six categories of matters on which the deponent is to be examined, including:
“1. Questions relating to why YOU did not repurchase or replace the SUBJECT VEHICLE prior to the date Plaintiffs’ lawsuit was filed….
5. Questions relating to any affirmative steps taken by YOU to determine if the SUBJECT VEHICLE qualified for repurchase or replacement prior to the date Plaintiffs’ lawsuit was filed.”
[Ex. 3, Depo. Notice, Ex. A] 
 Defendant argues that all categories are limited to plaintiff’s vehicle, and that general discussions concerning policies and procedures do not fall within the notice. 
 The matters stated are broad enough to encompass the information sought in the deposition, as information concerning what information was used or available to make the determination concerning the qualification for repurchase would have informed this particular transaction.  Therefore, plaintiff is entitled to ask questions pertinent to the categories and facts concerning what is done in the situation.  In any case, the discovery of facts concerning how determinations are made in general or policies and procedures employed to make these decisions are fairly encompassed by the matters noticed.  This court does not consider a PMQ deposition notice a rigid script for the conduct of a deposition.  Under CCP section 2025.230, with respect to the deposition of a person most knowledgeable: 
“If the deponent named is not a natural person, the deposition notice shall describe with reasonable particularity the matters on which examination is requested.  In that event the deponent shall designate and produce at deposition those of its officers, directors, managing agents, employees, or agents who are most qualified to testify on its behalf as to those matters to the extent of any information known or reasonably available to the deponent.”
Defendant argues in the opposition that the questions relate to GM’s policies and procedures generally, and that this information is not within the control or expertise of the deponent, as GM designated its PMQ to testify as to matters related to plaintiff’s vehicle, not GM’s repurchase or replacement policies or procedures, and GM’s witness likely would not have been able to provide accurate answers to the questions.   
If it is true that the information sought is outside the scope of the responsibilities and expertise of the witness, the witness should be permitted to answer the question, explain that it is outside his responsibilities, or area of expertise, and any information reasonably available to him.  At that point, the examiner should be permitted to explore why the witness does not know the answer, particularly with respect to the evaluation of plaintiff’s vehicle, as well as who or what department within defendant’s corporate structure would be likely to have that information.  Plaintiff notes in the moving papers that the PMQ who appeared testified that he has been employed with GM for 24 years, serves as a senior technical expert, and has also served as an expert in litigation.  [Thompson Depo. Transcript, Ex. 4, pp. 13, 15].  Under the circumstances, plaintiff should have at the very least been permitted to explore why this witness was not qualified by his position, experience, or expertise to answer the subject questions. This information is very basic discovery which should have been permitted to go forward without the interference of instructions not to answer the questions.  
The motion accordingly is granted, and the witness ordered to answer these questions. 
Under CCP §2025.480:
“(e) If the court determines that the answer or production sought is subject to discovery, it shall order that the answer be given, or the production be made on the resumption of the deposition.” 
Such an order is made here.
Sanctions
 Plaintiff seeks sanctions for the expense of having to prepare and pursue this motion.   
 Under CCP § 2025.480 (j):
“(j) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel an answer or production, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”
The burden is on the party subject to sanctions to show substantial justification or injustice.  Mattco Forge, Inc. v. Arthur Young & Co. (1990, 2nd Dist.) 223 Cal.App.3d 1429, 1436. 
 Here, defendant has unsuccessfully opposed the motion.  Defendant argues that it was substantially justified in designating and presenting its PMQ to testify as to the categories in plaintiff’s deposition notice and declining to answer questions that were outside the scope of the categories in the deposition notice and not relevant to plaintiff’s claims in this case.  As discussed above, these objections are without merit, and certainly were not proper grounds for instructing the witness not to answer the subject questions.  Defendant’s conduct was not substantially justified but fell outside of long recognized and observed protocols for conducting depositions and necessitated this motion.    
 Sanctions are awarded. 
The sanctions requested in the notice and declaration are $3,150.00.  The declaration breakdown by hours actually supports sanctions in a total sum of $3,675.00, but the court will award only the amount which was formally noticed. The motion and separate statement are thorough, and the expenses associated with the motion are reasonable.  Therefore, sanctions are awarded in the full noticed amount of $3,150.00 as requested. 
RULING:
Plaintiff Keith Fearnside’s Motion to Compel Testimony at Deposition is GRANTED.   
The deponent, Brian Thompson, General Motors LLC’s Person Most Qualified, is ordered to give answers to the subject questions and reasonable follow-up questions on the resumption of the deposition, to take place before October 4, 2024.  Objections may be interposed, if appropriate, and will be preserved, but the witness is not to be instructed not to answer.    
Monetary sanctions requested by moving party:  Utilizing a lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is $3,150.00 (7.0 hours @ $525/hour) (7 hours requested) [Amount Requested in Notice $3,150.00], which sum is to be awarded in favor of plaintiff Keith Fearnside and against defendant General Motors LLC, payable within 30 days.  CCP § 2025.480 (j).
DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE 
AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCES
Please make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. 
If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative.





















































