 Case Number:  BC665258    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – central district
Department
53
 
 




MADELINE
  MOORE,
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
DENNIS P. RILEY

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


BC665258




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


May
   22, 2024




 


 




             


 




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
 
mOTIONs in limine  
 



 
            The court rules on plaintiff’s, defendants’,
and cross-complainant’s motions in limine as follows.  
Plaintiff’s Motion in Limine No. 1
            The court denies plaintiff’s motion
in limine no. 1.
Plaintiff’s Motion in Limine No. 2
            Plaintiff has withdrawn plaintiff’s
motion in limine no. 2.
Plaintiff’s Motion in Limine No. 3
            The court grants plaintiff’s motion
in limine no. 3 because (1) evidence concerning any eviction proceedings
brought by plaintiff with respect to tenants in properties she owned is not
relevant (Evid. Code, § 350), and (2) the court exercises its discretion to
exclude such evidence because its probative value is substantially outweighed
by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of
time and (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the
issues, or of misleading the jury (Evid. Code, § 352).
The court orders that defendants shall not make reference to, or
introduce evidence of, any eviction proceedings brought by plaintiff with
respect to tenants in properties she owned.
Plaintiff’s Motion in Limine No. 4
            The court grants plaintiff’s motion
in limine no. 4 because (1) evidence concerning any disputes, including billing
disputes, that plaintiff may have had with attorneys other than defendants
Dennis P. Riley and Mesisca, Riley & Kreitenberg is not relevant (Evid.
Code, § 350), and (2) the court exercises its discretion to exclude such
evidence because its probative value is substantially outweighed by the
probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time
and (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues,
or of misleading the jury (Evid. Code, § 352).
The court orders that defendants shall not make reference to, or
introduce evidence of, any disputes, including billing disputes, that plaintiff
may have had with attorneys other than defendants Dennis P. Riley and Mesisca,
Riley & Kreitenberg.    
Plaintiff’s Motion in Limine No. 5
            The court grants plaintiff’s motion
in limine no. 5 because (1) evidence concerning plaintiff’s probable hiding of
assets is not relevant (Evid. Code, § 350), and (2) the court exercises its
discretion to exclude such evidence because its probative value is
substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a)
necessitate undue consumption of time and (b) create substantial danger of
undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of misleading the jury (Evid.
Code, § 352).
The court orders that defendants shall not make reference to, or
introduce evidence of, plaintiff’s probable hiding of assets.  If defendants seek to introduce into evidence
Richard Carsel’s June 30, 2016 email to Roger Frederickson, the following
sentence shall be redacted from that exhibit: 
“And she will probably be hiding assets.”  
Plaintiff’s Motion in Limine No. 6
            The court denies plaintiff’s motion
in limine no. 6.
Plaintiff’s Motion in Limine No. 7
            The court denies plaintiff’s motion
in limine no. 7.
 
 
Plaintiff’s Motion in Limine No. 8
            The court denies plaintiff’s motion
in limine no. 8.
“‘The interpretation of a contract involves “a two-step process: First
the court provisionally receives (without actually admitting) all credible
evidence concerning the parties’ intentions to determine ‘ambiguity,’ i.e.,
whether the language is ‘reasonably susceptible’ to the interpretation urged by
a party.  If in light of the extrinsic
evidence the court decides the language is ‘reasonably susceptible’ to the
interpretation urged, the extrinsic evidence is then admitted to aid in the
second step – interpreting the contract. 
[Citation.]”  [Citation.]’”  (Brown v. Goldstein (2019) 34
Cal.App.5th 418, 432-433 [internal citations omitted].)  “‘When there is no material conflict in the
extrinsic evidence, the trial court interprets the contract as a matter of
law.’”  (Id. at p. 433.)  However, “contract construction does not
always present a question of law. 
‘Interpretation of a written instrument becomes solely a judicial
function only when it is based on the words of the instrument alone, when there
is no conflict in the extrinsic evidence, or when a determination was made
based on incompetent evidence. 
[Citation.]  But when . . .
ascertaining the intent of the parties at the time the contract was executed
depends on the credibility of extrinsic evidence, that credibility
determination and interpretation of the contract are questions of fact that may
properly be resolved by the jury [citation].” 
(Coyne v. De Leo (2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 801, 822, quoting City
of Hope National Medical Center v. Greentech, Inc. (2008) 43 Cal.4th 375,
395 [internal citations omitted].)  
Plaintiff’s Motion in Limine No. 9
            The court grants plaintiff’s motion
in limine no. 9 because (1) evidence concerning any disputes plaintiff may have
had with the billing by the experts retained for her in the underlying
litigation is not relevant (Evid. Code, § 350), and (2) the court exercises its
discretion to exclude such evidence because its probative value is
substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a)
necessitate undue consumption of time and (b) create substantial danger of
undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of misleading the jury (Evid.
Code, § 352).
The court orders that defendants shall not make reference to, or
introduce evidence of, any disputes plaintiff may have had with the billing by
the experts retained for her in the underlying litigation.
Plaintiff’s Motion in Limine No. 10
            The court grants plaintiff’s motion
in limine no. 10 because (1) evidence of the claims brought in this action by
plaintiff against former defendants Roger B. Frederickson and Frederickson Law
and David S. Hamilton and their cross-claims against plaintiff and attorney
Richard Carsel and his firms, and the settlements thereof is not relevant
(Evid. Code, § 350), and (2) the court exercises its discretion to exclude such
evidence because its probative value is substantially outweighed by the
probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time
and (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues,
or of misleading the jury (Evid. Code, § 352).
The court orders that defendants shall not make reference to, or
introduce evidence of, the claims brought in this action by plaintiff against
former defendants Roger B. Frederickson and Frederickson Law and David S.
Hamilton and their cross-claims against plaintiff and attorney Richard Carsel
and his firms, and the settlements thereof.
Plaintiff’s Motion in Limine No. 11
            The court denies plaintiff’s motion
in limine no. 11.
Plaintiff’s Motion in Limine No. 12
            The court denies plaintiff’s motion
in limine no. 12 because it is not accompanied by a declaration that includes
specific identification of the matter that plaintiff contends to be
inadmissible and should be excluded (Los Angeles County Court Rules, Rule
3.57(a)(1)).
Plaintiff’s Motion in Limine No. 13
            The court denies plaintiff’s motion
in limine no. 13.
Plaintiff’s Motion in Limine No. 14
            Plaintiff has withdrawn plaintiff’s
motion in limine no. 14.
 
 
Plaintiff’s Motion in Limine No. 15
            Plaintiff’s motion in limine no. 15
has been resolved by agreement of the parties that defendants will not offer
any evidence of any bankruptcy proceedings filed by plaintiff or by any company
which plaintiff owned.  
Plaintiff’s Motion in Limine No. 16
The court grants plaintiff’s motion in limine no. 16 to preclude defendants’
expert witness Peter Wrobel from offering any opinion testimony as to the
standard of care of accountant Donald Lucove in the underlying case because that
subject is not described in defendants’ expert witness declaration (attached to
defendants’ designation of expert witnesses, dated November 30, 2023).  
The exchange of information concerning expert witnesses shall include
a declaration that contains, among other things, “[a] brief narrative statement
of the general substance of the testimony that the expert is expected to
give.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.260,
subd. (c)(2).)  “It is well settled that
an expert may be precluded from testifying at trial on a subject that was not
described in his expert witness declaration. [Citation.]”  (DePalma v. Rodriguez (2007) 151
Cal.App.4th 159, 164; Bonds v. Roy (1999) 20 Cal.4th
140, 142 [concluding that a trial court may preclude an expert witness from
testifying at trial on a subject whose general substance was not previously
described in an expert witness declaration].)
The court orders that defendants’ expert witness Peter Wrobel is
precluded from offering any opinion testimony as to the standard of care of
accountant Donald Lucove in the underlying case.         
Plaintiff’s Motion in Limine No. 17
The court denies plaintiff’s
motion in limine no. 17, without prejudice to plaintiff’s renewing her request
that the court interpret the terms of the fee agreements, if appropriate under
the rules set forth below, after the presentation of evidence is completed. 
“‘The interpretation of a contract involves “a two-step process: First
the court provisionally receives (without actually admitting) all credible
evidence concerning the parties’ intentions to determine ‘ambiguity,’ i.e.,
whether the language is ‘reasonably susceptible’ to the interpretation urged by
a party.  If in light of the extrinsic
evidence the court decides the language is ‘reasonably susceptible’ to the
interpretation urged, the extrinsic evidence is then admitted to aid in the
second step – interpreting the contract. 
[Citation.]”  [Citation.]’”  (Brown, supra, 34 Cal.App.5th
at pp.  432-433 [internal citations
omitted].)  “‘When there is no material
conflict in the extrinsic evidence, the trial court interprets the contract as
a matter of law.’”  (Id. at p.
433.)  However, “contract construction
does not always present a question of law. 
‘Interpretation of a written instrument becomes solely a judicial
function only when it is based on the words of the instrument alone, when there
is no conflict in the extrinsic evidence, or when a determination was made
based on incompetent evidence. 
[Citation.]  But when . . .
ascertaining the intent of the parties at the time the contract was executed
depends on the credibility of extrinsic evidence, that credibility
determination and interpretation of the contract are questions of fact that may
properly be resolved by the jury [citation].” 
(Coyne, supra, 26 Cal.App.5th at p. 822, quoting City
of Hope National Medical Center, supra, 43 Cal.4th at p. 395 [internal
citations omitted].)  
Defendants’
Motion in Limine No. 1

The court denies defendants’ motion in limine no. 1.
Plaintiff’s first cause of action is based, in part, on plaintiff’s
allegation that defendants breached their duty of care by defendants’ failure
to properly prepare Wallace for his deposition. 
(First Amended Complaint, filed January 8, 2018, ¶ 26, p. 7:13-17.)  
Defendants’ Motion in Limine No. 2

The court denies defendants’ motion in limine no. 2.
Defendant/cross-complainant’s cross-complaint appears to seek to
recover attorney’s fees for services that defendant/cross-complainant performed
and billed for in Moore v. Smith (Los Angeles Superior Court Case No.
LC101816).  (Cross-Complaint, filed April
16, 2018, Ex. 4.)  
Defendants’ Motion in Limine No. 3
The court grants defendants’ motion in limine no. 3 because the expert
witness report and deposition testimony of Dante Puccinelli in the underlying
case are inadmissible in this case since they are hearsay and plaintiff has not
established that the exception to the hearsay rule for former testimony set
forth in Evidence Code section 1292 applies. 

The court orders that plaintiff shall not introduce evidence of the
expert witness report and deposition testimony of Dante Puccinelli in the
underlying case.  
Defendants’ Motion in Limine No. 4
The court grants defendants’ motion in limine no. 4.
Plaintiff does not oppose motion in limine no. 4.  Plaintiff contends that defendants’ motion is
moot because, after defendants filed their motion, plaintiff served a new
designation of experts which no longer sets forth the names of David Hamilton, Dante Puccinelli, and Richard Carsel as
persons whose expert opinions plaintiff expects to offer in evidence at the
trial.  But plaintiff has not attached a
copy of plaintiff’s new designation of experts to her opposition to the motion.  
The court orders that plaintiff shall not introduce evidence of any expert
witness opinion testimony from David Hamilton, Dante Puccinelli, and Richard
Carsel in this action.  
Defendants’ Motion in Limine No. 5  
The court grants defendants’ motion in limine no. 5 because the one-page
memorandum from Roger B. Frederickson to “File,” dated July 14, 2016, is
inadmissible since it is hearsay.    
The court orders that plaintiff shall not make reference to, or
introduce evidence of, the one-page memorandum from Roger B. Frederickson to
“File,” dated July 14, 2016.  
Defendants’ Motion in Limine No. 6
The court denies defendants’ motion in limine no. 6.
Defendants’ Motion in Limine No. 7
The court denies defendants’ motion in limine no. 7 because it is not
accompanied by a declaration that includes specific identification of the
matter that defendants contend to be inadmissible and should be excluded (Los
Angeles County Court rules, 3.57, subd. (a)(1)), without prejudice to
Defendants’ objecting to specific items of evidence or testimony at trial.
Defendants’ Motion in Limine No. 8
The court grants defendants’
motion in limine no. 8.  
            The
court acknowledges that “[t]estimony in the form of an opinion that is
otherwise admissible is not objectionable because it embraces the ultimate
issue to be decided by the trier of fact.”  (Evid. Code,
§ 805.)  However, “even if an expert opinion does not embrace an
issue of law, it is not admissible if it invades the province of the jury to
decide a case.  ‘Undoubtedly there is a kind of statement by the witness
which amounts to no more than an expression of his general belief as to how the
case should be decided . . . .  There is no necessity for this kind of
evidence; to receive it would tend to suggest that the judge and jury may shift
responsibility for decision to the witnesses; and in any event it is wholly
without value to the trier of fact in reaching a decision.’”  (Piscitelli
v. Friedenberg (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 953, 972 [internal citation
omitted].)  Thus, “experts may not be called upon to testify as to what
the reasonable trier of fact in the underlying case would have done” because to
do so “invades the jury’s function.”  (Blanks v. Seyfarth Shaw LLP (2009)
171 Cal.App.4th 336, 376, n. 25; Piscitelli, supra, 87
Cal.App.4th at p. 974 [finding that the trial court improperly shifted the
jury’s responsibility to decide issue of causation by permitting the
plaintiff’s expert “to reach the ultimate question of whether” the plaintiff’s
underlying claim would have been successful].)  Moreover, plaintiff has
not established an exception to this rule on the ground that the issues
presented in this action are so complex as to require expert testimony.  (O’Shea
v. Lindenberg (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 228, 239.)  
The court orders that
plaintiff’s experts are precluded from offering any opinion testimony on the
issue of causation, including but not limited to whether plaintiff would have
prevailed in the underlying case and whether, but for defendants’ negligence, a
better result would have been obtained in the underlying case. 
Defendants’ Motion in Limine No. 9
The court denies defendants’ motion in limine no. 9.
Defendants’ Motion in Limine No. 10
The court denies defendants’ motion in limine no. 10.
Defendants’ Motion in Limine No. 11
The court denies defendants’ motion in limine no. 11.
Defendants’ Motion in Limine No. 12
The court denies defendants’ motion in limine no. 12 because defendants
have not met their burden to establish that the court should determine whether expert
witness Alan Wallace would have been excluded from testifying as an expert
witness at the trial in the underlying case before any other evidence is
admitted at trial in this case.    
Defendants’ Motion in Limine No. 13
The court denies defendants’ motion in limine no. 13.
Defendant/cross-complainant’s cross-complaint appears to seek to
recover attorney’s fees for services that defendant/cross-complainant performed
and billed for in Moore v. Smith (Los Angeles Superior Court Case No.
LC101816).  (Cross-Complaint, filed April
16, 2018, Ex. 4.)
Defendants’ Motion in Limine No. 14
The court grants defendants’ motion in limine no. 14 because (1) expert
opinion testimony of plaintiff’s expert witness Marc Sallus regarding the
failure to designate expert real estate appraisers to appraise the value of the
Moore Family Trust is not relevant (Evid. Code, § 350), and (2) the court
exercises its discretion to exclude such evidence because its probative value
is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a)
necessitate undue consumption of time and (b) create substantial danger of
undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of misleading the jury (Evid.
Code, § 352).
The court orders that plaintiff shall not make reference to, or
introduce evidence of, expert opinion testimony of plaintiff’s expert witness
Marc Sallus regarding the failure to designate expert real estate appraisers to
appraise the value of the Moore Family Trust. 

Defendants’ Motion in Limine No. 15
The court grants defendants’ motion in limine no. 15 because (1) expert
opinion testimony of plaintiff’s expert witness Marc Sallus that defendants
were negligent for having designated accountant Dante Puccinelli because
Puccinelli was unqualified is not relevant (Evid. Code, § 350), and (2) the
court exercises its discretion to exclude such evidence because its probative
value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will
(a) necessitate undue consumption of time and (b) create substantial danger of
undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of misleading the jury (Evid.
Code, § 352).
The court orders that plaintiff shall not make reference to, or
introduce evidence of, expert opinion testimony of plaintiff’s expert witness
Marc Sallus that defendants were negligent for having designated accountant
Dante Puccinelli because Puccinelli was unqualified.  
Defendants’ Motion in Limine No. 16
The court grants defendants’ motion in limine no. 16 to exclude the
opinions of attorney Marshall Oldman on the standard of care of accountant Donald
Lucove because Oldman does not have special knowledge, skill, experience,
training, or education sufficient to qualify him as an expert on the subject to
which his testimony relates.  (Evid.
Code, § 720.)  
The court orders that plaintiff shall not make reference to, or
introduce evidence of, the opinions of attorney Marshall Oldman on the standard
of care of accountant Donald Lucove.   
Defendants’ Motion in Limine No. 17
The court grants defendants’
motion in limine no. 17 because the court finds that the issue of whether
expert Alan Wallace should have been excluded as an expert witness in the
underlying case is a question of law for the court to decide.  (Piscitelli,
supra, 87 Cal.App.4th at p. 970 [“[I]n legal malpractice cases, whether
a court or jury decides the underlying case-within-a-case does not turn on the
identity or expertise of the trier of fact, but whether the issues are
predominately questions of fact or law”]; Lombardo v. Huysentruyt (2001)
91 Cal.App.4th 656, 668, n. 2 [noting that, “if it should become necessary to
determine whether the probate court’s ruling was correct or incorrect, the
responsibility to resolve this legal question would fall to the trial court and
not to the jury”].) 
The court orders that
plaintiff’s expert witness Marc Sallus is precluded from offering any opinion
testimony as to whether Alan Wallace should have been excluded as an expert
witness in the underlying case.
Defendants’ Motion in Limine No. 18
The court denies defendants’ motion in limine no. 18.
 
Defendants’ Motion in Limine No. 19
The court denies defendants’ motion in limine no. 19.
Defendants’ Motion in Limine No. 20
The court denies defendants’ motion in limine no. 20.
Cross-Complainant’s Motion in Limine No.
1
The court grants in part and
denies in part cross-complainant’s motion in limine no. 1 as follows.
The court grants
cross-complainant’s motion in limine no. 1 to exclude evidence that contradicts
the admissions made by cross-defendant Madeline Moore, as trustee of the Moore
Family Trust dated June 1, 1983, in response to cross-complainant Dennis P. Riley’s
Requests for Admission Nos. 1, 8, 9, 11, 13, 15, and 16. 
The court denies
cross-complainant’s motion in limine no. 1 to exclude evidence that contradicts
the admission made by cross-defendant Madeline Moore, as trustee of the Moore
Family Trust dated June 1, 1983, in response to cross-complainant Dennis P. Riley’s
Request for Admission No. 2 because Moore did not admit that request for
admission.  (Mot., p. 4:21-24 [identifying request no. 2]; Riley Decl.,
Ex. 3, p. 3:21-4:8 [denying Request for Admission No. 2].) 
The court grants
cross-complainant’s motion in limine no. 1 to exclude evidence that contradicts
the admissions made by cross-defendant Madeline Moore, as an individual, in
response to cross-complainant’s Dennis P. Riley’s Requests for Admission Nos. 3,
4, 8, 9, 11, 13, 15, and 16.
The court denies
cross-complainant’s motion in limine no. 1 to exclude evidence that contradicts
the admission made by cross-defendant Madeline Moore, as an individual, in
response to cross-complainant Dennis P. Riley’s Request for Admission No. 2
because Moore did not admit that request for admission.  (Mot., p. 5:25-27
[identifying request no. 2]; Riley Decl., Ex. 4, pp. 3:21-4:8 [denying Request
for Admission No. 2].) 
The court denies
cross-complainant’s motion in limine no. 1 to preclude cross-defendant from
introducing any documents, evidence, or testimony that cross-defendant Madeline
Moore, as trustee of the Moore Family Trust dated June 1, 1983 and as an
individual, disputed any billing statement at issue. 
  
IT
IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:  May 22, 2024
 
 
_____________________________
Robert B. Broadbelt III
Judge of the Superior Court