 Case Number:  23LBCV00480    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Rebeca Maehara filed
this action against Defendants, Steven Fukuto, Michael D. Redlew, and Berth 55
Landing Long Beach, Inc. for breach of contract, breach of guarantee, and
ejectment.  The crux of the complaint is
that the entity defendant is in breach of a commercial rental agreement, the
individual defendants are in breach of a personal guarantee, and the defendants
must vacate the property and pay damages. 
    
 
2.     Motion
for Summary Judgment/Adjudication 

Burdens on Summary Judgment

Summary judgment is proper “if all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  Where a defendant seeks summary judgment or
adjudication, he must show that either “one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is
a complete defense to that cause of action.” 
(Id. at §437c(o)(2).)  A defendant
may satisfy this burden by showing that the claim “cannot be established”
because of the lack of evidence on some essential element of the claim.  (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31
Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)  Once the
defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a
“triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or defense thereto.”  (Ibid.)  
 
The moving party bears the initial
burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable
issues of material fact.  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment must
show either (1) that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be
established or (2) that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant may discharge this burden by
furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required facts or (2)
discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to establish an
essential element of the plaintiff's case. If a defendant chooses the latter
option he or she must present evidence “and not simply point out that plaintiff
does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence….” Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at 865-66,
[A] defendant may simply show the
plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action “by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.” (Id. at p. 854.)  Thus,
rather than affirmatively disproving or negating an element (e.g., causation),
a defendant moving for summary judgment has the option of presenting evidence
reflecting the plaintiff does not possess evidence to prove that element. “The
defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an
element of the plaintiff's cause of action. The defendant may also present
evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery
to the effect that he has discovered nothing” to support an essential element
of his case. (Aguilar, supra, at p. 855.) Under the latter approach, a
defendant's initial evidentiary showing may “consist of the deposition
testimony of the plaintiff's witnesses, the plaintiff's factually devoid
discovery responses, or admissions by the plaintiff in deposition or in
response to requests for admission that he or she has not discovered anything
that supports an essential element of the cause of action.” (Lona v. Citibank,
N.A., supra, 202 Cal.App.4th at p. 110.) 
In other words, a defendant may show the plaintiff does not possess
evidence to support an element of the cause of action by means of presenting
the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses from which an absence of
evidence may be reasonably inferred. (Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Construction Co.
(1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 64, 83.)
 
Thus, a moving defendant has two
means by which to shift the burden of proof under the summary judgment statute:
“The defendant may rely upon factually insufficient discovery responses by the
plaintiff to show that the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of
the cause of action sued upon. [Citation.] [Or a]lternatively, the defendant
may utilize the tried and true technique of negating (‘disproving’) an
essential element of the plaintiff's cause of action.” (Brantly v. Pisaro
(1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1591, 1598.)  Leyva
v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1095, 1103.
 
Until the moving defendant has
discharged its burden of proof, the opposing plaintiff has no burden to come
forward with any evidence. Once the moving defendant has discharged its burden
as to a particular cause of action, however, the plaintiff may defeat the
motion by producing evidence showing that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p)(2).)  On a motion for summary judgment, the moving
party's supporting documents are strictly construed and those of his opponent
liberally construed, and doubts as to the propriety of summary judgment should
be resolved against granting the motion. 
(D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.) 

Analysis

While the parties make numerous
arguments concerning the statute of limitations, statute of frauds, etc., the
motion for summary judgment must be denied because fact 3 in Defendants’
separate statement is disputed. 
Defendants, at page 6, lines 10-15 of their moving points and
authorities, state, “Berth 55 does not dispute that it is obligated to pay rent
for the month of January, February and half of March, 2023 and has calculated
the rent due for that period as being $13,135.00 (Decl. Fukuto para 24; UMF 24).
However, Plaintiffs are still in possession of the $20,000.00 deposit paid by
defendant in 1998 (Decl. Fukuto para 3, 25; UMF 3; 24; Ex 1), and therefore
nothing further is due to Plaintiff under the terms of the oral agreement
(Decl. Fukuto para 25; UMF 3, 24, 25; Ex 1).” 

 
Defendants’ fact 3 in their
separate statement purports to establish Defendants paid the $20,000
deposit.  Plaintiff, however, disputes
this fact.  She declares they did not do
so, and she attaches various bounced check documents showing the $20,000 was
not received.  She has raised a triable
issue of material fact, and therefore the motion must be denied.
 

Summary Adjudication

Defendants’ notice of motion
indicates Defendants seek summary adjudication of various issues.  Their separate statement, however, fails to
comply with CRC 3.1350(b) which requires each issue to be adjudicated to be set
forth “verbatim” in the notice of motion and separate statement.  Notably, Defendants’ separate statement does
not break down the issues for adjudication in any way.  The alternative motion for summary
adjudication is therefore also denied.
 

Final Note

Defendants do not seek summary
adjudication of the ejectment cause of action in their notice of motion.  They do, however, argue the issue is moot,
and Plaintiff concedes as much in opposition to the motion.  The Court cannot adjudicate the issue because
the issue is not noticed for adjudication, but notes for the record that the
parties agree the cause of action is moot.
 
Defendants are ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   