 Case Number:  21STCV42296    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Jane Doe filed this
action against Defendants, LBUSD, Cabrillo High School, John Doe, and Does 1-50
for damages arising out of childhood sexual abuse.  Plaintiff filed her complaint on 11/17/21.  LBUSD filed a demurrer and motion to strike
on 7/05/23, which resulted in a court order limiting the causes of action pled
in the complaint and striking Cabrillo High School as a defendant from the
action.  LBUSD filed an answer to the
complaint, with the subject causes of action and allegations stricken, on
12/20/23.    
 
2.     Prior
Hearing
The Court previously heard
Defendant’s motion to compel responses to SROGs, set three, on 5/14/24.  Plaintiff opposed the motion, contending she
was incarcerated and scheduled to be released soon, and asking that the Court
continue the hearing on the motion until she was released.  The Court continued the hearing on the
motion, and also scheduled the hearing on a motion to compel further responses
to SROGs, set two and a motion to compel deposition for the same time.  
 
3.     Current
Status of Discovery Dispute
The parties have scheduled
Plaintiff’s deposition for 8/02/24.  It
appears all issues relating to SROGs, set two, are resolved.  Plaintiff served further responses to SROGs,
set three, but Defendant contends her responses to SROGs 37, 38, and 41 remain
deficient.
 
Defendant has a motion for stay of
proceedings scheduled for 9/12/24.  The
hearing on today’s motions is continued to 9/12/24.  The Court has reviewed Plaintiff’s
supplemental responses to SROGs 37, 38, and 41, and they appear to remain
deficient.  The parties must continue to
work together to resolve any discovery issues without the need for a court
order.  If the parties are able to
resolve their issues, they must take the motions off calendar prior to
9/12/24.  If they are unable to do so,
they must each file declarations and briefs re: any outstanding issues at least
two weeks prior to the continued hearing date. 

 
The Court understands sanctions are
at issue.  If all other issues are
resolved but Defendant wishes to pursue sanctions, the parties must file briefs
and declaration at least two weeks prior to the continued hearing date and the
Court will consider the issue of sanctions at that time.  
 
LBUSD is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   