 Case Number:  22LBCV00731    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  S27 This Court has, in the past six to
nine months, seen a dramatic increase in motions to compel further responses
and motions to compel PMK depositions in lemon law cases.  Similar issues are presented on all of the motions,
and the attorneys for both parties fail and refuse to meet and confer in good
faith in light of this Court’s prior rulings in order to resolve issues
relating to each case.  The Court’s
docket has been inundated with these motions, with discovery motions in lemon
law cases often taking up more than five motion hearing slots in a week.  
 
The Court finds Counsel, with the
assistance of this Court’s prior rulings, can easily resolve the issues on
these discovery motions.  The Court has
ruled on discovery motions relating to PMK depositions involving the instant
defendant, Ford Motor Company, in the following cases (among others):
22LBCV00456
22LBCV00761
 
The Court has read and considered
Volkswagenwerk Aktiengesellschaft v. Superior Court (1981) 122 Cal.App.3d 326,
331-334, wherein the Court of Appeals affirmed the trial court’s award of
sanctions against BOTH attorneys on the case, which sanctions were ordered
payable to the other party directly.  The
Court finds the attorneys in these lemon law cases are acting in a way that
does not benefit their clients, constantly incurring attorneys’ fees in
connection with discovery disputes when they are already aware of how the Court
will rule on the motions.  
 
The Court notes that these parties
have a hearing on a summary judgment motion set for 9/05/24.  The hearing on this motion is continued to 9/05/24,
to be heard concurrently with the summary judgment motion.  The Court expects Counsel to meet and confer,
with this Court’s prior rulings in mind (rulings by other trial courts are not
relevant and should not be used in the meet and confer discussion).  If Counsel are unable to resolve all of their
issues prior to the continued hearing on the motion, they must file a joint
statement of items that remain in dispute. 
The joint statement must list each discovery item in dispute, the most
current response to that item, and each party’s statement of why a further
response should or should not be ordered. 
The joint statement must make arguments relevant only to the item in
dispute, not to the other items, so the Court can easily and quickly rule on
each item.  The joint statement is due at
least two weeks prior to the continued hearing date.
 
If the parties resolve their
issues, they must take the motion off calendar using the online reservation
system.  If they are unable to resolve
their issues, they must also file short (no more than five pages) briefs and
declarations detailing their efforts to meet and confer and making any argument
against imposition of sanctions that they wish to articulate.  The briefs and declarations are also due at
least two weeks prior to the continued hearing date.  
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.