  Case Number:  21STCV19312    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiffs, Claudia and Josue
Morales filed 21STCV19312 against Defendants, Long Beach Memorial Medical
Center, Memorial Health Services, Praveen R. Jonnala, M.D., and Ali Khoynezhad,
M.D., PhD for negligence, hospital negligence, and loss of consortium.  Plaintiff added Ivana Radeva, M.D. as Doe 1
and California Anesthesia Associates Medical Group, Inc. as Doe 5.  The complaint arises out of Defendants’ care
and treatment of Claudia Morales for cardiothoracic surgery.  
 
The operative complaint in
21STCV19312 is the Second Amended Complaint, which includes causes of action
for negligence, hospital negligence, loss of consortium, corporate negligence,
fraud by concealment, breach of fiduciary duty, and willful and wanton
misconduct.  Notably, the Court sustained
a demurrer to the battery cause of action in the FAC without leave to amend.
 
In April of 2023, Plaintiff
died.  On 3/06/24, her estate and heirs
filed 24LBCV00458.  The wrongful
death/survival complaint includes causes of action for wrongful death, negligence,
corporate negligence, fraud, breach of fiduciary duty, willful and wanton
misconduct, battery, and “survival action.” 

 
On 6/06/24, the Court consolidated
the two actions for all purposes.  
 
2.     Demurrer
a.     Initial Note
There are two demurrers on calendar
today.  One is brought by MemorialCare
Medical Group and Dr. Khoynezhad.  The
other is brought by LBMMC and Memorial Health Services.  The two demurrers present the same legal
issues, and will be considered together. 

 
b.    Legal
Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP §
430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for
relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP
§ 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP
§430.41(a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a
declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 
c.     Request for Judicial Notice
Defendants seek judicial notice of
various documents filed in 21STCV19312. 
The RJN is granted.
 
d.     Evidentiary Objections
Defendants correctly note that
Plaintiffs have improperly attempted to introduce evidence, by way of an
attorney declaration, in opposition to the demurrers.  Defendants’ objections are sustained.  The Court has not considered the declaration
in ruling on the demurrers.
 
e.     Parties’ Positions 
Defendants argue (a) there is
another action pending between the parties with identical causes of action, (b)
the cause of action for battery is barred by the doctrines of collateral
estoppel and res judicata, (c) all claims other than wrongful death are barred
by the statute of limitations.  
 
Plaintiffs oppose the motion.  They argue (a) their battery claim in the new
case is based on a different set of facts and therefore not barred by res
judicata or collateral estoppel, (b) all claims for wrongful death are timely
asserted under all theories, and (c) because Decedent’s claims for damages
survive her death, Plaintiffs need to be able to assert those claims in one of
the two consolidated complaints or need to amend to state those claims.  
 
Defendants, in reply, argue the
battery claim is barred because it is based on the same primary right
previously asserted, and Plaintiffs have lost the right to litigate the
claim.  They argue only the wrongful
death and loss of consortium claims are properly brought alongside the already
pending survival claims.  
 
f.      Analysis
First and foremost, it is clear
that an amended complaint must be filed. 
Plaintiffs need to clarify, by way of an amended complaint, which
plaintiffs are asserting which causes of action against which defendants as survival
claims and as wrongful death claims.  
 
The biggest issue between the
parties is whether battery is properly pled in the new complaint.  Defendants argue the claim is barred because
it was not previously asserted.  Plaintiffs
argue the claim is entirely new and different. 
Plaintiffs argue the original battery cause of action was premised on
the theory that Defendants fraudulently concealed the fact that they were
implanting a device into Decedent that was not FDA-approved.  Plaintiffs argue the new battery cause of
action is premised on the theory that Defendants fraudulently represented that
Decedent needed surgery when, in fact, she did not need surgery at all.  
 
The Court is inclined to agree that
this is a new and different theory and was not pled in the original complaint;
it therefore cannot be the subject of a collateral estoppel or res judicata
defense, as both defenses rely on the claim having been previously litigated or
ripe for litigation.  Defendants argue
the theory “could have been pled,” but Plaintiffs contend they only learned of
the fact that the surgery was entirely unnecessary while conducting discovery
in this action and AFTER the demurrer to the FAC in the original action had
been sustained without leave to amend. 
Notably, facts showing delayed discovery are absent from the subject
complaint.  Plaintiffs must clarify this
by way of the amended complaint.  
 
The above, however, does not fully
dispose of the demurrer to the battery cause of action.  Defendants also argue that all of the causes
of action except the wrongful death cause of action pled in the new complaint are
barred by the statute of limitations. 
Notably, from a practical standpoint, this only affects the battery
cause of action, as the other causes of action “survive” and continue to be the
subject of the original complaint. 
Plaintiffs, in opposition, appear to concede they cannot pursue battery
as a survival cause of action due to the statute of limitations bar, but argue
they can pursue it as a wrongful death theory. 
See opposition, §2.2, which argues only that the statute of limitations
does not act as a bar to the wrongful death claims, and does not address the
argument that it bars the survival claims. 

 
g.     Conclusion 
To the extent Plaintiffs are
asserting a battery cause of action as a survival claim, it is barred by the
statute of limitations and the demurrer is sustained without leave to
amend.  To the extent Plaintiffs are asserting
a battery cause of action as a wrongful death claim, they must amend their
complaint to plead facts that would show they did not know or and could not
have known of their battery cause of action at the time they filed their
original complaint, such that res judicata and collateral estoppel do not
apply.  
 
Plaintiffs must also amend their
complaint to clarify which plaintiffs are asserting which claims against which
defendants and on which theory.  The
amended complaint must list each cause of action, indicate whether it is being
pled as a survival or wrongful death theory, and indicate by whom it is brought
and against whom it is brought. 
 
Plaintiffs must file their amended
complaint within ten days.  Defendants
must file a responsive pleading within the statutory time thereafter.
 
The Court notes that Co-Defendant,
Dr. White has a demurrer on calendar on 9/24/24.  The parties must meet and confer to determine
whether any issues presented by way of Dr. White’s demurrer can be resolved
through amendment.  
 
Demurring Defendants are ordered to
give notice.   
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.