  Case Number:  23STCV11440    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2023    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion for
Default of Forcible Detainer and Order for Issuance of Writ of Attachment
 
Moving Party: Plaintiff
LA Fitness
Resp. Party:    None
 
 
The Motion is DENIED. 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On May 22,
2023, Plaintiff LA Fitness filed its/their Complaint against Defendants Fitness
International LLC, Esporta, City Clubs, and Club One Fitness on a cause of
action for forcible detainer pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1160.  Plaintiff’s handwritten complaint alleges “7
trillion dollars” for emotional and mental distress.  (Complaint, p. 3.)
 
On August 21,
2023, Plaintiff filed its Motion for Default of Forcible Detainer and Order for
Issuance of Writ of Attachment (“Motion”). 
 
No opposition
or other response to the Motion has been filed. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
        The Court denies this motion for two
procedural reasons.  
 
        First, Plaintiff sues under the name “LA
Fitness.” The Complaint states that Plaintiff “was and now is [a] competent
adult”. (Complaint, ¶ 1.) However, the Court, on it own motion, takes judicial
notice of the fact there are multiple corporate entities registered with the
California Secretary of State as being “LA Fitness.” Notably, there is an “la fitness
llc” whose agent is “leah c alspaugh” [lower cases in original].  That is the same name as the individual who
signed the Complaint. (Complaint, p. 3.) 
There is also a “Leah Alspaugh, LA fitness llc,” with Leah C Alspaugh
listed as agent [capitalizations in original]. 
The initial filing date of the first LLC is 7/16/2022; the initial filing
date of the second LLC is 8/1/2022.  (See
https://bizfileonline.sos.ca.gov/search/business.)
 
 
Plaintiff must state if she or it is suing as an individual
or as a registered entity. This is important because, aside from narrow exceptions such as in small claims
court, the California Supreme Court has long held that corporations cannot
represent themselves in propria persona. (Merco Constr. Eng’rs, Inc.
v. Mun. Ct. (1978) 21 Cal.3d.724, 730.) Without this information, the Court
cannot ascertain whether this Motion is properly brought by an individual or
improperly brought by an unrepresented limited liability corporation. 
 
Second, there is
no evidence that Plaintiff has served any of the Defendants in this matter with
this Motion. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1300(a) [“Unless otherwise
ordered or specifically provided by law, all moving and supporting papers must
be served and filed in accordance with Code of Civil Procedure section 1005
and, when applicable, the statutes and rules providing for electronic filing
and service.”]; Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (c) [“Notwithstanding any other provision
of this section, all papers opposing a motion and all reply papers shall be
served by personal delivery, facsimile transmission, express mail, or other
means consistent with Sections 1010, 1011, 1012, and 1013, and reasonably
calculated to ensure delivery to the other party or parties not later than the
close of the next business day after the time the opposing papers or reply
papers, as applicable, are filed. . . .”].) Plaintiff has filed a proof of
service of summons and complaint on May 22, 2023, but it appears to the Court
that this proof of service is incomplete. 
 
Without proof
that Plaintiff has served all of the Defendants in this matter with the Motion,
the Court is unable to consider Plaintiff’s request for relief. Defendants have
a constitutional right under the federal Constitution and the California
Constitution to due process, which includes being informed of – and being given
the opportunity to oppose – any motion filed against them.
 
 
CONCLUSION
 
The
Motion is DENIED. 
 