  Case Number:  22NWCV00928    Hearing Date:   February 7, 2024    Dept:  C Tirado v. irvine
auto, et al.
CASE NO.:  22NWCV00928
HEARING:   2/7/24 @ 9:30 AM
#2
 
1.    Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses is GRANTED
in part with the limitations set forth below and DENIED in part. 
2.   
Plaintiff’s request for
sanctions is DENIED.
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
Plaintiff Paloma Tirado (Plaintiff) moves to
compel further responses to her Requests for Production (set one) and seeks
sanctions. 
Background
On
October 3, 2022, Plaintiff filed a Complaint against Defendant Volkswagen Group
of America (Defendant) for alleged violations of the Song-Beverly Act for
failure to repair or repurchase Plaintiff’s vehicle and against Irvine Auto
Retail II, Inc. (Irvine Auto) for negligent repair.
Legal
Standard
CCP
§ 2031.310 allows a party to file a motion compelling further answers to
document requests if it finds that the response is inadequate, incomplete, or
evasive, or an objection in the response is without merit or too general.  The motion shall be accompanied with a meet
and confer declaration.  (CCP §
2031.310(b).)  
Meet
and Confer
The
Court finds that the parties adequately met and conferred.
Discussion

Plaintiff seeks to compel further responses to
Requests Nos. 18, 33-41, and 45-46. Defendant initially provided documents to
Requests Nos. 33-35. Defendant stated it did not have responsive documents to
Request No. 37. Defendant objected to Requests Nos. 18, 36, 38-41 and 45-46 and
refused to produce any responsive documents. 
Defendant’s objections to Request No. 18 are
overruled, and Defendant is compelled to provide a further response. The
documents are within the scope of discovery as discovery is broad and includes
information that is admissible or reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence. (Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Sup. Ct.
(1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 223-224.) Request No. 18 seeks the Franchise
Agreement between Defendant and the dealership that sold Plaintiff the vehicle.
Defendant objected on the grounds that the Request sought information outside
the scope of discovery and privileged material and that the Request was not
reasonably particularized. First, The Request is reasonably particularized
because it is limited to the Franchise Agreement. Second, Defendant has not
made any showing as to what privileged material it contends that the Request
seeks. Finally, The Franchise Agreement between Defendant and the dealership is
reasonably calculated to lead to admissible evidence because it may contain
relevant evidence regarding the agency relationship between Defendant and the
dealership. Thus, Defendant is ordered to provide a further response to Request
No. 18.
Defendant’s responses to Requests Nos. 33-35
are code compliant because they state that Defendant shall provide responsive
documents. Requests Nos. 33-35 seek TSBs and Field Service Actions related to
similar vehicles. To the extent that Defendant has only provided a list of TSBs
and Field Service Actions, Defendant is ordered to produce the relevant TSBs
and Field Service Actions.
Defendant’s objections to Request No. 36 are
overruled, and Defendant is compelled to provide a further response. Request
No. 36 seeks the Special Service Messages related to similar vehicles.
Defendant objected on the grounds that the Request sought information outside
the scope of discovery and trade secrets and that the Request was not
reasonably particularized. First, the Request is reasonably particularized
because it is limited to the Special Service Messages. Second, the parties have
entered into a Protective Order and if Defendant believes that it is
insufficient, it should move for a protective order instead of opposing this
Motion. Finally, Special Service Messages related to similar vehicles are
reasonably calculated to lead to admissible evidence because they may contain
or lead to relevant evidence regarding the alleged defects and Defendant’s
knowledge of the defects. Thus, Defendant is ordered to provide a further
response to Request No. 36. 
Requests
Nos. 37-41 seek codes related to similar vehicles and customer complaints and
labor operations codes from 2017 to present. These requests are overbroad
because they seek information not related to Plaintiff’s vehicle. Therefore,
these requests will be limited to codes related to repairs made to Plaintiff’s
vehicle. Defendant is ordered to provide further responses to Requests Nos.
37-41 with the codes applicable to repairs made to Plaintiff’s vehicle. 
Requests
Nos. 45-46 seek documents related to similar vehicles and customer complaints.
These requests are overbroad because they seek documents related to vehicles
worldwide. Therefore, these requests will be limited repairs and customer
complaints concerning 2020 Volkswagen Tiguans sold in California. Defendant is
ordered to provide further responses to Requests Nos. 45-46 as to 2020
Volkswagen Tiguans sold in California. 
Sanctions
The court shall impose a monetary sanction
against the party who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel
further responses to interrogatories or demand for production of documents
unless the party subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or the sanction would otherwise be unjust. (CCP §§ 2030.300(d), 2031.310(h),
2033.290(d).) 
Defendant acted with substantial justification
in opposing Plaintiff’s overbroad requests and provided code compliant
responses to several requests. Thus, Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is
denied.
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses is GRANTED in
part with the limitations set forth above and DENIED in part. Defendant is
ordered to serve its responses within 30 days of this Order. Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is DENIED.
 
 