 Case Number:  23NWCV02312    Hearing Date:   February 7, 2024    Dept:  C Higgins, et al. v.
lbj healthcare, et al.
CASE NO.:  23NWCV02312
HEARING:   2/7/24 @ 10:30 AM
#11
 
1.   
Defendant’s Demurrer is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part without leave
to amend. 
2.   
Defendant’s Motion to Strike is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part with
leave to amend.
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
Defendant LBJ Healthcare Partners, Inc. (Defendant)
demurs to Plaintiffs Patrick Higgins and Laura Clark’s (collectively
Plaintiffs) Second Amended Complaint (SAC).
Background
Plaintiffs
filed the SAC in the individual capacity and as successors in interest against
Defendants LBJ Healthcare Partners, Inc., Special Service For Groups, Inc.,
Amada Enterprises, Inc., and Linda Torres for claims arising out of the death
of their daughter Nicole Lacea Higgins (Decedent) after she was admitted to
Defendants’ mental health facility by her conservator. Decedent alleged was
allowed to leave the facility and was struck by a motor vehicle. She died of
injuries from the collision. Plaintiffs allege causes of action for:
1.   
Negligence
2.   
Premises
Liability
3.   
Wrongful
Death
4.   
Negligent
Hiring
Legal
Standard
The
party against whom a complaint has been filed may object to the pleading, by
demurrer, on several grounds, including the ground that the pleading does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (CCP § 430.10(e).) A
party may demur to an entire complaint, or to any causes of action stated
therein. (CCP § 430.50(a).) “‘[A] demurrer based on an affirmative defense will
be sustained only where the face of the complaint discloses that the action is
necessarily barred by the defense.’” (McKenney v. Purepac Pharmaceutical Co.
(2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 72, 78-79.)
 
Discussion

1.   
Demurrer
First, Plaintiffs’ SAC fails to delineate which
causes of action are being brought by Plaintiffs under their capacity as
successor in interest and their individual capacity. “A cause of action that
survives the death of the person … passes to the decedent's successor in
interest … and an action may be commenced by the decedent's personal
representative or, if none, by the decedent's successor in interest.” (CCP §
377.30.) Plaintiffs lack standing in their individual capacity to bring
a negligence or premises liability claim against Defendant because the cause of
action passes to Plaintiffs in their capacity as successor in interest.
Similarly, Plaintiffs only have individual capacity to bring a claim for
wrongful death and not as successors in interest. (See CCP § 377.60.) Thus,
Defendant’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ First and Second Causes of Action as
Individuals is sustained without leave to amend and Defendant’s Demurrer to
Plaintiffs’ Third Cause of Action as Successors in Interest is sustained
without leave to amend.
Plaintiffs have adequately alleged a cause of
action for Premises Liability. Defendant argues that the harm must occur on the
premises for a premises liability claim. “A landowner's duty of care to avoid
exposing others to a risk of injury is not limited to injuries that occur on
premises owned or controlled by the landowner.” (Barnes v. Black (1999)
71 Cal.App.4th 1473, 1478.) Further, the California Code of Regulations
contemplates that restraints may be used in certain limited circumstances,
including to prevent a client from leaving a facility when there is an
immediate threat to the client’s health and safety. Here, Plaintiffs have
alleged that Decedent was “gravely disabled,” had a history of injuries from
leaving facilities, and Decedent’s behavior in the month prior to her death
evidenced that she needed high levels of supervision. (Compl. ¶¶ 15 and 18-33.)
Thus, Plaintiffs’ have adequately alleged that Defendant failed to adequately
maintain their premises to avoid exposing Decedent to risks of injury.
Therefore, Defendant’s Demurrer to the Second Cause of Action by Plaintiffs as
Successor in Interest is overruled. 
Plaintiffs’ have filed a Declaration of
Successor in Interest, thus, Defendant’s demurrer to the SAC for failure to
file such is overruled.
2.   
Motion to Strike
Defendant moves to strike portions in
Plaintiffs’ SAC related to improper damages for medical, ambulance, incidental
expenses, economic loss, property damage, and pre-trial interest. 
Plaintiffs seek recovery of medical, ambulance,
and incidental expenses; economic loss; property damage; and pre-trial
interest. Survival causes of action are limited to “loss or damage that the
decedent sustained or incurred before death, including any penalties or
punitive or exemplary damages that the decedent would have been entitled to
recover had the decedent lived, and do not include damages for pain, suffering,
or disfigurement.” (CCP § 377.34.) Wrongful Death causes of action are limited
to the financial benefits the heirs were receiving at the time of death, those
reasonably to be expected in the future, and the monetary equivalent of loss of
comfort, society, and protection. (Boeken v. Philip Morris USA Inc.
(2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 992.) Thus, medical, ambulance, and incidental expenses;
economic loss; property damage; and pre-trial interest are recoverable for
Decedent by and through Plaintiffs as her Successors in Interest. However,
those damages are not recoverable by Plaintiffs in their individual capacity
for their Wrongful Death cause of action. Therefore, Paragraph 58, Lines 11-17
are stricken. Further, Plaintiffs Prayer for Relief states that “Plaintiff
Patrick Higgins and Plaintiff Laura Clark” are seeking damages but not Decedent
by and through Plaintiffs as successors in interest. Thus, Paragraph 1 of the
Prayer for Relief is Stricken, with leave to amend to include Decedent as a
claimant under the Prayer.
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s
Demurrer is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part without leave to amend.
Defendant’s Motion to Strike is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part with leave
to amend.
 
 