 Case Number:  22NWCV01086    Hearing Date:   February 7, 2024    Dept:  C Rincon, et al. v.
American honda
CASE NO.:  22NWCV01086
HEARING:   2/7/24 @ 9:30 AM
#4
 
1.    Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Further Responses is GRANTED
in part with the limitations set forth below and DENIED in part. 
2.   
Plaintiffs’ request for
sanctions is DENIED.
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
Plaintiffs Salvador Rincon and Florencia
Salazar Matlala (Plaintiffs) move to compel further responses to her Requests
for Production (set one) and seek sanctions. 
Background
On
October 24, 2022, Plaintiffs filed a Complaint against Defendant American Honda
Motor Co., Inc. (Defendant) for alleged violations of the Song-Beverly Act for
failure to repair or repurchase Plaintiff’s vehicle and Fraudulent Concealment.
Legal
Standard
CCP
§ 2031.310 allows a party to file a motion compelling further answers to
document requests if it finds that the response is inadequate, incomplete, or
evasive, or an objection in the response is without merit or too general.  The motion shall be accompanied with a meet
and confer declaration.  (CCP §
2031.310(b).)  
Meet
and Confer
The
Court finds that the parties adequately met and conferred.
Discussion

Plaintiffs seek to compel further responses to
Requests Nos. 20, 53, 55, and 61. Defendant produced a further response to
Request No. 61; thus, Plaintiffs’ Motion is moot as to that Request.
Defendant is compelled to provide a further
response. The documents are within the scope of discovery as discovery is broad
and includes information that is admissible or reasonably calculated to lead to
the discovery of admissible evidence. (Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Sup.
Ct. (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 223-224.) Request No. 20 seeks the Operative
Dealership Agreement between Defendant and the dealership that sold Plaintiffs
the vehicle. Defendant argues that the financial information in the Operative
Dealership Agreement is proprietary, and Plaintiffs can obtain information
regarding the agency relationship between Defendant and the dealership by way
of Special Interrogatory which would be less intrusive. Further, Defendant
argues that Plaintiffs can obtain information regarding repairs sent from the
dealership to the manufacturer through the warranty documents. However,
Plaintiffs are making a claim for fraudulent concealment and information
regarding the dealership’s reporting of repair of similar vehicles could lead
to admissible evidence and the parties have filed a protective order. Thus, the
Operative Dealership Agreement is discoverable, however, Defendant may redact
any proprietary financial information from the Agreement or the parties may
agree to production of a sample agreement. Thus, Defendant is ordered to
provide a further response to Request No. 20.
Request
No. 53 seeks documents related to similar vehicles and customer complaints. This
request is overbroad because it seeks documents related to vehicles worldwide.
Therefore, this request will be limited repairs and customer complaints
concerning 2019 Honda CR-Vs sold in California. Defendant is ordered to provide
a further response to Request No. 53 as to 2019 Honda CR-Vs sold in California.

Request
No. 55 seeks all document produced in the matter of Kathleen Cadena, et al.,
v. American Honda Motor Company, Inc., et al, United States District Court,
Central District of California Case No. 2:18-cv-04007-MWF-PJW.
Request
No. 55 is overly broad as it seeks all documents produced in a separate class
action lawsuit and cannot easily be limited. This type of request is not
tailored at all to this case. While some documents may be relevant, there are
undoubtedly many documents which are in no way relevant to this action. The
court has no obligation to modify discovery requests to make them entirely
proper. (Deaile v. Gen. Tele. Co. of Cal. (1974) 40 Cal.App.3d 841,
850-53.) Thus, Plaintiffs’ request for a further response to Request No. 55 is
denied.
Sanctions
The court shall impose a monetary sanction
against the party who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel
further responses to interrogatories or demand for production of documents
unless the party subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or the sanction would otherwise be unjust. (CCP §§ 2030.300(d), 2031.310(h),
2033.290(d).) 
Defendant acted with substantial justification
in opposing Plaintiff’s overbroad requests. Thus, Plaintiffs’ request for
sanctions is denied.
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Further Responses is GRANTED in
part with the limitations set forth above and DENIED in part. Defendant is
ordered to serve its responses within 30 days of this Order. Plaintiffs’
request for sanctions is DENIED.
 
 