 Case Number:  22NWCV01050    Hearing Date:   February 7, 2024    Dept:  C arambula v. decora,
et al.
CASE NO.:  22NWCV01050
HEARING:   2/7/24 @ 9:30 AM
#3
 
Defendants Joy Gordon and Josephine Decora’s
Demurrers are OVERRULED.
Plaintiff to give NOTICE.
 
Defendants Joy Gordon (Gordon) and Josephine
Decora (Decora) (collectively Defendants) demur to Plaintiff Janelle Arambula’s
(Plaintiff) Complaint.
Background
Plaintiff
filed a Complaint against Defendants Josephine Decora, Joy Gordon, and Jane Doe
for injuries sustained from an alleged assault and battery which occurred on
October 1, 2020, while Plaintiff was responding to Defendant Doe’s mental
health emergency as part of a local medical response team. Plaintiff alleges
that she was approached by Defendant Doe while Defendant Doe was in an erratic
and altered state upon arrival at the scene. Defendant Doe assaulted Plaintiff
while Plaintiff was waiting at the entrance to Defendant Doe’s residence.
(Compl. ¶ 8.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendants Josephine Decora and Joy Gordon
owned the property where the incident occurred. Plaintiff alleges five causes
of action against Defendant Doe for:
1.   
Assault
2.   
Battery
3.   
Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress
4.   
Negligence
5.   
Negligent
Hiring
Plaintiff
alleges the Fourth and Fifth Causes of Action only against Defendants Decora
and Gordon.
Legal
Standard
The
party against whom a complaint has been filed may object to the pleading, by
demurrer, on several grounds, including the ground that the pleading does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (CCP § 430.10(e).) A
party may demur to an entire complaint, or to any causes of action stated
therein. (CCP § 430.50(a).) “‘[A] demurrer based on an affirmative defense will
be sustained only where the face of the complaint discloses that the action is
necessarily barred by the defense.’” (McKenney v. Purepac Pharmaceutical Co.
(2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 72, 78-79.)
Meet
and Confer
The
parties have adequately met and conferred. 
Discussion

Defendants demur to the Fourth and Fifth Causes of Action for
Negligence and Negligent Hiring respectively. The elements of negligent are:
(1) A duty; (2) breach of the duty; (3) causation; and (4) damages. (County
of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 292, 318.)
The elements of negligent hiring are: (1) an employer hiring an employee; (2)
the employee is incompetent or unfit; (3) the employer had reason to believe
the employment caused an undue risk of harm; (4) the harm occurs. (Federico
v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 1207, 1213-1214.)
Defendants argue that the Fourth and Fifth Causes of Action for
Negligence and Negligent Hiring are barred by the primary assumption of risk
doctrine. “Primary
assumption of risk is a complete bar to recovery. It applies when, as a matter
of law, the defendant owes no duty to guard against a particular risk of harm.”
(Gregory v. Cott (2014) 59 Cal.4th 996, 1001.) The
primary assumption of risk applies to health care workers who are working with
patients known to have violent tendencies from mental afflictions. (Id.
at 1000.) However, the court in Cott ruled that defendants may still be
liable where “caregivers are not warned of a known risk, where defendants
otherwise increase the level of risk beyond that inherent in providing care, or
where the cause of injury is unrelated to the symptoms of the disease.” (Ibid.)
Here, it is not apparent from the allegations of the Complaint that the primary
assumption of risk doctrine applies. The Complaint alleges that Plaintiff was
working as health care worker at the time, however, it is not clear whether Defendants
should have warned Plaintiff of Defendant Doe’s alleged violent tendencies or
whether the violent tendencies were a symptoms of Defendant Doe’s mental
condition. Thus, the Negligence cause of action is not barred as a matter of
law by the primary assumption of risk on the face of the Complaint. Therefore, Defendants’
demurrer is not sustained on the basis of the primary assumption of risk
doctrine.
Defendants argue that the Fifth Cause of Action
for Negligent Hiring fails to state a cause of action because Plaintiff did not
plead that Defendant Doe’s conduct was foreseeable and that Defendants owed
Plaintiff a duty to control Defendant Doe. First, Plaintiff has adequately
alleged that Defendant Doe was an employee of Defendant Decora. “Defendants,
and each of them, were the agents, servants, and employees of their
co-defendants ….” (Compl. ¶ 5.) Thus, Plaintiff has adequately alleged that Defendants
owed a duty to Plaintiff to protect against harm from her alleged employee
Defendant Doe. Second, Plaintiff has adequately pled that Defendants knew or
should have known her alleged employee, Defendant Doe, was unfit for
employment. (Compl. ¶¶ 41-42.) Thus, Plaintiff has adequately pled a cause of
action for Negligent Hiring.  Defendants’
demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action is overruled.
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ Demurrers are
OVERRULED.