 Case Number:  23NWCV01622    Hearing Date:   February 7, 2024    Dept:  C Myers v. state farm
CASE NO.:  23NWCV01622
HEARING:   2/7/24 @ 9:30 AM
#7
 
Defendant’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED with 30
days leave to amend.
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
Defendant State Farm Insurance (Defendant)
demurs to Plaintiff Eva Myers’ Complaint on the grounds that it is uncertain
and fails to state a claim.
Background
Plaintiff
filed a Complaint against Defendant for Breach of Contract. The Complaint
contains six lines of allegations:
Defendant State Farm
Insurance. One State Farm Plaza. Bloominton, IL 61710. 
Breach of Contract by
the insurance State Farm company policy number 75-EL-3927-0 for the insured Eva
Myers regarding claim number 75-7903-N62 date of loss March 3, 2019. Eva Myers
alleges that the insurer’s “bad faith” in their failure to pay the claim under
the policy amounts to a breach of the agreement. Eva Myers alleges that this
including failing to properly investigate the claim, and intentionally delaying
and failing to honor policy benefits for the claim.
Legal
Standard
The party against whom
a complaint has been filed may object to the pleading, by demurrer, on several
grounds, including the ground that the pleading does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action. (CCP § 430.10(e).) A party may demur to an
entire complaint, or to any causes of action stated therein. (CCP § 430.50(a).)
Discussion

Defendant’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint
is sustained. “Where a party relies upon a contract in writing, and it
affirmatively appears that all terms of the contract are not set forth in haec
verba, nor stated in their legal effect, but that a portion which may be
material has been omitted, the complaint is insufficient.” (Gilmore v.
Lycoming Fire Ins. Co. (1880) 55 Cal. 123, 124.) Here, Plaintiff relies on
her Insurance Contract with Defendant for a claim of breach of contract,
however, she fails to attach the Insurance Contract or plead its material
terms. Further, Plaintiff has failed to plead any facts to support her claim.
Thus, the Complaint is uncertain as to the contract Plaintiff claims was
breached and the facts which Plaintiff alleges support her claim. Therefore,
Defendant’s Demurrer to the Complaint is sustained.
Leave to Amend
Plaintiff stated in her opposition that her
Complaint will be amended. However, a party must seek leave of court to amend
after a demurrer is filed unless the amendment is filed before the deadline to
file an opposition. (CCP § 472(a). Plaintiff has not filed an amended
complaint. Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable
possibility of successfully stating a cause of action even when the party does
not make a request for leave. (Schulz v. Neovi Data Corp. (2007) 152
Cal. App. 4th 86, 92.) Plaintiff has not yet amended her Complaint, thus, the
Court finds there is a reasonable possibility that Plaintiff can successfully
amend her Complaint.
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s
Demurrer is SUSTAINED with 30 days leave to amend.
 
 