  Case Number:  22STCV17463    Hearing Date:   February 27, 2024    Dept:  1 This is an employment case. Plaintiff Michael Zendejas Palomino
(Plaintiff) filed it as a class action, to which claims were later added under
the Private Attorney General Act (PAGA). On October 24, 2022, the Court granted
the stipulation by Plaintiff and defendants Moss Management Services, Inc. and
Marmion Partners, LLC (Defendants) to stay the action so that they could
arbitrate the individual PAGA claims and dismiss all class claims. The Court
dismissed the class claims and Plaintiff's individual, non-PAGA claims pursuant
to his request on December 13, 2022. On April 26, 2023, the Court granted Moon
& Yang, APC's motion to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff, rendering him
self-represented. Plaintiff now moves to file an amended complaint based on
allegations of sexual orientation discrimination, disability discrimination,
retaliation, and wrongful termination. 

Plaintiff's motion is essentially just an amended complaint, lacking a formal
motion, memorandum, or other supporting documents. This is a violation of Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1112(a) and is grounds for denying the motion. 

Moreover, this case is no longer complex. Plaintiff has dismissed all his
individual and class claims, and his individual PAGA claims are in arbitration.
The individual discrimination, retaliation, and wrongful termination claims
Plaintiff seeks to add to this case are not complex claims and do not reflect
that the condition precedent to filing a lawsuit by first presenting his claims
to the DFEH or the EEOC. The Los Angeles Superior Court maintains a distinction
between complex and non-complex litigation (see Local Rule 3.3(k)). It is
therefore not "in furtherance of justice" for the Court to permit the
amendments Plaintiff is seeking. Rather, Plaintiff should file his claims as a
new action (as was suggested to him orally at the last hearing), which may be
assigned to an independent calendar court. 

Conclusion

For the foregoing reasons, the motion is denied. Defendants to give notice. 