 Case Number:  22STCV19884    Hearing Date:   February 27, 2024    Dept:  1 Moving
Party:             Defendant Luxurban
Hotels, Inc.
Responding
Party:       Plaintiff Zia Ahmed
Ruling:                        Motion for leave to
file first amended answer is granted.
 
This is a wage-and-hour proposed class and Private Attorney General Act (PAGA) action.  Plaintiff Zia Ahmed (Plaintiff) alleges that he and others were employed by defendants O Hotel Management, Inc. and Luxurban Hotels, Inc., during which employment he and others were subjected to various violations of labor law.  Defendant Luxurban Hotels, Inc. (Defendant) moves to amend its answer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint (FAC) to assert additional affirmative defenses.  
Defendant’s counsel
at Novian & Novian LLP avers that they were under the mistaken impression
that the FAC had merely added Defendant as a party, rather than also including claims
under PAGA, and that as a result, Defendant’s answer contained no PAGA-related
defenses.  Counsel’s declaration
furnishes good cause to grant the requested amendments.  Indeed, as Defendant points out, the stipulation
it entered into with Plaintiff to file its answer provided that the FAC was filed
“to add LUXURBAN HOTELS as a named defendant” and makes no mention of any
additional PAGA claims.  
 
Plaintiff contends
that the Court should not grant the motion to add affirmative defenses to the
answer because affirmative defenses must be pled in the answer.  This argument is fallacious and without
merit.  It is precisely because Defendant
would otherwise be foreclosed from relying on the defenses in question that it
seeks to add them to the answer.  Plaintiff’s
contention that the request for amendment is being made “late” only
demonstrates why the request must be made. 
The answer in question was filed in October, and it appears that Defendant’s
counsel raised the issue with Plaintiff’s counsel within 60 days or so.  (See Novian Decl., Ex. C.)  There is no indication any delay was
prejudicial, and indeed, Plaintiff himself delayed roughly a year between
filing the initial complaint and bringing Defendant into the case through the
FAC.
 
 
Plaintiff’s
contention that certain of the defenses are substantively lacking is a merits
argument to be addressed, if at all, by a pleadings motion (that is, a demurrer
to the answer).  Pleadings motions are
subject to the pleadings conference requirement in the January 19, 2024 Case
Management Order.  Demurrers to answers
are also not a good use of attorney or court time, as the factual bases for any
affirmative defenses can be probed through discovery, and meritless affirmative
defenses pose little danger to Plaintiff. 
The parties’ efforts are better spent in conferring with one another to
move the case forward, whether to resolution or to disposition on the
merits.  
 
For the foregoing reasons, the motion is granted.  Defendant is to file its first amended
answer forthwith.  
 
 
 