 Case Number:  21STCV04291    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  29 Defendants’ Motion to Continue Trial
 
Tentative
 
The motion is granted.
 
Background
On February 3, 2021, Fatima Adauta
and Maria Serafin (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against David
Redlus and Deanna Redlus (collectively "Defendants”) filed a negligence
cause of action arising out of an automobile accident occurring on February 22,
2019.
 
On January 11, 2023, default was
entered against Defendants. Defendants filed their answer on March 17, 2023. On
April 24, 2023, a stipulation was filed setting aside the default against
Defendants.
 
On April 4, 2024, Defendants filed
this motion to continue trial. Defendants filed a supplemental declaration in
support of their motion on April 23.  No opposition
has been filed. 
 
Legal Standard
Code Civ. Proc. § 128(a)(8) provides that the
court has the power to amend and control its process and orders so as to make
them conform to law and justice. “The power to determine when a continuance
should be granted is within the discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue,
Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide
latitude in the matter of calendar control including the granting or denying of
continuances.” (Park Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)  
Each request for a continuance must be
considered on its own merits according to California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1332(c). The court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of
good cause requiring the continuance. Circumstances of good cause include:  
“(1) The unavailability of an essential lay
or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(2) The unavailability of a party because of
death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;  
(3) The unavailability of trial counsel
because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;  
(4) The substitution of trial counsel, but
only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in
the interests of justice;  
(5) The addition of a new party if: (A) The
new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare
for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to the new party's
involvement in the case;  
(6) A party's excused inability to obtain
essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent
efforts; or  
(7) A significant, unanticipated change in
the status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for
trial.”  
(Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1332(c).)  
 
California Rules
of Court, Rule 3.1332 sets forth a list of non-exhaustive factors to be
analyzed when determining whether good cause for a trial continuance is
present. A court considers factors such as: 

“(1) The proximity of the trial date;  
(2) Whether there was any previous
continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;  
(3) The length of the continuance
requested;  
(4) The availability of alternative means to
address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a
continuance;  
(5) The prejudice that parties or witnesses
will suffer as a result of the continuance; 
(6) If the case is entitled to a preferential
trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need for a
continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7) The court's calendar and the impact of
granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
(8) Whether trial counsel is engaged in
another trial;  
(9) Whether all parties have stipulated to a
continuance;  
(10) Whether the interests of justice are
best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing
conditions on the continuance; and  
(11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant
to the fair determination of the motion or application.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(d).) 
Discussion
Defendants contend good cause exists for a continuance as Defendants have
not been able to take Plaintiffs’ depositions; independent medical examinations
of Plaintiffs have yet to be conducted as well. (Messina Decl., ¶ 7 (p. 11.);
see also supp. Messina Decl., ¶ 6.) Defendants also contend that Plaintiff has
been less than fully cooperative in moving forward with discovery.  Defendants seek a continuance of trial to
allow them to conduct and complete discovery as well as file motions to compel.
(Motion, 6:22-27; Messina Decl., ¶¶ 4-9; see also supp. Messina Decl., ¶¶ 4-6.)

No opposition has been filed to this motion.
The Court finds that Defendants have met their burden showing good
cause for a continuance based on the necessary discovery yet to be conducted
and discovery motions to be heard on May 30, 2024 and June 17, 2024. 
Accordingly, the motion to continue trial is GRANTED.
Conclusion
The Motion to
Continue Trial is GRANTED. 
The trial date
is continued for approximately six months. 
The Final Status Conference and all deadlines are reset based on the new
trial date.
Moving Party is
ORDERED to give notice.