 Case Number:  22SMCV00534    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  O   Case
Name:  Sjorstand v. Proctor, et al.



Case No.:


22SMCV00534


Complaint Filed:


4-14-22           




Hearing Date:


3-26-24 


Discovery C/O:


1-5-24




Calendar No.:


2


Discovery Motion C/O:


1-22-24




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


6-10-24



SUBJECT:                 MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT 
MOVING
PARTY:   Defendant Julie Ann Proctor
RESP.
PARTY:         Plaintiff Peter Sjorstand
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Defendant Julie
Ann Proctor’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. Defendant Julie Ann
Proctor meets her burden to establish a defense to notary civil liability, and the
lack of evidence on essential elements of Plaintiff Peter Sjorstand’s claims. Plaintiff
Peter Sjorstand does not meet his burden to established disputed material facts
as to the causes of action or the defense. 
 
            Defendant
Julie Ann Proctor’s Objections Nos. 1, 2 to the declaration of Dermont Givins
including exhibits 1,2 and 3 (discovery responses) are OVERRULED.   The objections Nos. 3 through 16 to the declaration
of Plaintiff Peter Sjorstand and exhibits referenced therein are SUSTAINED.  Moreover, the evidence referenced in
Objections 2 the aands not material to the claims asserted against Procter. 
 
I.               
Defendant Proctor Meets her Burden of showing
Plaintiff cannot meet essential elements of both his claim in the SAC, nor that
Plaintiff can establish notary wrongdoing or liability.
      
            Where a
defendant seeks summary judgment or adjudication, they must show that either
“one or more elements of the cause of action, even if not separately pleaded,
cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to that cause of
action.” (Code of Civil Procedure §437c(o)(2).) A defendant may satisfy this burden
by showing that the claim “cannot be established” because of the lack of
evidence on some essential element of the claim. (Union Bank v. Superior
Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 574, 590.) Once the defendant meets this
burden, the burden shifts to plaintiff to show that a “triable issue of one or
more material facts exists as to that cause of action or defense thereto.” (Id.)
If unable to prove the existence of a triable issue of material fact, summary
judgment or summary adjudication in favor of the defendant is proper. (Id.)
 
            Defendant
Julie Ann Proctor (“Proctor”) argues that Plaintiff Peter Sjorstand (“Sjorstand”)
cannot establish notary wrongdoing or liability as to Proctor, a complete
defense to notary civil liability, and further Sjorstand cannot meet one or
more elements of both the SAC’s causes of action. (Motion, pp. 9–11.) 
 
"To prevail on a claim to
cancel an instrument, a plaintiff must prove (1) the instrument is void or
voidable due to, for example, fraud; and (2) there is a reasonable apprehension
of serious injury including pecuniary loss or the prejudicial alteration of
one's position." (Thompson v. Ioane (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 1180,
1193–1194; see Civ. Code, § 3412 ["A written instrument, in respect to
which there is a reasonable apprehension that if left outstanding it may cause
serious injury to a person against whom it is void or voidable, may, upon his
application, be so adjudged, and ordered to be delivered up or
canceled."].)
 
Under that CCP §761.020, the
elements of a quiet title claim are (a) A description of the property that is
the subject of the action; (b) The title of the plaintiff as to which a
determination under this chapter is sought and the basis of the title; (c) The
adverse claims to the title of the plaintiff against which a determination is
sought; (d) The date as of which the determination is sought; (e) A prayer for
the determination of the title of the plaintiff against the adverse claims.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 761.020.)
 
“For the official misconduct or neglect
of a notary public, the notary public and the sureties on the notary public's
official bond are liable in a civil action to the persons injured thereby for
all the damages sustained.” (Gov. Code, § 8214.) Notary’s can only be held
civilly liable for a breach of duty if it can be shown that “damages were
proximately caused by the breach.” Garton v. Title Ins. & Trust Co.
(1980) 106 Cal.App.3d 365, 378.) “Civil Code section 1185 provides that a
notary must not take an acknowledgment of an instrument unless he knows, or has
satisfactory evidence, that the person making such acknowledgment is the
individual who is described in and who executed the instrument; . . . This
requirement makes the certificate upon personal knowledge a guaranty of the
genuineness of the instrument.”  (Id.,
at p. 377; see Civ. Code, § 1185.)
 
The acknowledging of instruments
that effect transfers of real property are governed by sections 1180-1207 of
the Civil Code. (see Civ. Code §§ 1180–1207.) A notary public may acknowledge
such an instrument in California. (See Civ. Code § 1181.) The person
acknowledging the instrument must have “satisfactory evidence that the person
making the acknowledgment is the individual who is described in and who
executed the instrument.” (Civ. Code § 1185, subd., (a).) “[S]atisfactory
evidence” means the absence of information that the signing individual is not
who she claims to be and presents a California driver’s license. (Civ.  Code § 1185, subd., (b).) Section 1185(b)
provides in part:
 
(b) For purposes of
this section, “satisfactory evidence” means the absence of information,
evidence, or other circumstances that would lead a reasonable person to believe
that the person making the acknowledgment is not the individual he or she
claims to be and any one of the following: * * * 
(3) Reasonable
reliance on the presentation to the officer of any one of the following, if the
document or other form of identification is current or has been issued within
five years: 
(A) An
identification card or driver’s license issued by the Department of Motor
Vehicles.


(Ibid.)
 
            Proctor declares
she is a licensed notary. (SSUF No. 1; Proctor Decl., ¶ 2.) Proctor
declares and provides evidence that on 10-21-21 Proctor received and agreed to a
notary assignment from Catherine Wingenroth at Prominent Escrow to perform a
mobile notary service for Birgitta Sjostrand (“Birgitta”) at 1345 Casiano Rd.,
Los Angeles, CA 90049 (“1345 Casiano”), including an escrow package and stating
Bigitta’s cell phone number as (707) 782-3070. (SSUF Nos. 2, 4; Proctor Decl.,
¶¶ 4, 6; Exhibit 2, 3.) Proctor declares and provides evidence that on 10-21-21
and 10-22-21 Proctor believes she spoke to Birgitta via the above cell phone
number at least three times and declares the voice was the same as Birgitta’s
voice when proctor met Birgitta in person on 10-22-21. (SSUF Nos. 5, 6; Proctor
Decl., ¶¶ 7, 8, Ex. 4.)  Proctor declares
that prior to 10-21-21 she had never heard of, spoken to, or met Birgitta, nor
had she met, heard of, or spoken to Sjorstand, Bye Bye House or Center Street
Lending, Inc. (SSUF No. 7; Proctor Decl., ¶ 9.) 
 
            Proctor
declares on 10-22-21 Proctor met Birgitta in person at 1345 Casiano Rd to
perform the notary services, Birgitta’s voice matched the voice on the cell
phone calls, Proctor examined Birgitta’s current California Driver’s License
confirming Birgitta’s identity, and the meeting lasted approximately 45-50
minutes. (SSUF Nos. 8, 9, 15; Proctor Decl., 10, 11, 17, Ex. 1.) Proctor
declares she “watched Birgitta sign and acknowledged her signature on the Grant
Deed, Trust Certification, and Owner’s Affidavit,” Proctor “entered the three
acknowledgments into her notary journal on two lines and directed Birgitta to
place her two thumb prints on the two lines of her notary journal,” Proctor
witnessed Birgitta fill out and sign the other documents in the Prominent
Escrow package where Proctor did not “see or hear Birgitta obtain any
assistance from any other person while she was filling out documents and
signing them.” (SSUF Nos. 10–13; Proctor Decl., ¶¶ 12–15, Ex. 1, 5, 6, 7.)
Proctor declares the purchase and sales agreement for 1345 Casiano Rd was not
in the escrow package, and Proctor did not acknowledge any signature on the
purchase and sales agreement. (SSUF No. 14; Proctor Decl., ¶ 16.) Proctor
declares that during the meeting with Birgitta, Proctor “did not observe any
behavior by Birgitta to indicate she had dementia or otherwise lacked mental
capacity. Birgitta was not confused, she filled out the escrow documents at a
“normal” pace, and she seemed to understand the documents.” (SSUF No. 16;
Proctor Decl., ¶ 18.)
 
            The Court
finds that Proctor has provided evidence to show there was no notary official misconduct
or neglect during her meeting with Birgitta, and that she abided by her duties
as a notary under Civ. Code § 1185. Thus, Proctor has met her burden to
establish a complete defense to civil liability as a notary. Furthermore, Proctor
establishes that the first element of the cancellation
of written instrument cause of action cannot be met
because Proctor successfully demonstrates the instrument is not void or
voidable due to any fraud.  
 
            Regarding
the second cause of action for quiet title, Proctor declares she “does not
currently claim and has never claimed any interest in the property located at
1345 Casiano Rd., Los Angeles, CA 90049.” (SSUF No. 23; Proctor Decl., ¶ 26.)  Thus, the Court finds that Proctor has met her
burden to show that Sjorstand cannot establish an existence of a claim, an
essential element of a quiet title cause of action. (See Code Civ. Proc., §
761.020, subd., (c) [“The adverse claims to the title of the plaintiff against
which a determination is sought.”].)
 II.        Sjorstand
Does not meet his burden to provide evidence showing the existence of a triable
issue of material fact as to Proctor’s defense.
 
            Sjorstand
argues that Proctor had actual and inquiry notice that Birgitta lacked capacity
to contract on 10-22-21, but provides no admissible evidence, nor any
authority, to dispute Proctor’s provided defense, material facts and evidence. Sjostrand
does not provide any specific statute of legal duty violated by Proctor, nor
does Sjorstand offer any legal authority that a notary has a duty to ascertain
the mental capacity of a person signing a document whose signature the notary
is acknowledging. Furthermore, Sjorstand provides no argument or evidence to
dispute the fact that Proctor does not currently have a claim to the property
at issue.
 
            Thus, the
Court finds that Sjorstand has not met his duty to provide evidence showing an
existence of a triable issue of material fact as to Proctor’s defense, or the
causes of action. 
 
Proctor’s Motion for Summary
Judgment is GRANTED. 