  Case Number:  21STCV26026    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



WILLIAM ERNESTO QUINTEROS, et al.  
  
        
  vs.
 
BUDDIE L. HORN AS TRUSTEE OF THE HORN TRUST.


 Case
  No.:  21STCV26026
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  November 9, 2023



 
Plaintiff Christopher Angelo
Perez’s Counsel, Friedman & Chapman, LLP’s, Motion to Be Relieved as
Counsel is granted.
 
On
July 15, 2021, Plaintiffs Christopher Angelo Perez (“Perez”), William Ernesto
Quinteros, Veronica Colin, Natalie Quinteros, Cassandra Quinteros, Caroline
Quinteros, Sergio Flores, Veronica Flores, Naomi Pinzon, Maria Ponce Hernandez,
Salvador Pimentel, Nancy Marin, Marion Matias, Adrian Matias, Zoe Matias, and
Aenhoa Marine (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action against Defendant Buddie
L. Horn as the trustee of the Horn Trust (“Horn”) (“Defendant”).  On September 15, 2021, Plaintiffs filed the
operative first amended complaint (“FAC”).  On July 5, 2022, Defendant filed his Answer.
On
June 29, 2023, Perez’s Counsel, Friedman & Chapman, LLP, by way of Roy
Diaz, filed the instant Motion to be Relieved as Counsel. 
Trial
is not set. 
 
Legal
Standard
California Rule of Court rule 3.1362 (Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel)
requires (1) notice of motion and motion to be directed to the client (made on
the Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-051));
(2) a declaration stating in general terms and without compromising the confidentiality
of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure
section 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil
Procedure section 284(1) (made on the Declaration in Support of Attorney’s
Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-052)); (3) service of the
notice of motion and motion and declaration on all other parties who have
appeared in the case; and (4) the proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on
the Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form
(MC-053)). 
The court has discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw, and such a
motion should be granted provided that there is no prejudice to the client, and
it does not disrupt the orderly process of justice.  (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21
Cal.App.4th 904, 915.)
 
Discussion
Counsel
has submitted completed MC-051, MC-052 and MC-053 forms. Counsel has provided a
declaration stating Plaintiff Christopher Angelo Perez has become uncooperative
in the prosecution of this matter.  (See
Decl. of Diaz.)  Counsel has indicated
that Perez was served with copies of the motion papers filed with the
declaration at Perez’s last known address and has been unable to confirm that
the address is current or to locate a more current address for the client after
mailing the motion papers to the client’s last known address, return receipt
requested, calling the client’s last known telephone number, and contacting
Sergio Flores, Perez’s roommate.
 
Conclusion
Perez’s Counsel’s Motion to
Be Relieved as Counsel is granted.
Counsel will be relieved upon
filing proof of service on their client of the Order Granting Attorney’s Motion
to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil (Judicial Council form MC-053).

Moving Party to give notice.
 
Dated:  November _____, 2023
                                                                                





  