 Case Number:  23VECV01007    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  T MEGNA REAL ESTATE V MILESTONE 23VECV01007
[TENTATIVE] ORDER: 
Defendants Milestone Financial LLC and William R. Stuart’s Motion for
Judgment on the Pleadings is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.  
Defendants Milestone Financial LLC and William R. Stuart’s
Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED but not as to hearsay or facts in
dispute.
Introduction 
Defendants Milestone Financial LLC (Milestone) and William
R. Stuart (Stuart) (collectively, Defendants) moved for judgment on the
pleadings against Plaintiff Megna Real Estate Management Inc.’s (Plaintiff)
Complaint.  
Procedure 
Defendants failed to show compliance with the meet and
confer requirements when filing a motion for judgment on the pleadings.  (Code Civ. Proc. sec. 439.)  Although failure to comply with the meet and
confer requirements cannot be grounds to grant or deny the motion, it can be
grounds to continue the motion or take the motion off-calendar.  
Based upon the original September 12, 2023 hearing date of
the motion, Plaintiff’s opposition was due August 29, 2023.  Plaintiff filed/served the opposition on
September 7, 2023 which made it so untimely that it infringed upon Defendants’
due process rights to timely file a reply (which had a deadline of September 5,
2023.)  However, Defendants were able to
file their reply the following day and addressed the merits of the opposition.  Because Defendants addressed the substance of
the opposition, the Court considered the untimely opposition.
Discussion  
Defendants argued that Plaintiff lacked standing to file the
instant action because the property’s title ownership was transferred from
Plaintiff to non-party Megna Bell Gardens Office Complex, Inc. (Bell) on
February 3, 2022.  (Request for Judicial
Notice (RJN) Exh. 3.)  The instant action
by Plaintiff purporting to have ownership interest in the property was filed on
March 6, 2023.  Plaintiff argued that it
had title ownership of the property on July 2, 2020 when Defendants’ alleged
misconduct in taking steps to foreclose on the property occurred.  However, Plaintiff’s contentions are belied
by the allegations in the Complaint. 
Plaintiff alleged that it entered into a Loan Modification Agreement
(LMA) in May 2022 (after title ownership was transferred to Bell) and made
payments commencing on June 1, 2022. 
Defendants allegedly recorded the wrongful Notice of Default (NOD) on
November 30, 2022.  (Compl. pars.
17-19.)  The alleged wrongful NOD being
recorded on November 30, 2022 allegedly occurred after February 3, 2022, when
Bell held title ownership of the property. 
Because the alleged wrongful conduct occurred when Bell held title to
the property and because Bell held title to the property when the instant
action was filed, Plaintiff does not have standing to bring this action.
Plaintiff’s request to file a verification to the
allegations of the Complaint are irrelevant to the alleged pleading defects
reviewed above.
Plaintiff’s argument that the COAs are sufficiently alleged
are insufficient to save the Complaint from the motion’s issue related to
standing.
The motion for judgment on the pleadings is GRANTED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND.  