  Case Number:  21STCV11203    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 




BENOISE FRANKLIN,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES, et
  al.
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


21STCV11203
  




Hearing
  Date:


May 2,
   2024




Hearing
  Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
 
MOTION FOR
  RELIEF UNDER CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE SECTION 473




            
Background
Plaintiff Benoise
Franklin (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on March 23, 2021 against Defendant
County of Los Angeles (“Defendant”). The Complaint alleges causes of action for
(1) discrimination on the basis of color and/or race, (2) harassment on the
basis of color and/or race, (3) retaliation, and (4) failure to prevent
discrimination, harassment, and/or retaliation.  
Plaintiff
now moves for an order allowing the late filing and consideration
of Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections in opposition to Defendant’s motion for
summary judgment. Defendant opposes.  
            Discussion 
Code of Civil Procedure section 473,
subdivision (b) provides in pertinent part as follows:
 
“The court may, upon any terms as may
be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this
relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed
to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall
be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.”
On March 3, 2023,
Defendant filed a motion for summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary
adjudication of issues (herein, the “MSJ”). On January 11, 2024, Plaintiff
filed an opposition to Defendant’s MSJ. Plaintiff notes that the opposition
provides, inter alia, “[t]his Opposition is based on the
Memorandum of Points and Authorities, Declarations of Benoise Franklin and
Kenneth W. Baisch, Response to Defendant’s Separate Statement and Plaintiff’s
Statement of Additional Disputed Facts, and Evidentiary Objections, filed
concurrently herewith…” (Opp’n at p. 2:10-13.)
 In his declaration in support
of the instant motion, Plaintiff’s counsel states that “[a]s is noted in the
Plaintiff’s Memorandum of Points and Authorities, filed 1/11/24, at page 2,
line 12, I had drafted, and the opposition included Evidentiary Objections. I
had, in fact, drafted them 11/14/2023, and given them to my legal assistant to
file as part of the entire opposition package. I had no reason to believe nor
was I informed that the document was not included in the documents scanned,
filed, and served.” (Baisch Decl., ¶ 2.) 
On January 25, 2024, the Court issued an order on Defendant’s MSJ
providing, inter alia, that “Defendant has interposed 78 evidentiary
objections. Due to the voluminous number of objections, the hearing on the
motion will be continued to a date that will be set at the Hearing on
Objections discussed below.” (Order at p. 1:17-19.) The Court set the Hearing
on Objections for February 16, 2024. (Id. at p.
2:3.) 
In his declaration in support of the instant motion, Plaintiff’s
counsel states that “[o]n January 24, 2024, before the January 25, 2024 hearing
on the motion for summary judgment, the Court issued a tentative ruling
requiring that the parties meet and confer regarding the objections filed by
Defendant to evidence. It did not mention Plaintiffs Evidentiary Objections. On
the following Monday, January 29, 2024, in preparing to meet and confer with
opposing counsel regarding their objections, I looked at the docket, and
discovered for the first time that the evidentiary objections, above, had not
been filed with the rest of Plaintiff’s opposition to the motion. I do not know
why this occurred, but it was ultimately my fault in not going over the papers
after they were scanned into the computer to make sure nothing was missing. I
therefore take full responsibility for my mistake, inadvertence, and excusable
neglect.” (Baisch Decl., ¶ 3.) 
Plaintiff notes that on January 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed “Plaintiff’s
Evidentiary Objections in Opposition to Defendant’s Motion for Summary
Judgment.” 
On February 16, 2024, the Court issued a minute order providing, inter
alia, that “Hearing on Objections is held. The parties agreed and the Court
ordered them to file, on or before 02/29/2024, revised joint statement that
complies with the Court's January 25, 2024 Order, particularly the requirement
that the parties set forth the arguments of each side in support of their
objections. The Court orders the parties to meet and confer to try to further
reduce the number of objections to only those that are material. At this time
the late-filed objections by plaintiff without a court order, are improper and
will not be considered. The hearing on the Objections and the resetting of the
Motion for Summary Judgment are continued to March 15, 2024 at 10:00 a.m. in
Department 50.” 
In the instant motion, Plaintiff argues that “[i]n the present case,
the sworn-to mistake, inadvertence, surprise, and excusable neglect of
Plaintiff’s counsel led to their default in failing to file timely Plaintiff’s
Evidentiary Objections along with the rest of Plaintiff’s opposition to
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment. But for this mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, and excusable neglect, the objections would have been timely filed
along with the other papers on January 11, 2024.” (Mot. at p. 6:22-26.) 
In the opposition, Defendant
asserts that “a reasonably prudent person having done all the
work months ahead would have ensured that all documents were together and ready
to file so that none of them would have been left out. Because the Court has
discretion, it should not automatically accept Plaintiff’s counsel’s excuse as
valid and reasonably prudent.”
(Opp’n at p. 2:24-28.) Plaintiff cites to Garcia v. Hejmadi (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th
674, 681-682, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[r]elief can only be granted under the
mandatory provision in section 473, subdivision (b),
if relief could have been granted under the discretionary provision…The mandatory provision was
added by amendment in 1991 to provide relief to the client even when the
attorney’s mistake or neglect was not excusable…To determine whether the
mistake or neglect was excusable…the court inquires whether a reasonably prudent person under the same or similar
circumstances might have made the same error…” (Internal quotations, citations,
and emphasis omitted.) 
In the reply, Plaintiff asserts
that “Defendant argues…that it was not a mistake, inadvertence,
or excusable neglect to assume that papers timely given to a legal assistant to
file and serve were, in fact, timely filed and served. The insupportable and
unsupported argument is patently at odds with the statute, as under Defendant’s
interpretation, no clerical error that was not caught in time by counsel would
be excusable. California [law] on the other hand supports granting Plaintiff
the relief sought.” (Reply at p. 2:18-23.) Plaintiff cites to Zamora v.
Clayborn Contracting Group, Inc. (2002) 28 Cal.4th 249, 252, where the California
Supreme Court found that “[t]his appeal
arises out of a typo. In typing up an offer to compromise pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 998…(section 998
offer), an attorney’s legal assistant types the word ‘against’ instead of the
phrase ‘in favor of.’ As a result, the typed document mistakenly offers to
settle the matter for a judgment against the attorney’s client in the amount
of $149,999. Not surprisingly, the opposing party jumps at the offer. We now
consider whether the party who made the erroneous section
998 offer may obtain relief pursuant to the discretionary relief provision
of section 473, subdivision (b), and conclude he
may.” (Emphasis in original.) 
            The Zamora Court found that “[h]ere,
the trial court reasonably concluded that the mistake made by Zamora’s counsel was excusable. The erroneous
substitution of the word ‘against’ for the phrase ‘in favor of’ is a clerical
or ministerial mistake that could have been made by anybody. While counsel’s
failure to review the document before sending it out was imprudent, we cannot
say that his imprudence rendered the mistake inexcusable under the
circumstances. Indeed, appellate courts have routinely affirmed orders
vacating judgments based on analogous mistakes made by an attorney or his or
her staff. For example, courts have set aside judgments where: (1) The
attorney mistakenly checked the ‘with prejudice’ box instead of the
‘without prejudice’ box; (2) an associate misinterpreted the instructions of
the lead attorney and gave incorrect information at a hearing; and (3) the
attorney’s secretary lost the answer to be filed…” (Zamora v. Clayborn
Contracting Group, Inc., supra, 28 Cal.4th at p. 259 [internal citations omitted].) As
discussed, Plaintiff’s counsel indicates that here, “[o]n…January
29, 2024…[he] looked at the docket, and discovered for the first time that the
evidentiary objections…had not been filed with the rest of Plaintiff’s
opposition to the motion.” (Baisch, ¶ 3.) Plaintiff’s counsel states “it was
ultimately [his] fault in not going over the papers after they were scanned
into the computer to make sure nothing was missing.” (Baisch, ¶ 3.) Plaintiff’s
further counsel states that he “had, in fact, drafted them 11/14/2023, and
given them to [his] legal assistant to file as part of the entire opposition
package.” (Baisch Decl., ¶ 2.) 
In the
opposition, Defendant also asserts that “Plaintiff’s failure to
file written objections prior to January 25, 2024, and his failure to make oral
objections on January 25, deemed those objections waived.” (Opp’n at p.
3:13-15.) Defendant cites to Code of Civil Procedure
section 437c, subdivision (b)(5), which provides that
“[e]videntiary objections not made at the hearing shall be deemed waived.”
Defendant also cites to Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c, subdivision (d), which provides that “[s]upporting and opposing affidavits or declarations shall
be made by a person on personal knowledge, shall set forth admissible evidence,
and shall show affirmatively that the affiant is competent to testify to the
matters stated in the affidavits or declarations. An objection based on the
failure to comply with the requirements of this subdivision, if not made at the
hearing, shall be deemed waived.”  
Defendant also cites to California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1354,
subdivision (a),
which provides that “[u]nless otherwise
excused by the court on a showing of good cause, all written objections to
evidence in support of or in opposition to a motion for summary judgment or
summary adjudication must be served and filed at the same time as the objecting
party’s opposition or reply papers are served and filed.” Defendant asserts
that “Plaintiff’s counsel has failed to show good cause.” (Opp’n
at p. 3:20.) 
In the reply, Plaintiff counters that “[t]he fact that section 437c sets dates for filing opposition papers
does not prevent the Court from granting relief from a clerical error that
occurred in filing that opposition.” (Reply at p. 3:20-22.) Plaintiff cites to Stephen
Slesinger, Inc. v. Walt Disney Co. (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 736, 758, where the Court of Appeal
noted that “[f]rom
their creation by article VI, section 1 of the
California Constitution, California courts received broad inherent power
not confined by or dependent on statute. This inherent power includes
fundamental inherent equity, supervisory, and administrative powers, as well as
inherent power to control litigation.” (Internal quotations and citations
omitted.) In addition, as discussed, Code of Civil
Procedure section 473, subdivision (b) provides, inter alia,
that “[t]he court may, upon any terms
as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a
judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her
through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.” 
Lastly, Defendant asserts that “Plaintiff cannot demonstrate that his
objections are valid.” (Opp’n at p. 4:14.) Defendant asserts that the
objections “fail to indicate what specific language Plaintiff finds
objectionable.” (Opp’n at p. 4:20-21.) But the subject evidentiary objections
do list the specific portions of the declarations that are objected to by
Plaintiff. (See January 30, 2024 Objections.) 
Defendant also asserts that Plaintiff’s Objection No. 1 does not
apply. In the reply, Plaintiff asserts that “this is something that can easily
be resolved through similar meeting and conferring,” and that “this is not a
legal basis for denying the relief under section 473.”
(Reply at p. 3:25-26.) Indeed, the instant motion concerns Plaintiff’s request
for an order allowing the late filing of Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections,
not the merit of the subject objections.  
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has
demonstrated good cause for an order allowing the late filing of Plaintiff’s
evidentiary objections filed on January 30, 2024. Accordingly, the Court orders the parties to further meet and confer by
telephone or in person in a serious and good faith effort to resolve and
eliminate the parties’ evidentiary objections, which now include Plaintiff’s evidentiary
objections filed on January 30, 2024. As set forth above, Defendant also
interposed 78 evidentiary objections. Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections
contain 27 objections. On February 29, 2024, a Joint Statement Re: Objections
was filed, which only concerns Defendant’s objections to Plaintiff’s evidence. 
As discussed in the Court’s January 25, 2024 Order, the only objections that should remain are those that
pertain to material evidence regarding material
issues. Keeping the rules of evidence in mind, the parties should be able to
reduce the objections to just a few. 
If any material objections
remain unresolved, the parties are to set them forth in a new joint statement identifying
the specific objectionable statement (not multiple statements or paragraphs),
the objection, and the argument of each side in favor of their respective
positions regarding the remaining material objections, along with a space for a
ruling. 
The new joint
statement must be filed on or before _______
with a courtesy copy delivered to Department 50. The Court will review
any remaining objections with the parties at a hearing on _______________ at
2:00 p.m. (the “Hearing on Objections”). The date for the hearing on
Defendant’s MSJ will be set at the Hearing on Objections. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion for an
order allowing the late filing of Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections filed on
January 30, 2024. 
The Court orders the parties to further meet
and confer by telephone or in person in a serious and good faith effort to
resolve and eliminate the parties’ evidentiary objections, and to file a new
joint statement, as discussed in further detail above. 
Plaintiff is ordered to provide notice of this
ruling. 
 
DATED:  May 2, 2024                                   ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 