 Case Number:  21STCV15673    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  50 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 
 



CITY OF BURBANK,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
STATE OF CALIFORNIA, DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION, et al.
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


 
  21STCV15673




Hearing Date:


May 2, 2024




Hearing Time:


2:00 p.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:  
 
MOTION FOR
  SUMMARY JUDGMENT BY DEFENDANT THE PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA, OR, IN
  THE ALTERNATIVE, FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION; 
 
PLAINTIFF AND
  CROSS-DEFENDANT CITY OF BURBANK’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION


 



 
 
Background
On April 26, 2021, Plaintiff City of Burbank (“City”) filed this
action against Defendant State of California, Department of Transportation (“Caltrans”).
The Complaint alleges one cause of action for declaratory relief. 
On June 27, 2023, Caltrans filed a Cross-Complaint against the
City, alleging causes of action for (1) declaratory relief, (2) injunctive
relief, and (3) quiet title. 
            On June 27, 2023, the Court
issued a minute order in this action providing, inter alia, that 
“[t]he
State has reserved an [sic] Motion for Summary Judgment date on 3/14/24. The
City may also file an [sic] Motion for Summary Judgment/MSA to be heard on the
same date 3/14/24 and the same time because the parties have indicated that
they expect the same evidence to apply to the motion.” 
            Caltrans now moves for “an Order
granting Summary Judgment in its favor per its cross-complaint on the grounds
that there is no triable issues of material fact and the State is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law as to its two causes of action against
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant City of Burbank…”[1]
Caltrans also “move[s] for summary judgment on the same grounds against the
City’s complaint, which alleges one cause of action for declaratory relief.”
The City opposes.
            The City moves for summary judgment
on its Complaint and on Caltrans’s Cross-Complaint. Caltrans opposes. 
Requests for Judicial Notice 
A.   
Caltrans’s Motion 
The Court grants Caltrans’s request for judicial notice in support
of Caltrans’s motion. 
The Court grants the City’s request for judicial notice in support
of City’s opposition to Caltrans’s motion, only as to “City of Burbank
Resolution 25,038.” (City’s RJN at p. 2:6.) As noted by Caltrans, it appears
the City’s request for judicial notice attaches documents in addition to
Resolution 25,038. (Caltrans’s Objections at p. 2:6-8.) The City did not
request that the Court take judicial notice of such documents, so the Court
declines to do so. 
B.   
The City’s Motion  
            The Cout grants the City’s request
for judicial notice in support of the City’s motion. 
            The Court grants Caltrans’s request
for judicial notice in support of Caltrans’s opposition to the City’s motion.  
Evidentiary Objections 
A.   
Caltrans’s Motion 
The City’s Objections 
The Court rules on the City’s objection to the Declaration of Ngim
Nancy Pe as follows: 
Objection No. 1: overruled
The Court rules on the City’s objections to the Declaration of Dan
Murdoch as follows: 
Objection No. 2: overruled
Objection No. 3: overruled
Objection No. 4: overruled 
B.   
The City’s Motion 
The Court rules on Caltrans’s evidentiary
objections as follows: 
Objection No. 1: overruled
Objection No. 2: overruled
Objection No. 3: sustained
Objection No. 4: overruled
Objection No. 5: overruled
Objection No. 6: sustained
Objection No. 7: overruled
Objection No. 8: overruled 
Objection No. 9: overruled[2]
Objection No. 10: overruled
Objection No. 11: overruled
Objection No. 12: overruled
Objection No. 13: sustained 
Objections to City’s Amended Opposition to
Separate Statement of Undisputed Facts 
On March 14, 2024, the Court issued a minute order in this action providing,
inter alia, that “[t]here is no tentative. The Court did not
receive all the requisite bidners [sic]. Hearing on Motion for Summary Judgment
is continued to 04/09/24 at 10:00 AM in Department 50 at Stanley Mosk
Courthouse. The City will retrieve the old binders and lodge new complete
binders with the evidence included that was identified in the notice of errata
by 4:00p.m. on March 15, 2024.” 
On March 15, 2024, the City filed an “Amended Opposition to Separate
Statement of Undisputed Material Facts in Support of Motion for Summary
Judgment by Defendant the People of the State of California.” Caltrans objects
to this amended opposition. As noted by Caltrans, although the Court continued
the hearing date on the motions to allow the parties to provide courtesy copies
in binders to the Court, the Court did not make an order allowing the City to
file late papers. Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (b)(2), “[a]n opposition to the motion
shall be served and filed not less than 14 days preceding the noticed or
continued date of hearing, unless the court for good cause orders otherwise.”
Thus, the Court grants Caltrans’s request that the Court strike
the City’s March 15, 2024 Amended Opposition to Separate Statement of
Undisputed Material Facts in Support of Motion for Summary Judgment by
Defendant the People of the State of California.
Legal Standard 
“[A] motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.” (Id., section
437c, subd. (c).) “A party may move for
summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action, one
or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more
issues of duty, if the party contends that the cause of action has no merit, that
there is no affirmative defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit
to an affirmative defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to
a claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of
the Civil Code, or that one or more defendants either owed or did not owe a
duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs. A motion for summary adjudication shall be
granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative
defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.” (Id., section 437c, subd. (f)(1).) 
The moving party bears the initial burden of production to
make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) If
the moving party carries this burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party
to make a prima facie showing that a triable issue of material fact exists. (Ibid.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support
of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the
evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold
Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th
384, 389.) 
Allegations of the Pleadings 
A.   
Allegations of the City’s Complaint 
In the Complaint, the City alleges that “in or about the year
2000, Caltrans completed a Mitigated Negative Declaration to widen Interstate
5…in order to accommodate the High Occupancy Vehicle…lanes on said highway
between State Route 118 and State Route 134…” (Compl., ¶ 8.) This project was
called the Interstate 5 North Capacity Enhancements Project, with segment 3
called the Empire Interchange Project (referred to in the Complaint as the
“Project”). (Compl., ¶ 8.) “[I]n or about August 2012, Caltrans completed,
approved, and advertised construction plans for the Project…” (Compl., ¶ 11.)
The City alleges that real property owned by the City (referred to in the
Complaint as the “Subject Property”) is needed for the Project. (Compl., ¶¶ 6,
11.) 
The City alleges that “[o]n or about May 14, 2014, Caltrans
commenced the Project and took actual, physical possession of the Subject
Property without the permission of the City and without payment of just
compensation.” (Compl., ¶ 14.) The City further alleges that “[s]ince then,
Caltrans has moved its equipment and improvements onto the Subject Property
pursuant to the Project, causing damage to the existing improvement and utility
facilities owned, operated, and maintained by the City, preventing City access
to the Subject Property, and commenced removal and destruction of the
improvements and utility facilities owned by the City.” (Compl., ¶ 15.) The
City seeks, inter alia, a “judicial determination of its and Caltrans’
respective rights and duties concerning the Subject Property.” (Compl., ¶ 21.) 
B.   
Allegations of Caltrans’s Cross-Complaint 
In the Cross-Complaint, Caltrans alleges that “[o]n April 26,
2021, a complaint was filed by plaintiff City against cross-complainant State
of California and others, which seeks declaratory relief relating to…certain
real property,” which is described in the Cross-Complaint as the “Subject
Property.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 7.) Caltrans alleges that “[o]n or about June 3,
1963…the State of California recorded a ‘Relinquishment of Highway Right of
Way’ (‘Relinquishment’) concerning the Subject Property,” and that “[p]er the
terms of the Relinquishment, the City acquired the Subject Property ‘for use as
city streets.’” (Cross-Compl., ¶¶ 9-10.)
 Caltrans further alleges in
the Cross-Complaint that “[o]n December 1, 2017, the City recorded a ‘Vacation
Resolution’ (‘Vacation’),” and that “[p]er the Vacation, the City’s council
found, via resolution, that certain streets, including the Subject Property,
were ‘unnecessary for present or prospective public street purposes’ and that
said streets including the Subject Property, were vacated.” (Cross-Compl., ¶¶
15-16.) Caltrans seeks, inter alia, “a declaration from the court
regarding the rights, title, obligations, covenants, obligation, easements,
prescriptions, limitations, conditions subsequent, and/or other restrictions or
limitation existing on the Subject Property as a result of the Relinquishment
and Vacation of the City and the State of California…” (Cross-Compl., Prayer
for Relief, ¶ 1.)  
 
Caltrans’s Motion for Summary Judgment, or, in
the Alternative, for Summary Adjudication
A.   
Procedural
Arguments 
As an initial matter, Caltrans
asserts in its reply in support of the motion that “[t]he City opposes
the State’s MSJ by incorporating by reference the statement of undisputed facts
and evidence from its own MSJ. This is contrary to CRC, Rule
3.1350. As such, the City has proffered no evidence to oppose the State’s
MSJ. That alone is a basis to grant the State’s MSJ.”  (Reply at p. 2:20-23.) However, the Court
notes that Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (b)(7) provides that “[a]n incorporation by reference of a matter in the court’s
file shall set forth with specificity the exact matter to which reference is
being made and shall not incorporate the entire file.” Thus, the Court does not
find that the City’s incorporation by reference of evidence in support of the
City’s motion is grounds to grant the State’s motion. 
In addition, in its opposition to Caltrans’s
motion, the City notes that “Caltrans’ separate statement fails to list
separate headlines for each issue it seeks summary adjudication.” (Opp’n at p.
25, fn. 3.) The City cites to California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1350, subd. (d), which provides in part
that “[t]he Separate Statement of
Undisputed Material Facts in support of a motion must separately identify: (A) Each cause of action, claim for damages, issue of duty, or
affirmative defense that is the subject of the motion; and (B) Each supporting material fact claimed to be without dispute with
respect to the cause of action, claim for damages, issue of duty, or
affirmative defense that is the subject of the motion.” However, the City does
not appear to request that the Court deny Caltrans’s motion on the grounds that
Caltrans’ separate statement fails to list separate headlines for
each issue, and the Court declines to do
so. 
The Court notes that in Truong v.
Glasser (2009) 181 Cal.App.4th 102, 118, the Court of Appeal found that “even if some additional
headings had been required, the court’s power to deny summary judgment on the
basis of failure to comply with California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1350 is discretionary, not
mandatory. The facts critical to the ruling were adequately identified, and
Plaintiffs have not explained how any alleged deficiency in Glasser’s separate
statement of material facts impaired Plaintiffs’ ability to marshal evidence to
show that material facts were in dispute as to the proper application of the
statute of limitations. We conclude the trial court did not abuse its
discretion by declining to reject the summary judgment motion based on the
absence of headings within the separate statement of material facts.” (Internal
citations omitted.) Here too, the City does not
explain how any deficiency in Caltrans’s separate statement impaired their
ability to respond to the motion. In addition, Caltrans’s notice of motion sets
forth the issues on which Caltrans seeks summary adjudication. (Caltrans’s
Notice of Motion at pp. ii:16-iii:2.) 
B.   
Caltrans’s
Issues No. 1 and 2 
Caltrans’s notice of
motion indicates that Caltrans seeks summary adjudication of “Issue 1,” and
Issue 2,” which both state that “[t]he City has no defense against the
State’s first cause of action for Declaratory Relief because the undisputed
facts establish that; [sic] (1) the State transferred the underlying property
to the City while retaining certain property rights, e.g. a deed restriction to
use the property as a street and ingress and egress rights to the property; and
(2) the City’s vacation was void…” (Caltrans’s Notice of Motion at p. ii:16-25.)

            In
the first cause of action for declaratory relief in the Cross-Complaint,
Caltrans alleges that “[t]he State of California is informed and
believes that the Relinquishment established by law pursuant to California Streets and Highways Code Section 73 a
covenant, obligation, easement, prescription, limitation, condition subsequent,
and/or other restriction or limitation on the Subject Property requiring the
City to maintain the Subject Property as a street.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 23.)
Caltrans further alleges that “the Relinquishment reserved to the State of
California certain property rights, including the rights of ingress and egress,
to the Subject Property.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 25.) 
 Caltrans alleges that “[a]n
actual controversy exists between cross-complainant State of California and all
cross-defendants, specifically including the City, concerning the legal rights
of the City and the State of California to the Subject Property, particularly
the nature and/or existence of any covenant, obligation, easement,
prescription, limitation, condition subsequent, and/or other restriction or
limitation to maintain the Subject Property as a street,” and that “[a]n actual
controversy exists between cross-complainant State of California and all
cross-defendants, specifically including the City, concerning the legal rights
of the State of California to the Subject Property, particularly the existence
of any all rights of ingress and egress to the Subject Property.”
(Cross-Compl., ¶¶ 26-27.) 
            In the
motion, Caltrans asserts that “the 1963 Relinquishment reserved to the
State all rights of ingress and egress to the Subject Property and adjacent
properties.” (Mot. at p. 5:7-8.) Exhibit “B” to Caltrans’s RJN is a document
titled “Relinquishment of Highway Right of Way in the City of Burbank Road
VII-L.A-4-Brb” (herein, the “Relinquishment”). (Caltrans’s RJN, ¶ 2, Ex. B.) The
Relinquishment appears to indicate that it was recorded on June 3, 1963. (Ibid.) 
            The Relinquishment provides, inter
alia, as follows: 
 
“WHEREAS, the
California Highway Commission on July 20, 1944, and on December 17, 1952
adopted resolutions declaring certain sections of State highways in the City of
Burbank between Glendale Boulevard in the City of Los Angeles and Jackson
Street in the City of Burbank, roads VII-L.A-4,161-LA,Gndl,Brb, to be freeways;
and 
 
WHEREAS, the
State of California has acquired rights of way for and has constructed frontage
roads and relocated, reconstructed or otherwise altered city streets, in the
City of Burbank, between Providencia Avenue and San Fernando Road, road
VII-L.A-4-Brb, in connection with said freeway; and 
 
WHEREAS, by
freeway agreement dated July 12, 1962, between the City of Burbank and the
State of California, the City agreed to accept control and maintenance of said
frontage roads and relocated, reconstructed or otherwise altered city streets
and to accept title thereto, upon relinquishment thereof to said city by the
State of California; and 
 
WHEREAS, by two
agreements dated July 26, 1956 between the City of Burbank and the State of
California, the city agreed to assume control and maintenance of those portions
of altered Olive Avenue, Magnolia Boulevard and Burbank Boulevard upon
relinquishment thereof to said city by the State of California; and 
 
WHEREAS, this
Commission has found and determined, and does hereby find and determine, that
it is desirable and in the public interest that said frontage roads and
relocated, reconstructed or otherwise altered city streets be relinquished to
the City of Burbank for use as city streets;
 
NOW, THEREFORE,
IT IS VOTED by the California Highway Com-mission that it relinquish, and it
does hereby relinquish to the City of Burbank, effective upon the recordation
of a certified copy hereof with the Recorder of Los Angeles County, those
certain frontage roads and relocated, reconstructed or otherwise altered city
streets in said City of Burbank, together with the right of way and
appurtenances thereof, more particularly described as follows:…” (Caltrans’s
RJN, ¶ 2, Ex. B, emphasis added.)
The Relinquishment further provides, “EXCEPTING and RESERVING to
the State of California any and all rights of ingress to and egress from the
highway hereby relinquished in and to the adjoining freeway lying Northeasterly
of said relin-quished highway, except at such points as now are or may be
established by resolution of this Commission.” (Caltrans’s RJN, ¶ 2, Ex. B,
emphasis added.) In addition, the Relinquishment provides that “[t]he purpose
of this resolution is to vest in the City of Burbank as city streets all of the
State of California’s right, title and interest in and to the portions of the
highway right of way hereby relinquished.” (Caltrans’s
RJN, ¶ 2, Ex. B.) 
Caltrans also indicates that on December 1, 2017, a “Vacation
Resolution” was recorded, specifically, “Resolution No. 25,226,” titled a “A
Resolution of the Council of the City of Burbank Ordering the Conditional
Vacation of Front Street and Portions of Former Front Street and San Jose
Avenue Between Manolia Boulevard and Burbank Boulevard…” (herein the “Vacation
Resolution”). (Caltrans’s RJN, ¶ 4, Ex. D.) The Vacation Resolution states that
it was passed and adopted on January 20, 1998, and provides, inter alia,
that “[t]he Council of the City of Burbank finds from all of the evidence
submitted, subject to fulfillment of the conditions set forth below, the
streets as described in Exhibit ‘A’ attached hereto, and by this reference made
a part hereof, are unnecessary for present or prospective public street
purposes, and orders that said vacation, reserving certain easements, as so
described, be and it is hereby vacated.” (Ibid.)

In the motion, Caltrans asserts that the City’s vacation of the
subject property is void as it “sought to vacate the restriction that the
Subject Property be used as a street,” thus conflicting with Streets and Highways Code section 73. (Mot. at p. 5:19-21.) Streets and Highways Code section 73 provides in part
that “[r]elinquishment shall be by resolution. A
certified copy of the resolution shall be filed with the board of supervisors
or the city clerk, as the case may be. A certified copy of the resolution shall
also be recorded in the office of the recorder of the county where the land is
located and, upon its recordation, all right, title, and interest of the state
in and to that portion of any state highway shall vest in the county or city,
as the case may be, and that highway or portion thereof shall thereupon
constitute a county road or city street, as the case may be.” Caltrans
also cites to Sherwin-Williams Co. v. City of Los Angeles (1993) 4 Cal.4th 893,
897, which provides that “[i]f otherwise valid local legislation conflicts with state
law, it is preempted by such law and is void.” In the opposition, the City does not appear to dispute
that the City’s Vacation Resolution conflicts with Streets and Highways Code section 73. 
However, the City asserts that “the Subdivision Map Act provides an
option for public entities to vacate rights-of-way and easements.” (Opp’n at p.
17:15-16.) The City cites to Citizens for Responsible Equitable Environmental
Development v. City of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1032, 1046, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “under state law, local agencies may
vacate public rights-of-way and easements pursuant to the tentative and final
map approval process, without also having to comply with the notice
requirements of the [Public Streets, Highways, and Service Easements Vacation Law].”
The City cites to Government
Code section 66434, subdivision (g), which provides in part that “[a]ny public
streets or public easements to be left in effect after the subdivision shall be
adequately delineated on the map. The filing of the final map shall constitute
abandonment of all public streets and public easements not shown on the map,
provided that a written notation of each abandonment is listed by reference to
the recording data or other official record creating these public streets or
public easements and certified to on the map by the clerk of the legislative
body or the designee of the legislative body approving the map.” 
The City cites to Exhibit 4 filed with its
motion for summary judgment, “Resolution No. 28,592,” dated February 19, 2013.
(City’s RJN in Support of the City’s Motion for Summary Judgment, Ex. 4.) This
Resolution provides, inter alia, that “[t]he Burbank 2035 General
Plan (Project No. 06-0200995), together with all corrections and revisions set
forth in the Technical Errata attached hereto as Exhibit B, is hereby adopted.” (Ibid.) The City asserts
that “[t]he 2035 General Plan map did not show the Subject Property as a
street.” (City’s UMF No. 53; Coronado Decl., ¶ 4, Ex.
7, Volume 8, “BURBANK0006279.”) However, the City does not appear to
point to any evidence demonstrating that “a written
notation of each abandonment is listed by reference to the recording data or
other official record creating these public streets or public easements and
certified to on the map by the clerk of the legislative body or the designee of
the legislative body approving the map.” (Gov. Code, § 66434,
subd. (g).) 
The City also
asserts that “should Caltrans (or anyone for that matter) had
found an issue, the adequacy of the 2035 General Plan was required to be
challenged within 90 days of the effective date, or within 90 days of the date
of its adoption.” (Opp’n at p. 18:21-23.)[3] But
Caltrans’s Cross-Complaint in this action does not challenge the subject
General Plan. Rather, the City cites to the General Plan in support of its
assertion that “the vacation was proper.” (Opp’n at p. 17:3.) 
In addition, Caltrans asserts that it “disputes the City’s legal
conclusions concerning the Subdivision Map Act because the Subdivision Map Act
does not allow the City to violate [Caltrans’s] property rights.” (Reply at p.
2, fn. 2.) Caltrans cites to Civil Code section 880.240, subdivision (c), which provides that “[t]he following interests are not subject to expiration or
expiration of record pursuant to this title:…(c) An interest of the state or a local public
entity in real property.” As discussed, the subject
Relinquishment provides, inter alia, “EXCEPTING and RESERVING to the
State of California any and all rights of ingress to and egress from the
highway hereby relinquished in and to the adjoining freeway lying Northeasterly
of said relin-quished highway, except at such points as now are or may be
established by resolution of this Commission.” (Caltrans’s RJN, ¶ 2, Ex. B.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court does not find that the City has
demonstrated that “the Vacation was proper.” (Opp’n at p. 17:3.) 
In the
opposition, the City also asserts that the Relinquishment “did
not require the City to use the Subject Property solely as a City street.” (Opp’n
at p. 14:20-21.) The City asserts that “[t]here are no terms or qualifying
language attached to the relinquishment.” (Opp’n at p. 15:2-3.) But the City
does not appear to address language in the Relinquishment providing that “[t]he
purpose of this resolution is to vest in the City of Burbank as city streets
all of the State of California’s right, title and interest in and to the
portions of the highway right of way hereby relinquished.” (Caltrans’s RJN, ¶
2, Ex. B, emphasis added.) The City also argues that “[t]he parties intended to
relinquish the Subject Property to be used as a city street at the time. But
the parties also intended that the City had the absolute right to the property,
including what use would best serve the City’s purposes at a later date.”
(Opp’n at p. 20:15-17, emphasis omitted.) However, the City does not appear to
cite any evidence in support of such assertion. 

Next, the City asserts that “even if the Relinquishment Agreement
created a restriction, Caltrans’ assertions are time-barred.” (Opp’n at p.
15:8-9.) The City cites to Salazar v. Thomas (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th
467, 476, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he Legislature has not established a specific statute of
limitations for actions to quiet title. Therefore, courts refer to the
underlying theory of relief to determine the applicable period of
limitations. An inquiry into the underlying theory requires the court to
identify the nature (i.e., the ‘gravamen’) of the cause of action.” (Internal
citations omitted.) As an initial matter, the Court notes that Caltrans’s
Issues Nos. 1 and 2 concern Caltrans’s first cause of action for declaratory
relief, not Caltrans’s quiet title cause of action. 
However,
the City asserts that “[i]t appears from the Cross-Complaint that
Caltrans is arguing that a quiet title remedy is necessary because the City
allegedly violated a restriction set forth in the Relinquishment Agreement.
Assuming that the Relinquishment Agreement did establish a restriction (which
the undisputed facts show it did not), the statute of limitations to bring the
instant quiet title action is thus dictated by a breach of contract claim.”
(Opp’n at p. 15:23-27.)[4]
The City notes that there is a four-year statute of limitations applicable to
“[a]n action upon any contract…”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 337, subd. (a).) The City also
notes that there is a five-year statute of limitations applicable to “[a]n action for violation of a restriction, as defined in Section 784 of the Civil Code.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
336, subd. (b).)[5]
The City
argues that “[r]egardless of the applicable statute of
limitations (i.e. four or five years), Caltrans’ claims are barred because the
statute of limitations has run. The undisputed facts establish that any
potential claim accrued well over five years ago. More specifically, Caltrans’
notice of the breach or discovery of the violation of the alleged restriction
occurred, at the latest, eleven years ago in 2012, when Caltrans acknowledged
that the Subject Property was ‘abandoned’ in its Environmental Revalidation…As
such, the statute of limitations expired no later than six years ago[6],
before Caltrans and the City entered into the tolling agreement in October
2019.” (Opp’n at p. 16:6-13, emphasis omitted.) In support of this assertion,
the City cites to its Exhibit 12, which contains a “NEPA CEQA Re-Validation
Form” dated March 5, 2012. (Coronado Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. 12.)[7]
The seventh to last page of Exhibit 12 states, inter alia, “Identify
previous use of property:…The paved abandoned Front Street, located between
South-bound LA-5 and Parcel # 79660-1 is the portion of Caltrans’ Parcel 7 of
Relinquishment No. 226 Instrument No. 3993 Recorded 3-3-63 O.R. to the City of
Burbank.” (Ibid.) 
In the reply, Caltrans asserts that “the statute of limitations was
tolled by the City’s lawsuits.” (Reply at p. 4:14.) More specifically, Caltrans
asserts that “[s]ince the City filed its original lawsuit in 2015, any statute
of limitations was tolled for the State as of that date — and again with the
current lawsuit filed in 2021. Any statute of limitations was further tolled by
the parties’ tolling agreement in 2019. The cross-complaint was timely.” (Reply
at p. 5:2-5.) 
The parties’ Joint Stipulation of Facts filed in this action on August
9, 2023 provides, inter alia, that “[o]n June 26, 2015, the City filed
an inverse condemnation action against Caltrans, Case No. BC586271 alleging
inter alia that Streets and Highways Code section 83
did not apply to the acquisition of the Subject Property by Caltrans and that
pursuant to Streets and Highways Code 81, Caltrans
failed to give proper notice of its intent to take the Subject Property and pay
just compensation for the Subject Property.” (Caltrans’s RJN, ¶ 1, Ex. A, ¶
19.) Caltrans cites to California-American Water Co. v. Marina Coast
Water Dist. (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 748, 763, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[a]s a general rule, the filing
of a complaint tolls the statute of limitations applicable to a cross-complaint
so long as the cross-complaint is related to the original complaint and its
causes of action were not barred when the original complaint was filed. Such
a cross-complaint need only be subject-matter related to the plaintiff’s
complaint—i.e., arise out of the same occurrence … —to relate back to the date of filing the
complaint for statute of limitations purposes.” (Internal quotations,
citations, and emphasis omitted.) 
As discussed, the City contends
that the statute of limitations expired six years ago, in 2018. (Opp’n at p.
16:11-12.) However, as discussed, the parties acknowledge in their Joint
Stipulation of Facts that “[o]n June 26, 2015, the City filed an inverse
condemnation action against Caltrans, Case No. BC586271 alleging inter alia
that Streets and Highways Code section 83 did not
apply to the acquisition of the Subject Property by Caltrans and that pursuant
to Streets and Highways Code 81, Caltrans failed to
give proper notice of its intent to take the Subject Property and pay just
compensation for the Subject Property.” (Caltrans’s RJN, ¶ 1, Ex. A, ¶ 19.)
Thus, it appears that Caltrans’ Cross-Complaint in the instant action is
“related to” the City’s 2015 action. (Ibid.) The Court does not find that the City has shown
that Caltrans’s first cause of action for declaratory relief is barred by the
statute of limitations. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Caltrans has met its
burden of demonstrating that it is entitled to summary adjudication on its
first cause of action for declaratory relief, as Caltrans has demonstrated that
it has “rights of ingress and egress to the Subject Property,” (Cross-Compl., ¶
27), and that there is a “restriction or limitation to maintain the Subject
Property as a street.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 26.) As discussed, the subject
Relinquishment provides that “EXCEPTING and RESERVING to the State of
California any and all rights of ingress to and egress from the highway hereby
relinquished in and to the adjoining freeway lying Northeasterly of said
relin-quished highway, except at such points as now are or may be established
by resolution of this Commission.” (Caltrans’s RJN, ¶ 2, Ex. B.) In addition,
the Relinquishment provides that “[t]he purpose of this resolution is to vest
in the City of Burbank as city streets all of the State of California’s right,
title and interest in and to the portions of the highway right of way hereby
relinquished.” (Ibid.) Further, the Court
does not find that the City has shown that its vacation of the subject property
was not void. The Court does not find that the City has raised a triable issue
of material fact as to Caltrans’s first cause of action for declaratory relief.

Lastly, the Court notes that Caltrans also appears to argue that “the
State is entitled to quiet title as to the Subject Property” because “[t]he
City’s attempts to vacate the Subject Property were void.” (Mot. at p. 7:3-5.)
Caltrans does not appear to cite to supporting legal authority demonstrating
why it is entitled to quiet title as to the subject property in such
circumstances. In addition, Issues Nos. 1-3 in Caltrans’s notice of motion do
not discuss Caltrans’s cause of action for quiet title, and Caltrans does not
appear to state that it seeks summary adjudication of its cause of action for
quiet title. The Court notes that “[a] motion for
summary adjudication tenders only those issues or causes of action specified in
the notice of motion, and may only be granted as to the matters thus specified.”
(Schmidlin v. City of Palo Alto (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 728, 743-744.)
Thus, the Court denies any purported motion for summary
adjudication by Caltrans as to its cause of action for quiet title.   
C.   
Caltrans’s
Issue No. 3 
Caltrans also seeks summary adjudication of its Issue
No. 3, which states that “[t]he City’s complaint fails to state a cause
of action against the State for declaratory relief because the undisputed facts
establish that the State transferred the underlying property to the City as a
street, meaning that Streets and Highways Code Section
83 applies. Further, the City’s vacation was void and the equitable
doctrines of laches, estoppel, and unclean hands also bar the City’s recovery.”
(Caltrans’s Notice of Motion at pp. ii:26-iii:2.) 
In the City’s first cause of action for declaratory relief, the City
alleges, inter alia, that “[a]n actual controversy has arisen and now
exists between the City and Caltrans concerning the legal rights of the City to
the Subject Property. The City contends that Caltrans’ actions constitute a
taking of the Subject Property without payment of just compensation to the City
in violation of the California and United States Constitutions. The City is
informed and believes that Caltrans denies these contentions.” (Compl., ¶ 19.) 
Pursuant to Streets and Highways Code Section
83, “[a]ny public street or highway or portion
thereof which is within the boundaries of a state highway, including a
traversable highway adopted or designated as a state highway, shall constitute
a part of the right of way of such state highway without compensation being
paid therefor, and the department shall have jurisdiction thereover and
responsibility for the maintenance thereof.” (Sts. & Hy. Code, §
83.) Caltrans asserts that “[p]er statute and the 1963
Relinquishment, the Subject Property is and always was a city street for all
legal purposes.” (Mot. at p. 7:27-28.) Caltrans asserts that accordingly, “Streets and Highways Code Section 83 applies and the
State was entitled to reacquire the Subject Property without compensation.”
(Mot. at p. 8:5-6.) 
In addition, Caltrans asserts that the “[t]he Subject Property is/was
within the boundaries of the highway system.” (Mot. at p. 8, fn. 5.) Caltrans
notes that the parties’ Joint Stipulation states, inter alia, that “[o]n
or about July 20, 1944, and December 17, 1952, by resolution the California
Highway Commission declared certain routes in the City of Burbank between
Glendale Boulevard in the City of Los Angeles and Jackson Street in City of
Burbank to be freeways and/or highways, including the property at issue in this
action, commonly referred to as ‘Old Front Street’ (the ‘Subject Property’).”
(Caltrans’s RJN, ¶ 1, Ex. A, ¶ 1.) 
In addition, Caltrans’s counsel states that “[o]n April 4, 2023, I
defended the deposition of Dan Murdoch, a Deputy District Director of the
Right-Of-Way Division for District 7 for the State.” (DiPietro Decl., ¶ 8, Ex.
6.) In his deposition, Mr. Murdoch testified as follows: “Q. I am going to
scroll up to Exhibit A that’s attached to the complaint. Do you see this is a
relinquishment of highway right-of-way in the City of Burbank, it is recorded
in the official records of Los Angeles County at Book D-2050, page 565. It is
recorded on June 8th, 1963. Do you recognize this document? A. Yes…Q. Do you
have any understanding of what this relinquishment of highway right-of-way did?
A. The instrument would be a conveyance to local jurisdiction of public
rights-of-way outside of the state’s access restricted rights-of-way of what --
what was part of the freeway. Q. When you say what was part of the freeway, did
you mean that -- what do you mean by that? A. I said public rights-of-way that
were outside of the right-of-way and going to be in their local jurisdiction
were being conveyed to the City.” (DiPietro Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. 6 (Murdoch Depo.)
at pp. 23:6-24:2.) 
The City disputes that the subject property is within the boundaries
of the State highway(s). (See City’s Response to Caltrans’s UMF No. 34.)
The City cites to the transcript of the “Person Most Qualified Videotape
Deposition…City of Burbank – David Kriske.” (Coronado Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. 13.) The
City notes that Mr. Kriske testified that “A. The right-of-way maps showing the
boundary of the existing state highway system and its relationship to this
subject property and then showing the new boundary of the state highway system
that crosses across much of old Front Street, and that polygon being identified
as a right-of-way that needed to be brought into the project.” (Coronado Decl.,
¶ 10, Ex. 13 (Kriske Depo.) at p. 90:2-7.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that the City has raised a
triable issue of material fact regarding whether the subject property is “within the boundaries of a state highway…” (Sts. & Hy. Code, § 83.) Thus,
the Court does not find that Caltrans has demonstrated that it is entitled to
summary adjudication on the City’s cause of action for declaratory relief.   
City’s Motion for Summary Judgment 
1.    
City’s Complaint 
The City asserts that “[t]he City is entitled to judgment on its
Complaint because the undisputed facts establish that California
Streets and Highways Code Section 83 does not apply to the property at
issue and Caltrans therefore did not have a right to take the property at issue
without just compensation…” (Notice of Motion at p. 2:11-13.) As discussed, Streets and Highways Code section 83
provides that “[a]ny public street or highway or
portion thereof which is within the boundaries of a state highway, including a
traversable highway adopted or designated as a state highway, shall constitute
a part of the right of way of such state highway without compensation being
paid therefor, and the department shall have jurisdiction thereover and
responsibility for the maintenance thereof.” (Sts. & Hy. Code, §
83.) 
The City asserts that the subject property is no longer a “public
street.” (Mot. at p. 16:8.) The City asserts that on January 20, 1998, the City
vacated the Subject Property through Resolution No. 25,226. The City notes that
the parties’ Joint Stipulation in this action provides, inter alia, that
“[o]n January 20, 1998, the City Council adopted Resolution No. 25,226 to
vacate the uses of ‘Old’ Front Street (including the Subject Property) as a
city street.” (Coronado Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. 6, ¶ 8.) As
set forth above, the City’s “Vacation Resolution,” (Resolution No. 25,226)
provides, inter alia, that “[t]he Council of the City of Burbank finds
from all of the evidence submitted, subject to fulfillment of the conditions
set forth below, the streets as described in Exhibit ‘A’ attached hereto, and
by this reference made a part hereof, are unnecessary for present or
prospective public street purposes, and orders that said vacation, reserving
certain easements, as so described, be and it is hereby vacated.” (Coronado Decl.,
¶ 4, Ex. 7, Volume 5, “BURBANK0002033.”) 
The City also asserts that it “had further authority to vacate the
Subject Property aside from Resolution No. 25, 266.” (Mot. at p. 17:4-5.) In Citizens for
Responsible Equitable Environmental Development v. City
of San Diego, supra,
184 Cal.App.4th at page 1045, cited by the City, the Court of Appeal noted
that “it is clear that state law permits public entities to
vacate rights-of-way and easements pursuant to either the Subdivision Map Act or the [ Public Streets, Highways, and Service
Easements Vacation Law].” (Emphasis omitted.) The
City cites to Government Code section 66434, subdivision (g), which, as set forth above, provides in part
that “[a]ny public streets or public easements to be left in
effect after the subdivision shall be adequately delineated on the map. The
filing of the final map shall constitute abandonment of all public streets and
public easements not shown on the map, provided that a written notation of each
abandonment is listed by reference to the recording data or other official
record creating these public streets or public easements and certified to on
the map by the clerk of the legislative body or the designee of the legislative
body approving the map.” 
As discussed above, the City cites to its
“Resolution No. 28,592,” dated February 19, 2023. (City’s RJN, Ex. 4.) This
Resolution provides, inter alia, that “[t]he Burbank 2035 General
Plan (Project No. 06-0200995), together with all corrections and revisions set
forth in the Technical Errata attached hereto as Exhibit B, is hereby adopted.” (Ibid.) The City asserts
that “[t]he 2035 General Plan map did not show the Subject Property as a
street.” (City’s UMF No. 53; Coronado Decl., ¶ 4, Ex.
7, Volume 8, “BURBANK0006279.”) However, the City’s motion does not
appear to cite to evidence demonstrating that “a written
notation of each abandonment is listed by reference to the recording data or
other official record creating these public streets or public easements and
certified to on the map by the clerk of the legislative body or the designee of
the legislative body approving the map.” (Gov. Code, § 66434,
subd. (g).) 
As discussed, Caltrans asserts that the City’s vacation of the subject
property was void, as it “conflicts with Cal. Sts.
& High. Code section 73…i.e. it sought to vacate the restriction that
the Subject Property be used as a street.” (Opp’n at p. 8:18-20.) As discussed,
Streets and Highways Code section 73 provides in
part that “[r]elinquishment shall be by resolution. A
certified copy of the resolution shall be filed with the board of supervisors
or the city clerk, as the case may be. A certified copy of the resolution shall
also be recorded in the office of the recorder of the county where the land is
located and, upon its recordation, all right, title, and interest of the state
in and to that portion of any state highway shall vest in the county or city,
as the case may be, and that highway or portion thereof shall thereupon
constitute a county road or city street, as the case may be.” 
As set forth above, the parties agree that “[o]n January 20, 1998, the
City Council adopted Resolution No. 25,226 to vacate the uses of ‘Old’ Front
Street (including the Subject Property) as a city street.” (Coronado Decl., ¶
3, Ex. 6, ¶ 8.) Caltrans cites to Sherwin-Williams Co. v. City of Los
Angeles, supra, 4 Cal.4th at page 897, which provides, as set forth above, that “[i]f otherwise valid local legislation conflicts with state
law, it is preempted by such law and is void.” In the reply, the City
does not appear to dispute that the subject Resolution No. 25,226 conflicts
with Streets and Highways Code section 73. 
Caltrans also argues that the City’s vacation of the subject property
“conflicts with Civil Code section 880.240(c) because
a State’s interest in real property never expires.” (Opp’n at p. 8:24-25.) Caltrans
also asserts that “the Subdivision Map Act does not allow the City to violate
the State’s property rights…” (Opp’n at p. 10:3-4, citing Civ. Code, § 880.240, subd. (c).)[8] 
Pursuant to Civil Code section 880.240, subdivision (c), “[t]he following interests are not subject to expiration or
expiration of record pursuant to this title:…(c) An interest of the state or a local public
entity in real property.” In the reply, the City asserts that “Civil Code 880.240, subdivision (c) is inapplicable
because Caltrans had vested all right, title, and interest in the City.” (Reply
at p. 8:8-9.) But as discussed, the Relinquishment provides, inter alia,
 “EXCEPTING and RESERVING to the State of
California any and all rights of ingress to and egress from the highway hereby
relinquished in and to the adjoining freeway lying Northeasterly of said
relin-quished highway, except at such points as now are or may be established
by resolution of this Commission.” (Caltrans’s RJN, ¶ 2, Ex. B.) The City does
not appear to address this point in the reply. 
The City also
asserts that “[r]egardless of when the City recorded the notice
of vacation, Caltrans had conspicuous notice that the City had abandoned the
public street on the Subject Property throughout the Project.” (Mot. at p.
19:3-4.) But the City does not cite to any legal authority demonstrating that
any such notice would mean that the subject property is not a “public street”
for purposes of Streets and Highways Code section 83.[9] (See
Mot. at pp. 19:4-20:2.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court does not find that the City has
demonstrated that “the subject property is no longer a public street.” (Mot. at
p. 16:8.)   
The City also asserts that “[t]he Subject Property is not within the
boundaries of a state highway.” (Mot. at p. 20:5.) As discussed, the City cites
to the deposition transcript of Mr. Kriske, which provides, inter alia,
that “A. The right-of-way maps showing the boundary of the existing state
highway system and its relationship to this subject property and then showing
the new boundary of the state highway system that crosses across much of old
Front Street, and that polygon being identified as a right-of-way that needed
to be brought into the project.” (Coronado Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. 13 (Kriske Depo.) at
p. 90:2-7.) 
The City also asserts that “[s]ection 83 would be applicable to the
Subject Property if it was a traversable highway. However, that is not the
case. This is because the Subject Property is land-locked.” (Mot. at p.
20:20-21.) The City cites to, inter alia, the following testimony from
Mr. Kriske’s deposition: “Q. So could anybody access old Front Street from 1998
until the HOV -- I-5 HOV project?...A. The only way to get onto old Front
Street would be to encroach across or trespass across private property, either
City or private property. There was no vehicular public access from any street
to old Front Street on or about -- it probably would have been around 2000 when
new Front Street was opened, ‘99 or 2000.” 
(Coronado Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. 13 (Kriske Depo.) at pp. 55:19-56:4.) 
In the opposition, Caltrans counters that the evidence establishes
that the subject property was within the boundaries of the state highway. As
discussed, Caltrans notes that in his deposition, Mr. Murdoch testified as
follows: “Q. I am going to scroll up to Exhibit A that’s attached to the
complaint. Do you see this is a relinquishment of highway right-of-way in the
City of Burbank, it is recorded in the official records of Los Angeles County
at Book D-2050, page 565. It is recorded on June 8th, 1963. Do you recognize
this document? A. Yes…Q. Do you have any understanding of what this
relinquishment of highway right-of-way did? A. The instrument would be a
conveyance to local jurisdiction of public rights-of-way outside of the state’s
access restricted rights-of-way of what -- what was part of the freeway. Q.
When you say what was part of the freeway, did you mean that -- what do you
mean by that? A. I said public rights-of-way that were outside of the
right-of-way and going to be in their local jurisdiction were being conveyed to
the City.” (DiPietro Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. L (Murdoch Depo.) at pp. 23:6-24:2.)[10] 
In addition, Caltrans asserts that “[t]he Subject Property was also
not ‘landlocked’. There was access to the Subject Property.” (Opp’n at p. 6:23.)
Caltrans cites to the City’s Declaration of Jack D. McGregor, in which Mr.
McGregor states that “[t]he Subject Property was closed off at Burbank
Boulevard and Magnolia Boulevard, with the only access from a driveway on New
Front Street.” (McGregor Decl., ¶ 3.)[11]
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Caltrans has raised a
triable issue of material fact as to whether the subject property is “within the boundaries of a state highway, including a
traversable highway adopted or designated as a state highway...” (Sts.
& Hy. Code, § 83.) Thus, the Court does not find that the
City has demonstrated that it is entitled to summary judgment on its Complaint.

 
2.    
Caltrans’s Cross-Complaint 
            The City also asserts that it is
“entitled to judgment on Caltrans’ Cross-Complaint because the undisputed facts
establish that Caltrans has no right to forfeiture as neither the
Relinquishment Agreement nor any statute creates a condition or forfeiture
right. Even if the Relinquishment Agreement did create a right to forfeiture,
such right is barred by the Statute of Limitations.” (City’s Notice of Motion
at p. 2:14-17.) In addition, the City asserts that “[e]ven if the Court
entertains the possibility that Section 73 or the
Relinquishment Agreement creates a forfeiture right, Caltrans has no right of
reversion because the statute of limitations to enforce any alleged violation
has run.” (Mot. at p. 22:15-17.) 
            As an initial matter, the Court
notes that the City moves for “summary judgment” on Caltrans’s Cross-Complaint.
(City’s Notice of Motion at p. 2:6-8.) However, none of the three causes of
action alleged in the Cross-Complaint appear to specifically allege a “right to
forfeiture” by Caltrans. (See Cross-Complaint.) 
The City also asserts in the motion that “once a property is
relinquished, all right, title, and interest in the property is transferred
from the State to the City. Contrary to Caltrans’ claims, the undisputed facts
here show that the relinquishment did not create a condition, covenant, or
restriction. As such, Caltrans’ claims and attempt to ‘quiet title’ fail.”
(Mot. at p. 22:10-13.) In addition, in the portion of the City’s motion arguing
that “any right to forfeiture is barred by the statute of limitations,” the
City asserts that “the statute of limitations to bring the instant quiet title
action is…dictated by a breach of contract claim.” (Mot. at pp. 22:14; 23:4-5.)
Thus, it appears that the City’s arguments concerning Caltrans’s
Cross-Complaint concern the third cause of action for quiet title. But the
City’s motion (and notice of motion) do not state that the City moves for
summary adjudication as to the third cause of action of Caltrans’s
Cross-Complaint. In Schmidlin v. City of Palo Alto, supra,
157 Cal.App.4th at pages 743-744, the Court of Appeal found as follows: 
 
“A motion
for summary adjudication tenders only those issues or causes of action
specified in the notice of motion, and may only be granted as to the matters
thus specified. The movant must ‘state[] specifically in the notice of motion
and … repeat[], verbatim, in the separate statement of undisputed material
facts,’ ‘the specific cause of action, affirmative defense, claims for damages,
or issues of duty’ as to which summary adjudication is sought. (Cal. Rules of Court, former rule 342(b); see now Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1350(b).) The motion must be denied if the movant
fails to establish an entitlement to summary adjudication of the matters thus
specified; the court cannot summarily adjudicate other issues or claims, even
if a basis to do so appears from the papers. (See Gonzales v. Superior Court (1987) 189 Cal. App. 3d
1542, 1546 [235 Cal. Rptr. 106] [‘‘If a party desires
adjudication of particular issues or subissues, that party must make its
intentions clear in the motion… .’ [Citation.] There is a sound
reason for this rule: ‘… the opposing party may have decided to raise only one
triable issue of fact in order to defeat the motion, without intending to
concede the other issues. It would be unfair to grant a summary adjudication
order unless the opposing party was on notice that an issue-by-issue
adjudication might be ordered if summary judgment was denied’ ”].)
The Court does not find that the City has met its burden of
demonstrating that each of the causes of action of Caltrans’s Cross-Complaint
are without merit. Thus, the Court denies the City’s motion for summary
judgment on Caltrans’s Cross-Complaint.  
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the Court denies
Caltrans’s motion for summary judgment. The Court grants Caltrans’s motion for
summary adjudication as to Caltrans’s Issues Nos. 1 and 2, that “[t]he
City has no defense against the State’s first cause of action for Declaratory
Relief.” Caltrans’s motion for summary adjudication is denied as to Caltrans’s
Issue No. 3, as well as any purported motion for summary adjudication by Caltrans
as to its cause of action for quiet title. 
The Court denies the City’s motion for summary judgment on the City’s
Complaint. The Court also denies the City’s motion for summary judgment on
Caltrans’s Cross-Complaint.
Caltrans is ordered to give notice of this
Order. 
 
DATED:  May 2, 2024                                   ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 


