


[1]As set forth above, Caltrans’s
Cross-Complaint against the City alleges three causes of action for 
(1) declaratory relief, (2) injunctive
relief, and (3) quiet title. 
 


[2]The Court notes
that in the case cited by Caltrans, Great American Ins. Cos. v. Gordon Trucking, Inc. (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 445, 450, the Court of Appeal found that “[a]t
the trial or any other hearing in the action, so far as admissible under the
rules of evidence, the propounding party or any party other than the responding party may
use any answer or part of an answer to an interrogatory only against the responding party.’ (Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.410, italics added.) Thus,
the responding party may not use its own interrogatory responses in its own
favor.” (Emphasis in original.) Thus, the Court does not see how this case is
relevant to the City’s Exhibit 7. 


[3]The City cites to Government Code section 65009,
subdivision (c), which provides in part that “[e]xcept as
provided in subdivision (d), no action or proceeding shall be maintained in any
of the following cases by any person unless the action or proceeding is
commenced and service is made on the legislative body within 90 days after the
legislative body’s decision: (A) To attack, review, set aside, void, or annul
the decision of a legislative body to adopt or amend a general or specific
plan.” (Gov. Code, § 65009, subd. (c)(1)(A).)


[4]In the third cause of action for quiet title, Caltrans
alleges, inter alia, that “[t]he State of California is informed and
believes that the Relinquishment reserved to the State of California certain
property rights, including the rights of ingress and egress, to the Subject
Property.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 40.) 
Caltrans further alleges that “the Vacation by the City constitutes an
adverse claim against the State of California’s rights to and on the Subject
Property...” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 41.) 
 


[5]Pursuant to Civil Code section 784, “‘Restriction,’ when used in
a statute that incorporates this section by reference, means a limitation on,
or provision affecting, the use of real property in a deed, declaration, or
other instrument, whether in the form of a covenant, equitable servitude,
condition subsequent, negative easement, or other form of restriction.” 
 


[6]As noted by Caltrans in the reply, “[t]he City states
that the statute of limitations would have run six years ago, i.e. 2018.”
(Reply at p. 5:1-2.) 
 


[7]In her supporting declaration, the City’s counsel
states that “[a] true and correct copy of Exhibit 36 from Jason Roach’s
deposition is attached as Exhibit 12. This exhibit was also produced by
Caltrans in its document production on December 29, 2022.” (Coronado Decl., ¶
9.)


[8]Caltrans also argues, “[n]or could the City vacate the
State’s rights of ingress and egress.” (Opp’n at p. 9:25, citing Civ. Code, § 880.240, subd. (c).)


[9]As discussed, Streets and
Highways Code section 83 provides that “[a]ny
public street or highway or portion thereof which is within the boundaries of a
state highway, including a traversable highway adopted or designated as a state
highway, shall constitute a part of the right of way of such state highway
without compensation being paid therefor, and the department shall have
jurisdiction thereover and responsibility for the maintenance thereof.” (Sts.
& Hy. Code, § 83.)
 


[10]The City also asserts without citing to supporting
evidence that “the Subject Property never carried traffic directly to the
freeway, e.g. it was never a shared Caltrans frontage road that served freeway
traffic directly.” (Mot. at p. 20:11-12.) 
 


[11]Mr. McGregor is “the consultant program manager for
the Empire Interchange Project, which is Segment 3 of the Interstate 5 North
Capacity Enhancements Project (the “Project”), on behalf of the City of
Burbank.” (McGregor Decl., ¶ 1.) 

