 Case Number:  23STCV22893    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant
Dawn Suskin’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories
            Defendant
Dawn Suskin moves to compel plaintiff FirstService Residential California, LLC
to serve further responses to form interrogatories, general, Nos. 9.1, 12.1, 12.2, and 50.1-50.6.  A party may move to compel further responses
to interrogatories when an answer “is evasive or incomplete” (CCP §
2030.300(a)(1)) or an objection “is without merit or too general” (id.,
subd. (a)(3)).
Verification
Defendant argues plaintiff improperly verified the responses based on
information and belief.  Doing so was
proper.  “It is common sense when
discovery requests are propounded on a business, particularly a large business,
no single person is likely to have personal knowledge of everything the
business collectively knows.  Rather than
have the business respond with a chaotic multitude of verifications from every
employee who knows anything relevant, the business is permitted to authorize an
agent to verify the responses on the business’s collective behalf.  [Citation.] 
The agent does not have personal knowledge of everything included in the
responses; the business itself does.  Generally,
this means the agent will sign the verification based on information and
belief.  ‘Under such circumstances,
“information and belief” is the only realistic way to verify answers on behalf
of the entity.’  [Citation.]  This is entirely proper and what occurred in
this case.”  (Perry v. Kia Motors
America, Inc. (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 1088, 1097.)
Defendant argues the above authority is dicta because the Court of
Appeal reviewed an order excluding testimony, not a discovery order.  (Reply, pp. 2-3.)  Regardless, the opinion is persuasive.  As it states, the issue is a matter of common
sense.  Plaintiff’s verification is
proper and authorized under Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.250(b).  Defendant also argues a verification on
information and belief reduces the value of the responses as evidence.  (Reply, p. 3.)  That does not modify plaintiff’s obligations
under the Civil Discovery Act.
Waiver of Objections
Defendant argues plaintiff did not serve its response on time and
therefore waived its objections. 
(Separate Statement, p. 4.)  The reply
brief includes a heading, “FSR Ignores the Fact It Waived Its Objections.”  (Reply, p. 2.)  Defendant ignores the fact that FSR did not
make any objections. 
Evasive or Incomplete Responses
            Plaintiff
gave incomplete or evasive responses to each disputed interrogatory. Form
interrogatory No. 9.1 asks plaintiff to describe “any other damages”, including
“the amount.”  Plaintiff answered that it
suffered “[l]ost profits on a contract which had been in place for more than a
decade.”  As to No. 9.1(c), the amount,
plaintiff answered, “This is [sic] amount is currently being calculated and
this response will be amended when the analysis has been completed.”  
Plaintiff’s answer to No. 9.1(c) is
incomplete.  “If only partial answers can
be supplied, the answers should reveal all information then available to the
party.  If a person cannot furnish
details, he should set forth the efforts made to secure the information.  He cannot plead ignorance to information which
can be obtained from sources under his control.”  (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84
Cal.App.3d 771, 782.)  Promising to
answer in the future is incomplete and evasive. 
Plaintiff has the power to calculate or at least estimate its lost
profits.  It answered only in generic and
conclusory fashion that it needs more time to answer.  Plaintiff did not state, for example, how
it is currently calculating its lost profits. 

Plaintiff gave incomplete responses to Nos.
12.1 and 12.2.  Both questions ask plaintiff
to identify witnesses and state their contact information.  Plaintiff’s answers specifically identified
several people with their contact information, but also gave some names without
contact information.  Plaintiff argues it
“provide[d] the names, and these individuals should be contacted care of
FirstService’s counsel.”  (Opp., p.
8.)  Even if these employees are
represented parties under Rules of Professional Conduct rule 2-100(B), that is
a rule of professional ethics—not discovery. 
Giving complete answers requires stating their contact information, or
so much of it as plaintiff knows or can learn from sources in its control.  (See CCP § 2030.220(c).)    
The response to No. 12.1 is also evasive for
another reason.  The answer included
names, followed by “and the FSR staff assigned to Playa Vista in the third
quarter of 2022.”  Plaintiff argues it is
not required to specify those staff because the information is equally
available to defendant, and “only she is fully aware of” the answer.  (Opp., p. 7.) 
Plaintiff fails to show only Suskin is fully aware of which of
plaintiff’s staff were assigned to that client. 
Plaintiff is “FSR” and must know information about its own staff
assignments.
Assuming Suskin does know that information, one
cannot “refus[e] to answer an interrogatory simply upon the ground that the
answer is known to the party seeking the information.”  (Singer v. Superior Court of Contra Costa
County (1960) 54 Cal.2d 318, 324.) 
This response only applies to the extent the responding party does not
know the answer.  “If an interrogatory
cannot be answered completely, it shall be answered to the extent
possible.”  (CCP § 2030.220(b).)  “If the responding party does not have
personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party
shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the
information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where
the information is equally available to the propounding party.”  (Id., subd. (c).)  Plaintiff must answer the question at least
in part, based on its personal knowledge.
            Plaintiff
gave incomplete or evasive responses to Nos. 50.1-50.6.  No. 50.1 asks various questions “[f]or each
agreement alleged in the pleadings.” 
Plaintiff responded, “There is no allegation of a contract between
Plaintiff and Defendant alleged in the complaint.”  That answer evades the question.  It is not limited to agreements between the
parties.  Plaintiff’s first amended
complaint alleges numerous contracts.  Plaintiff
alleges a cause of action for tortious interference with contracts, including a
contract between plaintiff and Playa Vista HOA, “Playa Vista’s contract with
Seabreeze” (FAC, ¶ 22), “contracts with former FirstService employees” (¶ 63),
and “contractual relationships between FirstService and its clients” (¶ 64).  Those contracts are agreements alleged in the
pleadings.  Plaintiff must answer the
questions as to each agreement alleged.  
For Nos. 50.2-50.6, plaintiff responded only,
“N/A.”  That answer relies on the
incorrect premise that there are no agreements alleged in the pleadings.  It is evasive and incomplete.          
Sanctions
            Defendant
moves for $2,362.50 in sanctions against plaintiff and its counsel of record,
Steven Scow and Jeffrey Katz.  A court
must impose sanctions “against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.”  (CCP §§
2030.300(d).)  Plaintiff’s opposition was
almost entirely unsuccessful.  It made
evasive responses to discovery.  It did
not act with substantial justification. 
Sanctions are just under the circumstances.  Defendant reasonably incurred $2,362.50 in
expenses.
Disposition
Defendant Dawn Suskin’s motion to compel
further responses to special interrogatories is granted in part.  Plaintiff FirstService Residential California,
LLC is ordered to serve further verified responses to form
interrogatories – general Nos. 9.1, 12.1, 12.2, 50.1, 50.2, 50.3, 50.4, 50.5,
and 50.6 within 30 days.    
Plaintiff FirstService Residential California,
LLC and its counsel of record, Steven B. Scow and Jeffrey A. Katz, are ordered
to pay defendant Dawn Suskin $2,362.50 in sanctions within 30 days.  Plaintiff and its counsel of record are
jointly and severally liable for the sanctions.