 Case Number:  23STCV11610    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January 15, 2025                   TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Roberto Diaz, et al. v. Krystal Alfaro
Canty
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV11610            
 
DEMURRER
TO FIRST AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Cross-Defendants Roberto Diaz, Skin Body Lounge, LLC,
and Skin Body Lounge Med Spa, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Cross-Complainant Krystal
Alfaro Canty
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
05/22/23: Complaint filed.
·        
12/18/23: First Amended Complaint filed.
·        
02/27/24: Second Amended Complaint filed.
·        
03/28/24: Cross-Complaint filed.
·        
05/24/24: First Amended Cross-Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for breach of contract and conversion. Plaintiffs
allege that Defendant failed to adhere to an oral agreement between the parties
and misappropriated corporate assets and trade secrets. 
 
Cross-Defendants demur to the
first, fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action in the First Amended
Cross-Complaint. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Cross-Defendants’ Demurrer to the
First Amended Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED with leave to amend as to the first
cause of action and otherwise OVERRULED.
 
            Cross-Complainant
shall have 30 days leave to amend the Cross-Complaint. 
 
//
 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Cross-Defendants demur to the
first, fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action in the First Amended
Cross-Complaint. 
 
Legal Standard
 
A demurrer tests whether the
(cross-) complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) The
ultimate facts alleged in the [cross-] complaint must be deemed true, as well
as all facts that may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged. (Marshall
v. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403; see also Shields
v. County of San Diego (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 103, 133 [stating, “[o]n
demurrer, pleadings are read liberally and allegations contained therein are
assumed to be true”].) “This rule of liberal construction means that the
reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.” (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th
1228, 1238.) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who has filed the pleading subject to the demurrer and file a declaration
detailing their meet and confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a).)
However, an insufficient meet and confer process is not grounds
to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41(a)(4).)
 
Attorney Matthew J. Cave, counsel
for Cross-Defendants, states that counsel for the parties had telephonically
met and conferred regarding the original Cross-Complaint in this action.
(Declaration of Matthew J. Cave ISO Dem. ¶ 3.) Those discussions resulted in
the filing of the operative First Amended Cross-Complaint on May 24, 2024. (Id.)
Counsel for Cross-Defendants sent a meet-and-confer letter by email to
Cross-Complainant’s counsel on June 13, 2024, proposing dates for a
teleconference. (Id. ¶ 4; Exh. A.) Cross-Complainant’s counsel asked if
the proposed demurrer would be on the same grounds as discussed with respect to
the original Cross-Complaint. (Id.) Upon receiving an answer in the
affirmative, Cross-Complainant’s counsel responded “we respectfully disagree.
You can move forward with the demurrer.” (Id.) The Court therefore finds
that Cross-Defendants have satisfied their statutory meet-and-confer
obligations. 
 
First Cause of Action: Fraud
 
            Cross-Defendants
demur to the first cause of action for fraud for failure to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
 
“The elements of fraud that will
lead to a tort action are: (a) misrepresentation; (b) knowledge of falsity; (c)
intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e)
resulting damage. (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15
Cal.4th 951, 974.) Every element of the cause of action for fraud must be
alleged in the proper manner and the facts constituting the fraud must be
alleged with sufficient specificity to allow defendant[s] to understand fully
the nature of the charge made. (Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220
Cal.App.3d 59, 73.) “This particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts
which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations
were tendered.” (Ibid.) “[G]eneral and conclusory allegations do not
suffice.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) When the
facts are necessarily in the possession of the defendant, less specificity is
required, since the purpose of the specificity requirement is in part to
provide notice to the defendant of the basis for the claim. (Alfaro v.
Community Housing Improvement System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.) 
 
            The First
Amended Cross-Complaint alleges that in “early 2020,”
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Krystal Canty and Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Roberto
Diaz “agreed to go into business together to own and operate a retail personal
services business providing personal aesthetic body and face treatments and
related services to the general public.” (FAXC ¶ 1 [second]; ¶ 10 [second].) To
that end, the parties acquired Skin Body Lounge, in which Cross-Complainant
became a 10% minority owner. (FAXC ¶¶ 2[second]-3[second].) Cross-Defendant
Diaz owned the remaining 90%. (Id.) Cross-Complainant alleges that
Cross-Defendant Diaz formed a separate entity, Skin Body Med Spa, providing the
same services at the same location as Skin Body Lounge, in an effort to usurp
Cross-Complainant’s interest and profits from the first entity. (FAXC ¶¶
5[second]-6[second].)
 
With respect to the fraud cause of
action, the Cross-Complaint further alleges that “in early 2020, Diaz
specifically represented and stated that Canty will receive 10% equity and net
profits of the business.” (FAXC ¶ 11.) Cross-Complainant alleges that Cross-Defendant
Diaz “had no intention of sharing any profits” and “knew he never intended to
share any profits at the time he made those representations.” (¶¶ 16-17.) The
Cross-Complaint does not specifically allege an intent to induce reliance, but
it does allege that Cross-Complainant’s reliance on the offer to share profits
was “reasonable.” (FAXC ¶ 15.) Cross-Complainant claims that Cross-Defendant
Diaz formed a competing business entity to provide the same services while
keeping all profits for himself. (FAXC ¶¶ 18-20.) 
 
Cross-Defendants argue that the
first cause of action is inadequately pled because it does not allege any
fraudulent representations with the requisite specificity, does not allege
knowledge of falsity, and does not adequately allege intent to defraud. Cross-Complainant,
in opposition, argues that the elements of fraud are specifically pled. The
Court disagrees with Cross-Complainant with respect to the representations as
pled. A general statement that Cross-Defendant Diaz “in early 2020. . . stated
that Canty will receive 10% equity and net profits of the business” does not provide
the facts of that representation with sufficient detail as contemplated by Lazar
and its progeny. (See FAXC ¶ 11.) Moreover, as Cross-Defendants state, the
promise of an ownership share in Skin Body Lounge, as memorialized in the
alleged May 10, 2020 operating agreement, cannot support an allegation of fraud
standing on its own because Cross-Complainant admits that she received that
share of that entity. (FAXC ¶ 12; see also ¶ 3[second].) That concession does
not necessarily preclude Cross-Complainant’s allegations of a broader promise
for a 10% share in any business enterprise started by the Parties “providing
personal aesthetic body and face treatments and related services to the general
public,” (FAXC ¶ 1[second].) The Court concurs with Cross-Defendants, however,
that the allegations pertaining to that promise lack the requisite detail of
what specific statements were made, when and where they were made, and by what
means they were tendered. 
 
Accordingly, Cross-Defendants’
Demurrer to the first cause of action is SUSTAINED.
 
Fourth Cause of Action: Conversion
 
            Cross-Defendants
demur to the fourth cause of action for conversion as barred by the economic
loss rule. 
 
As the California Supreme Court
stated: “conduct amounting to a breach of contract becomes tortious only when
it also violates a duty independent of the contract arising from principles of
tort law.” (Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543, 551.) The Erlich
Court found that mere negligent breach of a contract is not sufficient to meet
this standard. (Id. at 552.) The high court explained, “[g]enerally,
outside the insurance context, a tortious breach of contract ... may be found
when (1) the breach is accompanied by a traditional common law tort, such as fraud
or conversion; (2) the means
used to breach the contract are tortious, involving deceit or undue coercion
or; (3) one party intentionally breaches the contract intending or knowing that
such a breach will cause severe, unmitigable harm in the form of mental
anguish, personal hardship, or substantial consequential damages.” (Erlich
v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543, 553-54 [internal quotations and citations
omitted, emphasis added].) The Fourth Cause of Action does not simply allege a
breach of contract by failing to distribute profits.  Instead, it contends that Cross-Defendants
“intentionally diverted” profits owed to Cross-Complainant to Cross-Defendants’
separately owned business. By the plain language of Erlich,
Cross-Complainant’s fourth cause of action for conversion is outside the scope
of the economic loss rule.
 
            Accordingly,
Cross-Defendants’ Demurrer to the fourth cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Fifth Cause of Action: Breach of Fiduciary Duty
 
            Cross-Defendants
demur to the fifth cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty for failure to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
 
            To plead a
claim for breach of fiduciary duty, a plaintiff must allege (1) the existence
of a fiduciary relationship, (2) its breach and (3) damage proximately caused
by that breach. (Meister v. Mensinger (2014) 230 Cal. App.4th 381, 395).
 
According to Cross-Defendants, this
cause of action is deficient because Cross-Defendant Diaz did not owe any
fiduciary duties to Cross-Complainant in his capacity as a member of Skin Body
Lounge, LLC. As Cross-Defendants state, under Corporations Code section
17704.09(f)(3), a member of a manager-managed limited liability company does
not have any fiduciary duty to the company or to other members merely by reason
of being a member. (Corp. Code § 17704.09(f)(3).) However, Cross-Defendants
offer nothing to support the conclusion that Skin Body Lounge is
manager-managed, rather than member-managed. Moreover, even if they had done
so, the First Amended Cross-Complaint plainly alleges that Cross-Defendant Diaz
was also a manager of Skin Body Lounge. (FAXC ¶ 46.) Cross-Defendants’
argument therefore fails to engage with the allegations pled in the operative
Cross-Complaint. 
 
Cross-Defendants also assert that the
First Amended Cross-Complaint does not allege any fiduciary duties which were
breached. The Court disagrees. The fifth cause of action alleges that
Cross-Defendant Diaz is a manager of Skin Body Lounge (FAXC ¶ 46), that
managers owe duties of loyalty and care (¶ 47; see also Corp. Code § 17704.09(f)(1)),
and that Cross-Defendant Diaz breached those duties by the acts which form the
basis of the Cross-Complaint. (FAXC ¶ 50.) These allegations are sufficient.
 
Accordingly, Cross-Defendants’
Demurrer to the fifth cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Sixth Cause of Action: Breach of Implied Covenant of Good
Faith and Fair Dealing
 
            Cross-Defendants
demur to the sixth cause of action for breach of the implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action. 
 
            “There is
an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing in every contract that
neither party will do anything which will injure the right of the other to receive
the benefits of the agreement.” (Comunale v. Traders & General Ins. Co. (1958)
50 Cal.2d 654, 658 [internal citations omitted].) “The covenant of good faith
and fair dealing, implied by law in every contract, exists merely to prevent
one contracting party from unfairly frustrating the other party’s right to
receive the benefits of the agreement actually made. The covenant thus
cannot ‘“‘be endowed with an existence independent of its contractual
underpinnings.’”’ It cannot impose substantive duties or limits on the
contracting parties beyond those incorporated in the specific terms of their
agreement.” (Guz v. Bechtel National, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317,
349-350 [internal citations omitted, emphasis in original].) 
 
            Cross-Defendants
assert that this cause of action is inadequately pled because it is merely
duplicative of Cross-Complainant’s claim for breach of contract. Not so.
Plaintiff’s second cause of action for breach of contract expressly arises
exclusively out of the May 10, 2020 written operating agreement. (FAXC ¶¶
28-34.) In contrast, the sixth cause of action, which incorporates the entirety
of the preceding allegations of the complaint, arises at least in part out of
the contention that Cross-Defendant Diaz formed a separate business entity outside
the scope of the May 10, 2020 agreement so as to frustrate Cross-Complainant’s right
to benefit from that agreement by competing with Skin Body Lounge. (See FAXC ¶¶
53-56; see also ¶¶ 1[second]-8[second]; ¶¶ 18-21.) Construed in the light most
favorable to Cross-Complainant, as required on a demurrer, the Court considers
these allegations to be sufficient to state a cause of action for breach of the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. 
 
            Accordingly,
Cross-Defendants’ Demurrer to the sixth cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
Leave to Amend
 
            When a
demurrer is sustained, the Court determines whether there is a reasonable
possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment. (Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318).  When a plaintiff “has pleaded the
general set of facts upon which his cause of action is based,” the court should
give the plaintiff an opportunity to amend his complaint, since plaintiff
should not “be deprived of his right to maintain his action on the ground that
his pleadings were defective for lack of particulars.” (Reed v. Norman
(1957) 152 Cal.App.2d 892, 900.) Accordingly, California law imposes the
burden on the plaintiffs to demonstrate the manner in which they can amend
their pleadings to state their claims against a defendant.  (Goodman
v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) “Denial of leave to amend
constitutes an abuse of discretion unless the complaint shows on its face it is
incapable of amendment.  [Citation.]  Liberality in permitting
amendment is the rule, if a fair opportunity to correct any defect has not been
given." (Angie M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217,
1227.)
 
            Cross-Complainant
has not demonstrated how the Cross-Complaint might be alleged to cure the
deficiencies identified on this demurrer. However, as the failure of the first
cause of action is rooted in the lack of specificity in the pleadings, the
Court finds that the means of amendment is facially apparent. Therefore, given
the strong presumption in favor of permitting amendment, the Court will grant
Cross-Complainant an opportunity to amend to provide more detail in support of
the fraud cause of action. 
 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Cross-Defendants’ Demurrer to the First Amended Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED
with leave to amend as to the first cause of action and otherwise OVERRULED.
 
            Cross-Complainant
shall have 30 days leave to amend the Cross-Complaint. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  January 15,
2025                                ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 