  Case Number:  21STCV29373    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January 15, 2025                   TRIAL
DATE: March 25, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Sterile Pros, LLC v. Ocean Properties
Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV29373            
 
MOTION
FOR SANCTIONS PURSUANT TO CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE SECTION 128.5

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Sterile Pros, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Ocean Properties Inc.
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
08/20/21: Complaint filed.
·        
10/25/21: Cross-Complaint filed.
·        
11/06/24: Mistrial declared.
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for breach of contract. Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants have refused to pay Plaintiff money owed on a contract for
remediation of biohazardous material. Defendant Ocean Properties, LLC, as
Cross-Complainant, alleges that Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s employees
misrepresented themselves as employees of the Los Angeles County Medical
Examiner’s Office and threatened to red-tag Defendant’s building to coerce
Defendant into the contract.
 
            Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Sterile Pros, LLC moves for sanctions against Defendant/Cross-Complainant and
its counsel pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 128.5 following the
Court’s declaration of a mistrial. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Sanctions is
DENIED. 
 
//
 
//
DISCUSSION:
 
            Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Sterile Pros, LLC moves for sanctions against Defendant/Cross-Complainant and
its counsel in the amount of $21,240.65 pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 128.5 following the Court’s declaration of a mistrial. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 128.5 subdivision (a), a court may
order a party, the party’s attorney, or both, to “pay the reasonable expenses,
including attorney’s fees, incurred by another party as a result of actions or
tactics, made in bad faith, that are frivolous or solely intended to cause
unnecessary delay.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 128.5(a).) “Frivolous” means “totally
and completely without merit or for the sole purpose of harassing an opposing
party.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 128.5(b)(2).) “Bad faith,” under this statute, is subjective
and requires the attorney to have acted with an improper motive. (In re
Marriage of Sahafzadeh-Taeb & Taeb (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 124, 141.) 
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiff seeks sanctions against Defendant Ocean Properties, LLC, and
its counsel in the amount of $21,240.65 based on the misconduct of
Defendant’s counsel which led to a mistrial.
 
            Plaintiff filed its Complaint in
this action on August 20, 2021, alleging that Defendants refused to pay for
Plaintiff’s services for remediation of biohazardous material from Defendant’s
property. (See generally Complaint.) On October 25, 2021, Defendant Ocean
Properties, LLC filed its Cross-Complaint, alleging that Plaintiff’s employees forced
their way onto Defendant’s property, held themselves out as employees of the
Los Angeles County Medical Examiner’s Office, and threatened to “red-tag” the
property unless Defendant’s agent signed a contract for remediation services.
(See generally Cross-Complaint.)
 
            A jury trial in this action
commenced on November 5, 2024. (November 5, 2024 Minute Order.) After opening
statements, Plaintiff called Matthew Montague to testify on Plaintiff’s behalf
on direct examination. (Id. p.3.) Mr. Montague’s testimony continued
into the second day of trial, November 6, 2024. (November 6, 2024 Minute Order
p.2.) Defendant commenced cross-examination of Mr. Montague that same day. (Id.)
Defendant’s counsel inquired whether Mr. Montague or any of Plaintiff’s
employees had ever held themselves out as having the authority to “red-tag” a
building. (Plaintiff’s Exh. A [trial transcript] p.48:6-13.) The witness
answered “no.” (Id. p.48:14.) Defendant’s counsel then asked whether the
witness or any of Plaintiff’s employees had ever represented that they were
associated with the County Medical Examiner’s Office. (Id. p.48:15-17.)
The witness again answered in the negative. (Id. p.48:18.) The witness
also denied that he or any employee of Plaintiff had ever represented that they
were “associated with the homicide detectives’ office” or that they had
“claimed to have any kind of authority [they] didn’t have.” (Id.
p.48:19-26.) 
 
            Defendant’s counsel then offered a
document for introduction into evidence, characterizing the document as “the
criminal court conviction record of Matthew Scott Montague being convicted for
impersonating an officer.” (Plaintiff’s Exh. A. p.49:1-4.) The actual document
introduced was the record of proceedings from a 2005 misdemeanor prosecution
against Mr. Montague for violations of Penal Code section 146a subdivision (a)
(impersonation of a state deputy or clerk) and Penal Code section 415
subdivision (3) (disturbance of the peace by use of offensive language in
public). (Plaintiff’s Exh. B. p.1.) As part of a plea agreement, Mr. Montague
pled nolo contendere to the first charge, and the second charge was dismissed,
in exchange for probation and a suspended sentence. (Id. pp. 2-3.)
 
            Counsel for the parties held a
sidebar with the Court in chambers, outside the presence of the jury.
(Plaintiff’s Exh. A. p.49:16-18.) During that proceeding, counsel for Plaintiff
objected to the document as not having been previously presented to Plaintiff.
(Id. p.49: 20-22.) Counsel for Defendant argued that the document was
impeachment evidence. (Id. p.50:14-17.) After reviewing the document,
the Court determined that the misdemeanor conviction was impeachment evidence
on a collateral issue, and was therefore inadmissible. (Plaintiff’s Exh. A.
p.59:7-11.) Moreover, the Court concluded that the misdemeanor convictions were
so remote in time from the present case that they created a substantial danger
of undue prejudice that outweighed their probative value. (Id. Exh. A.
p. 59: 11:13.) Plaintiff’s counsel then orally moved for a mistrial, arguing
the introduction of this evidence and the lengthy delay during the sidebar incurably
tainted the jury’s evaluation of the case. (Id. p. 64:24-65:8.) The
Court ultimately concurred with Plaintiff’s counsel and granted the motion based
on misconduct by Defendant’s counsel in the form of collateral impeachment. (Id.
pp. 71:2-72:4.) 
 
            Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s
counsel intentionally violated the Los Angeles Superior Court Local Rules and
the California Rules of Court “for an advantage in trial.” In doing so,
however, Plaintiff offers no evidence of any subjective bad faith—i.e., an
improper motive—on the part of Defendant’s counsel which would support the
imposition of sanctions under section 128.5. Plaintiff’s arguments in its
moving papers are not evidence. Moreover, nothing in the record, including the
transcripts offered by Plaintiff, demonstrates an ill intent or improper
purpose driving the conduct of Defendant’s counsel. Rather, the transcripts
offered show Defendant’s counsel offering a colorable—albeit erroneous and
unpersuasive—arguments for the admissibility and propriety of the evidence.
(See Exh. A. pp. 50-59.) Indeed, although the Court found attorney misconduct
in granting the motion for mistrial, the Court did not, at that time, find that
the record indicated intentional misconduct. (Plaintiff’s Exh. A. p.
71:6-7.) Plaintiff offers nothing which would lead the Court to depart from
that perspective. 
 
            The Court therefore declines to
impose sanctions on the basis that Plaintiff has not demonstrated that any
conduct by Defendant’s counsel was made in bad faith and either frivolous or
solely intended to cause unnecessary delay. 
 
//
CONCLUSION:

 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion for Sanctions
is DENIED. 
 
Moving Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  January 15,
2025                                ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 