..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 22STCV18851
Plaintiff's Name: Dana Urick
Defendant's Name: Bohm Wildish & Matsen, LLP et al.
People-Named: Joshua I. Epstein
Company-Named: Bohm Wildish & Matsen, LLP
Place-Named: Los Angeles, California
Date-Named: October 10, 2023
Event-Named: Motion to be Relieved as Counsel
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: Epstein intends to withdraw as Plaintiff's counsel
Facts: Epstein filed a motion to withdraw due to confidential circumstances
Disputes: None mentioned
Acts: Epstein filed a motion to withdraw, the court granted the motion
Agreements: California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362 and California Code of Civil Procedure section 1005, subdivision (b)
Laws: California Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16, Business and Professions Code section 6068, subdivision (e), Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.6
Case Citations: Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994), Sexton v. Superior Court (1997)
Statutes: California Code of Civil Procedure section 1005, subdivision (b), Business and Professions Code section 6068, subdivision (e)
Roles: Judge Holly J. Fujie, Joshua I. Epstein
Significant Statements: The court has discretion on whether to allow an attorney to withdraw, and a motion to withdraw will not be granted where withdrawal would prejudice the client.
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The court has reviewed a motion filed by Joshua I. Epstein, counsel for Plaintiff Dana Urick, to be relieved as Plaintiff's counsel. The motion is unopposed and complies with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362. The court finds that the motion is adequate and grants it due to circumstances that require confidentiality under Business and Professions Code section 6068, subdivision (e) and Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.6. The court orders moving party to give notice of this ruling. Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court as directed by the instructions provided on the court website. If the department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
