  Case Number:  21STCV41627    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



WALTER CUEVAS,
 
            Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
CENTURION PROTECTION SERVICES, et
  al., 
 
                        Defendants.


 


     
  CASE NO.:  21STCV41627
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: SPECIAL MOTION TO
  STRIKE 
 
Date: 
  October 10, 2023
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Judge: Holly J. Fujie
 



AND
RELATED CROSS-ACTION
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Walter Cuevas (“Cuevas”)
 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendants/Cross-Complainants Centurion Protection Services and Richard
Ray Dudgeon (collectively, “Cross-Complainants”)
 
The
Court has considered the moving, opposition and reply papers.
 
BACKGROUND
This
action arises out of an employment relationship.  Cuevas’s first amended complaint alleges: (1)
Private Attorneys General Act; (2) failure to pay overtime wages in violation
of Labor Code section 510; (3) failure to reimburse and indemnify for
expenditures; (4) failure to provide meal and rest periods or compensation in
lieu thereof in violation of Labor Code section 226.7; (5) Labor Code section
203 waiting time penalties; (6) Labor Code section 1198.5, subdivision (k)
penalty; (7) Labor Code section 226, subdivision (f) penalty; (8) intentional
infliction of emotional distress; (9) violation of Penal Code section 637.7;
and (10) negligent infliction of emotional distress.
 
Cross-Complainants’
second amended cross-complaint (the “SAXC”) alleges: (1) breach of contract;
(2) intentional interference with contractual relations; (3) intentional
interference with prospective economic relations; (4) intentional
misrepresentation; (5) defamation; and (6) libel.
 
On
September 12, 2023, Cuevas filed a special motion to strike (the “Motion”)
portions of the SAXC on the ground that the conduct underlying the challenged
allegations arises from his rights of petition and free speech. 
.  
DISCUSSION
Under
California Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section 425.16, a cause of
action against a person arising from any act of that person in furtherance of
the person’s right of petition or free speech under the United States
Constitution or the California Constitution in connection with a public issue
shall be subject to a special motion to strike, unless the court determines
that the plaintiff has established that there is a probability that the
plaintiff will prevail on the claim. 
(CCP § 425.16, subd. (b)(1).)  
 
 The court must engage in a
two-step analysis when evaluating anti-SLAPP motions.  (Rivera
v.  First DataBank, Inc. (2010) 187
Cal.App.4th 709, 714.)  First, the court must decide whether the moving
party has met the initial burden of making a prima facie showing that the
plaintiff’s cause of action arises from the moving party’s constitutional right
of petition or free speech in connection with a public issue.  (Martin
v. Inland Empire Utilities Agency (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 611, 622.)  Under CCP section 425.16, subdivision (e),
acts in furtherance of a defendant’s right of petition or free speech include:
 
1.     Any written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative,
executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized
by law;
 
2.     Any written or oral statement in writing made in connection with an
issue under consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial
body, or any other official proceeding authorized by law;
 
3.     Any written or oral statement or writing made in a place open to the
public or a public forum in connection with an issue of public interest; and
 
4.     Any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional
right of petition or the constitutional right of free speech in connection with
a public issue or an issue of public interest. (CCP § 425.15, subd.
(e)(1)-(4).)
 
Once it has
been determined that the anti-SLAPP statute applies, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff to demonstrate a probability of prevailing on the merits of the
action.  (Navarro v. IHOP Properties, Inc. (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 834,
843.)  If the plaintiff does so, the
motion to strike under the anti-SLAPP statute must be denied.  (Id.) 
Anti-SLAPP motions must be supported
(and opposed) by declarations
stating facts upon which the liability or defense is based.  (HMS Capital, Inc. v. Lawyers Title Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th
204, 212.)  
 
            The
Motion argues that the allegations in paragraphs 16, 31, 39, 50 and 63 of the
SAXC fall within the ambit of the anti-SLAPP statute because they involve
statements made in connection with pending litigation.  These portions of the SAXC allege that on or
about August 24, 2022, Cuevas sent the wife of Cross-Complainants’ client a
text message in which he referenced his claim that Cross-Complainants had put
his family in danger, and threatened to disclose the client’s personal
information unless the client met with Cuevas to discuss the litigation.  (See SAXC ¶ 16.)  The remaining portions of the SAXC targeted
by the Motion reallege these facts to support Cross-Complainants’ second,
third, fifth and sixth causes of action. 

 
Protected Activity
Statements
made in litigation, or in connection with litigation, are protected by CCP
section 425.16.  (Bergstein v. Stroock
& Stroock & Lavan LLP (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 793, 803.)  In making a prima facie showing, however, it
is not enough to establish that the action was filed in response to or in
retaliation for a party's exercise of the right to petition.  (Id. at 804.)  Rather, the claim must be based on the
protected petitioning activity.  (Id.)
 When a cause of action involves both
protected and unprotected activity, the court looks to the gravamen of the
claim to determine if the claim is a SLAPP.  (Id.) 
Protected conduct which is merely incidental to the claim does not fall
within the ambit of CCP section 425.16.  (Id.) 
Determining the gravamen of the claims requires examination of the
specific acts of alleged wrongdoing and not just the form of the claim.  (Id.) 
 
 
Both CCP section
425.16 and the litigation privilege are construed broadly, to protect the right
of litigants to the utmost freedom of access to the courts without the fear of
being harassed subsequently by derivative tort actions.  (Contemporary Services Corp. v. Staff Pro
Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 1043, 1055.) 
Thus, it has been established for well over a century that a
communication is absolutely immune from any tort liability if it has “some
relation” to judicial proceedings.  (Id.)  
 
             Cuevas
provides evidence of the text message that is referenced in the SAXC.  (See Declaration of Walter Cuevas (“Cuevas Decl.”) ¶¶ 7-8, Exhibit E.)  
 
A screenshot of the message reads: 
“Hey ma’am sorry to bother, it’s walter. I used to work for you guys. I
was calling because there is a ongoing case with someone we both know that
decided to put my family in danger. The issue is if it escalates anymore it
will end up dragging kevin into it and ultimately that night. I apologize for
dropping this out of no where on you. If you and kevin would like to meet up so
I can explain the situation better please let me know. God bless you
guys”.  (Cuevas Decl., Exhibit E
(spelling and grammar in original).)
 
            Cuevas argue that the identified
portions of the SAXC allege conduct that falls under CCP section 425.16, subdivision(e)(2) because the allegations
concern statements made in connection to pending litigation.  The Court agrees.  The challenged portions of the SAXC are based
on a text message Cuevas sent to Cross-Complainants that, as alleged, was
explicitly connected to Cuevas’s attempt to gather evidence to support his
pending claims in this action.  The evidence
of the communication presented by Cuevas is consistent with the Motion’s
characterization of the conduct as a communication made in connection to ongoing
litigation made to the wife of one of Cross-Complainants’ clients.  This is sufficient to establish that the
alleged conduct is a statement made in connection with pending litigation.  While this conduct is not the sole basis for
liability, the SAXC directly cites it as a factual basis for establishing the
requisite elements of the second, third, fifth and sixth causes of
action.  The Court therefore finds that
Cuevas has satisfied the first prong of the anti-SLAPP analysis.  
 
Probability of Prevailing on the
Merits 
In the second prong of the
anti-SLAPP analysis, the court employs a summary judgment-like procedure,
accepting as true the evidence favorable to the plaintiff and evaluating the
defendant’s evidence only to determine whether the defendant has defeated the
plaintiff’s evidence as a matter of law. 
(Gerbosi v. Gaims, Weil, West & Epstein, LLP (2011) 193
Cal.App.4th 435, 444.)  In other words,
the court does not assess credibility, and the plaintiff is not required to
meet the preponderance of the evidence standard.  (Soukup v. Law Offices of Herbert Hafif (2006) 39
Cal.4th 260, 291.)  The court accepts as
true the evidence favorable to the plaintiff, who need only establish that his
or her claim has “minimal merit” to avoid being stricken as a SLAPP.  (Id.) 
The plaintiff is required to present facts which would, if proved at
trial, support a judgment in the plaintiff’s favor.  (CCP § 425.16, subd. (b); Shekhter v.
Financial Indemnity Co. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 141, 150-51.)  
 
Cross-Complainants do not
present evidence to show that their claims have minimal merit; instead, they
rely on their unverified pleading and make arguments to dispute the credibility
of Cuevas’s evidence presented with the Motion. 
This is insufficient to meet Cross-Complainants’ burden.  (See CCP §
425.16, subd. (b); Shekhter v. Financial Indemnity Co. (2001) 89
Cal.App.4th 141, 150-51.)   The Court therefore GRANTS the Motion.
Moving party is ordered to give notice
of this ruling.
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar. 
 
  Dated
this 10th day of October 2023



  






Hon. Holly J. Fujie 
Judge of the Superior Court 
 


