 Case Number:  20STCV39556    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2024    Dept:  T Motion for Summary AdjudicationTeresa Sorensen v. Charter Communications (CCI), Inc. dba SpectrumMoving Party: Cross-Complainant Temple Israel of Hollywood Responding Party: Cross-Defendant Charter Communications Tentative Ruling: GRANTBACKGROUND This is a trip and fall action. Plaintiff Teresa Sorensen (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint alleging negligence and premises liability against Defendants Charter Communications (“Charter”) and Temple Israel of Hollywood (“TIOH”). At the time of the incident, TIOH had leased the property to Charter, where Plaintiff was returning her cable equipment. Pursuant to their lease agreement, Charter is required to indemnify and defend TIOH from any claims arising out of Charter’s use or occupancy of the premises. On December 31, 2021, January 4, 2022, February 16, 2023, and May 19, 2023, TIOH tendered its defense to Charter, which has failed to respond to TIOH’s tender demands or defend TIOH in the action. (UMF #13-16). The pertinent language of the lease says as follows: “Except for Lessor’s gross negligence or willful misconduct, Lessee shall indemnify, protect, defend and hold harmless the Premises, Lessor and its agents, Lessor’s master or ground lessor, and Lenders, from and against any and all claims, loss of rents and/or damages, liens, judgments, penalties, attorneys’ and consultants’ fees, expenses and/or liabilities, arising out of the use and/or occupancy of the Premises by Lessee. If any action or proceeding is brought against Lessor by reason of any of the foregoing matters, Lessee shall upon notice defend the same at Lessee’s expense by counsel reasonably satisfactory to Lessor and Lessor shall cooperate with Lessee in such defense. Lessor need not have first paid any such claim in order to be defended or indemnified.” (UMF #9; Ex. 6 and 7 ¶ 8.7; emphasis added).The lease was amended on April 10, 2012 to include, in part, a subrogation waiver, which states the following: “Neither Lessee nor Lessor shall be liable for loss or damage caused by fire or other perils covered or normally covered by insurance policies maintained or required to be maintained by this Lease by the other party with respect to the Premises, the Building or any personal property contained in the same, and each party on behalf of itself and any insurer, waives all rights of subrogation against the other with respect to those perils. This waiver of liability and subrogation shall apply regardless of the negligence of either party and shall not be limited by the amount of insurance coverage carried by either party. The provisions of this Section shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Lease.” (Charter’s Opposition, p. 3.)MOVING PARTY POSITION TIOH argues Charter owes it a contractual duty to defend against Plaintiff’s claims, triggered when TIOH tendered its defense on December 31, 2021. TIOH argues the lease clearly obligates Charter to defend TIOH against Plaintiff’s claims, and asserts that granting this motion is necessary to prevent deprivation of TIOH’s contractual right to a defense. (Motion for Summary Adjudication, p. 5.) TIOH further argues Charter is not excused from its duty to defend by the subrogation waiver included in the amendment to the lease. (Motion for Summary Adjudication, p. 7.)OPPOSITION Charter argues that the Court should not grant TIOH’s motion because TIOH has failed to properly authenticate the lease agreement it relies on to establish the duty. (Opposition, p. 4.) Further, Charter argues that the April 10, 2012 amendment to the lease subrogates Charter’s obligation to defend TIOH. (Opposition, p. 7.)REPLYTIOH argues that contractual duty to defend is a proper subject for summary adjudication, that substantial uncontradicted evidence authenticates the operative Lease, the subrogation waiver does not abrogate Charter’s duty to defend TIOH against Plaintiff’s claims, and Charter’s duty to defend may be summarily adjudicated based on Plaintiff’s allegations regardless of whether its distinct duty to indemnify is later triggered or exonerated. (Reply, p. 2.)ANALYSIS I. Evidentiary Objections TIOH submits 10 objections to evidence supporting summary adjudication. TIOH’s objections are overruled. Additionally, Charter submits 4 objections to TIOH’s motion for summary adjudication. Charter’s objections are overruled.II. Summary AdjudicationA party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action, affirmative defenses, claims of damages and issues of duty. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(f)(1).) "A motion for summary adjudication may be made by itself or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment." (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(f)(2).) Pursuant to CCP 437(f)(1) “A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”Parties to a contract have great freedom to allocate responsibilities for each other's legal defense of third-party claims as they see fit, subject to public policy and established rules of contract interpretation. (Crawford v. Weather Shield Mfg., Inc. (2008) 44 Cal.4th 541.) In general, an agreement establishing one party's responsibility for the other's legal defense when a third-party claim is made against the latter is construed under the same rules as govern the interpretation of other contracts. (Id. at 552.) “Unless the parties' agreement expressly provides otherwise, a contractual indemnitor has the obligation, upon proper tender by the indemnitee, to accept and assume the indemnitee's active defense against claims encompassed by the indemnity provision.” (Id. at 555.)In this case, the only cause of action that can be summarily adjudicated is TIOH’s sixth cause of action for duty to defend. The language of the lease agreement here plainly creates a duty to defend. (See Crawford v. Weather Shield Mfg., Inc. (2008) 44 Cal.4th 541, 549) (holding a subcontract gave rise to the immediate duty to defend against claims insofar as they concerned the party’s conduct regardless of any findings of negligence.) Specifically, the language of the contract states that “Lessee shall… defend… Lessor and its agents… from and against any and all claims, loss of rents and/or damages, liens, judgments, penalties, attorneys’ and consultants’ fees, expenses and/or liabilities, arising out of the use and/or occupancy of the Premises by Lessee.” (Plaintiff’s Index of Exhibits in Opposition to Summary Judgment, Exhibit A.) Plaintiff’s complaint against TIOH in this case implicates the language giving rise to a duty to defend under the original language of the lease agreement; indeed, Charter does not purport to argue otherwise, but instead argues it is not obligated to defend TIOH because of the subsequent April 2012 amendment to the lease. However, the amended language of the lease can only be reasonably interpreted to apply to damages caused to the property itself and has no bearing on the present motion. Summary adjudication is thus appropriate with respect to TIOH’s sixth cause of action for duty to defend.However, TIOH’s remaining causes of action also cannot currently be summarily adjudicated, as the motion does not completely dispose of them, as even if liability is found, the cause of action damages would remain an issue that needs to be proven. The Court thus finds summary adjudication is not appropriate with respect to TIOH’s remaining causes of action.RULING Based on the foregoing, TIOH’s motion for summary adjudication is GRANTED with respect to the sixth cause of action for duty to defend. TIOH’s motion for summary adjudication with respect to remaining causes of action are DENIED.