 Case Number:  22STCV11480    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2024    Dept:  T Motion For An Order Deeming All Matters Contained In Plaintiff’s Requests For Admission, Set One, AdmittedChristopher Escalante v. Kaitlyn Corissa MaloofMoving Party: Plaintiff Christopher Escalante Responding Party: Defendants Kaitlyn Corissa Maloof; Anna Charlene Maloof; Commercial Avenue Enterprises, Inc.Tentative Ruling: DENYBACKGROUNDOn December 2, 2024, Plaintiff propounded Requests for Admission Set No. One onto Defendants, who timely provided unverified responses comprised solely of objections on February 14, 2024. (Declaration of Mitch Oviedo, Esq. ¶ 4.) On July 6, 2024, Plaintiff served a Meet and Confer letter requesting verifications and amended responses be provided. (Dec. of Mitch Oviedo, Esq. ¶ 7.) Plaintiff’s Counsel was subsequently assured by Defendants’ Counsel that that verifications would be provided. (Dec. of Mitch Oviedo, Esq. ¶ 8.) Plaintiff received no verified responses, from Defendants, and was not able subsequently resolve the matter informally. (Dec. of Mitch Oviedo, Esq. ¶ 11.)MOVING PARTY POSITIONPlaintiff argues the Court should order truth of all matters specified in Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission be deemed admitted due to Defendants’ failure to provide timely responses. Plaintiff also argues the Court should impose sanctions in the amount of $2,460.00. (Dec. of Mitch Oviedo, Esq. ¶ 14.) Plaintiff’s request is based on a $400/hour rate and reported six hours of work — including three hours to prepare each Motion, two hours to prepare Replies to any Oppositions, and one hour to appear for Hearing — in addition to $60.00 in filing costs. (Dec. of Mitch Oviedo, Esq. ¶ 17.) OPPOSITIONDefendants argue Plaintiff’s motions should be denied because the notice is defective due to failing to reference the specific discovery requests at issue. Defendants also argue the motions are moot because Defendants have since served verified code-compliant responses. Additionally, Defendants assert the motions should be denied because their objections were timely served and did not require verifications. Defendants also request sanctions against Plaintiff, alleging Plaintiff misused the discovery process.ANALYSISI.  Motion to Deem Requests for Admission AdmittedWhere there has been no timely response to a request for admission under C.C.P. § 2033.010, the propounding party may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction. (C.C.P. § 2033.280(b).) C.C.P. § 2033.280(c) states, in relevant part: “The court shall make this order, unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220. It is not appropriate to grant Plaintiff’s motions in this case, as Defendants lodged timely objections. (Opposition to Motion to Deem RFA Admitted, p. 33, Exhibit G.) As a result, the instant motion is improper – it should have been brought as a Section 20033.290 motion to compel further responses; however, even as a motion to compel further responses, it would be moot, as Defendants provided code compliant responses on October 21, 2024. The Court accordingly declines to grant sanctions in this case, and finds no misuse of the discovery process by either Plaintiff or Defendants.RULINGPlaintiff’s motions to Deem Request for Admissions Admitted are DENIED. Plaintiff’s requests for sanctions against Defendants are DENIED. Defendants’ requests for sanctions against Plaintiff are DENIED.