 Case Number:  21STCV38359    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2024    Dept:  T Motion for Summary JudgementJean-Pierre Boccara v. City Of Los Angeles, et al.Moving Party: Defendants Simon J. Thomas; Laura SheppardResponding Party: Plaintiff Jean-Pierre BoccaraTentative Ruling: GRANTBACKGROUND This is a trip and fall case wherein Plaintiff tripped on the sidewalk adjacent to an apartment complex containing Defendants’ unit. MOVING PARTY POSITION Defendants argue they did not owe a duty to maintain the sidewalk because they lacked ownership or control over it. (Motion for Summary Judgement, p. 9.)OPPOSITIONPlaintiff argues disputed facts exist as to defendants’ ownership and control of the land abutting the sidewalk. (Opposition, p. 9.) Plaintiff additionally argues there are disputed facts as to whether Defendants’ plants caused or contributed to Plaintiff’s fall and whether Defendants had notice.REPLYDefendants argue that nothing in Plaintiff’s opposition negates the arguments presented in the original motion for summary judgment: namely, that Defendants' entire argument has to do with ownership of the sidewalk where the incident is alleged to have occurred. (Reply, p.2.)ANALYSIS I. Judicial NoticeAs an initial matter, the Court takes judicial notice of the Los Angeles County Assessor Parcel Information for APN 5523005025, 646 Wilcox Avenue, Los Angeles, California 90004.II. Summary JudgementSummary judgment is proper “if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(c).)  The moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment must show either (1) that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be established or (2) that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(p).)  A defendant may discharge this burden by furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required facts or (2) discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to establish an essential element of the plaintiff's case.  The elements of a cause of action for premises liability are the same as those for negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages.” (Castellon v. U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998 (citing Ortega v. Kmart Corp. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200, 1205; Civil Code § 1714(a).) In order to impose liability on a property owner for a dangerous condition, the owner must have either actual or constructive knowledge of the dangerous condition or have been able to discover the condition by the exercise of ordinary care. (See Ortega, supra, 26 Cal.4th at 1206.) “Those who own, possess, or control property generally have a duty to exercise ordinary care in managing the property in order to avoid exposing others to an unreasonable risk of harm.” (Annocki v. Peterson Enterprises, LLC (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32, 37.) A. Defendants Meet their Initial Burden An abutting property owner will be responsible for the condition on a public sidewalk if that owner has performed construction or altered the sidewalk for the unique benefit or his property. (Sexton v. Brooks (1952) 39 Cal.2d 153, 157-158.) And the abutting landowner is liable for his or her own affirmative acts on the sidewalk that create a hazardous condition, such as by dropping waste or a slippery substance that a passerby may fall on. (Kopfinger v. Grand Central Public Market (1964) 60 Cal.2d 852, 857).Defendants make a prima facie showing that they do not own the property outside of their unit and that they do not maintain the landscaping or perform any construction — relieving them of a duty to Plaintiff. Namely, Defendants’ expert George Mekhaiel reviewed property maps, tax maps, and personally surveyed the area identified as the location of the fall. (Mekhaiel Decl ¶4-6). He confirmed that this was a "'city sidewalk" by determining the City of Los Angeles owned the sidewalk. (Mekhaiel Decl. ¶7.) Defendants also attested not to exert control over the sidewalk. (Decl. of Simon Thomas ¶7; Decl. of Laura Sheppard ¶7).B. Plaintiff Fails to Raise a Triable Issue of Material FactPlaintiff here fails to provide any evidence to show a triable issue may exist with respect to the issue of Defendants’ ownership of the property outside their area. Plaintiff relies on HOA Restrictions (Exhibit List, Exh. A) to argue common areas were owned by Defendants and that “it cannot be said as a matter of law that Defendants did not own or control the land abutting the sidewalk where Plaintiff tripped and fell.” (Opposition, p. 9.) While the HOA restrictions convey a fractional property interest in common areas, it does not show a triable issue regarding whether Defendants owned or controlled it.Plaintiff’s only other evidence to suggest Defendants’ ownership is in the HOA interrogatory responses, where “Responding Party [HOA] contends that the adjacent property owners Simon Thomas and Laura Sheppard, had an obligation to notify Responding Party and the City of Los Angeles, of any condition that needed repairs.” (Wilshire Country Manor Owners Association’s Responses To Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories, Set One, p. 19-20.) This is insufficient to bring into issue whether Defendants owned the property outside their unit. Rather, the response reflects obligations between Defendants and the HOA regarding providing notice of any issues in the HOA’s common areas.  Based on the undisputed facts, the Court is not persuaded by Plaintiff’s argument that Defendants have a nondelegable duty to protect Plaintiff from harm.RULING Based on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion for summary judgement is GRANTED. 