 Case Number:  24NNCV02761    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2024    Dept:  T Motion to Compel ArbitrationJoey To vs Tesla, Inc. dba Tesla Motors, Inc.Moving Party: Defendant Tesla Motors, Inc. (“Tesla”)Responding Party: Plaintiff Joey ToTentative Ruling: GRANTBACKGROUNDIn August of 2021, Plaintiff purchased a new Model S from Tesla, accompanied by Tesla’s four-year, 50,000-mile basic warranty and eight-year, 100,000-mile Powertrain Warranty. Plaintiff alleges the car began experiencing significant problems that substantially impaired its use and which Tesla was unable to repair to conform to its warranties within a reasonable number of attempts. Plaintiff brought this action against Tesla alleging Breach of Express and Implied Warranty, as well as violation of the Song-Beverly Act § 1793.2. (See Complaint, Ex. 2 to Ameripour Decl.) In buying the car, Plaintiff signed a seven-page “Retail Installment Sale Contract” which included an arbitration agreement. (Kim Decl. ¶ 3 & Sale Contract, Exhibit 1 to Kim Decl.) The arbitration provision provides, in part:“1. EITHER YOU OR WE MAY CHOOSE TO HAVE ANY DISPUTE BETWEEN US DECIDED BY ARBITRATION AND NOT IN COURT OR BY JURY TRIAL. 2. IF A DISPUTE IS ARBITRATED, YOU WILL GIVE UP YOUR RIGHT TO PARTICIPATE AS A CLASS REPRESENTATIVE OR CLASS MEMBER ON ANY CLASS CLAIM YOU MAY HAVE AGAINST US INCLUDING ANY RIGHT TO CLASS ARBITRATION OR ANY CONSOLIDATION OF INDIVIDUAL ARBITRATIONS. 3. DISCOVERY AND RIGHTS TO APPEAL IN ARBITRATION ARE GENERALLY MORE LIMITED THAN IN A LAWSUIT, AND OTHER RIGHTS THAT YOU AND WE WOULD HAVE IN COURT MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE IN ARBITRATION.Any claim or dispute, whether in contract, tort, statute or otherwise (including the interpretation and scope of this Arbitration Provision, and the arbitrability of the claim or dispute), between you and us or our employees, agents, successors or assigns, which arises out of or relates to your credit application, purchase or condition of this vehicle, this contract or any resulting transaction or relationship (including any such relationship with third parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at your or our election, be resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court action. […]” (Sale Contract, Ex. 1 to Kim Decl., page 7.)The arbitration provision also includes language that Tesla “will pay your filing, administration, service or case management fee and your arbitrator or hearing fee all up to a maximum of $5,000, unless the law or the rules of the chosen arbitration organization require us to pay more.” (See Declaration of Luis A. Serrano Exhibit 1, ¶ 4.)MOVING PARTY POSITIONTesla argues the Court should stay Plaintiff’s claims and compel arbitration, asserting FAA and California Law require compliance of Plaintiff’s agreement to arbitrate with Tesla, as Plaintiff’s claims fall squarely within the scope of the arbitration clause. (Motion to Compel, p. 4-5, 11.) OPPOSITIONPlaintiff argues that the arbitration provision is unconscionable — both procedurally and substantively — and imposes terms that make arbitration more costly and onerous than proceedings in Superior Court. (Opposition, p. 2, 4-5.) REPLYTesla contends that the agreement to arbitrate is not unconscionable procedurally or substantively. (Reply, p. 2.) Tesla further emphasizes that California has a strong public policy in favor of arbitration. (Id. at 7.)ANALYSISI. Judicial Notice The Court takes judicial notice of Plaintiff Joey To’s Complaint, filed on or about July 8, 2024. (Tesla Request for Judicial Notice, p. 2.) II. Motion to Compel ArbitrationCalifornia law reflects a strong public policy in favor of arbitration as a relatively quick and inexpensive method for resolving disputes. To further that policy, California Code of Civil Procedure § 1281.2 requires a trial court to enforce a written arbitration agreement unless one of three limited exceptions applies. Those statutory exceptions arise where (1) a party waives the right to arbitration; (2) grounds exist for revoking the arbitration agreement; and (3) pending litigation with a third party creates the possibility of conflicting rulings on common factual or legal issues.” (Acquire II, Ltd. v. Colton Real Estate Group (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 959, 967 [citations omitted]; Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.)  In deciding a petition to compel arbitration, trial courts must decide first whether an enforceable arbitration agreement exists between the parties, and then determine the second gateway issue whether the claims are covered within the scope of the agreement. (Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) The party seeking arbitration has the “burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, while a party opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its defense.” (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 842.)¿The trial court “sits as the trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, and any oral testimony the court may receive at its discretion, to reach a final determination.” (Id.) General principles of contract law govern whether parties have entered a binding agreement to arbitrate. (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236; see also Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.)  Whether there is a written agreement to arbitrate is a matter of contract, and courts must enforce arbitration contracts according to their terms. (Banc of California, National Association v. Superior Court of Los Angeles County (2021) 69 Cal.App.5th 357, 366.) Plaintiff here does not raise any arguments regarding the existence of the arbitration agreement, whether he signed the agreement, or the scope of the arbitration agreement.  Rather, he argues that the arbitration provision is unconscionable. As the parties do not dispute the existence or scope of the arbitration agreement, the Court will discuss whether the terms of the arbitration agreement are unconscionable.A. Unconscionability“[P]rocedural and substantive unconscionability must both be present in order for a court to exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the doctrine of unconscionability.” (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 102.) The courts invoke a sliding scale which disregards the regularity of the procedural process of the contract formation, that creates the terms, in proportion to the greater harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive terms themselves, i.e., the more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to conclude that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa. (Id. at p. 114.) Plaintiff bears the burden of proving that the arbitration agreement is both procedurally and substantively unconscionable. This case thus turns on whether Plaintiff can prove that his arbitration agreement with Tesla is both procedurally and substantively unconscionable.i. Procedural Unconscionability“Procedural unconscionability focuses on the elements of oppression and surprise. [Citations] ‘Oppression arises from an inequality of bargaining power which results in no real negotiation and an absence of meaningful choice … Surprise involves the extent to which the terms of the bargain are hidden in a ‘prolix printed form’ drafted by a party in a superior bargaining position.’ [Citations]” (Roman v. Superior Court (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.) Here, Plaintiff has not provided sufficient evidence to establish procedural unconscionability. Plaintiff argues the contract was one of adhesion, presented on a "take it or leave it" basis that deprived him of meaningful opportunity to negotiate. (Opposition, p. 5.) However, Plaintiff’s characterization of the agreement is not borne out in the evidence on the record. Namely, the court in Sanchez explicitly refutes the argument that an agreement’s status as a contract of adhesion automatically constitutes procedural unconscionability; rather, the court emphasizes that the “manner in which the disputed clause is presented to the party in the weaker bargaining position....’” is determinative of procedural unconscionability. (Sanchez v. Valencia Holding Co., LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 899, 931.) Sanchez further explained that “there is no reason in this case to conclude that Plaintiff lacked power to bargain. In general, nothing prevents purchasers of ... vehicles from bargaining with dealers, even though dealers use form contracts, and nothing in the record shows that Plaintiff could not bargain in this case.” (Id.) The reasoning in Sanchez directly applies here — as there is no evidence that the arbitration clause was non-negotiable or that Plaintiff attempted to negotiate such terms and was denied.  (See Bolanos v. Khalatian (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1586 [holding that arbitration agreement was enforceable because the plaintiff’s declaration did not say that she could not read or understand the agreement and because she did not offer any evidence that she was forced or tricked into signing the agreement].) Plaintiff has not provided a declaration that he attempted to ask questions about or negotiate the arbitration agreement, nor that he was denied such requests.  Plaintiff also argues that the arbitration agreement is procedurally unconscionable because it did not include a copy of the relevant arbitration rules. This argument is unavailing. The failure to attach or provide the AAA rules to the arbitration agreement is not, in itself, a sufficient ground to support a finding of procedural unconscionability.  For example, in Lane v. Francis Capital Management LLC (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 676, 690, the Court of Appeal concluded: “[T]he failure to attach a copy of the AAA rules did not render the agreement procedurally unconscionable. There could be no surprise, as the arbitration rules referenced in the agreement were easily accessible to the parties—the AAA rules are available on the Internet.” The arbitration agreement here explicitly draws attention to the American Arbitration Association rules and provides instructions to find them. Thus, there are no indications of procedural unconscionability.   ii. Substantive Unconscionability“Substantive unconscionability focuses on the actual terms of the agreement and evaluates whether they create ‘overly harsh’ or ‘‘one-sided’ results’ [Citations] that is, whether contractual provisions reallocate risks in an objectively unreasonable or unexpected manner.  [Citation] Substantive unconscionability ‘may take various forms,’ but typically is found in the employment context when the arbitration agreement is ‘one-sided’ in favor of the employer without sufficient justification, for example, when ‘the employee’s claims against the employer, but not the employer’s claims against the employee, are subject to arbitration.’ [Citations]” (Roman, supra, 172 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1469-1470.) Plaintiff has not demonstrated the agreement as substantively unconscionable. Plaintiff argues that the arbitration agreement, by providing the party electing arbitration to “choose any of the following arbitration organization and its applicable rules,” is substantively unconscionable because it allows Tesla the choice of organization and applicable rules. (Opposition, p. 6.) In doing so, Plaintiff mistakenly relies on Chavarria v. Ralphs (9th Cir. 2013) 733 F.3d 916 (“Even if it were the case that Ralphs' policy does not guarantee that Ralphs will always be the party with the final selection, the selection process is not one designed to produce a true neutral in any individual case.”). Part of the issue in Chavarria was that the arbitration selection provision would always produce an arbitrator proposed by Ralphs and that the provision precluded institutional arbitration administrators like AAA or JAMS which had established rules and procedures to select a neutral arbitrator.  Here, Tesla’s arbitration agreement does not preclude the selection of neutral arbitrators at qualified institutions like AAA or JAMS.   Plaintiff also argues that the arbitration cost provision is substantively unconscionable and would impose prohibitive costs on Plaintiff.  However, the arbitration agreement states: “We will pay your filing, administration, service or case management fee and your arbitrator or hearing fee all up to a maximum of $5000, unless the law or the rules of the chosen arbitration organization require us to pay more.” (See Sale Contract, Ex. 1 to Kim Decl., page 7, line 23-24.) As such, it is unclear how the arbitration cost provision is unconscionable, nor is it clear that arbitration would impose a higher financial burden on Plaintiff.RULINGAs there are no indications of procedural or substantive unconscionability, the motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED.  The matter is stayed to permit the parties to proceed with arbitration.  The Court sets a Post-Arbitration Status Conference for October 7, 2025 at 8:30 a.m.