 Case Number:  20STCV00489    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2024    Dept:  T Motion to StrikeOdalys Noa v. City of Los Angeles, et al.Moving Party: Defendants Highland Exchange, LLC; Lakeview Edwardsville and Distribution Center, LLC Responding Party: Plaintiff Odalys NoaTentative Ruling: DENYBACKGROUNDThis is a trip and fall case wherein Plaintiff did not designate any expert witnesses after Defendants’ Demand for Exchange of Experts. However, Plaintiff attests to serving expert designations to Defendants via U.S. mail, which included Brad Avrit, Dr. Jonathan Eskenazi, Dr. Alfredo Sudan, and Dr. Parham Yashar. When Defendants filed their Motion in Limine to preclude all of Plaintiff’s experts for their failure to designate expert witnesses in February 2024, Plaintiff asserted that she had served the expert designation and retained several experts in July 2023, including Brad Avrit, Dr. Jonathan Eskenazi, Dr. Alfredo Sudan, and Dr. Parham Yashar. Plaintiff has filed several ex parte applications and motions to resolve expert issues.MOVING PARTY POSITIONDefendants argue the Court should grant an order precluding Plaintiff from introducing or mentioning evidence relating to expert witnesses due to Plaintiff’s failure to designate any expert witnesses and Plaintiff’s subsequent conduct which Defendants characterize as deceptive and fraudulent. (Motion to Strike, p. 2.) Defendants also argue Plaintiff acted in bad faith and should be subject to sanctions in the amount of $12,318.00.OPPOSITIONPlaintiff argues the Court should deny Defendants’ motion. First, Plaintiff asserts Defendants failed to give sufficient statutory notice. Moreover, Plaintiff argues that Defendants’ motion improperly attempts to reconsider a legal issue that has previously been considered and resolved. Namely, because Plaintiff’s hearing on Motion for Leave to Submit Tardy Expert Witness Information was advanced, heard, and granted, Plaintiff argues that relitigating issues relating to Plaintiff’s timely designation of experts or ability to call experts at trial is moot and, and moreover that the time has expired to file a motion for reconsideration under Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 1008.Additionally, Plaintiff argues that striking her experts would strongly prejudice Plaintiff’s case. (Opposition, p. 7-8.)REPLYDefendants argue permitting Plaintiff’s counsel to benefit from their lies is a miscarriage of justiceANALYSISA court may strike from the complaint any irrelevant, false, or improper matter. Under CCP § 435, “[a]ny party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.” Under CCP § 436(a), “[t]he court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper . . . [s]trike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.” Under CCP § 436(b), the court may “[s]trike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” Code of Civil Procedure Section 2023.030 states in pertinent part: To the extent authorized by the chapter governing any particular discovery method or any other provision of this title, the court, after notice to any affected party, person, or attorney, and after opportunity for hearing, may impose the following sanctions against anyone engaging in conduct that is a misuse of the discovery process: (c) The court may impose an evidence sanction by an order prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from introducing designated matters in evidence. CCP section 128.5 authorizes sanctions for bad-faith actions or tactics that are frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary delay permits the award of attorney fees, not simply as appropriate compensation to the prevailing party, but as a means of controlling burdensome and unnecessary legal tactics. (Levy v. Blum (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 625.)In this case, Defendants’ motion to strike is not sufficiently supported by evidence that Plaintiff lied or engaged in bad faith tactics. Plaintiff sought relief from the Court when a dispute arose regarding the designation and then produced her experts for deposition. (Opposition, p. 11.) Indeed, Defendants deposed both experts and will not suffer any prejudice if they testify at trial; conversely, granting Defendants’ motion in this case would confer an unfair tactical advantage by eliminating Plaintiff’s ability to introduce liability and medical causation experts. Defendants’ arguments in support of their motion to strike uniformly suffer the same shortcoming in that they all assert Plaintiff’s alleged misstatements are intentional, bad faith lies. Rather, Defendants put forward evidence of a potential misrepresentation by Plaintiff and assume, without further evidence, Plaintiff’s bad faith. Defendants further cite cases such as Computer Prepared Accounts, Inc. v. Katz (1991) 235 Cal.App.3d 428, that rely on the court’s finding that a party intentionally lied to gain an unfair tactical advantage. The instant case is distinguishable, however, as Defendants fail to provide adequate evidence that Plaintiff made intentional misrepresentations — nor that doing so actually conferred an unfair advantage to Plaintiff.RULINGDefendant’s motion to strike is DENIED.