 Case Number:  19STCV28377    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2024    Dept:  T DemurrerClive Duvall, an individual v. Lillian Horwitz, an individual, et al.Moving Party: Defendant Estate of Lillian Horwitz, Deceased ("The Estate")Responding Party: Plaintiff Clive DuvallTentative Ruling: SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMENDBACKGROUND This matter arises from a car accident on August 14, 2017, wherein Plaintiff was injured in a motor vehicle accident between him and Decedent Lillian Horwitz ("Decedent"). (First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), ¶ 9.) Decedent passed away on September 10, 2018. (FAC, ¶ 13.) Plaintiff is specifically seeking recovery against two of Decedent's insurance policies in effect at the time of the accident. (FAC., ¶¶ 18-19, 21.) The original complaint was filed on August 12, 2019. (FAC, ¶ 23.)MOVING PARTY POSITION The Estate argues Plaintiff is not entitled to maintain the present action under Probate Code §§ 550 et seq. as the statute of limitations for an action under Probate Code §§ 550 et seq. expired on February 8, 2021. (Demurrer, p. 4.) The Estate therefore argues the Court should sustain demurrer without leave to amend as the sole cause of action within the complaint is barred by the applicable statute of limitations. The Estate also argues that the relation back doctrine does not apply because Plaintiff cannot show that he was genuinely ignorant that Decedent's claims were covered by insurance at the time he filed the Complaint. (Demurrer, p. 7.)OPPOSITIONPlaintiff argues the demurrer should be overruled because the action is timely filed against Decedent, specifically because the substitution of the estate as defendant constitutes a “continuance” of the action and is not subject to the one-year limitations period in Probate Code § 551 and relates back to the original date of filing. (Opposition, p. 5.)REPLYThe Estate argues that Plaintiff never properly commenced an action against Decedent or the Estate because Decedent passed away almost a year before Plaintiff filed the present lawsuit — therefor Plaintiff could not "continue" the action against Decedent because it was not pending at the time of her death. (Reply, p. 2.)ANALYSIS I. Judicial Notice As an initial matter, the Court takes judicial notice of Plaintiff’s declaration, the declarations of his prior and current counsel, and of his own ex parte filing. (Plaintiff’s Request for Judicial Notice, Exhibits 1 through 4.) The Estate’s objections are accordingly overruled.II. Pertinent Facts and Procedural EventsThe following facts and events are drawn from the First-Amended Complaint and this Court’s docket.The subject collision occurred on August 14, 2017.  Lillian Horwitz and Nathan Horwitz owned and Lillian Horwitz was driving the vehicle and that collided with Plaintiff’s vehicle.  Unbeknownst to Plaintiff, Lillian Horwitz died on September 10, 2018.  Plaintiff filed complaint naming Lillian and Nathan Horwitz on August 12, 2019, two days before the statute of limitations expired.  Based on the date that Lillian Horwitz passed away, the last day to file a claim against the Estate of Lillian Horwitz was September 10, 2018.  C.C.P. § 366.2. Defendant Nathan Horwitz filed his answer on March 27, 2020.  Even though the matter had been pending for more than a year, Plaintiff’s counsel claims she first learned that Lillian Horwitz died sometime in November 2020. [Panah Decl. filed March 9, 2023]  There is no explanation as to why it took so long to discover this fact.  At least three months after Plaintiff counsel admits to learning that Lillian Horwitz passed away, the time to file a Probate Code § 550 action against the Estate of Lillian Horwitz (accounting for the tolling provided under Emergency Rule 9) expired on February 8, 2021.  On July 14, 2022, the Court dismissed Defendant Lillian Horwitz for failure to file a proof of service.  At this point in time, the only named defendant was Nathan Horwitz.  On October 1, 2022, Nathan Horwitz died.  On February 2, 2023, more than two years after learning that Lillian Horwitz had died and more than four years after the death, Plaintiff amended his complaint to name the Estate of Lillian Horwitz, naming the estate as Doe 1.  Plaintiff never filed a proof of service relating to the estate.  The parties stipulated to add the Estate of Nathan Horwitz as a defendant under Probate Code § 550 on February 16, 2023.  Of note, the stipulation stated, “Nathan Horwitz was the owner of the vehicle Lillian Horwitz was driving at the time of the subject accident, and he was not in the vehicle at the time the subject accident.”  This language would appear to have no operative effect other than to establish that any claims against the estate would be limited to $15,000 under Vehicle Code § 17151.On March 28, 2023, the Court granted a motion to dismiss by the Estate of Lillian Horwitz.  In responses to a request for clarification, by way of an April 14, 2023 minute order, the Court stated “Specially Appearing Doe Defendant 1 – Estate of Lillian Horwitz, Deceased’s Motion to Dismiss by Quashing the February 14, 2023 Service of Summons and Complaint (filed 03/03/2023) Upon It Because of Untimely Service was heard and granted by the Court on 03/28/2023.  In a March 28, 2023 ruling on the Motion to Dismiss, Judge Feeney stated:“Here, there is no basis for relating the Doe Amendment back to the filing date of the original complaint.  Here, Plaintiff had actual knowledge of Lillian Horowitz’s [sic] death before the statute of limitation ran around February 14, 2021.  At minimum, based on the ex parte application filed in this action, Plaintiff had knowledge of Lillian Horowitz’s [sic] death as of December 2020.”  The Court finished its ruling by stating:  “The case as to the Estate of Lillian Horowitz [sic] is now dismissed with prejudice both due to the failure to comply with the statute of limitations and failure to timely serve within the three-year period.”On December 15, 2023, a different bench officer granted Plaintiff leave to file an amended complaint to name the Estate of Lillian Horwitz.  Notably, the Court did not attempt to accord the prior ruling finding a violation of the statute of limitation and the failure to timely serve the complaint or the finding that claims against the Estate did not relate back to the original complaint.  Plaintiff filed his First Amended Complaint on December 19, 2023.  The Court granted Defendant Estate of Lillian Horwitz’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons on June 13, 2024.  However, after considering arguments made in a hearing on July 25, 2024 addressing Plaintiff’s Motion to Vacate Order of Court, this Court concluded that the most appropriate procedural approach to dealing with the issues presented was by way of a demurrer rather than a motion to quash.  Accordingly, the Court vacated its June 13, 2024 order and ordered Defendant to file a responsive pleading to the First Amended Complaint.  III. DemurrerA demurrer is a procedure to object to a pleading set forth under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, et seq.  Because a demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters, a demurrer analysis considers only those defects which appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.  (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.)  When considering demurrers, courts assume the truth of the facts alleged in the pleading and read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1074, 1081.) A demurrer must be denied where the complaint states a cause of action "under any possible legal theory." (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.) The court must “liberally” construe the complaint’s allegations "with a view to substantial justice." (Code Civ. Proc. § 452.)  Plaintiff is pursuing this action under Probate Code § 550, et. seq. (FAC ¶ 17.) Probate Code §§ 550 et seq. allows a plaintiff to pursue an action against the insurance policy of a deceased defendant without having to initiate probate so long as the damages sought are within policy limits and plaintiff complies with a series of requirements, including service requirements and a specific statute of limitations for actions under these sections. Probate Code § 551 provides: “Notwithstanding Section 366.2 of the Code of Civil Procedure, if the limitations period otherwise applicable to the action has not expired at the time of the decedent’s death, an action under this chapter may be commenced within one year after the expiration of the limitations period otherwise applicable.”Under Probate Code § 552(a), a summons for an action against a decedent’s insurance policy must be served on a person designated in writing by the insurer or, if none, on the insurer itself. Under Code of Civil Procedure § 583.210(a), the summons and complaint must be served upon a defendant within three years after the complaint is filed.Statute of limitationsAny action seeking to recover under Probate Code § 550 et seq. must be commenced within one year after the expiration of the limitations period applicable, so long as the applicable limitations period had not expired at the time of Decedent’s death. (Prob. Code § 551.) The statute of limitations for Plaintiff’s causes of action, general negligence and motor vehicle negligence, is two years from the date of injury. (Code Civ. Proc. § 335.1.) Here, the subject accident took place on August 14, 2017. The limitations period for Plaintiff’s action would have expired on August 14, 2019. However, Decedent died on September 10, 2018, before the limitations period expired, therefore triggering Prob. Code § 551. Section 551 extended the statute of limitations applicable to Decedent to August 14, 2020, two and one years after the limitations period began to run. In addition, Emergency Rule 9(a) Related to COVID-19 is also applicable. The Rule provided that “Notwithstanding any other law, the statutes of limitations and repose for civil causes of action that exceed 180 days are tolled from April 6, 2020, until October 26 1, 2020.” Consequently, 178 days need to be added to the calculation of the statute of limitations under § 551. Therefore, the statute of limitations to bring a cause of action limited to the insurance policy against Decedent was February 8, 2021. Defendant contends that the FAC, filed on December 19, 2023, is time-barred.In opposition, Plaintiff contends that the FAC relates back to the action’s original filing date of August 12, 2019. “[W]hen a complaint is amended only to identify a party by its proper name, the gravamen of the complaint remains unaltered, and hence the later pleading relates back to the earlier pleading.” (Barrington, supra, 39 Cal.3d at 154; see also Burgos v. Tamulonis (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 757, 763.)Plaintiff here relies on Burgos v. Tamulonis (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 757, 762-763 (“Burgos”)) to argue that where an action is timely filed against decedent, the substitution of the estate as defendant constitutes a ‘continuance’ of that action and relates back to the original date of filing.”  However, this reliance is misplaced. Plaintiff here — unlike in Burgos — has not filed any creditor claim and is not pursuing this action under Probate Code §§ 9000 et seq., but instead exclusively relies on Probate Code §§ 550 et seq. There are additional facts in this case that provide additional grounds to distinguish Burgos.  In Burgos, Plaintiff filed his personal injury complaint on December 10, 1991 and attempted to serve Defendant three times before completing substituted service on January 20, 1992.  Plaintiff’s counsel then notified the Defendant’s insurer that service had been affected.  On February 20, 1992, Plaintiff learned for the first time that Defendant had passed away on March 3, 1991.  Just over two weeks later, Plaintiff petitioned the probate department fore leave to file a late claim.  Leave was granted and Plaintiff filed a creditor’s claim just over a month later.  Plaintiff then promptly sought leave to name the personal representative of the defendant’s estate in the personal injury action.  The entire process took just over four months.In analyzing the demurrer based on then Code of Civil Procedure § 353 (now Code of Civil Procedure § 366.2), the Burgos Court explained: “What we are saying is that the legislative scheme encompasses exactly the type of situation that arose in this case where it is uncontroverted the creditor had no actual knowledge of the administration of the estate, did not even know of the death, and timely commenced the action (under both § 340, subd. (3) and § 353) naming Moscaritolo as defendant. This would be the expected course of action in any situation where there is no known administration of an estate, including the situation where there is never an administration of the estate.  Having timely commenced the action and having been granted leave to file the late claim against the estate, Burgos was entitled to continue pursuit of her cause of action by the standard method of amending the complaint to name Tamulonis as defendant in her representative capacity. This the trial court also properly allowed. ”  Id. at 762-763 (citation and footnotes omitted).The Burgos Court also addressed concerns over endless limitations periods if Plaintiff’s were provided unlimited time to file amended complaints: “Contrary to Tamulonis's contention made at oral argument, there is no open-ended period for actions or claims under the present scheme of law involving statutes for which administration has been commenced. Any open-ended possibility is precluded by a combination of rules including the requirement the action be filed within one year after the decedent's death (§ 353, now § 366.2), the rule that failure to file a claim bars the claim and action (Prob. Code, §§ 9002, subd. (b), 9351) and the late claim filing time limits, generally within one year of issuance of letters of administration, before a final distribution order and before the expiration of the one year after death limitation of section 353 (now § 366.2) for filing an action (Prob. Code, § 9103; see also Prob. Code, §§ 9053, 9392).”  Id. at footnote 7.The facts in this case are starkly different than Burgos.  Here, there are no apparent attempts to ever serve Ms. Horwitz by any means.  Plaintiff’s counsel admits she first learned that Lillian Horwitz died sometime in November 2020. [Panah Decl. filed March 9, 2023]  At that time, Plaintiff had three months to amend the complaint to name the Estate of Lillian Horwitz and continue the action under Probate Code § 550.  Unlike the Plaintiff in Burgos who took affirmative steps to protect his rights in just two weeks, Plaintiff waited more than two years.  This Court cannot align these facts with Burgos, where the Court found that “the legislative scheme encompasses exactly the type of situation that arose in this case.”  To the contrary, Plaintiff slept on his rights and allowed critical deadlines to pass.  This conduct is not “what the legislative scheme encompasses.”  Similarly, while the Burgos Court noted several rules precluding an “open-ended” limitations period, allowing Plaintiff to proceed against the Estate based on an amended complaint filed more than five years after Ms. Horwitz died and three years after learning of the death would be the equivalent of endorsing an endless limitations period.  The Court is unpersuaded by the claims of estoppel.  While there may have been settlement negotiations suggesting that the insurance carrier was offering money over the $15,000 exposure faced by Mr. Horvitz, there are no allegations that Defendant’s insurers and attorneys misled Plaintiff about the need to protect his rights.  It is common for plaintiffs to file complaints to protect the statute of limitations while settlement discussions are ongoing and it is similarly common for parties to stipulate to extend the time to file responsive pleadings because settlement appears imminent.   RULING This Court concludes that Judge Feeney was correct in ruling that there was no basis for relating the Doe Amendment back to the filing date of the original complaint and dismissing the claims against the Estate, with prejudice, “both due to the failure to comply with the statute of limitations and failure to timely serve within the three-year period.”  This Court now reaches the same conclusions, vacates any past orders reaching contrary results, and sustains Defendant’s demurrer without leave to amend.  