

 
This is a legal malpractice action. Plaintiff Sara Cronstedt
(Plaintiff) has settled with Defendants Gray and White Law Firm and Mark Gray
(Gray Defendants), and now seeks a determination of good faith settlement by
the Court.
 
Background
 
            The Complaint alleges that in 2016
Plaintiff was injured in a hot air balloon accident and retained attorney
Richard A. Jones and the Law Offices of Richard A. Jones (jointly, Jones Law
Firm) to represent her in that action (Balloon Action). She contends the Jones
Law Firm engaged in professional negligence in its representation of her in the
Balloon Action. As a result, in June 2016, she substituted Defendants McNulty
Law Firm and Peter McNulty (McNulty Defendants) as counsel in the Balloon
Action. In October 2016, Plaintiff also retained the Gray Defendants to represent
her in the Balloon Action. 
 
The Complaint alleges that Defendants incorrectly told her
that she had until December 4, 2017 to bring her malpractice case against the
Jones Law Firm. Plaintiff sued the Jones Law Firm on December 1, 2017 (Jones
Malpractice Action) represented by both the defendant McNulty firm and the Gray
firm. In the Jones Malpractice Action, the Jones Law Firm asserted a statute of
limitations defense. Plaintiff also alleges other breaches of the standard of
care in Defendants’ handling of both the Jones Malpractice Action and the
Balloon Action. On March 16, 2020, Plaintiff filed a Complaint against
Defendants McNulty Law Firm, Peter McNulty, Gray and White Law and Mark Gray,
alleging causes of action for (1.) negligence (legal malpractice), (2.) breach
of fiduciary duty, and (3.) breach of contract.
 
On August 30, 2023, Gray Defendants filed a Motion for
Determination of Good Faith Settlement to bar any claims for indemnity,
contribution, or apportionment of fault by a joint tortfeasor.  The Settlement provides that Gray Defendants will
pay $55,000.00 to Plaintiff in exchange for a full settlement and release of
all claims against them. The Settlement depends upon the Court’s approval of
the Motion for Good Faith Settlement. McNulty Defendants oppose the motion. 
 
            The Motion for Good Faith Settlement
is granted.
 
Legal Standard
 
            “A
determination by the court that the settlement was made in good faith shall bar
any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any further claims against the
settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or
partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or
comparative fault.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (c).) 
            In Tech-Bilt, Inc. v.
Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488 (Tech-Bilt),
our Supreme Court explained that in making a good faith settlement
determination, a trial court should “inquire, among other things, whether the
amount of the settlement is within the reasonable range of the settling
tortfeasor's proportional share of comparative liability for the plaintiff's
injuries.” (Id. at p. 499.) “The
party asserting the lack of good faith shall have the burden of proof on that
issue.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
877.6, subd. (d).)
“In the
context of section 877.6, ‘[t]he trial court is given broad discretion in deciding
whether a settlement is in “good faith” for purposes of section 877.6, and its
decision may be reversed only upon a showing of abuse of discretion.’ ” (Cahill
v. San Diego Gas & Electric Co. (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 939, 957.) 
Discussion
 
            Gray Defendants request the Court
find its settlement with Plaintiff was made in good faith based on its position
that the settlement meets all the relevant Tech-Bilt factors.
 
            In opposition, McNulty Defendants
argue the settlement was not made in good faith. They rely on Plaintiff’s
settlement demand to the McNulty Defendants for $1,000,000.  That is, Plaintiff has settled with the Gray
Defendants for 5.5% of what Plaintiff seeks from the McNulty Defendants.
McNulty Defendants argue that no competent evidence has been submitted to
explain such a disparate evaluation of the Gray Defendants’ liability.
 
            Acknowledging that there
is no precise method to determine whether parties entered into a good faith
settlement, the Supreme Court in Tech-Bilt,
Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde Assoc. (1985) 38
Cal.3d 488 provided guidelines for
determining whether a settlement is made in good faith.
(38 Cal.3d at 495.) Rather, the court must strike a balance between the public
policy favoring settlements and the competing policy favoring equitable
allocation of costs between tortfeasors. (Id. at pp. 498-99.) To
accomplish this, the Tech-Bilt Court provided the following factors for
determining whether a proposed settlement is based on good faith: (1) a rough
approximation of plaintiff’s total recovery and the settling defendant’s
proportionate liability; (2) the amount paid in settlement; (3) allocation of
settlement amounts among plaintiffs; (4) recognition that a settlor should pay
less in settlement than it would if it were found liable after trial; (5)
financial conditions and insurance policy limits of the settling defendant; and
(6) the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the
interests of non-settling defendants. (Id. at 499-500.) The burden of proof
in asserting that a settlement lacked good faith falls upon the party making
the assertion and it must show that “the settlement is so far ‘out of the
ballpark’ in relation to these factors as to be inconsistent with the equitable
objectives of [CCP § 877.6].” (Ibid.) 
 
            Here,
McNulty Defendants have not met their burden of demonstrating that the
settlement is “so far ‘out of the ballpark’. . .[that it is] inconsistent with
the objectives of the statute.” (Tech-Bilt,
Inc., supra, 38 Cal.3d at 499-500.)
 
            First, Gray Defendants argue that
the settlement amount of $55,000 reflects a rough approximation of Plaintiff’s
recovery and Gray Defendants’ liability. In addressing this factor, Gray
Defendants separate Plaintiff’s claims into broad categories of alleged
misconduct: (1.) Defendants’ failure to accurately inform Plaintiff of the correct
statute of limitations deadline for her claims again the Jones Law Firm, (2.) the
allegation that Plaintiff obtained a settlement in the Balloon Action for less
than its value due to Defendants’ negligent legal representation, and (3.) the
allegation that Plaintiff suffered damages as result of Defendants mishandling her
settlement funds from the Balloon Action.[1]

 
With respect to all these claims, Gray Defendants argue they
are all barred by the applicable statute of limitations, Code of Civil
Procedure section 340.6. In opposition, McNulty Defendants do not dispute the
validity of this affirmative defense. In fact, Gray Defendants note that
McNulty Defendants filed a summary judgment motion asserting this same defense.
Thus, contrary to the holding in West v. Superior Court (1994) 27
Cal.App.4th 1625, 1635, Gray
Defendants here have articulated a strong statute limitations defense to Plaintiff’s
claims, reducing Gray Defendants’ liability exposure. 
 
Further, Gray Defendants assert that they did not represent
Plaintiff in the Jones Malpractice Action, such that there can be no liability
arising from this action. Nor was there any judgment that positively determined
whether the Jones Malpractice Action was barred by the statute of limitations
because the matter settled. Based on this settlement in the Jones Malpractice
Action, Plaintiff’s ability to demonstrate malpractice by Defendants is difficult
to prove, further lowering Defendants’ likely liability on Plaintiff’s claims. 
 
In opposition, McNulty Defendants suggest that
Defendants—including Gray Defendants – are potentially liable to Plaintiff in
the amount of $1,000,000. In making this argument, McNulty Defendants point to
Plaintiff’s 998 offer to McNulty Defendants in the amount of $1,000,000. Citing
City of
Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, McNulty Defendants argue
Gray Defendants cannot show that 55,000 is good faith settlement where
Plaintiff seeks $1,000,000 in damages from McNulty Defendants. 
 
McNulty Defendants, however, do not argue that Plaintiff’s
$1,000,000 demand is a reasonable amount to evaluate the $55,000 settlement
amount. McNulty Defendants submit no evidence that Plaintiff’s 998 offer has
any reasonable relationship to the damages Plaintiff’s allegedly suffered. Moreover,
the Reply notes that McNulty Defendants gave their own 998 settlement offer to
Plaintiff in the amount of $40,000. (Teel Reply Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A.) 
 
Given this lack of analysis indicating Plaintiff’s
approximate recovery is anywhere near $1,000,000, the Court cannot determine
the $55,000 is not in good faith given Gray Defendants’ uncontested statute of
limitations argument. 
 
            Second, Gray Defendants also submit evidence
reducing their proportionate liability compared to McNulty Defendants. Specifically,
Gray Defendants assert they did not have possession or control at any point
over Plaintiff’s Balloon Action settlement amounts. (Gray Decl., Ex. B.) Thus,
Gray Defendants cannot be liable under Plaintiff’s mismanagement theory
pertaining to the Balloon Settlement amount. McNulty Defendants appear to
concede separate liability with respect to the holding of the settlement funds.
(Opp. 6:13-18.) 
 
Accordingly, the settlement amount reflects a rough
approximation of Plaintiff’s total recovery and the Gray Defendants’
proportionate estimated liability of this approximation. 
 
            Lastly, there is no evidence of
collusion, fraud or tortious conduct in connection with the settlement agreement
and Gray Defendants deny the existence of any such circumstances. (Teel Decl.,
¶ 8.)[2]
Further, the Court declines McNulty Defendants’ request to continue this motion
to allow for additional discovery. McNulty Defendants request a continuance to
take Plaintiff’s deposition to evaluate her testimony in connection with the
motion for good faith settlement. However, McNulty Defendants submit no
evidence of bad faith. Their request to conduct discovery offers no basis to
conclude that a closer look into Plaintiff’s motives is warranted. 
 
McNulty Defendants do not challenge the settlement under any
other Tech-Bilt factors. Under the circumstances, the Court cannot find
that “the settlement is so far ‘out of the ballpark’ in relation to [the Tech-Bilt] factors as to be inconsistent
with the equitable objectives of the statute.” 
(Tech-Bilt, Inc., supra, 38
Cal.3d at pp. 499–500.) Accordingly, the Court finds that the settlement was
made in good faith.  
 
Conclusion
 
The Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement is
granted.


