  Case Number:  23CHCV02247    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  F51  JUNE 5, 2024    MOTIONS TO STRIKE  Los Angeles Superior Court Case  # 23CHCV02247    Motions Filed: 12/8/23   MOVING PARTY: Defendants KW Santa Clarita Townhomes,  LLC; and Greystar California, Inc. (collectively, “Defendants”) RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs  Gloria Muniz; Genesis Richards; Ameenah Richards; and Pilar Richards (collectively,  “Plaintiffs”) NOTICE: OK   RELIEF REQUESTED: Defendants  move to strike references relating to punitive damages from Plaintiffs’ complaint.   TENTATIVE RULING: The motions are denied. Defendants to file and serve their  answers to Plaintiffs’ complaint within 30 days.   BACKGROUND    This is a habitability  action in which Plaintiffs are a mother and her three minor children residing  in a rental home located at 18241 W. Terra Verde Place, Santa Clarita CA 91387.  (Compl. ¶¶ 1, 15.) Defendants are the owners and managers of the subject  property. (Id. at ¶ 19.) Plaintiffs allege that “as a result of  Defendants’ failure to properly maintain the Subject Property, which is  multiunit complex, Plaintiffs were forced to endure ongoing filthy  infestations, including, but not limited to, bed bugs and other deplorable  conditions.” (Id. at ¶ 4.)   On 7/8/23,  Plaintiffs filed their complaint, alleging against Defendants the following  causes of action: (1) Breach of Warranty of Habitability; (2) Breach of  Warranty of Habitability; (3) Negligence; (4) Nuisance; (5) Intentional  Infliction of Emotional Distress; (6) Breach of Contract; (7) Unfair Business  Practices; and (8) Fraudulent Concealment.   On 12/8/23,  Defendants filed the instant motions to strike. On 5/22/24, Plaintiffs filed  their oppositions. On 5/29/24, Defendants filed their replies. // // // ANALYSIS   The court may, upon a motion, or at any  time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant,  false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,  subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn  or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order  of the court. (Id., § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the  face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.)   A.    Meet  and Confer   Defendants’ counsel declares that on 11/30/23, she met and conferred  with Plaintiffs’ counsel regarding the issues raised in the instant motions,  but the parties were unable to informally resolve the issues. (Decl. of Samantha  Van Der Wall ¶ 2.) The Court therefore finds that counsel has satisfied the  preliminary meet and confer requirements under Code of Civil Procedure section  435.5, subdivision (a).   B.     Punitive  Damages   Punitive  damages may be recovered upon a proper showing of malice, fraud, or oppression  by clear and convincing evidence. (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).) “Malice” is  defined as conduct intended to cause injury to a person or despicable conduct  carried on with a willful and conscious disregard for the rights or safety of  others. (Id. at subd. (c); Turman v. Turning Point of Cent. Cal.,  Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) “Oppression” means despicable conduct  subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship, in conscious disregard of the  person’s rights. (Ibid.) “Fraud” is an intentional misrepresentation,  deceit, or concealment of a material fact known by defendant, with intent to  deprive a person of property, rights or otherwise cause injury. (Ibid.)   1.       Malice, Fraud, or Oppression   Punitive  damages must be supported by factual allegations. Conclusory allegations,  devoid of any factual assertions, are insufficient to support a conclusion that  parties acted with oppression, fraud or malice. (Smith v. Superior Court  (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042; Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v.  Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643.)   In the  complaint, Plaintiffs allege, inter alia, that they discovered the bedbug  infestation in June 2022, notified Defendants’ agents, but “despite Plaintiffs’  many requests … at no time have Defendants offered reimbursements for  relocation expenses, replacement costs to Plaintiffs, or allowed the Plaintiffs  a reasonable off-set for the harms and losses each has sustained as a result of  the known bed bug infestations. In fact, when Plaintiffs’ pleas for help from  Defendants to affectively [sic] address the bed bug infestation at the  Plaintiffs’ Unit, Defendants failed to abate the bed bugs for extended periods  of time.” (Compl. ¶ 30.) “Defendants [were] aware of the bed bug infestation at  the complex affected multiple units for extended period, as prior tenants’  complaint about the bed bug infestation in their units. Defendants failed to  abate the bed bug infestation from the Subject property and Subject Units.  Additionally, Defendants failed to provide notice to Plaintiffs about the  widespread bed bug infestation at the apartment complex prior to June 2022.” (Id.  at ¶ 31.) “As a direct and proximate result of Defendants’ failure to  maintain the Premises in a safe, habitable condition, Plaintiffs continue to  suffer ongoing emotional and physical injuries, including, but not limited to:  (a) Painful bed bug bites, Severe skin rash, allergic reaction, scarring and  personal injuries over the entirety of their body caused by bed bugs; (b) Property  damage to bed, mattress, bedding, furniture, clothing, and personal belongings,  as a result of bed bug infestation; (c) Relocation expenses, pest control fees,  loss of earnings, and attorney fees; (d) Plaintiffs became ill several times  while living in the Subject Property, experiencing ongoing insect bites,  sleeplessness, inconvenience, humiliation, grief, anxiety and other symptoms.”  (Id. at ¶ 6.)   Here,  Defendants argue that “Plaintiffs’ conclusory and, indeed, pure recitation of  the legal elements required to satisfy pleading punitive damages is improper.”  (MTS 7:16–17.) “Additionally, Plaintiffs fail to identify any employee or  managing agent of [each] defendant … who specifically engaged in conduct  warranting exemplary damages.” (Id. at 7:27–28.)   In  opposition, Plaintiffs argue that “the basis for Plaintiffs’ prayer for  punitive damages is the Defendant’s relationship with Plaintiffs (landlord and  tenant), Defendant’s failure to notify Plaintiffs of the bedbugs despite  knowing about them, Defendant’s failure to act in a timely and effective manner  once Plaintiffs notified Defendants of the bedbugs, Defendant’s failure to hire  effective pest control, their failure to abate the infestation, and their  collection of rent monies despite all this.” (Pls.’ Opp. at 5:9–13, citing  Compl. ¶¶ 4, 43, 48, 52, 57, 106, 108.)   On reply,  Defendants maintain that Plaintiffs’ allegations are not pled with the  requisite specificity, for example, “Which of the two named defendants had  actual knowledge? Which agent or employee of which defendant possessed such  knowledge? These are the kinds of basic, factual pleadings required to  sufficiently put [each Defendant] on notice of the punitive damages claims  alleged against it.” (Defs.’ Reply 2:19–22.)   Based on a  review of Plaintiffs’ factual allegations, the Court finds that the Complaint,  as pled, sufficiently pleads a basis for punitive damages against Defendants  based on malice or oppression. As Plaintiffs contend, the Complaint  sufficiently alleges that Defendants, through their agents/employees, had  actual knowledge about the bedbug infestation at the subject property, yet  failed to remediate the issue. (Compl. at ¶¶ 28–31.) This alleged conduct  sufficiently supports a prayer for punitive damages as a “conscious disregard  for the rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c).)   Accordingly,  the Court finds that at this stage, Defendants’ alleged conduct as pled may be  considered malicious and oppressive as defined by Civil Code section 3294.  Further investigation of the merits of Plaintiffs’ allegations may be resolved  through the discovery process.   2.       Employer Liability   “An  employer shall not be liable for [punitive] damages … based upon acts of an  employee of the employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the  unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of  the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct  for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression,  fraud, or malice. With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge  and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression,  fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent  of the corporation.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (b).)   In their  complaint, Plaintiffs name two individuals who were on-site managing agents of Defendants  during the relevant time period, to whom Plaintiffs gave notice of the bedbug  infestation. (Compl. ¶ 28.) Plaintiffs further allege that “those in the  management department, were acting as agents, employees, management and  supervisorial employees of the Defendant,” and “said Defendants authorized,  ratified or approved the conduct of these officers or managing agents of the  Defendants.” (Id. at ¶¶ 83–84.)   Here, Defendants  argue that “Plaintiffs do not allege an employee of [each] defendant … was  unfit for his or her position or that one of [the] … corporate leaders engaged  in some wrongful conduct.” (MTS 9:1–3.) In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that they  have sufficiently pled that “at all relevant times, any employees were acting  as management and supervisorial employees of the Defendants,” and that “Defendants  authorized, ratified or approved the conduct of these officers or managing  agents of the Defendants. These unlawful acts were further ratified by said  Defendants and done with a conscious disregard for the Plaintiff’s rights and  with the intent, design and purpose of injuring the Plaintiff.” (Pls.’ Opp. 7:10–20,  citing Compl. ¶¶ 83–84.)   Upon review  of the Plaintiffs’ factual allegations in the Complaint, the Court agrees with  Plaintiffs that they have sufficiently alleged that Defendants  ratified/approved of the allegedly wrongful conduct of their agents and/or  employees. The Court again notes that further investigation of the merits of  Plaintiffs’ allegations may be resolved through the discovery process.  Accordingly, the Court denies Defendants’ motion to strike portions of  Plaintiffs’ complaint referencing punitive damages.   CONCLUSION    The motions to  strike are denied. Defendants to file and serve their answers to Plaintiffs’  complaint within 30 days.