 Case Number:  22STCV37589    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  73 6/20/2024Dept. 73Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presidingAMERSON v. BLINK INTERMEDIATE HOLDINGS, LLC, et al. (22STCV37589)Counsel for Plaintiff/moving party: Liliuokalani Martin (Downtown LA Law Group, LLP)Counsel for Defendants/opposing party: Kristin Kovacich (Ogletree, Deakins, Nash, Smoak & Stewart, PC)MOTION FOR AN ORDER TO COMPEL DEPOSITION OF DEFENDANT AND REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS (filed 03/29/24)TENTATIVE RULINGPlaintiff’s Motion to Compel Deposition of Blink Holdings, Inc.’s Person Most Knowledgeable is GRANTED. Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is GRANTED IN A REDUCED AMOUNT. Defendants, and its counsel, jointly and severally are ordered to pay Plaintiff $1,060.00 in monetary sanctions within 30 days of this order.BACKGROUNDOn November 30, 2022, Plaintiff Darshawn Amerson (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Blink Intermediate Holdings, LLC; Blink Holdings, Inc. dba Blink Fitness dba Blink Fitness Clubs; and Rachael Cortez (collectively, “Defendants”).This action arises out of Plaintiff’s employment with Defendants. In his complaint, Plaintiff alleges discrimination, harassment, retaliation, failure to prevent such actions, failure to provide reasonable accommodation, and failure to engage in a good faith interactive process under the Fair Employment and Housing Act (FEHA), as well as wrongful termination, failure to pay wages, failure to provide minimum wages, failure to provide meal and rest periods, failure to provide itemized wage and hour statements, waiting time penalties, and unfair competition against Defendants during the period Plaintiff was employed by Defendants starting on or about July 1, 2020, to November 30, 2021.On March 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion for an Order to Compel Deposition of Defendant Blink Holdings, Inc. dba Blink Fitness dba Blink Fitness Clubs and request for monetary sanctions, arguing Plaintiff is entitled to notice the Person Most Knowledgeable (“PMK”) of Blink, LLC to sit for deposition.No opposition was filed.ANALYSISA. Legal StandardAny party may obtain discovery, subject to restrictions, by taking the oral deposition of any person, including any party to the action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) A party desiring to take an oral deposition shall give a notice in writing which states the specification of reasonably particularly of any materials to be produced by the deponent. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.220, subd. (a)(4).) A properly served deposition notice is effective to require a party to attend and to testify, as well as to produce documents for inspection and copying. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280, subd. (a).) The party served with a deposition notice waives any error or irregularity unless that party promptly serves a written objection at least three calendar days prior to the date for which the deposition is scheduled. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (a).)“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action … without having served a valid objection … fails to appear for examination, … or to produce for inspection any document, … described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document … described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)A motion brought to compel a deposition “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition … by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b)(2).)B. Meet and ConferPlaintiff has lodged his counsel’s (Mr. Juarez-Munoz’s) declaration in support of his motion. Mr. Juarez-Munoz’s declaration shows that he made multiple good faith attempts to resolve the deposition issue prior to filing this motion. Despite those efforts, Defendants have failed to meet and confer with Plaintiff regarding the proposed subjects for examination or given Plaintiff a date to reschedule the deposition. Accordingly, the court finds that Plaintiff has satisfied the meet and confer requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, subdivision (d)(2).C. Request for an Order Compelling Defendant to Appear at DepositionPlaintiff has presented evidence that he made multiple efforts to schedule the deposition of the PMK of Blink Holdings, Inc. On March 12, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel Mr. Juarez-Munoz emailed Defendants’ defense counsel inquiring about deposition dates for the PMK of Blink Holdings, Inc. (Juarez-Munoz Decl., ¶ 4.) Defense counsel stated they were unlikely to produce a PMK prior to the April 2, 2024, discovery cutoff date due to the “breath of the categories” listed on Plaintiff’s deposition notice and indicated the necessity to meet and confer on the categories. (Ibid.) On March 13, 2024, Plaintiff served a Notice of Deposition of the PMK of Blink Holdings, Inc., with a request to produce documents set for March 25, 2024 and a request to meet and confer regarding the categories mentioned in defense counsel’s email. (Juarez-Munoz Decl., ¶ 5.) Plaintiff did not receive a response, therefore, on March 19, 2024, Mr. Juarez-Munoz emailed Defendants requesting confirmation of dates to meet and confer regarding the categories and alternative dates for the PMK's deposition before April 2, 2024. (Juarez-Munoz Decl., ¶ 6.) On March 20, 2024, defense counsel objected to Plaintiff’s deposition notice and stated they would meet and confer with Plaintiff regarding the proposed subjects for examination anda mutually agreeable date in order to reschedule the deposition. (Juarez-Munoz Decl., ¶ 7.) However, Plaintiff states defense counsel has not reached out to meet and confer or provide alternative dates prior to the April 2, 2024 discovery cutoff date. (Ibid.)The Court also notes Defendants have not opposed the motion. Due to the lack of opposition, an inference is created that the motion is meritorious. (Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.)Thus, the Court grants Plaintiff’s request for an order compelling the PMK of Blink Holdings, Inc. to attend and testify at deposition.D. SanctionsPlaintiff requests monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,560.00 in connection with his motion. This includes 2 hours of work on the motion and 1 hour to attend the hearing at a billing rate of $500 per hour, and a $60 motion filing fee.California Code of Civil Procedure §2025.450(g)(1) states, “[i]f a motion under subdivision (a) is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with¿Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Cal. Code Civ. Pro. §2025.450(g)(1).)Here, the Court finds sanctions are warranted for the Motion to Compel Deposition because substantial justification was not shown as it was unopposed. However, the Court finds the request to be excessive because it is unopposed and simple. Therefore, the Court reduces sanctions as follows: $1,060.00 [500 x 2.0 hours preparing the motion and attending the hearing + $60 filing fee].CONCLUSIONPlaintiff’s Motion to Compel Deposition of Blink Holdings, Inc.’s Person Most Knowledgeable is GRANTED. Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is GRANTED IN A REDUCED AMOUNT. Defendants, and its counsel, jointly and severally are ordered to pay Plaintiff $1,060.00 in monetary sanctions within 30 days of this order.