 Case Number:  23STCV18166    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  73 06/20/2024Dept. 73Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presidingALAN WAYNE LINDEKE, et al. v. ADAM LEVINE (23STCV18166)Counsel for Plaintiffs/opposing party: Eric Troutman, Brittany Andres (Troutman Amin, LLP)Counsel for Defendant/moving party: John Fowler, Tracy Rane (Kibler Fowler & Cave LLP)MOTION FOR ATTORNEYS FEES (filed 5/09/2024)TENTATIVE RULINGPlaintiffs’ request for attorney’s fees is DENIED.I. BACKGROUNDOn August 2, 2023, Plaintiffs Alan Wayne Lindeke, Steven Sugarman, Thedora Nickel and Carlos Salas (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed this action against Defendant Adam Levine (“Defendant”).On October 9, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint alleging the following causes of action: (1) Invasion of Privacy in Violation of California Penal Code § 632; and (2) Invasion of Privacy in Violation of California Penal Code § 632.7. Plaintiffs allege that Defendant recorded numerous telephonic meetings with Plaintiffs where confidential information was discussed without their consent.On February 20, 2024, this Court entered an order denying Defendant’s Special Motion to Strike (“anti-SLAPP”) motion.On March 27, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a Motion for Award of Attorneys’ fees and costs, arguing:· Plaintiffs move for an order awarding them their reasonable attorney’s fees in the amount not to exceed $69,954.00 in light of the Court’s denial of the Special Motion to Strike filed by Defendant· Defendant’s motion was frivolouso No reasonable lawyer could possibly believe Defendant’s anti-SLAPP in this case had merit; criminal conduct is not subject to public policy protection. (Gerbosi v. Gaims, Weil, West & Epstein (2011) 193 Cal. App. 4th 435.) Gerbosi is directly on point.o Defendant relied on outdated case law and failed to conduct the appropriate analyses· Defendant’s motion was filed solely for the purpose of delayo Defendant’s requested to move his deposition to a date after they intended to file their anti-SLAPP motion. Then after filing the anti-SLAPP motion, all discovery was stayed. Thus, the motion was used to prevent the deposition form proceeding.Defendant filed an opposition, arguing:· Defendant’s motion was not frivolouso Although this Court ultimately denied Levine’s motion, it did so: (1) by relying on new authorities that were not provided by Plaintiffs; (2) after holding two hearings on the motion; (3) taking the motion under submission; and (4) acknowledging that there is not much authority concerning the precise situation that was before the Court – i.e., addressing a situation where as here, Levine was denying that the recordings existed in the first instance.o Gerbosi is not directly on point. The facts are distinguishable because here Levine denied that he had engaged in any illegal activity and he denied the existence of the recordings.· Defendant’s motion was not filed solely for the purpose of delayo Defendant’s request to reschedule a deposition was, in part, based on the fact that Plaintiffs unnecessarily delayed filing an amended complaint (it was ultimately very similar to the original complaint). Finally, the fact that Levine filed an immediate Notice of Appeal was done solely to preserve his rights to pursue a timely appeal of the denial of his motion.· In the event the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion, certain fees should be stricken. Such fees included those incurred to bring an ex parte application to advance a hearing for “limited” discovery and a motion for “limited” discovery that were never filed or heard, researching and analyzing issues unrelated to the motion, and client communications.Plaintiffs filed a reply, arguing:· Defendant does not challenge either the hourly rate or hours expended on the Plaintiffs’ direct efforts to oppose the anti-SLAPP· Plaintiffs maintains that they are entitled to attorneys fees because Defendant’s motion was frivolous and filed for the purpose of delay.II. ANALYSISCalifornia’s anti-SLAPP statute contains a fee-shifting element, where in most circumstances, a prevailing defendant on a special motion to strike “shall be entitled to recover his or her attorney's fees and costs.” (Cal. Civ. Proc. Code § 425.16 (c)(1).)However, the standard is narrower for a prevailing plaintiff (i.e. where an anti-SLAPP motion was unsuccessful) to recover its attorney’s fees, requiring a finding that the special motion to strike was frivolous or was brought solely intended to cause unnecessary delay, pursuant to Section 128.5. (Ibid.) “A trial court may order a party, the party's attorney, or both,¿to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred by another party as a result of¿actions or tactics, made in bad faith,¿that are frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary delay.¿(Cal. Civ. Proc. Code § 128.5(a).) “‘Frivolous’ means totally and completely without merit or for the sole purpose of harassing an opposing party.” (Cal. Civ. Proc. Code § 128.5(b)(2).)Here, Plaintiffs are seeking sanctions in an amount not to exceed $69,954.00 in light of the Court’s denial of Defendant’s anti-SLAPP motion. However, the Court declines to find that the motion was frivolous or brought solely intended to cause unnecessary delay, pursuant to Section 128.5.Plaintiffs argue that no reasonable lawyer could believe that Defendant’s anti-SLAPP had merit, specifically that Defendant’s criminal conduct would be subject to protection based on the Gerbosi holding. (Gerbosi v. Gaims, Weil, West & Epstein (2011) 193 Cal. App. 4th 435.) Plaintiffs assert that Gerbosi v. Gaims, Weil, W. & Epstein, LLP (2011) 193 Cal. App. 4th 435 is on point, as the court held that an action violative of Penal Code Section 632 constituted criminal conduct that cannot be subject to any public policy protection. In Gerbosi, the plaintiff alleged that the defendant lawyer engaged in wiretapping in the course of representing a client. (Id. at 446.) Although the defendant denied engaging in wiretapping, he argued that his conduct was protected by the anti-SLAPP statute because the “assertedly protected conduct” was wiretapping. (Ibid.) However, the Gerbosi court rejected this argument stating, “[u]nder no factual scenario offered by [the lawyer] is such wiretapping activity protected by the constitutional guarantees of free speech and petition.” (Ibid.) However, Defendant argues he attempted to distinguish this case because he contended that his alleged conduct constituted newsgathering, which can involve recording individuals without their consent. In contrast to Gerbosi, Defendant denied that he had engaged in any illegal activity and he denied the existence of the recordings. The mere fact that an action is without merit does not by itself establish that the action was totally and completely without merit. (In re Flaherty, (“Flaherty”) (1982) 31 Cal.3d 637.) An action is frivolous when it indisputably has no merit and any reasonable attorney would agree that the appeal is totally and completely without merit. (Id. at 650.) While the court disagreed with Defendant’s arguments and found that it had not demonstrated that its conduct in question was protected speech or constituted new gathering, this does not mean the motion was frivolous. Further, while Plaintiffs assert that Defendant failed to rely on recent case law, standing alone, such a fact is not sufficient to meet the standard of 128.5.Plaintiffs also argue Defendant’s motion was solely intended to cause delay because a discovery stay resulted from the motion’s filing, causing Defendant’s deposition to be delayed. Plaintiff cites to Workman v. Colichman, (2019) 33 Cal. App. 5th 1039 in support. However, the Court does not find the facts in Workman – i.e., lying about scheduling a mediation, or asking for multiple extensions to respond to pleadings or discovery – are present in this case.The Court does not find Defendant’s motion was entirely frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary delay. Thus, Plaintiffs’ request for attorney’s fees is DENIED.III. DISPOSITIONPlaintiffs’ request for attorney’s fees is DENIED.