 Case Number:  23STCV27674    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  73 6/20/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
PUIG v. GOODPEOPLE ROASTING LLC, et
al. (23STCV27674)
 
Counsel for Plaintiff/moving
party:  Scott Ernest Wheeler (Law Office
of Scott Ernest Wheeler)
Counsel for
Defendants/ opposing party: N/A
 
(1)   PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO DEEM REQUEST FOR
ADMISSIONS, SET NO. ONE, ADMITTED (filed on 05/17/2024)
(2)   PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO DEEM REQUEST FOR
ADMISSIONS AS TO GENUINENESS OF DOCUMENTS, SET NO. ONE, ADMITTED (filed on 05/17/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff’s
Motions to Deem Request for Admissions, Set One, Admitted and Request for
Admissions as to Genuineness of Documents, Set One, Admitted are GRANTED. The truth
of the matters specified in Request for Admissions, Set One, and Request for
Admission as to Genuineness of Documents, Set One are
hereby deemed admitted
 
The Court
further GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against Defendants
and their attorney of record, jointly and severally, in the reduced amount of $1,750. Said monetary sanctions are
to be paid to counsel for Plaintiff within 30 days of the date of this order. 
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file
a proof of service of such.  
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On November 13, 2023, Plaintiff Eric Puig brought this action
individually and on behalf of all other aggrieved employees against Defendants Goodpeople
Roasting LLC and GP Group LLC.
 
The Complaint alleges the following. Defendants own and operate
one or more coffee bars, that also operate as restaurants, bars, and Marijuana
dispensaries, in Southern California. (Compl., ¶ 1.) Plaintiff, along with
other non-exempt employees of Defendants, worked and performed duties and tasks
at these coffee bars and additionally, received wages from Defendants. (Ibid.)
Defendants implemented common policies and practices within their coffee bars
that have resulted in systematic violations of California’s wage and hour laws.
(Compl., ¶ 2.) Plaintiff brings this representative action to recover civil
penalties relating to systematic violations of California wage and hour laws by
Defendants. 
 
On May 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed Motions
to Compel Defendants’ response to Special Interrogatories, Set One and Request
for Production of Documents, Set One. Plaintiff seeks monetary
sanctions. No opposition has been filed.
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.     Legal
Standard 
 
 When a party fails to
serve a timely response to a request for admission, the party propounding the
request for admission may move for an order to deem the genuineness of any
documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests admitted.
(Code Civ. Proc., §¿2033.280, subd. (b).) A party who fails to provide a timely
response waives any objection, including one based on privilege or work product.
(Id., § 2033.280, subd. (a).) “The court shall make this order, unless
it finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed
has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the
requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.
It is mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction… on the party or
attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to requests for
admission necessitated this motion.” (Id., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)
 
B.     Discussion
 
Here, Plaintiff
served Request for Admissions, Set One and Request for Admission as to Genuineness
of Documents, Set One on Defendants on December 22, 2023. (Wheeler Decl. ¶¶ 2,
Exh. A.) Responses were due on or before January 26, 2024. (Id. ¶ 3.) On
February 9, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel sent Defendants a correspondence
regarding its lack of responses. (Id. ¶ 6, Exh. B.) Since then, no
responses have been served. (Id. ¶¶ 7-8.)  Therefore, because responses have not been
served, the motions are granted. The truth
of the matters specified in Request for Admissions, Set One, and Request for
Admission as to Genuineness of Documents, Set One are
hereby deemed admitted.
 
Plaintiff requests $1,750.00 in monetary sanctions for counsel’s
work on its Motion to Deem Request
for Admissions, Set One, Admitted against
Defendants and their counsel of record, representing 2 hours spent on the
motion at an hourly rate of $875. (Id. ¶ 9.)  Plaintiff also requests $1,312.00 in monetary sanctions for counsel’s
work on its Motion
to Deem Request for Admission as to Genuineness of Documents, Set One, Admitted. (Id. ¶ 9.) Thus,
Plaintiff requests a total of $3,062.00 in monetary sanctions. 
 
The Court finds sanctions are warranted because Defendants have
failed to respond. However, the amount requested is excessive due to the type
of motion at issue, the fact no opposition was filed, and the fact counsel can
appear at the hearing remotely. Therefore, the Court awards sanctions in the total
amount of $1,750 (2 hours of attorney time to file both motions and appear at
the hearing.)
 
III. DISPOSITION

 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motions to Deem Request for Admissions, Set One, Admitted and
Request for Admissions as to Genuineness of Documents, Set One, Admitted are
GRANTED. The truth of the matters specified in Request for
Admissions, Set One, and Request for
Admission as to Genuineness of Documents, Set One are hereby deemed admitted.
 
 
The
Court further GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against Defendants
and their attorney of record, jointly and severally, in the reduced amount of $1,750. Said monetary sanctions are
to be paid to counsel for Plaintiff within 30 days of the date of this order. 
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s
order and file a proof of service of such.  