 Case Number:  22STCV35324    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2023    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



JANE DOE C.J. 
 
        
  vs.
 
DOE #1, et al. 
 


 Case
  No.:  22STCV35324 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: December 11, 2023 



 
Defendant’s
demurrer is SUSTAINED, WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
            On
11/4/2022, Plaintiff Jane Doe C.J. filed suit against Doe #1 (a public entity)
and Doe #2 alleging personal injuries and damages from childhood sexual abuse. 
 
            Now,
Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District (LAUSD) demurs to Plaintiff’s FAC.

 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff cannot state a claim because: (1) her FAC fails to
establish compliance with the statutory requirements of CCP section 340.1;
(2)  she has not pled facts with the
required particularity against a public entity; 
(3) her fourth cause of action only creates direct liability for
individuals and not a public entity; and (4) as to public entities, the
retroactive application of AB 218 violates Article XVI, section 6 of the
California Constitution.  
 
            As
to the first contention, the applicable statute of limitations for child sexual
abuse actions is codified in CCP section 340.1 in pertinent part as follows: 
 
(a)  
In an action for recovery of damages
suffered as a result of childhood sexual assault, the time for commencement of
the action shall be within 22 years of the date the plaintiff attains the
age of majority or within five years of the date the plaintiff discovers
or reasonably should have discovered that psychological injury or illness
occurring after the age of majority was caused by the sexual assault, whichever
period expires later, for any of the following actions…
 
 (Section 340.1(a), emphasis added.) 
 
            Here,
Plaintiff is currently 48 years old, and turned the age of majority (i.e., 18)
in 1993. Thus, under the age provision of section 340.1, Plaintiff could have
filed on or before 2015, which is 22 years after she turned 18.
 
Given that
this claim was not filed until 2022, Plaintiff must rely on the discovery
provision of section 340.1 to timely assert this claim. The Court agrees with
Defendant that Plaintiff has not alleged facts which could show that she filed
her Complaint within 5 years of discovering the abuse.
 
As for the
second contention, Defendant argues that Plaintiff has not alleged her claims
with particularity because “her generalized narrative fails to provide any
other substantive information. Plaintiff fails to plead how the School District
knew or should have known that the teacher presented a risk to Plaintiff, or
any students. No specific employees are named who allegedly possessed such
knowledge.” (Motion, 12: 21-23.) However, it would place a nearly
insurmountable hurdle on plaintiffs to allege these specific facts at the
pleading stage. Here, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant knew or should have
known that the teacher presented a risk. Facts which could show this knowledge
are contemplated by the discovery process. Accordingly, Plaintiff has alleged
her claims with sufficient particularity. 
 
As to the
third contention, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action
relies on sections of the Penal Code which only apply to individuals. However,
Plaintiff’s claim is premised on a theory of vicarious liability, rather than
direct liability. Under Govt. Code Section 815.2, a codification of the
respondeat superior doctrine, an employer is vicariously liable for the neglect
of its employees so long as the neglect occurred within the course and scope of
employment. Kassey S. v. City of Turlock (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 1276
holds that a public entity can be liable for any injuries proximately caused by
its employee’s failure to report suspected child abuse.
 
Finally, as
for the fourth contention, Defendant argues that AB 218—which extended the
statute of limitations in child sexual abuse cases and relieved such plaintiffs
from the government claim requirement—is unconstitutional, because it purports
to retroactively exempt childhood sexual abuse plaintiffs from the Government
Claim presentation requirements. The Court declines to take up the question as
to whether or not the retroactivity provision of AB 218 is unconstitutional. However,
the Court notes the case Coats v. New Haven Unified School District
(2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 415 cited to by Plaintiff in opposition. Coats addressed
the claims presentation requirement after section 340.1 was amended and
expanded. The Court in Coats found that the removal of the claims
presentation requirement for child sexual abuse cases was constitutional and
that there was no difference, constitutionally speaking, between a claim
previously barred by the statute of limitations and one barred for failure to
timely comply with the claims presentation requirement. Notably, Defendant did
not address, or distinguish, this case in its reply. In sum, the Court finds an
inadequate basis to find AB 218 unconstitutional.   
 
Plaintiff
will be afforded an opportunity to allege facts which could show compliance
with CCP section 340.1.   
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer is sustained, with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  December   
, 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 
 