 Case Number:  BC670455    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2023    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



MICHAEL
  CHANG 
                           
         vs.
 
FRANCIS
  SEONGJIN RYU 
 


 Case No.: 
  BC670455
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  December 11, 2023



            
Plaintiff’s
motion to tax is DENIED.   
 
On 8/1/2017,
Plaintiff Michael Chang filed suit against Francis Seongjin Ryu alleging
extortion.
 
Now,
Plaintiff moves to tax Defendant’s costs.
 
Discussion 
 
            Plaintiff
moves to tax Defendant’s costs on the grounds that: (1) Defendant is not the
prevailing party; (2) the deposition costs are excessive; and (3) the service
of process fees for members of the LAPD should not be recovered as they were
not called as witnesses.
 
            As
to the first contention, Defendant is the prevailing party. As set forth in Code of Civil Procedure Section
1032(a)(4), a prevailing party: “…includes the party with a net monetary
recovery, a defendant in whose favor a dismissal is entered, a defendant
where neither plaintiff nor defendant obtains any relief, and a defendant as
against those plaintiffs who do not recover any relief against that defendant”
[emphasis added].) 
 
            Defendant also notes in opposition that he is entitled to
recover costs pursuant to his CCP section 998 offer to compromise. 
 
            As to the second contention, Defendant submitted invoices
to corroborate the costs claimed. The Court is
unpersuaded by Plaintiff’s lackluster arguments that the depositions of
Defendant, Plaintiff, Steven Frannsenn, and Young Lim should be struck because
they “seem” excessive or only lasted a short time. Defendant’s attached
invoices indicate that these costs were actually incurred and Plaintiff has not
met his burden to show that these depositions, while short, were not actually
reasonably necessary to the purposes of litigation. 
 
            As
to the third contention, the fact that third-party witnesses are not ultimately
called as witnesses does not mean that costs incurred related to those
witnesses are unreasonable or unnecessary. To conclude otherwise would
incentivize parties to call every subpoenaed witnesses even where unnecessary, lest
they be unable to recover those costs. Here, Defendant served subpoenas for Detective Franssen for deposition as
well as for trial, and as the trial of this matter was continued on several
occasions, Defendant was required to serve a new subpoena upon Detective
Franssen, via the LAPD, for each new trial date. Defendant also served
subpoenas for the records of the LAPD during discovery, and for production at
trial, pertaining to the extortion claim, upon Officer Franssen for his
appearance at deposition (two sessions) and at trial. As such, the costs were
actually incurred, and the Court finds no basis to include the costs were
unreasonable or unnecessary to the purposes of litigation.  
 
            Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to tax is
denied.   
 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  December   
, 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 