 Case Number:  23STCV10042    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


July 11, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV10042




MOTIONS


Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Pitzer College




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Brendan Schultz



 
MOTION
Defendant Pitzer
College (“Defendant”) moves for judgment on the pleadings.  In his complaint, Plaintiff Brendan Schultz
(“Plaintiff”) alleges he is a former student who reported Defendant for
discriminating against Plaintiff based on Plaintiff’s race or ethnicity.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 4, 7, 15-16.)  Plaintiff further alleges, in retaliation,
Defendant failed to endorse Plaintiff’s application for a grant as an alumnus
of Defendant.  (Id., ¶¶ 17-18, 20.)  Defendant moves for judgment on the pleadings
on Plaintiff’s complaint.  Plaintiff
opposes the motion.
ANALYSIS
A motion for
judgment on the pleadings has the same function as a general demurrer but may
be made after the time to demur has expired. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd.
(f).)  “Like a demurrer, the grounds for
the motion [for judgment on the pleadings] must appear on the face of the
challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take
judicial notice.” (Civic Partners
Stockton, LLC v. Youssefi (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1005, 1013.)  In ruling on a motion for judgment on the
pleadings, “[a]ll allegations in the complaint and matters upon which judicial
notice may be taken are assumed to be true.” (Rippon v. Bowen (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1313.) 
Plaintiff’s first
cause of action is under the Unruh Civil Rights Act (“Unruh Act”).  To state a cause of action under the Unruh Act,
Plaintiff must allege Defendant is a business establishment that intentionally
denied Plaintiff full and equal accommodations, advantages, facilities,
privileges, or services based on Plaintiff’s sex, race, color, religion,
ancestry, national origin, disability, medical condition, marital status, or
sexual orientation. (Civ. Code, § 51, subd. (b).)  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant is a non-profit
college.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 5, 7.)  A non-profit educational establishment is not
a business establishment for purposes of the Unruh Act unless it “has some
significant resemblance to an ordinary for-profit business.”  (Doe v. California Lutheran High School
Assn. (2009) 170 Cal.App.4th 828, 839.) 
Plaintiff does not allege Defendant operates in a manner akin to a
for-profit business.  As such, Plaintiff
fails to allege Defendant is liable under the Unruh Act.  
Further, as the
basis for his cause of action under the Unruh Act, Plaintiff cites the
Americans with Disabilities Act, or ADA. 
To state a cause of action under the ADA, Plaintiff must allege he is a
disabled person who suffered adverse actions because of his disabilities.  (Bagatti v. Dept. of Rehabilitation
(2007) 97 Cal.App.4th 344, 360.)  A
violation of the ADA is also a violation of the Unruh Act.  (Baughman v. Walt Disney World Co.
(2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 1483, 1446.)  However,
Plaintiff does not allege facts to show he has a disability within the meaning
of the ADA.  Instead, Plaintiff alleges
Defendant discriminated against Plaintiff because of his racial or ethnic
identity.  Plaintiff mentions a disability
without alleging any supporting facts.  (Complaint,
¶ 14.)  While discrimination based on
racial or ethnic identity violates the Unruh Act, it does not violate the ADA.  The court grants the motion for judgment on
the pleadings as to the first cause of action, and Plaintiff is granted leave
to amend.
Plaintiff’s second
cause of action is for intentional infliction of emotional distress.  “The elements of the tort of intentional
infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the
defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the
probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff's suffering
severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of
the emotional distress by the defendant's outrageous conduct. Conduct to be outrageous
must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a
civilized community.  The defendant must
have engaged in conduct intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the
realization that injury will result.”  (Potter
v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 1001, internal
quotations and citations omitted.) 
Plaintiff alleges Defendant “depriv[ed] [Plaintiff] of a professional
opportunity . . . .”  (Complaint, ¶ 35.)  That is not extreme and outrageous
conduct.  Plaintiff fails to allege facts
to support the cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress.  Thus, the motion is granted as
to that cause of action with leave to amend.
Plaintiff’s third
cause of action is for negligent infliction of emotional distress, or
NIED.  “NIED is a tort in negligence, and the plaintiff must establish the
elements of duty, breach of duty, causation, and damages.  [A] right to recover for emotional distress
as a direct victim arises from the breach of a duty that is assumed by the
defendant or imposed on the defendant as a matter of law, or that arises out of
the defendant's preexisting relationship with the plaintiff.” (Moon v.
Guardian Postacute Services, Inc. (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 1005, 1009,
internal quotations and citations omitted.) 

Plaintiff alleges Defendant was negligent in
“retaliating against [Plaintiff] by depriving [Plaintiff] of a professional
opportunity for asserting his civil rights after facing discrimination by
initiating an internal civil rights grievance procedure through Pitzer College
and an external civil rights grievance procedure through the US Department of
Education Office of Civil Rights.”  (Complaint,
¶ 45.)  Plaintiff does not allege what
duty Defendant owed to Plaintiff, and how Defendant breached that duty.  Plaintiff fails to allege a claim for
negligent infliction of emotional distress. 
For the same reason, Plaintiff’s twelfth cause of action for negligence
fails, and the motion is granted as to those causes of action with leave to
amend.
Plaintiff’s fourth
cause of action is for breach of contract. 
Plaintiff is entitled to plead breach of contract in general terms.   (Ochs v. PacifiCare of Cal. (2004) 115
Cal.App.4th 782, 795.)  Plaintiff,
nonetheless, must allege defendant offered to enter into an agreement with
Plaintiff, and Plaintiff accepted that offer. 
(See Donovan v. RRL Corp. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 261, 270-271 [“An
essential element of any contract is the consent of the parties, or mutual
assent . . . [which] usually is manifested by an offer communicated to the
offeree and an acceptance communicated to the offeror”].)  Plaintiff alleges Defendant published
policies and procedures on its website and then breached those policies.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 49-54.)  Plaintiff fails to allege facts to suggest Defendant
intended these policies to constitute contractual offers to Plaintiff.  Plaintiff’s allegations suggest Defendant’s
policies are open offers for Defendant to contract with anyone who visits
Defendant’s website, which is irrational. 
As such, Plaintiff fails to allege Defendant breached a contract with
Plaintiff.  For the same reason,
Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action for breach of the implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing fails.  (See Smith
v. City and County of San Francisco (1990) 225 Cal.App.3d 38, 49 [“The
prerequisite for any action for breach of the implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing is the existence of a contractual relationship between the
parties, since the covenant is an implied term in the contract”].)  Thus, the motion as to these cause of actions
is granted with leave to amend. 
Plaintiff’s sixth
and eighth causes of action are for fraud. 
Plaintiff must allege fraud with particularity.  “This means: (1) general pleading of the
legal conclusion of fraud is insufficient; and (2) every element of the cause
of action for fraud must be alleged in full, factually and specifically, and
the policy of liberal construction of pleading will not usually be invoked to
sustain a pleading that is defective in any material respect.”  (Wilhelm v. Pray, Price, Williams &
Russell (1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 1324, 1331.) 
To state a claim for promissory fraud, Plaintiff must allege specific
factual circumstances beyond contract breach, which reflect Defendant’s
contemporaneous intent not to perform.  (Hills
Transportation Co. v. Southwest Forest Ind., Inc. (1968) 266 Cal.App.2d
702, 707.)  
Plaintiff alleges Defendant
represented it would not retaliate against complaints of discrimination, nonetheless
Defendant discriminated against Plaintiff after Plaintiff reported
discrimination.  (Complaint,
¶¶ 71-73, 94-98.)  Plaintiff fails to
allege specific facts to show Defendant did not intend to abide by its
representation at the time it made the representation.  Plaintiff fails to allege facts to support the
causes of action for fraud, and the motion as to those causes of action is granted
with leave to amend.
Plaintiff’s
seventh cause of action is for negligent misrepresentation.  Plaintiff alleges Defendant represented to
Plaintiff that Defendant would not retaliate against persons who make complaints
of discrimination, but Defendant discriminated against Plaintiff after
Plaintiff reported discrimination.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 82-84.)  There is no cause of action for a negligent
false promise.  (Tarmann v. State Farm
Mutual Automobile Insurance Company (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 159.)  Accordingly, Plaintiff’s claim for negligent
misrepresentation fails as a matter of law. 
The motion as to that cause of action is granted without leave to amend.
Plaintiff’s ninth
cause of action is for willful misconduct; the tenth is for reckless misconduct;
and the eleventh is for gross negligence. 
These are not causes of action but rather principles of liability.  (See Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 526 [willful misconduct “is not a separate tort, but simply, “““‘an
aggravated form of negligence”””’’”]; see also Calvillo-Silva v. Home
Grocery (1998) 19 Cal.4th 714, 729-730 [noting willful or wanton behavior
is separate and distinct from negligence in that they involve different principles
of liability and different defenses].)  The
Court grants the motion for judgment on the pleadings as to these causes of
action without leave to amend.
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendant’s motion
for judgment on the pleadings on Plaintiff’s complaint is granted without leave
to amend as to the seventh, ninth, tenth, and eleventh causes of action.  The motion is otherwise granted with leave to
amend.  Plaintiff is to file an amended
complaint within 10 days of notice of this order.
Defendant is
ordered to provide notice of this order and to file proof of service thereof. 