 Case Number:  23STCV14015    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPT:


39




HEARING DATE:


July 11, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV14015




MOTION:  


Motion to Compel Further Discovery Responses




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiffs Isamar Cervantes and Yolanda Rodriguez 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant Kia America, Inc.



 
MOTION
            Plaintiffs
Isamar Cervantes and Yolanda Rodriguez (“Plaintiffs”) move to compel Defendant Kia
America, Inc. (“Defendant”) to further respond to Requests for Production of
Documents, set one (“RPD”), Nos. 1-3, 7, 18, 20, 22, 24, 30, 35, 38, 40, 41,
42, 43, 48, 54-56, 65, 73, 75-77, and 85-86.
ANALYSIS
If the propounding
party deems responses to requests for production of documents unsatisfactory,
the propounding party may move to compel further responses.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310.)  
Plaintiffs allege their
2020 Kia Sorrento vehicle had defects Defendant was unable to repair within a
reasonable number of attempts.  Plaintiffs,
therefore, contend Defendant is liable under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty
Act (“Song-Beverly Act”).  Plaintiffs demanded
Defendant produce documents about Plaintiffs’ vehicle and concerning the same
make and model of the vehicle.  To date,
Defendant has produced its sales file, repair orders, and CARFAX history report
for Plaintiffs’ vehicle, copies of a recall and a technical service bulletin
that applied to Plaintiffs’ vehicle, the warranty claim records for Plaintiffs’
vehicle, communications between Plaintiffs and Defendant, and relevant portions
of Defendant’s service policies and procedures. 
(See Declaration of Sharon L. Stewart, Exhibits B, D.)  Defendant refuses to produce documents about
other 2020 Kia Sorrento vehicles.  (See
Opposition to Motion to Compel Further Responses, p. 1.)  
Plaintiffs are
entitled to discovery regarding the alleged defects in other vehicles of the
same year, make, and model as Plaintiffs’ vehicle.  Likewise, Plaintiffs are entitled to evidence
of Defendant’s conduct towards other purchasers of defective vehicles, which is
pertinent to a finding the manufacturer willfully violated the Song-Beverly Act
by failing to adequately repair a vehicle. 
(Johnson v. Ford Motor Co. (2005) 35 Cal. 4th 1191, 1204.)  The court grants the motion to compel further
responses.
Defendant essentially
contends the information Plaintiffs seek about defects in vehicles of the same
make and model as Plaintiffs’ vehicle is irrelevant.  “In the context of discovery, evidence is
‘relevant’ if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating its case,
preparing for trial, or facilitating a settlement.  Admissibility is not the test, and it is
sufficient if the information sought might reasonably lead to other, admissible
evidence.” (Glenfed Development Corp. v.
Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1117.)  As set forth above, information about the same
make and model as Plaintiffs’ vehicle is pertinent to this case.  
Defendant claims
Plaintiffs’ definition of “electrical defect(s)” in the RPD is improper.  Plaintiffs defined “electrical defect(s)” as
“one or more defect(s) within the electrical architecture of the Kia Sorento
vehicles equipped with the same electrical architecture as the SUBJECT VEHICLE
that can result in (1) loss of power, (2) battery draining, (3) lights dimming
or flickering, (4) power windows, doors or locks not working, (5) failure to
start, (6) malfunctioning of the instrument cluster, (7) malfunction or failure
of the auto start-stop feature (8) malfunction or failure of the engine
stop-start (ESS) feature (9) malfunctioning or failure of the fuses, modules,
and/or relays; as well as, any other similar concerns identified in the repair
history for the SUBJECT VEHICLE.”  (See
Plaintiffs’ Separate Statement, p. 7.)  This
definition is reasonably particularized, as required: it specifies information
about issues with the electrical architecture in Kia Sorrento vehicles.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.030, subd. (c)(1).)  Further, even if Defendant objects to this
definition, Defendant must, at minimum, identify documents responsive to the
RPD that incorporate the definition as Defendant understands it.  (Standon Co. v. Superior Court (1990)
225 Cal.App.3d 898, 901, fn. 3.)  
The court declines
to impose sanctions.  The court notes, on
February 7, 2024, Defendant responded to Plaintiffs’ letter regarding
Defendant’s responses to the RPD.  (Declaration of Sharon L. Stewart, Exhibit
C.)  Instead of further engaging with
Defendant, Plaintiffs declared the parties at an impasse and filed this
motion.  Further efforts to informally
resolve this dispute may have avoided the need for judicial intervention or, at
the very least, may have narrowed the issues before the court, particularly as
Defendant did produce some of the documents Plaintiffs seek in this motion,
including the documents regarding Defendant’s policies and procedures.  (See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2016.040, 2031.310,
subd. (b)(2).)  Accordingly, a sanctions
award would be unjust under the circumstances. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (h).)            
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Plaintiffs’ motion
to compel further responses to the RPD is granted.  Defendant is to produce responsive documents
that pertain to vehicles of the same year, make, and model of Plaintiffs’ vehicle.
Plaintiffs are
ordered to give notice of this order and to file proof of service of same.
 