 Case Number:  23PSCV03427    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME: Yang  Yang, et al. v. Foothill Christian Church Corporation, et al. 1.     Defendants’ Foothill Church of Glendora and Lindsey Wilson’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First  Amended Complaint; and 2.      Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Seventh Cause of Action  with leave to amend. The Court OVERRULES the demurrer in all other respects.  Plaintiffs must file and serve an amended complaint within 20 days of the  Court’s order. Alternatively, if Plaintiffs decline to amend and choose to  proceed on the remaining causes of action, Defendants must file and serve an  answer within 30 days of the Court’s order.               The Court GRANTS the motion to  strike to the following portions of the First Amended Complaint:   1.       Paragraph 7, page 3 line 4, “jointly and severally”; 2.       Paragraph 49, “emotional distress, mental anguish, embarrassment,  humiliation and anxiety and “cost of counseling and therapy as a direct result  of FOOTHILL’S and MRS. WILSON’s breach of the Contract.” “MRS. WILSON’S”, “MRS.  WILSON’S”; 3.       Paragraph 60, page 13, line 18, “and MRS. WILSON” “their” 4.       Paragraph 63, page 14, line 7 “and MRS WILSON”               The Court DENIES the motion to  strike in all other respects.  Defendants are ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within  five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a case involving childhood bullying. On November 3, 2023,  plaintiffs Nicholas Amoroso (Nicholas), Yang Yang, Marilyn Amoroso, a minor, by  and through her parent and guardian ad litem, Nicholas Amoroso (collectively,  Plaintiffs) filed this action. On February 23, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the  operative First Amended Complaint (FAC) against defendants Foothill Christian  Church Corporation (Foothill), Lindsey Wilson (Wilson) (collectively,  Defendants), and Does 1 through 10, alleging causes of action for breach of contract,  breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, negligent  supervision, negligent infliction of emotional distress, intentional infliction  of emotional distress, California civil rights violation, and fraud in the  inducement of a contract.  On March 25, 2024, Defendants demurred to and moved to strike the  FAC. On April 16, 2024, Plaintiffs opposed the demurrer and motion to strike.  Defendants did not reply to the oppositions.  LEGAL  STANDARD – Demurrer              A demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency  of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form  or content of the opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or  cross-complaint). (Code Civ. Proc., § 422.10; see Donabedian v.  Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) It is not the function  of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for  purposes of ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are  assumed to be true. (Id.)  A  demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the  pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially  noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian,  supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 994.) No other extrinsic evidence can be  considered. (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868,  881 [error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting  demurrer]; see also Afuso v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862, disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal  v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287 [error to consider  contents of release not part of court record].)  A  demurrer can be utilized where the “face of the complaint” itself is incomplete  or discloses some defense that would bar recovery. (Guardian North Bay, Inc.  v. Superior Court (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 963, 971-972.) The “face of  the complaint” includes material contained in attached exhibits that are  incorporated by reference into the complaint, or in a superseded complaint in the same action. (Frantz v.  Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94; see also Barnett v. Fireman’s  Fund Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 500, 505 [“[W]e rely on and accept as true the contents of the exhibits and treat as  surplusage the pleader’s allegations as to the legal effect of the exhibits.”])  A demurrer  can only be sustained when it disposes of an entire cause of action. (Poizner  v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong v. City of  Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency (2003) 108  Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.)  REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE –  Demurrer              The Court GRANTS  Defendants’ requests for judicial notice. (Evid. Code § 452, subd. (d).) But  the Court takes judicial notice of the  foregoing documents only as to “the existence, content and authenticity of  public records and other specified documents,” it does not take judicial notice  of the truth of the factual matters asserted in those documents. (Dominguez v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal. App. 5th 389, 400.)  DISCUSSION –  Demurrer  Meet and Confer  Per Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a)(1),  Defendants were required to meet and confer with Plaintiffs either in person or  by telephone before bringing this demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd.  (a)(1).) Defendants’ supporting declaration does not indicate having met and  conferred in person or by telephone. (Reisdorph Decl., ¶ 6.) Nevertheless, the  Court may not overrule a demurrer for failure to adequately meet and confer.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(4).) The Court will still consider the  demurrer, but admonishes Defendants to comply with the requirements of the Code  of Civil Procedure going forward.  First Cause of Action – Breach of Contract  “A cause of action for breach of contract requires pleading of a  contract, plaintiff's performance or excuse for failure to perform, defendant's  breach and damage to plaintiff resulting therefrom. [Citation.] A written  contract may be pleaded either by its terms—set out verbatim in the complaint  or a copy of the contract attached to the complaint and incorporated therein by  reference—or by its legal effect. [Citation.]” (McKell v. Washington Mutual,  Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489.)  Defendants demur to the First Cause of Action for breach of  contract on the grounds that it fails to state a cause of action, is uncertain,  and it cannot be ascertained whether the contract is written, oral, or implied  by conduct. Defendants contend the FAC alleges breach of contract based on  terms not contained in the written contract, specifically as it pertains to  Foothill’s policies regarding bullying. Defendants argue that it is unclear  whether the terms that were allegedly violated were written, oral, or implied.  Defendants further contend it is unclear whether this cause of action is  alleged only against Foothill or against both Foothill and Wilson, the latter  of whom is not allegedly a party to the written contract. Defendants also  contend that it is unclear as to which alleged bullying activities occurred on  campus or off.  In opposition, Plaintiffs contend that the FAC shows Nicholas and  Foothill entered into a written contracted signed by both parties on January  24, 2022, and that the terms of that contract incorporated Foothill’s policies from  the 2022-2023 Elementary Handbook. Plaintiffs contend neither the contract nor  the Handbook provided a three strikes disciplinary policy, and at most only  mentioned a bullying policy that was not available to Nicholas at the time of  the contract. Plaintiffs contend the FAC alleges Nicholas performed as  promised. Plaintiffs further contend they have alleged that Foothill breached  the contract on January 21, 2023 by adding the three strikes disciplinary  policy, which was not included in the original contract, and then removing  Marilyn from the school under that policy.  The Court finds the FAC contains sufficient allegations to state a  cause of action for breach of contract. The Court liberally construes pleadings  at this stage with a view toward substantial justice between the parties. (Code  Civ. Proc., § 452.) In essence, Plaintiffs allege that Nicholas and Yang on the  one hand and Foothill on the other entered into a contract for Marilyn to  attend school during the 2022-2023 and 2023-2024 school years, that the  contract incorporated Foothill’s various policies into its terms, that Foothill  unilaterally added the three strikes disciplinary policy after the fact, and  that Foothill breached by removing Marilyn from the school under that policy.  (FAC, ¶¶ 10-12, 20, 34.) The Court further notes that the FAC alleges Foothill  failed to comply with its own policy regarding bullying by failing to address  the various instances of bullying Marilyn experienced. (FAC, ¶¶ 13-33.)  Moreover, the Court does not find that it cannot be ascertained from  the FAC whether the contract is oral or written. (Maxwell v. Dolezal (2014)  231 Cal.App.4th 93, 99 [if contract as a whole can be construed as written  despite unclear pleadings, the claim is not subject to demurrer under Code of  Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (g)].) The FAC expressly alleges  that Nicholas and Yang on the one hand and Foothill on the other entered into a  written contract, which forms the basis of this action. (FAC, ¶ 10.) The FAC  also alleges that Wilson gave Nicholas notice of the modification to include  the three strikes disciplinary policy in an email, which was sent after  Nicholas allegedly registered Marilyn for the 2023-2024 school year and paid  all fees. (FAC, ¶¶ 19-20.) The Court finds these allegations sufficient to  demonstrate the existence of a written contract.  Furthermore, the Court does not find the FAC uncertain as to  whether this cause of action is alleged against Wilson. (Lickiss v.  Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1125, 1135  [demurrers for uncertainty are disfavored because ambiguities and be clarified  through modern rules of discovery].) The FAC indicates at the top of the First  Cause of Action that it is directed to Foothill only. (FAC, 8:21-23; see also  Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.112, subd. (4) [“Each separately stated cause of  action, count, or defense must specifically state: (4) The party or parties to  whom it is directed (e.g., ‘against defendant Smith’)”.]) While the FAC does  allege in certain places that Wilson breached the contract, (FAC, ¶¶ 7, 49),  the Court reads this as Wilson doing so in her capacity as employee of  Foothill, (FAC, ¶ 5).[1] Any ambiguity on this point can be clarified through discovery. (See Lickiss,  supra, 208 Cal.App.4th at p. 1135.) Additionally, since Defendants brought  this demurrer together rather than separately, (Notice of Demurrer, 2:6-11), it  is enough for Plaintiffs to have alleged a cause of action for breach of  contract against Foothill, (Majestic Realty Co. v. Pacific Lighting Corp. (1974)  37 Cal.App.3d 641, 642-643 [a joint special demurrer of two defendants must be  overruled if the complaint is good against the other]).  Based on the foregoing, the Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the  First Cause of Action.  Second Cause of Action – Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith  and Fair Dealing   “’The covenant of good faith is implied as a  supplement to express contractual covenants to prevent a contracting party from  engaging in conduct that frustrates the other party's rights to the benefits of  the agreement.’ [Citation.]” (Thompson Pac. Constr., Inc. v. City of  Sunnyvale (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 525, 541.) To state a cause of action for  breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, the plaintiff  must allege facts demonstrating breach beyond the contractual duty itself. (Howard  v. American National Fire Ins. Co. (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 498, 528.)  Defendants demur to the Second Cause of Action for breach of the  implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing on the grounds that it fails to  state a cause of action, is uncertain, and it cannot be ascertained from the  pleading whether the contract is written, oral, or implied by conduct. More  specifically, Defendants contend this cause of action is duplicative of the  First Cause of Action.  In opposition, Plaintiffs contend they have alleged Foothill  breached its contractual obligation, in that Foothill and Wilson prevented  Plaintiffs from receiving the benefits of the contract.  The Court finds the FAC alleges sufficient facts to state a cause  of action for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. The  FAC alleges that the three strikes disciplinary policy was added after Nicholas  had registered and paid for Marilyn to attend Foothill during the 2023-2024  school year. (FAC, ¶¶ 19-20.) The FAC then alleges that Foothill ended  Marilyn’s enrollment at Foothill based on that three strikes disciplinary  policy. (FAC, ¶ 28.) Viewed as a whole, the Court reads the FAC as alleging  that Foothill unilaterally added this policy after the fact and then used it as  the basis for ending Marilyn’s enrollment, thereby preventing her from  obtaining the benefits of the contract. (See Cobb v. Ironwood Country Club (2015)  233 Cal.App.4th 960, 963 [“When one party to a contract retains the unilateral right to  amend the agreement governing the parties' relationship, its exercise of that  right is constrained by the covenant of good faith and fair dealing which  precludes amendments that operate retroactively to impair accrued rights.”])  Therefore,  the Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the Second Cause of Action.  Fourth Cause of Action – Negligent Infliction of Emotional  Distress  To state a cause of action for negligent infliction of emotional  distress, the plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating the traditional  elements of duty, breach, causation, and damages. (Eriksson v. Nunnink (2015)  233 Cal.App.4th 708, 729.)  Defendants demur to the Fourth Cause of Action for negligent  infliction of emotional distress on the grounds that it fails to state a cause  of action. Defendants contend this is a duplicate of the Third Cause of Action  for negligent supervision and Fifth Cause of Action for intentional infliction  of emotional distress.  In opposition, Plaintiffs contend they have alleged sufficient  facts to state a cause of action for negligent infliction of emotional  distress, namely that Defendants owed a duty to Marilyn, they breached that  duty, and Marilyn was harmed as a result. Plaintiffs also contend a demurrer is  not the place for a factual dispute, which Defendants are attempting here.  The Court finds the FAC alleges sufficient facts to  state a cause of action for negligent infliction of emotional distress. The FAC  alleges that Foothill was Marilyn’s school and that Wilson was an employee of  Foothill, and thereby alleges the basis for the duty to Marilyn. (FAC, ¶¶ 4-5;  see Doe v. Lawndale Elementary Sch. Dist. (2021) 72  Cal.App.5th 113, 125-126 [school districts and their employees have special  relationships with their students and thereby owe their students a duty of  care].) The FAC further alleges that Defendants breached that duty by failing  to address the bullying, blaming Marilyn for the bullying she was experiencing,  and embarrassing her in front of others, and that Marilyn suffered emotional  and other harm as a result. (FAC, ¶¶ 74-76.)  The Court notes that a cause of action for negligent  supervision differs from a regular negligence cause of action because the  former focuses on the employer’s failure to supervise the employee. (See J.W. v. Watchtower Bible & Tract Soc'y of New York, Inc.  (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 1142, 1163.) Additionally, intentional infliction of  emotional distress differs because it is an intentional tort and is not based  in negligence. (See Moncada v. West Coast Quartz Corp. (2013) 221  Cal.App.4th 768, 780.) Thus, the Court does not find this cause of action for  negligent infliction of emotional distress duplicative of the Third or Fifth  Causes of Action. (See Palm Springs Villas II Homeowners Assn., Inc. v.  Parth (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 268, 290 [duplicative causes of action  generally subject to demurrer].)  Therefore, the Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the Fourth Cause of  Action.  Fifth Cause of Action – Intentional Infliction of Emotional  Distress  To state a cause of action for intentional infliction  of emotional distress, the plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating, “(1)  defendant engaged in extreme and outrageous conduct (conduct so extreme as to  exceed all bounds of decency in a civilized community) with the intent to  cause, or with reckless disregard to the probability of causing, emotional  distress; and (2) as a result, plaintiff suffered extreme or severe emotional  distress.” (Berry v. Frazier (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th 1258, 1273.)  Defendants demur to the Fifth Cause of Action for  intentional infliction of emotional distress on the grounds that it fails to  state a cause of action. Defendants contend their alleged conduct is not  extreme or outrageous. Defendants contend calling Marilyn in to the office  regarding bullying is not extreme, but rather is consistent with Foothill’s  policies, and that blaming Marilyn herself for the bulling is not contradicted  by the prior allegations that Marilyn was involved in the underlying activities  at issue. Defendants also contend that involving Marilyn in a meeting  discussing the reason for her removal from Foothill is not outrageous or  extreme, nor is her removal from the music program in front of several peers.  In opposition, Plaintiffs contend they have alleged  sufficient facts to state a cause of action for intentional infliction of  emotional distress. Plaintiffs contend that Defendants do not dispute the facts  alleged, but instead they seek to downplay the seriousness of their actions and  their effect on Marilyn.  The Court agrees with Plaintiffs. Whether conduct is  extreme and outrageous is a question of fact. (Berry, supra, 90  Cal.App.5th at p. 1274.) Demurrers are not the appropriate place for  determining the truth of disputed facts. (See Panterra GP, Inc. v. Superior  Court of Kern County (2022) 74 Cal. App. 5th 697, 709.) The TAC alleges Defendants  engaged in instances of potentially extreme and outrageous conduct directed  towards Marilyn, a nine-year-old child, by allegedly telling her she was no  longer welcome to participate in the school’s music group in front of her peers  or by allegedly failing to address repeated instances of bullying or by  allegedly blaming her for the bullying she allegedly experienced. (See FAC, ¶¶ 29,  78.) Thus, whether Defendants’ alleged conduct was extreme and outrageous will  not be resolved on this demurrer.  Therefore, the Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the  Fifth Cause of Action.  Sixth  Cause of Action – California Civil Rights Violation  To  state a cause of action under the Ralph Act, the plaintiff must allege facts  demonstrating that “the defendant threatened or  committed violent acts against the plaintiff or their property, and a  motivating reason for doing so was a prohibited discriminatory motive, or that  the defendant aided, incited, or conspired in the denial of a protected right.  [Citations.]” (Gabrielle A. v. Cnty. of Orange  (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 1268, 1291.) To state a cause of action under the Bane  Act, the plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating violence or intimidation by  threat of violence, and that violence or threat of violence, “must be due to  plaintiff's membership in one of the specified classifications set forth in  Civil Code section 51.7 or a group similarly protected by constitution or  statute from hate crimes. [Citations.]” (Id., at p. 1290.)  Defendants demur to the Sixth Cause of Action for  violations of Civil Code sections 51.7 and 52.1, i.e., the Ralph Act and the  Bane Act, respectively, on the grounds that it fails to state a cause of action.  Defendants contend Plaintiffs’ allegations in support of this cause of action  are the actions of third parties, and that there are no allegations that  Defendants directly threatened violence to Plaintiffs. Defendants contend both  of these actions require violence. Defendants also contend speech alone is not  sufficient to constitute a violation unless it involves a threat of violence.  Defendants further contend there is no connection between the harassment and  Marilyn’s race.  In opposition, Plaintiffs cite an incident alleged in  the FAC regarding one of the perpetrators who bullied Marilyn intentionally hit  her in the face with a metal water bottle, causing significant physical and  emotional harm. Plaintiffs contend the TAC alleges the bullying of Marilyn was  due to her Asian heritage and her physical appearance on many occasions.  The Court agrees that the TAC fails to allege sufficient facts  under the BANE Act as plaintiffs fail to allege any acts of violence or threats  of violence by Defendants. However, the Court finds the TAC alleges sufficient  facts to state a cause of action based on the Ralph Act. The TAC alleges  specific instances of bullying connected to Marilyn’s race or Asian heritage.  (TAC, ¶¶ 14-16, 24, 82.) The TAC also alleges an instance in which one of  Marilyn’s bullies hit her in the face with a metal water bottle and caused her  severe injuries. (TAC, ¶ 26.) The TAC further alleges that Defendants failed to  address the bullying on multiple occasions, (TAC, ¶¶ 17-18, 26), which could be  construed as aiding in the denial of a protected right, (see Gabrielle,  supra, 10 Cal.App.5th at p. 1291.)  Since a demurrer can only be sustained  when it disposes of an entire cause of action, the Court OVERRULES the  demurrer to the Sixth Cause of Action. (Poizner,  supra, 148 Cal.App.4th at p. 119; Kong, supra, 108 Cal.App.4th at p.  1046.)  Seventh  Cause of Action – Fraud in the Inducement of a Contract              To  state a cause of action for fraudulent misrepresentation, the plaintiff must  allege facts demonstrating, “(a) misrepresentation (false  representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or  ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable  reliance; and (e) resulting damage. [Citations.]” (Lazar v. Superior Ct.  (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638.) “[F]raud must be pled specifically; general and  conclusory allegations do not suffice. [Citations]. Thus, the policy of liberal  construction of the pleadings ... will not ordinarily be invoked to sustain a  pleading defective in any material respect.’ ” [Citation.] [¶] This  particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by  what means the representations were tendered.” [Citation.] A plaintiff's burden  in asserting a fraud claim against a corporate employer is even greater. In  such a case, the plaintiff must “allege the names of the persons who made the  allegedly fraudulent representations, their authority to speak, to whom they  spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written. [Citation.]” (Lazar,  supra, 12 Cal.4th at p. 645.) “Fraud in the inducement is a subset of the  tort of fraud. It occurs when the promisor knows what he is signing but his  consent is induced by fraud, mutual assent is present and a contract is formed,  which, by reason of the fraud, is voidable. [Citations.]” (Dhital v. Nissan N. Am., Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th  828, 839, internal quotation marks omitted.)              Defendants  demur to the Seventh Cause of Action for fraud in inducement of a contract on  the grounds that it fails to state a cause of action. Defendants contend the  FAC contains no allegations indicating that Foothill did not intend to enroll  Plaintiffs into the 2023-2024 school year, but instead it alleges that  Plaintiffs were informed five months after the pre-enrollment agreement that  Plaintiffs would not be allowed to return for the 2023-2024 school year. Defendants  contend the allegations show Marilyn was involved with multiple incidents at  the school that led to her removal from Foothill, and that Plaintiffs only  allege Defendants failed to provide a record of strikes Marilyn received and  failed to provide video evidence of one of the incidents.              In  opposition, Plaintiffs contend they have alleged sufficient facts showing that  Foothill knowingly encouraged Nicholas to enroll Marilyn in the 2023-2024  school year despite not intending on allowing Marilyn to attend that school  year. Plaintiffs cite to the unilateral modification of the disciplinary policy  and exclusively using that policy against Marilyn. Plaintiffs contend this  damaged them because it prevented them from looking elsewhere to enroll  Marilyn, and that no other schools had open enrollment when Marilyn was removed  from Foothill for the 2023-2024 school year.  The  Court finds the FAC fails to allege sufficient facts to state a cause of action  for fraud in the inducement. The FAC lacks the requisite specificity to plead a  fraud cause of action. (Lazar, supra, 12 Cal.4th at p. 645.) The FAC  does not allege any specific misrepresentations made to Nicholas at the time he  allegedly registered Marilyn for the 2023-2024 school year. (FAC, ¶ 20.) The  FAC also does not allege how or when the misrepresentations were made, or who  made the misrepresentations on behalf of Foothill, their authority to so speak  on behalf of Foothill, to whom they spoke, what was communicated, or whether the  communications were oral or in writing. (See Id.; Lazar, supra, 12  Cal.4th at p. 645.) The FAC also fails to allege any facts showing any  representations made with an intent to defraud Plaintiffs.  Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the  Seventh Cause of Action with leave to amend.  LEGAL  STANDARD – Motion to Strike              “Any party, within the time allowed to  respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole  or any part thereof, but this time limitation shall not apply to motions  specified in subdivision (e).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(2).)  “The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in  its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any  irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any  part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of  this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Id., § 436.)  REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE –  Motion to Strike              The Court GRANTS  Defendants’ requests for judicial notice. (Evid. Code § 452, subd. (d).) But  the Court takes judicial notice of the  foregoing documents only as to “the existence, content and authenticity of  public records and other specified documents,” it does not take judicial notice  of the truth of the factual matters asserted in those documents. (Dominguez v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal. App. 5th 389, 400.)  DISCUSSION –  Motion to Strike  Meet and Confer  Per Code of Civil Procedure section 435.5, subdivision (a)(1),  Defendants were required to meet and confer with Plaintiffs either in person or  by telephone before bringing this motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5,  subd. (a)(1).) Defendants’ supporting declaration does not indicate having met  and conferred in person or by telephone. (Reisdorph Decl., ¶ 6.) Nevertheless,  the Court may not deny a motion to strike for failure to adequately meet and  confer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a)(4).) The Court will still consider  the motion to strike, but admonishes Defendants to comply with the requirements  of the Code of Civil Procedure going forward.              Analysis              Defendants seek  to strike various allegations from the FAC which can be broken down into four  categories: (1) alleged joint and several liability of Defendants; (2) improper  emotional distress damages in connection with the breach of contract cause of  action; (3) allegations against Wilson individually; and (4) punitive damages.              Joint and  Several Liability              Defendants  contend the language “jointly and severally liable” in paragraph 7 of the FAC  is improper because the parties are not subject to joint and several liability  as to all causes of action. In opposition, Plaintiffs contend the allegations  against Wilson are proper because she was acting as an agent for Foothill or  was in certain instances the perpetrator of the bullying against Marilyn.              The Court agrees  with Defendants. The allegation that Defendants are jointly and severally  liable for all causes of action in the FAC is unsupported by the other  allegations in the FAC. The FAC does not allege that Plaintiffs entered into a  contract with Wilson in her individual capacity. (FAC, ¶¶ 10, 20.) The only  causes of action alleged against Wilson in the FAC are the Fourth and Fifth  Causes of Action. (FAC, 16:12-14, 17:6-8.) To the extent Plaintiffs are  attempting to hold Wilson individually liable for actions taken in her capacity  as an employee of Foothill, this is improper and subject to a motion to strike.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) Thus, the Court grants the motion to  strike as to request no. 1.              Improper  Emotional Distress Damages in Connection with Breach of Contract Cause of  Action              Emotional distress damages are generally  not recoverable for a breach of contract claim, except when the breach is  accompanied by physical injury or the breach is of such a kind that serious  emotional disturbance was likely to result. (Levy v. Only Cremations for  Pets, Inc. (2020) 57 Cal.App.5th 203, 214.) “[W]hen the express object of the contract is the  mental and emotional well-being of one of the contracting parties, the breach  of the contract may give rise to damages for mental suffering or emotional  distress.” (Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543, 559.)              Defendants  contend certain language regarding emotional distress damages in paragraph 49  of the FAC should be stricken because they are alleged in connection with the  First Cause of Action for breach of contract. Plaintiffs’ opposition does not  address this argument.              The Court agrees with Defendants. The FAC contains no allegations  indicating that the express object of the contract was the mental and emotional  well-being of one of the contracting parties. (See Erlich, supra, 21  Cal.4th at p. 559.) The alleged contract was to provide for Marilyn’s  enrollment at Foothill during the 2022-2023 and 2023-2024 school years. (FAC,  ¶¶ 10, 20.) The Court also construes Plaintiffs’ lack of opposition on this  issue as a tacit admission the Defendants’ argument is meritorious. (Sexton  v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410;  C. Opposing the Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro.  Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶ 9:105.10.) Accordingly, the Court grants the  motion to strike as to request no. 2.              Allegations  Against Wilson Individually              Defendants seek  to strike various allegations against Wilson in her individual capacity, i.e.,  references to Wilson in paragraphs 60, 63, and 103 through 107 of the FAC.  Defendants contend Plaintiffs removed Wilson from various causes of action with  the filing of the FAC, but Plaintiffs did not remove the allegations against  her. Defendants contend Wilson is not a party to the contract, and there are no  allegations that she was authorized to enter or negotiate the contract on  behalf of Foothill.  In  opposition, Plaintiffs acknowledge that Wilson was removed from these causes of  action as a direct party, but that this does not relieve Wilson of  accountability as Foothill’s direct agent acting within her professional  capacity here. Plaintiffs contend that Wilson was the person acting at all  times on behalf of Foothill.  The Court agrees  in part with Defendants. As noted above, the FAC does not allege that Wilson  was a party to the contract. (FAC, ¶¶ 10, 20.) This means the allegations in  paragraphs 60 and 63 against Wilson are untenable since they allege Wilson  breached the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. (FAC, ¶¶ 60, 63; Thompson Pac. Constr., Inc., supra, 155 Cal.App.4th at 541 [must be a  contracting party for a breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair  dealing].)  The  Court declines to strike the language in paragraphs 103 through 107 of the FAC  on the grounds that they are moot. These allegations pertain to the Seventh  Cause of Action, to which the Court sustained the demurrer with leave to amend,  as set forth above. However, Plaintiffs can allege conduct by Wilson within a  cause of action not stated against Wilson.  Accordingly,  the Court grants the motion to strike as to request nos. 3 and 4, but denies  the motion to strike as to request nos. 7-11.  Punitive  Damages  “While  punitive damages may be recovered in a products liability case [citation] and  in a negligence action [citation], in order to justify an award of punitive  damages on the basis of a conscious disregard of the safety of others, the  plaintiff must establish that the defendant was aware of the probable dangerous  consequences of its conduct and that it wilfully [sic] and deliberately failed  to avoid those consequences. [Citation.]” (Hilliard v. A. H. Robins Co.  (1983) 148 Cal.App.3d 374, 395, italics in original.)  Defendants  seek to strike the word “exemplary” from paragraph 99 of the FAC, along with  paragraphs 96 and 109 in their entirety and the prayer for punitive damages for  the Seventh Cause of Action. Defendants contend the FAC fails to allege  sufficient facts entitling Plaintiffs to punitive damages on the grounds that  Plaintiffs failed to allege acts of violence for the Sixth Cause of Action.  Defendants also contend Wilson should have been removed from the allegations in  connection with the Seventh Cause of Action. Defendants further contend the FAC  fails to allege facts demonstrating that Foothill acted with oppression or  malice, and that punitive damage claims against corporations require  allegations that the act was committed by an officer, director, or managing  agent, which the FAC does not do.  In  opposition, Plaintiffs contend Defendants are attempting to litigate factual  disputes. Plaintiffs contend they have alleged Defendants knew of the bullying  but still failed to protect Marilyn, and that Marilyn was dismissed from the  school in a public setting.  The Court  finds the FAC alleges sufficient facts to support requests for punitive  damages. As noted above, the Court found the FAC stated sufficient facts to  state a cause of action for violation of the Ralph Act, which permits recovery  of punitive damages. (Civ. Code, § 52, subd. (b)(1).) The Court also finds that  the FAC alleges Wilson is a managing agent for purposes of Civil Code section  3294, subdivision (b). (See FAC, ¶¶ 5, 7.) The Court therefore declines to  strike the word “exemplary” from paragraph 99 of the FAC and declines to strike  paragraph 96 of the FAC. Accordingly, the Court denies the motion to strike as  to request nos. 5 and 6.  With respect  to paragraph 109 and the prayer for relief for the Seventh Cause of Action, the  Court declines to strike these portions of the FAC on the grounds that they are  moot in light of the Court sustaining the demurrer to the Seventh Cause of  Action with leave to amend. Thus, the Court denies the motion to strike as to  request nos. 12 and 13.  CONCLUSION  The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Seventh Cause of Action  with leave to amend. The Court OVERRULES the demurrer in all other respects.  Plaintiffs must file and serve an amended complaint within 20 days of the  Court’s order. Alternatively, if Plaintiffs decline to amend and choose to proceed  on the remaining causes of action, Defendants must file and serve an answer to  the remaining causes of action in the FAC within 30 days of the Court’s order.              The Court GRANTS the motion to  strike to the following portions of the First Amended Complaint:  1.       Paragraph 7, page 3 line 4, “jointly and severally”; 2.       Paragraph 49, “emotional distress, mental anguish, embarrassment,  humiliation and anxiety and “cost of counseling and therapy as a direct result  of FOOTHILL’S and MRS. WILSON’s breach of the Contract.” “MRS. WILSON’S”, “MRS.  WILSON’S”; 3.       Paragraph 60, page 13, line 18, “and MRS. WILSON” “their” 4.       Paragraph 63, page 14, line 7 “and MRS WILSON”               The Court DENIES the motion to  strike in all other respects.  Defendants are ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within  five calendar days of this order.     