 Case Number:  21STCV33062    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  MARTHA MEDINA NAVARRO, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  WALMART INC., ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV33062  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANTS’ UNOPPOSED MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  February 15, 2024  I. Background Plaintiff Martha Medina Navarro (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants Walmart Inc. (“Walmart”) and Moises Doe for damages arising from a slip and fall on September 29, 2019 at the Walmart located on 14530 Nordhoff Street, Panorama City, CA 91402. (Compl. at ¶ 7.) Plaintiff alleges defendants allowed a liquid substance to remain on the floor, thereby causing Plaintiff to sustain injuries. (Id. at ¶ 8.) The complaint sets forth two causes of action for negligence and premises liability.   Walmart now moves for summary judgment, or in the alternative summary adjudication, as to Plaintiff’s complaint. Any opposition was due on or before February 1, 2024. The motion is unopposed.  II. Motion for Summary Judgment  Burdens on Summary Judgment A party may move for summary judgment “if it is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (a).) “[I]f all the evidence submitted, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law,” the moving party will be entitled to summary judgment.  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) A motion for summary adjudication may be made by itself or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (f)(2).)       The moving party bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact, and if the party does so, the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850; accord Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Med. Ctr. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)    “When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi, supra, 159 Cal.App.4th at p. 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(c).) B.  Negligence/Premises Liability  The elements of a cause of action for premises liability are the same as those for negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages.  (Castellon v. U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998.)  Those who own, possess, or control property generally have a duty to exercise ordinary care in managing the property to avoid exposing others to an unreasonable risk of harm.  (Annocki v. Peterson Enterprises, LLC (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32, 37.)  The existence and scope of duty are legal questions for the court.  (Id. at 36.)  If a dangerous condition exists, the property owner is “under a duty to exercise ordinary care either to make the condition reasonably safe for their use or to give a warning adequate to enable them to avoid the harm.”  (Bridgman v. Safeway Stores, Inc. (1960) 53 Cal.2d 443, 446.)  “A plaintiff alleging injuries based on a dangerous condition must prove the defendant either: (1) created the dangerous condition, or (2) knew or should have known of the dangerous condition.  (See Peralta v. Vons Companies, Inc. (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1030, 1036; see also Ortega v. Kmart Corp. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200, 1206.)  “[A] defendant is entitled to judgment as a matter of law if the plaintiff fails to show that the dangerous condition existed for at least a sufficient time to be discovered by ordinary care and inspection.”  (Ortega, 26 Cal.4th at 1207.)    Walmart contends there is no evidence that it had actual or constructive knowledge of the spill on the floor. Walmart argues Plaintiff concedes she has no evidence of how long the spill was on the floor. Walmart avers the subject store of Plaintiff’s slip and fall are inspected and maintained by its associates on a frequent basis, including specifically assigned maintenance associates. Walmart contends the surveillance video, although not capturing the incident, captured its maintenance associate John Abd El Malak (“Mr. Malak”) dry mopping the aisles. At 4:16:48 p.m., approximately 3 minutes and 33 seconds before the incident, Mr. Malak was seen dry mopping and zoning the end of the aisle where the incident occurred. Plaintiff entered the subject aisle at approximately 4:20:21 p.m. and fell within six seconds of entering the aisle based on the reaction of an unknown customer walking toward Plaintiff at 4:20:27 p.m. Mr. Malak declares that he personally inspected the end of the aisle where Plaintiff fell approximately 3 and a half minutes before her fall, and that he did not see anything on the floor. (Malak Decl. ¶10.) Here, Walmart met its prima facie burden that it inspected its floors, and that it had neither actual or constructive notice of the spill with sufficient time to discover and remedy the condition. Therefore, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to produce evidence showing a triable issue of material fact. Because Plaintiff did not oppose the motion, she necessarily fails to meet this burden.   Based on the foregoing, Walmart’s motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 14th day of February 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   