 Case Number:  23STCV21351    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  YAQUELIN RODRIGUEZ, ET AL., Plaintiff(s),  vs.  HUGO OVANDO, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 23STCV21351  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO STRIKE   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  February 15, 2024  I. Background Plaintiffs Yaquelin Rodriguez and Jimmy Ayala (“Plaintiffs”) filed their First Amended Complaint (FAC) against defendant Hugo Ovando (“Defendant”) for injuries arising from an automobile incident.  Plaintiffs allege that, on September 6, 2021, under the influence of alcohol, Defendant operated a motor vehicle and collided with Plaintiffs’ motor vehicle. The FAC sets forth two causes of action for negligence and negligent entrustment.  The FAC includes a prayer for punitive damages.  Defendant now moves to strike (1) allegations contained on page 6, paragraph 23, lines 10 – 15 and (2) the prayer for punitive damages on Page 7, number 3, line 12 of the FAC.  Plaintiffs oppose the motion, and Defendant filed a reply.   II. Motion to Strike Meet and Confer Before filing a demurrer and motion to strike, the demurring and moving party is required to meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading demurred to and sought to be stricken in person or by telephone for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the issues in argued in the demurrer and motion to strike.¿(Code of Civ. Proc. sections 430.41; 435.5.)¿  The Court finds Defendant has met his obligation in this regard. (Decl. Cohanghadosh, ¶¶ 5-6.)  Legal Standard  California law authorizes a party’s motion to strike matter from an opposing party’s pleading if it is irrelevant, false, or improper.  (CCP §§ 435; 436(a).)  Motions may also target pleadings or parts of pleadings which are not filed or drawn in conformity with applicable laws, rules or orders.  (CCP § 436(b).)  A motion to strike is used to address defects that appear on the face of a pleading or from judicially noticed matter but that are not grounds for a demurrer.  (Pierson v Sharp Memorial Hospital (1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 340, 342; see also City & County of San Francisco v Strahlendorf (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1911, 1913 (motion may not be based on a party's declaration or factual representations made by counsel in the motion papers).)  In particular, a motion to strike can be used to attack the entire pleading or any part thereof – in other words, a motion may target single words or phrases, unlike demurrers.  (Warren v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Railway Co. (1971) 19 Cal.App.3d 24, 40.)  The Code of Civil Procedure also authorizes the Court to act on its own initiative to strike matters, empowering the Court to enter orders striking matter “at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper.”  (CCP § 436.)  Driving Under the Influence  Allegations that a defendant exhibited a conscious disregard for the safety of others are sufficient to show malice.  (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 895-96.)  The Taylor court concluded that the act of operating a motor vehicle while intoxicated may constitute an act of "malice" under section 3294 if performed under circumstances which disclose a conscious disregard of the probable dangerous consequences. "One who wilfully consumes alcoholic beverages to the point of intoxication, knowing that he thereafter must operate a motor vehicle, thereby combining sharply impaired physical and mental faculties with a vehicle capable of great force and speed, reasonably may be held to exhibit a conscious disregard of the safety of others."  (Id., at p. 897.)  To properly allege punitive damages in a motor vehicle accident action, a plaintiff simply needs to "establish that the defendant was aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his conduct, and that he wilfully and deliberately failed to avoid those consequences."  (Id., at p. 896.)  If the essential gravamen of the complaint is that "Defendant became intoxicated and thereafter drove a car while in that condition, despite his knowledge of the safety hazard he created thereby" then this is sufficient to allege punitive damages.  (Ibid.)  While a history of prior arrests, convictions and mishaps may heighten the probability and foreseeability of an accident, we do not deem these aggravating factors essential prerequisites to the assessment of punitive damages in drunk driving cases.  (Ibid.)  The Taylor court justified imposing punitive damages upon the “deliberate” drunk driver for many reasons, including the high degree of foreseeability of injury and damage flowing from driving while intoxicated.  The court says the essential allegation is that defendant became intoxicated and thereafter drove a car while in that condition, despite his knowledge of the safety hazard he created thereby.   The decision also discusses the grave havoc wrought by intoxicated drivers nationwide and equates the act of deliberately driving while under the influence with a conscious and deliberate disregard of the interests of others which may be described as willful or wanton. Such conduct, the court said, has traditionally been a basis for awarding punitive damages. (Herrick v. Superior Court (1987) 188 Cal.App.3d 787, 790.)  The Taylor court fell short, however, of holding that punitive damages are always appropriate in cases involving driving while intoxicated.  The Court noted, “we have concluded that the act of operating a motor vehicle while intoxicated may constitute an act of ‘malice’ under §3294 if performed under circumstances which disclose a conscious disregard of the probable dangerous consequences.”  (Id. at 892.)   Notably, a subsequent decision held that driving while intoxicated does not always give rise to a claim for punitive damages.  “[W]e do not agree that the risk created generally by one who becomes intoxicated and decides nevertheless to drive a vehicle on the public streets is the same as the risk created by an intoxicated driver’s decision to zigzag in and out of traffic at 65 miles per hour in a crowded beach recreation area at 1:30 in the afternoon on a Sunday in June. The risk of injury to others from ordinary driving while intoxicated is certainly foreseeable, but it is not necessarily probable. The risk of injury to others from Mardian's conduct under the circumstances alleged was probable.”  (Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82.)    The court went on to note, “In contrast, in the case at bench, as previously noted, petitioners pleaded specific facts from which the conscious disregard of probable injury to others may reasonably be inferred. Justice Franson aptly noted the distinction in his article on punitive damages in vehicle accident cases: Allegations of intoxication, excessive speed, driving with defective equipment or the running of a stop signal, without more, do not state a cause of action for punitive damages. [Par.] On the other hand, if the facts show that the defendant intentionally drove his vehicle at a high speed into an intersection crowded with pedestrians, or if he drove at a high speed through a crowded residential area where children were playing in the street, a legitimate inference of actual malice perhaps could arise. This would be particularly true if the defendant had not been drinking, or, if drinking, he was not under the influence to the point where he was incapable of being aware of the situation confronting him. Under these circumstances, it reasonably might be said that the defendant acted in such an outrageous and reprehensible manner that the jury could infer that he knowingly disregarded the substantial certainty of injury to others."  Further complicating the matter, in 1987, after all of the foregoing cases were decided, the legislature amended Civil Code §3294 to include a requirement that conduct in conscious disregard of the rights and safety of others be “despicable” in order to support imposition of punitive damages.    Discussion Here, the FAC alleges in pertinent part, that: “Defendant, under the influence of alcohol and driving in a reckless manner, smashed into the rear of the vehicle occupied by Plaintiffs.” (FAC at ¶ 1);  “Plaintiffs knew Defendant was intoxicated as he was disoriented, smelled of alcohol and his speech slurred. During the entire exchange, Defendant could not and did not get out of his vehicle.” (Id. at ¶ 16);  “When Plaintiff AYALA indicated he was going to call the police, Defendant OVANDO lowered his mask and plead with Plaintiff AYALA not to contact law enforcement authorities because he was drunk.” (Ibid.)  “Plaintiffs are informed and believe, and based thereon allege, that Defendant OVANDO has a history of operating motor vehicles while under the influence of alcohol.” (Id. at ¶ 17.)   The FAC further alleges that Defendant required a female friend or cousin to pick him up due to his intoxicated state, and that Defendant fell asleep after waiting for approximately an hour on the scene. (Id. at ¶ 20.) Allegations concerning Defendant being under the influence are not sufficient to state a claim for punitive damages. If it were, it would essentially mean anyone driving under the influence would be subject to punitive damages. There are no allegations to show that Defendant driving under the influence at the time of the incident equates to outrageous or extreme conduct. The FAC’s allegations merely support the notion Defendant may have driven under the influence, and this may not have been his first time.  There are no additional allegations showing any other aggravating factors, and the current allegations do not equate to the kind of outrageous or extreme conduct required to sustain a claim for punitive damages. Therefore, the request to strike punitive damages is GRANTED.  III. Leave to Amend The burden is on Plaintiffs to show in what manner they can amend the complaint, and how that amendment will change the legal effect of the pleading.  (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349; Hendy v. Losse (1991) 54 Cal.3d 723, 742.)  "Where the defect raised by a motion to strike or by demurrer is reasonably capable of cure, leave to amend is routinely and liberally granted to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the defect in question."  (CLD Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.) Plaintiffs merely re-allege the facts already contained in the FAC.  Accordingly, the motion to strike punitive damages is GRANTED without leave to amend at this time. However, should Plaintiffs later determine a cognizable basis for punitive damages, Plaintiffs may file a motion for leave to amend the FAC.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.     PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 14th day of February 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   