  Case Number:  20STCV11003    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  ABILA GARCIA, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  AMBIANCE MEDICAL TRANSPORTATION, INC., ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 20STCV11003  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  February 15, 2024   Plaintiff Abila Garcia (“Plaintiff”) moves to compel production of documents of defendant Ambiance Medical Transportation, Inc.’s (“AMT”) custodian of records/person most knowledgeable (PMK) Ruben Balayan. Plaintiff also seeks monetary sanctions. AMT opposes the motion, and Plaintiff filed a reply.  The Court has read and considered the papers. If a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any document under its control, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order compelling that answer or production.  (CCP § 2025.480(a).) Here, AMT previously agreed to produce the Asset Purchase Agreement (APA) sought by Plaintiff, if it is subject to a protective order, and that the APA be marked for attorney eyes only. The documents requested are subject to discovery, and the Court sees no justification for why the documents have yet to be produced.   Based on the foregoing, the motion to compel production of documents is GRANTED, but subject to the following: The Court orders the parties to meet and confer to draft a stipulated protective order confining the scope of disclosure for attorney eyes only. The protective order should include instructions to destroy the material at the conclusion of the matter.  In terms of sanctions, the court shall impose a monetary sanction against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel an answer or production, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (CCP § 2025.480(j.) Here, the Court finds no substantial justification for failure to produce the documents at issue.   Sanctions are sought and imposed against AMT and its counsel of record. AMT and/or its counsel are ordered to pay sanctions to Plaintiff, by and through counsel of record, in the total amount of $561.65, within twenty (20) days.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 14th day of February 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   