 Case Number:  23STCV03686    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL
Hearing Date: 8/1/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV03686 CANDACE RODNEY
vs CHRISTOPHER J. CURRY, et al. 
Moving Party: Defendant County of Los Angeles
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL IS GRANTED
 
Legal Standard 
¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
Although continuances of trials are
disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own
merits.¿ (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).)¿ The Court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing
of good cause requiring the continuance.¿ (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).) The Court may look to the following factors
in determining whether a trial continuance is warranted: (1) proximity of the
trial date; (2) whether there was any previous continuance of trial due to any
party; (3) the length of the continuance requested; (4) the availability of
alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion; (5) the
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
and (6) whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial.¿ (See generally CRC Rule 3.1332(d)(1)-(11).)¿ Additional factors for the Court to consider include: a party’s
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; whether all parties have stipulated to a
continuance; and any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair
determination of the motion or application.¿ (CRC Rule 3.1332(c), (d).) 
¿ 
Factual Background and Analysis
 
On February 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed the
present automobile accident case. The current trial date is set for August 20,
2024. On June 11, 2024, Defendant filed a motion for summary judgment to be
heard on October 4, 2024. Defendant County of Los Angeles now moves the court
to continue trial for additional time to complete discovery and for additional
time to have its motion for summary judgment to be heard. Plaintiff joined
Defendant in the present motion and no other parties filed an opposition.
 
Considering that this case was filed only
slightly more than one year ago, the parties’ request for a continuance to
conduct further discovery is reasonable. Furthermore, a trial continuance so
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment can be heard constitutes good cause.
Further, no previous continuances have been requested and no parties filed an
opposition alleging prejudice. Thus, the court grants the present motion.
 
Trial Date is set
for Decembe18,
2024, at 8:30 a.m. The Final Status Conference is
continued to December
4, 2024, at 10:00 a.m. All case-related deadlines will
follow the new trial date.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 
 