 Case Number:  23STCV06282    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION AND REQUESTS FOR
SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 5/9/24
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV06282 KALYN CONWAY, et
al. vs KSARA ELAINE TANTAY, et al.
Moving Party: Plaintiffs
Responding Party: Defendants KSARA ELAINE TANTAY
and BILL MASON
Notice: Sufficient
Ruling: MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION AND
REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS ARE
GRANTED.
 
Background
 
On April 17,
2024, Plaintiffs KALYN CONWAY and JASMINE CONWAY served a notice
to depose Defendants KSARA ELAINE TANTAY and BILL MASON (collectively,
"Defendants") on May 17, 2024, at 10:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m. Plaintiffs
sent multiple meet and confer letters to Defendants requesting
Defendants' counsel to propose alternative deposition dates should the May 17 date be
inconvenient for the deponents and their counsel. Defendants did not respond to Plaintiffs’
meet and confer efforts and failed to appear for their depositions on May 17,
2024. Plaintiffs now move to
compel Defendants to attend their depositions. Defendants did not file an opposition.
 
Legal Standard
 
Any party may obtain any discovery
of information, documents, land, property, or electronically stored information
so long as the discoverable matter is not privileged, is relevant to the
subject matter and can lead one to admissible evidence.¿(Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.)
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450¿provides in pertinent part the following:
“(a) If, after service of a
deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing
agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that
is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection
under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it,
or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the
notice may move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance and
testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.
 
(b) A motion under subdivision (a)
shall comply with both of the following:
 
(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice.
 
(2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040¿or, when the deponent fails to
attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored
information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.
 
Where a motion to compel a party’s appearance
and testimony at deposition is granted, the court shall impose a monetary
sanction in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the
deponent, unless the court finds the one subject to sanctions acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)  On motion of a party who, in person or
by attorney, attended at the time and place specified in the deposition notice
in the expectation that the deponent’s testimony would be taken, the court
shall impose a monetary sanction in favor of that party and against the
deponent.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(2).) 
 
Analysis
 
Defendants failed
to serve a written objection and failed to appear for their depositions on the
noticed date. CCP §2025.450(a). Plaintiffs have attempted to meet and confer
with Defendants’ counsel numerous times but to no avail and have therefore fulfilled
the met and confer requirement under CCP §2025.450(b)(2). Thus, all the
requirements to compel Defendants’ deposition have been met and the present
motion is GRANTED. Defendants are ordered to appear for their deposition within
30 days of today.
 
Defendants’
nonappearance forced Plaintiffs to file the present motion and incur attorney’s
fees. Plaintiffs seek sanctions in the amount of $761.65, which the court finds
reasonable. The Court ORDERS Defendants and their counsel, jointly and
severally, to pay sanctions of $760 to Plaintiffs within 20 days of today’s
date.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.