 Case Number:  22STCV17572    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO DEEM RFA
ADMITTED AND REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS 
Hearing Date: 8/1/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV17572 JEREMY GIRONIMI,
et al. vs MOTEL 6, et al. 
Moving Party: Defendant G6 Hospitality 
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION TO DEEM RFA
ADMITTED AND REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS ARE GRANTED. 
 
Background
On March 15, 2024, Defendant G6 served Requests for Admissions (Set
One) on Plaintiffs JEREMY GIRONIMI
AND JOANN GIRONIMI. Plaintiffs’ verified responses were
originally due on April 16, 2024. Plaintiffs subsequently requested and were
granted multiple extensions to
provide the discovery responses, with the final deadline set
for June 17, 2024. To date, Plaintiffs have failed to serve their discovery
responses and Defendant now moves for an order deeming the contents of its Requests for
Admissions, Set One, admitted. No opposition to this motion has been filed.
 
Legal Standard
“Any
party may obtain discovery . . . by a written request that any other party to
the action admit the genuineness of specified documents, or the truth of
specified matters of fact, opinion relating to fact, or application of law to
fact. A request for admission may relate to a matter that is in controversy
between the parties.”¿CCP § 2033.010.¿ “Within 30 days after service of requests for admission, the party
to whom the requests are directed shall serve the original of the response to
them on the requesting party, and a copy of the response on all other parties
who have appeared ....”¿CCP § 2033.250(a).¿ 
¿¿ 
If a
party to whom request for admissions are served fails to provide a timely
response, the party to whom the request was directed waives any objections,
including based on privilege or the work product doctrine. CCP § 2033.280(a).
The requesting party can move for an order that the genuineness of any
documents and the truth of any matters specified in the request be deemed
admitted, as well as for monetary sanctions. CCP § 2033.280(b). The court shall
issue this order unless the party to whom the request was made serves a
response in substantial compliance prior to the hearing on the motion. CCP §
2033.280(c). Unlike a motion to compel further discovery responses, a motion to
deem RFA admitted does not have any meet and confer requirements.
 
Discussion
It is
undisputed that the initial discovery responses at issue were not provided by
the statutory deadline. No opposition or any other documents were filed
indicating that the initial responses were provided prior to the hearing. Thus,
the Court grants the present motions. Defendant’s Requests for Admissions, Set
One are deemed admitted.
 
            Defendant requests sanctions in the amount of
$1517.50. Sanctions are mandatory when a party’s non-response forces the
opposing party to file motions to compel or deem admitted. The Court does not
find Plaintiffs to have acted with substantial justification. Consequently, the
Court grants sanctions in the amount of $1517.50. The
Court orders Plaintiffs and their counsel, jointly and severally, to pay sanctions of $1517.50 to
Defendant within 30 days of today’s date.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.