  Case Number:  20STCV11485    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT 
Hearing Date: 7/26/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 20STCV11485 KELLY
DUANGRUDEESWAT vs LONG BEACH TRANSIT, et al.
Moving Party: Defendants Long Beach Transit
and Rodney Jones
Responding Party: Plaintiff 
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT IS GRANTED 
 
Background
On March 23, 2020,
Plaintiff filed the present action against Defendants Long Beach Transit and
Rodney Jones for general negligence and motor vehicle negligence. Plaintiff
alleges that she was injured by a bus owned and operated by Long Beach Transit
and driven by Rodney Jones while riding on a scooter. On October 7, 2022, in
response to Defendant's Form Interrogatory No. 20.8, Plaintiff stated:
'Plaintiff was traveling in the shared bike and car lane. The bus was at the
bus stop behind her. Plaintiff went to the light and the bus traveled behind
her. The light turned green, Plaintiff went forward, and the bus hit her from
behind. The bus continued after the impact. Plaintiff felt the impact on the
scooter and not her body. Plaintiff’s feet went into the air, and she did a
“flip.” Plaintiff landed on the front portion of her helmeted head and nose.'
(Def’s Ex. at pg. 36) Defendant now moves the Court for summary judgment on the
basis that evidence shows Defendant did not, in fact, make any contact with Plaintiff,
thereby negating the element of causation.
Legal Standard
In reviewing a motion
for summary judgment or adjudication, courts must apply a three-step analysis:
“(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the
moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the
opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual
issue.”¿(Hinesley
v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) 
“[T]he initial burden
is always on the moving party to make a prima facia showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.”¿(Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)¿A
defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or
her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has
shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”¿(Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿If
the moving party fails to carry its burden, the inquiry is over, and the motion
must be denied. (See Id.; see also Consumer Cause, Inc. v. SmileCare
(2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454, 468.)¿Even
if the moving party does carry its burden, the non-moving party will still
defeat the motion by presenting evidence of a triable issue of material fact. (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 849-50.)
To meet this burden of
showing a cause of action cannot be established, a defendant must show not only
“that the plaintiff does not possess needed evidence” but also that “the
plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.”¿(Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿It
is insufficient for the defendant to merely point out the absence of evidence.¿(Gaggero
v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891.)¿The
defendant “must also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot reasonably
obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”¿(Ibid.)¿The
supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions,
depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice
may be taken.¿(Aguilar, supra, 25
Cal.4th at p. 855.) 
“Once the defendant …
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff … to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The plaintiff may not
merely rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable
issue of material fact exists, but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts
showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of
action.”¿(Ibid.)¿“If
the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.”¿(Avivi
v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463,
467.) 
The court must
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve all doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party,” including “all inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.”¿(Yanowitz
v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037; Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at pp. 844-45.) “On a summary judgment motion, the court must
therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder
could reasonably draw from the evidence.¿While
viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its
primary function is to identify issues rather than to determine issues.¿[Citation.]¿Only
when the inferences are indisputable may the court decide the issues as a
matter of law.¿ If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.”¿(Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839.)¿Further,
“the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to
determine whose version is more likely true.¿[Citation.]¿Nor
may the trial court grant summary judgment based on the court’s evaluation of
credibility. [Citation.]” (Id. at p. 840; see also Weiss v. People ex
rel. Department of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts
deciding motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the
evidence but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing
party and draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)
Negligence
               The
elements of negligence are the same whether it is for motor vehicle negligence
or general negligence, and they are: (1) a legal duty owed to the plaintiff to
use due care; (2) breach of duty; (3) causation; and (4) damage to the
plaintiff. (County of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006) 137
Cal.App.4th 292, 318.)
Evidentiary Ruling   
The Court sustains Defendant’s Objections Nos. 39, 40, 44, and 49
on the bases of lack of foundation, speculation and improper expert opinion.
The Parties did not make any other objections to evidence that were material to
the Court’s ruling. (CCP § 437c(q).)
Initial Burden
In meeting its burden,
Defendant introduced video footage of the incident, lodged with the Court,
along with photographs from the video image. Both the video and the photographs
show the bus going straight, not turning toward Plaintiff, with what appears to
be several feet of distance between the bus and Plaintiff. The bus did not
appear to make any contact with Plaintiff that could have caused her to fall.
(Def's Ex. 6 and Ex. 2.)
Rodney Jones, the bus
driver on the date of the incident, confirmed the events shown in the video. He
declared that he noticed Plaintiff was wobbly while driving her scooter around
the curb and decided to pass her in case she fell. “When I saw that the number
one lane was clear and it was safe to proceed, I proceeded to change lanes into
the number one lane to pass Ms. Duangrudeeswat on her left. I estimate I
accelerated to about fifteen miles per hour as I began changing lanes.” (Jones
Decl. ¶ 7-9.) “I was traveling in a straight line as I passed Ms.
Duangrudeeswat, with a clearance of approximately five to ten feet between the
right side of the bus and Ms. Duangrudeeswat. I did not swerve into Ms.
Duangrudeeswat or steer the bus back towards her direction while passing.”
(Jones Decl. ¶ 10.) Jones heard a pop as a result of the bus running over Ms.
Duangrudeeswat’s scooter after she had fallen from it. He did not hear any
other sounds or feel any impacts. (Jones Decl. ¶ 11-13.)
Defendant has met its
initial burden in showing that it did not hit Plaintiff from behind as alleged,
negating the causation element of Plaintiff’s negligence claim. 
Triable Issue of Fact
Plaintiff makes
numerous arguments and introduces evidence regarding how the driver was not
following rules and regulations for safe driving practices. These include
assertions that the bus driver must be careful when driving at dusk, around
inexperienced drivers, and must leave sufficient clearance. Further, Plaintiff
argues that buses should not share substandard width bicycle lanes with
scooters, should not exceed 20 miles per hour when passing a scooter, and
should be conscious about creating wind blasts and startling scooter riders. None
of this evidence and these arguments establish causation.
To raise a triable
issue of fact, Plaintiff needs to set forth specific facts. (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (p)(2).) If Plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be
granted. (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) Evidence that only gives rise to mere speculation is
similarly ineffective to establish a triable issue of fact. (Sangster v.
Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 163.) Nor can the opposing party create
a triable issue by attacking the credibility of the moving party’s evidence.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c.)
The only affirmative
evidence introduced by Plaintiff to show that Defendant caused her to fall on
her scooter consists of two expert declarations. First, Paul Herbert opines
that Plaintiff fell due to a wind blast created by the bus (Herbert Decl. ¶
18). Second, Marc Hammastrom's declaration suggests that it was Defendant’s
unsafe passing maneuver that caused Plaintiff to lose her balance and fall
(Hammarstrom Decl. ¶ 12). 
Plaintiff’s Expert
Declarations
Several issues exist relating
to Plaintiff’s expert declarations, as pointed out by Defendant in its
objections. First, Plaintiff, in response to Form Interrogatory No. 20.8, made
it very clear that the bus hit her from behind, and the bus continued after the
impact. Plaintiff felt the impact on the scooter and not her body. Plaintiff’s
feet went into the air and she did a 'flip.' 
"It is
well-established that “a party cannot create an issue of fact by a declaration
which contradicts his prior discovery responses.” (Shin v. Ahn (2007) 42
Cal.4th 482, 500, fn. 12.) In determining whether any triable issue of material
fact exists, the trial court may give “great weight” to admissions made in
discovery and “disregard contradictory and self-serving affidavits of the
party.” (Preach v. Monter Rainbow (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 1441, 1451.) Our
Supreme Court has explained that such admissions “have a very high credibility
value,” particularly when they are “obtained not in the normal course of human
activities and affairs but in the context of an established pretrial procedure
whose purpose is to elicit facts.” (D'Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners
(1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 22, 112.) Written discovery is given the most weight as it
is made “under direction and supervision of counsel who has full professional
realization of their significance.” (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc.
(2005) 128 CA4th 1510, 1522) “Accordingly, when such an admission becomes
relevant to the determination, on motion for summary judgment, of whether or
not there exist triable issues of fact (as opposed to legal issues) between the
parties, it is entitled to and should receive a kind of deference not normally
accorded evidentiary allegations in affidavits.” (D'Amico v. Board of
Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 22, 112 .) This is known as the sham
declaration doctrine. (Tiffany Builders, LLC v. Delrahim (2023) 97
Cal.App.5th 536.) Plaintiff need to provide a reasonable explanation for the
supposed inconsistency or risk having the declaration prepared in response to a
motion for summary judgment disregarded (Harris v. Thomas Dee Engineering
Co., Inc. (2021) 68 Cal.App.5th 594, 605.)
The sham declaration
doctrine applies in the instant case. Plaintiff’s two expert declarations,
asserting that wind blast or Defendant's unsafe driving caused Plaintiff to
lose balance, contradict Plaintiff’s discovery responses which stated that
Defendant hit her from behind, causing her to fall. Plaintiff, in its
opposition, did not address this discrepancy. Consequently, the Court
disregards the two experts’ conclusions as to the cause of Plaintiff’s fall.
Furthermore, the Court
finds both expert’s opinion relating to the cause of Plaintiff’s fall to be speculative.
 “‘[A] properly qualified expert may offer an opinion relating to a
subject that is beyond common experience, if that expert’s opinion will assist
the trier of fact.’”  (Sanchez v. Kern Emergency Medical Transportation
Corp. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 146, 155 (quoting Bushling v. Fremont Medical
Center (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 493, 510).)  “‘However, even when the
witness qualifies as an expert, he or she does not possess a carte blanche to
express any opinion within the area of expertise.  [Citation.]  For
example, an expert’s opinion based on assumptions of fact without evidentiary
support [citation], or on speculative or conjectural factors [citation], has no
evidentiary value [citation] and may be excluded from evidence.
[Citations.]  Similarly, when an expert’s opinion is purely conclusory
because unaccompanied by a reasoned explanation connecting the factual
predicates to the ultimate conclusion, that opinion has no evidentiary value
because an ‘expert opinion is worth no more than the reasons upon which it
rests.’”  (Id. (quoting Jennings v. Palomar Pomerado Health
Systems, Inc. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 1108, 1117).)  “‘An expert who
gives only a conclusory opinion does not assist the jury to determine
what occurred, but instead supplants the jury by declaring what
occurred.’”  (Id. (quoting Jennings, supra, 114 Cal.App.4th
at 1117-18) (emphasis in original).) 
In reaching the
conclusion that Plaintiff fell due to wind blast or due to intimidation,
Herbert based his opinion on the assumption that the bus driver, traveling at
21 miles per hour and attempting to pass the scooter while sharing the bicycle
lane, caused an adverse aerodynamic effect (wind blast) and/or startled or
intimidated Plaintiff. (Herbert Decl. ¶ 18.) However, Herbert does not
substantiate these claims with facts; he did not point to any evidence that
such a wind blast actually occurred during the incident or that Plaintiff felt
intimidated by the bus’s presence at the time, nor did Plaintiff ever state
that a wind blast or intimidation by the bus caused her to fall. Herbert also
asserts that Mr. Jones should have left additional space, driven more slowly,
and acted with extra care, arguing that Jones’ failure to adhere to industry
standards caused Plaintiff’s injury. (Herbert Decl. ¶9, 10.) The Court finds
this conclusion speculative, as it does not demonstrate how Defendant’s alleged
failure to adhere to industry standards caused Plaintiff to fall, especially
when evidence has shown that the bus did not make contact with Plaintiff. If it
is through windblast or intimidation, Plaintiff produced no evidence, either
through declarations or documents, to substantiate that a wind blast was
actually generated by the bus during the incident or that Plaintiff felt
intimidated by the passing of the bus.  
As for Hammastrom’s
declaration, a similar issue arises; it fails to specify how the driver’s
alleged unsafe driving caused Plaintiff to lose balance. The Court finds that
both experts’ conclusions are speculative and lack foundational support, and
thus will disregard their conclusions regarding causation.
In essence, aside from
the two expert declarations alleging that the Defendant created a windblast
causing Plaintiff to fall, which the court finds peculative and contradictory
to Plaintiff’s prior discovery response, Plaintiff did not provide any other
affirmative evidence that Defendant caused Plaintiff to fall to raise a triable
issue of fact. Thus, summary judgment is granted.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 