 Case Number:  22STCV30916    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
PITCHESS MOTION
Hearing Date: 8/1/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV30916 HORACIO GALVAN
vs CAESAR VALIENTE, et al.
Moving Party: Plaintiff 
Responding Party: County of Los
Angeles and Los Angeles Sheriff’s Department
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: PITCHESS MOTION IS CONTINUED
 
On June 3, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a Pitchess motion seeking discovery of Officer
Valiente's personnel records from the Los Angeles Sheriff's Department. On July
2, 2024, the Court denied the motion without prejudice for failing to attach a
copy of the police record to the motion. On July 3, Plaintiff filed a renewed Pitchess
motion, scheduled to be heard on August 1, 2024.
 
On January 30, 2024,
the Court, pursuant to the Joint Stipulation of All Parties, ordered that the
trial date, originally scheduled for March 20, 2024, be continued to August 26,
2024. All pre-trial deadlines, including those for discovery, motions, and experts,
were also continued to align with the new trial date. On July 22, 2024, the
Court issued a minute order that continued the trial date from August 26, 2024,
to October 18, 2024, due to an emergency court closure. However, the Court did
not specify that all pretrial deadlines are to be continued and follow the new
trial date. Typically, the reopening of fact discovery is accomplished either
through stipulation or via a motion to reopen discovery. The current discovery
cutoff date of July 26, 2024, has already passed.
 
Plaintiff does not
contest that fact discovery is currently closed but argues that Defendant filed
a Motion to Continue Trial and All Trial-Related Dates, including continuing
the discovery cutoff, scheduled to be heard on August 12, 2024. Plaintiff would
be prejudiced if his Pitchess Motion were denied on the grounds that it seeks
discovery after the discovery cutoff, only to have the discovery cutoff
extended by the Court thereafter. The Court agrees and by the same logic, the
present motion would be moot if the Court were to deny Defendant’s motion to
continue the trial and discovery cut off date. Therefore, the Court continues
the present motion to August 12, 2024, to be heard on the same day as
Defendant’s motion to continue trial.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.