 Case Number:  21STCV44967    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  78  Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78 ¿ EDDER RODRIGUEZ, Plaintiff(s), vs. GENERAL MOTORS LLC, et al., Defendant(s). Case No.: 21STCV44967 Hearing Date: October 30, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiff Edder Rodriguez (“Plaintiff”) filed initiated this action against defendant General Motors LLC (“GM”) under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. The Complaint alleges that on October 24, 2011, Plaintiff entered into a warranty contract with GM regarding a 2012 Chevrolet Sonic vehicle identification number 1G1JC6SH3C4109012 (the "Vehicle"), which was manufactured and or distributed by GM. (Compl. ¶ 9.) Defects and nonconformities to warranty manifested themselves within the applicable express warranty period, including but not limited to, the battery; the battery; the engine; among other defects and non-conformities. (Id. ¶ 14.) GM failed to promptly replace or repurchase the Vehicle. (Id. ¶ 19.) The Complaint sets forth four causes of action for (1) violation of Civil Code §1793.2(d), (2) violation of Civil Code §1793.2(b), (3) violation of Civil Code §1793.2(a)(3), and (4) breach of implied warranty of merchantability under Civil Code §§ 1791.1, 1794, and 1795.5. On February 23, 2024, GM filed the instant motion for summary judgment or, alternatively, summary adjudication against all four causes of action in the Complaint. On October 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On October 25, 2024, GM filed a reply.  II. PROCEDURAL STANDARD As a preliminary matter, the Notice states that GM moves for summary adjudication in the alternative. CRC, Rule 3.1350(b) provides, “If made in the alternative, a motion for summary adjudication may make reference to and depend on the same evidence submitted in support of the summary judgment motion. If summary adjudication is sought, whether separately or as an alternative to the motion for summary judgment, the specific cause of action, affirmative defense, claims for damages, or issues of duty must be stated specifically in the notice of motion and be repeated, verbatim, in the separate statement of undisputed material facts.” Further, subdivision (h) of Rule 3.1350 provides a sample chart of the proper format for separate statements in a motion for summary adjudication. Because GM’s separate statement fails to conform with CRC, Rule 3.1350, and the memorandum of points and authorities itself treats the motion solely as a motion for summary judgment, the Court will consider it as such. In other words, if there remains at least a single triable issue of material fact, the entire motion must fail.  III. LEGAL STANDARD A party may move for summary judgment “if it is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (a).) “[I]f all the evidence submitted, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law,” the moving party will be entitled to summary judgment. (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) A motion for summary adjudication may be made by itself or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (f)(2).) The moving party bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact, and if the party does so, the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850; accord Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant...has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff...to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Med. Ctr. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) “When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi, supra, 159 Cal.App.4th at p. 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(c).)  IV. DISCUSSION GM argues that since all four of Plaintiff’s causes of action require proof that Plaintiff is a “buyer” as defined by the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act (“SBA”), and because Plaintiff has no evidence that Plaintiff therefore lacks standing. GM asserts lack of standing on three noticed grounds: (1) no evidence that Plaintiff bought the Vehicle, (2) no evidence that Plaintiff paid for the Vehicle, and (3) no evidence that the Vehicle was worth less due to any alleged defect. The SBA should generally be construed in a manner that will bring its benefits into action (Murillo v. Fleetwood Enterprises, Inc. (1998) 17 Cal.4th 985, 990). The civil remedies section of the SBA (Civ. Code § 1794) grants standing and a cause of action to “any buyer of consumer goods who is damaged by a failure to comply with any obligation under this chapter or under an implied or express warranty or service contract…”¿ (Civ. Code, § 1794(a).)¿ Civ. Code, section 1791(b) defines a buyer as “any individual who buys consumer goods from a person engaged in the business of manufacturing, distributing, or selling consumer goods at retail.” (Civ. Code § 1791(b).) The plain language of Civ. Code, section 1791 et seq., does not limit the definition of a “buyer” to a retail contract. Rather, the plain language of section 1791 provides for a broad construction of a “buyer” or “retail buyer” in connection to a retail purchase of a consumer good from a retail seller. GM argues Plaintiff is not a “buyer” because he testified at his deposition that he is not in possession of any documents that demonstrate the Vehicle was registered to him, or that he had title for the Vehicle. GM also argues Plaintiff has not shown he was “damaged” because Plaintiff has not provided any proof that he paid for the Vehicle other than his belief that he paid for it, and that Plaintiff has no documents of the private sale in which he testified he received $500 in cash. In support thereof, GM provides Plaintiff’s deposition, Plaintiff’s discovery responses, Vehicle Delivery Information and Summary, and a copy of the 2012 Chevrolet Limited Warranty and Owner Assistance Information Booklet. To prevail on a motion for summary judgment, there must be no issue requiring a trial as to any fact that is necessary under the pleadings, such that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal. 4th at 843.) The Court finds that GM has not met its prima facie burden that no triable issues of material fact exist. Plaintiff’s testimony regarding the purchase, financing, and sale of the Vehicle is not so “factually devoid” of responses from which an absence of evidence, either directly or circumstantially, may be reasonably inferred. (Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Construction Co. (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 64, 83.) In arguendo, even if GM had met its prima facie burden of production, there exists at least a triable issue of material fact to preclude granting the motion for summary judgment. Plaintiff, in opposition, argues he testified that he purchased the Vehicle on October 24, 2011 from GM’s authorized retail dealership Jessup Chevrolet (Jessup Auto Plaza) located at 6811 Highway 111, Cathedral City, CA 92234. To finance the purchase, Plaintiff took out a loan on October 24, 2011, through USAA Federal Savings Bank in the amount of $11,000.00, with a finance charge of $2,470.82, totaling $13,470.82 in payments. The Security Agreement provides that the loan amount would be paid directly to Jessup Auto Plaza, and the purpose of the Security Agreement was to purchase the Vehicle. Further, the Release of Lien Document verifies that the Vehicle was used as collateral for the loan. Plaintiff avers that in May 2016, he purchased an extended warranty for the Vehicle called the HM Protection Plan, which extended the warranty coverage to May 2, 2019 or 102,467 miles, whichever came first. Additionally, Plaintiff asserts that GM relies on non-binding and unpublished federal cases regarding damages, and that Plaintiff is qualified to provide evidence of his own testimony regarding damages. Drawing all reasonable inferences in the light most favorable to opposing party, the Court finds that Plaintiff has demonstrated a triable issue of material fact. Plaintiff testified he paid $20,000-$21,000 for the Vehicle. (Kay Decl. ¶4; Exh. A - Plf. Depo. 23:5-9; 28:19-24.) The Security Agreement (Rodriguez Decl. ¶ 4; Exh. 1) evinces that Plaintiff obtained a loan in the amount of $11,000 to purchase the Vehicle as described in the Complaint, and that $11,000 was paid to Jessup Auto Plaza. The “Release of Lien” for the collateral lists Plaintiff as the registered owner of the Vehicle. (Rodriguez Decl. ¶ 14; Exh. 3) Additionally, the Vehicle Delivery Report provides that the Vehicle was delivered to “EF Rodriguez” on October 25, 2011. (Law Decl. ¶ 5; Exh. 3.) Thus, although there is no evidence of a Purchase Agreement or vehicle title registration in Plaintiff’s name, the combination of Plaintiff’s deposition testimony, the Security Agreement, and delivery report provides a measure of evidence that he had purchased the Vehicle. (D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21 [On a motion for summary judgment, the moving party's supporting documents are strictly construed and those of his opponent liberally construed, and doubts as to the propriety of summary judgment should be resolved against granting the motion.].) Any ambiguity concerning the reliability of Plaintiff’s testimony concerning the full purchase price and the Vehicle’s diminished worth is for the fact finder to determine. Plaintiff’s reliance on non-analogous and primarily federal cases such as Khachatryan v. Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A. Inc., 2009 WL 9537648 [Party moved pursuant to Federal Rules of Civil Procedure Rule 50(b) – judgment as a matter of law in a jury trial], Von Grabe v. Sprint PCS (2003) 312 F. Supp. 2d 1285 [Plaintiff’s alleged claim based on failure to disclose certain material information in a service contract under the SBA was not pled with sufficient specificity in the amended complaint], Weinberg v. Whatcom Cnty. (2001) 241 F.3d 746 [plaintiff in land-use litigation failed to offer evidence establishing amount of damage suffered as a result of tort action for negligence against the county arising from county issuing stop work order, revoking permits, and vacating short plats], Piscitelli v. Friedenberg (2001) 87 Cal. App. 4th 953 [pertaining to damages for loss of profits/prospective profits, wherein reasonably reliable evidence must make reasonably certain their nature, occurrence, and extent; appellate court found that claim for lost commissions not entirely speculative as a matter of law based on damages expert’s testimony], et al., are unavailing. Lastly, GM’s brief and undeveloped contention that it was not a party to any sales or lease transaction with Plaintiff is irrelevant. Due to the concern for the ultimate consumer, the SBA does not require privity of contract. The general rule is that privity of contract is required in an action for breach of either express or implied warranty and that there is no privity between the original seller and a subsequent purchaser who is in no way a party to the original sale. (See Lewis v. Terry (1896) 111 Cal. 39, 44.) However, a claim for violation of the SBA arises by virtue of a retail buyer’s purchase of a vehicle from a retail seller, and not necessarily the contractual relationship between a plaintiff (buyer) and a defendant (seller). Otherwise, the SBA would require buyers to have privity of contract under the initial sale contract from which the SBA’s warranties arose.  V. CONCLUSION Accordingly, GM’s Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.  Moving Party is ordered to give notice.  DATED: October 29, 2024 __________________________ Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: • Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. • If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. • Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. • If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 