  Case Number:  24STCV18650    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


January 15, 2025




CASE NUMBER


24STCV18650




MOTIONS


Motion for Preliminary Injunction




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiffs Zachary Kazarian, Kyle Kazarian, and Jake Jessa




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendants Simply
  Good Foods, Inc. and Quest Nutrition LLC




 
MOTION
Plaintiffs Zachary
Kazarian, Kyle Kazarian, and Jake Jessa (“Plaintiffs”) allege Defendants Simply
Good Foods, Inc. (“Simply Good”) and Quest Nutrition LLC (“Quest”)(collectively,
“Defendants”) required Plaintiffs to sign post-employment invention assignment
agreements, which are unenforceable. 
Plaintiffs move for a preliminary injunction to preclude Defendants from
enforcing those agreements.[1]  Defendants oppose the motion.
ANALYSIS
Plaintiffs and Defendants rely extensively on
several trial court orders.  “Neither
federal district court procedures nor decisions are binding on this court.” (Thomas
G. Ferruzzo, Inc. v. Superior Court (1980) 104 Cal.App.3d 501, 503.)  Likewise, “a written trial court ruling has
no precedential value . . . .” (Santa Ana Hospital Medical Center v. Belshe
(1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 819, 831.)  Nor
does the Court need not consider those matters for any instructive and persuasive
value they may have.  It, therefore, disregards
them.  
A preliminary
injunction has “the effect of merely maintaining the status quo until the cases
are decided on their merits.”  (People
v. Black's Food Store (1940) 16 Cal.2d 59, 62.)  ‘“To obtain a preliminary injunction, a plaintiff
ordinarily is required to present evidence of the irreparable injury or interim
harm that it will suffer if an injunction is not issued pending an adjudication
of the merits.’ . . .  ¶  If the threshold requirement of irreparable
injury is established, then we must examine two interrelated factors to
determine whether the trial court's decision to issue a preliminary injunction
should be upheld: ‘(1) the likelihood that the moving party will ultimately
prevail on the merits and (2) the relative interim harm to the parties from
issuance or nonissuance of the injunction.’” 
(Costa Mesa City Employees' Association v. City of Costa Mesa
(2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 298, 305-306, internal quotations and citations
omitted.)  
Pursuant to Business
and Professions Code section 16600, “every contract by which anyone is
restrained from engaging in a lawful profession, trade, or business of any kind
is to that extent void.”  An employee or former
employee may bring a civil action for injunctive relief and damages to enforce Business
and Professions Code section 16600. (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 16600.5, subd. (e)(1).)
In the instant
case, Plaintiffs, as employees of Simply Good, signed a “Confidentiality and
Proprietary Rights Agreement” (Agreement) which provides, in pertinent part, “Assignment
of Company Inventions. Employee hereby assigns, and agrees to assign, to the
Company, all Employee’s rights, title and interest in and to all Company
Inventions. Also Employee hereby assigns, and agrees to assign, to the Company
all Inventions conceived or reduced to practice by Employee within one year
following [his/her] termination of employment with the Company (whether
voluntary or otherwise), if the Invention is a result of Company information
obtained by Employee during [his/her] employment with the Company or otherwise
meets any of the criteria i through iii set forth in section 1.3(b).”   (See,
e.g., Declaration of Kyle Kazarian, Exhibit A, section 1.3(c).)  
In section 1.3(b)
of the Agreement, “Company Inventions” are defined as “any Invention that meets
any one of the following criteria: i.  Relates, at the time of conception or
reduction to practice of the Invention to (x) the Company’s business, projects
or products, or to the manufacture of utilization thereof;  or (y) the actual or demonstrably anticipated
research or development of the Company.  ii.
Results from any work performed directly or indirectly by Employee for the
Company. iii. Results, at least in part, from Employee’s use of the Company’s
time, equipment, supplies, facilities or trade secret information.”  (Kazarian Decl., Exhibit A, section 1.3(b).)  The Agreement goes further to point out a Company
Invention does not include excludes “any Invention which qualifies fully under
the provisions of the California Labor Code Section 2870 . . . , including any
idea or invention which is developed entirely on Employee’s own time without
using the Company’s equipment, supplies, facilities or trade secret
information, and which is not related to the Company’s  business (either actual or demonstrably
anticipated), and which does not result from work performed for the Company.”  (Ibid.) 

As constructed,
the Agreement restrains Plaintiffs from engaging in their professions because
Plaintiffs are precluded from developing any business, projects, or products that
relate to the business of Simply Good. 
To the extent it restrains Plaintiffs from working in the same industry
as Simply Good, the Agreement is invalid. 
As such, Plaintiffs have demonstrated a likelihood of prevailing on the
merits.  Further, as the Agreement
interferes with Plaintiffs’ ability to work in their professions, Plaintiffs
have demonstrated harm is likely if the Court does not grant their requested
preliminary injunction.  
In opposition,
Defendants argue “Confidential Information” referenced in the Agreement “is
limited to non-public, confidential information.”  (Opposition to Movants’ Motion for
Preliminary Injunction, p. 10.)  By its
terms, however, the Agreement precludes Plaintiffs from developing any
business, projects, or products that relate to Simply Good’s business.  Likewise, Defendants’ argument the Court
should strike from section 1.3(c) the language “is a result of Company
information obtained by Employee during [his/her] employment with the Company
or otherwise” is unavailing.  Even if the
Court were to strike this language, the Agreement would still preclude
Plaintiffs from developing any business, projects, or products that relate to Simply
Good’s business.  Accordingly, the Court
must enjoin at this juncture enforcement of the Agreement in its entirety.
Defendants could
have restrained Plaintiffs from using trade secret information.  However, Defendants did not enter into an
agreement with Plaintiffs to that effect. 
In any event, the fact Defendants could have done so is irrelevant. The
Court cannot completely rewrite the Agreement between the parties.
As the Court
grants the preliminary injunction, absent exceptions which do not apply to the
facts of this case, Plaintiffs must post an undertaking, the amount of which must
cover any damages Defendants may sustain by reason of the injunction. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 529, subds. (a), (b); Stevenson v. City of Sacramento (2020) 55
Cal.App.5th 545, 551-552.)  While
Defendants request an undertaking, they have not advanced any evidence on the
amount of the bond they seek. 
Accordingly, the Court continues the matter for further briefing.
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Plaintiffs’ motion
for a preliminary injunction is granted. 
The Court sets an order to show cause regarding an appropriate amount of
the undertaking for March 6, 2025.  Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 1005, subdivision (b), Defendants are to
file an opening brief; Plaintiffs may file an opposition; and Defendants may file
a reply.  If the parties stipulate to the
amount of the undertaking, the Court will take the matter off calendar.
Plaintiffs are
ordered to provide notice of this order and to file proof of service of same. 
 


