 Case Number:  22STCV19350    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  29 TENTATIVE    The Court SUSTAINS Defendant’s  demurrer to the first and second causes of action in the complaint with 30 days  leave to amend. The Court will allow Plaintiff an opportunity to amend the  complaint to state a valid cause of action.    Meet and Confer   The Court finds that the meet and  confer requirement has been met pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41.     Judicial Notice   The Court GRANTS Defendant’s  request for judicial notice.    Legal  Standard  A demurrer tests the sufficiency  of a complaint as a matter of law.”  (Durell  v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.) “[T]he court gives  the complaint a reasonable interpretation, and treats the demurrer as admitting  all material facts properly pleaded.”  (Ibid.)  In testing the sufficiency of the complaint,  the court must assume the truth of (1) the properly pleaded factual  allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably inferred from those expressly  pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39  Cal.3d 311, 318.) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or  other extrinsic matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.  App. 3d 902, 905.) Accordingly, “[w]hether the plaintiff will be able to prove  the pleaded facts is irrelevant to ruling upon the demurrer.” (Stevens v.  Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 605, 609-10.)  A general demurrer may be taken  to a complaint where “[t]he pleading does not state facts sufficient to  constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10(e).) Although Courts  construe pleadings liberally, sufficient facts must be alleged to support the  allegations plead to survive a demurrer. (Rakestraw v. California  Physicians' Serv. (2000) 81 Cal. App. 4th 39, 43.) “Because a demurrer  tests the legal sufficiency of a complaint, the plaintiff must show the  complaint alleges facts sufficient to establish every element of each cause of  action. If the complaint fails to plead, or if the defendant negates, any  essential element of a particular cause of action, this court should affirm the  sustaining of a demurrer.” (Ibid.)  Where a demurrer is sustained,  leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of  successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)  The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be amended  successfully. (Ibid.) However, “[i]f there is any reasonable possibility  that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it is error to sustain a  demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist.  (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).         Discussion                 Defendant  contends that: (1) Plaintiff lacks sufficient facts to support his causes of  action for negligence and premises liability; and (2) the statute of  limitations time bars Plaintiff’s claims for negligence and premises liability.     Issue No. 1: Lack of Sufficient  Facts to Support the First and Second Causes of Action   To succeed in a negligence  action, the plaintiff must show the following: (1) the defendant owed the  plaintiff a legal duty; (2) the defendant breached the duty; and (3) the breach  proximately or legally caused the plaintiff’s damages or injuries. (Thomas  v. Stenberg (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 654, 662.) The elements of a cause of  action for premises liability are the same as those for negligence. (Jones  v. Awad (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 1200, 1207.)    Here, the complaint is set forth  on a judicial council PLD-PI-001 form; however, the complaint sets forth no  facts at all.  Paragraph 10 of the  complaint states that the general negligence and premises liability causes of  action are attached thereto but such attachments are not present. In its  current iteration, the complaint does not allege duty, breach, or proximate and  legal causation.    Thus, the first and second causes  of action fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.    Issue No.2: Statute of  Limitations   Defendant contends that the first  and second causes of action fail because they are both time barred by the  statute of limitations. In support of this contention, Defendant asserts that  Plaintiff previously filed a complaint against Defendant, which was dismissed  for failure to prosecute the action. (Defendant’s RJN at Exhibits 1 and 2.)    Code Civ. Proc. § 335.1 provides  for a two-year statute of limitations for an action for assault, battery, or  injury to, or for the death of, an individual caused by the wrongful act or  neglect of another.    Here, the Court finds that  Defendant is improperly relying on a declaration of its counsel to support its  argument that the causes of action in the complaint are barred by the statute  of limitations. Defendant contends that “Plaintiff, who is in pro per, admitted  that the date of the injury for the case was November 23, 2016 and that the  Prior Complaint was based on the same incident as the current Complaint.”  (Demurrer at 5:1-4; Fisher Decl., ¶ 4 and Exhibit A.) The Court cannot consider  any evidence or extrinsic matters in ruling on Defendant’s demurrer. Moreover,  the current complaint contains no factual allegations making it impossible to  ascertain whether the instant action arises from the same facts as the prior  case that Plaintiff brought against Defendant or an entirely different incident.     Thus, on demurrer, and  considering only the allegations in the complaint and judicially noticeable  facts, the Court is unable to determine whether the instant action is or is not  barred by the statute of limitations.   The Court does not sustain the demurrer on the grounds of the statute of  limitations. Instead, the Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer based on the  complaint’s failure to state a cause of action.      Conclusion    3The Court SUSTAINS Defendant’s  demurrer to the first and second causes of action in the complaint with 30 days  leave to amend. The Court will allow Plaintiff an opportunity to amend the  complaint to state a valid cause of action.    Moving party is ordered to give  notice.     