 Case Number:  21STCV20658    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  29 TENTATIVE
 
The Court GRANTS
Defendant’s Motion to Deem Requests for Admissions, Set One, admitted.  The requests for sanctions are
GRANTED.  Plaintiff is ordered to pay
monetary sanctions in the reduced total amount of $810.00 within 30 days of
this order.
 
Legal Standard
 
If a party to whom requests for admission are directed fails to serve a
timely response, the propounding party may move for an order that the
genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
requests be deemed admitted. (Code Civ. Pro. § 2033.280.) The court is required
to make this order unless the responding party serves a response in substantial
compliance with section 2033.220 before the hearing on the motion. (Code Civ.
Pro. § 2033.280(c).) By failing to timely respond, the party to whom the
requests are directed waives any objection to the requests, including one based
on privilege or work product. (Code Civ. Pro. § 2033.280(a).)   
 
It is mandatory that a court impose monetary sanctions on the party or
attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to requests for
admission necessitated this motion.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd.
(c).)  Sanctions may be imposed under the Discovery Act even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.  (Cal. Rules of Ct. rule 3.1348, subd. (a).)         
 
Discussion
 
Defendant argues
Plaintiff did not respond to Defendant’s demands served on January 9, 2023, by
mail.  Defendant also argues that on
March 13, 2023, he mailed a letter to Plaintiff to resolve the discovery
dispute, but Plaintiff did not respond. 
To date, Plaintiff has not responded.
 
There is no evidence before the Court that would indicate Plaintiff
responded to these discovery requests. 
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff failed to timely respond to
Defendant’s Requests For Admission, Set One. 
 
The motion is granted. Since Defendant has demonstrated that
Plaintiff failed to respond to the Requests for Admission by the deadline, the
Court deems the truth of the statements in the Requests for Admission, Set One
admitted.  Because the motion is granted,
Defendant’s request for sanctions is also granted, but in a reduced amount due
to the simplicity of the motion. 
Therefore, Plaintiff Amal Gabriel is ordered to pay monetary sanctions in the reduced total amount of
$810.00 ($225 per hour, for 3 hours, plus $60 filing fee for each motion) to be
paid within 30 days of this order.  
 
Conclusion
 
Accordingly,
the Court GRANTS Defendant’s Motion to Deem Requests for Admissions, Set One,
admitted.  The requests for sanctions are
GRANTED.  Plaintiff is ordered to pay
monetary sanctions in the reduced total amount of $810.00 within 30 days of
this order. 
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice.
 
 