 Case Number:  24STCV26592    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  45 Mariam Moore,
et al. v. Penalver, LLC, et
al.
 
Motion to Strike
 
Date of Hearing:         January
21, 2025                     Trial Date:       None Set
Department:                45                                            Case
No.:        24STCV26592            
 
Moving Party:             Defendants
Penalver, LLC; and Pena Grading and Demolition, Inc.
Responding Party:      Plaintiffs Mariam Moore; Ara Hakhverdian;
and Maria Jacquez      

 

 
BACKGROUND
 
Factual and Procedural
Background
            On October 11, 2024, Mariam Moore,
Ara Hakhverdian, and Maria Jacquez (Plaintiffs) filed a Complaint against
Penalver, LLC, and Pena Grading and Demolition, Inc. (Defendants), alleging
five causes of action related to Defendants’ recycling business.  Plaintiffs allege Defendants’ business
operations pollute the neighboring community where Plaintiffs reside. (Compl.,
¶16.) Plaintiffs allege rocks, stones, dirt, dust, and particulate matter were
released from the site of Defendants business operations onto Plaintiffs’
properties. (Id.) Plaintiffs requested Defendants abate their
operations. When Defendants did not, Plaintiffs filed suit.
Defendants
now move to strike plaintiffs’ prayer for attorney fees and injunctive
relief.  
 
Meet and
Confer
“Before filing a motion to strike…the moving
party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed
the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike for the purpose of
determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the motion to strike.” (Code Civ. Proc. §435.5.) 
Defendants provide the Declaration of William
D. Koehler (Koehler Decl.) which states Defense counsel sent a meet and confer
letter via email on November 11, 2024 with a response deadline of close of
business on November 18, 2024. (Koehler Decl., ¶3.) On November 18, 2024,
Plaintiff’s counsel responded, asking to set up a call. (Id. at ¶4.)
However, Defense counsel states the response to the Complaint was due on
November 22, 2024, and therefore filed the Motion. As such, the requirements
for Code Civ. Proc. §435.5 remain unsatisfied, however, per Code Civ.
Proc. §435.5(a)(4), “A determination by the court that the meet and confer
process was insufficient shall not be grounds to grant or deny the motion to
strike.” Therefore, the Court turns its attention to the Motion.
   
[Tentative] Ruling
            Defendant’s Motion to Strike is GRANTED.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
The court may,
upon motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper,
strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436, subd. (a).) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Code Civ. Proc. §436, subd.
(b).) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading
or by way of judicial notice. (Code
Civ. Proc. §437.)
 
ANALYSIS
            In their moving papers,
Defendants seek to strike two forms of relief requested in the Prayer of the
Complaint: (a) the request for attorney’s fees and (b) the request for  injunctive relief. For the reasons below, the
Motion is denied. 
A.    Attorneys’ Fees
            Under the “American
Rule”, each party to a lawsuit must ordinarily pay for their own attorney fees.
(Riverside Mining Limited v. Quality Aggregates (2024) 104 Cal.App.5th
269, 275.) A litigant may only recover costs from the opposing party when
grounded in contract or statute. (Id. Also see Code Civ. Proc. §§1717
and 1021.)
            Here, Plaintiffs have
requested attorneys’ fees without stating a statutory basis.  Nonetheless, plaintiffs correctly point out
that they may be entitled to fees under Section 1021.5 if this action
ultimately results in “the enforcement of an important right affecting the
public interest” by conferring a significant benefit “on the general public or
a large class of persons,” and “the necessity and financial burden of private enforcement,
or of enforcement by one public entity against another public entity, are such
as to make the award appropriate.”  Having
given notice that it intends to seek attorney fees if available and advising
defendant of their intent to seek fees under Section 1021, the motion to strike
attorney fees is denied.  
            Plaintiffs have also
established that they may be entitled to an injunction pursuant to C.C.P.
Section §731(a) if they
establish that defendants employed “unnecessary and injurious methods of
operation.”  The court agrees that
plaintiffs have adequately alleged that defendant is using unnecessary and
injuries methods of operation.  
 
CONCLUSION
Accordingly, Defendant’s
Motion to Strike is DENIED. 