 Case Number:  22STCV23778    Hearing Date:   December 31, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows.  
BACKGROUND  
A.   Prior proceedings 
On July 22, 2022, Plaintiffs Emmanuel Arellano and
Yadira Arellano filed this action against Defendants Southern California Edison,
Edison International, and Does 1-20 for negligence and loss of consortium.  The Court set the trial for January 19, 2024. 
On September 27, 2022, Plaintiffs filed a first
amended complaint against the same defendants asserting the same claims. 
On November 22, 2022, Defendant Southern California
Edison Company (erroneously sued as Southern California Edison) (“Edison”) and
Edison International filed answers.  The
same day, Edison filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Roes 1-10 for
total equitable indemnity, contribution, apportionment of fault, and
declaratory relief. 
On August 28, 2023, based on the parties’ stipulation,
the Court continued the trial from January 19, 2024 to August 23, 2024, with discovery
and motion cut-off dates to be based on the new trial date. 
On March 22, 2024, the Court dismissed Defendant
Edison International with prejudice based on the parties’ stipulation. 
On May 28, 2024, based on the parties’ stipulation, the
Court continued the trial from August 23, 2024 to October 25, 2024, with
discovery and motion cut-off dates to be based on the new trial date. 
On August 29, 2024, the Court granted in part Edison’s
ex parte application and continued the trial from October 25, 2024 to January
14, 2025.  The Court did not continue or
reopen discovery or motion cut-off dates. 
On November 14, 2024, Edison filed a form requesting
transfer of the case to an independent calendar court. 
On November 19, 2024, the Court granted in part
Edison’s ex parte application and continued the trial from January 14, 2025 to
February 13, 2025, with expert discovery to be based on the new trial
date.  
Trial is currently scheduled for February 13, 2025. 
B.   This motion 
On November 18, 2024, Edison filed a motion to continue
the trial and to transfer the case to an independent calendar court.  (Edison should have filed a separate motion
for each issue.)  The motion was set for
hearing on December 31, 2024.  On
November 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to Edison’s motion to transfer
the case to an independent calendar court.  On December 17, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an
opposition to Edison’s motion to continue the trial.  On December 23, 2024, Edison
filed a reply. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
A.   Motion to continue trial 
          Edison
asks the Court to continue the trial for 7-8 months and continue expert
discovery. 
          Plaintiffs
asks the Court to grant a shorter continuance than the one Edison requests. 
B.   Motion to transfer case to IC court 
Edison
asks the Court to transfer the case to an independent calendar court. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
I.              
EDISON’S MOTION
TO CONTINUE TRIAL AND RELATED DATES 
A.   Legal standard 
1.    Trial continuance 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 provides: 
“(a) Trial dates are firm 
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases, the
dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their counsel must regard
the date set for trial as certain. 
“(b) Motion or application 
“A party seeking a continuance of the date set for
trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the parties, must
make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte
application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with supporting
declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon as
reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered. 
“(c) Grounds for continuance 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include: 
“(1)  The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances; 
“(2)  The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
“(3)  The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
“(4)  The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice; 
“(5)  The
addition of a new party if: 
“(A)  The new
party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for
trial; or 
“(B)  The other
parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare
for trial in regard to the new party's involvement in the case; 
“(6)  A party's
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; or 
“(7)  A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial. 
“(d) Other factors to be considered 
“In ruling on a motion or application for continuance,
the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to
the determination. These may include: 
“(1)  The
proximity of the trial date; 
“(2)  Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party; 
“(3)  The length
of the continuance requested; 
“(4)  The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 
“(5)  The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; 
“(6)  If the
case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status
and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
“(7)  The
court's calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending
trials; 
“(8)  Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; 
“(9)  Whether
all parties have stipulated to a continuance; 
“(10)  Whether
the interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and 
“(11)  Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332.) 
2.    Continuance or reopening of discovery and related
deadlines 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.020, subdivision (b) provides: 
“Except as provided in Section 2024.050, a continuance or
postponement of the trial date does not operate to reopen discovery
proceedings.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020, subd. (b).) 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050
provides: 
“(a) On
motion of any party, the court may grant leave to complete discovery
proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard, closer to the
initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date has been set.
This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040. 
“(b) In
exercising its discretion to grant or deny this motion, the court shall take
into consideration any matter relevant to the leave requested, including, but
not limited to, the following: 
“(1) The
necessity and the reasons for the discovery. 
“(2) The
diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the
hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not
completed or that the discovery motion was not heard earlier. 
“(3) Any
likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the discovery motion will
prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere
with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any other party. 
“(4) The
length of time that has elapsed between any date previously set, and the date
presently set, for the trial of the action. 
“(c) The
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to extend or to reopen discovery, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2024.050.) 
B.   Discussion 
Edison
asks the Court to continue the trial and expert discovery for seven to eight
months.  Edison blames Plaintiffs for causing
delays in deposing experts and cites Plaintiffs’ pending motion for leave to
file a second amended complaint.  Plaintiffs do not oppose a shorter continuance. 
The
Court has considered the factors listed in California Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(c), and Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050, subdivision (b), and finds
that Edison has established good cause to continue the trial to March 17, 2025
or the next available date on the Court’s calendar.  The final status conference and expert
discovery will be based on the new trial date.  
II.           
EDISON’S MOTION
TO TRANSFER CASE TO INDEPENDENT CALENDAR COURT 
Edison
argues that this is a complex personal injury case which requires additional
judicial case management.  According to
Edison, trial will include at least 15 fact witnesses, 24 designated experts,
and more than 55 non-retained expert witnesses. 
Edison estimates the trial will last 15-20 days. 
Plaintiffs
oppose the motion, arguing that the Personal Injury Hub court should continue to
handle pre-trial matters.  Plaintiffs
argue that transferring the case to an independent calendar court will further delay
the trial. 
The Court
denies Edison’s motion to transfer the case to an independent calendar court
prior to trial.  When the case is ready
for trial, the Court will refer the case to Department 1, which will place the
case in an independent calendar courtroom for trial. 
CONCLUSION  The Court GRANTS in part Defendant Southern California
Edison Company’s motion to continue the trial and related dates.  The Court continues the trial to March 17,
2025 or the next available date on the Court’s calendar.  The final status conference and expert
discovery will be based on the new trial date.  In all other
respects, the Court DENIES Defendant Southern California Edison Company’s
motion to continue the trial. 
The
Court DENIES Defendant Southern California Edison Company’s motion to transfer
the case to an independent calendar courtroom. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file proof of service of this ruling with the Court within
five days.