 Case Number:  22STCV26274    Hearing Date:   December 31, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows.  
BACKGROUND  
On August 12, 2022, Plaintiff John A.M. Doe
(“Plaintiff”), by and through his guardian ad litem Grigor Margaryan, filed
this action against the Los Angeles Unified School District (“District”), the
County of Los Angeles ("County"), and Does 1-20 for negligence, negligent supervision, and
dangerous condition of public property. 
On April 13, 2023, the Court appointed Grigor
Margaryan to serve as Plaintiff’s guardian ad litem. 
On October 23, 2023, Plaintiff filed a first amended
complaint against the District, the County, and Does 1-20 for negligence,
negligent supervision, and dangerous condition of public property. 
On January 16, 2024, the District filed an answer to
the first amended complaint. 
On November 14, 2024, the District filed a motion to
continue the trial and all trial-related dates. 
The motion was set for hearing on December 31, 2024.  No opposition has been filed. 
Trial is currently scheduled for February 10, 2025. 
PARTY’S REQUESTS 
          The
District asks the Court to continue the trial to September 10, 2025 and to
continue all trial-related dates. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Motion to continue trial 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 provides: 
“(a) Trial dates are firm 
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases, the
dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their counsel must regard
the date set for trial as certain. 
“(b) Motion or application 
“A party seeking a continuance of the date set for
trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the parties, must
make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte
application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with supporting
declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon as
reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered. 
“(c) Grounds for continuance 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include: 
“(1)  The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances; 
“(2)  The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
“(3)  The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
“(4)  The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice; 
“(5)  The
addition of a new party if: 
“(A)  The new
party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for
trial; or 
“(B)  The other
parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare
for trial in regard to the new party's involvement in the case; 
“(6)  A party's
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; or 
“(7)  A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial. 
“(d) Other factors to be considered 
“In ruling on a motion or application for continuance,
the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to
the determination. These may include: 
“(1)  The
proximity of the trial date; 
“(2)  Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party; 
“(3)  The length
of the continuance requested; 
“(4)  The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 
“(5)  The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; 
“(6)  If the
case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status
and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
“(7)  The
court's calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending
trials; 
“(8)  Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; 
“(9)  Whether
all parties have stipulated to a continuance; 
“(10)  Whether
the interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and 
“(11)  Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332.) 
B.   Motion to continue or reopen discovery 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.020, subdivision
(b) provides: 
“Except as provided in Section 2024.050, a continuance or
postponement of the trial date does not operate to reopen discovery
proceedings.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020, subd. (b).) 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050
provides: 
“(a) On
motion of any party, the court may grant leave to complete discovery
proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard, closer to the
initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date has been set.
This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040. 
“(b) In
exercising its discretion to grant or deny this motion, the court shall take
into consideration any matter relevant to the leave requested, including, but
not limited to, the following: 
“(1) The
necessity and the reasons for the discovery. 
“(2) The
diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the
hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not
completed or that the discovery motion was not heard earlier. 
“(3) Any
likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the discovery motion will
prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere
with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any other party. 
“(4) The
length of time that has elapsed between any date previously set, and the date
presently set, for the trial of the action. 
“(c) The
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to extend or to reopen discovery, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2024.050.) 
DISCUSSION 
The District
asks the Court to continue the trial to September 10, 2025 and to base all
pre-trial related dates and deadlines on the new trial date.  The District argues that a continuance is
appropriate because Plaintiff has delayed in serving discovery responses, has not
provided available dates for depositions, and has objected to the depositions
of Plaintiff and his guardian ad litem on the ground that the District set them
unilaterally.  In addition, the District
plans to seek an independent medical examination of Plaintiff and the District’s
counsel has scheduling conflicts. 
The
Court finds good cause and continues the trial to March 12, 2025 or the next
available date.  The final status
conference, discovery, and related dates and deadlines will be based on the new
trial date. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS in part Defendant Los Angeles Unified
School District’s motion to continue the trial and related dates.  The Court continues the trial to March 12,
2025 or the next available date on the Court’s calendar.  The final status conference, discovery, and
related dates and deadlines will be based on the new trial date.  In all other
respects, the Court DENIES Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District’s
motion. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file proof of service of this ruling with the Court within
five days.