  Case Number:  SP007923    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  200 LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT 
WEST
DISTRICT - BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE 
DEPT. 200
 
TENTATIVE RULING ON MOTION
OF BRIAN CORMAN OBJECTING TO PROPOSED ORDER SUBMITTED BY GUARDIAN AD LITEM (“GAL”)
FOR MINOR BENEFICIARY CAROLINE CORMAN    
 
In the
Matter of the Pacific Trust, Case No. SP007923 (Related Cases: BC664811,
SP007984 and 17STPB07675)
Hearing
Date: March 28, 2024, Time: 8:30 a.m. 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
          Initially,
Brian did not serve Elizabeth Weaver, Caroline’s mother, with notice of this
motion.[1]
Even if Elzabeth is not a beneficiary of the Trust nor technically a party to
this case, she is still an “interested person,” under Probate Code sec. 48(a)(1),
at least entitled to notice of the motion and what is transpiring herein,
including Brian attaching an article about her. This motion will have to be
continued to the hearing on the scheduled petition for an accounting.[2]  
          That said,
the Court will now dispense with Brian’s argument that the Court lacks the
ability to now decide this matter. This belated attempt to derail these proceedings
fails. The substance of the motion is likewise without merit: Brian argues over
a distinction without a difference. Given the alleged intransigence of the
trustee, the Court will not narrow the scope of the proposed order in a way
that would make the order hollow. The order is intended to assure that the
trustee produces all necessary relevant documents whereby GAL can determine if
trustee is complying with its duties. 
 
BACKGROUND AND STATEMENT OF CONTENTIONS 
 
          On August
16, 2023, GAL filed a petition for instructions concerning his requests for
distributions for Caroline. 
          On January
9, 2024, after the Court had earlier issued a tentative ruling in advance of
the initial November 2, 2023 hearing, and the parties had thereafter an
opportunity to meet and confer, the Court held a further hearing on the
petition for instructions. The parties reached an agreement that resolved the
petition. The stipulation, signed by among others Brian’s counsel, provided
that this case would not be controlled by the stipulation and order filed on
December 12, 2019 in the family law parentage case. 
           On February
17, 2024, GAL submitted a proposed order amending the April 24. 2019 appointing
Fridman as GAL, consistent with what the Court had indicated at the January 9
hearing. 
          On March 6,
2024, Brian filed this motion objecting to the proposed order amending the
order appointing the GAL. Brian asserts that the GAL was given the authority to
determine how the February 7, 2020 Deal Point Memorandum impacted Caroline’s
rights, which settlement and subsequent and ensuing order of December 7, 2021
is now on appeal, and that therefore the GAL cannot now act. Brian contends further
that the December 7. 2021 order resolved all issues affecting this case and
therefore again that the authority of GAL lapsed. In the alternative, he argues
there is a stay on further activity in this case pending appeal and that there
are no “exceptional circumstances” under Probate Code sec. 1310(b) warranting
an exception to a stay. Similarly, he
argues that the Court has lost jurisdiction over this case while the appeal is
pending. 
          On the merits, Brian argues that the
proposed order is broader than the Court’s minute order from the January 9 hearing and should be rejected. Specifically, he
objects to the paragraph that would allow GAL to obtain financial information from
the trustee of Brian’s sub-trust that are necessary to assure Caroline has her
expenses paid, per her “station in life,” consistent with the January 9
stipulation. Brian requests that the Court instead enter a proposed revised
order attached to the motion that narrows what the GAL may seek to what is
“reasonable” and necessary” rather than broadly “relevant.”  
          On March 14,
2024, GAL filed his response to the motion. Friedman indicates he served the
proposed order on counsel for Brian and other parties on January 17, 2024 and heard
nothing before submitting it to the Court a month later. He contends that the
proposed order is consistent with the Court’s ruling on January 9 – to which
Brian did not object. He argues that the GAL order has not lapsed. He claims
further that the trustee is not meeting his fiduciary obligations to Caroline
and that under these circumstances he does not feel it appropriate to seek his
discharge as GAL. Finally, he asserts that it is not clear why Brian would be
paying four law firms to prevent distributions to Caroline and that he is
considering filing a petition for removal of trustee given its no longer paying
Caroline’s expenses. 
          On March 14,
2024, GAL also filed a petition for accounting from the trustee of Brian’s
sub-trust, Crawford Trust Company. 
           On March
21, 2024, Brian filed a Reply. He reiterates his argument that GAL now lacks
any powers. In addition, he contends that GAL required a court order before filing
the petition that led to the proposed order. He emphasizes that he is already
paying Caroline’s expenses himself without need for the trustee to do so in a
tax disadvantageous way. He argues that the proposed order would conflict with
the stipulation that resolved the instructions petition. Finally, he argues
that it is Elizabeth, not him, who is causing the additional fees by her
refusing to communicate with him. 
DISCUSSION 
 
          Brian has
waived and or is estopped from asserting any claim that this Court either now lacks
jurisdiction or that this case is stayed by virtue of the pending appeal. Brian
has already himself been litigating this case, notwithstanding the appeal: Specifically,
Brian and his brother moved to enforce the Deal Point Memorandum, after filing
of the notice of the appeal, which led to an order filed June 27, 2023 in the
related civil case. In addition, Brian has been participating in this separate litigation
involving Caroline since the notice of appeal was filed and stipulated herein to
an order concerning the Family Law Court’s order applicability to this case. Brian
cannot argue that the Court lacks the basis to proceed only after he believes the
decisions may not be in his favor. 
          Even absent such
finding, a court does not lose jurisdiction by reason of an appeal and Brian
cites to no such authority. Unlike in a civil case with an appeal from the
final judgment, in a Probate case there can be an appeal from an order that
does not otherwise affect the court’s supervision of the administration of an
estate or here a trust. (See Estate of Kennedy (1948) 87
Cal.App.2d 795, 798) The appeal here is from an order from a petition
pertaining to the Deal Point Memorandum. The Deal Point Memorandum did not
concern Caroline’s rights of distribution from Brian’s sub-trust. That appeal
does not stay the entire Trust case. Indeed, as discussed above, the Court has
heard other matters while that appeal has been pending - at Brian’s urging that
there is no applicable stay. 
          Under CCP
sec. 916(a), the scope of a stay is only as to the subject matter of the appeal
or matters “embraced in or affected by” the appeal. Again, the appeal concerns
the December 7, 2021 order pertaining to the Deal Point Memorandum. Neither
Caroline nor the GAL were signatories to the Deal Point Memorandum and were not
involved in the wholly different issues settled by that memorandum – distinct
from the discrete issue involving Caroline’s rights in Brian’s sub-trust.[3]  Brian does not show how issues involving
distributions to Caroline are “embraced in or affected by” the Deal Point
Memorandum. Hence, the Court does not need to reach whether there are
“exceptional circumstances” under Probate Code sec. 1310(b), warranting
proceeding notwithstanding an appeal. 
          The December
7, 2021 order did not finally resolve all issues in this case. In fact, Brian’s
appeal is preventing the Court resolving a plethora of other complex issues
that were not definitively settled. Hence, that order does not cause the GAL
order to lapse.[4]
Friedman also disputes that the order has lapsed, contrary to the claim he
agreed that it did. Moreover, Friedman indicates there remain unresolved issues
with the trustee making distributions to Caroline – which issues again were not
the subject of nor had arisen when the Deal Point Memorandum was executed. Hence,
there appears to still be need for a GAL. If Friedman no longer wishes to serve
as GAL, the Court can appoint another person to do so. 
          The underlying
issue on the motion is whether the order should read, as set forth in the
minute order, whether Friedman can “request reasonable financial
information to determine if the trust has sufficient funds to meet Caroline’s
needs per her ‘station in life’ per the prior order, and to obtain from the
trust such financial information as is necessary to assure that Caroline
has the expenses paid per her station in life” or, as Friedman proposed, “obtain
all relevant financial information from the trustee to assess whether Caroline’s
expenses are being paid per her “station in life.”” The Court does not see that
the latter proposal unreasonably expands the nature of what Friedman can request
- if it expands the scope at all. Brian does not explain how the difference
would be meaningful. Moreover, where the trustee is allegedly not making
distributions as requested, and this Court has had to intervene, GAL should
have some leeway to assure that the trustee is complying with his
responsibilities and GAL can assure that by reviewing relevant financial records.
The Court also does not see how the proposed order conflicts with the
stipulation and order concluding the petition for instructions – which does not
address what the proposed order concerns. Finally, as discussed previously, whether
expenses of Caroline should be paid by Brian or Elizabeth is an issue for the
Family Court, not this Court. 
 
CONCLUSION 
          For these reasons,
the Court continues the motion to the hearing on the petition of the GAL for an
accounting set for April 23, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. The Court further orders that
any objections to that petition for accounting be filed and served one week
prior to the hearing. In this way, the Court and parties can better evaluate
the respective positions at the hearing and likely save time and expense. 
 
DATED:                                                                                    
_________________________________
                                                                                                      
DAVID J. COWAN
                                                                                                      
Judge of the Superior Court 
 
 


