 Case Number:  22STCV32047    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
A.   Prior proceedings 
On September 30, 2022, Plaintiff Nicholas Johnson (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Defendants Dawn Renaye Murray-Santos (“Murray-Santos”), Mike
Santos (“Santos”), Maggie Frederick (“Frederick”), and Does 1-20 for motor
vehicle negligence and negligence per se. 
On
November 16, 2023, the Court dismissed the “Second Cause of Action For Prayer
for Punitive Damages” with prejudice at Plaintiff’s request. 
Also
on November 16, 2023, Murray-Santos and Santos (“Santos Defendants”) filed an
answer. 
On
July 8, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion to amend the complaint to
add a punitive damage claim.  The Court
denied the Santos Defendants’ motion to continue the trial and related dates
for lack of proper notice. 
On
July 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint.  In addition, the Court dismissed Frederick
without prejudice at the request of Plaintiff’s counsel. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for July 24, 2024. 
B.   This motion 
On
June 14, 2024, the Santos Defendants filed a motion for change of venue.  The motion was set for hearing on July 16,
2024.  On July 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed
an opposition. On July 9, 2024, the Santos Defendants filed a reply. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
The Santos
Defendants ask the Court to transfer the case to Calaveras County. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 395, subdivision (a),
provides in part: 
“Except as otherwise provided by law and subject to
the power of the court to transfer actions or proceedings as provided in this
title, the superior court in the county where the defendants or some of them
reside at the commencement of the action is the proper court for the trial of
the action. If the action is for injury to person or personal property or for
death from wrongful act or negligence, the superior court in either the county
where the injury occurs or the injury causing death occurs or the county where
the defendants, or some of them reside at the commencement of the action, is a
proper court for the trial of the action. . . . If any person is improperly
joined as a defendant or has been made a defendant solely for the purpose of
having the action tried in the superior court in the county where he or she
resides, his or her residence shall not be considered in determining the proper
place for the trial of the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 395,
subd. (a).) 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 397 provides in part: 
“The court may, on motion, change the place of trial
in the following cases: 
“(a) When the court designated in the complaint is not
the proper court. 
* * *
  (c) When the convenience of witnesses and the ends of
justice would be promoted by the change. . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 397,
subds. (a), (c).) 
          “Even if filed in a ‘proper’ county on appropriate motion,
the court has discretionary power to transfer the case to any other county
‘[w]hen the convenience of witnesses and the ends of justice would be promoted
by the change.’ ”  (L. Edmon & C.
Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 3:553, p. 3-168, citing Code Civ. Proc., § 397,
subd. (c) (Cal. Practice Guide).)  “The
burden of proving both of these conditions is necessarily on the moving party.”  (Willingham v. Pecora (1941) 44
Cal.App.2d 289, 295 (Willingham).) 
“ ‘Convenience
of witnesses is shown by the fact that the residence of all the witnesses is in
the county to which the transfer of the cause is requested. [Citation.] A
conclusion that the ends of justice are promoted can be drawn from the fact
that by moving the trial closer to the residence of the witnesses, delay and
expense in court proceedings are avoided and savings in the witnesses’ time and
expenses are effected.’ ”  (Rycz v.
Superior Court of San Francisco County (2022) 81 Cal.App. 5th 824, 837 (Rycz),
quoting Pearson v. Superior Ct., City
& Cty. of San Francisco (1962)
199 Cal.App.2d 69, 77.) 
“It
is only the convenience of nonparty witnesses that is important.  Absent extraordinary circumstances
[citation], the parties’ conveniences are not considered—even if they are to
testify.”  (Cal. Practice Guide, supra,
¶ 3:555, p. 3-169.)  Thus, for
example, a defendant cannot obtain a transfer solely on the ground that it will
be more expensive or difficult for it to defend the action in the county chosen
by the plaintiff.  (Ibid.)  Convenience of counsel and expert witnesses
who have no personal knowledge of any facts in the case are not permissible
considerations on a change of venue motion. 
(Id., ¶¶ 3:556-557, p. 3-169.) 
“[W]here
a venue is clearly more convenient to most of the witnesses, that alone
supports an inference that moving the trial promotes the interests of justice
because ‘delay and expense in court proceedings are avoided and savings in the
witnesses’ time and expenses are effected.’ 
” (Rycz, supra, 81 Cal.App.5th at p. 848.)  “Additionally, more general interests of
justice are promoted by conducting trial in the venue that has the clearly
greater connection to the underlying events. Among other things, ‘ “[t]here is
a local interest in having localized controversies decided at home” ’ [citation];
‘ “[j]ury duty is a burden that ought not to be imposed upon the people of a
community which has no relation to the litigation” ’ [citation]; maintaining
the possibility of ordering in-person testimony in jury trials preserves
flexibility for trial courts [citation]; ‘the witnesses would be readily
accessible for immediate recall if further testimony was desirable, thus
preventing needless delays’ [citation]; and, [if] . . . law enforcement and
medical personnel [are] named as potential witnesses, it will benefit the
public to minimize the amount of time they are required to be away from work.
Generally speaking, conducting trials in the venue most connected to the
underlying events contributes to a more fair and efficient system of justice.”  (Ibid.) 
          “Although [Code of Civil Procedure section 397] contains no
express time limitation, a motion for change of venue based on convenience of
witnesses must be made within a reasonable time after the answer is filed.  What constitutes a ‘reasonable time’ rests
largely in the trial court’s discretion.” (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 3:559.5, pp.
3-169 to 3-170; see Willingham, supra, 44 Cal.App.2d at p. 295 [“It
is the universal rule in this state that motions of this character must be made
within a reasonable time”].)  “The
grounds for a change of venue may be deemed waived unless presented in a timely
motion for transfer in a proper form.”  (Cal.
Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 3:564, p. 3-170.)  
DISCUSSION 
The
Santos Defendants assert that (1) the accident at issue took place in Calaveras
County, (2) at the time of the accident, Murray-Santos resided in Angels Camp,
California, (3) Murray-Santos and Santos now reside in Ione, California, (4) at
the time of the accident, Plaintiff resided in Sonora, California, (5)
Plaintiff may now reside in Jacksonville, Oregon, (6) reporting officer Bryan Grant
resides in or is employed in San Andreas, California, and (7) Plaintiff
received treatment after the accident in Sonora, California. 
Based
on these asserted facts, the Santos Defendants contend that (1) Los Angeles is
an improper venue under Code of Civil Procedure section 397, subdivision (a),
and (2) transferring the case to Calaveras County would promote the ends of
justice under Code of Civil Procedure section 397, subdivision (c). 
In
response, Plaintiff argues that the motion to transfer venue is untimely.  Plaintiff filed the complaint on September 30, 2022. 
On November 16, 2023, the Santos Defendants filed an answer.  But the Santos Defendants did not file a motion
for change of venue until almost seven months after their answer, on June 14,
2024. 
The
Court finds that the Santos Defendants did not file their motion for change of venue under Code of Civil Procedure section 397, subdivision (c), within a reasonable time.  Therefore, the Court denies the motion to the extent it is based on the convenience of witnesses and promotion of the ends of justice.
The
reasonableness requirement does not appear to apply to motions to transfer
venue based on a contention that “the court designated in the complaint is not
the proper court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 397, subd. (a).)  However, the moving defendant has the burden
of demonstrating that the plaintiff’s venue selection is not proper under any
of the statutory grounds.  (Fontaine
v. Superior Court (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 830, 836.) 
Here,
the Santos Defendants have presented evidence that, at the time of the accident,
Murray-Santos resided in Angels Camp, California.  (See Murray-Santos
dec. ¶ 4.)  Although the Santos
Defendants’ counsel submitted a declaration stating that Murray-Santos
continues to reside in Angels Camp (Wilson dec. ¶ 4), Murray-Santos’s own
declaration states that she and Santos currently live in Ione, California.
 (Murray-Santos
dec. ¶¶ 4-5.)  The Santos Defendants have
presented no evidence about where Murray-Santos, Santos, or Frederick "reside[d] at the commencement of the action” on September
30, 2022.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 395, subd. (a).)  Therefore, the Santos Defendants have not
carried their burden of proving that Plaintiff’s venue selection was not proper
under any of the statutory grounds. 
The
Court denies the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES the motion for change of venue filed by Defendants Dawn Renaye
Murray-Santos and Mike Santos. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.