  Case Number:  22SMCV02938    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  205  Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205  BRADLEY FISCHER,    Plaintiff, v.  NEW REPUBLIC PICTURES, LLC, et al.,    Defendants.    Case No.:  22SMCV02938     Hearing Date:  May 29, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:   PLAINTIFF BRADLEY FISCHER’S    MOTION TO AMEND COMPLAINT  BACKGROUND This action arises from breach of contract.  Plaintiff Bradley Fischer is a film producer, while Defendant New Republic Pictures, LLC (“NRP”) is in the business of film and television production and financing.  (First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) ¶¶ 1-2.)   On November 1, 2019, Plaintiff and Defendant entered into a written contract for Plaintiff to serve as Defendant’s President and Chief Content Officer (the “2019 Agreement”).  (Ex. A to FAC.)  The 2019 Agreement had a two year term of employment, with an option to extend the term for an additional two years.  (FAC ¶¶3, 22; Ex. A.)   The 2019 Agreement provided Fischer with a base salary and guaranteed Fischer bonuses on all movie and television projects that commenced principal photography during Fischer’s employment as well as a producer credit on all such projects.  (FAC ¶22.)  As to post term projects (i.e., projects acquired, greenlit or in production at the time of Fischer’s termination), the 2019 agreement also provided Fischer “shall receive producer fees and ... contingent compensation ... and shall provide services consistent with Fischer’s precedent and industry practice.”  (Id.) In 2020, NRP had an opportunity to team up with Paramount Pictures Corporation (“Paramount”) to produce and finance a slate of films (the “Paramount Slate Pictures”).  (Id. ¶25.)  Fischer and NRP agreed to modify the 2019 Agreement with respect to the Paramount Slate Pictures, including by extending Fischer’s bonus rights to all films included in the Paramount slate in exchange for lower bonus per-picture minimums payable to Fischer by NRP.  (Id. ¶¶ 26, 27.) In 2021, NRP extended the 2019 agreement for another two years.  (Id. ¶29.)  However, in June 2022, NRP fired Fischer allegedly without cause because its indirect majority owner and a Russian oligarch, Dimitry Rybolovlev needed to exit the business after Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.  (Id. ¶¶ 30-31.)   This lawsuit ensued.  The operative complaint alleges claims for (1) breach of contract, (2) declaratory relief, and (3) accounting.   This hearing is on Fischer’s motion for leave to amend the complaint.   Fischer’s seeks leave to add claims arising from NRP’s refusal to pay additional bonus payments that accrued under the 2019 Agreement, as modified and extended by the parties.  NRP is purportedly withholding the bonus payments as an offset against alleged debt Fischer owes NRP.  Fischer contends this conduct is a violation of the Labor Code and additionally constitutes conversion, giving rise to new claims by Fischer against NRP and additional damages for attorneys’ fees and punitive damages.  NRP has filed a notice of non-opposition to the motion for leave to amend.     LEGAL STANDARD CCP § 473(a)(1), provides, in relevant part: “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.¿ The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”¿ Under California Rules of Court Rule, rule 3.1324, subdivision (a),¿a motion to amend a pleading shall:¿ (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments;¿ (2) state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and¿ (3) state what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located.¿¿ ¿ In addition, under California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, subdivision (b),¿a¿separate declaration¿must accompany the motion and must specify:¿¿ (1) the effect of the amendment;¿ (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper;¿ (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and¿ (4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.¿ ¿¿ The Court’s discretion to grant leave “should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same lawsuit.”¿ (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court¿(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.)¿ “The policy favoring amendment is so strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be justified.”  (Howard v. County of San Diego (2010) 184¿Cal.App.4th¿1422, 1428.)¿ “If the motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend. .. .” (Morgan v. Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.)  Prejudice includes “delay in trial, loss of critical evidence, or added costs of preparation.” (Solit v. Tokai Bank, Ltd. New York Branch (1999) 68¿Cal.App.4th¿1435, 1448.) Ordinarily, the Court will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer or motion to strike are premature.¿¿The Court, however, does have discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed amendment fails to state a valid cause of action as a matter of law, and the defect cannot be cured by further amendment.¿ (See¿California Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court¿(1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281 (overruled on other grounds by¿Kransco v. American Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co.¿(2000) 23 Cal.4th 390).)¿ DISCUSSION Fischer’s counsel’s declaration in support of Fischer’s motion for leave to amend satisfies the requirements under CRC Rule 3.1324.  Counsel identifies the proposed amendment and its effect, specifies when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered, and¿provides the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.  (See, e.g., Schwartz Decl. ¶¶8-11.)    Fischer discovered the facts giving rise to the new claims for conversion and violation of the Labor Code on or around October 25, 2023.  (Schwartz Decl. ¶10.)  Fischer notified NRP of its intent to amend the complaint to add claims for Labor Code violations and conversion in November 2023.  (Schwartz Decl. ¶ 5.)  The motion for leave to amend was not filed earlier because counsel attempted without success to obtain a stipulation from NRP for Plaintiff to amend his complaint.  (Schwartz Decl. ¶ 11.)  On these facts, the Court concludes there was no undue delay in bringing the motion to amend.   In any event, delay alone will not justify denying leave to amend.  Although it is true “a court may deny a good amendment in proper form where there is unwarranted delay in presenting it,” it remains the¿case that “where there is no prejudice to the adverse party, it may be an abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend.”  (Fair v. Bakhtiari (2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 1135, 1147; see also¿Kittredge Sports co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048¿(“[Defendant] contends [Plaintiff] unreasonably delayed moving to amend… [e]ven if this were so, it is an abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.”));¿Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761¿(“[I]t is an abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.”);¿Thompson Pacific Construction, Inc. v. City of Sunnyvale (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 525, 545¿(“In spite of this policy of liberality, a court may deny a good amendment in proper form where there is unwarranted delay in presenting it. On the other hand, where there is no prejudice to the adverse party, it may be an abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend.”) (citations omitted). Prejudice exists, for example, where the plaintiff unduly delayed in seeking leave to amend, and the amendment will require a trial continuance and a reopening of discovery on the eve of trial. (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 488¿(“Where the trial date is set, the jury is about to be impaneled, counsel, the parties, the trial court, and the witnesses have blocked the time, and the only way to avoid prejudice to the opposing party is to continue the trial date to allow further discovery, refusal of leave to amend cannot be an abuse of discretion”).)  Here, we are not at the eve of trial.  Trial is set for October 14, 2024.  This is not a case where amendment would result in a delay of trial.  Further, discovery is currently open and is not scheduled to close until September 16, 2024.  Given the narrow scope of the added claims, the Court is confident discovery can be completed in time for the scheduled close of discovery.  Indeed, Fischer represents that the discovery currently being taken already encompasses the facts that give rise to the new claims Fischer seeks to allege.  (Schwartz Decl. ¶ 7.)  Further, NRP does not oppose the motion, and therefore, it concedes it will not be prejudiced by the amendment.   CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file an amended complaint.      IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED: May 29, 2024    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court  