  Case Number:  19TRCV01070    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  M 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. M




 
PAWNEE
  LEASING CORP.,  


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
19TRCV01070




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
BLUE
  DIAMOND SPA, INC., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          November 1,
2023
 
Moving Parties:                      Plaintiff Pawnee Leasing
Corporation
Responding Party:                  Defendants Blue Diamond Spa,
Inc. and Altaf Amlani
Motion for Summary
Judgment or, in the alternative, Summary Adjudication
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion for summary judgment is DENIED.  The motion for summary adjudication is
DENIED. 
BACKGROUND
On November 27, 2019, plaintiff
Pawnee Leasing Corporation filed a complaint against Blue Diamond Spa, Inc. dba
Blue Diamond Body and Skin Care and Altaf Amlani for (1) breach of lease, (2)
breach of guaranty, (3) claim and delivery, and (4) willful and malicious
conversion.
On February 26, 2020, defendants
filed a cross-complaint against Pawnee Leasing Corp., Laser Leasing, Inc., and
John Casey aka Collin Casey for (1) fraud and (2) theft by false pretenses.
On June 9, 2020, defendants filed a
FACC against Pawnee Leasing Corp. and John Casey, aka Collin Casey for (1)
fraud, (2) theft by false pretenses, (3) unlawful business practices, and (4)
conversion.
On February 14, 2022, the court
dismissed John Casey pursuant to oral request made by defense counsel.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
The purpose of a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut
through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their
allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843.  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.
“On a motion for summary judgment,
the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing
that there are no triable issues of material fact.”  Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519.  “A plaintiff or cross-complainant has met his
or her burden of showing that there is no defense to a cause of action if that
party has proved each element of the cause of action entitling the party to
judgment on the cause of action.  Once
the plaintiff or cross-complainant has met that burden, the burden shifts to
the defendant or cross-defendant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.  The defendant or cross-defendant shall not
rely upon the allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable
issue of material fact exists but, instead, shall set forth the specific facts
showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action
or a defense thereto.”  CCP § 437c(p)(1).
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff Pawnee Leasing Corporation
requests summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication in its
favor on each of the causes of action in the complaint. 
            The complaint alleges that on June
15, 2019, plaintiff entered into a lease agreement with defendant Blue Diamond
Spa, Inc. wherein plaintiff leased a Curewave Laser System, Serial # MLS-00644B
to defendants.  The lease agreement is
considered a finance lease under UCC. 
Complaint, ¶8.  Although plaintiff
is the owner of the equipment, it filed a precautionary UCC filing statement
with the California Secretary of State’s office.  Id., ¶9. 
Plaintiff has performed all of the conditions, covenants, and agreements
on its part to be performed in accordance with the terms of the lease
agreement.  Id., ¶10.  On July 15, 2019, defendants defaulted in the
rental payments due under the lease agreement and despite demand from
plaintiff.  Id., ¶11.  Pursuant to the terms of the lease agreement,
plaintiff has declared the entire unpaid balance of rent in the sum of
$64,999.78, together with accrued interest. 
Id., ¶12.  
            The complaint further alleges that
defendant Altaf Amlani executed a guaranty wherein they guaranteed payment by
defendant Blue Diamond Spa of all sums to be paid under the lease
agreement.  Id., ¶17.  
            In support of its motion, plaintiff
presents a copy of a lease agreement and guaranty “wherein plaintiff leased a
Curewave Laser System, Serial No. MLS-00644B” to defendants.  Kenny Fitzgerald decl., Exhs. 3, 4.  According to Fitzgerald’s declaration, on
July 15, 2019, Blue Diamond Spa defaulted on the rental payments due under the
lease and that plaintiff has declared the entire unpaid balance of rent due in
the amount of $64,999.78, plus interest. 
Id., ¶7.  Defendants have refused
to surrender possession of the leased property.  Id., ¶8. 
Plaintiff further contends that it is a commercial finance lender and is
in the business of funding secured transactions for commercial businesses, and
that it had no prior business dealings with Blue Diamond or Amlani before
receiving the application for equipment financing from its broker Maximus
Capital.  The principal of Maximus who
handled the transaction is Steve Orenstein. 
Pawnee has no record of any dealing or affiliation with a person named
John Casey or Laser Leasing.  Id., ¶10.  Plaintiff’s file reflects that on June 10,
2019, an application was received from Maximus Capital for loan approval for
Blue Diamond Spa for $35,000.  The vendor
of the equipment was stated to be Practice Solutions.  Plaintiff issued a conditional approval of
the finance.  Id., ¶11, Exh. 4.  As per standard practice and policy, Quik
Pro, an equipment inspection firm was taxed to make contact with the debtor,
and to confirm that the equipment was on site, that it was satisfactory to the
customer, and to verify that the business was a legitimate ongoing
concern.  As per the notes contained in
Quik Pro’s inspection report, Natalie Hayward conducted the inspection and met
with Anita Neuman, the general manager of the spa, who showed her the equipment
and reported that the business was satisfied with the equipment.  In her inspection, she noted a discrepancy
between the serial number on the equipment she was shown, from the serial
number that was supplied to her.  Id., ¶12,
Exh. 5.  The inspection report also notes
that Neuman was not sure when the equipment was delivered or installed and that
the equipment was about ten years old. 
Id.  The equipment was noted to be
used/good.  Id.  A picture from the report indicates name “Mfg
Erchonia Medical.”  There is no other
identifying information other than the serial no. MLS-00644.
            Plaintiff also asserts that it is in
receipt of the following additional documents submitted on behalf of Blue
Diamond:  copy of Amlani’s driver’s
license, void check and ACH withdrawal document signed by Amlani, insurance
coverage form, June 14, 2019 vendor’s invoice from Practical Solutions with
wiring instructions, and broker’s statement prepared by Maximus Capital.  Id., ¶13. 
On June 18, 2019, Grace Torgensen called Blue Diamond and left a message
with Amlani that she was calling to confirm acceptance of the equipment and
authorization for Pawnee to pay the invoice from the supplier of the laser
equipment.  She received a return phone
call that was recorded.  Id., ¶14, Exh.
11.  In part, the transcript states: Speaker
A1:  Thank you for calling Pawnee. . .
.this is Grace.  How can I help you?  Speaker B1: 
Hello Grace.  This is Altaf from
Blue Diamond Spa returning your call. . . . Speaker A1:  So, again, we have that total financed amount
here for $35,000 even.  There is a total
initial payment as well. . . . Now, we have two options for your first payment
date.  July 1 or July 15.  Which would you prefer?  Speaker B2: 
July 15. . . . Speaker A1: Are you satisfied with the equipment?  Speaker B1: 
Oh, yes.  Speaker A1:  . . . Do you allow me to go ahead and
reimburse the vendor for the equipment and begin your lease today?  Speaker B1: 
Yes.  Speaker A1:  Wonderful.  Are there any questions that I could answer
for you?  Anything that I’ve gone
over?  Anything you’ve seen on the
contract?  Speaker B1:  No, I’m all set.  A welcome letter confirming the transaction
was sent to Blue Diamond on June 19, 2019. 
There was no response to the letter. 
On July 8, 2019, an invoice was sent to Blue Diamond and demand for
payment but there was no response to it. 
On July 22, 2019, Amlani confirmed to Katelyn McCoy that he had singed
the contracts but that he was refusing to pay. 
Id., ¶15.
            Plaintiff also argues that the
transaction was a sale/leaseback but there was no allegation of such in the
complaint.  Thus, the court will not
consider.  Plaintiff also cites to “hell
or high water” case law wherein once plaintiff funds the contract, the lessee has
no right to revoke that acceptance. 
Plaintiff has not presented sufficient evidence that the Curewave was
delivered to defendants and accepted. 
None of the case law cited by plaintiff is California law.
            In opposition, defendants argue that
plaintiff has failed to meet its burden of proving each element of the breach
of lease cause of action, including the existence of a contract, consideration,
and performance.  Defendants assert that
plaintiff admits as an undisputed fact that defendant did not sign the version
of the written agreement attached to the complaint as Exhibit 1.  See Plaintiff’s Separate Statement No.
2.  The contract was not signed by Amlani
on either line of page 1; and the signature is not his.  The equipment’s serial number has been
changed from 1010 to 644B to match the equipment already owned and possessed by
Blue Diamond and Amlani.  He never signed
any document with the 644B serial number on it. 
Defendants present evidence that the only document Amlani partially
signed was signed in the wrong location and the listed property was a “Curewave
Laser System serial number 1010” and argue that the interlineation of the
serial number (to 644B) to match the equipment defendants already owned renders
the agreement materially altered.  
Defendants also argue that
plaintiff has not performed, and plaintiff has not given any consideration.  Neither Pawnee nor Practice Solutions have
delivered any equipment to Blue Diamond. 
Pawnee has not caused any other party or company to deliver any
equipment to Blue Diamond.  Pawnee has
not loaned Blue Diamond or Amlani any money. 
Pawnee has not given anything of value or provided any services to Blue
Diamond or Amlani in exchange for the money. 
Neither Blue Diamond nor Amlani entered into any transaction with
Practice Solutions for the sale of its Zerona equipment.  See Amlani decl., ¶¶23-26; Fatima Harrison
decl.
Rather, defendants argue, the
agreement “is a clever scam whereby Pawnee is attempting to extract payments
from Blue Diamond to ‘lease’ Blue Diamond’s own equipment which it has owned
and possessed since 2010,” and that the equipment is a Zerona laser system
manufactured by Erchonia.  Defendants
present evidence that they leased the Zerona in March 2010 from Santa Barbara
Medical Innovations and purchased it in December 2010, and that it was the only
laser system defendants ever purchased, leased, or possessed. Amlani decl., ¶¶4-6,
Exh. B.
Defendants also note that plaintiff’s
memorandum of points and authorities does not set forth or specifically address
the 2nd through 4th causes of action, which the court
agrees.  In any event, defendants argue,
plaintiff has not met its burden as plaintiff has conceded that defendants own
the equipment at issue (Zerona laser system). 
Defendants further contend that plaintiff has not properly addressed any
specific alleged deficiency with any of defendants’ affirmative defenses.  Moreover, defendants argue, Blue Diamond
filed a Certificate of Dissolution, and it was not suspended for any other
reason and that it can defend itself.
            In reply, plaintiff disputes all of
defendants’ arguments.
Evidentiary objections
As to defendants’ objections, the
court rules as follows:  overruled as to
Nos. 1, 2 as to Adams decl.; overruled as to Nos. 1-15 as to Fitzgerald decl.
 
The court rules as follows:  Plaintiff has not met its burden that that
there is no defense to each of the causes of action by proving each element of
the causes of action, including existence of an agreement and consideration.  The lease schedule A does not match the
equipment description (see Quik Pro’s inspection report) and serial no.  There is also no evidence that a “Curewave
Laser System” was delivered to defendants. 
Quik Pro’s inspection report from June 14, 2019 showed a different
serial number (MLS-00644B) than the one provided to the inspector (1010).  The inspection report shows a picture of a
Erchonia laser system.  Further,
defendant’s office manager indicated she did not know when it was delivered and
said it was over ten years old.  The
invoice at Exh. 9 shows serial no. 644B and is dated June 14, 2019 and ship via
“ground.”  So, presumably, if it was
shipped or even delivered on June 14, 2019, then the office manager would have
been aware, or it would not have been delivered in time for the Quik Pro
inspection.  The motion also did not
address the other three causes of action.
In any event, the court finds that
defendants have provided substantial evidence to raise triable issues of
material fact as to whether a lease contract exists, whether defendants
executed it, and defendants’ lack of possession of the equipment (Curewave) at
issue.  Also, plaintiff appears to be
asserting that the lease agreement is not an agreement for a Curewave, but
rather a leaseback finance agreement for defendant’s 2010 Zerona, which they
did not allege.  The motion is framed by
the pleadings.
As the court finds that there are
triable issues as to the 1st cause of action for breach of lease,
there are also triable issues as to the 2nd cause of action for
breach of guaranty (which is derivative of the 1st cause of action),
3rd cause of action for claim and delivery, and 4th cause
of action for conversion.  The 3rd
and 4th causes of action refer to a Curewave, but the evidence shows
that one was not delivered to defendants or is in their possession.  
The motion for summary judgment is
DENIED. The motion for summary adjudication is DENIED.
Defendants are ordered to give
notice of ruling.
 
 
 



Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. M




 
PAWNEE
  LEASING CORP.,  


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
19TRCV01070




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
BLUE
  DIAMOND SPA, INC., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          November 1,
2023
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendants Blue Diamond
Spa, Inc. and Altaf Amlani 
Responding Party:                  Plaintiff Pawnee Leasing
Corporation
Motion for Summary
Judgment or, in the alternative, Summary Adjudication on Plaintiff’s Complaint
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion for summary judgment is DENIED.  The motion for summary adjudication is
DENIED. 
BACKGROUND
On November 27, 2019, plaintiff
Pawnee Leasing Corporation filed a complaint against Blue Diamond Spa, Inc. dba
Blue Diamond Body and Skin Care and Altaf Amlani for (1) breach of lease, (2)
breach of guaranty, (3) claim and delivery, and (4) willful and malicious
conversion.
On February 26, 2020, defendants
filed a cross-complaint against Pawnee Leasing Corp., Laser Leasing, Inc., and
John Casey aka Collin Casey for (1) fraud and (2) theft by false pretenses.
On June 9, 2020, defendants filed a
FACC against Pawnee Leasing Corp. and John Casey, aka Collin Casey for (1)
fraud, (2) theft by false pretenses, (3) unlawful business practices, and (4)
conversion.
On February 14, 2022, the court
dismissed John Casey pursuant to oral request made by defense counsel.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
The purpose of a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut
through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their
allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843.  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.
“On a motion for summary judgment,
the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing
that there are no triable issues of material fact.”  Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519.  A defendant moving for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of
action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.”  CCP §
437c(p)(2).  “Once the defendant . . .
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” CCP § 437c(p)(2).  
DISCUSSION
            Defendants Blue Diamond Spa, Inc.
and Altaf Amlani request summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary
adjudication in their favor on the grounds that there are no triable issues of
material facts as to each of the causes of action and as a matter of law they
prevail. 
            The complaint alleges that on June
15, 2019, plaintiff entered into a lease agreement with defendant Blue Diamond
Spa, Inc. wherein plaintiff leased a Curewave Laser System, Serial # MLS-00644B
to defendants.  The lease agreement is
considered a finance lease under UCC. 
Complaint, ¶8.  Although plaintiff
is the owner of the equipment, it filed a precautionary UCC filing statement
with the California Secretary of State’s office.  Id., ¶9. 
Plaintiff has performed all of the conditions, covenants, and agreements
on its part to be performed in accordance with the terms of the lease
agreement.  Id., ¶10.  On July 15, 2019, defendants defaulted in the
rental payments due under the lease agreement and despite demand from
plaintiff.  Id., ¶11.  Pursuant to the terms of the lease agreement,
plaintiff has declared the entire unpaid balance of rent in the sum of
$64,999.78, together with accrued interest. 
Id., ¶12.  
            The complaint further alleges that
defendant Altaf Amlani executed a guaranty wherein they guaranteed payment by
defendant Blue Diamond Spa of all sums to be paid under the lease
agreement.  Id., ¶17.  
            The parties do not dispute that Blue
Diamond Spa began business in 2006. 
Defendant’s Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts (“DUMF”)
1.  Altaf Amlani was Blue Diamond Spa’s
president and officer.  DUMF 2.  Blue Diamond dissolved on June 3, 2020.  DUMF 3. 
Blue Diamond was located at 8622 S. Sepulveda Blvd., Los Angeles from
2011 until the business closed.  DUMF
4.  The spa primarily offered skin care,
body treatments, and massage services. 
DUMF 5.  In April 2019, Amlani and
a prospective business partner decided to try to convert Blue Diamond into a
full-service medical spa.  DUMF 12.  Amlani discussed purchasing additional spa
equipment with a company called Lumenis. 
DUMF 13.  Lumenis connected Amlani
with a person identified as John Casey to help broker the financing of the
equipment.  DUMF 14.  Amlani communicated with Casey by phone and
text.  DUMF 16.  In furtherance of the Lumenis transaction,
Casey requested Amlani’s credit application, bank statements, driver’s license,
passport, and tax returns.  DUMF 17.  Amlani provided all of the requested
information except for his tax returns. 
DUMF 18.  
 
            1st cause of action
for breach of lease agreement
            Defendants argue that this claim
fails because the agreement is not valid because Amlani did not fully execute
it and the agreement fails for plaintiff’s lack of performance and
consideration.
 
            Defendants present evidence that in
March 2010, Amlani and Blue Diamond arranged to lease a Zerona laser from Santa
Barbara Medical Solutions.  Amlani decl.,
¶4, Exhs. A, B. The Zerona system was manufactured by Erchonia and has a serial
number of MLS-00644B.  Id., Exh. B, Fatima
Harrison decl., ¶3, Pawlowski decl., ¶3. 
In December 2010, Blue Diamond agreed to purchase the Zerona.  Amlani decl., ¶5, Exh. C.  The Zerona is the only laser system Blue
Diamond or Amlani have ever purchased or possessed.  Id., ¶6. 
As to purchasing additional spa equipment in 2019, Amlani’s prospective
business partner decided not to pursue the spa idea further and Amlani decided
against obtaining additional spa equipment. 
Id., ¶9.  On June 10, 2019, Casey
contacted Amlani and told him that he had another deal through “his company”
and he could prequalify Amlani for “working capital.”  Id., ¶10, Exh. E.  Casey emailed to Amlani a “Lease Agreement”
purportedly between Pawnee and Blue Diamond and a personal guaranty in Amlani’s
name already filled out.  Id.  The Lease Schedule A identified the lease to
be for a Curewave Laser System serial no. 1010 to be supplied by Practice
Solutions Northeast.  Id., ¶11.  Amlani signed the agreement, and his employee
emailed it back to Casey.  Id., ¶12, Exh.
F.
            Defendants also present evidence
that on June 13, 2019, Casey texted Amlani and told him that someone from
Pawnee would call him to “confirm receipt of the curewave laser” and to say
“yes.”  Id., ¶13, Exh. G.  A few hours later, Casey texted Amlani to ask
if he already had a laser in his spa. 
Id., ¶14, Exh. H.  Amlani told
Casey he had the Zerona laser.  Id.  Casey asked for the serial no. of the Zerona,
and Amlani told him.  Id.  Amlani received a message from someone named
Natalie who wanted to conduct an equipment inspection.  Amlani forwarded the text to Casey and Casey
responded, “just show her the erchonia laser as the laser being leased.”  Id., ¶15. 
On June 14, 2019, Quick Pro visited Blue Diamond’s business
location.  Id., ¶16.  No new or additional equipment of any kind
had been delivered to Blue Diamond prior to the inspection.  Id., ¶14. 
The Quick Pro inspector wanted to see a Curewave system with serial no.
1010.  Harrison decl., ¶7.  Harrison directed the inspector to the Zerona
laser, who took photos.  Id.  The inspector noted a discrepancy as to the
serial number.  Stewart Powell decl.,
Exh. A.  
            Defendants further assert that on
June 14, 2019, Casey texted Amlani that he had signed the contract in the wrong
spot and asked him to re-sign it.  Amlani
decl., ¶17, Exh. I.  Amlani did not
re-sign the contract, and did not send any additional documents to Casey or
Pawnee.  Id., ¶18.  Amlani decided he would not proceed with the
transaction.  Id.  Pawnee called Amlani to obtain verbal
approval for the transaction.  Id., ¶19.  Amlani told Pawnee he did not approve or
authorize the transaction.  Id.  On June 17, 2019, Casey called Amlani and
left him a voice mail message that he had heard from “his bank” that Amlani had
not given verbal authorization; that he controls everything and to do what he
says; and that Amlani better correct the problem and give verbal authorization
for the transaction within the hour. 
Id., ¶20, Exh. J.  Amlani did not
call Pawnee or Casey back.  Id., ¶21.  Amlani asserts that the agreement attached to
the complaint was not signed by Amlani at page 1, and that it is not his
signature, and that he never signed a document with the serial number 1010
crossed out and 644B in its place.  Id., ¶22
            Defendants also contend that Pawnee
has never delivered any equipment of any kind to Blue Diamond or caused another
party or company to deliver any equipment to Blue Diamond.  Id., ¶23. 
Pawnee has not loaned any money to defendants.  Id., ¶24. 
Practice Solutions Northeast has not ever delivered any equipment of any
kind to Blue Diamond.  Id., ¶26.
In its opposition, plaintiff
requests that the court take judicial notice of plaintiff’s motion for summary
judgment and incorporates the memorandum of points and authorities and all
evidence.  Plaintiff also argues that
defendants have not met their burden as none of defendants’ evidence is
admissible and does not support any affirmative defense.  Plaintiff contends that defendants’ ownership
of the equipment before the equipment finance transaction is of no legal
relevancy because plaintiff fully performed. 
Further, plaintiff asserts, defendants “admit” that John Casey was
working as agent for Blue Diamond/Amlani to obtain “working capital”;
defendants gave documents to Casey for obtaining finance; and defendants admit
to signing the lease agreement, albeit in the “wrong place.”  Plaintiff also contend that defendants
admitted to what transpired at the Quick Pro inspection.  Further, plaintiff asserts that it paid
Practical Solutions (vendor) $35,000, and that it is affiliated with broker
Casey.  Plaintiff points out that the
lease agreement states in part:  “Upon
the Acceptance Date, you will be deemed to have agreed that the Equipment is
satisfactory and is in good working condition and the lease will become your ABSOLUTE
UNCONDITIONAL OBLIGATION THAT YOU CANNOT CANCEL OR TERMINATE.”  Plaintiff also contends that it performed its
contractual commitments.
            The court finds that there are
triable issues as to the existence of a contract and consideration and
performance.  Under this cause of action,
plaintiff alleges that plaintiff entered into a lease “wherein Plaintiff leased
a (1) Curewave Laser System, Serial # MLS-00644B to Defendants” but the evidence
appears to show that Schedule A of the lease agreement reflects equipment (Curewave)
that was not delivered and is not in the possession of defendants and that the
serial no. belongs to equipment (Zerona laser system) owned by defendants.  Also, of note, defendants admit that it
directed Pawnee’s inspector to equipment it owns rather than acknowledge that
it had not received or was in possession of the Curewave.  There is a triable issue as to whether and to
what extent defendants claimed that they had received the Curewave and in
reliance on such representation, plaintiff paid the supposed vendor.  There is also a triable issue as to whether
defendant executed the agreement and whether it is enforceable.
 
2nd cause of action for
breach of guaranty
            Defendant argues that this claim
fails because it is predicated on a valid contract, which does not exist.
            As stated under the 1st
cause of action, the court finds that there are triable issues of material fact.
 
            3rd cause of action
for claim and delivery
            The complaint alleges that pursuant
to the terms of the lease agreement, plaintiff is entitled to immediate
possession of the Curewave Laser System, serial no. MLS-00644B.  Complaint, ¶20.
Defendant argues that this claim
fails because plaintiff does not own or have a right to the Zerona.
            The court finds that there is a
triable issue of material fact as to the equipment at issue.  The allegations of the complaint and the lease
agreement refer to the lease of a Curewave Laser System but with the serial no.
of the 2010 Zerona.  There is no evidence
that a Curewave Laser System was delivered to defendants,  and the complaint make no allegation as to the
2010 Zerona owned by defendants.
            4th cause of action
for conversion
The complaint alleges that
plaintiff was and is the owner of the Curewave Laser System, serial no.
MLS-00644B, “which is more fully described in the Lease Agreement.”  Complaint, ¶22.
Defendant argues that this claim
fails because plaintiff does not own or have a right to the Zerona.
See the court’s finding under the 3rd
cause of action.  
            Evidentiary objections
            Plaintiff’s objections are
overruled.  Further, plaintiff improperly
combined several paragraphs of the declarations into one objection and ruling.
 
The motion for summary judgment is
DENIED.  The motion for summary
adjudication is DENIED.
Defendants are ordered to give
notice of ruling.
 