 Case Number:  23STCV25548    Hearing Date:   August 5, 2024    Dept:  52 Order to Show Cause Re: Entry of Default
Judgment
Plaintiff Key Star Capital Fund III, L.P. requested
entry of default of defendants Light Days Hospice, Inc. and Avedis
Avedissian.  The clerk entered
defendants’ defaults on June 5, 2024.  Plaintiff
has not requested entry of default judgment.
Plaintiff did not submit adequate proof of service
of summons on defendant Avedissian.  The
proof of service attests to substituted service on Avedissian at 109 N. Chevy
Chase Dr., Unit C, Box 220, Glendale, CA 91206. 
The proof of service states the process server left the documents with a
“Clerk at Mail Box Rental Store, a Commercial Mail Receiving Agency.”  
For substituted service on a commercial mail
receiving agency (CMRA), Code of Civil Procedure section 415.20(c) provides: “Notwithstanding
subdivision (b),” the general provision for substituted service on an
individual, “if the only address reasonably known for the person to be served
is a private mailbox obtained through a commercial mail receiving agency,
service of process may be effected on the first delivery attempt by leaving a
copy of the summons and complaint with the commercial mail receiving agency in
the manner described in subdivision (d) of Section 17538.5 of the Business and
Professions Code.”  Without proper
grounds for service on a CMRA, any default judgment against Avedissian would be
void.  (Kremerman v. White (2021) 71
Cal.App.5th 358, 373-374.)   
Plaintiff has not shown the CMRA is “the only address reasonably known
for” Avedissian.  Unless plaintiff does
so, it cannot resort to substituted service through a CMRA unless “the summons
and complaint cannot with reasonable diligence be personally delivered to the
person to be served.”  (CCP §
415.20(b).)  “Ordinarily, two or three
attempts at personal service at a proper place and with correct pleadings
should fully satisfy the requirement of reasonable diligence and allow
substituted service to be made.”  (Kremerman
v. White, supra, 71 Cal.App.5th at p. 373.)  Plaintiff did not submit a declaration of
diligence attesting to any attempts to personally serve Avedissian.
The court hereby vacates the
default of defendant Avedis Avedissian.  The
order to show cause re: entry of default judgment is hereby continued to
October 10, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.