  Case Number:  23STCV22536    Hearing Date:   August 5, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant RA Consulting’s Motion for
Protective Order
Plaintiff/cross-defendant
Peter Alexan Enterprises Inc. dba RA Consulting moves for a protective order.  Code of Civil Procedure section 2017.020(a)
provides, “The court shall limit the scope of discovery if it determines that
the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of that discovery clearly outweighs the
likelihood that the information sought will lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.”  Generally, “the burden
is on the party seeking the protective order to show good cause for whatever
order is sought.”  (Fairmont Ins. Co.
v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)
Plaintiff’s motion does not
clearly explain the order it seeks.  The
notice of motion states plaintiff “will move this Court for entry of a
protective order and for relief concerning” defendant’s requests for production
and special interrogatories.  (Motion, p.
1.)  It does not state what “relief”
plaintiff seeks.  The memorandum further
states plaintiff “requests a Protective Order limiting discovery for mediation.”  (Id., p. 6.)  It then states, “The discovery at issue is as
follows:” and lists numerous special interrogatories and requests for
production.  (Ibid.)  The memorandum also notes plaintiff’s counsel
was busy with a trial in another case (id., pp. 1, 3-5.)  Both the motion and reply brief refer to efforts
to settle the case at mediation without completing this discovery.  
From the papers, it is not
clear whether plaintiff seeks an order delaying the deadline to respond to
discovery or an order sustaining its objections to the interrogatories and
requests for production listed in the opening brief.  Plaintiff does not show good cause for any
protective order.  As to delaying
discovery, filing this motion already significantly delayed the resolution of
these disputes.  As to the objections,
plaintiff does not show a sufficient basis to sustain them and limit discovery.
Plaintiff does not justify
its objections that this discovery results in unwarranted annoyance and
oppression or undue burden and expense. 
This discovery is not so broad, cumulative, or burdensome that it
outweighs the needs of the case. 
Defendant shows this discovery is necessary to investigate her PAGA
claims.    
Plaintiff also does not establish
grounds for denying discovery based on its privacy objections.  “The party asserting a privacy right must
establish a legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable
expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion
that is serious.”  (Williams v.
Superior Court (2017)
3 Cal.5th 531, 552 (Williams).)  If the objecting party shows
all three elements, then the court must balance the need for disclosure against
the right to privacy.  (Ibid.)  The court must also consider “the availability of
alternatives and protective measures.”  (Id. at p. 556.)
Assuming plaintiff meets the three elements
required for these objections, defendant proposes reasonable ways to mitigate
the invasion of privacy and demonstrates an adequate need for this
discovery.  In Williams, the California Supreme Court stated: “In wage and hour collective actions, fellow employees would
not be expected to want to conceal their contact information from plaintiffs
asserting employment law violations, the state policies in favor of effective
enforcement of these laws weigh on the side of disclosure, and any residual
privacy concerns can be protected by issuing so-called Belaire-West
notices affording notice and an opportunity to opt out from disclosure.”  (3 Cal.5th at p. 553.)  
The same principles apply
here.  Defendant proposed using a Belaire-West notice to potential aggrieved employees or producing documents “with
unique numerical identifiers” instead of the employees’ names.  (Opp., p. 12.)  Moreover, on June 4, 2024, the court entered
a protective order permitting confidential and highly confidential
designations.  These measures will
adequately protect the privacy rights at issue.
Sanctions
            In her opposition, defendant seeks
$2,925 in sanctions against plaintiff and its counsel, jointly and severally.  Code of Civil Procedure section 2017.020(b)
provides, “The court shall impose a monetary sanction … against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion for a
protective order, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.”  
            Plaintiff and plaintiff’s counsel
did not act with substantial justification in moving for a protective order.  The motion failed to identify what protective
order plaintiff seeks.  It also makes
meritless arguments about the subject discovery.  For example, it argues, “California Code of
Civil Procedure § 1985.3 requires a Notice to Consumer when a consumer’s
private financial information is sought to be discovered.  Here, plainly no Notice to Consumer was
provided by counsel for Blash.”  (Memo,
p. 5.)  Assuming that requirement
applies, Blash cannot give notice to any consumer because plaintiff objected to
identifying the aggrieved employees.  As
to the privacy objections, plaintiff did not cite or address the legal standard
stated by the California Supreme Court in Williams and Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn.
(1994) 7 Cal.4th 1.  Sanctions are just
under the circumstances.  Defendant
reasonably incurred $2,925 in expenses opposing this motion.    
            Plaintiff argues “the sanction
section is on page 16 of the brief” and should therefore be disregarded because
briefs are limited to 15 pages.  (Reply,
p. 9.)  Not only does the section on
sanctions begin on page 15 (Opp., p. 15), but also the opposition’s title
specifically includes a “request for sanctions against plaintiff and its
attorneys for $2,925” (id.,
caption).  The introduction also asserts
plaintiff’s “conduct warrants monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and its
counsel, jointly and severally, in the amount of $2,925.”  (Id.,
p. 1.)  Even if the court disregards page
16 of the opposition, defendant gave plaintiff ample notice of the sanctions sought.
Disposition
Plaintiff/cross-defendant
Peter Alexan Enterprises Inc. dba RA Consulting’s motion for protective order
is denied.  Peter Alexan
Enterprises Inc. dba RA Consulting and its counsel of record, S. Michael Kernan
and R. Paul Katrinak, are ordered to pay defendant/cross-complainant
Jara Blash $2,925 within 20 days. 
Plaintiff and both its attorneys are jointly and severally liable for
the sanctions.