  Case Number:  21STCV20276    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2023    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



MARISELA VASQUEZ; ANTHONY IXTA, a minor, by Marisela Vasquez, as
  his guardian ad litem; ANABELLE IXTA, a minor, by Marisela Vasquez, as her
  guardian ad litem; LUNA VASQUEZ, a minor, by Marisela Vasquez, as her
  guardian ad litem; MANUEL VASQUEZ, a minor, by Marisela Vasquez, as his
  guardian ad litem,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
HAVEN WARNER CENTER; FPI MANAGEMENT, INC.; LISA NGUYEN; DENNIS
  TREADAWAY; REGINA JASINKSI; and DOES I through 20, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          21STCV20276
 Hearing Date:   9/18/23
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant Pacific Urban Investors’ Demurrer to Complaint;
  and
Defendant Pacific Urban Investors’ Motion to Strike
  Portions of Complaint.



 
Background
Plaintiffs Marisela Vasquez,
Anthony Ixta, Anabelle Ixta, Luna Vasquez, and Manuel Vasquez (the latter four
Plaintiffs being minors) sue Defendants Pacific Urban Investors (Pacific; erroneously
sued as Haven Warner Center), FPI Management, Inc. (FPI), Lisa Nguyen, Dennis
Treadaway, Regina Jasinksi, and Does 1 through 20 pursuant to a May 28, 2021
Complaint alleging claims of (1) Battery, (2) Negligence, (3) Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress, (4) Breach of the Implied Warranty of
Habitability, (5) Breach of the Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment, (6) Violation of
Civil Code Section 1942.4, (7) Private Nuisance, (8) Public Nuisance, and (9)
Breach of Contract.
The claims arise from allegations
that during their tenancy of the premises located at 6530 Independence Ave.,
Canoga Park, California 91303 (the Haven Warner Center), Unit 237 (Subject
Premises), Plaintiffs for months suffered from a bed bug infestation, resulting
in bites, injuries, and medical expenses to Plaintiffs, with Plaintiffs
informing Defendants of the infestation, which Defendants failed to remedy.
The action was originally assigned
to Department 27 of the Personal Injury Court at the Spring Street Courthouse.
The summons of the Complaint was not issued and filed until November 14, 2022.
On March 9, 2023, the summons and
Complaint were served on Pacific at the Haven Warner Center by substituted
service on a leasing office representative.
On April 11, 2023, Pacific demurred
to the Complaint’s first and sixth causes of action.
That same day, Pacific moved to
strike allegations and attorneys’ fees prayers relating to the sixth cause of
action.
The demurrer and motion to strike
were set for hearing on May 10, 2023.
On May 8, 2023, Department 27
determined that this action was not a personal injury case as defined in the
Superior Court’s General Order re Jurisdiction of such cases, for which reason
Department 27 sent this action to Department 1 for reassignment. Department 27
also took off calendar all hearings for this action then set in that
Department, including the Pacific demurrer and motion to strike.
On May 9, 2023, Department 1
reassigned this action to Department 40 at the Stanley Mosk Courthouse (the
Court).
On August 28, 2023, the Court reset
the hearing for Pacific’s demurrer and motion to strike for September 18, 2023.
Pacific’s demurrer and motion to
strike are now before the Court.
 
Demurrer
Demurrer Sufficiency Standard
A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747; see Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) This
device can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a
[general] demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a
cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High
School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) In testing the sufficiency of the
cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly
pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.)
A demurrer, however, “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of
fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context. (Taylor
v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th
1216, 1228, disapproved on other grounds, Jones v. Lodge at Torrey Pines
Partnership (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1158, 1162.) The face of the complaint
includes exhibits attached to the complaint. (Frantz v. Blackwell (1987)
189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94.) If facts appearing in the exhibits contradict those
alleged, the facts in the exhibits take precedence. (Holland v. Morse Diesel
Intern., Inc. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1443, 1447, superseded by statute on
other grounds as stated in White v. Cridlebaugh (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th
506, 521.)
Complaint, First Cause of
Action, Battery: SUSTAINED, With Leave to Amend.
“The essential elements of a cause
of action for battery are: (1) defendant touched plaintiff, or caused plaintiff
to be touched, with the intent to harm or offend plaintiff; (2) plaintiff did
not consent to the touching; (3) plaintiff was harmed or offended by defendant’s
conduct; and (4) a reasonable person in plaintiff’s position would have been
offended by the touching. [Citations.]” (So v. Shin (2013) 212
Cal.App.4th 652, 669.)
The Complaint’s first cause of
action alleges battery based on bed bugs in the Subject Premises biting
Plaintiffs during their tenancy and based on Defendants failing to remedy the
infestation despite knowledge thereof, thus acting with intent or reckless
disregard of the likelihood that Plaintiffs would be bit by the bed bugs, and
with authorization or ratification of this conduct by Defendants. (Complaint,
¶¶ 16-34, 35-41.)
The parties disagree as to whether
the Complaint alleges the requisite intent for the purposes of a battery claim,
focusing on Defendants’ inaction in failing to abate the bed bug infestation in
the Subject Premises.
In its demurrer, Pacific argues in
essence that “[P]laintiffs do not allege that Pacific caused the bed bugs to
touch the plaintiffs offensively; instead, the plaintiffs allege that Pacific’s
acts resulted in offensive contact by the bed bugs.” (Demurrer, pp. 6-7.)
In opposition, Plaintiffs cite to a
Seventh Circuit Court case—Mathias v. Accor Econ. Lodging, Inc. (7th
Cir. 2003) 347 F.3d 672, 675 (Mathias)—which states in dictum that the
failure to warn or take effective measures to eliminate the bed bugs in that
case amounted to fraud and probably battery. Plaintiffs also refer to a duty of
care imposed on owners of real property relating to keeping premises safe
where, for example, the landowner willfully or maliciously fails to guard
against a dangerous condition. Plaintiffs moreover argue that “Plaintiffs[]
have satisfied the intent requirement for battery by alleging that ‘Defendants,
and DOES 1 through 20, did the aforementioned acts with the intent to cause a
harmful or offensive contact with the body of Plaintiffs, or with a reckless
disregard of the probability of causing such offensive contact’ (Complaint, p.
8, ¶ 37)” where “[s]uch an extreme departure from an ordinary standard of care
amounts to wanton and reckless misconduct and satisfies the threshold
requirement for intent.” Plaintiffs otherwise note their allegations of
inaction by Defendants in failing to abate the bed bug infestation, Plaintiffs
not consenting to the bed bug bites, and injuries sustained therethrough.
(Opp’n, 7-9.)
In reply, Pacific argues that Mathias
is not persuasive here and that “[P]laintiffs’ discussion in the opposition
regarding duty of care and intent are misplaced, especially considering the
instant issue and the elements of battery,” where “Pacific is not making any
contentions as to negligence or intent” but rather, noting that “[P]laintiffs
fail to allege that Pacific touched them or that Pacific caused bedbugs to
touch them.” (Reply, pp. 2-3.)
The Court finds in favor of Pacific.
The Complaint does not allege the requisite “intent to harm or offend” necessary
for battery.
The Court first notes that Mathias
is not a Ninth Circuit case or a California case. It is instead dicta from a
Circuit to which California does not belong. Moreover, the facts involved in that
case are far beyond those alleged here. (Mathias, 347 F.3d at pp. 674-675
[refusal to spray during years of complaints and finally renting a room to
plaintiffs that the motel had classified as “DO NOT RENT UNTIL TREATED”].) For these
reasons, the Court finds Mathias insufficient to overrule the demurrer
here.
Plaintiff’s remaining arguments
unconvincingly blur the line between torts sounding in negligence and
intentional torts. Battery is an intentional tort. Whatever duties Defendants
may have owed to Plaintiffs in negligence or premises liability law, the issue
here is that the allegations of inaction as alleged in the Complaint do not sufficiently
amount to intent for the purposes of battery.
The Court finds that the
allegations of Defendants’ “intent to cause a harmful or offensive contact” are
conclusory without clearer ultimate facts alleging how Defendants—here, Pacific
in particular—manifested an intent to harm or offend Plaintiffs through the bed
bug bites. (Complaint, ¶ 37.)
Even though no case has been cited
to this Court that holds that a landlord can be held liable for battery based
on bedbugs, the Court does not hold a bed bug bite could never be sufficient for
such a claim. Battery does not require body-to-body contact; thus one is liable
for battery if one throws a substance such as water upon the other. (Mount
Vernon Fire Ins. Corp. v. Oxnard Hospitality Enterprise, Inc. (2013) 219
Cal.App.4th 876, 881.) What is necessary, however, is for the pleadings to
allege that the Defendants, through their own conduct, caused bed bugs to bite
the plaintiff, with the requisite intent to harm or offend the plaintiff. (So
v. Shin, supra, 212 Cal.App.4th at p. 669.) Here, though the Complaint
conclusorily alleges that Defendants caused Plaintiffs to be offensively
touched by beg bugs through bites, the Complaint’s allegations do not specify what
such conduct consisted of, other than claiming it was Defendants’ “inaction.”
This is important, because the Complaint does note that at least at some point,
Defendant Regina Jasinski did respond to Plaintiffs and sprayed for the bedbug
infestation. (Complaint at ¶23.) Although the Complaint alleges that the spraying
caused further injuries, it nonetheless appears to contradict the Complaint’s
contention that Defendants failed to act after getting notice of the bed bugs.
Pacific’s demurrer to the
Complaint’s first cause of action is thus SUSTAINED, With Leave to Amend.
Complaint, Sixth Cause of
Action, Violation of Civil Code § 1942.4: SUSTAINED, With Leave to
Amend.
“A landlord of a dwelling may not
demand rent, collect rent, issue a notice of a rent increase, or issue a
three-day notice to pay rent or quit pursuant to subdivision (2) of Section
1161 of the Code of Civil Procedure, if all of the following conditions exist
prior to the landlord’s demand or notice:
(1) The dwelling substantially
lacks any of the affirmative standard characteristics listed in Section 1941.1
or violates Section 17920.10 of the Health and Safety Code, or is deemed and
declared substandard as set forth in Section 17920.3 of the Health and Safety
Code because conditions listed in that section exist to an extent that
endangers the life, limb, health, property, safety, or welfare of the public or
the occupants of the dwelling.
(2) A public officer or employee
who is responsible for the enforcement of any housing law, after inspecting the
premises, has notified the landlord or the landlord’s agent in writing of his
or her obligations to abate the nuisance or repair the substandard conditions.
(3) The conditions have existed and
have not been abated 35 days beyond the date of service of the notice specified
in paragraph (2) and the delay is without good cause. For purposes of this
subdivision, service shall be complete at the time of deposit in the United
States mail.
(4) The conditions were not caused
by an act or omission of the tenant or lessee in violation of Section 1929 or
1941.2.”
(Civ. Code, § 1942.4, subds.
(a)(1)-(4).)
The Complaint’s sixth cause of
action alleges that though Defendants were notified of the beg bug
infestations, they failed to remedy the infestations and still collected rent
from Plaintiffs, thus violating Civil Code section 1942.4. (Complaint, ¶¶
87-94.)
In its demurrer, Pacific argues
that the Complaint fails to allege the “public officer or employee” requirement
of this statutory section, thus failing to sufficiently state a claim premised
on section 1942.4. (Demurrer, p. 7.)
In opposition, Plaintiffs fail to
address this argument. (Opp’n, pp. 10-11.)
In reply, Pacific notes this
failure to address the “public officer or employee” portion of section 1942.4
and the failure to make allegations to that effect in the Complaint. (Reply,
pp. 3-4.)
The Court finds in favor of Pacific.
The Complaint fails to allege that Plaintiffs reported the beg bug infestations
to some public officer or employee responsible for the enforcement of housing
law, who, after inspecting the premises, notified Defendants in writing that
they had an obligation to abate the beg bug nuisance.
Pacific’s demurrer to the
Complaint’s first cause of action is thus SUSTAINED, With Leave to Amend.
 
Motion to Strike
Legal
Standard
The
court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion and upon terms it
deems proper: (a) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading; or (b) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436, subds. (a), (b); Stafford v. Shultz
(1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the
claim is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or
disregarded”].)
For
the purposes of a motion to strike pursuant to Sections 435 to 437 of the Code
of Civil Procedure, the term “pleading” generally means a demurrer, answer,
complaint, or cross-complaint, (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (a)), and an
immaterial allegation or irrelevant matter in a pleading entails (1) an
allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense, (2) an
allegation that is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise
sufficient claim or defense, or (3) a demand for judgment requesting relief not
supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint (Code Civ.
Proc., § 431.10, subds. (b)(1)-(3), (c)).
Order
Striking Civil Code § 1942.4 Allegations and Corresponding Prayer for
Attorneys’ Fees: GRANTED, With Leave to Amend. 
Because
the Court has sustained the demurrer as to the Complaint’s sixth cause of
action, Defendants motion to strike claims for statutory damages, costs, and
attorneys’ fees related to the Complaint’s sixth cause of action as it pertains
to Pacific is GRANTED, With Leave to Amend. Such allegations and prayers are
irrelevant to the Complaint’s claims, as modified by the sustained demurrer,
and/or constitute a demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the
allegations of the Complaint. 

Conclusion
Defendant Pacific Urban Investors’
Demurrer to Complaint is SUSTAINED, With Leave to Amend.
Defendant Pacific Urban Investors’
Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint is GRANTED, With Leave to Amend.
Plaintiffs Marisela Vasquez,
Anthony Ixta, Anabelle Ixta, Luna Vasquez, and Manuel Vasquez are provided 14
days’ leave to amend the pleadings.