 Case Number:  21STCV02566    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion to vacate defendant’s default.  Some brief background is important, although
more can be found in earlier decisions. 
It is also an ex parte application to re-open discovery.
 
The ex parte application is DENIED.  The gist of the motion is that defendant has
done essentially no discovery and needs to depose witnesses plaintiff
identified as well as her treating physicians. 
Defendant also says he needs to designate an expert.  The problem is that defendant did nothing
until recently.  Although, as discussed
below, defendant suggests that he was unaware of what was going on for a while
after he fired prior counsel (and the court assumes that involves both of the
related cases), he was well aware that he was being sued and he knew the trial
date.  The fact that he chose to fire his
prior counsel or cause them to withdraw and that he did nothing for a long time
after that is not plaintiff’s problem or the court’s problem.  Further, even after defendant retained new
counsel (not current counsel), he did nothing to move the discovery ball
forward.  His current counsel came on
board about a month before the discovery cut off—back in August—but has done
little or anything in the time that had been remaining to do discovery.  Counsel moved to re-open discovery, but
withdrew the motion.  (The court seems to
recall that this was because it cited to non-existent cases, likely because it
was written by AI.)  The court does not
believe that defendant has acted diligently in terms of getting the motion
heard, and the court will therefore not advance it.  The court will hear the motion on the date
for which it is calendared: January 2, 2025. 
With that, the court turns to the motion to re-instate the answer, which
pertains to the other related case.  
(The court wrote this paragraph before seeing the opposition, which the
court has since read.  The opposition,
not surprisingly, does not change the court’s view.)
 
Plaintiff filed this complaint alleging sexual assault upon
her.  However, On February 28, 2023,
Way’s counsel sought to withdraw.  The
request was granted on March 22, 2023. 
In the withdrawal papers, Way’s counsel set forth an email address for
Way along with evidence that counsel and Way communicated using that
address.  Plaintiff thereafter attempted
to take Way’s deposition.  However, Way
did not respond to the deposition notice, which led plaintiff to move to compel
and for monetary sanctions.  On November
22, 2023, the court granted the order and directed Way to appear for his
deposition.  Way did not appear and
plaintiff then moved for terminating sanctions. 
On February 23, 2024, the court granted the unopposed motion, noting
that it likely would not have granted the motion had Way opposed it or given
any indication that he would be willing to be deposed.  However, in one last effort to avoid that
result, the court directed plaintiff not to seek a default (the answer was
stricken by the order) for 15 days.  The
court stated that if Way sought to reinstate the answer during that time, the
court would consider the motion rather than allow default to be entered.  The court also noted that a statement of
damages would need to be filed before default was entered to comport with due
process.  A statement of damages was
filed and default was later entered on March 28, 2024.  The statement of damages sought a recovery of
$10 million.  The day after the default
was entered, on March 29, 2024, Way moved to set aside the order striking the
answer.  The motion was denied, but
without prejudice.  The reason was that
defendant filed a supplemental statement on May 1, 2024 and a second supplemental
statement on May 6, 2024.  The court
therefore denied the motion without prejudice, but stated that the motion could
be re-filed no later than May 20, 2024. 
On May 20, 2024, the parties reached an accord.  Plaintiff agreed to set aside the default and
allow defendant to answer and to continue the trial date.  In return, Way agreed to: (1) be timely
deposed (which took a bit longer than anticipated but was done); (2) pay the
outstanding sanctions (which was done); and (3) have the trial of the defaulted
matter and the related matter consolidated so that they would be tried together.  The court entered an order in conformity with
that stipulation on June 14, 2024. 
However, Way then retained new counsel and filed a series of motions
including: (1) a motion to re-open discovery (which was later withdrawn but has
since been re-filed); (2) a motion for judgment on the pleadings (although not
in the previously defaulted case, and which has been denied); and (3) a motion
to sever.  At the hearing on the motion
to sever, plaintiff objected on the basis that this was the major consideration
it received in return for the agreement to set aside the default.  Defense counsel stated that the lawyer who
negotiated that deal did not understand the ramifications of the agreement and,
notwithstanding representations to the contrary, did not have the client’s
approval to enter into the deal.  This
court was very troubled.  The notion that
Way’s lawyer—who had been in practice for a long time—did not know what a
consolidation was beggars reason.  And
the statement that counsel indicated that he had authority but in fact did not
is troubling on many levels and raises serious ethical issues.  Nonetheless, the court was very concerned by
the prejudice that Way would suffer by having the two cases heard
together.  In the final analysis, the
court gave Way a choice: Way could either have the cases tried together or Way
could withdraw from the earlier stipulation. 
In the latter event, Way would once again be in default, but Way would
have the right to seek to have the default vacated and the cases would not be
tried together (assuming that Way was relieved of default).  Plaintiff, of course, could oppose any motion
to vacate the default.  Without
hesitation, Way chose that option.  As a
result, the matters were ordered bifurcated, but the default was reinstated.  As expected, and as invited by the court, Way
brought the instant motion to set aside the terminating sanctions (and
presumably the default) and reinstate the answer.  Plaintiff opposes and Way has replied.
 
The gist of Way’s motion is that there was excusable neglect
regarding his prior conduct in that he claims he had no idea that plaintiff was
seeking to depose him or that the court had ordered him to be deposed.  Because of that, although he knew the case
was pending, he was unaware that adverse events were occurring and he did not
become aware until he learned of the default. 
Along those lines, he declared that things were being mailed to a prior
address.  True, he did live there at one
point, but he stated that he had moved from that location well before the
deposition motion was served.  Thus, he
says, he never received any of those mailings. 
But plaintiff did not just mail things to him.  Plaintiff also emailed things using the email
address that prior counsel represented was the correct email.  Way alleges, though, that this particular
email address is designed for use by his fans; he gets tons of emails to that
address and does not read any of them. 
As a result, although he does not deny that notices were emailed to that
address and that the address is one in his name, he states that he never
reviewed that address or the communications in it.  Finally, plaintiff also sent these pleadings
to Way’s business manager on the theory that the business manager would also
ensure Way was properly informed of proceedings.  Way does not address the business manager
other than to say that serving the business manager is not itself good service
(which is true).  At bottom, then, Way
argues that he was not deliberately ignoring the court, but rather was
excusably unaware of the court’s orders and the growing risk of default until
it was too late.  Further, he notes that
since the stipulation was signed, he has cooperated in discovery.
 
So that essentially brings us current.  The court is more than a little bit troubled
by this motion.  First, Way never deals
with the fact that he used the email he says he never uses to communicate with
prior counsel, who verified that the email was the proper way to reach
Way.  This strongly suggests to the court
that Way is not being fully forthright here. 
Further, Way was aware that the email in question is the way his counsel
told plaintiffs and the court to contact Way, yet Way never bothered to correct
that alleged mis-information.  Second,
the court will take Way at his word that he moved, but the burden is on him to
inform people that he moved and to give a forwarding address.  The burden is not on plaintiff (or the court)
to check and see if he moved.  The court
presumes, although it does not know, that none of the mail plaintiff sent was
returned as undeliverable or with any other indication that Way no longer lived
at the address in question.  Because Way
had a duty not to go off the grid without telling anyone or leaving a way to
contact him, it is hard for the court to see how plaintiff can be faulted.  Further, the court is a bit bothered by the
notion that Way knew that the litigation was ongoing but assumed that nothing
was happening even as trial was approaching. 
He certainly was doing nothing to prepare for trial.  But it is also not fully credible or
reasonable for him to think that plaintiff was ignoring the case as well.  That said, though, although Way is no
stranger to litigation (one of the related cases was actually tried in this
court), neither is he a lawyer and the court will not presume that he is fully
aware of what goes into discovery or preparing for trial.  Finally, Way all but ignores the business
manager.  Although the court does not
presume to know the precise relationship between Way and his manager, if the
title means anything it would mean that important information that comes to the
business manager would be brought to Way’s attention.  And legal documents, including orders that
include terminating sanctions, would seem to fall in that category.  Neither Way nor the manager actually declares
anything about whether there was such a channel of communication and whether
the manager gave Way actual notice of anything. 

 
That is important because Way seems to conflate two
different things: (1) technical service requirements; and (2) actual
knowledge.  Both are important, but they
are different.  Of course, plaintiff must
give technical service.  If plaintiff
fails to serve Way with an order, then the court has due process concerns about
holding Way accountable for not obeying the order.  But technical service is not the same as
knowledge.  If Way was served by mail at
his last address and he did not provide a Notice of Change of Address, that is
good service.  If Way’s counsel stated
that the proper way to serve Way was by email and gave the specific email
address, that is good service.  Here, the
court believes that there was proper technical service.  Again, the burden was on Way, not plaintiff
or the court, to let people know how to contact him, especially if there was a
change from the contact information given by prior counsel in the motion to
withdraw papers and Way knows he is self-represented.  But even if there is technical service, that
does not negate excusable neglect.  It
strikes the court as excusable that a lay person would not know of the
requirement to file a formal Change of Address form, for example.  But if there is actual knowledge, then the
excuse wears thin.  If one actually knows
what is going on and does nothing, relying instead on technicalities, one is
rolling dice.  If the person is right
about the technicalities, then congratulations because a hard ten was
rolled.  But if a six and a four come up,
then the bet loses; the house does not return the money because the shooter did
not fully appreciate the odds.  If one
does not have actual knowledge, then the excuse argument strengthens.
 
Here, Way has not explained: (1) why he never told anyone
how to reach him even though he was being sued; (2) why he communicated with
former counsel using the email address he says he never used; and (3) whether
his business manager actually told him about anything.  Plaintiff could also provide information as
to: (1) whether any of the mailings were returned as undeliverable or
undelivered; and (2) metadata indicating whether the emails sent to Way and his
business manager were (a) delivered and (b) opened.  The court will therefore CONTINUE this matter
to allow the parties to submit that information.  As to Way’s showing on (3), the court would
expect, at a minimum, a declaration under oath from both Way and the manager,
and the declarations from both ought to be detailed.  The manager ought to state whether he
received the communications and what, if anything, he did upon receipt.  If he claims never to have told Way about any
of this, he ought to explain why that is. 
The further submissions may be accompanied by a supplemental brief not
to exceed 10 pages in length (exclusive of exhibits).  The submissions will be simultaneous.  The court will discuss dates with the
parties.
 
There is a second question. 
Generally, a terminating sanction is appropriate only as a last
resort.  That occurs either when the
prejudice caused by the failure to abide prior orders is so prejudicial that
the prejudice simply cannot be cured any other way or when no lesser sanction
will compel compliance.  The court is
satisfied that its order striking the answer was, given the record before the
court, proper.  And, if there is no
excusable neglect then the still court believes that the order when made was
proper even on the enhanced record.  If
Way knew what was going on, he did deliberately ignore the court’s orders, even
as the court gave him multiple chances to cure the situation.  In that sense, the order was a good one, and
it is one that the court believes would stand up on appeal.  But (and here is the plot twist), that might
well no longer be the case.  Way has
demonstrated that he is now willing to participate in litigation.  He has sat for his deposition; he has
participated in discovery.  He states he
will be ready for trial when this case is to go to trial (which, for this case,
will likely not be on January 21, 2025, even if the motion is granted because
that would be the trial date for the other case in which Way is not in
default).  So, the question is whether a
party who has a change of heart after default is entered based on a terminating
sanction is entitled to have the default vacated due to that change of heart.  The court has not really found any case law
directly on point addressing that question, but the parties may address it in
the supplemental briefing.  The court
suspects that the answer will be that it has some discretion, but there is
discretion and there is discretion.  In
some instances, discretion is broad; in others, it is tightly constrained.
 
And, finally, there is the strong public policy of
adjudicating things on the merits.  Here,
the court cannot help but note that plaintiff sought $10 million—a number that
apparently was reported in the press. 
That is a lot of money.  Before
the court considers imposing a default judgment like that, the court would want
to think long and hard about fairness and due process (which would include
being heard) and the balance of hardships between the parties.  Of course, that number is based on the
egregious nature of the acts alleged.  In
the default context, the acts are established and they are indeed very, very
bad.  So the court is not commenting on
the number in a derogatory way.  It is
only to say it is a big number.  And, for
precisely the same reason, if Way did not in fact commit the torts of which he
is accused, justice is not served by entering a judgment that says he did.  The parties can address this as well.
 
The court notes that if the motion is granted, it will be
conditioned upon payment of the fees requested by plaintiff within 15
days.  Frankly, given the circumstances,
Way should not have opposed that alternative. 
The court might also inquire of the plaintiff what, if any, prejudice
plaintiff faces by granting the order (other than having to try the case) and
what can be done to mitigate it.  Along
those lines, plaintiff ought to focus more on things other than issue sanctions
and more like a potential one-way re-opening of discovery for a limited purpose
(because while plaintiff could not take discovery against Way if Way is to be
believed, nothing stopped Way from taking discovery of plaintiff).
 
For now, what the court will say is that the current trial
date will stand, but the case that will be tried is the one not at issue
in this motion.  The trial on this case,
if the motion is granted, will have to be set at that time.