 Case Number:  22SMCV00398    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  I The motion for sanctions is DENIED. 
 
As plaintiff appears to recognize, CCP section 128.7 has
certain requirements.  This statute deals
with papers presented to the court. 
Further, the statute has a 21-day “safe harbor” provision.  That means that the moving party must give
notice of the motion 21 days before the motion is filed to allow the opposing
party the opportunity to withdraw the pleading and thereby avoid the
sanctions.  The court sees no evidence
that the motion was served on defendants 21 days before it was filed.  The court notes that it is not enough to
write a letter to the other side warning them of an intent to file; the motion
itself must be served.  Because of that
problem, the motion must be DENIED. 
 
Plaintiff is also bringing a motion under the Discovery Act,
however.  The Discovery Act does not have
a safe-harbor requirement.  It applies
where one party abuses the discovery process. 
Where it is triggered, the party forced to bring (or oppose) a discovery
motion can obtain sanctions in an amount equal to the fees and costs incurred
in bringing or opposing the motion to compel or to compel further
responses.  The problem is that here,
other than the filing fee, plaintiff has no fees or costs that can be awarded
under the statute.  Plaintiff is
unrepresented by counsel, so no attorneys’ fees can be awarded.  The amount of sanctions sought bears no
relationship to the fees and costs incurred in bringing the motion.  Further, such a motion must be brought within
45 days of the date of the improper discovery response.  If it is not brought within that time, the
court has no power to rule upon it.  (Sexton
v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403.)  
 
The real problem, the court infers, is that plaintiff
believes that the defense is essentially papering her with abusive discovery
and abusively short deadlines.  The
record as presented is not sufficient for the court to make that
determination.  To make it, the court
would need to see the specific discovery, a specific request by plaintiff for
more time, and the specific response. 
There are plainly possible abuses. 
If a party serves 400 special interrogatories, 400 requests for
admission, and 400 requests for production and demands full responses and
compliance within the 30 days allowed by the Code with no extensions, that
would certainly be abusive and the court could deal with it accordingly by way
of protective orders.  (The court made
the above numbers up.)  And that is the
problem here.  If plaintiff is being
overwhelmed by abusive discovery, she can seek a protective order from the
court that would require that the defense engage in reasonable discovery.  As the matter sits now, though, the court cannot
say that defendant has engaged in abusive behavior (or that it has not), and no
protective order is being sought in any event.
 
That leaves one last item. 
Plaintiff contends that the defense will not turn over insurance
information.  If such is the case, that
is wrongful.  The defense has a duty to
respond to discovery seeking to learn of insurance coverage or potential
coverage.  Of course, it must be properly
requested, but if it is requested properly, there is no privacy objection or
the like that can be raised.  As a matter
of minimal fairness, within 10 days from today the defense will provide to
plaintiff the information required in the form interrogatories and the
appropriate declaration pages of any insurance that does or potentially might
cover the allegations made in this case. 

 
The court also reminds the parties of the upcoming trial and
final status conference.  Given that the
parties have been ordered to communicate only in writing, the court hopes that
the parties are working diligently and cooperatively together to put together
the FSC materials that are required.