 Case Number:  24SMCV03537    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion to strike a declaration.  It stems from an action brought by plaintiff
against defendants Irvin and Zytko.  On
October 25, 2024, defendant Irvin filed a declaration attaching certain emails
objecting to service.  Plaintiff moves to
strike those declarations as improper. 
Plaintiff contends that Irvin is playing games regarding service.  The court takes no immediate position on the
service issue, but agrees that filing a declaration is no way to attack
it.  An attack must by made via a motion
to quash, which was not done here. 
Plaintiff also argues that because Irvin filed a declaration, Irvin has
made a general appearance.  
 
The court strongly urges the parties to take a step
back.  Notwithstanding the multiple
declarations by Irvin, plaintiff is not acting as a scofflaw worthy of the
derision heaped upon plaintiff by Irvin. 
At the same time, it is fair to say that plaintiff has hardly been nice
to Irvin.  The court suggests the
following.  It is plain that Irvin (and
Zytko) have actual knowledge of this case. 
The court proposes all parties agreeing that service is effective as of
today.  Although Zytko likely will not be
at the hearing, the court’s hope would be that Zytko agrees to this
proposal.  Defendants will have 30 days
from today to answer or otherwise respond to the complaint.  The purpose of service has been fulfilled:
defendants know of the lawsuit and its basis. 
(Fireman’s Fund Ins. Co. v. Sparks Construction, Inc. (2004) 114
Cal.App.4th 1135.)  The court is not
saying whether the declaration by Irvin constitutes a general appearance—which
it might—at least as to the declarant. 
But wouldn’t it make more sense just to go forward to the merits?
 
If, as Irvin states, the lawsuit is without merit and
defendants owe no money under the lease, then they should move to discovery and
the merits so that they can obtain a formal judgment so stating.  On the other hand, if defendants are in
violation, then plaintiff is entitled to a judgment and all that delay will do
is to give plaintiff prejudgment interest at 10% per year.  And if the problem is that plaintiff is
trying to win by default without giving any real notice (as Irvin seems to
claim), that effort has been foiled, for notice has been given and defendants
are aware of the suit and able to defend themselves.
 
The parties will find this court to be an inhospitable
environment if things continue as they are. 
All parties would be well advised not to press the issue but rather to
go forward as the law intends.  If they
do so, they will find that the court is willing to scrupulously enforce
everyone’s rights, ensure that due process is afforded to all, and do its level
best to end the case with a just result. 