 Case Number:  24PSCV01994    Hearing Date:   October 28, 2024    Dept:  H Rosales
v. OC Auto Exchange, et al., Case
No. 24PSCV01994
ORDER ON MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION


Defendant OC Auto Exchange dba LA Auto
Exchange’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED. The Court orders the case
stayed, pending completion of the arbitration.
Background
Plaintiff Randy Rosales (“Plaintiff”) alleges as
follows:
Plaintiff purchased a 2016
Cadillac ATS, VIN No. 1G6AA5RX4G0105443 (“subject vehicle”)
from OC Auto Exchange dba LA Auto (sued as OC Auto Exchange dba LA Auto
Exchange West Covina) (“OCX”). OCX’s salesperson told Plaintiff that the
subject vehicle had not been in any prior accidents and did not have any
structural damage. On February 25, 2024, Plaintiff took the subject vehicle to
another dealership to trade it in and learned that the subject vehicle had, in
fact, been in a prior accident and sustained structural damage.
On June 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint,
asserting causes of action against OCX, Great American Insurance Company and
Does 1-50 for:
1.       Violation of the Consumer Legal Remedies Act,
2.       Fraud—Misrepresentation,
3.       Fraud—Negligent Misrepresentation,
4.       Fraud—Nondisclosure, and
5.       Claim Against Bond.
 
Pending before the Court is OCX’s
motion to compel arbitration. For the reasons stated herein, the motion is
granted.


 
Legal Standard
“[A]rbitration
is generally favored under both the FAA and California law.” (Higgins v.
Superior Court (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1247; see also Engalla v. Permanente Med. Grp., Inc.
(1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-972 [“California law incorporates many of the basic
policy objectives contained in the Federal Arbitration Act, including a
presumption in favor of arbitrability and a requirement that an arbitration
agreement must be enforced on the basis of state law standards that apply to
contracts in general”].) “[U]nder both the FAA and California law, arbitration
agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such grounds as
exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract.” (Higgins, supra, 40 Cal.App.4th at 1247 [quotation marks and citation
omitted].)
Generally,
on a motion to compel arbitration, the court must grant the motion unless it
finds either (1) no written agreement to arbitrate exists; (2) the right to
compel arbitration has been waived; (3) grounds exist for revocation of the
agreement; or (4) litigation is pending that may render the arbitration
unnecessary or create conflicting rulings on common issues. (Code Civ. Proc., §
1281.2; Condee v.
Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88
Cal.App.4th 215, 218-219.)
The
party seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence
of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence. (Hotels Nevada v. L.A. Pacific Center, Inc.
(2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 754, 761.) The burden then shifts to the opposing party
to prove by a preponderance of the evidence a defense to enforcement (e.g.,
fraud, unconscionability, etc.) (Id.)
“In these summary proceedings, the trial court sits as a trier of fact,
weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as
well as oral testimony received at the court’s discretion, to reach a final
determination.” (Engalla, supra, 15
Cal.4th at 972.)
 
Discussion
OCX
moves the Court for an order compelling Plaintiff to arbitrate this action
before the American Arbitration Association (“AAA”) and to stay this action
pending completion of arbitration.
OCX’s
authorized agent and Custodian of Records Masam Aslanpour (“Aslanpour”)
represents, and/or the attached exhibits reflect, as follows:
On
or about September 18, 2022, Plaintiff and OCX entered into a “Retail
Installment Sale Contract—Simple Finance Charge (with Arbitration Provision)” (the
“Contract”) concerning Plaintiff’s purchase of the subject vehicle. (Aslanpour
Decl., ¶ 2, Exh. 1A [FN]).
Although OCX does not have a complete copy of the Contract as it pertains to
Plaintiff, the Contract used in OCX’s transaction with Plaintiff is the same
retail installment sale contract that OCX used for its other transactions at
the time of the transaction—i.e., “Form No. 553-CA-ARB (REV. 7/16),” which is
listed at the bottom of the second page. (Id., ¶ 2, Exh. 1B.) “Form No.
553-CA-ARB (REV. 7/16)” contains an arbitration provision which states, in
relevant part, as follows: “Any claim or dispute, whether in contract, tort,
statute or otherwise (including the interpretation and scope of this
Arbitration Provision, and the arbitrability of the claim or dispute), between
you and us or our employees, agents, successors or assigns, which arises out of
or relates to your credit application, purchase or condition of this vehicle,
this contract or any resulting transaction or relationship (including any such
relationship with third parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at your
or our election, be resolved by neutral binding arbitration. . . You may choose
the American Arbitration Association 1633 Broadway, 10th Floor, New
York New York, 10019 (www.adr.org), or any other organization to conduct the
arbitration subject to our approval . . .” (Id.) 
Plaintiff,
in opposition, only provides a conclusory statement that he “does not recall
signing an arbitration agreement in this instance.” (Opp., 2:18.) This
statement, however, is not supported by a declaration. The Court determines
that OCX has proven by a preponderance of the evidence that a valid arbitration
agreement exists. 
Plaintiff next claims that he is entitled to elect
his choice of JAMS as the arbitrator. Not so. The above language expressly
states that Plaintiff is permitted to choose a non-AAA arbitrator subject to
OCX’s approval, which has not been given. In any event, “[w]here the
parties ‘clearly and unmistakably’ delegate issues of arbitrability to the
arbitrator, the arbitrator, not the court, decides such issues as the scope of
the arbitration agreement.” (Chin v. Advanced Fresh Concepts Franchise Corp.
(2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 704, 709.) 
OCX’s motion is granted. The Court stays the instant
case, pending completion of the arbitration. 
 

