On April 19, 2022, Plaintiff Eva Niño filed the operative Complaint against Defendants El Monte Veterans Apartments, LP (“LP”), El Monte Veterans Apartments, LLC, and Mercy Housing CalWest for (1) retaliatory eviction and anti-harassment, (2) retaliatory eviction, (3) declaratory relief, (4) disability discrimination, (5) violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act, (6) disability discrimination, (7) disability discrimination, and (8) intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”).  All Defendants now seek judgment on the pleadings because they contend that this action is barred by res judicata to the extent the parties, in an unlawful detainer action, entered into a stipulated judgment that fully resolved the subject claims.“A defendant may move for judgment on the pleadings on the ground that the complaint does not state facts sufficient to state a cause of action against that defendant. A motion for judgment on the pleadings ‘is equivalent to a demurrer . . . .’ Leave to amend ‘is properly denied if the facts and nature of plaintiffs’ claims are clear and under the substantive law, no liability exists.’ ”  (Templo v. State¿(2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 730, 735.)  Res judicata precludes the relitigation of a cause of action only if (1) the decision in the prior proceeding is final and on the merits; (2) the present action is on the same cause of action as the prior proceeding; and (3) the parties in the present action or parties in privity with them were parties to the prior proceeding.”  (Zevnik v. Superior Court (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 76, 82; see also Ferraro v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 509, 541 n.21 [distinguishing between claim preclusion (res judicata) and issue preclusion (collateral estoppel)].)  “Res judicata bars not only issues that were raised in the prior suit but related issues that could have been raised.”  (Villacres v. ABM Indus. Inc. (2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 562, 569, 117.)To determine whether the same causes of action are asserted, courts employ the primary rights theory.  (Brinton v. Bankers Pension Services, Inc. (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 550, 557.)  Under the primary rights theory, the invasion of one primary right gives rise to a single cause of action, which consists of (1) a primary right possessed by the plaintiff, (2) a corresponding primary duty owed by the defendant, and (3) a delict or wrong by the defendant which consists in a breach of the primary right and corresponding duty.  (Ibid.)  At bottom, a cause of action is based on the harm suffered, as opposed to the legal theory articulated.  (Ibid.) After Plaintiff filed this action, LP filed an unlawful detainer action (22WCUD01472) against Niño.  Therein, Niño asserted the following affirmative defenses: (1) retaliatory eviction; (2) discrimination for failure to provide reasonable accommodation; (3) disability discrimination; and (4) violation of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing.  The parties in 22WCUD01472 entered into a stipulated judgment that stated: “Complete Pleadings. Defendant and Plaintiff, and each of them, hereby declare, admit, and affirm that any and all matters that were pleaded in their respective pleadings in the Action, or that could have been pleaded in the Action, have been fully litigated and determined in the Action.” The stipulated judgment stated that Niño would vacate the premises and that LP would tender $1,000 to Niño.  It also states: “Reasonable Accommodations. Defendant acknowledges that Plaintiff has considered Defendant's alleged disabilities, if any, and Plaintiff has engaged in a meaningful dialogue regarding said disabilities and reasonable accommodations requested and/or considered. The UD Parties expressly acknowledge and agree that the settlement terms reached and contained herein are deemed to be the reasonable accommodation(s) for said disabilities. Plaintiff understands and agrees that it will continue to observe and comply with any and all discrimination, reasonable accommodation, and fair housing federal, state, and local laws. Plaintiff may not attempt to absolve a landlord's ongoing obligation to provide reasonable accommodations to qualified individuals with disabilities pursuant to California Code of Regulations section 12176. Plaintiff is subject to federal, state, and local laws for any future violations.” It further states: “Full Defense. This Agreement may be pled as a full and complete defense to, and may be used as a basis for, an injunction against, any action, suit or other proceeding that may be prosecuted, instituted or attempted by Defendant or Defendant's counsel, and may be so plead whether or not a judgment pursuant to this Agreement has been vacated and/or a dismissal having been filed.” Here, the same causes of action present in the instant matter either actually were or could have been asserted in the UD matter.  Indeed, both cases assert claims or affirmative defenses arising from retaliatory eviction, disability discrimination, and failure to provide reasonable accommodations.  That different legal theories might be at issue is not determinative because, as mentioned before, it is the ultimate cause of action that is at issue.   Further, Niño and LP are identical parties between the suits, and while El Monte Veterans Apartments, LLC, and Mercy Housing CalWest were not parties in the UD matter, they are apparently privies as all claims arise from the parties’ joint interest as landlords or managers of the subject premises and the stipulated judgment states that it “shall inure to the benefit of Plaintiff and each of Plaintiff's heirs, administrators, representatives, executors, successors, and/or assigns.”  (See also Bernhard v. Bank of America Nat. Trust & Savings Ass’n (1942) 19 Cal.2d 807, 811 [“A privy is one who, after rendition of the judgment, has acquired an interest in the subject matter affected by the judgment through or under one of the parties, as by inheritance, succession, or purchase.”].)   The Opposition primarily argues that the stipulated judgment was meant only to apply to the UD action and there is not a final ruling on the merits of Plaintiff’s affirmative defenses in the UD action because the stipulated judgment fails to specifically resolve those claims. These arguments are contradicted by the plain language of the judgment that states all causes of action that were pleaded between the parties—which would include Niño’s affirmative defenses—were fully resolved and that LP was to tender $1,000 to Niño.  Also, the judgment acknowledges Niño’s disability and states that its terms were meant to render a reasonable accommodation.  There is also language that the stipulated judgment could be used as a full defense as to further action by Niño.  Because of the aforementioned provisions, this case is distinguishable from, for example Pelletier v. Alameda Yacht Harbor (1986) 188 Cal.App.3d 1551, 1557 and Landeros v. Pankey  (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 1167, 1172.  Considering the totality of the language of the stipulated judgment, the Court finds that all of the instant claims have been resolved and are, therefore, barred by res judicata.   Plaintiff also argues that “Because there was no intent in the UD to settle this case, the provision on which Landlords rely should be stricken or disregarded. Civ. Code §3399 (mistake in contract can be reformed to reflect the true intent of the parties); §1640 (“When, through fraud, mistake, or accident, a written contract fails to express the real intention of the parties, such intention is to be regarded, and the erroneous parts of the writing disregarded.”); Hess v. Ford Motor Co., 27 Cal.4th at 524-27 (settlement agreement can be reformed to reflect the intent of the parties).”“Reformation is an equitable remedy the essential purpose of which is to ensure the contract, as reformed, reflects the parties’ mutual intention. (Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 872, 908, 153 Cal.Rptr.3d 546; Jones v. First American Title Ins. Co. (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 381, 389, 131 Cal.Rptr.2d 859.) In reforming the written agreement, a court may transpose[ ], reject[ ], or suppl[y] words [citation], but has no power to make new contracts for the parties [citation]. Rather, the court may only reform the writing to conform with the mutual understanding of the parties at the time they entered into it, if such an understanding exists. [Citation.]  (Hess v. Ford Motor Co. (2002) 27 Cal.4th 516, 524, 117 Cal.Rptr.2d 220, 41 P.3d 46.) Reformation may be had for a mutual mistake or for the mistake of one party which the other knew or suspected, but in either situation the purpose of the remedy is to make the written contract truly express the intention of the parties. (Lemoge Electric v. County of San Mateo (1956) 46 Cal.2d 659, 663, 297 P.2d 638.)”  (Komorsky v. Farmers Ins. Exch. (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 960, 974 (internal quotes omitted.)Plaintiff’s counsel states in a declaration that “On September 21, 2023 I took the deposition of one of defendant landlords’ (Landlords) staff members in their second unlawful detainer action (UD) against plaintiff (Tenant). Landlords were represented by Denice Gaucin of Kimball, Tyree and St. John in that UD. During a break, off the record, Ms. Gaucin and I discussed possible settlement of the UD. Ms. Gaucin made it clear that she had no authority to settle Tenant’s affirmative case and that any settlement agreement would be limited to the UD. We had further settlement discussions after the deposition and before trial that ultimately settled the UD (UD Stipulation). Ms. Gaucin never indicated that settlement discussions covered anything other than the UD. Ms. Gaucin and I understood that the provisions in the UD Stipulation that followed page 2 were simply boilerplate recitals that ensured Tenant would move from her rental unit on time without seeking extraordinary relief to delay her move-out at the last moment.”Here, this extrinsic evidence is not to be considered on a motion for judgment on the pleadings.  Between the Complaint and Request for Judicial Notice, there is nothing to indicate the propriety of reformation. Plaintiff also requests that either the stipulated judgment or any ensuing judgment of dismissal herein be set aside under Code Civ. Proc. § 473(b), but, at the very least, this request cannot be made via opposition briefing for the instant Motion. In sum, because res judicata applies based on the stipulated judgment in the UD matter, the Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is granted.  Whether leave to amend should be granted to plead reformation is to be argued.The Request for Judicial Notice is granted.Moving parties to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 