 Case Number:  24CHCV00543    Hearing Date:   July 19, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 7/19/24
Case #24CHCV00543
 
DEMURRER TO THE
FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Demurrer filed on 6/7/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Lori Johnson
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs Madeline Depin and Raymond
Depin
NOTICE: ok
 
Demurrer is to the entire First Amended Complaint:
            1.  Breach of Contract
            2.  Financial Elder Abuse
            3.  Declaratory Relief
 
RULING: The demurrer is sustained with 30 days
leave to amend.  
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of the purchase of a home in
Valencia, California by Defendant Lori Johnson (Defendant) with funds partially
obtained from her parents, Plaintiffs Madeline Depin and Raymond Depin
(Plaintiffs).  
 
Plaintiffs allege that in or around April 2019, Defendant
and Plaintiffs entered into an oral agreement by which Plaintiffs and Defendant
would pool their funds to purchase a home where they would live together for an
indefinite period of time.  (FAC
¶5).  Plaintiffs also allege that
Defendant promised them that she would repay them, on demand, the amount they
contributed to the purchase of the property. 
(FAC ¶6).  In the original
complaint, Plaintiffs alleged that Defendant promised she would transfer an ownership
interest in the property to them in proportion to their contributions to
purchase the property.  (Complaint
¶7).  In the First Amended Complaint,
Plaintiffs allege that they and Defendant created an oral partnership to own
the property.  (First Amended Complaint
¶7).  Additionally, Plaintiffs allege
that they agreed to pay for half of the mortgage payments, property taxes,
utilities and HOA fees.  (FAC ¶15).  Plaintiffs and Defendant moved into the
property in August of 2019.  (FAC ¶14).  In November of 2023, Plaintiffs moved out of
the property to live with their son in Massachusetts.  (FAC ¶15). 

 
Plaintiffs allege that despite their demands for
repayment of the funds contributed to the property, Defendant has refused to
repay any portion.  (FAC ¶¶18-21).  Plaintiffs also allege that Defendant
committed financial elder abuse by hiding the fact that she never intended to
repay them or give them an ownership interest in the house.  (FAC ¶¶27-28, 30-31).  Plaintiffs also seek a declaration of their
rights under the alleged oral partnership agreement with Defendant.  (FAC ¶¶37-39).
 
On 2/22/24, Plaintiffs filed this action against
Defendant for: (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Financial Elder Abuse and (3)
Declaratory Relief.  After meet and
confer efforts regarding deficiencies Defendant perceived in the complaint, on
4/26/24, Plaintiffs filed the subject First Amended Complaint alleging the same
three causes of action.  Although no
declaration has been filed attesting to the fact as is required, Defendant
claims that her counsel’s efforts to contact Plaintiffs’ counsel to meet and
confer regarding the deficiencies in the First Amended Complaint were
unsuccessful.  (See Demurrer,
p.3:15-17); CCP 430.41(a)(3).
 
Therefore, on 6/7/24, Defendant filed and served the
instant demurrer to the entire First Amended Complaint.  Plaintiffs have opposed the demurrer and
Defendant has filed a reply to the opposition. 

 
ANALYSIS
 
The opposition requests leave to file a Second Amended
Complaint which withdraws allegations regarding a partnership between
Plaintiffs and Defendant and which re-alleges the terms of the contract with
Defendant as alleged in the original complaint. 
(See Opposition, p.1:18-p.2:18, p.3:19-p.4:3).    
 
The alleged oral partnership allegations permeate the
entire First Amended Complaint and each of the causes of action alleged
therein.  (FAC ¶¶7, 13, 16, 17, 23,
28-29, 31, 36-39).  As such, the
withdrawal of such allegations effects each cause of action alleged in the
First Amended Complaint.  Despite the
foregoing, Plaintiffs confusingly request that the Court overrule the demurrer
as to the 1st and 2nd causes of action and allow them to
withdraw/amend their 3rd cause of action without indicating whether
they concede that the demurrer as to that cause of action should be
sustained.  (See Opposition, p.6:9-19).
  
 
Additionally, to the extent that Plaintiffs contend that
Defendant is estopped from arguing the statute of frauds defeats their breach
of (oral) contract cause of action, Plaintiffs have failed to allege sufficient
facts to support the claim of estoppel.
 
Plaintiffs have also failed to plead sufficient specific
facts to support the fraud which allegedly underlies their financial elder
abuse cause of action.  (FAC ¶¶27-28).  Since the terms of the alleged contract are
not sufficiently pled, it is not clear how, when, where, etc. Defendant
allegedly hid her intent not to repay Plaintiffs and/or to not provide them an
ownership interest in the property.  Similarly,
Plaintiffs have not pled sufficient facts to support a finding of undue
influence.  Plaintiffs conclude, without
supporting facts, that Defendant “manipulated” them “by use of excessive
persuasion” “by leading them to believe she was in need of funds to purchase
the Valencia Property…”  (FAC ¶31).
 
CONCLUSION
 
The demurrer is sustained.  Due to the liberal policy of allowing leave
to amend and since this is the first time Plaintiffs’ pleading is before the
Court, Plaintiffs are given an opportunity to try to cure the defects in their
First Amended Complaint.  
 
A Second Amended Complaint is due to be filed and served
within 30 days.  
 