 Case Number:  23SMCV03493    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           So. Cal.
Injured Workers LLC, et al., v. Amigo Mgmt LLC, et al.
CASE NO.:                23SMCV03493
MOTION:                  Motion
to Stay Proceedings
HEARING DATE:   9/10/2024
 
Legal
Standard
 
“Trial courts generally have the
inherent power to stay proceedings in the interests of justice and to promote
judicial efficiency.”¿(Freiberg v. City of Mission Viejo¿(1995) 33 Cal.
App. 4th 1484, 1489.) The trial court has the authority to control litigation
before it in order to ensure the orderly administration of justice. (CCP §§
128, 187;¿Rutherford v. Owens-Illinois, Inc.¿(1997) 16 Cal.4th 953, 967
[“It is also well established that courts have fundamental inherent equity,
supervisory, and administrative powers, as well as inherent power to control
litigation before them.”].) 
 
“The Fifth Amendment of the United
States Constitution includes a provision that ‘[no] person . . . shall be
compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself, . . .’¿
Although the specific reference is to criminal cases, the Fifth Amendment
protection ‘has been broadly extended to a point where now it is available even
to a person appearing only as a witness in any kind of proceeding where
testimony can be compelled.’ (Gonzales v. Superior Court¿(1980) 117
Cal.App.3d 57, 62). The Fifth Amendment is codified in Evidence Code section
940, which provides: ‘To the extent that such privilege exists under the
Constitution of the United States or the State of California, a person has a
privilege to refuse to disclose any matter that may tend to incriminate him.’
There is no question that the privilege against self-incrimination may be
asserted by civil defendants who face possible criminal prosecution based on
the same facts as the civil action. (Pacers, Inc. v. Superior Court¿(1984)
162 Cal.App.3d 686, 688-689.) ‘All matters which are privileged against
disclosure upon the trial under the law of this state are privileged against
disclosure through any discovery procedure.’ (CCP, § 2016(b).).” (Brown v.
Superior Court¿(1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 701, 708.)¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿ 
“Even where the civil discovery
process is directed against an individual defendant who is also a defendant in
a related criminal case, the Ninth Circuit has held that ‘[t]he
Constitution¿does not ordinarily require a stay of civil proceedings pending the
outcome of criminal proceedings.’ [Citation.]¿…[T]he question of whether a
civil proceeding should be stayed pending the outcome of a parallel criminal
proceeding often rests not on the constitutional issue of self-incrimination,
but on the issue of abuse of discretion. ‘In the absence of substantial
prejudice to the rights of the parties involved, parallel [civil and criminal]
proceedings are unobjectionable under our jurisprudence.’ ‘Nevertheless, a
court may decide in its discretion to stay civil proceedings . . . ‘when the
interests of justice¿seem[] to require such action.’” (Avant! Corp. v.
Superior Court¿(2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 876, 885, citations
omitted.)¿¿¿¿ 
¿ 
“[C]ourts¿must also consider the
interests of the plaintiff in civil litigation where the defendant is exposed
to parallel criminal prosecution. Plaintiffs are entitled to an expeditious and
fair resolution of their civil claims without being subjected to unwarranted
surprise. Among the myriad purposes of the civil discovery statutes is to
safeguard against surprise and gamesmanship, and to prevent delay. . ..¿‘The
fact that a man is indicted cannot give him a blank check to block all civil
litigation on the same or related underlying subject matter. Justice is meted
out in both civil and criminal litigation.’ (Avant! Corp.,¿supra, 79
Cal.App.4th at 882.)¿  
 
The court must also balance those
interests with the interest of the courts and public in fairly and
expeditiously disposing of civil cases, and in efficiently utilizing judicial
resources. (Gov. Code, § 68607; CCP, § 128(a); Cal.¿Stds. Jud. Admin., § 2.1.)
Staying civil discovery to await the outcome of a related criminal case might
benefit the litigants and does not implicate constitutional issues. (Avant!
Corp.,¿supra, 79 Cal.App.4th at 882.) However, courts are guided by the
strong principle that any elapsed time other than that reasonably required for
pleadings and discovery is unacceptable and should be eliminated. (Cal.¿Stds.
Jud. Admin., § 2.) Courts must control the pace of litigation, reduce delay,
and maintain a current docket¿so as to¿enable the just, expeditious, and
efficient resolution of cases.” (Fuller v. Superior Court¿(2001) 87
Cal.App.4th 299, 306-07.)¿¿ 
¿ 
Possible accommodations include,
but are not limited to: a) “stay the civil proceeding until disposition of the
related criminal prosecution”; b) “allow the civil defendant to invoke the
privilege against self-incrimination, even if doing so may limit the
defendant’s ability to put on a defense”; c) “conferring an immunity on the
party invoking the¿privilege”; and d) “precluding a litigant who claims the
constitutional privilege against self-incrimination in discovery from waiving
the privilege and testifying at trial to matters upon which the privilege had
been asserted.” (Fuller,¿supra, 87 Cal.App.4th at 307.)¿“Each of these
procedural tools is devised based on the circumstances of the¿particular case.
‘The alleviation of tension between constitutional rights has been treated as
within the province of a court’s discretion in seeking to assure the sound
administration of justice.’” (Id.)
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendants/Cross-Defendants/Cross-Complainants
Injured Workers Medical Group, Vrijesh S. Tantuwaya, M.D., Inc. and Vrijesh S.
Tantuwaya, M.D. (the “Tantuwaya Defendants”) move for an order staying the
continued prosecution of this action, including the related cross-action by Cross-Complainant
Funding4Doctors against the Tantuwaya Defendants, and staying all civil
discovery directed to the Tantuwaya Defendants until the completion of the
pending criminal action against Vrijesh S. Tantuwaya, M.D., in the matter of
the People of the State of California v. David Wayne Fish et. al. OCSC
Case No. 24CF1948 (OCDA WC21090030) (the “Criminal Action”).
 
The Tantuwaya Defendants’ request
for judicial notice is GRANTED. The Tantuwaya Defendants’ objections are
OVERRULED.
 
The Tantuwaya Defendants face
possible criminal prosecution based on the same nucleus of facts as the civil
action. Plaintiffs SCIW and Brill’s FAC alleges breach of certain agreements
between SCIW and medical groups like IWMG and Tantuyawa Inc. SCIW was formed to
provide management and billing services to medical groups like IWMG and
Tantuyawa, Inc., which each provided medical care to patients with industrial,
occupational or other injuries or illness arising out of and in the scope of
employment or for patients suffering personal injury from accidents, as well as
ancillary services. (FAC ¶ 31; FACC ¶ 9.) SCIW, Funding4Doctors, IWMG,
Tantuwaya Inc. and Dr. Tantuwaya, respectively, each seek in this action either
to recover, or to defend against recovery of, sums allegedly due from collected
receivables generated through workers’ compensation medical services. (Krieger
Decl. ¶¶ 12-15; FAC ¶¶ 81-85, 94, 135; Funding4Doctor’s Cross-Complaint (“F4DCC”)
¶ 54; FACC ¶ 112.) The Tantuwaya Defendants’ First Amended Cross-Complaint (FACC)
alleges that David Fish (“Fish”) and SCIW unlawfully referred ancillary
services to unknowing patients and doctors of IWMG, without a disclosure that
SCIW had a financial interest in these services, or that Fish was suspended
from working in the California Workers’ Compensation system. (FACC ¶¶ 125-128.)
Plaintiff SCIW and its principal, Fish, also risk criminal liability and may
assert Fifth Amendment privileges against discovery in this action. Cross-Complainant/Cross-Defendant
RP Dunnum also supports a stay.
 
The Tantuwaya Defendants might face
substantial prejudice in this action if discovery is allowed to continue
against them while Dr. Tantuwaya asserts his Fifth Amendment rights. Tantuwaya
parties contend that no one else can testify or provide evidence on behalf of
IWMG and Tantuwaya Inc. except Dr. Tantuwaya. However, they do not provide any
substantial evidence of such facts. For instance, Dr. Tantuwaya does not
declare that he has or intends to assert a Fifth Amendment privilege in
discovery for this Action. Moving Defendants only pose the possibility “if” Dr.
Tantuwaya refuses to testify or give evidence defending the FAC and F4D cross
complaint. Further, the Tantuwaya Defendants do not provide any foundation for
their assertion that no one else could testify on behalf of Dr. Tantuwaya. While
both facts are credible, the moving defendants should have provided
declarations to this effect.  Finally, the
corporate entities do not have a Fifth Amendment right.
 
If such evidence were provided, Dr.
Tantuwaya would show prejudice to himself and possibly the corporate defendants.
Dr. Tantuwaya’s invocation of the privilege against self-incrimination would
likely frustrate, prolong, and complicate the party’s pursuit of discovery from
IWMG and Tantuwaya Inc. as well as pose a substantial obstacle to IWMG and
Tantuwaya Inc.’s delivery of comprehensive responses. Moreover, the same holds
true for the other indicted parties in this action. In the interim period, the
criminal matter(s) may practically resolve multiple factual and/or liability matters
in this action. Thus, the Court and the parties may avoid the expense of
resolving numerous discovery disputes by waiting for the completion of the
pending criminal actions. A stay of the entire action would therefore promote
the efficient use of judicial resources.
 
The opposing parties do not show
prejudice which outweighs the above interests. They only present the typical
prejudice to the non-indicted parties presented by any stay: it will delay
recovery. F4D and its principal Marchant claim to have advanced over $4M
towards IWMG, for the benefit of Dr. Tantuwaya. F4D claims prejudice if it is forced
to wait years, with uncertain outcomes in the criminal proceedings, before
pursuing their right to collect on account of the $4.5M in advanced funds. F4D
also speculates that Dr. Tantuwaya may dissipate all the assets he currently
holds, which F4D contends is approximately $2.5M. F4D does not point to the
potential loss of evidence or other such substantial prejudice resulting from a
delay. While complainants are entitled to an expeditious and fair resolution,
these interests do not outweigh the above interests in an efficient,
non-duplicative resolution of the entire action. 
 
Accordingly, the court is inclined
to GRANT the stay as to the entire action if additional information was
presented to the Court.
 
F4D requests, if the Court is
inclined to stay the proceeding, that the Court permit F4D to finalize the
pleadings and protect its rights, including:
 
• that Funding is permitted leave
to file an amended cross-complaint against IWMG/Dr.
Tantuwaya, as well as Dunnam, for fraud, and to include
SCIW/Brill, and add non-
party David Wayne Fish as cross-defendants in the amended
cross-complaint; and 
• Funding is permitted to file a
renewed motion for preliminary injunction against
IWMG/Dr. Tantuwaya to enjoin the dissipation of any funds
collected and to be
collected on account of Agreements 1-30.
 
F4D does not show cause for either
order to issue. Notably, F4D has not filed either motion. F4D has not presented
the proposed pleading, what new facts were discovered to justify a new
pleading, or when such facts were discovered. (CCP §§
473(a)(1); CRC, Rule 3.1324.) F4D does not explain on what basis they
will renew their motion for a preliminary injunction. (CCP § 526(a).) For
example, F4D does not say what new facts or circumstances might justify an
injunction. If there are such circumstances, including a risk of irreparable
harm, F4D could have filed such a motion for the Court’s consideration prior to
this hearing. Thus, the Court is not inclined to grant such relief in
opposition to the stay motion. 