  Case Number:  22SMCV02907    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Alimo LLC, v. Lax,
et al.
CASE NO.:                22SMCV02907
MOTION:                  Motion
to Continue Trial and Related Dates
HEARING DATE:   9/10/2024
 
Legal
Standard
 
Pursuant to California Rules of
Court (CRC), rule 3.1332(a), “To ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases,
the dates assigned for a trial are firm. 
All parties and their counsel must regard the date set for trial as
certain.” Under CRC Rule 3.1332(b), “A party seeking a continuance of the date
set for trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the
parties, must make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex
parte application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with
supporting declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon
as reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered.” 
            
Under CRC Rule 3.1332(c),
“[a]lthough continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a
continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may grant a
continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance” and sets forth a variety of factors.  CRC Rule 3.1332(d) sets forth other factors
that are relevant in determining whether to grant a continuance. 
 
Analysis
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Lyna N.
Lax moves to continue the current trial date of October 28, 2024, to sometime
in 2025. The parties attended a mediation on February 19, 2024, and believe
that further mediation could potentially settle the case. (Senet Decl., ¶ 1.)
Defendant explains that the parties have conducted written discovery only and
have not started depositions. (¶2.) The parties wish to exhaust settlement
efforts without further expense of trial preparation and expert depositions. (¶
3.) Defendant’s counsel also has trials in other cases currently scheduled in
October and December 2024, and therefore requests a continuance to a future
date in 2025. (¶4.) Further, all parties have stipulated to the continuance. (¶
5.)
 
While there are some factors
favoring continuance, Defendant does not show good cause requiring a
continuance of trial. The basis for the proposed continuance is to allow for
additional settlement efforts, followed by the completion of discovery. Defendant
does not provide any overview of the parties’ diligent discovery efforts. Defendant
does not explain why the parties were unable to complete discovery over the
past year, or at the least, since the February 2024 mediation failed to settle
the case. Moreover, while further mediation might result in
settlement, the Court believes that firm trial dates provide the proper
incentive for parties to settle the action. The interests of justice are best
served by keeping the trial date firm.
 
Accordingly, the motion is DENIED.