  Case Number:  23BBCV02240    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2024    Dept:  A MOTION
FOR PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV02240
 



MP:  


Ann Shabtay (Plaintiff)




RP:  


JR Jainclan Foundation
  & Total Lender Solutions, Inc. (Defendant)


 
ALLEGATIONS:  
Ann
Shabtay, as trustee of the Ann Shabtay Children’s Trust (‘Plaintiff”), brings
this action against JR Jainclan Foundation & Total Lender Solutions, Inc.
(collectively “Jainclan”). Plaintiff asserts a claim for (1) quiet title, (2) cancellation
of instruments, and (3) declaratory/injunctive relief. Plaintiff alleges the
title to her property was improperly used by her son, who has no ownership
interest in that property, to secure a loan. Plaintiff’s son subsequently
defaulted on the loan and Defendants have issued a notice of non-judicial
foreclosure. 
Plaintiff
now moves for a preliminary injunction. Jainclan opposes the motion. 
ANALYSIS:  
I.               
LEGAL
STANDARD  
The purpose of a preliminary injunction
is to preserve the status quo pending final resolution upon a trial. (See Scaringe
v. J.C.C. Enterprises, Inc. (1988) 205 Cal.App.3d 1536.) Relief requires
the use of competent evidence to create a sufficient factual showing on the
grounds for relief. (See, e.g., ReadyLink Healthcare v. Cotton (2005)
126 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1016; Ancora-Citronelle Corp. v. Green (1974) 41
Cal.App.3d 146, 150.) The burden of proof is on the plaintiff as moving party.
(O'Connell v. Superior Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 1452, 1481.) A
plaintiff seeking injunctive relief must show the absence of an adequate
damages remedy at law. (C.C.P. § 526(4); Thayer Plymouth Center, Inc. v.
Chrysler Motors (1967) 255 Cal.App.2d. 
The trial court considers two factors in determining whether
to issue a preliminary injunction: (1) the likelihood the plaintiff will
prevail on the merits of its case at trial, and (2) the interim harm the
plaintiff is likely to sustain if the injunction is denied as compared to the
harm the defendant is likely to suffer if the court grants a preliminary
injunction. (C.C.P. § 526(a); Husain v. McDonald's Corp. (2012) 205
Cal.App.4th 860, 866-67.) The moving party bears the burden of demonstrating
both a likelihood of success on the merits and the occurrence of irreparable
harm before a final judgment can be entered. (Savage v. Trammell Crow Co.
(1990) 223 Cal.App.3d 1562, 1571.)
II.             
MERITS 
Facts 
On May 2, 2004, Plaintiff conveyed her
home located at 4833 Morella Avenue, Valley Village, California 91607 (the
“Property”) to herself as trustee of the Ann Shabtay Children’s Trust
(“Children’s Trust”). (Shabtay Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. B.) Plaintiff states that
for a brief time in 2019 the title was returned to her; however, she does not
include any documents that such a transfer occurred. Plaintiff provides
documents that the property was conveyed to the Children’s Trust again on April
17, 2019. (Shabtay Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. C.) A review of the document shows the
property was conveyed to Shabtay as trustee of the Children’s Trust via Grant
Deed dated September 25, 2018. (Id.) It appears that the Grant Deed was
not filed until April 17, 2019. (Id.) 
On November 3, 2021, Eran Shabtay
(‘Eran”) signed a Deed of Trust encumbering the property, naming Jainclan as
the lender. (Shabtay Decl. ¶ 6, Exh. D.) The borrower on this deed is listed as
Eran Shabtay, as successor trustee of the Ann Shabtay Sole Separate
Grandchildren’s Trust (“Grandchildren’s Trust”). (Id.) 
Plaintiff argues that Eran Shabtay has
never been a trustee of the Children’s Trust and had no authority to encumber
the property. (Shabtay Decl. ¶ 7.) Plaintiff makes no representations as
to the existence of the Grandchildren’s Trust or her status as trustee. 
Quiet Title Claim 
An action for quiet title seeks “to
establish title against adverse claims to real or personal property or any
interest therein.” (C.C.P. § 760.020(a).) 
C.C.P. § 761.020 outlines the pleading
requirements for a complaint claiming quite title. C.C.P. § 761.020(c) requires
that the complaint contain the adverse claims to the title of the plaintiff
against which a determination is sought. Said another way, “An element of a
cause of action for quiet title is the adverse claims to the title of the
plaintiff against which a determination is sought.” (Orcilla v. Big Sur,
Inc. (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 982.) 
Jainclan makes a salient point that Eran
is not a named defendant in this suit. Plaintiff’s prayer for relief asks
“[f]or a judgment quieting the Trust’s title in fee simple to the Property free
and clear of any lien or claim by Defendants.” The Complaint makes no reference
to a claim by Eran that he owns the property, nor does it ask the Court to
quiet title against him. Plaintiff only seeks to quiet the claims to title by
Jainclan. 
From the evidence presented, it does not
appear that Jainclan claims to hold title to the property. Eran purportedly encumbered
the property via a Deed of Trust and is not alleged to have conveyed title via
other mechanisms. 
Under California law, a mortgage or deed
of trust is a lien on property rather than a conveyance of legal title. (Secrest
v. Security National Mortgage Loan Trust 2002-2 (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 544,
554.) However, “Under a deed of trust containing a power of sale, the borrower,
or ‘trustor,’ conveys nominal title to property to an intermediary, the ‘trustee,’
who holds that title as security for repayment of the loan to the lender, or ‘beneficiary.’
(Kachlon v. Markowitz (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 316, 334 [internal
citations omitted].) 
It is unclear whether the nominal title
granted by a deed of trust with power of sale would be subject to Plaintiff’s
quiet title action. What is clear is that there is an obvious omission from
Plaintiff’s action for quiet title. In order to convey nominal title via deed
of trust, Eran claimed that he was the trustee of the Grandchildren’s Trust and
that the Grandchildren’s Trust had title to the property. Eran’s claims made to
secure the loan from Jainclan are now fully known to Plaintiff, yet Plaintiff
has failed to allege in her pleading his claim of title.   
The Court finds the failure to include
Eran Shabtay as a named defendant, as well as the failure to include his
adverse title claim in the Complaint means that Plaintiff’s is missing a
crucial element of a quiet title action. Without inclusion of these claims for
quiet title it is almost certain that Plaintiff would not succeed on her claims
for quiet title. Further, Plaintiff’s other causes of action for cancelation of
documents and injunctive relief are premised on the success of the quiet title
claims. Without the inclusion of Eran’s adverse claim, Plaintiff is not likely
to succeed on the merits. 
Further, even if Eran’s claims were
included, the Court finds Plaintiff’s showing falls short of that required to
show success in proving title. 
Any quiet title claim is subject to the
presumption under Evidence Code § 662 that: “The owner of the legal title to
property is presumed to be the owner of the full beneficial title. This
presumption may be rebutted only by clear and convincing proof.” The same is
required for a resulting trust: “one who claims a resulting trust in property
has the burden of proving the facts establishing his beneficial interest by
clear and convincing evidence.” (Gomez v. Cecena (1940) 15 Cal.2d 363,
366-367.) 
Here, Plaintiff has provided no
information reflecting the current title of the Property. Plaintiff alleges she
transferred the property back to herself momentarily in 2019, but she includes
no documents that such a transfer occurred. Plaintiff does include documents
showing the transfer back to her as trustee in 2019. However, Plaintiff
provides no showing as to the title at the time of Eran’s alleged subterfuge,
nor has she provided any documentation showing current title. 
Accordingly, the motion for preliminary
injunction is DENIED. 
 
RULING: 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER  
Ann
Shabtay’s Motion for Preliminary Injunction came on regularly for hearing on January 17, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as follow: 
 
THE MOTION IS DENIED.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, JAINCLAN IS TO
GIVE NOTICE.  
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: January
17, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    Yolanda
Orozco, Judge  Superior Court of California 
 County of
Los Angeles 
 
 