  Case Number:  23TRCV04100    Hearing Date:   December 16, 2024    Dept:  B    


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
ANDREA
  COVINGTON, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV04100




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
HIGHRIDGE
  APARTMENTS, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 


Hearing
Date:                          December
16, 2024 Moving
Parties:                      Defendants Highridge Apartments and Essex Property Trust,
Inc.Responding
Party:                  NoneMotion
for Leave to File a Cross-Complaint             The Court considered the moving papers.Plaintiff’s
counsel has requested a continuance of the hearing which the Court is inclined to
grant.  But since the Court has already
prepared this tentative, it shall publish it so that the parties may know the
initial thoughts.  The Motion was filed
November 5, 2024.RULING            The motion is GRANTED.  Defendants are ordered to file a
cross-complaint by 5 days of this
Order. BACKGROUNDOn December 7, 2023, plaintiffs
Andrea Covington and Shomari Wilson filed a complaint against Highridge
Apartments and Essex Property Trust, Inc. (1) breach of habitability, (2)
negligence, (3) IIED, (4) NIED, (5) harassment, (6) retaliation.  Plaintiffs allege that on October 6, 2021,
plaintiffs signed a lease with defendants for the rental of an apartment at
28120 Peacock Ridge Drive, #9-304, Rancho Palos Verdes.  Complaint, ¶10.  On March 29, 2024, plaintiffs’ apartment
sustained water damage, which caused the ceiling in the apartment to
collapse.  Id., ¶11.  Plaintiffs were advised by management to
immediately vacate the property, pay their rent in a timely manner, and that
they would be able to return to their apartment within ten days.  Id., ¶13. 
Plaintiffs vacated their apartment on April 8, 2023 and were not allowed
to return until April 30, 2023.  Id.,
¶14.  Plaintiffs were not assisted in
finding temporary accommodations and told to go through their renter’s
insurance company.  Id., ¶16.  Plaintiffs had two operating businesses in
the apartment but were unable to operate either.  Id., ¶21. 
On June 5, 2024, the Court granted
defendants’ motions to compel responses against plaintiffs.On August 14, 2024, the Court
granted defendants’ motion to compel further responses to form interrogatories.Trial is scheduled for December 15,
2025.LEGAL AUTHORITYCCP §426.30(a) provides, “if a
party against whom a complaint has been filed and served fails to allege in a
cross-complaint any related cause of action which (at the time of serving his
answer to the complaint) he has against the plaintiff, such party may not
thereafter in any other action assert against the plaintiff the related cause
of action not pleaded.” CCP §426.50 states that, “A party
who fails to plead a cause of action subject to the requirements of this
article, whether through oversight, inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other
cause, may apply to the court for leave. . . to file a cross-complaint, to
assert such cause at any time during the course of the action.  The court, after notice to the adverse party,
shall grant, upon terms as may be just to the parties, leave . . . to file the
cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who failed to plead the
cause acted in good faith.  This
subdivision shall be liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of
action.”CCP §428.10 states that, “A party
against whom a cause of action has been asserted in a complaint or
cross-complaint may file a cross-complaint setting forth either or both of the
following: . . . (b) Any cause of action he has against a person alleged to be
liable thereon, whether or not such person is already a party to the action, if
the cause of action asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same
transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause
brought against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or interest in the property
or controversy which is the subject of the cause brought against him.”CCP § 428.50 states, “(a) A party
shall file a cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the complaint
or cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as the answer
to the complaint or cross-complaint.(b) 
Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has
set a date for trial.(c) 
A party shall obtain leave of court to file any cross-complaint except
one filed within the time specified in subdivision (a) or (b).  Leave may be granted in the interest of
justice at any time during the course of the action.”“If the proposed cross-complaint is
permissive . . ., leave of court may be granted ‘in the interest of justice’ at
any time during the course of the action (CCP §428.50(c)).  On the other hand, if the proposed cross-complaint
is compulsory . . ., leave must be
granted so long as defendant is acting in good faith (CCP §426.50 . . .).”  Weil & Brown, Civ. Proc. Before Trial, ¶6:555.“The declarations of defendant’s
counsel should show that it would be ‘in the interest of justice’ to grant
leave to file; and some reasonable excuse why the cross-complaint was not filed
earlier (mistake, inadvertence, excusable neglect . . . or most commonly,
recent discovery of new facts).”  Id.,
¶6:562.DISCUSSION            Defendants
Highridge Apartments and Essex Property Trust request leave to file a
cross-complaint against plaintiffs for breach of contract and failure to pay
rent.             Defendants
assert that they could not file the cross-complaint at the time of the answer
as plaintiffs were still living at the property and damages were not yet
conclusive.  Defendants contend that
after plaintiffs moved out, they left a balance of over $10,000 as plaintiffs
stopped paying rent in April 2024. 
Defendants argue that the proposed cross-complaint is compulsory because
defendants’ claim against plaintiffs arise out of the same occurrence and
tenancy as the complaint.  Defendants
further contend that they do not anticipate any prejudice to any of the parties
because the matter arises out of the same tenancy and is relatively
straightforward, and that discovery related to the cross-complaint would be
minimal, and trial is “over a year away.”The Court rules as follows:  The Court finds that the proposed
cross-complaint is compulsory and that defendants are acting in good faith.            The
motion is GRANTED. ORDER            The
motion is GRANTED.            Defendants
are ordered to file their cross-complaint within 5 days of this Order.



































































            Defendants are ordered to give
notice of ruling.