  Case Number:  20STCV20862    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  39  
 TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPT:


39




May 20


May 31, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV20862




MOTION:  


Motion for Attorneys’ Fees




MOVING PARTIES:


Plaintiff Outsource, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
MOTIONS
            Plaintiff
Outsource, LLC (“Plaintiff”) prevailed on its breach of contract claim against Defendant
Horizon Communications Technologies, Inc. (“Defendant”).  Now, Plaintiff seeks an award of attorney fees.  The court previously
considered the matter, and in its order of March 7, 2024, continued the matter
to this date.
 
ANALYSIS The prevailing
party must seek an award of attorney fees by way of a noticed motion and bears
the burden of proof to justify the amount sought.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subd.
(c)(5)(A). Plaintiff claims
it is entitled to attorney fees based on the payment plan into which the
parties entered.  The plan provides that
if Defendant defaults in making payments, Plaintiff is “entitled to recover the
reasonable attorney’s fees and costs incurred in enforcing its rights under
this Agreement.”  (Declaration of Dayton
B. Parcells, III, Exhibit 2, Para. 2D.)  Plaintiff
is, therefore, entitled to recover fees Plaintiff incurred in prevailing on
Plaintiff’s contract claims against Defendant. 
(See Santisas v. Goodin (1998) 17 Cal.4th 599, 615.)  However, Plaintiff’s billing records include
substantial fees Plaintiff incurred in defending against the claim of third-party
claimant Sunwest Bank.  Plaintiff is not
entitled to recover those fees from Defendant, as those fees do not stem from
the contract claims between Plaintiff and Defendant.  In its order of March 7, 2024, the Court
ordered Plaintiff to lodge supplemental evidence in support of its motion, in
which it indicates which fees Plaintiff incurred in prosecuting its breach of
contract claims against Defendant.  Plaintiff provided no supplemental filing.  Additionally, at no point has
Plaintiff contended the contract into which it entered with Defendant provides
for an award of attorney fees for work its counsel performs related to defending
a claim made by a third party not bound by the subject contract.  As this court is unable to discern what
amount of attorney fees would be appropriate based on the work Plaintiff’s
counsel performed with respect to Plaintiff’s contractual claim against Defendant, the motion is denied.
Plaintiff is ordered to provide notice of this order and
file proof of service of same.
 