 Case Number:  23STCV29986    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  39  
 TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


May 31, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV29986




MOTION 


Motion to Compel Arbitration




MOVING PARTY


Defendant
  Associated Ready Mixed Concrete, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Xavier Sosa Duran



 
MOTION
              Defendant
Associated Ready Mix Concrete, Inc. (“Defendant”) moves to compel arbitration of
the claims Plaintiff Xavier Sosa Duran (“Plaintiff”) asserts against Defendant.  Plaintiff opposes the motion.
 
ANALYSIS
The moving party
on a petition to compel arbitration “bears the burden of proving the existence
of a valid arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, while a
party opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of
the evidence any fact necessary to its defense.  The trial court sits as
the trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other
documentary evidence, and any oral testimony the court may receive at its
discretion, to reach a final determination.” 
(Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836,
842, internal quotation omitted.)  
Defendant advances
multiple arbitration agreements Plaintiff signed while working for
Defendant.  The most recent agreement is
dated April 27, 2018.  The Court assumes
this agreement supersedes prior agreements, as the parties do not argue
otherwise.  While Plaintiff points out
that Plaintiff did not sign an arbitration agreement that Defendant presented
to Plaintiff after the April 27, 2018 agreement, Plaintiff’s failure to sign a
later arbitration agreement has no impact on whether the April 27, 2018 arbitration
binds Plaintiff.  The April 27, 2018
arbitration agreement provides Plaintiff and Defendant agree
to arbitrate “any legally actionable dispute . . . which cannot be resolved by
discussion . . . .”  (Declaration of Jaret
M. Ramirez in Support of Motion to Compel Arbitration, Exhibit 4.)  Accordingly, Defendants meet their burden
to show an agreement to arbitrate covers Plaintiff’s claims.  
The arbitration
agreement specifies the arbitration will be under “the Federal Arbitration Act
. . . if applicable . . . .” 
(Declaration of Jaret M. Ramirez in Support of Motion to Compel
Arbitration, Exhibit 4.)  The party that
contends the Federal Arbitration Act applies bears the burden of demonstrating
the arbitration agreement is in a “‘contract evidencing a transaction involving
commerce’ . . . .” (Woolls v. Superior Court (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 197,
211; 9 U.S.C. § 2.)  Defendant advances
no evidence showing the Federal Arbitration Act applies, other than its
misleading quotation of the arbitration agreement to omit the qualification
that the Federal Arbitration Act applies if applicable.  As such, Defendant fails to demonstrate the
Federal Arbitration Act governs. 
Accordingly, California law applies. 

As California law
applies, the arbitration agreement between Plaintiff and Defendant must meet
the rules set forth in Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services,
Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83 (Armendariz).  Statutory claims an employee brings against
an employer are arbitrable if the arbitration agreement provides for a neutral
arbitrator, discovery, a written decision from the arbitrator, and limitations
on the expenses.  (Id. at p. 102.)  The arbitration agreement involving these
parties specifies the employment arbitration rules of the Judicial Arbitration
and Mediation Services, Inc., or JAMS, apply. 
It further states if the parties cannot agree on an arbitrator, the
parties will select an arbitrator by the JAMS rules.  (Declaration of Jaret M. Ramirez in Support
of Motion to Compel Arbitration, Exhibit 4.) 
It therefore provides for a neutral arbitrator.  (Employment Arbitration Rules &
Procedures (June 1, 2021) Rule 15, at
<https://www.jamsadr.com/rules-employment-arbitration/english> [as of May
16, 2024].)  Pursuant to JAMS rules, the
parties are entitled to depositions and written discovery.  (Employment Arbitration Rules &
Procedures (June 1, 2021) Rule 17, at
<https://www.jamsadr.com/rules-employment-arbitration/english> [as of May
16, 2024].)  Likewise, as the arbitration
agreement states JAMS rules apply, it provides for a written decision.  (Employment Arbitration Rules &
Procedures (June 1, 2021) Rule 24, at
<https://www.jamsadr.com/rules-employment-arbitration/english> [as of May
16, 2024].)  Further, Plaintiff will not
be responsible for more in fees than Plaintiff would be in Court.  (Employment Arbitration Rules &
Procedures (June 1, 2021) Rule 31, at
<https://www.jamsadr.com/rules-employment-arbitration/english> [as of May
16, 2024].)  Therefore, the  arbitration agreement complies with Armendariz.  
Plaintiff argues the arbitration agreement is unconscionable.  “If the court as a matter of law finds the
contract or any clause of the contract to have been unconscionable at the time
it was made the court may refuse to enforce the contract, or it may enforce the
remainder of the contract without the unconscionable clause, or it may so limit
the application of any unconscionable clause as to avoid any unconscionable
result.”  (Civ. Code,  1670.5, subd. (a).)  Unconscionability is defined as ‘“an absence
of meaningful choice on the part of one of the parties together with contract
terms which are unreasonably favorable to the other party.”’  (A
& M Produce Co. v. FMC Corporation. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 473, 486 (A & M Produce).)  
Unconscionability thus has a procedural and a substantive element.  (A
& M Produce, supra, 135 Cal.App.3d at p. 486.)  The court considers the factors of oppression
and surprise in determining whether a contract is procedurally
unconscionable.  (Ibid.)  Oppression refers to
inequality of bargaining power, which cuts off meaningful negotiation.  (Ibid.)  Surprise refers to the concealment of the
agreed-upon terms in a lengthy form drafted by the party seeking to enforce
them.  (Ibid.)  Substantive
unconscionability refers to the extent to which a contractual term reallocates
the risks of a bargain “in a[n] objectively unreasonable or unexpected or
unexpected manner.” (Id. at
487.)  Both substantive and procedural
unconscionability must be present for a contract to be unenforceable, and “the
greater the unfair surprise or inequality of bargaining power, the less
unreasonable the risk reallocation which will be tolerated.” (Ibid.)
            The evidence before the court shows Defendant
prepared the arbitration agreement, and Plaintiff had no opportunity to
negotiate or discuss its terms.  The agreement
is, therefore, a contract of adhesion. 
(See Neal v. State Farm Insurance
Companies (1961) 188 Cal.App.2d 690, 695.) 
This constitutes some evidence of procedural unconscionability.  (Flores
v. Transamerica HomeFirst, Inc. (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 846, 853.)  Further, Defendant incorporated the JAMS
rules by reference, which is further evidence of procedural
unconscionability.  (See Baltazar v.
Forever 21, Inc. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237, 1246.)
Plaintiff has not, however, demonstrated the arbitration agreement is
substantively unconscionable.  Plaintiff
argues the arbitration agreement is substantively unconscionable because it
requires Plaintiff to arbitrate claims but permits Defendant to seek relief in
court.  The arbitration agreement
excludes certain claims, including claims that Plaintiff may bring.  (Declaration of Jaret M. Ramirez in Support
of Motion to Compel Arbitration, Exhibit 4.) 
As such, this is not evidence of unconscionability.
Plaintiff points out the waiver of Plaintiff’s ability to bring a class
action or representative action is unenforceable.  (Muro v. Cornerstone Staffing Solutions,
Inc. (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 784, 788; Iskanian v. CLS Transp. Los
Angeles, LLC (2014) 59 Cal.4th 348, 360.) 
However, Plaintiff does not assert class action or representative
claims.  As such, the enforceability of
the waivers is irrelevant.
Plaintiff further argues the discovery rules are lopsided in favor of
Defendant.  But they are not.  Pursuant to the JAMS rules, each party is
entitled to one deposition as a matter of right.  (Employment Arbitration Rules &
Procedures (June 1, 2021) Rule 17, at
<https://www.jamsadr.com/rules-employment-arbitration/english> [as of May
16, 2024].)  Plaintiff argues that this
rule favors Defendant, as Defendant could use that deposition to depose
Plaintiff, whereas Plaintiff must “make the difficult decision as to who he
would depose.”  (Opposition to
Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Action, p. 15.)  If Plaintiff notices Defendant’s deposition,
however, Defendant must produce a witness knowledgeable to testify about
pertinent issues.  Further, Plaintiff may
request the arbitrator “grant a request for additional depositions, based upon
the reasonable need for the requested information, the availability of other
discovery and the burdensomeness of the request on the opposing Parties and the
witness.”  (Employment Arbitration Rules
& Procedures (June 1, 2021) Rule 17, at
<https://www.jamsadr.com/rules-employment-arbitration/english> [as of May
16, 2024].)  Likewise, Plaintiff may
obtain “discovery of third parties with the approval of the Arbitrator.”  (Ibid.)  “[A]rbitration is meant to be a streamlined
procedure.  Limitations on discovery,
including the number of depositions, is one of the ways streamlining is
achieved.  [D]iscovery limitations are an
integral and permissible part of the arbitration process.”  (Dotson v. Amgen, Inc. (2010) 181
Cal.App.4th 975, 983.)  As Plaintiff
fails to show the arbitration agreement is substantively unconscionable, the
agreement is enforceable.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendant’s motion to compel
Plaintiff to arbitrate is granted.  This
case is stayed pending arbitration.  The
Court will set an order to show cause regarding the status of arbitration on a
date to be specified.  
Defendant is ordered to provide notice of
this order and file proof of service of same.
 