 Case Number:  20STCV25567    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  39  
 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


May 31, 2024




CASE NUMBER


20STCV25567




MOTIONS


Motion to Set Aside Default 




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Paul
  Kozlov




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff the Hakala Law Group, P.C.



 
MOTION
Defendant Paul
Kozlov (“Defendant”) moves to set aside the default and default judgment that
Plaintiff Hakala Law Group, P.C. (“Plaintiff”) took against Defendant.  In its order of February 9, 2024, the Court
continued the matter to this date, and construed the motion as a motion to
enforce settlement under Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6.  Per this Court’s order of February 9, 2024, the
parties filed further briefing, which the Court now considers.
 
ANALYSIS
            Code
of Civil Procedure section 664.6 provides that “[i]f parties to pending
litigation stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties outside the presence
of the court or orally before the court, for settlement of the case, or part
thereof, the court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms of
the settlement.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
664.6.)  In ruling on a motion to enter
judgment, the court acts as a trier of fact. 
The court must determine whether the parties entered into a valid and
binding settlement agreement.  To do so,
the Court may receive oral testimony in addition to declarations.  (Kohn v. Jaymar-Ruby, Inc. (1994) 23
Cal.App.4th 1530, 1533.)
            Defendant
submits the declaration of his counsel, Fahim Farivar (“Counsel”).  Counsel states Plaintiff and Defendant
reached a settlement of this action and finalized a written agreement
reflecting that settlement on April 6, 2022. 
The settlement agreement provides Defendant would pay $32,717.56 to
Plaintiff in multiple payments.  As of
the settlement date, Defendant had already paid $17,717.56 to Plaintiff.  Defendant agreed to pay the remaining balance
in a series of nine monthly installments of $1,666.67 for the first eight
months, and then one payment of $1,666.64. 
The first payment was due within seven calendar days of the settlement
agreement, or by April 13, 2022, and thereafter no later than the 13th of each
consecutive month.  The parties agreed if
Plaintiff contended Defendant missed any payments, Plaintiff would notify
Defendant in writing, and Defendant would have five business days to cure any
missed payment.  If Defendant failed to
make timely payments on three occasions, Defendant would automatically be in
default of the agreement and owe $118,007.35, less any payments Defendant had already
made.  In exchange, Plaintiff agreed to
dismiss all claims against Defendant with prejudice.  (Declaration of Fahim Farivar, Exhibit
A.)  Plaintiff claims Defendant missed
the first payment, but acknowledged Defendant cured this failure.  (Declaration of Fahim Farivar, Exhibit
B.)  Defendant presents evidence another
payor made the May 2022 payment on his behalf on May 16, 2022, which was again
untimely.  However, Defendant eventually
made all monthly payments by December 2022.  
            Plaintiff
states Defendant’s September 2022 payment was also untimely.  (Declaration of Brad A. Hakala, ¶ 8.)  As such, Plaintiff contends Defendant
defaulted on the settlement agreement. 
However, the evidence before the court reflects Plaintiff likewise
failed to satisfy his obligations set forth in the settlement agreement.  If Defendant defaulted under the settlement
agreement, Plaintiff was to file the stipulated judgment the parties executed
in connection with the settlement. 
(Declaration of Fahim Farivar, Exhibit A.)  But Plaintiff failed to advise the court of
the settlement agreement between Plaintiff and Defendant and sought to collect
on the default judgment against Defendant as if the settlement agreement did
not exist, thereby violating Plaintiff’s duties to the court. (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1385, subd. (a)(1).)  The court
finds, by failing to proceed according to the terms of the settlement
agreement, Plaintiff waived the right to hold Defendant in default of the
settlement agreement.   (Zamora v. Lehman (2010) 186
Cal.App.4th 1, 12.)  Thus, the court
grants Defendant’s motion to enforce the settlement agreement and Plaintiff’s
claims against Defendant are dismissed with prejudice.
            The
settlement agreement provides Defendant is entitled to recover his fees and
costs in enforcing the agreement.  Defendant
has provided a detailed accounting of such fees and costs. (See Exhibits E and
F attached to the Declaration of Fahim Farivar in support of Plaintiff’s Motion
to Enforce Settlement Agreement and Request for Attorney’s Fees and Costs.)  Plaintiff has offered no opposition to
Defendant’s request. The court grants Defendant’s request for attorney fees and
costs in the amount of $22,098.50.  
Defendant is
ordered to give notice of this order and file proof of service of same.