 Case Number:  22STCV35702    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


December
  15, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV35702




MOTIONS:  


Compel
  Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set Two




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff James Ellis




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  AIDS Healthcare Foundation 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
November 10, 2022, Plaintiff James Ellis (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against
Defendant AIDS Healthcare Foundation (Defendant) for negligence and premises
liability. Plaintiff alleges that he rented a unit at the Madison Hotel, owned
by Defendant, and that Defendant failed to respond to warnings about a violent
tenant who later shot Plaintiff. 
 
On August 28, 2023, Plaintiff propounded Special Interrogatories, Set Two
on Defendant. (Harings Decl. ¶ 2.) The interrogatory at issue seeks the contact
information of a witness, Victor Quinonez (Quinonez). Defendant objected on
privacy grounds and served its response on October 2, 2023. Plaintiff contends
the response is deficient because contact information of a percipient witnesses
is discoverable. Defendant opposes and Plaintiff replies. 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
Counsel for Plaintiff states she attempted to meet and confer with
Defendant’s counsel over email. (Harings Decl. ¶ 5.) However, Plaintiff did not
schedule an informal discovery conference (“IDC”) as required.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300(a) provides that “on
receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an
order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that any of
the following apply: 
 
(1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete. 
(2) An
exercise of the option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is
unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate. 
(3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or
too general.” 
 
The motion must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(b)(1).) “Unless notice of this motion is given
within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the
propounding party waives any right to compel a further response to the
interrogatories.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(c).) 
 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(d).)  
 
The Eighth Amended Standing Order for Procedures in the Personal
Injury Hub Courts requires that the parties engage in an IDC.[1] (See Order at ¶ 9E.)
 
The
interrogatory at issue here is Special Interrogatory, Set Two, Number 11 which
states:
 
“IDENTIFY Victor
Quinonez. For this interrogatory, IDENTIFY means to state: (1) the last known
mailing address; (2) last known phone number; (3) last known email address; (4)
dates of employment with AIDS HEALTHCARE FOUNDATION; (5) job title at all times
during employment with AIDS HEALTHCARE FOUNDATION. AIDS HEALTHCARE FOUNDATION
means the named Defendant, AIDS HEALTHCARE FOUNDATION, and any of your agents,
your employees, your insurance companies, their agents, their employees, your
attorneys, your accountants, your investigators, and anyone else acting on your
behalf.”
 
Defendant
objected based on privacy grounds and that it lacks Quinonez’s consent to
disclose his contact information. Defendant states that Quinonez has authorized
Defendant’s counsel to accept service of deposition subpoenas on his behalf and
provided the days and times he is available to be deposed. Without waiving this
objection, Defendant responded: “Mr. Quinonez was employed by AIDS Healthcare
Foundation from 4/27/20 to 2/24/23 as a Security Guard.” 
 
Plaintiff
argues Defendant’s response fails to provide contact information for Victor
Quinonez, who worked as a security guard at the Madison Hotel and was present
on the night Plaintiff was shot. (Harings Decl. ¶ 6.)  
 
Defendant argues Quinonez
has prohibited disclosure of his contact information. Quinonez provided a
declaration, under penalty of perjury that he will graduate from the Los
Angeles Police Academy in late 2023 and will become a Los Angeles Police
officer afterward. (Quinonez Decl. ¶ 2.) He instructed Defendant not to
disclose his home address because he is concerned about potential threats to
his family and personal safety once he becomes an officer. (Id.) Therefore, he
does not want the contact information publicly disclosed. (Id.) Defendant
further argues that Plaintiff has already deposed Quinonez and received his
telephone number; therefore, the home address is no longer necessary.[2]
(Stern Decl. ¶ 12.) 
 
In reply,
Plaintiff does not state the basis for why Quinonez’s home address is relevant
despite deposing him and receiving his telephone number.  
 
“Unless
otherwise limited by order of the court in accordance with this title, any
party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is
relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action or to the determination
of any motion made in that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in
evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence. . . . Discovery may be obtained of the identity and location of
persons having knowledge of any discoverable matter.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2017.010.) 
 
However,
discovery can be limited by a privacy right. “The state Constitution expressly
grants Californians a right of privacy. (Cal. Const., art. I, § 1.) Protection
of informational privacy is the provision's central concern. [Citation
omitted.] In Hill, [the California Supreme Court] established a
framework for evaluating potential invasions of privacy. The party asserting a
privacy right must establish a legally protected privacy interest, an
objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a
threatened intrusion that is serious. [Citation omitted.] The party seeking
information may raise in response whatever legitimate and important
countervailing interests disclosure
serves, while the party seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives
that serve the same interests or protective measures that would diminish the
loss of privacy. A court must then balance these competing considerations.
[citation omitted].” (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531,
533 (citing Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th
1, 35.)   
 
Applying these
factors, first, individuals have an interest in the privacy of their home,
which can include personal addresses and telephone numbers. (Puerto v.
Superior Court¿(2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1252.) Therefore, there is a
privacy right in Quinonez’s home address. Second, the reasonable expectation of
privacy is based on widely accepted community norms and as such, depends on the
surrounding context. “Customs, practices, and physical settings surrounding
particular activities may create or inhibit reasonable expectations of
privacy.” (Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn.¿(1994) 7 Cal.4th
1, 36.) Here, Quinonez is not a named party to this action, but rather worked as
a security guard at the Hotel where the events of this case took place.
Therefore, he appears to have a reasonable expectation of privacy regarding his
home address. Third, Defendant argues the threatened intrusion is serious since
Quinonez will be graduating from the Los Angeles Police Academy and will become
an officer. Defendant points to the special procedures for discovering police
personnel records under Evidence Code section 1043. While Plaintiff is not
attempting to discover Quinonez’s personnel records, Defendant argues this
section demonstrates the strong privacy concerns that law enforcement possesses.
(Opp., 8.) 
 
Plaintiff does
not describe the interests that disclosure would serve.[3] Defendant was
given authority to accept deposition subpoenas on Quinonez’s behalf. The
deposition already took place. Defendant also contends that its counsel is
representing Quinonez for the discovery matters in this case.[4] (Opp., 8.)
Therefore, after weighing these considerations, the Court finds the privacy
interest outweighs the discovery of Quinonez’s home address. Accordingly, the
motion is denied. 
 
Sanctions
 
Defendant
requests $1,000 in monetary sanctions representing a $200 hourly rate for five
hours preparing the declaration and opposition. Sanctions are mandatory against
the unsuccessful party that makes a motion to compel further discovery. In
light of Plaintiff’s failure to set forth any basis for the discovery, the
Court does not find that Plaintiff acted with substantial justification.
Therefore, Defendant’s request for $1,000 in monetary sanctions is granted. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court DENIES Plaintiff James Ellis’ motion to compel
further responses to Special Interrogatories, Set Two.
 
The Court further GRANTS Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions
against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel in the amount of $1,000.00. Said
monetary sanctions are to be paid to counsel for Defendant within 30 days of
the date of this order.
 
Plaintiff
to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 


