 Case Number:  21STCV17212    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  

 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


December 15, 2023




CASE NUMBER


21STCV17212




MOTION


Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel




MOVING PARTY


Attorney Martin E.
  Jacobs




OPPOSING PARTY


None



 
MOTION
 
            Attorney Martin E. Jacobs (Counsel)
moves to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff Colleen Howe (Plaintiff). 
 
ANALYSIS
 
            Counsel has
filed forms MC-051 and MC-052.  (Cal
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362.)  Counsel
states the instant motion is filed for the following reasons: “My health and
the need to care for my wife preclude me from practicing law or traveling to
Los Angeles. This is my last case in active litigation.” (MC-052.) Counsel also
provides detailed information regarding his current medical condition. The
Court finds that this is a valid reason for the withdrawal.  (See Rules Prof. Conduct, rule 1.16.)  
 
            However,
counsel has not filed a proposed order (MC-053 form). In addition, the
declaration of counsel does not set forth all of the hearing dates that have
been set in this case. Consequently, the Court orders Counsel to file within 5
calendar days of the hearing a form MC-053 which should include information
about all future hearings and proceedings noticed by any party, or ordered by
the Court.
 
            Further,
Counsel must serve the signed order (MC-053) within 10 days of the date of the
order, and file a proof of service of such. 
Counsel will remain the attorney of record for Plaintiff until Counsel
files and serves the updated proposed order.  (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(e).) 
 
            Accordingly,
the Court conditionally GRANTS the motion pending Counsel’s filing and service
of the updated form.  Counsel shall
provide notice of the Court’s ruling.
 