


[1]
Plaintiff argues that “[r]equiring an IDC prior to filing a motion is a
violation of Plaintiff’s due process rights under the Code of Civil Proc. §
2030.300 which allows as a matter of law for a party who received inadequate
interrogatory responses, to file a motion to compel further response.” (Reply
at p. 5.) The Eighth Amended Standing Order does not prevent a party from
filing a motion. Rather, it requires the parties to engage in an IDC before the
Court will hear the motion. In doing so, the order simply sets a procedural
requirement before the motion will be heard. Although the Court will hear this
motion for the sake of efficiency, the Court admonishes Plaintiff to comply
with the Court’s orders in the future.


[2]
Plaintiff asked for Quinonez’s home address during the November 14, 2023
deposition. Quinonez asserted his privacy objection and declined to provide the
address. (Stern Decl. ¶ 12.) 


[3]
Plaintiff merely argues that a witness’ home address is per se discoverable
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2017.010. However, that section
provides that discovery “may be” obtained, not “shall be” obtained. As
discussed above, discovery can be limited due to other considerations.
Moreover, Plaintiff is incorrect in his assertion that “it is black letter law
that a percipient witness has no right to privacy of their contact
information.” (Reply at p. 2.) Defendant’s former employee “unquestionably
[has] a legitimate expectation of privacy in [his] address[] and telephone
number[].” (Puerto, supra, 158 Cal.App.4th at 1252.) As to Plaintiff’s
assertions that Quinonez has not complied with a subpoena for documents, which
were set forth for the first time in his reply, the Court finds that these
issues should be addressed in a proper discovery motion if necessary, but do
not explain the need to subpoena Quinonez personally when Quinonez has
requested and AHF has agreed that AHF will represent Quinonez for purposes of
these discovery issues.


[4] Though
Defendant admits that Plaintiff offered an “attorneys’ eyes only protective
order” regarding Quinonez’s address, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s counsel
violated such an order in an unrelated case against Defendant. (Opp., 5.) Regardless,
there appear to be protective measures that might diminish the loss of privacy,
but this does not outweigh Plaintiff’s failure to assert the countervailing
interests the disclosure serves.

