 Case Number:  21STCV12617    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


December 15, 2023




CASE NUMBER


21STCV12617




MOTION


Motion for to Compel Additional Time to Take Continued
  Deposition of Plaintiff




MOVING PARTY


Defendant New Vision Contractors




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Susie Leivas



 
BACKGROUND
 
            On April 2,
2021, Plaintiff Susie Leivas (Plaintiff) filed a complaint for premises
liability after allegedly slipping on a liquid substance and falling. Defendant
New Vision Contractors (Defendant) was added to the complaint as Doe 1.
Defendant previously deposed Plaintiff on August 21, 2023, for nearly seven
hours. 
            
Defendant now moves to compel additional
time of at least ten hours to complete Plaintiff’s deposition. Defendant also
seeks monetary sanctions. Plaintiff opposes and Defendant replies. 
 
On December 5, 2023, the parties
participated in an Informal Discovery Conference (IDC). The issues were not
resolved, but the Court ordered the parties to submit a joint statement by
December 11, 2023. Since the parties dispute the topics that were already
covered in the first deposition, the parties were instructed to set forth which topics needed to be covered. In
response, Plaintiff was to set forth where in the deposition transcript it was
actually covered. The parties filed the Joint Statement on December 11,
2023. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
“Except as provided in subdivision
(b), or by any court order, including a case management order, a deposition
examination of the witness by all counsel, other than the witness' counsel of
record, shall be limited to seven hours of total testimony. The court shall
allow additional time, beyond any limits imposed by this section, if needed to
fairly examine the deponent or if the deponent, another person, or any other
circumstance impedes or delays the examination.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2025.290(a).) 
 
The plain meaning of Code of Civil
Procedure section 2025.290(a) “makes the seven-hour limit merely presumptive
and applicable only if the court does not order otherwise.” (Certainteed
Corp. v. Superior Court (2014) 222 Cal.App.4th 1053, 1060.) “[T]he language
of subdivision (a) indicates unambiguously that the court has the discretion to
allow additional time to examine a deponent beyond the seven-hour limit under
subdivision (a).” (Ibid.) “[S]ection 2025.290 not only authorizes the court to
allow additional time to depose a witness in these circumstances, but requires
it to do so unless the court, in its discretion, determines that the deposition
should be limited for another reason. Subdivision (c) recognizes that the court
has the discretion to limit a deposition in the interests of justice and states
that section 2025.290 does not affect ‘the court's discretion to make any order
that justice requires to limit a deposition in order to protect any party,
deponent, or other natural person or organization from unwarranted annoyance,
embarrassment, oppression, undue burden, or expense.’” (Id. at 1062.) 
 
“[T]he trial court has broad
discretion in ruling on motions to compel discovery. [citation.] This exercise
of discretion will not be reversed on appeal unless it has been manifestly
abused and where the facts justifying discovery are clear.” (Sawyer v. First City Financial Corp. (1981) 124 Cal.App.3d 390, 409.) 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s
counsel delayed the deposition by improper argumentation and objections.
Separately, Defendant also contends that the relevant information spans 64
years and concerns 16 different injuries and treatment from 43 medical
facilities; thus, the large volume of the documents and relevant topics warrant
additional time. (Motion, 12.) 
 
Plaintiff argues that its counsel
never instructed the witness to not answer a question and that Defendant did
not use the deposition time appropriately. (Opp., 6–7.) Plaintiff argues that
if the Court is inclined to allow additional time, the deposition should be
limited to topics that were not covered. 
            
In the joint statement, Defendant
identifies 40 different topics that need to be explored in the deposition. On
December 7, 2023, Defendant emailed Plaintiff a matrix of the additional
topics, requesting that she responds by December 8, 2023. (Joint Brief, Exh.
A.) Plaintiff emailed its response to the matrix on December 11, 2023. (Id.,
Exh. B, C.) Plaintiff disagrees with all topics except seven: (1) )  Prescriptions for Injuries from the Incident;
(2) Post-Deposition Produced Photographs; (3) Post Deposition Produced Videos; (4)
Plaintiff’s Reponses to Special Interrogatories Set One; (5) Plaintiff’s
Further Reponses to Special Interrogatories Set One; (6) Plaintiff’s Responses
to Form Interrogatories Set Two; and (7) Plaintiff’s Responses to Requests for
Admissions Set One. (Topics # 22, 35–40 in the Joint Brief.) 
 
In reviewing the deposition
transcript of Plaintiff, the Court disagrees with Defendant’s assertion that Plaintiff
and her counsel engaged in prejudicial misconduct that interfered with
Defendant’s ability to take a fair and complete examination of Plaintiff. In
addition, the Court disagrees that questioning Plaintiff “on the 14,465 pages
of” medical records is necessary to fairly examine Plaintiff. (Reply at p. 3.)
In reviewing the manner in which Defendant chose to examine Plaintiff “on her
background (personal and professional) and the facts and circumstances leading
up to and including the day of the subject slip and fall incident [which]
consumed more than half of the deposition,” the Court concludes that an
additional 7-10 hours of deposition time would be an undue burden. (Reply at p.
4.) Nevertheless, because there do appear to be some topics that Defendant did
not explore, the Court grants an additional 3 hours of deposition time.
Defendant is admonished to use that time efficiently and to limit the questioning
the topics listed in the joint brief.
 
Defendant seeks $9,435 in monetary
sanctions. The Court finds substantial justification and declines to award
sanctions.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court grants in part Defendant’s Motion to Compel
the Second Volume Deposition of Plaintiff Susie Leivas, and orders Plaintiff to appear for 3 hours of deposition within 20 days
of notice of the Court’s order, unless Defendant stipulates otherwise. 
 
In addition, the Court denies Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions.
 
Defendant is ordered to provide notice of the Court’s orders and file a proof
of service of such.
 
 