 Case Number:  20STCV14882    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


December
  15, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV14882




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant
  Duc Hoang Duong




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendant Duc Hoang Doung (Defendant)
moves to compel Plaintiff Miguel De La Rosa (Plaintiff) to serve responses to Request
for Production of Documents, Set One. Plaintiff has not filed an opposition.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.300, if a party fails to
serve a timely response to a demand for inspection, the party making the demand
may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Code Civ. Pro §
2031.300 (b).) The party who fails to serve a timely response to a demand for
inspection waives any objection to the demand unless the court finds that the
party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance or
party’s failure was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300 (a)(1)- (2).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant served Request for Production of Documents, Set One on
Plaintiff on April 13, 2023. (Ashtari Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A.) No responses have
been served. Accordingly, the Court grants the motion to compel.
 
Defendant does not seek sanctions in connection with this motion.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to Compel Responses to Request for
Production of Documents Set One is GRANTED. Plaintiff shall provide verified responses,
without objection, within 30 days.
 
Defendant
shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such. 