 Case Number:  21STCV38333    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


December
  15, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV38333




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Kara Gil




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the petition
by Petitioner Kara Gil (Petitioner) on behalf of Claimant Kaio Gil, age 4. The Court does not
approve and DENIES the petition based on the following reasons: 
 
This case involves a motor vehicle accident that Claimant
experienced when he was 3.5 months old. The car allegedly flipped. Claimant was
in a car seat at the time. Petitioner states that Claimant has recovered
completely. The medical record in attachment 8 is from a hospital visit two
days after the incident. It shows that Claimant showed no signs of internal or
external injury with the exception of a visible bruise on his right forehead
and a bruise on the buttock. The medical record also states: “since CT of the
head was negative for immediate signs of bleeding, no other testing is needed.”
However, given the severity of the motor vehicle accident, the Court requires
other medical records or a report, preferably at a later time after the
accident, or a declaration from the guardian ad litem, to ensure that Claimant
is fully recovered.
 
Petitioner did not complete item 10b, listing the
Defendant(s) offering the settlement. 
 
In item 11b(3), Petitioner marks she is not a plaintiff
in this action, yet is named in the complaint. If Petitioner is a plaintiff,
she must mark the correct box and include attachment 11b(3) explaining the
effect of her claim on the proposed compromise. 
 
In item 12a(4), Petitioner indicates no medical expenses
will be reimbursed from the proceeds of the settlement. However, item 12b(2)(f)
shows $2,153.04 owed to private insurance is to be reimbursed. Therefore, the
information is contradictory. Petitioner must amend item 12 accordingly and
check any relevant boxes in 12b. 
 
Similarly, attachment 12b(5) is supposed to include information
about the medical providers that comprise the $2,153.04 in medical liens to
providers. First, some of the providers are missing addresses. The addresses
must be included. Secondly, Petitioner writes that each provider seeks $0 to be
paid from the proceeds. This is contradictory since Petitioner indicates that
the providers hold medical liens totaling $2,153.04. Due to Petitioner’s
entries in item 12b(2) and 12b(5), it is unclear if Petitioner is seeking to
reimburse its insurance plan or a medical provider. 
 
Petitioner seeks $6,900 to be paid for attorney fees.
However, she must include an attorney declaration in attachment 13a discussing
the factors in California Rules of Court, rule 7.995(b) and a copy of the fee
agreement in attachment 17a. 
 
Petitioner must include attachment 17e explaining the
relationship of the other parties Claimant’s attorney is representing. 
 
Since Petitioner is seeking to deposit the funds into an
insured account subject to court authorization, it must include attachment
18b(2) stating the name, branch, and address of the depository. 
 
In item 8a(4) of the Order (MC-351), Petitioner must
provide the amount, name and address of each payee. 
 
Petitioner must file an Order to Deposit Funds in Blocked
Account, form MC-355.
 
Moving party shall give notice of
the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.
      