 Case Number:  21STCV40774    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


December
  15, 2023




CASE NUMBER


21STCV40774




MOTION


Motion
  to Continue Trial




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants
  Aiden Cole Berlinger and Jason Berlinger




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Walter Andrade



 
MOTION
 
Defendants Aiden Cole Berlinger and Jason Berlinger (“Defendants”)
move to continue trial. Plaintiff Walter Andrade (“Plaintiff) opposes.
 
BACKGROUND
 
            The complaint was filed on November
5, 2021.
 
            The answer was filed on December 27,
2021.
            
Trial was initially set for May 5, 2023.
 
            Trial was continued once pursuant to
stipulation to January 10, 2024. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Legal
Standard
 
 “Continuances are granted only on an affirmative showing of good
cause requiring a continuance.”¿ (In re Marriage of Falcone & Fyke
(2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 814, 823.)¿ A trial court has broad discretion in
considering a request for a trial continuance.¿ (Pham v. Nguyen (1997)
54 Cal.App.4th 11, 13-18.)¿ California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 sets forth
factors for the Court to consider in ruling on a motion to continue
trial. 
 
“To ensure the prompt disposition of
civil cases, the dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their
counsel must regard the date set for trial as certain.” (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1332(a).) 
 
“A party seeking a continuance of the
date set for trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the
parties, must make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex
parte application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with
supporting declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon
as reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered.”
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(b).)
 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include:
 
(1)  
The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances;
(2)  
The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;
(3)  
The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
(4)  
The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice;
(5)  
The
addition of a new party if:
(A) The new party has not had a
reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or
(B)  The other parties have not
had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in
regard to the new party’s involvement in the case;
(6)  
A
party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other
material evidence despite diligent efforts; or
(7)  
A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial.” 
(Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)
 
“In ruling on a motion or application for continuance, the
court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to the
determination. These may include:
 
(1)  
The
proximity of the trial date;
(2)  
Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party;
(3)  
The
length of the continuance requested;
(4)  
The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance;
(5)  
The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
(6)  
If
the case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that
status and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid
delay;
(7)  
The
court’s calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending
trials;
(8)  
Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial;
(9)  
Whether
all parties have stipulated to a continuance;
(10)  Whether the interests of
justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by
imposing conditions on the continuance; and
(11)  Any other fact or
circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.
(Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)
 
“Except
as otherwise provided in this chapter, any party shall be entitled as a matter
of right to complete discovery proceedings on or before the 30th day, and to
have motions concerning discovery heard on or before the 15th day, before the
date initially set for the trial of the action.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2024.020(a).) 
 
Discussion
 
            Defendants seek to continue trial to
April 11, 2024. Defendants assert that they need more time to resolve discovery
disputes. Defendants scheduled an informal discovery conference on December 12,
2023 and filed a motion to compel further request for production of documents,
set three, set to be heard on January 3, 2024. (Mendoza Decl. ¶ 3.) Defendants
are also scheduling a further deposition of Calabasas Surgery Center’s billing
person most knowledgeable. (Id. ¶ 4.) In connection with this, Defendants have
scheduled an informal discovery conference for January 23, 2024, which was the
next available date agreeable to Calabasas Surgery Center. (Id.) Defendants are
also conferring with Plaintiff on other discovery responses that they believe
will require additional informal discovery conferences; Defendants have
reserved IDCs in January and February 2024. (Id. ¶ 5.) Defendants also identify
at least nine witnesses to depose—three of which are not available until after
the trial date. (Id. ¶ 7.) Defendant argues they had set depositions within the
cut-off but needed to reschedule due to witness and Plaintiff’s counsel’s
unavailability. (Id. ¶ 16.) 
 
            Plaintiff argues good cause exists
to continue trial to March 11, 2024, but opposes continuing all discovery and
motion deadlines. Plaintiff instead contends that good cause exists to continue
expert dates and deadlines and non-expert discovery of the already timely noticed
depositions. 
 
            The answer was filed on December 27,
2021 and the case has been continued once. Here, the discovery cut-off was
December 11, 2023. Although Defendants have not shown diligence in seeking to
resolve their discovery disputes, Plaintiff has not asserted prejudice if the
Court grants a short continuance in order for the discovery motions to be heard
and pending depositions to be completed. 
 
            However, the Court admonishes the
parties that there will be no further continuances absent sufficient good
cause. To the extent that motions become necessary, the parties are reminded of
the Court’s impacted motion calendar and admonishes the parties that the
inability of the parties to obtain a hearing date will not be sufficient good
cause for a further continuance if the parties have not acted diligently.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, the Court grants in part Defendants’ motion for a
continuance.
 
The trial date, currently set for January 10, 2024, is continued to March
22, 2024 at 8:30 AM in Department 32.
 
The Final Status Conference, currently set for December 27, 203, is
continued to March 7, 2024 at 10:00 AM in Department 32. 
 
All discovery and motion deadlines will be associated with the new
trial date.
 
Defendants shall give notice of this order, and file a proof of
service of such.
 