 Case Number:  22STCV26427    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


December
  15, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV26427




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Judgment on the Pleadings   




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Beachfront Bikes LLC 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Antanas Jasiukonis



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 16, 2022, Plaintiff Antanas Jasiukonis (Plaintiff) filed a
complaint against Defendants Star Bike Rentals, Alon Benshalom (Benshalom), and
Does 1 to 25. On November 15, 2022, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint
(FAC) against the same parties, for negligence. Plaintiff alleges that on
January 3, 2021, “at or near the 2600 block of Ocean Front Walk in Venice,
California,” he was riding his bicycle on the beach bike path behind a
motorized vehicle owned by Star Bike Rentals and operated by Benshalom or Does.
Plaintiff alleges the motorized vehicle made a sudden left turn in front of
Plaintiff, causing him to strike the vehicle and be ejected from his bicycle. (FAC,
4.) 
 
Defendant Beachfront Bikes LLC (erroneously sued as Star Bike Rentals)
now moves for judgment on the pleadings. Plaintiff opposes and Beachfront Bikes
LLC (Defendant) replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
The standard for ruling on a motion for judgment on the
pleadings is essentially the same as that applicable to a general demurrer,
that is, under the state of the pleadings, together with matters that may be
judicially noticed, it appears that a party is entitled to judgment as a matter
of law.  (Bezirdjian v. O'Reilly (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 316, 321-322,
citing Schabarum v. California Legislature (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1205, 1216.) 
Matters which are subject to mandatory judicial notice may be treated as part
of the complaint and may be considered without notice to the parties. Matters
which are subject to permissive judicial notice must be specified in the notice
of motion, the supporting points and authorities, or as the court otherwise
permits. (Id.) The motion may not be supported by extrinsic evidence. (Barker
v. Hull (1987) 191 Cal.App.3d 221, 236.) 
 
When the moving party is a defendant, he must demonstrate
either of the following exist:  
                                           
i.The court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of
action alleged in the complaint.  
 
                                         
ii.The complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action against that defendant. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd.
(c)(1)(B)(i)-(ii).)   
 
“[I]n order for judicial
notice to support a motion for judgment on the pleadings by negating an express
allegation of the pleading, the notice must be of something that cannot
reasonably be controverted…The same is true of evidentiary admissions or concessions.”
(Columbia Casualty Co. v. Northwestern Nat. Ins. Co. (1991) 231
Cal.App.3d 457, 468.)   
 
JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
Defendant’s request for judicial notice of Vehicle Code section
21224(a) is granted. 
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
The Court sustains Defendant’s evidentiary objections.
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
A
motion for judgment on the pleadings must be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration demonstrating an attempt to meet and confer in person or by
telephone, at least five days before the date a motion for judgment on the
pleadings is filed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 439.) Here, the Defendant’s counsel
declares that he telephoned and sent a letter to Plaintiff’s counsel requesting
a meet and confer for this motion. (Black Decl. ¶ 2.) No response was received.
(Id.)
Therefore, the
meet and confer requirement has been met. 
 
DISCUSSION
The
elements of a cause of action for negligence are: (1) a duty on the part of
defendant toward plaintiff; (2) defendant’s breach of that duty; and (3) harm
to the plaintiff caused by that breach. (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1142.) 
Defendant argues that no facts are plead that it was negligent or
vicariously liable for the rider. Here, the Complaint states: 
 
“On
January 3, 2021 Plaintiff was riding his bicycle N/B on the beach bike path at
or near the 2600 block of Ocean Front Walk in Venice, California. Plaintiff was
riding behind a motorized vehicle owned by Defendant Star Bike Rentals and
operated by Defendant Benshalom and/or one or more DOE defendants that was also
traveling N/B on the bike path. The motorized vehicle was driven by Defendant
Benshalom and/or one or more Doe Defendants, whose true identity is unknown to
Plaintiff at the time of this filing. The motorized vehicle driven by
Defendants, including DOES 1-25, suddenly and unreasonably made an unsafe left
turn toward the beach, directly in front of Plaintiff. Plaintiff was unable to
stop in time and struck the motorized vehicle, causing him to be ejected from
his bicycle. As a result, Plaintiff suffered injury to his property and his
person.” (FAC, 4.) Plaintiff also alleges that Does 1 to 15 “were the agents or
employees of other named defendants and acted within the scope of that agency
or employment.” (FAC ¶ 6a.) 
 
Defendant cites to Vehicle Code section 21224(a) which states “[a]
person operating a motorized scooter is not subject to the provisions of this
code relating to financial responsibility, registration, and license plate
requirements, and, for those purposes, a motorized scooter is not a motor
vehicle.” 
 
Vehicle Code section 21220.5, defines a “motorized scooter” as “any
two-wheeled device that has handlebars, has either a floorboard that is
designed to be stood upon when riding or a seat and footrests in place of the
floorboard, and is powered by an electric motor. This device may also be
designed to be powered by human propulsion. For purposes of this section, a
motorcycle, as defined in Section 400, a motor-driven cycle, as defined in
Section 405, or a motorized bicycle or moped, as defined in Section 406, is not
a motorized scooter.” (Veh. Code § 21220.5(a) [defining “motorized scooter
under the definition in Veh. Code § 407.5].) 
 
Defendant argues that it cannot be vicariously liable. (Motion at pp.
5–6.) Plaintiff responds that “Plaintiff’s cause of action for general
negligence against Beachfront Bikes is not based on vicarious liability at
all.” (Opposition at p. 5.) Rather, Plaintiff argues that the negligence cause
of action is based on Beachfront Bike’s own negligent conduct. The Court agrees
with Defendant that the complaint does not allege sufficient facts, however,
the Court disagrees that the Court can determine based on what has been
presented that Plaintiff’s negligence theories fail as a matter of law. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s
motion for judgment on the pleadings is GRANTED. Plaintiff shall file and serve
any amended complaint within 30 days.
 
            Defendant
shall give notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.