 Case Number:  24TRCV00387    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
RYAN
  SIERRA,  


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV00387




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
HECTOR
  TOLEDO, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                        December
17, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendants Hector Toledo and Tricom Networks, Inc.
Responding
Party:                  None
(1)  
Motion
for an Order Compelling Response to Form Interrogatories, Set One
(2)  
Motion
for an Order Compelling Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One
(3)  
Motion
for an Order Compelling Responses to Demand for Production of Documents, Set
One
(4)  
Motion
for an Order Deeming Requests for Admissions, Set One, Admitted
 
            The Court considered the moving
papers.  No opposition was filed.
RULING
The motions are GRANTED.
Plaintiff Ryan Sierra is ordered to
respond without objections to defendants’ Form Interrogatories, Set One and
Special Interrogatories, Set One, within twenty days.
Plaintiff Ryan Sierra is ordered
(1) to serve on defendants a verified response without objections to defendants’
Demand for Production of Documents, Set One and (2) to produce all documents
and things in plaintiff’s possession, custody, or control, which are responsive
to defendants’ demand, within twenty days.
The Court orders the truth of the
matters deemed admitted in defendants’ Requests for Admissions against plaintiff
Ryan Sierra. 
The Court orders that plaintiff
Ryan Sierra and his attorney of record, Michael V. Jehdian, Esq. (SBN 195099)
pay sanctions, jointly and severally, to defendants in the amount of $1040, in
total for all four motions, within thirty days. 
BACKGROUND
On February 2, 2024, plaintiff Ryan
Sierra filed a complaint against Hector Toledo and Tricom Networks, Inc. for
negligence.  Plaintiff alleges that on
February 2, 2022, he was riding his bicycle, westbound on El Segundo Blvd. at
or near its intersection with Yukon Avenue, in Hawthorne when defendants’ vehicle
collided with plaintiff. 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            Interrogatories
If a party to whom interrogatories
are directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move
for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction.  CCP §2030.290(b).  The statute contains no time limit for a
motion to compel where no responses have been served.  All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served.  Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905-906. 
Request for Production of Documents
Where there has been no timely
response to a CCP §2031.010 demand, the demanding party must seek an order
compelling a response.  CCP
§2031.300.  Failure to timely respond
waives all objections, including privilege and work product.  Thus, unless the party to whom the demand was
directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the
documents demanded.  There is no deadline
for a motion to compel responses. 
Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not attempt to
resolve the matter outside court before filing the motion.  Where the motion seeks only a response to the
inspection demand, no showing of “good cause” is required.  Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, 8:1487.
Request for Admissions 
Pursuant to CCP § 2033.280(b), a
party may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth
of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).  “Failure to timely respond to RFA does not
result in automatic admissions.  Rather,
the propounder of the RFA must ‘move for an order that the genuineness of any
documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed
admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction’ under § 2023.010 et seq.”  Weil & Brown, Civ. Proc. Before Trial, ¶ 8:1370, citing CCP § 2033.280(b).  The court “shall” grant the motion to deem
RFA admitted, “unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for
admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a
proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial
compliance with Section 2033.220.”  CCP §
2033.280(c).
DISCUSSION
Defendants Hector Toledo and Tricom
Networks, Inc. request that the Court compel plaintiff Ryan Sierra to respond
without objections to defendants’ initial form and special interrogatories and demand
for production of documents and to deem admitted the requests for admissions.
Defendants assert that they served
the discovery requests on plaintiff on May 13, 2024.  Responses were due by June 14, 2024.  On June 17, defense counsel emailed
plaintiff’s counsel requesting responses. 
Plaintiff’s counsel requested an extension to July 8, which defense
counsel granted.  Having not received any
responses, on July 22, August 2, August 14, and September 3, defense counsel
followed up with plaintiff’s counsel regarding plaintiff’s outstanding
discovery responses, to no avail.  On
October 25, defense counsel informed plaintiff’s counsel that if plaintiff’s
discovery responses were not received by October 31, defendants would file
motions to compel responses and request sanctions.  On November 5, defense counsel called
plaintiff’s counsel, who stated that plaintiff’s responses would be served on
November 6.  Still having received no
discovery responses, on November 11, defense counsel emailed plaintiff’s
counsel “in a final attempt to avoid having to file any motions,” requesting
responses by November 12.  On November
12, plaintiff’s counsel responded that responses would be provided on November
13.  As of the filing date of the motions
(November 18), defense counsel had not received responses.
There is no opposition. 
The Court finds that defendants properly
served discovery requests and plaintiff failed to respond.
The motions are GRANTED.
                        Sanctions
Under CCP
§ 2023.030(a), “[t]he court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that
conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction is
authorized by any provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  Under CCP § 2023.010, an
example of the misuse of the discovery process is “(d) Failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery.” 
Sanctions are mandatory in
connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories and requests for
production of documents against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel unless the court “finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  CCP §§ 2030.290(c), 2031.300(c).
Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348(a) states: 
“The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a
party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the
motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested
discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”
Defendants
request sanctions in the amount of $2040 ($200/hr.) against plaintiff and
plaintiff’s attorney of record, Michael V. Jehdian, Esq. of the Law Offices of
Michael V. Jehdian, APC in total for the four motions.  The Court finds that $1040 ($200/hr. x 4
hrs., $240 filing fees) is reasonable and warranted against plaintiff and his
attorney of record, Michael V. Jehdian, Esq., in total for the four motions.
 
ORDER
The motions are GRANTED.
Plaintiff Ryan Sierra is ordered to
respond without objections to defendants’ Form Interrogatories, Set One and
Special Interrogatories, Set One, within twenty days.
Plaintiff Ryan Sierra is ordered
(1) to serve on defendants a verified response without objections to defendants’
Demand for Production of Documents, Set One and (2) to produce all documents
and things in plaintiff’s possession, custody, or control, which are responsive
to defendants’ demand, within twenty days.
The Court orders the truth of the
matters deemed admitted in defendants’ Requests for Admissions against plaintiff
Ryan Sierra. 
The Court orders that plaintiff
Ryan Sierra and his attorney of record, Michael V. Jehdian, Esq. (SBN 195099)
pay sanctions, jointly and severally, to defendants in the amount of $1040, in
total for all four motions, within thirty days. 
Defendants are ordered to give
notice of ruling.