  Case Number:  20STCV27886    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:  Plaintiff Gabriel Fajardo’s Motion for
Reconsideration and Motion for New Trial
Background
Plaintiff Gabriel Fajardo (“Plaintiff”) brought this
employment discrimination case against the City of Los Angeles (“Defendant”).
Plaintiff dismissed the individual defendant and several of his claims during
the pendency of the trial. The following claims went to the jury: (1)
Discrimination - Disparate Treatment based on race (Gov. Code § 12940(a)); (2)
Retaliation for providing testimony in prior lawsuits and exercising family
leave rights (Gov. Code § 12940(h); (3) Work Environment Harassment based on
race (Gov. Code §§ 12923, 12940(j)); and (4) Failure to Prevent Harassment,
Discrimination, or Retaliation based on race (Gov. Code § 12940(k).
The jury returned a verdict in favor of Plaintiff on one
cause of action for failure to prevent harassment, discrimination, or
retaliation claim but did not find for Plaintiff on the other claims for race
discrimination, harassment, and retaliation. The jury awarded Plaintiff
$511,863 in non-economic emotional distress damages. 
On 6/6/24, the Court granted Defendant’s JNOV motion based
on the holdings in Trujillo v. North County Transit District (1998) 63
Cal. App. 4th 280 and Dickson v. Burke Williams, Inc. (2015) 234 Cal.
App. 4th 1307.  Based on those holdings,
the Court held that the jury’s verdict in favor of Defendant on the race
discrimination/harassment/retaliation claims rendered the jury’s verdict in
favor of the Plaintiff on the failure to prevent harassment/discrimination/retaliation
claims legal unsupportable.  
Plaintiff filed a motion captioned as “Motion for
Reconsideration; Request for Reinstatement of April 9, 2024 Judgment in Favor
of Plaintiff Gabrial Fajardo; Alternatively, Motion for New Trial.” Plaintiff
filed a notice of intent to move for a new trial under all of the subsections
in Code of Civil Procedure Section 659. The Court considers the requests reconsideration
and new trial in this tentative ruling. Defendant opposes both motions. 
Legal Standard- Motion for Reconsideration
Code of Civil Procedure Section 1008 provides that a
party may move for reconsideration of an order “based upon new or different
facts, circumstances, or law.” Code Civ. P. § 1008(a). The moving party must
state such new or different facts, circumstances, or law in an affidavit, see
id., “which it could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered and
produced at the time of the prior motion.... 
A motion for reconsideration will be denied absent a strong showing of
diligence.” Forrest v. Dept. Of Corps. (2007) 150 Cal. App. 4th 183,
202, disapproved on other grounds by Shalant
v. Girardi (2011) 51 Cal. 4th 1164, 1172. See also Baldwin v. Home Sav.
of Am. (1997) 59 Cal. App. 4th 1192, 1199 (noting that 1992
amendment to CCP §1008 tightened diligence requirements). 
Disagreement with a ruling is not a new fact that will
support the granting of a motion for reconsideration. Gilberd v.  AC Transit (1995) 32 Cal. App. 4th 1494,
1500.  A new fact that is collateral to
the merits, such as counsel’s desire to argue further, does not warrant
reconsideration. Id., 32 Cal. App. 4th at 1500; Garcia v. Hejmadi
(1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th 674, 690. Counsel’s unsworn assertions or arguments are
not evidence and will not support a finding of fact.  DiCola v. White Bros. Performance
Products, Inc. (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 666, 682; see also Ev.
C. §500 (general burden of proof on party asserting claim or defense).
Analysis- Motion for Reconsideration
Plaintiff’s motion is captioned as a “motion for
reconsideration; request for reinstatement of April 9, 2024 Judgment.” The
Court considers Plaintiff’s request to be for reconsideration of the Court’s order
granting the JNOV motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 1008. Contrary to
Defendant’s contention, Plaintiff may seek reconsideration of the motion. See Trujillo,
63 Cal. App. 4th at 284-85, n.2 (appellate court reviewing JNOV ruling
after plaintiffs’ motion for reconsideration of the JNOV was denied by trial
court). .
Plaintiff argues that Defendant raised “new” arguments
in its reply brief in support of the JNOV motion that he did not have an
opportunity to respond to before the Court ruled on the motion. In support of
this contention, Plaintiff cites portions of Defendant’s reply brief  in which Defendant cited the Trujillo
and Dickson cases and argued why the holdings in those cases are
applicable to this case. First, Plaintiff’s suggestion that Defendant first
relied on these cases in its reply is incorrect. Defendant relied on these
cases in its opening JNOV brief and Plaintiff’s opposition also discussed the
cases and attempted to distinguish the cases. Moreover, counsel for Plaintiff
had an opportunity to argue the motion at the hearing, and specifically to
address the holdings in the cases. Second, the discussion of the cases in the parties’
briefs and at oral argument does not constitute new facts or law. To the extent
Plaintiff intends to argue that the Court is incorrect in its reading of Trujillo
and Dickson, Plaintiff’s disagreement with the Court’s ruling is not a new
fact or law that warrants reconsideration of the ruling.
Plaintiff also argues that reconsideration is
warranted because Defendant purportedly did not timely challenge the inconsistent
verdict and so waived its argument regarding the failure to prevent claim. Plaintiff
did not make this argument in opposition to the JNOV motion. Plaintiff provides
no explanation for why he could not, with reasonable diligence, discover the
legal authority he relies on for this argument at the time of the JNOV motion. Indeed,
the statute and cases cited by Plaintiff predate this case by at least a decade.
Plaintiff’s purported discovery of a new argument is not a “new” law or
circumstance that warrants reconsideration. 
In any event, the legal authority relied on by
Plaintiff does not support his argument. A party does not have to raise an
objection to an inconsistent jury verdict before the jury is discharged to
preserve the claim. Trejo v. Johnson & Johnson (2017) 13 Cal. App.
5th 110, 123, n. 4. The cases relied on by Plaintiff do not concern the issue
presented here of a verdict that does not include an essential foundational
predicate required to impose liability on the defendant, i.e., where the answer
on one claim is inconsistent with the answers on other predicate claims. Instead,
the cases cited by Plaintiff deal with situations in which the verdict was
incomplete or did not match the polling of the jury. As a result, they do not support
Plaintiff’s position that Defendant somehow waived its right to file the JNOV.  See Taylor v. Nabors Drilling USA (2014)
222 Cal. App. 4th 1228 (party waived claim by not timely objecting to incomplete
special verdict form that failed to elicit conclusions on all the elements of a
harassment claim); see also Keener v. Jeld-Wen, Inc. (2009) 46 Cal. 4th
247, 262 (party waived argument against verdict by not timely objecting to verdict
based on incomplete polling of the jurors); Juarez v. Superior Court
(1982) 31 Cal. 3d 759, 765-66 (issuing writ of mandate to trial court to vacate
order of mistrial after the same nine jurors did not agree on liability and
apportionment). 
Plaintiff’s motion for reconsideration under Section
1008 therefore is denied. 
Legal Standard- Motion for New Trial
Code of Civil Procedure § 657 governs motions for new
trial and provides that a new trial may be granted for: (1) “[i]rregularity in
the proceedings of the court, jury or adverse party, or any order of the court
or abuse of discretion by which either party was prevented from having a fair
trial”; (2) “[m]isconduct of the jury”; (3) “[a]ccident or surprise, which
ordinary prudence could not have guarded against”; (4) “[n]ewly discovered
evidence, material for the party making the application, which he could not,
with reasonable diligence, have discovered and produced at the trial”; (5)
“[e]xcessive or inadequate damages”; (6) “[i]nsufficiency of the evidence to
justify the verdict or other decision, or the verdict or other decision is
against law”; and (7) “[e]rror in law, occurring at the trial and excepted to
by the party making the application.”
Code of Civil Procedure § 659 provides that a party
moving for a new trial must first file a notice of his intention to move for a
new trial “designating the grounds upon which the motion will be made and
whether the same will be made upon affidavits or the minutes of the court, or
both.”
A new trial cannot be granted “unless, after an
examination of the entire cause, including the evidence, the court shall be of
the opinion that the error complained of has resulted in a miscarriage of
justice.” (Cal. Const., art. VI, § 13) The court must determine that, “after
examination of the entire cause,” it is “reasonably probable that a result more
favorable to the appealing party would have been reached in the absence of the
error.” People v. Watson (1956) 46 Cal.2d 818, 836. 
Analysis- Motion for New Trial
Plaintiff’s notice of intention to move for a new
trial recites all the subsections of Section 657 as the basis for the request. Plaintiff
reiterates the argument that Defendant waived its right to challenge the
verdict. As explained above, the case law does not support Plaintiff’s
argument. Thus, this argument does not constitute grounds for a new trial.   
Plaintiff also argues that the inconsistent verdict is
a legitimate basis for a new trial under Code of Civil Procedure section 657(6).
It is generally true that the remedy for inconsistent verdicts is to order a
new trial, not to grant a JNOV. City of San Diego v. D.R. Horton San Diego
Holding Co. (2005) 126 Cal. App. 4th 668, 682. But when a verdict for a
plaintiff does not include an essential predicate to impose liability against a
defendant, the remedy is not a new trial because the verdict makes clear that
the plaintiff must lose. In this case, the verdict on the failure to prevent
claim is at odds with the verdict against Plaintiff on the underlying
harassment, discrimination, and retaliation claims because the jury found no
actionable discrimination, harassment, or retaliation took place. The law makes
clear that a failure to prevent claim is legally unsupportable without a
finding of underlying discrimination, harassment, or retaliation. Trujillo, 63
Cal. App. 4th 280 and Dickson 234 Cal. App. 4th 1307. In such situations,
the remedy for an inconsistent verdict is to grant JNOV, not order a new trial.
See id. JNOV is the appropriate remedy because the verdict shows that Plaintiff
must lose because there is an absence of a finding of actionable harassment,
discrimination, or retaliation, and thus the failure to prevent claim
necessarily fails. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s request for a new trial is denied. 