  Case Number:  22CHCV00549    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47 Date: 9/20/23 Case #22CHCV00549   EX PARTE  APPLICATION FOR WRIT OF POSSESSION   Ex Parte Application filed on 9/15/23.   MOVING PARTY: Referee Michael S. Pecherer RESPONDING PARTY: all other parties   RELIEF REQUESTED: The issuance  of a writ of execution for the property commonly known as 10716 Telfair Avenue,  Pacoima, California 91331  pursuant to paragraphs 6, 8.f. and 13 of the Judgment.    RULING:    The application is denied.     On 7/22/23, Plaintiff Maria Isela Orozco aka Maria I.  Avalos (Plaintiff) filed this action against Defendant Juan F. Nuno (Defendant)  for: (1) Accounting, (2) Partition of Real Property and (3) Declaratory Relief.  On 1/30/23, this Court entered default  judgment in favor of Plaintiff and against Defendant.  Pursuant to the Judgment, Michael S. Pecherer  (Referee) was appointed as referee to complete the partition sale of the  property commonly known as 10716 Telfair Avenue, Pacoima, California 91331which  is the subject of this action.  (1/30/23  Judgment, Attachment 5a ¶6).   On 9/15/23, the Referee filed the instant ex parte  application seeking the issuance of a writ of execution for the property  commonly known as 10716 Telfair Avenue, Pacoima, California 91331 (the  Property) pursuant to paragraphs 6, 8.f. and 13 of the Judgment.  (See Ex Parte Application, p.2:2-7).   The application fails for several reasons.     First, the application is not accompanied by a memorandum  as required.  California Rules of Court,  Rule 3.1201(4).     Second, the application fails to “state the name,  address, e-mail address, and  telephone number of any attorney known to the applicant to be an attorney for  any party or, if no such attorney is known, the name, address, e-mail address, and telephone number of the  party if known to the applicant” as required.   California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1202(a).   Third, the applicant/Referee has not made “an affirmative  factual showing in a declaration containing competent testimony based on  personal knowledge of irreparable harm, immediate danger, or any other  statutory basis for granting relief ex parte” as required.  California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1202(c).   Fourth, there is no declaration of notice accompanying  the application as required.  See California  Rules of Court, Rule 3.1204.  Rather, on  9/18/23, Plaintiff filed a Proof of Service indicating that the ex parte  application and supporting documents were mailed to Defendant on 9/15/23 at the  Property address.     Even if it could be determined that Defendant is not  entitled to notice of the ex parte application due to his default in this  action and Plaintiff waives any defect in notice, the Referee has still failed  to establish that the requested relief is appropriate.    It is not clear what relief is being sought.  While the application is titled as one for  writ of possession and the proposed Order indicates that it is for writ of  possession, the body of the application refers to a “Writ of Execution” as does  the declaration of the Referee. (See Ex Parte Application, p.2:5;  Pecherer Decl. ¶6).   The only authority cited in the “Application for Writ of  Possession” is Code of Civil Procedure Section 873.070 which provides “[t]he  referee or any party may, on noticed motion, petition the court for  instructions concerning the referee's duties under this title. (emphasis  added).  (See Ex Parte  Application, p.2:5).  Therefore, a  noticed motion, rather than an ex parte application, must be made for the  subject relief.  Additionally, such a  motion would require authority to support the issuance of a writ of possession  and/or writ of execution under the facts of this case.   As noted above, the Referee relies on paragraphs 6, 8.f.  and 13 of the Judgment to support the request for the issuance of a writ of  possession and/or writ of execution.   Paragraph 6 of the Judgment appoints the Referee to complete the  partition sale.  Paragraph 13 provides  that the Court retains “jurisdiction of this matter to confirm the sale of the  Property, to consider the issuance of such orders as requested by the Referee  or either of the parties, to review the reports of the Referee, to issue  whatever additional orders as may be required to carry out the partition of the  Property, and to consider whether equitable adjustments to the distribution of  the net proceeds to the parties are just and appropriate.”     More importantly, paragraph 8.f. of the Judgment provides  that “[t]he Referee is specifically authorized to evict any person or entity  residing at the Property pursuant to California law and as necessary to  effectuate the partition sale of the Property.”   (emphasis added).  The Referee has  failed to provide any authority which allows the eviction of Defendant from the  Property through an ex parte application for writ of possession and/or writ of  execution, or even a noticed application for such relief, rather than filing an  unlawful detainer action.  Any subsequent  noticed motion/application must provide such authority.    