  Case Number:  21STCV12144    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  T 21STCV12144 ORTIZ V UBER [TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Cross-Defendant Matthew Rubeck's Motion for a Prior Separate Trial on Liability  Issues Before Trial on Damages is DENIED.     Introduction  Cross-Defendant Matthew Rubeck  (“Cross-Defendant”) moved for an order granting a prior separate trial on  liability before trial on damages issues in this action. Defendant and  Cross-Complainant MV Wav Services, Inc. (“Cross-Complainant”) opposed the motion.  As of January 8, 2025, no reply brief has been filed. Any reply brief was  required to have been filed and served at least five court days prior to the  hearing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).)    Procedure Although filed and served late on  January 3, 2025, the Court will consider Cross-Complainant’s untimely  opposition brief. (Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.1300(d).)  Discussion   A court “may order a separate trial of any  cause of action, including a cause of action . . . or of any issue or of any  number of causes of action or issues” in furtherance of convenience, judicial  economy, or to avoid prejudice. (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 1048, subd. (b).) “The  court may, when the convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or the  economy and efficiency of handling the litigation would be promoted thereby . .  . make an order . . . that the trial of any issue or any part thereof shall  precede the trial of any other issue.” (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 598.) “A trial  court has discretion to determine the order in which claims or issues are  bifurcated and determined, and the selection and scheduling of those phased  determinations will not be disturbed absent an abuse of that discretion.”  (Antelope Valley Groundwater Cases (2020) 59 Cal.App.5th 241, 273.) Cross-Defendant contends that a  prior separate trial on liability in this case will promote the ends of  justice, the convenience of witnesses, and judicial efficiency and economy.  Further, Cross-Defendant asserts that a prior separate trial on liability will  avoid substantial prejudice to Cross-Defendant.  Cross-Defendant’s counsel, Kelly  M. Johnson, Esq. (“Johnson”), declares that the only remaining defendant is MV  Wav Services, Inc. (Johnson Decl., par. 4.) Cross-Defendant is not named as a  defendant in the complaint. (Johnson Decl., par. 3.) The cross-complaint, which  was filed by defendant and cross-complainant MV Wav Services, Inc., is asserted  against Cross-Complainant and Aaron Stern; however, Mr. Stern has not yet  appeared in this matter. (Johnson Decl., par. 5.) The cross-complaint alleges  causes of action for indemnity, apportionment of fault, and declaratory relief.  (Johnson Decl., par. 5.) This case arises from a three-vehicle collision in  which Plaintiff was a passenger in a vehicle that rear ended Cross-Defendant’s  vehicle. (Johnson Decl., par. 7.) Cross-Defendant disputes liability “as he was  stopped at the time of the incident and he is not a defendant in plaintiff’s  action.” (Johnson Decl., par. 8.) Counsel then sets forth the various experts  designated by the parties. (Johnson Decl., pars. 9, 10, 11.) Very few expert  witnesses are expected to testify as to liability in comparison to the majority  of the expert witnesses focusing on damages. (Johnson Decl., par. 12.) Counsel  indicates that extensive expert testimony will be required to litigate  Plaintiff’s damages. (Johnson Decl., par. 13.) According to Ms. Johnson, a  prior separate trial on liability will promote efficiency and will avoid  wasting judicial resources because “[t]he liability phase will require less  time, less expert testimony, and will be the simplest issue for the jury to  decide in contrast to the damages portion.” (Johnson Decl., par. 14.)  Here, the Court finds that  bifurcation is not appropriate. Cross-Defendant’s counsel has not attested to  any prejudice that Cross-Defendant will incur if bifurcation is denied. Also,  given that Cross-Complainant alleges that Cross-Defendant is responsible for  Plaintiff’s injuries, the Court fails to see how bifurcation of liability and  damages would promote convenience or judicial economy. Given the dispute as to  liability, the Court finds that the liability and damages issues are related.      The same jury would have to hear  the bifurcated trial and this will extend the time of their jury service.  Also, moving party notes that cross-defendant  Aaron Stern has not yet been served. He was dismissed on 12/31/2024 so that is  no longer an issue. The case cannot be determined  without Mr. Rubeck's participation in the trial as he was one of a chain of cars  involved. The Court DENIES  Cross-Defendant’s motion for an order granting a prior separate trial on  liability issues before trial on damages issues in this action.     IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE  NOTICE.