  Case Number:  23SMCV04829    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Tabibiazar v. Fadia, Case no. 23SMCV04829
Hearing date December 19, 2024
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendants
Tabibiazar and Yahsar’s Demurrer with MTS to the FACC
Defendants
Seven Gables and Pantoja’s Demurrer to the FAC
Plaintiffs
Tabibiazar and Yashar sue defendants Fadia, Nikamal, Arbabha, Pantoja and House
of Seven Gables Real Estate for private nuisance, trespass and negligence
arising from damage to plaintiffs’ retaining wall and the alleged growth of
roots from defendants’ tree into plaintiffs’ property. 
Fadia
cross-complains against plaintiffs for negligence, breach of covenants and
slander. Plaintiffs previously demurred to Fadia’s cross-complaint as
noncompliant with Cal. Rules of Court. The court sustained the demurrer, and Fadia
filed the current FACC. Min. Order 7/1/24. Plaintiffs now demur to the second,
third and fourth COAs in the FACC. Plaintiffs move to strike Fadia’s requests
for punitive damages, attorney’s fees and injunctive relief. Fadia has not
filed an opposition. 
The
court previously sustained Fadia’s demurrer to plaintiffs’ complaint regarding
the second and third COAs. Id. Plaintiffs subsequently filed the FAC. Seven
Gables and Pantoja now demur to the twelfth and fourteenth COAs in plaintiffs’
FAC. Plaintiffs oppose.
“The
function of a demurrer is to test the sufficiency of the complaint as a matter
of law.” Holiday Matinee, Inc. v. Rambus, Inc. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th
1413, 1420. A complaint “is sufficient if it alleges ultimate rather than
evidentiary facts,” Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531,
550, but plaintiff must allege essential facts “with reasonable precision and
with particularity sufficient to acquaint [the] defendant with the nature,
source and extent” of the plaintiff’s claim. Doheny Park Terrace Homeowners
Ass’n., Inc. v. Truck Ins. Exchange (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 1076, 1099.
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendants
Tabibiazar and Yahsar’s Demurrer with MTS to the FACC
Plaintiffs
demur to the second, third and fourth COAs in Fadia’s FACC. Plaintiffs argue Fadia
is the former owner of the contested property, so cannot enforce CC&Rs against
plaintiffs as pled in the second COA. Fadia alleges he is the former owner of the
property at issue. FACC para. 9. This is insufficient to allow Fadia to state a
claim. 
Plaintiffs
argue Fadia fails to plead necessary specifics per the third COA for slander of
title. Fadia alleges plaintiffs made false statements to third parties. FACC
para. 38. This lacks sufficient specificity. See Manhattan Loft, LLC
v. Mercury Liquors, Inc. (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 1040, 1051; CACI No. 1730. 
Plaintiffs
argue Fadia’s fourth COA for permanent trespass is barred by the 3-year SOL set
forth in Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §338(b). Fadia alleges the wall at issue was
built between 2009 and 2010. FACC paras. 10, 19. Fadia’s fourth COA falls
outside the SOL. 
Plaintiffs
move to strike the entire FACC as untimely and not in compliance with the
court’s orders. In the alternative plaintiffs move to strike the FACC’s requests
for punitive damages, attorney’s fees and injunctive relief on the grounds such
prayers lack legal support. 
Plaintiffs
argue the court granted Fadia leave to amend by 7/31/24, 30 days after the court’s
sustaining of plaintiffs’ original demurrer. Min. Order 7/1/24. 
The
FACC is untimely, as it was not filed prior to 7/31/24. Fadia fails to oppose
the demurrer and motion to strike. Plaintiffs’ demurrer is SUSTAINED. The
motion to strike is GRANTED.
Defendants Seven Gables and Pantoja’s
Demurrer to the FAC
Defendants
Seven Gables and Pantoja demur to plaintiffs’ twelfth and fourteenth COAs for conspiracy
to commit fraud and declaratory relief as insufficient and unintelligible. 
“Conspiracy
is not a cause of action, but a legal doctrine that imposes liability on
persons who, although not actually committing a tort themselves, share with the
immediate tortfeasors a common plan or design in its perpetration.” Applied
Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 510-511. Plaintiffs
allege the demurring parties were aware of construction defects in Fadia home
that was being sold and misrepresented the condition of this property. FAC
paras. 106-107. This is sufficient; plaintiffs have alleged defendants knew of
material defects and shared in a common plan to conceal them. 
A
pleading “for declaratory relief is legally sufficient if it sets forth facts
showing the existence of an actual controversy, not one that is abstract,
relating to the legal rights and duties of the respective parties . . . and
requests that these rights and duties be adjudged by the court.” Maguire v.
Hibernia S. & L. Soc. (1944) 23 Cal.2d 719, 728. Defendants argue they
owed no duties to plaintiffs. 
Plaintiffs
allege defendant real estate developers who developed the property at issue
with the intention of selling said property. FAC para. 106. Plaintiffs allege
as future buyers of the property, they were foreseeable victims of harm caused
by defendants’ alleged misconduct. Id. The general rule of tort law is
that a duty of care exists where the harm to another party was reasonably
foreseeable. Plaintiffs alleged defendants knew or should have known of their
wrongdoing, and the risk of harm to future buyers of the property was
reasonably foreseeable. Fac paras. 106-107. This is sufficient on demurrer. OVERRRULED.
Moving party to answer within 10 court days.