 Case Number:  24SMCP00513    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Dhawan v. Saman, Case no. 24SMCP00513
Hearing date December 19, 2024
Dhawan’s Petition to Confirm
Arbitration Award
Saman’s
Petition to Vacate Arbitration Award
Saman
commenced arbitration against Dhawan regarding defects in the condominium he
purchased from Dhawan. The parties stipulated to bifurcate the liability and
damages phases of arbitration. Decl. Stern exh. D. Following trial on
liability, the arbitrator issued an interim award in Dhawan’s favor. Dhawan moved
for attorney’s fees, and Saman filed an objection, requesting the arbitrator
address Saman’s claims of rescission. 
The
arbitrator’s final award of 9/20/24 found: (1) prior to the arbitration, Saman
filed a first amended statement of claims in which he withdrew his rescission
claim and sought only damages (Final Award 4:14-16); (2) Saman was otherwise
not entitled to rescission because Saman sold the unit prior to the arbitration
and could not tender it back to Dhawan (Final Award 4:12-14); (3) there was no
mutual mistake of fact, and there was no negligent misrepresentation by Dhawan as
to the property’s condition (Final Award 4:27-5:2); and (4) Saman failed to
meet his burden of proving Dhawan was aware of, and failed to disclose, the
condition of the unit (Interim Award 7:16-18).
Dhawan
petitions to confirm the arbitration award. Saman petitions to vacate the
arbitration award. Dhawan objects and seeks a attorney’s fees and costs.
Dhawan’s Evidentiary Objections
Dhawan
offers three evidentiary objections: objection 1 SUSTAINED
(mischaracterization), objections 2-3 SUSTAINED (lack of foundation, hearsay). 
Saman’s Petition to Vacate
Arbitration Award
A
party may file a petition to vacate an arbitration award if the arbitrator
exceeded their powers, and the award cannot be corrected without affecting the
merits of the decision upon the controversy submitted. Code Civ. Proc.
§1286.2(a)(4).
Saman
argues the arbitrator failed to address the gravamen of Saman’s argument
regarding rescission. Saman asserts the arbitrator was compelled to address the
rescission argument and by failing to do so, the arbitrator exceeded their
authority. This is inaccurate. The final award addressed Saman’s claims for rescission,
finding Saman had withdrawn his claim and was not entitled to recission. Final
Award 4:12-16. The arbitrator further found there was no mistake of fact which
would allow for recission. Final Award 4:27-5:2. There is no basis to vacate
the final award. DENIED.
Dhawan’s Petition to Confirm
Arbitration Award
“Any
party to an arbitration in which an award has been made may petition the court
to confirm, correct or vacate the award.” Code Civ. Proc. §1285. “If a petition
or response under this chapter is duly served and filed, the court shall
confirm the award as made.” Code Civ. Proc. §1286.
Dhawan
seeks to have this court confirm the arbitration award and seeks attorney’s
fees and costs associated with opposing Saman’s petition to vacate the award.
The contract between Dhawan and Saman provided for recovery of fees and costs.
Decl. Stern para. 6. 
Dhawan
seeks $395/hour x 19.25 hours, plus 3 hours reviewing Saman’s reply and $770.78
in costs, totaling $9,559.53. Decl. Stern paras. 8-9. 
The
hours requested for preparation of the motion seems excessive; 15 hours is
awarded, at the requested hourly rate of $395. As Saman’s reply was 6 pages
with no declarations or exhibits attached, 3 hours seems excessive. Dhawan is
awarded 1 hour for reviewing the reply. Costs are awarded as requested. 
Dhawan’s
petition to confirm the final award and for fees and costs is GRANTED. Fees as
above, 16 hours x $395, plus $770.78, payable within 30 days. 