  Case Number:  23STCP03806    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2025    Dept:  52 Plaintiff Steve Yoonsoo Kim’s Motions to Compel Responses to
Form Interrogatories and Special Interrogatories for Order Recognizing Foreign
Judgment    
Plaintiff Steve Yoonsoo Kim moves to
compel defendant Chris Au to respond to form interrogatories – general, set
one, and to special interrogatories, set one. 
When a party fails to serve a timely response to interrogatories, the
requesting party may move for an order compelling responses.  (CCP § 2030.290(b).)  The responding party also waives any objections.  (Id., subd. (a).)
Defendant
failed to serve timely responses to these discovery requests.  Plaintiff served form interrogatories – general,
set one, and special interrogatories, set one, on defendant by email on September
17, 2024.  (Vakili Decls., ¶¶ 2-3, Ex.
1.)  Defendant had not served responses
as of November 8, 2024, when plaintiff filed both motions to compel responses.  (Id., ¶ 4.)  Plaintiff is therefore entitled to an order compelling defendant to
serve verified responses without objections to these discovery requests.
Sanctions
In each
motion, plaintiff moves for $2,535 in sanctions against defendant.  Failing to respond to an authorized method of
discovery is a misuse of the discovery process subject to monetary
sanctions.  (CCP § 2023.010(d).)  Defendant did not respond to authorized
discovery.  He did not act with
substantial justification.  Sanctions are
just under the circumstances.  
Plaintiff
did not, however, reasonably incur all claimed expenses for the motions.  Each sanction request includes an anticipated
3.7 hours at $450 hourly to review the opposition, draft the reply brief, and
prepare for and attending the hearing. 
(Vakili Decls., ¶ 6.)  Defendant
did not file any opposition.  Plaintiff
did not file any reply.  The court will
therefore reduce each monetary sanction by $1,215, representing 2.7 hours of
attorney fees.  The court will impose
$1,320 in sanctions for each motion.   
Disposition
Plaintiff Steve Yoonsoo Kim’s motion
to compel responses to form interrogatories is granted.  Defendant Chris Au is ordered to serve verified responses without objections to form interrogatories
– general, set one, within 30 days.  Defendant
is ordered to pay plaintiff $1,320 in sanctions within 30 days. 
Plaintiff Steve Yoonsoo Kim’s motion
to compel responses to special interrogatories is granted.  Defendant Chris Au is ordered to serve verified responses without objections to
special interrogatories, set one, within 30 days.  Defendant is ordered to pay plaintiff
$1,320 in sanctions within 30 days. 