 Case Number:  23STCV16061    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION FOR PREFERENCEOn July 10, 2023,
Plaintiff Maria T. Lozano filed an action for personal injury caused by
asbestos exposure.  On February 28, 2024,
Plaintiff filed moved for trial preference under Code of Civil Procedure
section 36, subdivisions (a) and (e).
A party who is over
70 years old may petition the court for a preference, which the court shall
grant if it makes both of the following findings: (1) the party has a
substantial interest in the action as a whole; and (2) the health of the party
is such that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the party’s
interest in the litigation.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 36, subd. (a).)  An affidavit
submitted in support of a motion for preference under this subdivision may be
signed by the attorney for the party seeking preference based upon information
and belief as to the medical diagnosis and prognosis of any party.  (Id., § 36.5.)  Moreover, the court in its discretion may
grant a motion for preference supported by a showing that satisfies the court
that the interests of justice will be served by granting the preference.  (Id., § 36, subd. (e).) 
“Upon the granting
of such a motion for preference, the court shall set the matter for trial not
more than 120 days from that date and there shall be no continuance beyond 120
days from the granting of the motion for preference except for physical disability
of a party or a party’s attorney, or upon a showing of good cause stated in the
record.”  (Id., § 36, subd.
(f).)  “Any continuance shall be for no
more than 15 days and no more than one continuance for physical disability may
be granted to any party.”  (Ibid.)

Plaintiff is 79 years old
and was diagnosed with malignant epithelioid mesothelioma. (Sandoval Decl., at
¶¶ 2-3; Lozano Decl., Ex. A.)  She
suffers from shortness of breath, fatigue, dizziness, extreme pain that
requires powerful medication, and exhaustion.  (Lozano Decl., at ¶¶ 11-14.)  Her condition affects her ability to
concentrate, remain alert, and effectively communicate.  (Id. at ¶ 15.)  Plaintiff has gone through approximately ten
sessions of chemotherapy since July 2023.  (Id. at ¶ 10.)  She has gone to the emergency room four times,
the most recent on February 21, 2024, due to extreme pain.  (Lozano Decl., at ¶ 13; Ex. E.)  Her condition is in serious decline as she has
transitioned from prolonging life treatments of chemotherapy and/or
immunotherapy to home hospice care.  (Sandoval
Decl., at ¶ 10.)
Defendants argue that
Plaintiff’s medical documentation does not indicate immediate deterioration in
her condition and her current health status is unknown.  (DCo’s Opposition at p. 2; Honeywell’s
Opposition at p. 2.)  
The court finds that
Plaintiff has a substantial interest in the action as a whole.  She is in hospice care.  This and the evidence cited above show
Plaintiff’s health is such that a preference is necessary to
prevent prejudicing her interest in the litigation.
Plaintiffs’ motion for
trial setting preference is GRANTED.  The
parties are to meet and confer on a trial setting order.  The trial is scheduled for July 22, 2024 at 9
a.m.  The final status conference is
scheduled for July 8, 2024 at 9 a.m.  A
status conference regarding the trial setting order is set for April 17, 2024
at 9:00 a.m. 
The moving party is to
order to give notice.