  Case Number:  22BBCV00516    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER GRANTING PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSE TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES,
SET ONEI.        INTRODUCTION
          Defendant Brian
Hartstein (Hartstein) was employed by Plaintiff HCMC Legal, Inc. (Hire Counsel)
for over 21 years. He was hired as a salesperson in 2000; from 2011 on he was a
senior manager with a stock ownership interest. Hire Counsel alleges that in June
2022 Hartstein quit with no notice and went to work for a competitor,
thereafter soliciting its customers to the new company and enticing former
co-workers to follow him.
          Before the Court is Plaintiff’s unopposed
motion for an order compelling response to Special Interrogatories, Set One.
Because the evidence shows Defendant failed to respond, the motion is granted.
II.      LEGAL
STANDARD
Code
Civ. Proc. Section 2030.290 provides that when a party to whom interrogatories
has been propounded fails to serve a timely response, that party waives any
objection to the interrogatories; it further provides that the propounding
party may move for an order compelling a response to the interrogatory.
Subdivision (c) provides for monetary sanctions in connection with such motion.
(CCP § 2030.290.)
“The court may impose a monetary sanction ordering
that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney
advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” (CCP §
2023.030(a).) Misuse of the discovery process includes: “(d) failing to respond
or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.” (CCP § 2023.010(d).)
Reasonable expenses under CCP section 2023.030(a) include the time spent in
researching and preparing the motion, as well as court time and travel time
spent in connection with the motion. (Ghanooni
v. Super Shuttle (1993) 20
Cal.App.4th 256, 262.) 
III.     ANALYSIS
          Plaintiff Hire Counsel served Hartstein with Special
Interrogatories, Set One on September 8, 2023 via mail. Responses were due October
10, 2023. On September 22, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel sent a courtesy email to
Hartstein reminding him of the October 10 deadline for response. (Motion p. 3:
4-7, referencing Wulffson Decl. ¶ 5.) Harstein responded that he would not be
able to respond to the discovery request until he had retained counsel.
(Wulffson Decl., Exh. E.) On October 10, 2023, Hartstein served responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set One but did not provide any responsive documents. (Wulffson
Decl., Exh. H.) Parties corresponded for several weeks and Hartstein retained
new counsel. Hartstein’s counsel indicated that responses would be supplemented
“as appropriate” on November 10, 2023. (Wulffson Decl., Exh. S.) 
          This motion was previously calendared for January 12, 2024.
HCMC took it off calendar as Hartstein agreed to supplement his responses. On
March 8, 2024, Counsel for HCMC sent Hartstein a letter that he intended to
refile the motion as she had not received discovery. (See Lubrano Decl. Exh.
AA.) As of the date of the filing of this motion, no responsive documents have
been received nor supplemental discovery responses.
          The motion to compel responses to Special Interrogatories,
Set One is granted. B. Sanctions
Hire
Counsel requests $10,350 in monetary sanctions. Hire Counsel’s request is
accompanied by the declaration of its Counsel, Niki Lubrano. (Lubrano Decl.) Lubrano
declares that she spent 12 hours preparing to compel responses and expects to
spend 6 additional hours responding to Defendant’s opposition and preparing for
the hearing. (Lubrano Decl. ¶ 31.) The blended hourly rate is $575. (Id.) The Court does not find 12 hours a reasonable amount of
time spent on initial discovery motions. 
Therefore, the Court awards six hours for both motions.  Since these motions were unopposed, the Court
declines to award any time for responding to an opposition.  The Court awards one hours for attending the
hearing.  In sum, the Court awards $4,025
in sanctions for both motions. IV.     CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
          Plaintiff’s motion for an order compelling response to Special
Interrogatories, Set One is granted.  Defendant Hartstein
is ordered to provide the requested discovery and pay $4,025 in monetary
sanctions within 30 days of notice of this order.
          Plaintiff Hire Counsel to give notice.      
          
Dated:  6/6/24      
                                           _______________________________
                                                                                  JARED D. MOSES
                                                                     JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT[TENTATIVE]
ORDER GRANTING PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSE TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION I.        INTRODUCTION
          Defendant Brian
Hartstein (Hartstein) was employed by Plaintiff HCMC Legal, Inc. (Hire Counsel)
for over 21 years. He was hired as a salesperson in 2000; from 2011 on he was a
senior manager with a stock ownership interest. Hire Counsel alleges that in
June 2022 Hartstein quit with no notice and went to work for a competitor,
thereafter soliciting its customers to the new company and enticing former
co-workers to follow him.
           Before the Court is Plaintiff’s
unopposed motion for an order compelling response to Requests for Production of
Documents, Set One. Because the evidence shows Defendant failed to respond, the
motion is granted.
II.      LEGAL
STANDARD
“Any
party may obtain discovery by inspecting, copying, testing, or sampling
documents, tangible things, land or other property, and electronically stored
information in the possession, custody, or control of any other party to the
action.” (CCP § 2031.010.) “If a
deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the deponent’s
control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena,
the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order compelling that
answer or production.” (CCP § 2025.480(a).)
“The court may impose a monetary sanction ordering
that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney
advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” (CCP §
2023.030(a).) Misuse of the discovery process includes: “(d) failing to respond
or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.” (CCP § 2023.010(d).)
Reasonable expenses under CCP section 2023.030(a) include the time spent in
researching and preparing the motion, as well as court time and travel time
spent in connection with the motion. (Ghanooni
v. Super Shuttle (1993) 20
Cal.App.4th 256, 262.) “The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel an answer or
production, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust. (CCP § 2025.480(j).)
III.     ANALYSIS
          Plaintiff Hire Counsel served Hartstein with Requests for
Production of Documents, Set One on September 8, 2023 via mail. Responses were
due October 10, 2023. On September 22, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel sent a
courtesy email to Hartstein reminding him of the October 10 deadline for
response. (Motion p. 3: 4-7, referencing Wulffson Decl. ¶ 5.) Harstein
responded that he would not be able to respond to the discovery request until
he had retained counsel. (Wulffson Decl., Exh. E.) On October 10, 2023, Hartstein
served responses to Requests for Production, Set One but did not provide any
responsive documents. (Wulffson Decl., Exh. G.) Parties corresponded for
several weeks and Hartstein retained new counsel. Hartstein’s counsel indicated
that responses would be supplemented “as appropriate” on November 10, 2023.
(Wulffson Decl., Exh. S.) 
This
motion was previously calendared for January 12, 2024. HCMC took it off
calendar as Hartstein agreed to supplement his responses. On March 8, 2024,
Counsel for HCMC sent Hartstein a letter that he intended to refile the motion
as she had not received discovery. (See Lubrano Decl. Exh. AA.) As of the date
of the filing of this motion, no responsive documents have been received nor
supplemental discovery responses. 
The
motion to compel responses to Requests for Production, Set One is granted. 
          B. Sanctions
Hire
Counsel requests $10,350 in monetary sanctions. Hire Counsel’s request is
accompanied by the declaration of its Counsel, Niki Lubrano. (Lubrano Decl.)
Lubrano declares that she spent 12 hours preparing to compel responses and
expects to spend 6 additional hours responding to Defendant’s opposition and
preparing for the hearing. (Lubrano Decl. ¶ 31.) The blended hourly rate is
$575. (Id.)
 The Court does not find 12 hours a reasonable amount of
time spent on initial discovery motions. 
Therefore, the Court awards six hours for both motions.  Since these motions were unopposed, the Court
declines to award any time for responding to an opposition.  The Court awards one hours for attending the
hearing.  In sum, the Court awards $4,025
in sanctions for both motions.
IV.     CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
          Plaintiff’s motion for an order compelling response to
Requests for Production of Documents, Set One is granted.       Defendant Hartstein
is ordered to provide the requested discovery and pay $4,025 in monetary
sanctions within 30 days of notice of this order.       Plaintiff Hire Counsel to give notice.      
          
Dated:  6/6/24                                                  _______________________________
                                                                                  JARED D. MOSES
                                                                     JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT