 Case Number:  23STCV17507    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  29 Demurrer with
Motion to Strike filed by Defendant 815 Green, LLC. 
Tentative
Defendant’s demurrer is taken off calendar by
the moving party, on the terms set forth in the Stipulation and Order filed January
24, 2024.
Defendant’s motion to strike is GRANTED in part, with leave to amend, as
it relates to the punitive damages allegations. 
The motion to strike is otherwise DENIED.  
Background
Plaintiff Suyapa Nunez Sanchez (“Plaintiff”)
alleges that Defendant Julio Melendez-Rodriguez (“Melendez”) was sent by her
landlord, 815 Green, LLC (“Landlord”) to fix certain plumbing issues in Plaintiff’s
apartment.  On July 20 and 28, 2021,
Plaintiff alleges, Melendez grabbed her, kissed her, and committed other acts
of sexual battery against her.
On July 26, 2023, Plaintiff filed the Complaint
in this action.  Plaintiff names as
defendants Melendez, Landlord, and Does 1 through 20.  Plaintiff asserts causes of action for: (1) Negligent
Hiring Retention, Supervision and Failure to Terminate, (2) Common Law Assault,
(3) Common Law Battery, (4) Sexual battery in Violation of Civil Code section
1708.5, (5) Sexual Battery in Violation of Civil Code section 51.7, (6)
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, (7) Premises Liability, and (8)
Violation of the Tom Bane Civil Rights Act Civil Code section 52.1.  Plaintiff includes in her Complaint a prayer
for punitive damages against all defendants and alter ego/joint venture
allegations against all defendants (including the Doe defendants).  (Complaint, ¶¶ 9-10, 12-14; Prayer for
Relief, item 2, on page 14.)  
On December 20, 2023, Landlord filed a
demurrer and a motion to strike.  Plaintiff
filed her opposition on January 11, and Landlord filed its reply on January 18.
On January 24, the Court approved the
stipulation of Plaintiff and Landlord in which: (1) Plaintiff dismissed
the Fourth, Fifth, and Eighth Causes of Action against Landlord without
prejudice; (2) Landlord withdrew its demurrer to the Seventh Cause of Action
(premises liability); (3) Plaintiff struck her demand for attorney’s fees
against Landlord; (4) Landlord took its demurrer off calendar; and (5)
Landlord’s motion to strike the punitive damages and alter ego allegations in
the Complaint remains on calendar.
The parties have satisfied the applicable
meet-and-confer requirements for a motion to strike, as evidenced by the declaration
of counsel and the stipulation.
Legal
Standard 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 436 provides:
“The court
may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: 
 (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. 
 (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading
not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or
an order of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 436.)
“The grounds for
a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from
any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437, subd. (a).)  In ruling on a motion to strike, the court
must assume the truth of the properly pleaded facts in the complaint or other challenged
pleading.  (Turman v. Turning Point of Central
California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.)
Discussion
Punitive Damages
In her Complaint, Plaintiff initially
asserted five causes of action against Landlord: (1) Negligent Hiring,
Retention, Supervision, and/or Failure to Terminate (First Cause of Action);
(2) Sexual Battery in Violation of Civil Code Section 1708.5 (Fourth Cause of
Action); (3) Sexual Battery in Violation of the Ralph Civil Rights Act, Civil
Code section 51.7 (Fifth Cause of Action); (4) Premises Liability (Seventh
Cause of Action); and (5) Violation of Tom Bane Civil Rights Act, Civil Code
section 52.1.  
Following the stipulation, the claims against
Landlord that remain in the Complaint are the two common law claims (for
negligent hiring, retention, supervision, and/or failure to terminate and for
premises liability).
In the Complaint, however, the only claims against
Landlord as to which Plaintiff sought punitive damages were the statutory
claims – the Fourth, Fifth, and Eighth Causes of Action, which have been dismissed
without prejudice.  Therefore, it is
unclear to the Court whether Plaintiff continues to seek to recover punitive
damages against Landlord.
Nonetheless, item 2 of the Prayer for Relief
remains and seeks punitive damages against all defendants.  In addition, from the text of the stipulation,
it appears that Plaintiff still seeks to recover punitive damages from
Landlord.  Accordingly, the Court finds
that the issue is not moot, and the Court now turns to the merits of the motion
to strike the punitive damages allegations against Landlord in the Complaint.
“‘In order to
state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a complaint must set forth the
elements as stated in the general punitive damage statute, Civil Code section
3294.” (Today IV’s Inc. v. Los Angeles County MTA (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th
1137, 1193.) Civil Code section 3294 provides that on non-contract causes of
action, plaintiffs may recover punitive damages when they prove “by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)  
“Oppression” is
defined as “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust
hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2).)  “Fraud” is defined as “an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(3).)  “Malice” is
defined as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the
plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).)  The term “despicable,” which is used in the definition of
“oppression” and “malice” refers to actions that are “base,” “vile,” or
“contemptible.” (See, e.g., Shade Foods, Inc. v. Innovative Products Sales
& Marketing, Inc. (2000) 78 Cal. App. 4th 847, 891.) In general, punitive damages are appropriate if the
defendant's acts are reprehensible, fraudulent or in blatant violation of law
or policy. (American Airlines, Inc. v. Sheppard, Mullin, Richter &
Hampton (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 1017.)
To show that a
defendant acted with “willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety
of others,” it is not enough to establish negligence, gross negligence or even
recklessness. (Dawes v. Super. Ct. (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 82, 87.)
Rather, a plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating that “the defendant acted
in such an outrageous and reprehensible manner that the jury could infer that
he knowingly disregarded the substantial certainty of injury to others.” (Id.
at p. 90). Further, the allegations must be sufficient for a reasonable jury to
conclude that defendant’s conduct was “despicable,” defined as “base, vile or
contemptible.” (College Hosp., Inc. v. Super. Ct.
(1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.)
When punitive damages are sought against an
employer for the acts of an employee, a plaintiff must plead, and ultimately
prove, that “the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the
employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights and
safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the
damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (b).)  When punitive damages are sought against a
corporate employer, “the advance knowledge and conscious disregard,
authorization, ratification, or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on
the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.”  (Ibid.)
In a complaint, the plaintiff
must allege specific facts showing that the defendant
has been guilty of malice, oppression or fraud. (Id. at p. 721.) The
basis for punitive damages must be pleaded with particularity; conclusory
allegations devoid of any factual assertions are insufficient. (Smith v.
Super. Ct. (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042.; see also Anschutz
Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643.) 
The Court
has carefully reviewed the Complaint as well as the argument presented by both
sides.  Based upon its independent review
of the Complaint, the Court finds that Plaintiff has not alleged facts
sufficient to support a claim for punitive damages against Landlord.  More than mere negligence is required to recover
punitive damages, and, labels and conclusions aside, the Complaint does not
contain factual allegations of oppression, fraud, or malice by Landlord; factual
allegations that Landlord had advance knowledge of Melendez’s unfitness and
nonetheless employed him with conscious disregard for the safety of others; or factual
allegations that Landlord authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct.
Accordingly,
the motion to strike is GRANTED in part.
As this is
Plaintiff’s first pleading, and there is at least a reasonable possibility that
Plaintiff may address the pleading defect through amendment, the Court GRANTS
Plaintiff LEAVE TO AMEND.
Alter
Ego/Joint Enterprise Liability
Both alter ego and joint enterprise (sometimes
called “single enterprise”) are recognized bases for derivative liability under
California law.  (E.g., Mesler v. Bragg Management Co.
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 290, 300; A.J.
Fistes Corp. v. GDL Best Contractors, Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677, 696-697; Gopal v. Kaiser
Foundation Health Plan (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 425, 431-432; Automotriz
Del Golfo de California SA de CV v. Resnick (1957) 47 Cal.2d 792, 796.)  
Alter ego is the more developed theory
of liability.  “The alter ego doctrine arises when a
plaintiff comes into court claiming that an opposing party is using the
corporate form unjustly and in derogation of the plaintiff’s interests. In
certain circumstances the court will disregard the corporate entity and will
hold the individual shareholders liable for the actions of the
corporation.”  (Mesler, supra, 39
Cal.3d at p. 300 [citations omitted].)
The
corporate veil may be pierced “where an abuse of the corporate privilege
justifies holding the equitable ownership of a corporation liable for the
actions of the corporation.” (Sonora Diamond Corp. v Superior Court
(2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 523, 538.) “Under the alter ego doctrine, . . . when the
corporate form is used to . . . accomplish some [] wrongful or inequitable
purpose, the courts will ignore the corporate entity and deem the corporation’s
acts to be those of the persons or organizations actually controlling the
corporation, in most instances the equitable owners.” (Ibid.)  
“In
California, two conditions must be met before the alter ego doctrine will be
invoked. First, there must be such a unity of interest and ownership between
the corporation and its equitable owner that the separate personalities of the
corporation and the shareholder do not in reality exist. Second, there must be
an inequitable result if the acts in question are treated as those of the
corporation alone. … Among the factors to be considered in applying the
doctrine are commingling of funds and other assets of the two entities, the
holding out by one entity that it is liable for the debts of the other,
identical equitable ownership in the two entities, use of the same offices and
employees, and use of one as a mere shell or conduit for the affairs of the other.
… Other factors which have been described in the case law include inadequate
capitalization, disregard of corporate formalities, lack of segregation of
corporate records, and identical directors and officers. … No one
characteristic governs, but the courts must look at all the circumstances to
determine whether the doctrine should be applied.” 
(Id. at pp. 538-539; see also, e.g., A.J. Fistes Corp., supra, 38 Cal.App.5th at pp. 696-697; Toho-Towa Co. v.
Morgan Creek Prods., Inc. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 1096, 1108-1109; Leek
v. Cooper (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 399, 417-418.)  
To plead alter ego liability, a
plaintiff must plead ultimate facts showing “a unity of interest and ownership,
and an unjust result if the treated as the sole actor.”  (Leek, supra, 194 Cal.App.4th at p. 415.)  
Joint enterprise is a related, but
less well developed doctrine.  In
general, joint enterprise liability attaches when a single business enterprise
is divided among several corporate entities, and disregarding the separate nature
of the individual corporate entities is necessary to prevent fraud, circumvention
of a statute, or some other wrongful or inequitable result.  (Gopal, supra, 248 Cal.App.4th
at pp. 431-432.)  
To plead joint enterprise theory
liability, a plaintiff must plead “(1) such a unity of interest and ownership
that the separate corporate personalities are merged, so that one corporation
is a mere adjunct of another or the two companies form a single enterprise, and
(2) an inequitable result if the acts in question are treated as those of one
corporation alone.”  (Id. at p. 432.)  
Here, the Complaint adequately alleges
the ultimate facts that, if proven, would support recovery under an alter ego
or a joint enterprise theory.  Among
other things, Plaintiff alleges “that there exists such a unity of interest and
ownership between Landlord and Does 1-20 that the individuality and
separateness of defendants have ceased to exist”; that “Landlord and Does 1-20
are, in reality, one and the same”; that Landlord and Does 1 through 20 “hide
behind” the corporate form “to perpetrate frauds, circumvent statutes, or
accomplish some other wrongful or inequitable purpose”; that Landlord and Does
1 through 20 use “one another as the funding source for their own personal
expenditures”; that Landlord and Does 1 through 20, “while really one and the
same, were segregated to appear as though separate and distinct for purposes of
perpetrating a fraud, circumventing a statute, or accomplishing some other wrongful
or inequitable purpose; that “Landlord does not comply with all requisite
corporate formalities to maintain a legal and separate corporate existence”; that
the “business affairs of Landlord and Does 1-20 are, and at all times relevant
were, so mixed and intermingled that the same cannot reasonably be segregated,
and the same are in inextricable confusion”; that Landlord was “used by Does
1-20 as a mere shell and conduit for the conduct of certain Defendants’ affairs”;
and the “recognition of the separate existence of Defendants would not promote
justice” and would lead to fraud or inequitable results.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 12, 13, 13(a)-(e).)  These allegations are sufficient to plead
viable claims for alter ego liability and enterprise liability.  (Rutherford Holdings, LLC v. Plaza Del Rey
(2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 221, 235.)
Accordingly, Landlord’s motion to
strike the alter ego and common enterprise allegations in the Complaint is
DENIED.
The Court’s ruling is, of course, limited to the
adequacy of the pleading, the only issue currently before the Court.  The Court accepts as true the allegations in
the Complaint and expresses no views on whether there is any merit to such allegations.
Conclusion
Landlord’s demurrer is taken off calendar by
the moving party, on the terms set forth in the Stipulation and Order filed January
24, 2024.
Landlord’s motion to strike is GRANTED in
part and DENIED in part.  The following portions
of the Complaint are stricken: paragraph 25 (only as it relates to Landlord;
the allegations remain in the complaint as to the other defendants); item 2 in
the Prayer for Relief (only as it relates to Landlord; the prayer remains in
the complaint as to the other defendants). 
The motion is otherwise DENIED.
Plaintiff is GRANTED leave to amend within 21
days of notice.
Landlord is ordered to give notice. 