 Case Number:  22STCV19757    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to be Relieved as Counsel, filed by Plaintiff’s
Counsel Nathan Samooha.
 
Tentative
The motion is GRANTED.
Background
On June, 16, 2022, Maria Becerra (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants MV
Transportation, Inc, LADOT Transit, City of Los Angeles, County of Los Angeles,
and Does 1 through 100 for the causes of action General Negligence and Motor
Vehicle Negligence. No proof of service has been filed in this matter. 
On December 5, 2023, Nathan Samooha filed a motion to be relieved as
counsel for Plaintiff. No opposition has been filed. 
 
Legal
Standard
The court may order that an attorney be changed or
substituted at any time before or after judgment or final determination upon
request by either client or attorney and after notice from one to the other.
(Code of Civ. Proc., § 284(b).) An attorney is permitted to withdraw where
conflicts between the attorney and client make it unreasonable to continue the
representation. (See Cal. Rules of Prof. Conduct 3-700(C)(1).) “The
determination whether to grant or deny a motion to withdraw as counsel lies
within the sound discretion of the trial court.” (Manfredi & Levine v.
Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1133.)   
 
An application to be relieved as counsel must be made on
Judicial Counsel Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion) (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362(a)), MC-052 (Declaration) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.136(c)), and MC-053 (Proposed Order) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362(e)).   
 
Further, the requisite forms must be served on the client
and all other parties who have appeared in the case. (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1362(d).) The court may delay effective date of the order relieving
counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on the client has
been filed with the court. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(e).) 
 
Discussion
Counsel has
filed the Notice, Declaration, and Order to be Relieved as Counsel. On the
Declaration, Counsel states there has been a breakdown of the attorney client
relationship. Counsel has been unable to confirm Plaintiff’s last known address
but has attempted to locate a more current address by calling Plaintiff,
contacting Plaintiff’s aunt, and conducting a TLO search. 
Counsel has
satisfied all procedural and substantive requirements for the motion. 
Accordingly, the
motion is GRANTED.
Conclusion
The motion to be
relieved as counsel is GRANTED.
The order is
effective upon the filing with the Court of a proof of service of the signed
order upon the client.
Moving counsel
is ordered to give notice.