 Case Number:  21STCV42289    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint and to Continue  Trial filed by Caliber Paving Company.   Tentative The Court GRANTS Caliber’s motion  for leave to file a cross-complaint. The  Court GRANTS Caliber’s motion to continue trial.   Background This case arises out of an alleged slip and fall on  December 4, 2019, at a grocery store on Ventura Boulevard in Tarzana. On November  16, 2021, Plaintiff Sergey Tsoi (“Plaintiff”) filed the Complaint in this  action asserting causes of action for negligence and premises liability against  Defendants The Vons Companies, Inc. (“Vons”), Safeway Inc. (“Safeway”),  Ennis-Flint, Inc. (“Ennis-Flint”), Dawn Doe, and Does 1 through 50. On August 30, 2022, Vons filed its Answer to the  Complaint and a Cross-Complaint for declaratory relief and equitable indemnity against  Ennis-Flint, Caliber Paving Company, Inc. (“Caliber”), and Roes 1 through 10.  Caliber filed its Answer to the  Cross-Complaint on December 2, 2022. On January 5, 2023, Plaintiff amended his complaint to  name Caliber as Doe 1.  Caliber filed its  Answer to the Complaint on February 17, 1023. On October 6, 2023, the Court, at the request of  Plaintiff, dismissed the claims in the Complaint against Safeway without prejudice. Trial is currently set for April 8, 2024. On December 28, 2023, Caliber filed this motion for leave  to file a cross-complaint and to continue the trial date.  The proposed cross-complaint asserts claims  for declaratory relief, equitable indemnity, and express indemnity against Vons  and Moes 1 through 20.  The requested  continuance is based on a motion for summary judgment that Caliber plans to  file, but has not yet filed; Caliber has reserved a hearing date of April 29,  2024 for its motion. Vons filed an opposition to the motion on January  10.  Caliber filed a reply on January 18. Legal Standard Motion for Leave to File a Cross-Complaint “A party  against whom a cause of action has been asserted in a complaint or  cross-complaint may file a cross-complaint setting forth … [a]ny cause of  action he has against any of the parties who filed the complaint or  cross-complaint against him.”  (Code Civ.  Proc., § 428.10 & subd. (a).)  Such a  cross-complaint may generally be filed as of right “before or at the same time  as the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50, subd. (a).)  A party seeking to file a cross-complaint at  a later date must obtain leave of the court.   (Id., subd. (c).)  “Leave  may be granted in the interest of justice at any time during the course of the action.”  (Ibid.) Cross-complaints  may be compulsory or permissive.  “[I]f a  party against whom a complaint [or cross-complaint] has been filed and served  fails to allege in a cross-complaint any related cause of action which (at the  time of serving his answer to the complaint) he has against the plaintiff, such  party may not thereafter in any other action assert against the plaintiff [or  cross-complainant] the related cause of action not pleaded.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.30, subd. (a).)  In other words, the cross-complaint is compulsory.  A “related cause of action” is defined as “a  cause of action which arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series  of transactions or occurrences, as the cause of action which the plaintiff [or  cross-complainant] alleges in his complaint [or cross-complaint].”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.10, subd. (c).  With  regard to compulsory cross-complaints, the Legislature has provided: “A party  who fails to plead a cause of action subject to the requirements of this  article, whether through oversight, inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other  cause, may apply to the court for leave to amend his pleading, or to file a  cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time during the course of the  action.  The court, after notice to the  adverse party, shall grant, upon such terms as may be just to the parties,  leave to amend the pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to assert such  cause if the party who failed to plead the cause acted in good faith.  This subdivision shall be liberally construed  to avoid forfeiture of causes of action.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50.) Other cross-complaints  are permissive.  Requests for leave to  file permissive cross-complaints are evaluated under the broad, and largely  discretionary, “interests of justice” test.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50, subd. (c); Crocker  Nat’l Bank v. Emerald (1990) 221 Cal.App.3d 852, 864.)   Motion to Continue Trial Code of  Civil Procedure section 128, subdivision (a)(8), provides that the court has  the power to amend and control its process and orders so as to make them  conform to law and justice. “The power to determine when a continuance should  be granted is within the discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue, Inc. v.  Abrams (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide latitude  in the matter of calendar control including the granting or denying of  continuances.” (Park Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12,  18.)   Each  request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)  The court may grant a continuance only on an  affirmative showing of good cause. Circumstances that may indicate good cause  include:   “(1) The  unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,  or other excusable circumstances;   (2) The  unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable  circumstances;   (3) The  unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable  circumstances;   (4) The  substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing  that the substitution is required in the interests of justice;   (5) The  addition of a new party if: (A) The new party has not had a reasonable  opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or (B) The other  parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare  for trial in regard to the new party's involvement in the case;   (6) A  party's excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other  material evidence despite diligent efforts; or    (7) A  significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of  which the case is not ready for trial.”   (Cal.  Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)  California  Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d) sets forth a list of non-exhaustive factors to  be analyzed when determining whether good cause for a trial continuance is  present. A court may consider factors such as:    “(1) The  proximity of the trial date;   (2)  Whether there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of  trial due to any party;   (3) The  length of the continuance requested;   (4) The  availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the  motion or application for a continuance;    (5) The  prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;   (6) If  the case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that  status and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid  delay;  (7) The  court's calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending  trials;  (8)  Whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial;   (9)  Whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance;   (10)  Whether the interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial  of the matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and   (11) Any  other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or  application.”   (Cal.  Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)  “A trial  court may not refuse to hear a summary judgment motion filed within the time  limits of section 437c.” (Sentry Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 207  Cal.App.3d 526, 529; accord Cole v. Superior Court (2022) 87 Cal.App.5th  84, 88.) Discussion Motion for Leave to File a Cross-Complaint Caliber  seeks leave to file a cross-complaint against Vons.  From the moving papers, it is unclear whether  Caliber contends that its proposed cross-complaint is compulsory or permissive,  as Caliber cites case law and statutory authority involving both compulsory and  permissive cross-complaints.  In its  reply, however, Caliber states unequivocally (on page 3) its position that the proposed  cross-complaint is compulsory. The  proposed cross-complaint involves claims for indemnity and declaratory relief for  the accident at issue.  These causes of  action arise out of the same “transaction” or “occurrence” as the causes of  action which Vons asserts against Caliber in its cross-complaint (filed in  August 2022).  (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.10,  subd. (c).  Thus, Caliber’s proposed  cross-complaint appears to be compulsory. There is  no evidence sufficient to support a finding that Caliber has acted in bad  faith.  Accordingly, the Court must grant  Caliber’s motion for leave to file its proposed cross-complaint and thereby  avoid forfeiture of causes of action.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50.) Moreover,  even if Caliber’s proposed cross-complaint were permissive, the Court would  still exercise its discretion to grant Caliber leave to file it.  The claims in Caliber’s cross-complaint are  in certain respects a mirror image of the claims in Vons’ cross-complaint  against Caliber, and in any event the interests of judicial economy and  efficiency are served by resolving all of the competing claims of  responsibility for Plaintiff’s alleged injuries in a single proceeding. To the  extent that Vons contends that Caliber’s cross-complaint injects new issues into  the proceeding (such as contractual indemnity), Vons may of course seek a reasonable  continuance of trial to conduct additional discovery.  A continuance, rather than forcing Caliber to  file a separate action (and then possibly attempt to relate and ultimately consolidate  the two actions), will best allow for the orderly resolution of the various  claims and defenses of the parties.  The  motion for leave to file a cross-complaint is GRANTED. Motion to Continue Trial Caliber  also requests a brief continuance of trial so that its summary judgment motion  may be heard.  No party opposes this  request.  The Court finds that Caliber  has made an adequate showing of good cause for its requested continuance.  And, indeed, a continuance may also help address  the concerns expressed by Vons in regard to the proposed cross-complaint. The  motion to continue trial is GRANTED. Conclusion The Court GRANTS Caliber’s motion  for leave to file a cross-complaint. The  Court GRANTS Caliber leave to file the cross-complaint attached to the moving  papers within 14 days. The  Court GRANTS Caliber’s motion to continue trial.   The  Court advances and continues the trial date to a date in mid June 2024.  The Final Status and all deadlines are reset  based on the new trial date.Final Status Conference is continued to 05/30/2024 at 10:00 AM in Department 29 at Spring 
Street Courthouse. Non-Jury Trial is continued to 06/13/2024 at 08:30 AM in Department 29 at 
Spring Street Courthouse. Moving  party is ordered to give notice.