 Case Number:  22STCV26406    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  29  
TENTATIVE
The Court will hear from counsel.
Background
On August 15, 2022, Plaintiff Dora Lidia Cazarez-Acosta
(“Plaintiff”) filed the Complaint in this action against Defendants Bubba Gump
Shrimp Co. Restaurants, Inc., Universal Studios Hollywood, and Does 1 through
50, alleging that she sustained injuries on August 7, 2021, on premises owned, operated,
controlled, managed, or maintained by Defendants.  Plaintiff asserts causes of action for
premises liability and general negligence.
On September 16, 2022, Defendants Bubba Gump Shrimp Co.
Restaurants, Inc. (“Bubba Gump”) and Universal Studios LLC dba Universal
Citywalk Hollywood (erroneously sued as Universal Studios Hollywood) (“Universal”)
filed their answer.
On April 3, 2023, Plaintiff filed four motions to compel: (1)
motion to compel Universal to provide further responses to Form Interrogatories
(Set One) and Special Interrogatories (Set One); (2) motion to compel Universal
to provide further responses to Requests for Production (Set One); (3) motion
to compel Bubba Gump to provide further responses to Form Interrogatories (Set One)
and Special Interrogatories (Set One); and (4) motion to compel Bubba Gump to provide
further responses to Requests for Production (Set One).  Oppositions and replies were filed.
On August 15 and 16, the motions came on for hearing.  The Court continued the hearings on all four
motions, as the parties had not participated in an Informal Discovery
Conference (“IDC”) as required by the Eighth Amended Standing Order for
Procedures in the Personal Injury Hub Courtrooms (the “Standing Order”), at page
7.  The new hearing date for all four
motions was December 15, 2023.  The Court
then, on its own motion, continued the hearings to January 25, 2024.
It is now more than five months since the Court continued the
hearings and directed the parties to comply with the Standing Order.  Still, no IDC has been conducted, or even
scheduled.  It is unclear to the Court whether
Plaintiff wishes to proceed with the motions (and, if so, why Plaintiff has not
complied with the Court’s orders).