  Case Number:  20STCV17551    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  29  
Tentative
The motion to compel is taken off calendar.
Background
Plaintiffs Melinda Rosenthal
(“Plaintiff”) filed suit against Advance Auto Parts, Inc., WORLDPAC, Inc.,
Wheels, Inc., Onorio Perez, and DOES 1 through
50, alleging damages from an auto incident. Plaintiff filed a Complaint on May
8, 2020, for the causes of action of Motor Vehicle Negligence and General
Negligence. 
 
On May 2, 2022, Plaintiff amended her
complaint to name Advance Stores Company, Inc., as Does 1.
 
On May 12,
2022, Defendants Advance Stores Company, Inc.,
WORLDPAC, Inc., Advanced Auto Parts, Inc., and Onorio Perez (collectively
“Defendants”) filed Answers to the Complaint.
 
On May
31, 2022, Defendants served Plaintiff with Request for Production of Documents
(Set One), Form Interrogatories (Set One), and Special Interrogatories (Set One).  (Norman Decl., ¶ 3 & Exh. A.)  After multiple extensions, on November 30, 2022,
Plaintiff served objection-only responses to all three sets of discovery.  (Id., Exh. C.)  (Counsel’s declaration states that Plaintiff
served objection-only responses to the Form Interrogatories and Requests for
Production, and never served any objection to the Special Interrogatories, but
the contents of Exhibit C to counsel’s declaration are to the contrary: objection-only
responses to all three sets of discovery were served in November 2022.)
 
On March
27, 2023, Defendants filed the Motions to Compel
Plaintiff’s Responses to Defendant’s Request for Production of Documents (Set One),
Form Interrogatories (Set One) and Special Interrogatories (Set One).
 
Plaintiff did not file a timely opposition.  
 
On the evening of January 24, 2024,
less than 24 hours before the hearing, however, Plaintiff filed an “objection”
stating that she had provided responses earlier that day and that therefore the
motion was moot.  Plaintiff also pointed
out that Defendants had not participated in an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”),
as required by the Eighth Amended Standing Order for Procedures in the Personal
Injury Hub Courtrooms.
 
Legal Standard
A party
must respond to interrogatories within 30 days after service. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2030.260, subd.(a).) If a party to whom interrogatories are directed
does not provide a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order
compelling response to the interrogatories. (Id., § 2030.290, subd.
(b).) There is no time limit for a motion to compel initial responses, and no
meet and confer efforts are required. (See id., § 2030.290; Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 390, 411.) Nor must a separate statement be filed. (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1345(b)(1).)  In addition,
a party who fails to provide a timely response generally waives all
objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290,
subd. (a).) 
When a
party moves to compel initial responses to interrogatories, “the court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes [the
motion], unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2030.290, subd. (c).)
A party
must respond to requests for production of documents within 30 days after
service. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.260, subd.(a).) If a party to whom requests
for production of documents are directed does not provide timely responses, the
requesting party may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Id.,
§ 2031.300, subd. (b).) There is no time limit for a motion to compel initial
responses, and no meet and confer efforts are required. (See id., §
2031.300; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare
Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 411.) Nor must a separate statement
be filed. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(b)(1).)  In addition, a party who fails to provide a
timely response generally waives all objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a).) 
When a party moves to compel initial
responses to requests for production, “the court shall impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes [the motion], unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd.
(c).)
In Chapter 7 of the Civil Discovery
Act, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.010, subdivision (d), defines
“[m]isuses of the discovery process” to include “[f]ailing to respond to or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery.” 
Where a party or attorney has engaged in misuse of the discovery
process, the court may impose a monetary sanction in the amount of “the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2023.020, subd. (a).)
“[P]roviding
untimely responses does not divest the trial court of its authority [to hear a
motion to compel responses].”  (Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc., supra, 148 Cal.App.4th at p. 407.)  Even if the untimely response “does not
contain objections [and] substantially resolve[s] the issues raised by a motion
to compel responses … the trial court retains the authority to hear the
motion.”  (Id. at pp. 408-409.)  This rule gives “an important
incentive for parties to respond to discovery in a timely fashion.”  (Id.
at p. 408.)  If “the propounding party [does not] take the motion off
calendar or narrow its scope to the issue of sanctions,” the trial court may
“deny the motion to compel responses as essentially unnecessary, in whole or in
part, and just impose sanctions.”  (Id. at p. 409.) “The court may
award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion
to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or
opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided
to the moving party after the motion was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1348(a).)  
Discussion
Defendants
served Plaintiff with Request for Production of Documents (Set One), Form
Interrogatories (Set One), and Special Interrogatories (Set One) in May 2022.  (Norman Decl., ¶ 3 & Exh. A.)  After multiple extensions, Plaintiff provided
objection-only responses to all three sets of discovery requests.  (Id., Exh. C.)
 
The
remedy for improper objection-only responses may be obtained through filing a motion
to compel further responses, and scheduling an IDC prior to the hearing.  Defendants did not do so.  Instead, Defendants filed a motion to compel
initial responses, citing Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.300, and never
scheduled an IDC.
 
If the objection-only
responses were still in dispute, the Court would continue the hearing and
direct Defendants to schedule an IDC prior to the hearing.  As Plaintiff has, however, provided
substantive responses (albeit at the eleventh hour), the Court will take Defendants’
motion off calendar.
 
Moreover,
the Court does not award any monetary sanctions to Defendants.  Defendants may well have had a meritorious
motion to compel further responses, but Defendants did not properly file such a
motion and schedule an IDC prior to the hearing.
 
Conclusion
 
The
Court takes off calendar Defendants’ motion to compel as to the Request for
Production of Documents, Form Interrogatories, and Special Interrogatories.
 
Moving party is
ORDERED to give notice.
 