  Case Number:  23SMCV00432    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Geske’s General
Engineering, Inc. v. Wickham Group, LLC, et al. Case No. 23SMCV00432
Hearing Date: July
18, 2024
Defendant Timothy
Wickham’s Motion for Stay Pending Resolution of Criminal Charges 
 
Plaintiff Geske’s
General Engineering sued Wickham Group, Inc., William Wickham, Wickham Group,
LLC, Timothy Wickham and Tyerman for claims arising out of alleged failure to
pay for subcontracting services on a residential construction project. Homeowner
Tyerman cross-complained against plaintiff and defendants for negligence,
breach of contract, express indemnity and disgorgement.
 
Defendant Wickham
is charged with theft of funds from Tyerman in a pending criminal matter, Case
No. 23VWCF00089-01. Def. Motion, p. 5; Burns Decl. ¶3. Timothy Wickham moves to
stay this matter pending resolution of the criminal matter.
 
Evidentiary
Objections
Tyerman
Objections:
Objections 1-2
SUSTAINED (lack of personal knowledge); Objections 3, 6 SUSTAINED (speculation);
Objection 4 OVERRULED; Objection 5 SUSTAINED (lack of foundation).
 
Motion for Stay
An application for
a stay is addressed to the sound discretion of the trial court. Thomson v.
Continental Ins. Co. (1967) 66 Cal.2d 738, 746. An order staying discovery
until determination of criminal charges allows plaintiff to prepare his or her
action “while alleviating [defendant’s] difficult choice between defending
either the civil or criminal case.” Pacers, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1984) 162 Cal.App.3d 686, 690.
 
Neither the U.S.
nor California constitutions require a stay of civil proceedings pending the
outcome of criminal proceedings, but trial courts have discretion to stay if
there would be substantial prejudice to the rights of the parties involved and
when interests of justice require. Keating v. Office of Thrift Supervision
(9th Cir. 1995) 45 F.3d 322, 324; see also, People v. Coleman, (1975) 13
Cal.3d 867, 885; Alpha Media Resort Inv. Cases (2019) 39 Ca1.App.5th
1121, 1131-1133; Avant! Corp. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 876, 882. The court
has an interest in expeditiously processing matters, so “convenience of the
courts is best served when motions to stay proceedings are discouraged.” Alpha,
supra, at 1132, quoting Avant!, supra, at 888. “Indeed, California
courts are ‘guided by the strong principle that any elapsed time other than
that reasonably required for pleadings and discovery is unacceptable and should
be eliminated.” Id., quoting Cal. Stds. Jud. Admin. §2. 
 
Per Evidence Code
sec. 940, civil defendants may refuse to disclose self-incriminating
information in discovery when facing criminal prosecution involving the same
facts that may be used against them in criminal proceedings. Pacers, supra,
at 688. To not penalize civil defendants from exercising their privilege
against self-incrimination by making them choose between silence and a
meaningful chance of avoiding the loss through judicial process of a
substantial amount of property, when confronted with this issue, trial courts
should stay discovery pending expiration of the criminal statute of limitations
or resolution of the criminal case. Id. at 688-690.
 
Wickham argues the
following factors weigh in favor of a stay: “(1) the interest of the plaintiffs
in proceeding expeditiously with this litigation or any particular aspect of
it, and the potential prejudice to plaintiffs of a delay; (2) the burden which
any particular aspect of the proceedings may impose on defendants; (3) the
convenience of the court in the management of its cases, and the efficient use
of judicial resources; (4) the interests of persons not parties to the civil
litigation; and (5) the interest of the public in the pending civil and
criminal litigation.” Avant!, supra, at 885.
 
Wickham argues his
Fifth Amendment rights are implicated, as the cases involve the same
allegations and facts, so he cannot respond to discovery without forfeiting his
Fifth Amendment rights. The motion cites specific discovery requests which Wickham
argues implicate his Fifth Amendment rights.
 
Tyerman argues Wickham
may assert his Fifth Amendment rights in response to individual items of
discovery but alleges most issues in this action are unrelated to the criminal matter.
 
In reviewing the
discovery, it appears most of the requests for admission do not pertain to
events that are the subject of the criminal matter, Wickham’s alleged theft
from Tyerman. Defendant provided the court with examples of specific
information sought which might implicate his Fifth Amendment rights, but this
is by no means the entirety of the discovery propounded upon him. 
 
Per Evidence Code
section 940, nothing prevents Wickham from objecting to individual discovery
requests based on his Fifth Amendment rights if the information sought may
reasonably be used against him in the criminal matter. 
 
The court
recognizes the parties’ strong in proceeding expeditiously with this litigation.
Staying this matter indefinitely pending outcome of the criminal matter may
prejudice plaintiff and cross-complainant, who wish to have their claims
adjudicated.
 
Further, other defendants
who do not face criminal prosecution, including the entity defendants, can
respond to and participate in discovery fully. The entity defendants do not
have Fifth Amendment privileges, are not the subject of criminal prosecution, and
may respond to discovery. The request to stay is overbroad and implicates the
rights of all parties. Wickham’s Fifth Amendment rights can be protected via a
more limited means – objection to individual items of discovery on privilege
grounds. DENIED.