 Case Number:  24SMCV01124    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Rickfors,
et al. v. Nassir, et al., Case No. 24SMCV01124
Hearing
Date July 18, 2024 
Defendants
Mountainfield P01, LLC, Nassir, and Alfa Real Estate Group LLC’s Demurrer
 
Plaintiff
investors partnered with defendants to purchase and develop a property in
Beverly Hills. Plaintiffs allege defendant Nassir changed the equity structure
of the venture, signed loan documents on plaintiff Toxboe's behalf without permission
and undermined plaintiffs’ interests. 
Plaintiffs
sue for breach of contract, quasi-contract, promissory estoppel, false promise
fraud, dissolution of partnership, declaratory relief, cancellation of written
instrument, judicial foreclosure and partition. Defendants demur to the fifth,
eighth, and ninth causes of action. 
 
Request
for Judicial Notice
Defendants’
request for judicial notice of the property deed (RJN Exh. 1) and Redemption
Agreement (RJN Exh. 2) is granted as to existence of the documents only.
 
On
demurrer, a court’s function is limited to testing the legal sufficiency of the
complaint. A demurrer is not the appropriate procedure for determining the
truth of disputed facts. Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp.
(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 113-114. It is error to sustain a demurrer where
plaintiff “has stated a cause of action under any possible legal theory. In
assessing the sufficiency of a demurrer, all material facts pleaded in the
complaint and those which arise by reasonable implication are deemed true.” Bush
v. Cal. Conservation Corps (1982) 136 Cal.App.3d 194, 200. In determining a
demurrer, the court assumes the truth of the facts alleged in the complaint and
the reasonable inferences that may be drawn from those facts. Miklosy v.
Regents of University of California (2008) 44 Cal.4th 876, 883. On
demurrer, the court must determine if the factual allegations are adequate to
state a cause of action under any legal theory. Barquis v. Merchants
Collection Ass’n. (1972) 7 Cal.3d 94, 103. 
 
Dissolution of Partnership
A cause of action for dissolution is proper when “it is not reasonably
practicable to carry on the activities of the limited partnership in conformity
with the partnership agreement.” Panakosta,
Partners, LP v. Hammer Lane Mgmt., LLC (2011) 199
Cal.App.4th 612, 628. 
 
The complaint alleges defendant Nassir made representations to
plaintiffs “that he would be entitled to only an equal division of the profits
of Mountainfield P01, LLC’s share from the venture upon completion, that he
would promptly finish construction on the real property, and that he was on
board with the plan to sell the real property and split equity therefrom.”
Compl. ¶121. The complaint alleges “Plaintiffs and Defendant Nassir thus all
own a percentage of Defendant Mountainfield P01, LLC, for which they seek
dissolution and unwinding.” Compl. ¶122. The complaint asserts plaintiffs seek
dissolution of Alfa. Compl. ¶¶123-124.
 
Defendants argue the Redemption Agreement states the only members of
Mountainfield at its inception were Nassir and Toxboe, who relinquished his
interest, leaving Nassir as sole owner. Defendants argue plaintiffs have no
interest in Mountainfield or Alfa and have no standing to seek dissolution. 
 
This argument rests on the consideration of the contract submitted for
judicial notice. In light of the ruling on RJN Exh. 2, to the extent that
arguments in the demurrer rely on outside evidence, these challenges are
overruled. Code Civ. Proc. §430.10(e). Defendants’ arguments rest on a factual
finding as to contract interpretation, outside the four corners of the
complaint; this the court cannot do on demurrer. OVERRULED. 
 
Judicial Foreclosure
A demurrer for uncertainty means the pleading is ambiguous or
unintelligible. Code Civ. Proc., §430.10(f). “[D]emurrers for uncertainty are
disfavored, and are granted only if the pleading is so incomprehensible that a
defendant cannot reasonably respond.” A.J.
Fistes Corp. v. GDL Best Contractors, Inc. (2019)
38 Cal.App.5th 677, 695.
 
Defendant argues the cause of action is uncertain because the complaint
is unclear as to whether it seeks nonjudicial or judicial foreclosure, as both
are referenced. And if plaintiffs intended to state nonjudicial foreclosure,
defendants assert a demurrer should be sustained because no such cause of
action exists.
 
The judicial foreclosure claim is based on allegations that plaintiffs
invested with Nassir and recorded liens against the property in the form of
Deeds of Trust to secure their notes. Compl. ¶147. However, Nassir
anticipatorily repudiated his agreement to sell the property and pay investors
their equity shares. Compl. ¶149. Plaintiffs issued Notices of Default to the
Nassir for the sums due under the notes secured by the Deeds of Trust, but he failed
to pay. Compl. ¶150. As a result, plaintiffs seek a “judicial order of
foreclosure on the real property, and a sale of the same pursuant to Cal. Code
of Civ. Pro. 725a, et seq.” Compl. ¶151.
 
The complaint’s mention of “nonjudicial foreclosure” appears to be in
error; the briefing and other allegations indicate the claim is for judicial
foreclosure. OVERRULED. 
 
Partition of Real Property
“A partition action may be commenced and maintained by” an owner of
real property that “is owned by several persons concurrently or in successive
estates.” Code Civ. Proc., § 872.210(a). The elements are: (a) description of
the property; (b) all interests plaintiff has or claims in the property; (c)
all interests of record or actually known to plaintiff that persons other than
plaintiff have or claim; (d) the estate as to which partition is sought and a
prayer for partition; and (e) where plaintiff seeks sale of the property, an
allegation of the facts justifying such relief. Code Civ. Proc., § 872.230.
 
Defendants argue plaintiffs fail to state a claim because they do not
have any ownership in the property; Mountainfield holds title as demonstrated
by the grant deed, RJN, Exh. 1. The court cannot consider defendants’ other
argument which relies on evidence not judicially noticed.
 
In opposition, plaintiffs agree Mountainfield holds title to the
property, but argue plaintiff investors have an interest in Mountainfield.
Compl. ¶151. Plaintiff’s allegations, if true, would establish all elements of
partition. Again, the court cannot make factual findings on demurrer. OVERRULED.