


[1]
The agreement limited discovery as follows:
 
“To prepare for the arbitration hearing, both NCR and the
employee have the right to take
the sworn deposition statements of two individuals and, in addition, any expert witnesses expected to testify
at the hearing. All documents to be used as exhibits and a list of all
potential witnesses will be exchanged at least two weeks in advance of the
hearing. No
other ‘discovery’ (i.e., depositions or demands for
documents/information ) will be permitted unless the arbitrator
finds a compelling need to allow it. In
determining whether a compelling need exists, the arbitrator will balance the
interests of fairness and expediency; the arbitrator will only override the
goal of achieving a prompt and inexpensive resolution to the dispute if a fair hearing is impossible without
additional discovery.” (Fitz at p. 709, Italics added.)
 


[2]The
Court takes judicial notice of the FRCP. The Court examined FRCP, 33, 34, and
30 that are referenced in the MAA. The citation in the MAA to the FRCP is only on
how the discovery requests are to be formatted. To be sure, the FRCP do not have
the same significant limits on the quantity of discovery as in the MAA.


[3]Shifting
discovery costs to the employee is substantively unconscionable. (Murrey v. Superior Ct. (2023) 87 Cal. App.
5th 1223, 1248 (Murrey).) 


[4]
This discovery was even less than in Murrey
where the Court found the default limit of three
depositions,  20 interrogatories,  15 requests for documents and 15 requests for
admissions to be insufficient.  (Murrey at pp. 1248-1249.)


[5]As to mutuality, the Court
rejects Plaintiff’s challenge. The MAA provides that “both Transformco and you
are waiving the right to a trial before a judge or jury in federal or state
court in favor of arbitration.” (Ibid.) Plaintiff’s argument that
Defendant could unilaterally terminate the MAA is not well taken. The clause
specifically states: “Transformco may change or terminate this agreement after
giving you 60 days’ written or electronic notice, but such change or
termination shall not apply to a pending claim nor to any claim that accrued or
was known to you prior to the amendment, except as may be required by
applicable law.” (Quinn Decl., Exhibit B, Clause 7 (emphasis added).) As
phrased, then, this clause preserves Defendant’s right to terminate the MAA in
the future but not for
already-existing claims. As to collateral estopell, there was no factual or finding
by the Court. Nor did Plaintiff take to different factual or legal position. Rather,
there was an agreement to enter into arbitration in a separate cause of action,
in a separate proceeding in a different court. 
 
 

