  Case Number:  23STCV10653    Hearing Date:   February 20, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   February
20, 2024                                           
 
CASE NAME:           Arcelia H. Villalobos, et al. v. Blue
Cross of California dba Anthem Blue 
Cross
 
CASE NO.:                23STCV10653

 
DEMURRER
WITH MOTION TO STRIKE

 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendant
Blue Cross of California dba Anthem Blue Cross
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Arcelia H. Villabos,
individually and as executory of the Estate of Salvador A. Villalobos
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
Demurrer
1.      First
Cause of Action for failure to state facts sufficient under CCP § 430.10(e).
2.      Second
Cause of Action for failure to state facts sufficient under CCP § 430.10(e) and
uncertainty under CCP § 430.10(f).
3.      Third
Cause of Action for failure to state facts sufficient under CCP § 430.10(e).
Motion to Strike
1.      
FAC, Paragraph 29, line 6-7: “As a result,
AHV is also entitled to punitive damages.”
2.      
FAC, Prayer for Relief, Page 8, Section 3,
line 16: “For punitive damages on the third claim for relief;”
3.      
FAC, Prayer for Relief, Page 8, Section 5,
line 19: “For attorneys fees and costs of suit.”
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      The
court SUSTAINS the demurrer as to the first cause of action without leave to
amend;
2.      The
court OVERRULES the demurrer as to the second and third causes of action;
3.      The
motion to strike is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part. 
a.      
The court STRIKES: FAC, Paragraph 29, line
6-7: “As a result, AHV is also entitled to punitive damages.” And FAC, Prayer
for Relief, Page 8, Section 3, line 16: “For punitive damages on the third
claim for relief;”
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On May 8, 2023, Plaintiffs Arcelia H. Villalobos,
individually and as Executor of the Estate of Salvador A. Villalobos, (Plaintiff)
filed a Complaint against Defendant Blue Cross of California dba Anthem Blue
Cross (Defendant). The Complaint has three causes of action for: (1)
Declaratory Judgment; (2) Breach of Contract; and (3) Breach of the Covenant of
Good Faith and Fair Dealing.
 
According to the Complaint, Plaintiff and her husband,
decedent, were insured through Medicare and through a Medicare supplemental
plan provided by Defendant via decedent’s employer. Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant refused to reimburse approximately $50,000 in medical bills that
Plaintiff paid for out of pocket. These services occurred at a Mexican hospital
to decedent due to a brain bleed while on vacation in Mexico. Plaintiff alleges
she also paid $36,000 to the Mexican treating physician and Defendant did not
reimburse those costs either. Plaintiff alleges decedent’s son-in-law submitted
claims for reimbursement to Defendant, of which Defendant only reimbursed
ambulance fees, and a medical billing company located in Florida apparently
submitted bills to Defendant for the same services Plaintiff paid for to the
Mexican providers. Plaintiff alleges Defendant did not pay Plaintiff but paid
this medical billing company. The medical billing company in turn sent a new
bill to Plaintiff at four times the amounts set forth in the Mexican hospital’s
original billing statement, noted an insurance payment of $47,762.24, and
demanded an additional $100,626.95.[1]
 Plaintiff contends she paid the hospital
bill in full and owes nothing further. 
 
On August 7, 2023, Defendant filed a demurrer with motion to
strike portions of the Complaint, which the court SUSTAINED with leave to amend
on October 25, 2023.
 
On November 22, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint (FAC) with the same three causes of action.
 
On December 28, 2023, the parties stipulated to extend time
for Defendant to respond to the FAC.
 
On January 24, 2024, Defendant filed the instant demurrer
with motion to strike portions of the FAC. On February 5, 2024, Plaintiff timely
filed oppositions. On February 9, 2024, Defendant timely filed replies.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Demurrer
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states
a cause of action.¿(Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context.¿In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent
on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the
evidence or other extrinsic matters. …. The only issue involved in a demurrer
hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous
matters, states a cause of action.”¿(Hahn¿147
Cal.App.4th at 747.) 
 
Motion to Strike 
 
The court may,
upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems
proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., (CCP) § 436(a).) The court may also strike all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this
state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Id., § 436(b).) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the
face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id.¿§¿437.)¿“When the defect which justifies striking a complaint
is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to amend.” (Vaccaro v. Kaiman¿(1998) 63 Cal.App.4th
761, 768.)¿ 
 
Irrelevant matter includes: allegations not essential to the claim or defense,
allegations “neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient
claim or defense,” or a demand for judgment “requesting relief not supported by
the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.” (CCP § 431.10(b).)  
 
Meet and Confer 
 
Prior to filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required
to satisfy their meet and confer obligations pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc. §430.41, and demonstrate that they so satisfied their meet and confer
obligation by submitting a declaration pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc.
§430.41(a)(2) & (3). The meet and confer requirement also applies to motions to
strike. (CCP § 435.5.) Here, the parties met and conferred on January 18, 2024
but were unable to resolve the issues. (Vedro Decl. ¶ 3.)
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Demurrer
 
Standing
 
Defendant contends that Plaintiff lacks standing because she
failed to comply with CCP § 377.32.[2]
Plaintiff argues that she not only complied with CCP § 377.32 but is the
default successor-in-interest for her deceased husband as his surviving spouse
pursuant to Probate Code § 6400, et seq.[3]
Plaintiff additionally argues that she has standing as a third-party
beneficiary.
 
CCP § 377.32 provides:
(a)   The
person who seeks to commence an action or proceeding or to continue a pending
action or proceeding as the decedent’s successor in interest under this
article, shall execute and file an affidavit or declaration under penalty of
perjury under the laws of this state stating all of the following:
1.      The
decedent’s name.
2.      The
date and place of the decedent’s death.
3.      “No
proceeding is now pending in California for administration of the decedent’s
estate.”
4.      If
the decedent’s estate was administered, a copy of the final order showing the
distribution of the decedent’s cause of action to the successor in interest.
5.      Either
of the following, as appropriate, with facts in support thereof:
a.       “The
affiant or declarant is the decedent’s successor in interest (as defined in
Section 377.11 of the California Code of Civil Procedure) and succeeds to the
decedent’s interest in the action or proceeding.”
b.      “The
affiant or declarant is authorized to act on behalf of the decedent’s successor
in interest (as defined in Section 377.11 of the California Code of Civil
Procedure) with respect to the decedent’s interest in the action or
proceeding.”
6.      “No
other person has a superior right to commence the action or proceeding or to be
substituted for the decedent in the pending action or proceeding.”
7.      “The
affiant or declarant affirms or declares under penalty of perjury under the
laws of the State of California that the foregoing is true and correct.”
This section also requires a certified copy of the
decedent’s death certificate. (Id. at
subd. (c).) 
 
CCP § 377.11 defines “decedent’s successor in interest” as
“the beneficiary of the decedent’s estate or other successor in interest who
succeeds to a cause of action or to a particular item of the property that is
the subject of a cause of action.” 
 
Here, Plaintiff has standing as SAV’s successor-in-interest.
First, Plaintiff satisfied the requirements of CCP § 377.32 by stating: (1)
decedent’s name; (2) the date and place of his death; (3) “No proceeding is now
pending in California for administration of the decedent’s estate.”; (4) states
she is the successor in interest in this action; (6) “No other person has a
superior right to commence the action or proceeding or to be substituted for
Salvador [the decedent] in this pending action.”; and (7) declares under
penalty of perjury. (Villalobos Decl. in its entirety.) Item No. 4 articulated
in the statute applies if the estate was administered. (CCP § 377.32(a)(4).) The
court interprets its absence from Plaintiff’s declaration as indicating that
the estate was not administered. The court is unaware of any authority, and
Defendant has provided none, indicating that Plaintiff need do more as SAV’s
widow to articulate standing as his successor-in-interest.
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff has standing to sue.
 
Second Cause of
Action – Breach of Contract
 
Defendant contends that Plaintiff failed to allege specific
obligations arising from the Policy or obligations that Defendant allegedly
breached and that Plaintiff’s attaching a screenshot indicating a policy
existed is insufficient. Plaintiff argues that she attached the pertinent
clause, namely, for Foreign Travel Emergency and that she alleged that under
the Policy, if SAV required medical care that Anthem would pay for such care. 
 
“To establish a cause of action for breach of contract, the
plaintiff must plead and prove (1) the existence of the contract, (2) the
plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the defendant’s
breach, and (4) resulting damages to the plaintiff. [Citation.]” (Maxwell v. Dolezal (2014) 231
Cal.App.4th 93, 97-98.) “A written contract may be pleaded either by its terms
– set out verbatim in the complaint or a copy of the contract attached to the
complaint and incorporated therein by reference – or by its legal effect.
[Citation.] In order to plead a contract by its legal effect, plaintiff must
‘allege the substance of its relevant terms.’” (Heritage Pacific Financial, LLC v. Monroy (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th
972, 993.) 
 
After reviewing the FAC, Plaintiff sufficiently alleges
breach of contract. First, unlike in the Complaint, here, Plaintiff plead the
existence of the contract because she identified the specific provision at
issue: the Foreign Travel Emergency provision. (FAC ¶ 7, Exhibit A.) That
clause states: “You pay: First $250 each calendar year and 20% of remaining
charges. You pay all costs over lifetime benefit of $50,000.00.”[4]
(Ibid.) Second, Plaintiff alleges
that she, via her husband, fully performed by paying all premiums due while SAV
lived. (FAC ¶ 20.) Third, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant breached the Policy
when they failed to pay Plaintiff for medical costs she incurred in Mexico for
SAV’s medical treatment. (FAC ¶ 21.) Fourth, Plaintiff alleges damages as a
result of the breach. (FAC ¶ 22.) 
 
Accordingly, the court OVERRULES Defendant’s demurrer to
the second cause of action with leave to amend.
 
Third Cause of
Action  - Breach of the Implied Covenant
of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
 
Defendant contends that this claim fails because Plaintiff’s
breach of contract claim fails. Defendant also contends that Plaintiff’s third
cause of action is duplicative of the second cause of action because she did
not allege intentional refusal to discharge contractual responsibilities beyond
the alleged failure to comply with contractual obligations.[5]
Plaintiff argues that in the insurance contract, the unreasonable denial of
policy benefits constitutes a breach of the covenant of good faith and fair
dealing.
 
Every contract contains an implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing that neither party will do anything to interfere with the
other party’s right to receive the benefits of the agreement. (Howard v. American Nat’l Fire Ins. Co.
(2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 498, 528.)
 
The elements of a claim for breach of implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing are: (1) a contractual relationship; (2) plaintiff
fulfilled their contractual obligations; (3) any conditions precedent to
defendant’s performance occurred; (4) defendant unfairly interfered with
plaintiff’s right to receive the benefits of the contract; and (5) plaintiff
was harmed by defendant’s conduct. (Waller
v. Truck Ins. Exchange, Inc. (1995) 11 Cal.4th 1, 36.) 
 
The elements of a claim for breach of implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing in the insurance context are: (1) insurer obligated
under policy to first or third party; (2) implied duty; (3) unreasonable breach
of that duty; and (4) causation of at least economic damages. (Wilson v. 21st Century Ins. Co. (2007)
42 Cal.4th 713, 723; Major v. Western
Home Ins. Co. (2009) 169 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1209-1210 [first party claims]; Waller, supra, at p. 36-37.) 
 
Tort damages are available for breach of the implied
covenant of good faith in insurance contracts. (Wexler v. California Fair Plan Ass’n (2021) 63 Cal.App.5th 55,
62-63.) Privity of contract is typically required to bring this claim. (Ibid.) 
 
Upon reviewing the FAC, Plaintiff has sufficiently plead a
cause of action for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing. First, she plead the existence of a contract. (FAC ¶ 1, 7.) Second,
Plaintiff, via her husband, paid the premiums during SAV’s lifetime. (FAC ¶ 20.)
Third, Plaintiff alleges that all conditions required for Defendant’s
performance have occurred.[6]
(FAC ¶ 25.) Fourth, Defendant unfairly interfered with Plaintiff’s right to
receive benefits because it paid PHI for the medical services instead of
reimbursing Plaintiff. (FAC ¶¶ 10, 13.) Fifth, Plaintiff claims damages as a
result. (FAC ¶ 29.) 
 
Plaintiff also sufficiently pleaded breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing in the insurance context. As above, she
plead the existence of the Policy. (FAC ¶¶ 1, 7.) Second, she plead an implied
duty, namely, that Defendant would pay for SAV’s medical care while he was
living. (FAC ¶¶ 19, 24.) Third, Plaintiff plead unreasonable breach of that
duty because Defendant paid PHI instead of reimbursing Plaintiff for the
medical care. (FAC ¶¶ 10, 13, 25, 26.) Fourth, Plaintiff plead causation of at
least economic damages because she incurred $86,413.47 in medical bills that
Defendant has not reimbursed. (FAC ¶¶ 25, 26, 29.) Plaintiff also plead
standing because she is pursuing claims as the successor-in-interest to her
deceased husband who was the insured. (FAC p. 1:21-22; Villalobos Decl. ¶ 4.) 
 
Accordingly, the court OVERRULES Defendant’s demurrer to
the third cause of action.
 
First Cause of
Action – Declaratory Relief
 
Defendant contends that this claim fails because it is
dependent on the second and third causes of action which also fail. Plaintiff
argues that this claim is valid because her breach of contract claim is valid.
“Any person interested . . . under a contract . . . may, in
cases of actual controversy relating to the legal rights and duties of the
respective parties, bring an original action . . . for a declaration of [their]
rights and duties . . . including a determination of any question of
construction or validity arising under the instrument or contract.” (CCP §
1060.) A plaintiff’s declaratory relief complaint must specifically allege that
an actual, present controversy exists, and must state the facts of the respective
claims concerning the disputed subject matter. (City of Cotati v. Cashman (2002) 29 Cal.4th 69, 79; Connerly v. Schwarzenegger (2007) 146
Cal.App.4th 739, 746 (Connerly).) A
sufficient complaint: (1) sets forth facts showing the existence of an actual
controversy relating to the parties’ legal rights and duties, and (2) requests
the court to adjudge these rights and duties. (Ludgate Ins. Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2000) 82 Cal.App.4th
592, 606; Qualified Patients Ass’n v.
City of Anaheim (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 734, 751; see also Travers v. Louden (1967) 254.Cal.App.2d
926, 931-32 (Travers) [commenting
that declaratory relief may be appropriate for parties with a continuing
relationship].) A declaratory relief claim should not be used to determine
issues that are already engaged by other causes of action. (Hood v. Superior Court (1995) 33
Cal.App.4th 319, 324.) Declaratory relief is not appropriate to address past
wrongs. (SJJC Aviation Services, LLC v.
City of San Jose (2017) 12 Cal.App.5th 1043, 1062.)
 
Upon
reviewing the FAC, Plaintiff has not sufficiently plead a cause of action for
declaratory relief. Notably, Plaintiff does not allege a present controversy,
but actions occurring in the past, because Defendant already allegedly breached
the Policy. (FAC ¶¶ 10, 13, 21, 22, 25, 26.) Plaintiff did not
allege a continuing relationship because her husband died, is no longer
incurring medical expenses, and the controversy wholly concerns those medical
expenses incurred in Mexico. (FAC ¶¶ 1, 5, 6, 8, 10, 13.) The court does not
see how Plaintiff can reasonably amend the FAC to rectify this problem because
the relief requested hinges on a specific contractual clause in a specific
moment of time that has already passed and is covered by Plaintiff’s second and
third claims stemming from breach of contract.[7]
Plaintiff did not articular how she could so amend in her opposition.
 
Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS Defendant’s demurrer to
the first cause of action without leave to amend.
 
Motion to Strike
 
Defendant seeks to strike portions of the Prayer for Relief
in the FAC that pertain to punitive damages and attorneys fees because there
are insufficient facts supporting punitive damages and no contractual or
statutory basis for the attorneys fees. Plaintiff argues that she sufficiently
plead oppression, fraud, or malice and that attorneys’ fees are recoverable in
insurance bad faith claims. Defendant replies that failure to pay a party does
not warrant punitive damages, that the FAC alleges PHI engaged in such
malicious and fraudulent conduct (not Defendant), and the FAC failed to allege
entitlement to attorneys’ fees outside of the Prayer.
 
i.       
Punitive
Damages
To obtain punitive damages, a plaintiff must plead sufficient
facts in support of punitive damages.¿ (See¿Hilliard
v. A.H. Robins Co.¿(1983) 148 Cal.App.3d 374, 391-92.)¿ In
addition,¿punitive damages are allowed only where “it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice.”¿ (Civ. Code, § 3294(a).)¿ Courts have viewed despicable conduct as
conduct “so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it
would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people. (Scott v. Phoenix Schools, Inc., (2009)
175 Cal.App.4th 702, 715.) Further, Civil Code § 3294(c) provides the
definition of malice, oppression, and fraud. Malice is “conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Ibid.) Oppression is “despicable conduct that subjects a person to
cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.” (Ibid.) Fraud is “an intentional misrepresentation,
deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the
intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of
property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”¿(Ibid.) 
 
After
reviewing the FAC, Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged oppression, fraud, or
malice to warrant punitive damages against Defendant. First, Plaintiff alleges
that Defendant “unfortunately” paid PHI instead of reimbursing Plaintiff and
Defendant has not responded to two requests for reimbursement. (FAC ¶¶ 10, 13.)
Indeed, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant acted in bad faith by failing to
reimburse Plaintiff. (FAC ¶ 25.) Second, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant “knew
its position in denying and refusing to pay AHV’s claim was unreasonable” but
did not actually allege a definitive refusal by Anthem – only a failure to
respond to demands for reimbursement. (Compare FAC ¶ 27 with FAC ¶¶ 10, 13, and
25.) As such, the
court does not see how this rises to “willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others,” “cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard
of that person’s rights” or fraud.[8]
 
Accordingly,
the court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to strike the portions of the FAC
pertaining to punitive damages.
 
j.       
Attorneys’
Fees
“A party may not recover attorney fees unless expressly
authorized by statute or contract. [Citations.] In the absence of a statute
authorizing the recovery of attorney fees, the parties may agree on whether and
how to allocate attorney fees.” (Hom v.
Petrou (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th 459, 464, review denied (Oct. 20, 2021); see
also, Civ. Code § 1717.)¿ A plaintiff may recover reasonable attorney fees
incurred to recover benefits due under the policy, but this does not include
fees in proving the bad faith claim itself. (Brandt v. Sup. Ct. (Standard Ins. Co.) (1985) 37 Cal.3d 813, 817.) 
 
Here,
Plaintiff has not alleged a contractual basis to recover attorney fees. Plaintiff
may, however, seek attorneys’ fees as damages against an insurer in a bad faith
claim. (CCP § 1021; Brandt, supra, at
p. 818.) Defendant is correct that Plaintiff has no factual allegations
supporting her claim for attorneys’ fees, but Plaintiff has asserted a claim
for attorneys’ fees and costs in her
Prayer.[9] (FAC Prayer ¶ 5.) Indeed,
Defendant seeks to strike the entire sentence grouping attorneys’ fees with the
request for costs. Under Brandt, the
amount of Plaintiff’s attorneys’ fees as damages to recoup the alleged unpaid
benefit is a question of fact which, as the parties are well aware, is not
appropriate for decision at the demurrer stage. (Brandt, supra, at p. 819.) 
 
Accordingly,
the court DENIES Defendant’s motion to strike the Prayer requesting attorneys’
fees.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.The court SUSTAINS the demurrer
as to the first cause of action without leave to amend;
2.The court OVERRULES the demurrer
as to the second and third causes of action;
3.The motion to strike is GRANTED
in part and DENIED in part. 
b.      
The court STRIKES: FAC, Paragraph 29, line
6-7: “As a result, AHV is also entitled to punitive damages.” And FAC, Prayer
for Relief, Page 8, Section 3, line 16: “For punitive damages on the third
claim for relief;”
Moving party is to ANSWER only within 10 days.
Responding party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:             February
20, 2024                   __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


