 Case Number:  23STCV23723    Hearing Date:   February 20, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   February
20, 2024                                           
 
CASE NAME:           Kevin
Hickey v. Transform Sears Home Services, LLC
 
CASE NO.:                23STCV23723

 
MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION AND TO STAY PROCEEDINGS
 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendant
Transform Sears Home Services, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Kevin Hickey
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      An
Order compelling arbitration;
2.      An
Order staying the proceedings pending arbitration.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Motion
to Compel Arbitration is DENIED;
2.      Request
to stay is DENIED.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On September 29, 2023, Plaintiff Kevin Hickey (Plaintiff)
filed a Complaint against Defendant Transform Sears Home Services LLC with five
causes of action for: (1) Discrimination in Violation of the FEHA; (2) Failure
to Accommodate in Violation of the FEHA; (3) Failure to Engage in the
Interactive Process in Violation of the FEHA; (4) Retaliation in Violation of
the FEHA; and (5) Failure to Prevent in Violation of the FEHA.
 
According to the Complaint, Plaintiff worked for Defendant
from December 2020 until August 2021 as a service technician. He alleges
Defendant wrongfully terminated him. Plaintiff alleges that due to a
disability, he requested a leave of absence from April 26, 2021 to June 21,
2021 and subsequently requested an extension until August 2021 to undergo
surgery. 
 
On November 17, 2023, Defendant filed an Answer.
 
On January 23, 2024, Defendant filed the instant Motion to
Compel Arbitration. On February 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On
February 9, 2024, Defendant filed a reply.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Request for
Judicial Notice:
 
The court grants Defendant’s request for judicial notice as
to Exhibits 1 through 3. (Evid. Code § 452(d), (h); See Kalnoki v. First American Trustee Servicing Solutions, LLC (2017) 8
Cal.App.5th 23,37.) 
 
Compel
Arbitration: 
 
Under California
law, the trial court has authority to compel arbitration pursuant to CCP
§1281.2 where a written agreement for such arbitration exists and one of the
parties refuses to arbitrate.¿ Specifically, the statute provides that, “[o]n
petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a
written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses
to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement
arbitrate the controversy exists.”¿ The statute further sets forth four grounds
upon which the trial court may refuse to compel arbitration: (a) the right to
compel arbitration was waived, (b) recission of the agreement, (c) there is a
pending action or special proceeding with a third party, arising out of the
same transaction; and (d) petitioner is a state or federally chartered
depository institution.¿ 
 
“[T]he
petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by the preponderance of the evidence . . . .”¿¿(Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc.¿(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th
1276, 1284¿(Guiliano).)¿“In
determining whether an arbitration agreement applies to a specific dispute, the
court may examine only the agreement itself and the complaint filed by the
party refusing arbitration [citation]. The court should attempt to give effect
to the parties' intentions, in light of the usual and ordinary meaning of the
contractual language and the¿circumstances under which the agreement was
made.”¿¿(Weeks v. Crow¿(1980) 113
Cal.App.3d 350, 353.)¿ “To determine whether a contractual arbitration clause
requires arbitration of a particular controversy, the controversy is first
identified and the issue is whether that controversy is within the scope of the
contractual arbitration clause.”¿¿(Titolo¿v.
Cano¿(2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 310, 316.)¿ “Doubts as to whether an
arbitration clause applies to a particular dispute are to be resolved in favor
of sending the parties to arbitration. The court should order them to arbitrate
unless it is clear that the arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to cover
the dispute.”¿¿(California Correctional
Peace Officers¿Ass'n¿v. State¿(2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 198, 205.)
 
“[A] party opposing the petition bears the burden of proving
by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its defense.
[Citation.] In these summary proceedings, the trial court sits as a trier of
fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary
evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court's discretion, to
reach a final determination.”¿¿(Giuliano,
supra, at p. 1284.)¿¿ 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Existence of
Arbitration Agreement 
 
In determining
the enforceability of an arbitration agreement, the court considers “two
‘gateway issues’ of arbitrability: (1) whether there was an agreement to
arbitrate between the parties, and (2) whether the agreement covered the
dispute at issue.”¿ (Omar v. Ralphs
Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961 (Omar).)¿¿¿¿¿ 
 
1.     
Agreement Between Parties: 
 
The moving party
can meet its initial burden of proving the existence of an arbitration
agreement by attaching a copy of the Agreement to this motion bearing the
signature of the opposing party. (See Bannister
v. Marinidence Opco, LLC (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 541, 541-543 [“The party
seeking arbitration can meet its initial burden by attaching to the petition a
copy of the arbitration agreement purporting to bear the¿respondent's
signature.”].) Alternatively, the moving party can meet its initial burden by
setting forth the agreement’s provisions in the motion. (See Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1330; see also Condee v.
Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219.)  
 
Here, Defendant met their initial burden because they
attached a copy of the Mutual Arbitration Agreement (MAA) with Plaintiff’s electronic
signature. (Declaration of Sandra Quinn (Quinn Decl.) ¶¶ 10, 11, Exhibits A, B.)  Both California and Federal law provides that electronic
signatures on arbitration agreements are valid. The California Uniform
Electronic Transactions Act (“UETA”) indicates that an electronic signature has
the same legal effect as handwritten signature.
 
“If the moving party meets its initial prima facie burden
and the opposing party disputes the agreement, then in the second step, the
opposing party bears the burden of producing evidence to challenge the
authenticity of the agreement.” (Gamboa
v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal. App. 5th 158,165 (Gamboa).) The evidence must be
sufficient to create a factual dispute to shift the burden back to the
arbitration proponent who retains the ultimate burden of proving, by a
preponderance of the evidence, the authenticity of the signature. (Iyere v. Wise Auto Group (2023) 87
Cal.App.5th 747, 755 (Iyere).) 
 
Here, Plaintiff argues that Defendant did not provide
evidence that Plaintiff actually received the MAA or acknowledged receipt of it
with a unique, verifiable signature. 
 
Once Plaintiff
challenges the validity of the signature, “defendants were then required to
establish by a preponderance of the evidence that the signature was authentic.”
(Espejo v. Southern California Permanente
Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1060 (Espejo).) Espejo dealt
with an electronic signature. In Espejo,
the supplemental declaration of the systems consultant provided the necessary
information to establish the authenticity of the document, specifically how the
unique username and password were only accessible to that specific individual.
(Id. at 1062). In Gamboa, in contrast, the trial court
determined the employer failed to sustain its burden of proof because it
presented no admissible evidence rebutting the employee’s claim denying
remembering signing any arbitration document. (Gamboa, supra, 72 Cal.App.5th at 169.) The Gamboa panel found no error in the trial court’s order.   
 
Here, unlike Gamboa, Defendant provided admissible evidence meeting its burden. For
example, Defendant presented declarations from Sandra Quinn, Senior Director,
PeopleOps, who is personally familiar and has responsibility over Payroll, HR
Systems, Payroll finance and HR Shared Services, and access to personnel
records of current and former employees. (Quinn Decl. ¶¶ 2, 4.) Just like in Espejo,
where the defendant provided a declaration that discussed the “steps an
applicant would have to take to place his or her name on the signature line of
the employment agreement,” (Espejo,
supra, 246 Cal.App.4th at 1062), Quinn provided sufficient detail attesting
to the authenticity of the password protected electronic signature. Namely, Plaintiff
needed to use his email address and a unique password to access Brass Ring to
complete the employment application, and, while on Brass Ring authorized
electronic signatures by using the last four digits of his SSN and clicking “I
Accept.” (Quinn Decl. ¶¶ 7, 8, Exhibit A.) Plaintiff did not challenge
completing this process. (Hickey Decl. ¶ 4.) Additionally, the employment offer
letter reiterated the existence of the MAA and indicated it would be sent to
Plaintiff to review and sign if he had not already done so in the job
application process. (Quinn Decl., Exhibit C.) In sum, Defendant provided
credible evidence that Plaintiff was the only person able to access his login
credentials to review and acknowledge receipt of the MAA and related documents.
(Quinn Decl. ¶¶ 10, 11, 15, Exhibits A, B, D.) 
  
Thus, the court finds that Moving Defendants have met their
burden by a preponderance of the evidence establishing the existence of a valid
agreement between the parties.  
 
Therefore, the Defendant has established that the
Arbitration Agreement exists.   
 
2.      The Agreement Covers the Dispute at Issue: 
 
Applicability of
MAA to Subject Dispute 
 
Defendant contends the MAA covers the subject dispute
because Plaintiff filed an employment action that is not otherwise excluded by
the MAA. Plaintiff did not directly oppose this argument.
 
Here, the MAA applies to the instant dispute. First, the MAA
states it covers “a legal claim under any federal, state or local statute,
ordinance, regulation or common law doctrine regarding or relating to your
employment, the terms and conditions of your employment, or any termination of
employment . . . .” unless specifically carved out. (Quinn Decl., Exhibit B.)
Plaintiff’s claim against Defendant concerns his employment with them and is
not otherwise carved out.  
 
Therefore, the agreement applies to the subject dispute. 
 
Defenses to
Arbitration 
 
Plaintiff argues that the court should not compel
arbitration because the MAA is unconscionable.
 
Once it is
determined that a valid arbitration agreement exists, the burden shifts to the
opposing party to “prove by a preponderance of the evidence any defense to the
petition.” (Lacayo v. Catalina Restaurant
Group Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 244, 257, review denied (Nov. 13, 2019)).¿ 
 
Unconscionability 
 
In Armendariz, the California Supreme Court stated that when determining whether
an arbitration agreement was unconscionable, there is both a procedural and a
substantive element. (Armendariz v.
Foundation Health Psychcare Service, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 82, 114 (Armendariz)).¿¿ 
 
a.       Procedural
Unconscionability 
 
Defendant contends there is no procedural unconscionability
because Plaintiff was presented with a conspicuous title of the agreement so
there are no elements of surprise or oppression. Plaintiff argues there is
substantial procedural unconscionability because the MAA is an adhesion
contract. 
 
Courts determine whether an agreement is procedurally
unconscionable by looking at surprise and oppression. Oppression is an
“inequality of bargaining power, when one party has no real power to negotiate
or a meaningful choice. Surprise occurs when the allegedly unconscionable provision
is hidden.” (Carmona v. Lincoln
Millennium Car Wash, Inc.¿(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 74, 84 (Carmona).) Examples of contracts that
are procedurally unconscionable are contracts of adhesion, which is a
“standardized contract, which, imposed and drafted by the party of superior
bargaining strength, relegates to the subscribing party only the opportunity to
adhere to the contract or reject it.” (Armendariz, supra, at p. 113). “The
circumstances relevant to establishing oppression include, but are not limited
to (1) the amount of time the party is given to consider the proposed contract;
(2) the amount and type of pressure exerted on the party to sign the proposed
contract; (3) the length of the proposed contract and the length and complexity
of the challenged provision; (4) the education and experience of the party; and
(5) whether the party’s review of the proposed contract was aided by an
attorney. (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019)
8 Cal.5th 111, 126-27 (OTO).) 
 
Here, while this may have been a contract of adhesion, as
most employment contracts are, this alone does not mean the whole agreement is
procedurally unconscionable. “When
arbitration is a condition of employment, there is inherently economic pressure
on the employee to accept arbitration. This alone is a fairly low level of
procedural unconscionability.” (Cisneros
Alvarez v. Altamed Health Services
Corporation (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 572, 591). Plaintiff’s only argument is
that he needed to accept the MAA or he would be denied the job. (Opp.
12:21-25.) There are no other arguments supporting procedural
unconscionability.
 
Thus, the
agreement is minimally procedurally
unconscionable.¿ 
 
b.      Substantive
Unconscionability 
 
Plaintiff argues the MAA is substantively unconscionable
because it does not provide for adequate discovery, does not provide for all
remedies, and lacks mutuality because Defendant could terminate the MAA but
Plaintiff could not. Defendant argues that the MAA meets the Armendariz factors and the MAA is
mutual. 
 
“Substantive unconscionability pertains to the fairness of
an agreement's actual terms and to assessments of whether they are overly harsh
or one-sided.” (Carmona, supra, at p.
85). There are five minimum substantive requirements to an enforceable
arbitration agreement: (1) neutral arbitrators, (2) more than minimal
discovery, (3) written award sufficient for judicial review, (4) all types of
relief otherwise available in court, and (5) no unreasonable costs or fees as a
condition of access. (Armendariz, supra,
at p.102.) When there is little procedural unconscionability, a party opposing
arbitration must show substantial substantive unconscionability. (Id. at 114.) 
 
Plaintiff relies on Fitz
v. NCR Corp. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 702, 716 (Fitz) and Baxter v. Genworth
North America Corp. (2017) 16 Cal.App.5th 713, 728 (Baxter) to support their position. In Fitz the court found
that while the rules of the American Arbitration Association was incorporated, the
employer deliberately modified “the rules of discovery to its advantage” by limiting the arbitrator’s discretion to expand discovery
only upon a showing of a compelling need.  (Fitz,
supra, at p. 719.)[1]
Ultimately, the Fitz court found that the arbitration agreement’s limitation on
discovery and on the arbitrator’s discretion rendered the agreement unconscionable.
(Fitz, supra, at pp. 716-719.) In Baxter, the agreement limited document
production to the employee’s personnel and medical files, allowed up to 10
interrogatories including subparts, five document requests, and two depositions
for no more than nine hours. (Baxter,
supra, at p. 727.) Moreover, the arbitrator could
order additional discovery on a showing of “good and sufficient cause.” (Ibid.) The Baxter Court concluded the that the limits on discovery and the
showing need to expand discovery made the arbitration agreement unconscionable.
(Ibid.)
 
Here, the MAA similarly placed significant limitations on  discovery as follows: one interrogatory, 25 request
for product of documents and a total of 16 hours of deposition. (Quinn Decl., Exhibit B.)[2] Moreover, “absent a showing of compelling need, the parties shall engage only in limited discovery.”
(Quinn Decl., Exhibit B.)In addition, the arbitrator could
order the employee to advance the costs of additional discovery.[3] (Quinn Decl., Exhibit B.)
 
            In many respects the default discovery is even less than what was
authorized in both Fitz and Baxter [4]and
the standard for additional discovery is more demanding than the criticized
standard in Baxter, and equally as
onerous as the Fitz “compelling” need burden. The Court also compared the original JAMS discovery
rules to the modified rules created by Defendant in the MAA. There simply is no
comparison.  The JAMS rules allow for
liberal and probing discovery and afford tremendous discretion to the
arbitrator to expand the scope of discovery. The Court finds that while the MAA
incorporated the JAMS rules, just like the employer in Fitz, Defendant here deliberately modified “the rules of discovery
to its advantage.” Moreover, similar to Fitz,
the Court finds that the “compelling” burden on the arbitrator to expand discovery
is so high, and the default amount of discovery is so low, that an employee is
likely to be unable to make the requisite showing to compel additional necessary
discovery. (Fitz at pp. 717-718.) Thus,
 the court
agrees with Defendants that the MAA is substantively unconscionable because of
the unreasonable limitations on discovery.
 
Lastly, severing the offending provisions
of the MAA, for the same policy reasons as articulated in Fitz, “would not be
consistent with the reasons for severing objectionable terms as identified by
the California Supreme Court.” (Fitz
at p. 727.) 
 
Accordingly, the MAA is  so substantively unconscionable that it is unenforceable.[5]
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.Motion to Compel Arbitration is DENIED;
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              February 20, 2024                   __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
 
 
 


