  Case Number:  21STCV06352    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 
 



PATRICK KRUG,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
THE BOARD
  OF TRUSTEES OF THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY, et al., 
 
                        Defendants.
 


 


      CASE NO.: 21STCV06362
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER PMQ DEPOSITION
 
Date:  January 18, 2024
Time:
  8:30 a.m.
Dept.
  56



 
            MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff
 
            RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant The Board of Trustees of the California State University
(“Moving Defendant”)
 
            The
Court has considered the moving, opposition and reply papers.  
 
BACKGROUND
This action arises out of an employment
relationship.  The currently operative
second amended complaint (the “SAC”) alleges: (1) discrimination; (2)
harassment; (3) retaliation; (4) failure to prevent, investigate and remedy harassment and
discrimination; (5) whistleblower retaliation; and (6) reprisal/retaliation.[1]
 
On December
11, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel further deposition testimony of
Defendant’s Person Most Qualified (“PMQ”) (the “Motion”).  The Motion concerns the sufficiency of the PMQ’s
testimony regarding an investigation process into Plaintiff’s complaints as
well as the appeal process after the investigation itself was concluded.
 
DISCUSSION
            Under
California Code of Civil Procedure
(“CCP”) section 2025.450, if, after service of a deposition notice, a
party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a
party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party, without
having served a valid objection, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed
with it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party
giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony and the production for inspection of any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.  (CCP § 2025.450, subd. (a).)  The motion must both: (1) set forth specific
facts showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice; and (2) include a meet and confer declaration pursuant to
CCP section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and
produce the documents, electronically stored information, or things described
in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has
contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.  (CCP § 2025.450, subd. (b)(1)-(2); see
Leko v. Cornerstone Building Inspection Service (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th
1109, 1124 (the statute also applies when the deponent simply fails to appear).)
 
On August 28, 2023, Defendant produced Marc Mootchnik
(“Mootchnik”), its Assistant Vice Chancellor and Chief Counsel for Human
Resources, as its PMQ for topics 20, 27, and 34-35.  (Declaration of Beth Gunn (“Gunn Decl.”) ¶
7.)  The Separate Statement filed in
conjunction with the Motion details the portions of Mootchnik’s testimony that
Plaintiff contends were inadequate.
 
Adequacy
of PMQ’s Preparation
If the deponent named is not a natural person, the
deposition notice shall describe with reasonable particularity the matters on
which examination is requested. In that event, the deponent shall designate and
produce at the deposition those of its officers, directors, managing agents,
employees, or agents who are most qualified to testify on its behalf as to
those matters to the extent of any information known or reasonably available to
the deponent.  (CCP § 2025.230.)  If the subject matter of the questioning is
clearly stated, the burden is on the entity, not the examiner, to produce the
right witnesses.  (LAOSD Asbestos
Cases (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 939, 948.)
 
The PMQ deposition notice broadly requests information
regarding Defendant’s decisions and instructions regarding its handling of
Plaintiff’s complaint and its “response” to Plaintiff’s subsequent appeal.  (See Gunn Decl. ¶ 5.)  The Court finds that Mootchnik appeared
reasonably prepared to respond to questioning on the scope of the identified
inquiries, and his inability to answer certain specific questions does not
evince a lack of preparation given the breadth of the noticed deposition
topics.    
 
Attorney-Client
Privilege/Work Product Protection
In the context of employment
claims, if a defendant employer hopes to prevail by showing that it
investigated an employee's complaint and took action appropriate to the
findings of the investigation, then it will have put the adequacy of the
investigation directly at issue, and cannot stand on the attorney-client
privilege or work product doctrine to preclude a thorough examination of its
adequacy.  (Wellpoint Health Networks, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 110, 128 (“Wellpoint”).)  Where a defendant has produced its
files and disclosed the substance of its internal investigation conducted by
nonlawyer employees, and only seeks to protect specified discrete
communications which those employees had with their attorneys, disclosure of
such privileged communications is simply not essential for a thorough
examination of the adequacy of the investigation or a fair adjudication of the
action.  (Kaiser Foundation Hospitals
v. Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227 (“Kaiser”).)
 
Plaintiff and Defendant disagree about the nature of
the work performed by the investigator Defendant employed to investigate
Plaintiff’s internal complaints. 
Defendant contends that the narrower waiver rule articulated in Kaiser
applies because its investigator was not “acting” in the capacity of an
attorney when conducting the investigation. 
By its own terms, however, Kaiser applies to investigations
performed by nonattorneys, and the Kaiser holding does not draw a
distinction between attorneys acting as outside investigators.  It is undisputed that Defendant has raised
the sufficiency of its investigation (which includes its internal appeal
process) as an issue; therefore, under Wellpoint, it has waived
attorney-client privilege/work-product protection objections to inquiries on
the subject.  The Court therefore GRANTS
the Motion insofar as it relates to topics regarding the sufficiency of
Mootchnik’s responses that invoked attorney/client privilege or work product
protection. 
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice
of this ruling.
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
 
    Dated this 18th
day of January 2024
 



 


 




 


Hon. Holly J. Fujie
Judge of the Superior Court
 



 


