This is a dispute relating to renovations to a duplex.  On February 20, 2020, Whitestone Builders, Inc. (“Whitestone”) filed a Complaint against Valerie Taylor and Derek Taylor for (1) breach of contract, (2) account stated, (3) common count, (4) unjust enrichment, and (5) foreclosure on mechanic’s lien.On July 6, 2022, Valerie Taylor and Derek Taylor filed a Second Amended Cross-Complaint (“SACC”) against Cross-Defendants Whitestone, Pier Pjerin Prenga, and Suretec Indemnity Company for (1) disgorgement; (2) rescission and restitution—violation of Bus. & Prof. Code § 7159; (3) rescission and restitution—contract void for illegality; (4) declaratory relief; (5) breach of written contract; (6) negligence; (7) fraud; and (8) contractor’s license bond.On August 18, 2023, Whitestone filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”).The Taylors now seek to compel further responses to their special interrogatories (“SI”) from Whitestone and Prenga.  For Prenga, SIs 9 and 10 are at issue, and, for Whitestone, SIs 130 and 131 are at issue.   SIs 9 and 130 state, “IDENTIFY ALL DOCUMENTS from which your current FINANCIAL CONDITION [ ] can be determined.”  SIs 10 and 131 seek for Whitestone and Prenga to identify individuals or entities that would possess the documents identified for the prior interrogatory. The objections lack merit, and the (supplemental) responses are evasive and/or incomplete.  The SIs are relevant to alter ego allegations and merely seek the identification of documents and those that possess them.  They do not seek underlying information in those documents.  Notably, Civ. Code § 3295(c) states, “the defendant may be required to identify documents in the defendant’s possession which are relevant and admissible for that purpose and the witnesses employed by or related to the defendant who would be most competent to testify to those facts.”The Motions are granted.  Further responses are to be provided within 30 days.  The Court declines to award sanctions.Moving parties to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 