 Case Number:  23STCV19261    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  73 7/11/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
AKLYAN, et al. v. GALPIN JAGUAR LINCOLN-MERCURY, INC., et al. (23STCV19261)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiffs:  Iman Alamdari (Shegerian
& Associates, Inc.)
Counsel for
Defendant Ford: Sarah Nakamoto (Snell & Wilmer LLP)
 
(1)   PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION FOR RELIEF FROM EFFECT
OF LATE SERVED RESPONSES (filed on 05/15/2024)
(2)   DEFENDANT FORD’S MOTION TO CONTINUE
TRIAL, FINAL STATUS CONFERENCE, AND RELATED DEADLINES (filed on 05/21/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiffs’
Motion for Relief from Effect of Late Served Response is DENIED. 
 
Defendant
Ford’s Motion to Continue Trial, Final Status Conference, and Related Deadlines
is GRANTED.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On August 11, 2023, Plaintiffs Garen Aklyan, individually
and as successor-in-interest to Arthur Aklyan, deceased; and Yelena Malkhasyan
(collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed this action. On January 24, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed a First Amended Complaint against Defendants Galpin Jaguar
Lincoln-Mercury, Inc. d/b/a Galpin Premier Collection; Ford Motor Company; the
State of California; and California Department of Transportation.
 
The FAC alleges the following. On August 28, 2022, Arthur Aklyan was involved in a fatal collision
while driving northbound on the I-5 highway, south of Sheldon Street, Sun
Valley, California 91352, in a 2018 Lincoln MKZ, California License Plate No.
8EQC405, Vehicle Identification No. 3LN6L5E90JR615845 (the “SUBJECT MKZ”). The
Subject MKZ contained inherent defects in design and manufacturing. Arthur
Aklyan faced an emergency braking situation, which resulted in a collision,
while using the Subject MKZ and each of its component parts as intended or in a
reasonably foreseeable manner. However, had the Subject MKZ’s ruptured and/or
structurally weak front brake jounce hoses and loose steering wheel retaining
bolt been repaired, the collision would have been prevented or its severity
lessened. Plaintiffs assert the following causes of action:
1.    
Strict Liability/Product Defect
2.    
Negligence/Product Defect
3.    
Dangerous Condition of Public Property
 
A.    
Motion for Relief from Effect of Late Served Responses
 
On
May 15, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the Motion for Relief from Effect of Late Served
Responses, arguing:
·      
Plaintiffs move for an order relieving Plaintiff of the effects of
its failure to timely respond to Defendant Ford Motor Company’s (“Ford”) first
set of discovery: (1) requests for production; (2) special interrogatories; and
(3) form interrogatories, general, served on September 18, 2023.
·      
The Court should grant Plaintiffs’ Motion for Relief because: (1)
Plaintiffs have already provided Ford with the substantive responses to the
relevant and responsive information they seek, (2) Plaintiffs have engaged in
discovery in good faith to date, and (3) Defendant does not have a legitimate
basis for seeking to compel further responses.
·      
Plaintiffs’ counsel states he only recently took on this matter,
after discovery was served, and was unaware of the outstanding discovery due to
lack of notice and his heavy case load. Thus, Ford’s assertion that Plaintiffs
had waived their objections was counsel’s first notice that any outstanding
discovery existed.
·      
Plaintiffs have already provided complete and substantial
responses to the discovery requests to which Ford now seeks to compel further
responses.
o   Ford’s Motion
to Compel is merely punitive, seeking sanctions and a Court order forcing
Plaintiffs to serve the same substantive answers again, only without
objections, and forcing Plaintiff to produce all privileged communications.
 
In
opposition, Defendant Ford contends:
·      
Plaintiffs did not timely respond to Ford’s first sets of written
discovery. Thus, per Code of Civil Procedure sections 2030.290(a) and
2031.300(a), Plaintiffs waived all objections to first sets of written
discovery, including those based on privilege and work product.
·      
Despite being granted a 60-day extension to respond to Ford’s
first sets of written discovery, and having three attorneys on the file,
Plaintiffs still failed to respond timely.
·      
Plaintiffs’ failure to timely respond was not due to mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.
o  
Here, Plaintiffs knew that their responses to the Ford’s first
sets of discovery were due on December 19, 2023 (after a 60-day extension was
provided by Ford) because Ford’s counsel notified Plaintiffs of the missed
deadline and that they waived all objections by serving late responses.
Nevertheless, Plaintiffs did nothing for months to then serve only objections –
which had been waived – to Ford’s first sets of discovery on January 26, 2024.
o  
Plaintiffs’ claim that “Plaintiffs new handling attorney was
unaware of the outstanding discovery” is not sufficient. See Motion at 5:20-21.
Plaintiffs already had three attorneys on the file that were served with Ford’s
discovery, and counsel was aware that Plaintiffs responses were due on December
19, 2023, because they had requested and received a 60-day extension of time
from Ford.
·      
Plaintiffs are also not entitled to relief because their late
responses were not substantially compliant with the Civil Discovery Act.
o  
Plaintiffs responses are deficient, and Defendant Ford has filed
motions to compel further responses. 
 
Plaintiffs
filed a reply, maintaining that the Motion should be granted because Plaintiffs’ responses are
substantially compliant, Plaintiffs’ failure to serve timely responses was the
product of mistake, inadvertence and excusable neglect, and Ford has not
suffered prejudice. 
 
B.     Defendant
Ford’s Motion to Continue Trial, Final Status
Conference, and Related Deadlines

 
On May 21,
2024, Defendant Ford filed the Motion to Continue Trial, Final Status
Conference, and Related Deadlines, arguing:
·      
The current hearing date for Ford’s discovery motions – which is
over two months after the current dispositive motion deadline and only a month
before the current trial date – does not provide adequate time for Ford to have
its discovery motions resolved in advance of the deadline to file and serve a
motion for summary judgment.
·      
Ford’s requested continuance of the trial date to July 25, 2025
will provide a new deadline of April 9, 2025 to file and serve a motion for
summary judgment by email. The requested continuance will permit Ford’s
discovery motions to be heard in advance of its deadline to file a dispositive
motion.
·      
This continuance is not sought for an improper purpose, none of
the parties or witnesses will be prejudiced by a continuance; indeed, Ford
would be unduly prejudiced if its requested continuance is not granted.
·       No prior
trial continuance has been granted by this Court.
 
Plaintiffs did
not file an opposition. 
 
II.
ANALYSIS
 
A.     Plaintiffs’ Motion
for Relief from Effect of Late Served Responses
 
a.    
Legal Standard
 
A party that
fails to timely respond to interrogatories, requests for production, or
requests for admission waives all objections to these discovery requests. (Code
Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290 [interrogatories], subd. (a), 2031.300, subd. (a)
[production], 2033.280, subd. (a) [admission requests].) 
 
The court, on
motion, may relieve that party from its waiver on the court’s determination
that: (1) the party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial
compliance with the Discovery Act, and (2) the party’s failure to serve a
timely response was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subds. (a)(1)-(2) [interrogatories], 2031.300,
subds. (a)(1)-(2) [production], 2033.280, subds. (a)(1)-(2) [admission
requests].) 
 
b.    
Discussion 
 
Plaintiffs move for an order relieving Plaintiffs of the effects
of its failure to timely respond to Defendant Ford’s first set of discovery:
(1) requests for production; (2) special interrogatories; and (3) form
interrogatories, general.
 
On September 18, 2023, Defendant Ford propounded its first set of
discovery upon Plaintiffs. (Alamdari Decl., ¶ 3, Exhs. 2-7.) On October 5,
2023, Ford granted Plaintiffs a 60-day extension of time to respond to its
first sets of written discovery, making Plaintiffs’ responses due on December
19, 2023. (Nakamoto Decl., ¶ 4.) On or about December 21, 2023, Ford sent
Plaintiffs a letter stating that it had not received Plaintiffs’ responses,
that Plaintiffs waived its objections, and that Plaintiff was to provide
verified responses, without objections, on or before January 5, 2024. (Alamdari
Decl., ¶ 4.) The parties met and conferred, and Defendant Ford provided an
extension until January 26, 2024 for Plaintiffs to provide responses. (Alamdari
Decl., ¶ 5.) On January 26, 2024, Plaintiffs served objection-only responses to
all Defendants to preserve its objections. Plaintiffs provided notice that it
would work to provide substantive responses by February 12, 2024. (Alamdari
Decl., ¶ 6.) On February 23, 2024, Plaintiffs served further responses to
Ford’s written discovery, with objections. (Alamdari Decl., ¶ 6.) On April 22,
2024, Plaintiffs served their document production to Ford’s first sets of
requests for production. On May 1, 2024, Ford filed its motions to compel
Plaintiffs provide further responses to its first sets of form interrogatories,
special interrogatories, and requests for production, without objections, and
associated requests for sanctions.
 
c.     
Mistake,
Inadvertence, or Excusable Neglect
 
Plaintiffs
argue the Court should
relieve Plaintiffs of the consequences of the delay in serving their Discovery
Requests because the delay was occasioned by a mistake.
 
In Plaintiffs’
counsel’s declaration, Mr. Alamdari states he was hired and began taking over
this case in October 2023. (Alamdari, Decl., ¶ 4.) Plaintiffs’ assert Mr.
Alamdari was assigned the matter after receipt of these discovery requests and
was unaware of their pending status until receipt of Ford’s meet and confer
letter. (Alamdari Decl., ¶ 4; Exh. 8.)
 
Plaintiffs
argue that Plaintiffs’ failure to respond was the result of a mistake and
inadvertence because Mr. Alamdari was unaware of the outstanding discovery and
the busy case load of the firm distracted Plaintiffs’ counsel’s attention
elsewhere allowing the outstanding discovery to go un-noticed. (Alamdari Decl.,
¶ 4.) Plaintiffs argue that calendaring mistakes provide sufficient basis for
relief under section 473. (See Nisson v. City of Los Angeles (1967) 249
Cal.App.2d 976, 980-981; Haviland v. Southern Calif. Edison Co. (1916)
172 Cal. 601, 605 [“It will hardly be claimed that the inadvertent entry of a
wrong date in the book or journal in which defendant's attorneys kept a record
of the proceedings to be taken by them could not fairly have been held by the
trial court to furnish sufficient ground for relief under the remedial
provisions of section 473”]; Hagenkamp v. Equitable Life Assurance Society,
29 Cal.App. 713, 156 P. 520 [attorney mistakenly entered trial date on calendar
as August 8 instead of August 7, missed trial.])
 
However,
the Court does not find Plaintiffs’ mistake as a sufficient basis for relief.
Plaintiffs cite to authority finding excusable mistake where counsel
inadvertently entered the wrong date on their calendar. Here, the Court does
not find Plaintiffs’ assertion that the busy case load of their firm distracted
Plaintiffs’ counsel’s attention as constituting excusable mistake, inadvertence
or mistake. As Defendant contends, Plaintiffs had three other attorneys on file
that were served with Defendant’s discovery and counsel had previously
requested an extension. (Oppos., p. 9.) In addition, Defendant contends that
Mr. Alamdari first emailed defense counsel in this case on November 3, 2023
regarding Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint. (Oppos., pp. 9-10.) Thus, Mr.
Alamdari had over a month before the discovery responses were due to get up to
speed on the case and request additional time to respond. 
 
Thus,
Plaintiffs have not met their burden of showing that their failure to timely respond
to the discovery requests was a result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable
neglect.   
 
d.    
Substantial
Compliance with Code
 
Because the Court has determined
that Plaintiffs’ have failed to show their late responses were due to mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect, the Court need not reach a determination on
whether Plaintiffs’ responses are substantially compliant with the Civil
Discovery Act. 
 
In sum, the Court DENIES Plaintiffs’
Motion for Relief from Effect of Late Served Responses.
 
B.     Defendant
Ford’s Motion to Continue Trial and Related Deadlines
 
a.     Legal
Standard
 
A party
seeking a continuance of the date set for trial must make the request for a
continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte application as soon as
reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered.¿
(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(b).)¿ The request for continuance may be
granted on an affirmative showing of good cause.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1332.)¿
 
The Court may
look to the following factors in determining whether a trial continuance is
warranted: (1) proximity of the trial date; (2) whether there was any previous
continuance of trial due to any party; (3) the length of the continuance
requested; (4) the availability of alternative means to address the problem
that gave rise to the motion; (5) the prejudice that parties or witnesses will
suffer as a result of the continuance; and (6) whether trial counsel is engaged
in another trial. (See generally, Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subd.
(d)(1)-(11).) Additionally, factors for the Court to consider include: a
party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other
material evidence despite diligent efforts; the proximity of the trial date;
whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance; and any other fact or
circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c), (d).)
 
b.     Discussion
 
Defendant Ford moves the Court to continue the trial and related
deadlines.
 
Defendant asserts the current hearing date for Ford’s discovery
motions – which is over two months after the current dispositive motion
deadline and only a month before the current trial date – does not provide
adequate time for Ford to have its discovery motions resolved in advance of the
deadline to file and serve a motion for summary judgment.
 
The Court finds Defendant’s request for more time to have its discovery
motions resolved before the current dispositive motion deadline is reasonable.
Furthermore, no prior requests for continuance have been made, and the present
motion was filed and to be heard well in advance of the trial set for February
2024. This case filed in August 2023 is relatively new.  No opposition has
been filed alleging prejudice. Thus, Defendant has shown good cause.
 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s Motion to Continue Trial, Final Status Conference, and Related
Deadlines.
 
III. DISPOSITION
 

Plaintiffs’
Motion for Relief from Effect of Late Served Response is DENIED. 
 
Defendant
Ford’s Motion to Continue Trial, Final Status Conference, and Related Deadlines
is GRANTED.
 
The new Trial Date is set for July 21, 2025, at
8:30 a.m. The Final Status Conference is continued to July 7, 2025, at 10:00
a.m. All case-related deadlines are to follow the new trial date.