 Case Number:  24STCV09612    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  73 07/11/24
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
ROOSEVELT WHITE v. VANMAR CAPITAL LLC
(24STCV11319)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party: Roosevelt White (Pro Per)
Counsel for
Defendants/moving party:  Edward
McCutchan (Sunderland McCutchan, LLP)
 
demurrer to complaint (filed on 5/10/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the Complaint’s third cause
of action with 20 days leave to amend.
 
The Court overrules Defendant’s demurrer to the rest of the Complaint. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On
April 17, 2024, Plaintiff Roosevelt White (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendant Vanmar Capital LLC. 
 
The
Complaint alleges the following causes of action: 
 
C/A
1: Violation of Cal. Civ. Code § 2966
C/A
2: Violation of Cal. Civ. Code § 2924i
C/A
3: Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
C/A
4: Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage
C/A
5: Violation of Business & Professional Code § 17200
 
The
Complaint alleges the following. At
all times mentioned herein, Plaintiff is the owner and occupant of the property
located at 1226 W 66th Steet, Los Angeles, CA 90044 (the “Property”). Plaintiff
resided with his mother on the Property for over 20 years. On May 22, 2020,
Plaintiff’s mother passed away. On or about April 22, 2021, Plaintiff recorded
the Grant Deed to the Property. On or about March 23, 2022, Plaintiff took out
a loan in the amount of $435,000.00 with Defendant. Plaintiff concurrently
executed a Deed of Trust as security for the note. Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant’s predatory " loan to own" practices and interference with
contractual relations has resulted in Plaintiff potentially losing the
Property.
 
On May 10, 2024, Defendant filed the instant demurrer to the
Complaint.
·       Defendant
demurs to Plaintiff’s entire complaint arguing Plaintiff is not the real party
in interest to pursue Los Angeles County Superior Court Case No. 24STCV09612 in
light of his current and active Chapter 13 Bankruptcy Court action in the
United States Bankruptcy Court of California’s Central Division in bankruptcy
court Case No. 223-bk-17860-VZ.
o  
The Court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of
action alleged in the pleading since Plaintiff is in a Chapter 13 Bankruptcy. 
o  
Defendant also argues in this Los Angeles County action, there is
a misjoinder of the United States Bankruptcy Trustee given Plaintiff’s current
Chapter 13 bankruptcy where the assigned United States Trustee the real party
in interest and has the authority and duty to pursue the causes of action as an
asset of the bankruptcy estate in this state court action as a matter of law.
·       Defendant
also demurs to Plaintiff’s third cause of action for Breach of the Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing. Defendant argues it cannot be
ascertained whether the alleged contract supporting the “Breach of the Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing Allegation” is written, oral or implied
by conduct as mandated by CCP section 430.10 (g). Plaintiff did not attach any
contract to his Complaint.
 
On June 27, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to Defendant’s
demurrer arguing: 
·       Defendant's
Demurrer is premised entirely on the basis that due to Plaintiffs prior Chapter
13 bankruptcy petition, this Court has no jurisdiction for this matter.
·       However,
Defendant’s argument is now moot as the bankruptcy has been dismissed. 
o  
Plaintiff does not dispute that at the time the Complaint in the
instant matter was filed, a petition for bankruptcy under Chapter 13 had been
initiated in the Central District of California. However, no plan was ever
confirmed, and Plaintiff's bankruptcy case was dismissed by the Trustee on May
21, 2024. (See Exhibits 1 and 2 to the accompanying Request for Judicial
Notice.)
o  
Defendant's claim that there is a defect or misjoinder of parties
is likewise moot as the United States Bankruptcy Trustee, is no longer a real
party in interest and has no authority to pursue the 18 present causes of
action.
·       Plaintiff’s
third cause of action for Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing is sufficiently pled
o  
Plaintiff's implied covenant claim stems from allegations that
Defendant frustrated and prevented Plaintiff's ability to complete renovations
of his own property by demanding that he work on Defendant's two other
properties first. Defendant further interfered with Plaintiffs ability to list
and sell the subject Property by unreasonably refusing to agree to Plaintiff's
prospective buyer in September 2023. There was no express contractual term that
Defendant would not frustrate or prevent Plaintiff from renovating his Property
or to unreasonably withhold consent to a sale, but doing so denied Plaintiff
the benefit of his contract with Defendant, namely, to borrow money to renovate
his Property in order to be able to sell it.
 
On July 7, 2024, Defendant filed a reply:
·      
Defendant’s reply does not address Plaintiff’s assertion that
the bankruptcy case was dismissed. Defendant incorporates its objections to Plaintiff’s June 27, 2024 filed
declaration and request for judicial notice in that the documents he has
submitted are inadmissible hearsay and are not certified as being true and
correct copies of the originals in the United States Bankruptcy Court.
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.     Legal
Standard for Demurrer
 
A demurrer
tests the sufficiency of whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context—any defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the
pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v.
Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the
court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual
allegations. (Id.) The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is
whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn,
supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.)
 
B.     Request for
Judicial Notice
 
Defendant
requests judicial notice of the April 24, 2024 certified copy of plaintiff,
Roosevelt White’s Chapter 13 plan in the United States Bankruptcy Court of
California, Central Division, Case No. 223-bk-17860-VZ.
 
Plaintiff requests
judicial notice of: (1) The United States Bankruptcy Court for the Central
District of California's Order of Dismissal filed in the matter entitled In re:
White, Roosevelt, Case No. 2:23-bk-17860-VZ; and (2) Chapter 13 Standing
Trustee's Final Report and Accounting, with financials redacted.
 
The court may
take judicial notice of “official acts of the legislative, executive, and
judicial departments of the United States and of any state of the United
States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record
of the United States or of any state of the United States,” and “[f]acts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.” (Evid. Code § 452, subds. (c), (d), and (h).)
 
The Court grants Defendant and Plaintiff’s
requests for judicial notice. The Court notes, however, taking judicial notice
of a document is not the same as accepting the truth of its contents or
accepting a particular interpretation of its meaning. (Herrera v. Deutsche
Bank National Trust Co. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1366, 1375.) When
judicial notice is taken of a document, the truthfulness and proper
interpretation of the document are disputable. (Ibid.) Judicial notice of a
Court record is limited to the existence of the documents and is not the same
as taking notice of the truth of any matters or facts stated therein. (Ibid.)   
 
C.     Objections to
Plaintiff’s Declaration
 
Defendant
objects to paragraphs 3 and 4 of Plaintiff’s Declaration arguing that the
documents submitted for judicial notice are not certified. 
 
The Court overrules
Defendant’s objections. As discussed above, the Court takes judicial notice of Plaintiff’s
submitted documents. The Court takes judicial notice of the existence of the
documents, but does not take notice of the truth of any matters or facts stated
therein.
 
D.     Meet and
Confer Requirement 
 
“Before filing a demurrer pursuant to
this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a).)  
 
Here, counsel for Defendant submitted a declaration stating he
sent correspondence to Plaintiff’s counsel outlining the deficiencies of the
Complaint on April 22, 2024 and April 24, 2024. (McCutchan Decl., ¶¶ 2-4.) The Court finds the moving party satisfied its
obligations to meet and confer and the Court proceeds on the merits. 
 
E.     Demurrer to
the Complaint
 
Defendant demurs to Plaintiff’s entire Complaint on the
grounds that Plaintiff has a current Chapter 13 Bankruptcy Court action in the United States Bankruptcy
Court of California’s Central Division in bankruptcy court Case No.
223-bk-17860-VZ. 
 
Defendant argues that due to Plaintiff’s Chapter 13 bankruptcy
action, this Court does not have jurisdiction over this state court action and the
United States trustee is the real party in interest and has the authority and
duty to pursue the causes of action as an asset of the bankruptcy estate in
this action. In support, Defendant cites to two federal cases, which are
non-binding authority on this Court. (See Reed v. City of Arlington
(2011) 5th Cir. 650 F. 3d 571 and Copelan v. Techtronics Industries Co., Ltd.
(2015) 95 F. Supp. 3d 1230.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff asserts that Defendant’s argument is moot
as Plaintiff's bankruptcy case was dismissed by the Trustee on May 21, 2024. (Plaintiff’s
RJN, Exhs. 1 and 2.) In support, Plaintiff attached the United States
Bankruptcy Court’s Order of Dismissal filed in the bankruptcy case.
(Plaintiff’s RJN, Ex. 1.) Defendant does not address this contention in its
reply.
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court does not find that the
demurrer to the entire Complaint should be sustained on these grounds. 
 
Accordingly,
Defendant’s demurrer to the entire Complaint is overruled on this basis.
 
F.      Demurrer to
the Third Cause of Action: Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and
Fair Dealing
 
Defendant
demurs to the Complaint’s third cause of action for Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing,
arguing that Plaintiff has failed to state a cause of
action. 
 
A cause of
action for breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing
requires  
the following
elements:  (1) plaintiff and defendant entered into a contract; (2)
plaintiff did all, or substantially all of the significant things that the
contract required him to do or plaintiff was excused from having do to those
things; (3) all conditions required for defendant’s performance had occurred or
were excused; (4) defendant unfairly interfered with plaintiff’s right to
receive the benefits of the contract; and (5) plaintiff was harmed by
defendant’s conduct.  (CACI 325.)
 
The covenant of good faith and fair dealing is implied by law
in every contract, and it acts “as a supplement to the express contractual
covenants, to prevent a contracting party from engaging in conduct which (while
not technically transgressing the express covenants) frustrates the other
party’s rights to the benefits of the contract.” (Racine & Laramie, Ltd.
v. Department of Parks & Recreation (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 1026,
1031-1032.) 
 
The Complaint
alleges that on March 23,
2022, Plaintiff took out a loan in the amount of $435,000.00 with Defendant.
(Compl., ¶ 3.) Plaintiff concurrently executed a Deed of Trust as security for
the note. (Ibid.) Plaintiff understood that under the agreement on the
loan, he would owe the full amount to Defendant after one year. (Compl., ¶ 34) Plaintiff
intended to renovate the home and resell it in order to pay off the loan. (Ibid.)
 
In Plaintiff’s opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendant prevented
Plaintiff from renovating the Property which prevented Plaintiff from reselling
the Property. (Compl., ¶¶ 6-7.) Plaintiff also asserts that Defendant further
interfered with Plaintiff’s ability to list and sell the subject Property by
unreasonably refusing to agree to Plaintiff's prospective buyer in September
2023. (Complaint, ¶ 11.)
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff has failed to allege
sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action for breach of the implied covenant
of good faith and fair dealing. Plaintiff has not pled the terms of the
contract or attached the contract to the Complaint. Plaintiff does not specify
whether the contract is written, oral or implied by conduct. 
 
Accordingly, the Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the
third cause of action with leave to amend. 
 
III. DISPOSITION

 
The Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the
Complaint’s third cause of action with 20 days leave to amend.
 
The Court overrules Defendant’s demurrer to the rest
of the Complaint. 