 Case Number:  22STCV40216    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  73 07/11/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
MARTINEZ v. FARMERS FINANCIAL
SOLUTIONS, LLC, et al. (22STCV40216)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/moving party:  Marcelo Dieguez
(Diefer Law Group, PC)
Counsel for
Defendants/opposing party: Clayton Hix (Hill, Farrer & Burrill LLP)
 
PLAINTIFF’S motion FOR ATTORNEYS’ FEES (filed 05/16/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff’s
motion for attorney’s fees is DENIED. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
  
On December 27, 2022, Plaintiff Citlali
Lopez Mayte Martinez filed this employment action against Defendants Simplified
Labor Staffing Solutions, Inc. (“Simplified Labor”) and William Espinoza
(“Espinoza”).  
 
The Complaint asserts the following
causes of action: 
1.    
Discrimination in Violation of Cal.
Gov. Code §§ 12940 et seq. (FEHA); 
2.    
Harassment in Violation of the FEHA;
3.    
Retaliation in Violation of the FEHA;
4.    
Failure to Prevent Harassment, Discrimination, and
Retaliation in Violation of Government Code § 12940(K);
5.    
Negligent Supervision and Retention;
6.    
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress;
7.    
Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy; and
8.    
Failure to Permit Inspection of Personnel and Payroll
Records.
 
The Complaint
alleges the following. On or about
January 11, 2022, Plaintiff began working for Defendants as a laborer at
Defendants’ warehouse in Lynwood, California. Plaintiff was a full-time,
non-exempt employee, and performed all of Plaintiff’s job duties satisfactorily
before Defendants wrongfully terminated Plaintiff’s employment on or about
April 20, 2022, in retaliation for making protected FEHA complaints about
supervisor Espinoza’s sexual harassment of Plaintiff.
 
On
May 16, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a Motion for Attorney Fees, arguing:
·      
Plaintiff moves for an order awarding her attorney
fees and costs incurred on appeal in the amount $17,094.20 from Defendant and their attorneys, pursuant to the
appellate court decision dated May 15, 2024.
·      
Defendants filed an unsuccessful motion to compel arbitration. the
present sexual harassment case was clearly barred by the Ending Forced
Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act of 2021 (“EFASASH”) and
they filed their motion anyways.
·      
The appellate court denied the appeal and affirmed the trial court
ruling.
·      
The appellate court granted costs on appeal to Plaintiff.
·      
California public policy supports Defendants paying for the delay
they caused by covering Plaintiff’s Attorney Fees and costs. SB 365 was later
passed in January 2024 to stop attorneys like those from Hill Farrer in this
case from strategically bringing frivolous appeals as a delay tactic.
·      
Plaintiff’s counsel’s rates and hours billed are reasonable. 
 
On June 27, 2024, Defendant Simplified Labor filed an opposition,
arguing: 
·      
The trial court does not have jurisdiction to entertain or decide
the motion. No remittitur has issued and the appellate process is still
underway with a petition for review pending before the California Supreme
Court.
·      
Plaintiff is not entitled to costs because costs must first be
awarded in, and claimed after, the remittitur is issued.
·      
Here, Plaintiff contends she is entitled to attorney’s fees as the
“prevailing party,” pursuant to Government Code section 12965(b). However, Plaintiff
cannot avail herself of that statute because the case is still pending and
there has been no adjudication of the merits.
 
Plaintiff did not file a reply.
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.     Legal
Standard 
 
“As a general rule, the prevailing party may recover
certain statutory costs incurred in the litigation up to and including entry of
judgment. [Citations.] These costs may include attorney fees, if authorized by
contract, statute . . . or law. [Citation.] . . . attorney fees require a
separate noticed motion. [Citations.]” (Lucky United Props. Inv., Inc. v.
Lee (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 125, 137.) This motion may be brought: (1) after
judgment or dismissal, for fees incurred “up to and including the rendition of
judgment in the trial court--including attorney’s fees on an appeal before the
rendition of judgment…”; and (2) on an interim basis, upon remittitur of
appeal, of only fees incurred on appeal. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rules
3.1702(b)-(c).)
 
Under
California Rules of Court, rule 8.278(a)(1), the party prevailing in the Court
of Appeal in a civil case (other than a juvenile case) is entitled to costs on
appeal.  The
prevailing party is the respondent if the Court of Appeal affirms the judgment
without modification or dismisses the appeal. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
8.278(a)(2).) 
 
“Unless the
court orders otherwise, an award of costs neither includes attorney’s fees on
appeal nor precludes a party from seeking them under rule 3.1702.” (Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 8.278.) 
 
However,
“[w]here attorney’s fees are authorized by statute they are authorized on
appeal as well as in the trial court.” (People ex rel. Cooper v. Mitchell
Brothers’ Santa Ana Theater (1985) 165 Cal.App.3d 378, 387.) 
 
B.     Whether
Plaintiff Can Seek Attorneys’ Fees
 
Plaintiff moves for an order awarding her attorney fees and costs incurred on
appeal in the amount $17,094.20
from Defendant and their attorneys, pursuant to the appellate court decision
dated May 15, 2024.
 
On April 7, 2023, Defendants filed a motion to compel arbitration
pursuant to an arbitration agreement purportedly signed by Plaintiff. On July
13, 2023, this Court denied Defendants’ motion to compel Plaintiff’s sex
harassment case to arbitration, finding that the case was barred by the Ending
Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act of 2021
(“EFASASH”). Defendant appealed the trial court’s order. On May 15, 2024, the
appellate court denied the appeal and affirmed the trial court ruling. (Avila
Decl., Ex. A.)
 
In opposition, Defendant argues that Plaintiff is not entitled to
attorneys fees and costs because no remittitur has issued and the appellate
process is still underway with a petition for review pending before the
California Supreme Court. Plaintiff did not present an argument in response. 
 
Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rules 3.1702
and 8.2782, the Court
finds that Plaintiff is not entitled to an award of
attorney fees and costs at this time. Rule 3.1702 allows a motion for attorney
fees to be brought upon remittitur of appeal of the fees incurred on appeal. As
stated in Rule 8.2782, the “clerk/executive officer of the Court of Appeal must
enter on the record, and insert in the remittitur, a judgment awarding costs to
the prevailing party.” Plaintiff has not established that remittitur was
issued. Thus, the Court denies Plaintiff’s motion to seek attorney’s
fees at this time. 
 
III. DISPOSITION
 

Plaintiff’s
motion for attorney’s fees is DENIED. 