  Case Number:  20STCV46934    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  73 7/11/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
BARRIOS v. TELACU NW FIVE, INC., et
al. (20STCV46934)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party:  Daniel Balaban
(Balaban & Speilberger, LLP)
Counsel for Defendant/moving
party:  Benjamin Sampson (Bordin Semmer
LLP)
 
MOTION FOR AN ORDER TO COMPEL DEPOSITION
OF RUDY ELIAS (filed by Defendant Waste Management of California,
Inc. on 04/04/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant Waste Management of California’s Motion to Compel
Deposition of Rudy Elias is GRANTED. Rudy
Elias is ordered to appear for deposition within 30 days.
Moving party to give notice.
BACKGROUND
 
On December 8, 2020, Plaintiff Jerson
Barrios (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Telacu NW Five, Inc.;
Telacu 1270, Inc.; Telacu Development Corporation, Inc.; The East Los Angeles
Community Union; Waste Management of California, Inc. (“Waste Management”); and
Waste Management Collection and Recycling, Inc. (collectively, “Defendants”).
 
The Complaint alleges that while in
the course of Plaintiff’s employment with Garibay Landscaping, Inc., Plaintiff
sustained significant injuries during an incident on May 2, 2020. Plaintiff alleges he was standing on the outer ledges
on the top of a dumpster, as he and others usually did, to empty the contents
of the reusable trash bags full of leaves, shrubbery, branches, which was being
handed to him by another member of the Garibay Landscaping crew. Plaintiff
alleges he suddenly lost his balance and fell down to the ground hitting the
back of his head, neck, back and the rest of his body onto the asphalt/concrete
floor, suffering a skull fracture, respiratory failure, spinal injuries and
shoulder abrasion, among other injuries. 
 
On April 4,
2024, Defendant Waste Management filed the instant Motion to Compel Witness Rudy Elias to Comply with the
Deposition Subpoena for Personal Appearance and Production of Documents. 
 
No opposition was filed. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendant
Waste Management moves to compel the deposition of third-party witness Rudy
Elias. 
 
A party may move to compel a non-party’s compliance with a
subpoena that requires the attendance of a witness.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
1987.1.(a)  Unlike a motion to compel a party’s deposition under Code of
Civil Procedure section 2025.450, the movant is not required to show good cause
or include an accompanying meet and confer declaration.
 
On February 12, 2024, Rudy Elias was served with a subpoena for his personal appearance
at deposition which was set for March 21, 2024. Defendant Waste Management asserts that
Mr. Elias’ testimony is highly relevant to this case. Plaintiff identified Mr.
Elias as a post-incident employer, thus Defendant Waste Management argues Mr.
Elias’ testimony is important for liability and damage-related issues. Defendant
Waste Management contends that Mr. Elias never indicated he would not be able
to appear. 
 
The Court
notes that the motion is unopposed. Due to the lack of opposition, an
inference is created that the motion is meritorious. (Sexton v. Superior
Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.)   
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant Waste Management’s
motion. Rudy Elias is ordered to appear for deposition within 30 days. 
 
CONCLUSION 

Defendant Waste Management of
California’s Motion to Compel Deposition of Rudy Elias is GRANTED. Rudy Elias is ordered to appear for deposition
within 30 days.
Moving party to give notice.