 Case Number:  24STCV03284    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  30 Dept.
30 
Calendar
No.
Winter, et. al. v. Parker, Milliken, Clark, et. al.,
Case No. 24STCV03284
Winter, et. al. v. Parker, Milliken, Clark, et.
al., Case No. 23STCP00403
 
Tentative Ruling re: 
Defendants’ Motions to Compel Arbitration
 
Defendants move for an order compelling
Plaintiffs to submit all the claims alleged against Defendants in Plaintiffs’
Complaint to arbitration and stay this action pending resolution of the
arbitration. The motion is denied.
 
“On petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate
the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy
exists, unless it determines that: (a) The right to compel arbitration has been
waived by the petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the
agreement.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2,
subds. (a), (b).)
A proceeding to compel arbitration is
in essence a suit in equity to compel specific performance of a contract. (Freeman v. State Farm Mutual Auto Insurance
Co. (1975) 14 Cal.3d 473, 479.) Such enforcement may be sought by a party
to the arbitration agreement. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1280, subd. (e)(1).) 
            The petition to compel arbitration
functions as a motion and is to be heard in the manner of a motion, i.e., the
facts are to be proven by affidavit or declaration and documentary evidence
with oral testimony taken only in the court’s discretion. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§1290.2; Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin.
Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413–414.) The petition to compel
must set forth the provisions of the written agreement and the arbitration
clause verbatim, or such provisions must be attached and incorporated by
reference. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330; see Condee v. Longwood Mgmt. Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215,
218.)  
            Once petitioners allege that an
arbitration agreement exists, the burden shifts to respondents to prove the
falsity of the purported agreement, and no evidence or authentication is
required to find the arbitration agreement exists. (See Condee, supra, 88
Cal.App.4th at p. 219.) However, if the existence of the agreement is
challenged, “petitioner bears the burden of proving [the arbitration
agreement’s] existence by a preponderance of the evidence.” (Rosenthal, supra, p. 413; see also Espejo v. Southern California Permanente
Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1058–1060.)
 
Existence of the Agreement
A “successor trustee
is bound by a valid arbitration agreement executed by a predecessor.
[Citation].” (Thomas v. Westlake (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 605, 613 fn5.)
“[A] trustee is not
personally liable on a contract properly entered into in the trustee’s
fiduciary capacity . . . unless the trustee fails to reveal the trustee’s
representative capacity or identify the trust in the contract.” (Prob. Code, §
18000, subd. (a).) Thus, liability in contract does not fall on a trust where
the trustee fails to identify the trust in the contract. “A claim based on a
contract entered into by a trustee in the trustee’s representative capacity, on
an obligation arising from ownership or control of trust property, or on a tort
committed in the course of administration of the trust may be asserted against
the trust by proceeding against the trustee in the trustee's representative
capacity, whether or not the trustee is personally liable on the claim.” (Id.,
§ 18004.)
 
Here, Defendants
assert that the Plaintiffs are bound by the fee agreements signed by a former
trustee of the Menlo Family Trust, Lesile Klein, because the Plaintiffs are Klein’s
successors in interest. (Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration, Lines 20–25,
p. 1.)
 
            Lesile
Klein entered separate legal contracts for legal services with Buchalter and Parker
Milliken. (Wachtell Decl. ¶ 3, Ex.1 and Nunan Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. 2.)
 
The Buchalter
Agreement states the following:
“By signing this
Agreement, You agree that, if any dispute arises out of or relating in any way
to this Agreement, our relationship, or the services performed (including but
not limited to disputes regarding attorneys’ fees or costs and claims of
negligence, breach of contract or fiduciary duty, fraud or any claim based upon
a tort or statute), such dispute shall be resolved by submission to binding
arbitration in Los Angeles County, California, before a retired judge or
justice with ADR Services, Inc. pursuant to the ADR Services Arbitration Rules
in effect at the time of any such dispute.” (Wachtell Decl., Ex.1.)
 
Plaintiffs argue that
the trust is not bound by Defendants’ fee agreements with Klein. Plaintiffs state
that the requirements of Probate Code section 18000 were not met because The
Franklin Menlo Trust is not identified in any fee agreement. However, the Buchalter
Agreement does identify the Menlo Trusts stating, “You [Klein] are hiring the
Firm to represent You in your individual capacity and as Trustee in connection
with the Menlo Litigation and as Trustee of the other approximately 79 Menlo
family trust agreements.” (Wachtell Decl., Ex.1.) The Menlo Litigation is
separately defined as involving the Frank Henry Menlo Irrevocable trust. (Ibid.)
 
Here, Lesile Klein
entered an Agreement for Legal Services with Buchalter in his individual
capacity and in his capacity as a trustee. (Wachtell Decl., Ex.1.) Plaintiffs
are suing Buchalter for an alleged breach of fiduciary duty which is covered by
the terms of the Buchalter Agreement. Therefore, the Court finds that an
arbitration agreement exists between the parties and the Plaintiffs would be
bound to it because they are Klein’s successor in interest, if not for the
Parker Milliken Agreement.
 
The Parker Milliken
Agreement dated October 5, 2012, states the following:
            “Any
dispute between us concerning our fees or charges not so submitted to binding arbitration
under the rules of the California State Bar, or which remains unresolved after
non-binding arbitration under such rules, and any other dispute between or
among you and us or any of our attorneys and agents, including but not limited
to claims of malpractice, errors or omissions, breach of this agreement, or any
other claim of any kind regardless of the facts or the legal theories, shall be
finally settled by mandatory binding arbitration in Los Angeles, California,
conducted in accordance with California Code of Civil Procedure §§ 1282 et
seq., including, but not limited to, section 1283.05, with each party to bear
its own costs and attorneys' fees and disbursements.” (Nunan Decl., Ex. 2, ¶ 13.)
 
            Lesile
Klein signed the October 5, 2012, agreement in his individual capacity but not
in his capacity as a trustee. (Ibid.) The agreement states that “Parker,
Milliken will be representing only you as the Client and will not be
representing any person related or unrelated to Client nor any parent,
subsidiary, or other affiliated entity.” (Ibid.) While the agreement
does mention the Menlo trust dispute and that Klein is a trustee, this clause
precludes any representation of Klein in his representative capacity as trustee.
Rather, the agreement purports to represent Klein personally “in connection
with the contested proceedings concerning the Menlo trusts, of which you are
trustee.” (Ibid.) Thus, this agreement is not binding on the trust
through section 18000, subdivision (a).
 
Klein signed an
additional agreement with Parker Milliken on January 13, 2022. (Id., Ex.
3.) This agreement did extend representation to Klein in his representative
capacity “as Trustee in administering the 73 Menlo Trusts that are set forth in
Exhibit 1.” (Ibid.) However, the trust at issue in the present case was
not listed among them. Similarly, the August 1, 2022, agreement between Klein
and Parker Milliken only applied to Klein “as Trustee of the Emily Winter
Trust.” Thus, the 2022 agreements are also not binding on the Franklin Henry
Menlo Trust.
 
The Court finds that
a valid arbitration agreement exists between Plaintiffs and Buchalter, but not
between Plaintiffs and Parker Milliken. Under Code of Civil Procedure section
1281.2, subdivision (c), the court should not order arbitration if “[a] party
to the arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action or
special proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same transaction or
series of related transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting
rulings on a common issue of law or fact.” Such is the case here. Plaintiffs
are a party to an arbitration agreement with Buchalter, but also a party in the
present action against Parker Milliken. The cases against both parties arise
out of the same series of related transactions, namely alleged participation in
Klein’s schemes. (Compl. ¶ 26.) If the Court were to compel arbitration with
respect to Buchalter, there would be a risk of conflicting rulings because both
parties are heavily involved in Plaintiffs’ case. (Id. ¶ 4.) 
 
The Court exercises
its authority under section 1281.2 to refuse to enforce the arbitration
agreement between Plaintiffs and Buchalter. All parties are joined in the
present action.
 
Equitable Estoppel
            Defendants
argue that Plaintiffs should be compelled to arbitrate this case because their
proposed claims are based on the existence of an attorney-client relationship
created and governed by the agreements with arbitration clauses. However,
Plaintiffs need not share a contractual attorney-client relationship with
Defendants to support a claim for professional negligence. (Coscia v.
McKenna & Cuneo (2001) 25 Cal.4th 1194, 1199.) Attorneys may owe a duty
of care to third parties outside the representation. (Roberts v. Ball, Hunt,
Hart, Brown & Baerwitz (1976) 57 Cal.App.3d 104, 110.) Indeed,
Plaintiffs are not claiming that Defendants represented Plaintiffs or the
trust. They claim that Defendants committed malpractice by personally and
knowingly representing Klein as he embezzled funds from the trust. (Compl. ¶
26.) Thus, Defendant’s equitable estoppel defense fails.