 Case Number:  BC709376    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  30 Dept. 30
Calendar No.
Sadeghi vs. Pinscreen
Inc., et. al., Case No. BC709376
 
Tentative Ruling
re:  Defendant’s Motion to Extend
Discovery Cutoff; Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production
of Documents
 
            Dr. Hao Li
(Defendant) moves for leave to extend the time allotted for filing discovery
motions. If successful, Defendant also moves to compel further responses from
Dr. Iman Sadeghi (Plaintiff) regarding Defendant’s demands for production of
documents, set one. Plaintiff only opposes Defendant’s motion to compel on
procedural grounds. The motion to extend the time for discovery is granted. The
hearing on Defendant’s motion to compel further responses is continued so that
Plaintiff may file an opposition.
 
“On motion of any party, the court may
grant leave to complete discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning
discovery heard, closer to the initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after
a new trial date has been set.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subd. (a).) When
ruling on such a motion, the court considers the following: (1) the necessity
and reasons for discovery; (2) the diligence of the party seeking extended
discovery and reasons discovery was not completed earlier; (3) the likelihood
that permitting the extended discovery will prevent the case from going to
trial on the date set or result in prejudice to the other party; and (4) the
length of time that has elapsed between any former and current trial date. (Id.,
§ 2024.050, subd. (b).) Monetary sanctions are warranted against one who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes such a motion, unless substantial justification
existed. (Id., § 2024.050, subd. (c).)
 
Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s
motion for leave to extend the time allotted for discovery should be denied
because Defendant filed the motion 15 days before the hearing date, rather than
16 as required by Code of Civil Procedure section 1005, subdivision (b). Under
Rule of Court 3.1300(d), the Court may refuse to consider a late filed motion. A
clerical error caused Defendant’s late filing, and it was corrected within one
day. (Notice of Errata, September 17, 2024.) The single day delay did not
prejudice Plaintiff. Thus, the Court will consider Defendant’s motion.
 
Defendant contends that the factors
outlined in Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050, subdivision (b), weigh in
favor of extending discovery. Plaintiff disagrees. The Court will consider each
factor in turn.
 
            Necessity
and Reasons for Discovery
            Defendant
argues that the discovery propounded on June 12, 2024, is necessary for trial.
Defendant asserts that Plaintiff has provided insufficient responses to
Defendant’s request for information regarding Plaintiff’s salary while employed
at Google. Defendant argues that a comparison of salaries is critical to Plaintiff’s
fraud claim, and that Plaintiff’s submitted W2 statements are insufficient to
determine his salary during his employment.
 
            Plaintiff
does not argue that the discovery is unnecessary, but rather that Defendant’s
conduct demonstrates that their purported need for the information is
disingenuous. Plaintiff notes that Defendant did not propound any discovery
requests until 4 years and 3 months after the start of the case. Defendant had
previously been dismissed from the case, before being reinstated as a defendant
after a successful appeal by Plaintiff. It is reasonable that Defendant waited
many years to begin conducting discovery because they were not sure it would be
necessary. 
 
            Thus, the
discovery sought appears to be necessary and the first factor weighs in
Defendant’s favor.
 
            Diligence
of Party Seeking Discovery and Reasons for Untimeliness
            Defendant
asserts that Plaintiff is responsible for the present delay because Plaintiff
served many documents weeks after the original discovery cutoff after Defendant
granted Plaintiff multiple extensions for providing responses. Defendant also
seeks an equitable extension of discovery considering the Court’s earlier
extension allowing Plaintiff to file a motion to quash a subpoena 18 days after
the normal cutoff for such a motion. Plaintiff points to Defendant’s own delays
regarding the initial start of discovery and failures to meet and confer
regarding the present dispute. The reasons for Defendant’s present motion are
attributable to a lack of diligence on the part of both parties. Thus, the
second factor does not appear to weigh in either party’s favor.
 
            Interference
with Trial Date or Prejudice to Plaintiff
            Defendant
argues that the current hearing date of October 9, 2024, for Defendant’s motion
to compel further responses will not interfere with the currently set January
27, 2025, trial date. However, given the necessity of first ruling on the
present motion, the hearing will be closer to the trial date than October 9.
Plaintiff argues that such a timeline, including Defendant’s special
interrogatory motion scheduled for January 8, 2025, is untenable. Defendant
indicates that they are willing to have their motions heard earlier to
accommodate the Court. Importantly, Defendant’s motion to compel further
responses could have been heard on October 9 if not for Plaintiff’s procedural
objections. Thus, Plaintiff’s actions are partially to blame for any potential disruption
to the current trial date. 
 
            Plaintiff
argues that reopening discovery is prejudicial because Plaintiff only agreed to
continue trial with the expectation that fact and discovery motions would  conclude on September 27. Defendant filed an
ex parte application to continue trial, citing recent substitution of counsel.
(Wilkinson Decl. ¶ 6, Ex. 1.) The Court granted the unopposed application
subject to the parties’ agreement that discovery motion cutoff would be
extended to September 27 with respect to the present request only. (Id.
¶ 7, Ex. 3.) Since that application, Defendant has not substituted counsel. (Id.
¶ 11.) Absent that continuance, trial would have likely already concluded.
Thus, the Court finds an extension of discovery mildly prejudicial to Plaintiff.
Collectively, this factor does not weigh in favor of either party.
 
            Length
of Time Between Current and Former Trial Date
            The
current trial date is January 27, 2025, while the former trial date was
September 9, 2024. Plaintiff asserts that an extension of discovery will result
in Defendant continuing the trial date once again. Defendant contends that a
continuance will not be necessary given the remaining discovery motions are
limited. This factor weighs in Defendant’s favor considering the relatively
short delay thus far.
 
            Given the
necessity of this discovery for Defendant and lack of delay or interference
with the current trial date, the Court finds an extension of discovery
warranted.