 Case Number:  23AVCV00898-02    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is an other business tort
action. Plaintiff Arthur Antoine H. Teerlynck (“Plaintiff”) alleges that
Defendant Don H. B. Callaway, also known as Don Howard Blanchard Callaway, also
known as Donald H. Callaway, also known as Don Callaway, also known as Donny
Callaway, also known as Donnie Callaway (“Don”)[1]
and Cara Callaway (“Cara” and collectively “Defendants”) were operating a
business entity at 40123 98th St. W, Leona Valley, California as an unlicensed
automotive repair dealer and unlicensed vehicle dealer. Plaintiff presents that
he is the owner of 11 automobile sand co-owner of one automobile and has had
issues with Defendants over each vehicle as follows:
 
·        
1973 365 GTB/4 Daytona Ferrari – Plaintiff
purchased the Daytona Ferrari and Don conducted a pre-purchase inspection,
quoting $45,000.00 to repair the vehicle. No written statement was given. It
was agreed that the vehicle would be shipped to Belgium when the repairs were
completed or upon demand. Don has failed to and refused to ship the vehicle to
Belgium.
·        
1961 Maserati 3500 Spyder Vignale – Don arranged
for the transfer of the vehicle while it waws being repaired at Beverly Hills
Car Club without Plaintiff’s consent. Don then informed Plaintiff that the
transport company damaged the vehicle and that he would have to take the
vehicle to repair it. Plaintiff was never presented with an estimate or
evidence of damage. Don explained he needed title to the vehicle to ship the
vehicle and that he would ship both the vehicle and title together. It was
agreed upon that the vehicle would be shipped to Belgium upon completion of
repairs or on demand. Don has failed to and refused to ship the vehicle to
Belgium.
·        
1981 Ferrari 512BB – Plaintiff purchased the
vehicle and Don brokered the purchase of the vehicle. Plaintiff paid Don a
broker fee. The vehicle was in Don’s possession for repair during the purchase.
Don failed and refused to turn over vehicle title and ship the vehicle to
Plaintiff. 
·        
1955 Alfa Romeo 1900 Boano – Plaintiff purchased
the vehicle by a seller that was found by Don, who brokered the purchase of the
vehicle. Plaintiff paid Don a brokerage fee. Don informed Plaintiff that the
vehicle did not have a vehicle title and did not provide title to Plaintiff.
Plaintiff retains the bill of sale. Don was to do repairs on the vehicle. It
was agreed that the vehicle would be shipped to Belgium when the repairs were
completed or upon demand. Don has failed to and refused to ship the vehicle to
Belgium.
·        
1955 Alfa Romeo 1900 CSS Ghia Coupe - Plaintiff
purchased the vehicle by a seller that was found by Don, who brokered the
purchase of the vehicle. Plaintiff paid Don a brokerage fee. Don informed
Plaintiff that the vehicle did not have a vehicle title and did not provide
title to Plaintiff. Plaintiff retains the bill of sale. Don was to do repairs
on the vehicle. It was agreed that the vehicle would be shipped to Belgium when
the repairs were completed or upon demand. Don has failed to and refused to
ship the vehicle to Belgium.
·        
1969 Jaguar E-Type series II – Plaintiff
purchased the vehicle from an acquaintance of Don. Don brokered the sale and
Plaintiff paid him a broker’s fee. Don represented that the vehicle was a
perfect car, but then reported that there were hidden flaws requiring service.
Plaintiff was not provided with a written estimate; however, it is presented
that the repairs amounted to $60,000.00. Don shipped the vehicle to Plaintiff.
Subsequently, the vehicle broke down and a professional mechanic in Belgium
provided a diagnostic report which showed that the repairs that Don had
allegedly performed were, in fact, not done. The vehicle also came under a
visitor’s visa. Don instructed Plaintiff to temporarily list Don as the owner
to ease the process of importing. Don visited Belgium and went to the repair
shop. After this visit, the vehicle’s title went missing. 
·        
1976 Rolls Royce Silver Shadow – Plaintiff
purchased the vehicle from Beverly Hills Car Club. The vehicle was shipped with
title to Plaintiff. Don visited Plaintiff in Belgium and went to the repair
shop. After the visit, the vehicle’s title went missing. 
·        
1970 Chevrolet Corvette – Plaintiff purchased
the vehicle from Beverly Hills Car Club. After purchase, the vehicle was
transported to Don for repair services. Plaintiff paid $25,000.00 to Don for
repairs that were never requested or quoted. Once the repairs were finished,
Don shipped the vehicle to Plaintiff. Upon inspection of the vehicle, Plaintiff
discovered that Don had misrepresented the additional repair work he claimed
was performed. 
·        
1986 Ferrari 328GTS - Plaintiff purchased the
vehicle from Beverly Hills Car Club. After purchase, the vehicle was
transported to Don for repair services. Plaintiff paid $97,040.00 to Don for
repairs.. Once the repairs were finished, Don shipped the vehicle to Plaintiff.
Upon inspection of the vehicle, Plaintiff discovered that Don had
misrepresented the additional repair work he claimed was performed.
·        
1966 Alfa Romeo Duetto – Half of the ownership
in the vehicle was purchased by Plaintiff from Don. It was agreed by both
parties that Don would perform repair and restoration services, sell the vehicle,
and the profits would be split 50/50. Significant time passed and the repairs
and restoration services were not done. Plaintiff demanded Don pay Plaintiff
his amount of ownership interest, Don refused.
·        
984 Ferrari Testarossa 2DR Coupe – Plaintiff
purchased the vehicle from a seller in the United Kingdom. The vehicle and
title was shipped to Plaintiff. Don visited Plaintiff in Belgium and went to
the repair shop. After the visit, the vehicle’s title went missing and metal
pieces were found in the vehicle’s spark plugs. Don then posted on social media
statements that the vehicle would ‘never be seen on the road again” and “it’s
last drive.”
·        
1995 Rolls-Royce Flying Spur – Plaintiff
purchased the vehicle from a seller found by Don. Don brokered the sale and
Plaintiff paid Don a broker’s fee. Don took possession of the vehicle for the
purpose of shipping the vehicle to Plaintiff. Later, Don informed Plaintiff
that the vehicle belonged to him and he was claiming it as his broker fee. 
 
Plaintiff claims damages due to
the aforementioned alleged actions of Defendants.
 
On August 11, 2023, Plaintiff
filed his Complaint alleging 19 causes of action for: (1) Unfair Business
Practices (Injunctive Relief – Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code §§ 17203-17204; Cal.
Code Civ. Proc. § 525-534) against all defendants; (2) Violation of the
Automotive Repair Act (Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code §§ 9880, 9984, et seq.;
Title 16 CCR §§ 3353, 3356) against all defendants; (3) Violation of the
California Vehicle Codes §§ 9262 and 11735 et seq. against Don; (4)
Breach of Contract as to the Daytona Ferrari against Don; (5) Breach of
Contract as to the Maserati against Don; (6) Breach of Contract as to the
Ferrari 512BB against Don; (7) Breach of Contract as to the Alfa Romeo Boano
against Don; (8) Breach of Contract as to the Alfra Romeo Ghia against Don; (9)
Breach of Contract as to the Jaguar against Don; (10) Breach of Contract as to
the Corvette against Don; (11) Breach of Contract as to the Ferrari 328 against
Don; (12) Breach of Contract as to the Alfa Romeo Duetto against Don; (13)
Breach of Contract as to the RR Flying Spur against Don; (14) Fraud in
Inducement against Don; (15) Fraud – Intentional Misrepresentation against Don;
(16) Negligent Misrepresentation against Don; (17) Trespass to Chattles against
Don; (18) Conversion against Don; and (19) Appointment of Receiver against all
Defendants.
 
On August 21, 2023, the Court
granted a temporary restraining order.
 
On August 30, 2023, the Court
granted a reissuance of the temporary restraining order and continuance of
hearing for Order to Show Cause.
 
On September 20, 2023, the Court
granted a reissuance of the temporary restraining order and continuance of
hearing for Order to Show Cause as to Don.
 
On October 10, 2023, the Court
granted a reissuance of the temporary restraining order and continuance of
hearing for Order to Show Cause as to Don.
 
On October 18, 2023, Defendants
filed this Motion to Quash. 
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Legal Standard – To require the production of any document
or tangible thing for inspection and copying of a nonparty deponent, the party
seeking discovery must serve on that deponent a deposition subpoena. (Cal. Code
Civ. Proc., §§ 2020.010(b), 2025.280(b); see also Sears, Roebuck & Co.
v. National Union Fire Insurance Co. of Pittsburgh (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th
1342, 1350 [discovery from nonparties is governed by Cal. Code of Civil
Procedure section 2020.010, et seq., and is primarily carried out by way
of subpoena]. A deposition subpoena may command: (1) only the attendance and
testimony of the deponent, (2) only the production of business records for
copying, or (3) the attendance and testimony of the deponent, as well as the
production of business records, other documents, electronically stored
information, and tangible things. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.) Personal
service is required on a non-party deponent, unless “the nonparty deponent
agrees to accept service by mail or electronic service at an address or
electronic service address specified on the deposition record.” (Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1346; see also Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2020.220(c).)¿¿ 
¿ 
Except as modified in Chapter 6 Nonparty
Discovery, “the provisions of Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 1985) of Title
3 of Part 4 of this code, and of Article 4 (commencing with Section 1560) of
Chapter 2 of Division 11 of the Evidence Code, apply to a deposition subpoena.”
(Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2020.030.) Service of a deposition subpoena shall be
effected a sufficient time in advance of the deposition to provide the deponent
a reasonable opportunity to locate and produce any designated documents and, where
personal attendance is commanded, a reasonable time to travel to the place of
deposition. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2020.220(a).) Personal service of any
deposition subpoena is effective to require a deponent who is a resident of
California to: personally appear and testify, if the subpoena so specifies; to
produce any specified documents; and to appear at a court session if the
subpoena so specifies. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2020.220(c).)¿¿ 
¿ 
If a notice of taking of deposition is also
served, that other notice may be set forth in a single document with the notice
required by this subdivision.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 1985.6(e).) 
  
¿Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §1987.1(a) provides,
as follows:¿ “If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the
production of books, documents, electronically stored information, or other
things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of
a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in
subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and
an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court
may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from
unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the
right of privacy of the person.”¿(Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §1987.1(a).) 
 
A motion to quash a deposition subpoena or
deposition notice is used to strike, modify, or impose conditions on a subpoena
or notice that is procedurally or substantively defective. (See Code Civ. Proc.
§§ 1987.1, subd. (a), 2025.410, subd. (c).) Such a motion may be made by: (1)
any party to the action (2) the subpoenaed witness; (3) a person (party or
nonparty) whose consumer, governmental, or employment information or records
have been subpoenaed; or (4) the Court, on its own motion, after giving the parties
notice and the opportunity to be heard. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1987.1, subd. (a),
(b).)
 
The Court has broad discretion to quash a
deposition subpoena upon good cause shown. (Flynn v. Superior Court
(1979) 89 Cal. App.3d 491, 495.) A motion to quash may be based on various
grounds, including that the subpoena: (1) seeks information that is not
relevant to the issues in the case (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010); (2) imposes an
undue burden or expense, taking into account the needs of the case, the amount
in controversy and the importance of the issues at stake in the litigation (see
id. at § 2019.030(a)(2)); and (3) is unreasonably duplicative or
cumulative of discovery already obtained or information that is available from
another source that is more convenient, less burdensome or less expensive. (Id.
at § 2019.030(a)(1).)
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
Application – Defendants
describe the subpoena documents as follows:
 
1.      Item
1. “A complete copy of any and all lease agreements, rental application,
credit score report, evidence of payments, financial statements, contracts and
records between Fox Hangar, LLC and Defendant DON H. B. CALLAWAY, also known as
DON HOWARD BLANCHARD CALLAWAY, also known as DON HOWARD CALLAWAY, also known as
DON H. CALLAWAY, also known as DONALD H. CALLAWAY, also known as DON CALLAWAY,
also known as DONNY CALLAWAY, also known as DONNIE CALLAWAY relating to airport
hangar B10 occupied by Defendant DON H. B. CALLAWAY at the William J. Fox
Airfield. 4725 William J Barnes Ave, Lancaster, CA 93536”  
 
2.      Items,
2, 3 and 4. The same requested documents as described above, but for
hangers B3, C7 and C16.
 
3.       Item 5. “A complete copy of any and all
written communications, including, but not limited to correspondences, letters,
electronic transmissions, emails, texts, facsimile transmissions, memoranda,
notes, or other writings between any representative of Fox Hangar, LLC and
Defendant DON H. B. CALLAWAY, also known as DON HOWARD BLANCHARD CALLAWAY, also
known as DON HOWARD CALLAWAY, also known as DON H. CALLAWAY, also known as
DONALD H. CALLAWAY, also known as DON CALLAWAY, also known as DONNY CALLAWAY,
also known as DONNIE CALLAWAY, relating to airport hangar B10 occupied by
Defendant DON H. B. CALLAWAY at the William J. Fox Airfield located at 4725
William J Sames Ave, Lancaster, CA 93536.”
 
4.      Items
6, 7 and 8. The same requested documents as described above, but for
hangers B3, C7 and C16.
 
(Mtn. to Quash, Notice.)
 
The attached deposition subpoena
supports Defendants’ summary of the items. (See Mtn. to Quash, Exh. A.) 
 
Defendant argues that none of the
causes of action alleged in the Complaint have anything to do with the business
relationship between Don and third-party Fox Hangar, LLC (“Fox Hanger”) and,
thus, has no bearing on the allegations in this action and are an unwarranted
fishing expedition. Defendant presents that the requests are overbroad and lack
any limitation as to time and scope. Defendant also presents that the request
for financial records is impermissible at this point in litigation and are more
suited to a judgment debtor examination. Defendant further argues that there is
no likelihood that any of these requested documents will lead to the discovery
of admissible evidence and violate Don’s right to privacy. 
 
Plaintiff presents that this
information is imperative as it will (1) confirm if Don occupied the premises
which houses Plaintiff’s automobiles and their bits and pieces which are the
subject of this litigation and (2) may prove Don was and is running a business
without a license and concealing cars belonging to the plaintiff. Plaintiff
argues that, as such, the information is discoverable under the broad standard
set by Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010. Plaintiff further argues that, when a
tenant is a party to a lawsuit, the other party may have the right to compel property
owners and managers to provide information concerning their tenancy through a
subpoena, including lease, rental application, payment records, correspondence,
and other written materials in the tenant’s file.
 
Defendants reiterate that whether
Donn occupies the hangers is not related to the matter, the records will not
show where the cars are, that the cars belong to Plaintiff, and whether Don has
a business license. Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s argument section sets
forth only broad principles as to the relevancy of the requested records fit
within the general legal standards mentioned. Defendant highlights that no
declaration was provided to evidence the relevancy of the records. 
 
In considering whether good cause
has been shown to enforce a subpoena subjected to a motion to quash, the
California Supreme Court in the recent case of Facebook, Inc. v. Superior
Court of San Diego County (2020) 10 Cal.5th 329, 345-346 (“Facebook”),
provided a list of seven factors to be considered:
 
·        
Whether the party seeking production has met its
burden of showing a “plausible justification” for obtaining the documents from
a third party witness;
·        
Whether the material sought is adequately
described and not overly broad;
·        
Whether the material is “reasonably available”
to the person from which the records are sought and not readily available to
the person seeking production;
·        
Whether production would violate the
“confidentiality or privacy rights” of a third party;
·        
The timeliness of the request;
·        
Whether the time required to produce the
requested information would unreasonably delay trial;
·        
Whether production of the requested information
places an unreasonable burden on the third party.
 
‘ “A defendant's motion for
discovery must … describe the requested information with at least some degree
of specificity and must be sustained by plausible justification.’ (Ballard,
supra, 64 Cal.2d at p. 167, italics added.) We immediately followed on
that same page by quoting a passage from a then-recent law review article by
Chief Justice Traynor, which, although not employing the italicized phrase,
states: ‘ “A showing … that the defendant cannot readily obtain the information
through his own efforts will ordinarily entitle him to pretrial knowledge of
any unprivileged evidence, or information that might lead to the discovery of
evidence, if it appears reasonable that such knowledge will assist him in
preparing his defense… .” (Traynor, Ground Lost and Found in Criminal
Discovery (1964) 39 N.Y.U. L.Rev. 228, 244; italics added.)’ (Ballard,
at p. 167.)” (Facebook, supra, 10 Cal.5th at 348-49.) Defendant
has shown a need for plausible justification as these items are in the control
of a third party and whether the hanger is occupied by Don relates to
allegations regarding housing of the vehicles at issue in this action and
whether Don is running a business, potentially leading to admissible evidence. However,
the Court believes that credit reports will not lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence. 
 
It appears from the types of
documents sought that these documents concern Don and Fox Hanger; would be
reasonably available to Fox Hanger, as the landlord in the relationship between
itself and Don; and Plaintiff would not be able to obtain such documents from
other sources. The Court notes that there is a potential that Don may have some
documents as a party to the landlord-tenant relationship with Fox Hanger;
however, this is not brought up by either party in this motion. 
 
The material is adequately
described; however, as Defendants point out there is no limitation as to time
and scope. 
 
As to the next element, regarding
privacy, Fox Hanger has not opposed the subpoena. Defendants only have brought
this Motion to Quash. Defendants have, broadly, incorporated a right to privacy
argument. Specifically, Defendants have stated only: (1) “The leases, rental
applications, credit score report, evidence of payments, financial statements
contracts and records between Callaway and Fox Hanger are not reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence in this matter, and
more significantly, violate Callaway’s right to privacy[]” (Mtn. to Quash
5:2-7); and (2) “Code Civ. Proc. §1987.1(a) specifically provides that ‘the
court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from
unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the
right of privacy of the person[]’ ” (Id. 5:9-13); and (3) “The subpoena
to Fox Hangar, LLC is properly quashed under Code Civ. Proc. §1987.1 as an
unreasonable and oppressive demand, and is additionally an unreasonable
violation of Callaway’s right of privacy[]” (Id. at 6:11-13). When
privacy interests are claimed, the burden is on the party “asserting the
privacy interest to establish its extent and the seriousness of the prospective
invasion,” and then the court must weigh the countervailing interests of the
opposing party. (Williams v. Sup. Ct. (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557.) Defendants
have made no showing that establishes the seriousness of the prospective
invasion. As such, Defendants’ do not meet their initial burden of both
establishing a privacy interest and the seriousness of the prospective
invasion. 
 
The Court notes there is also no
legal standard or case law citation provided for Defendants’ argument that the
request for financial records is impermissible at this time. 
 
As to timeliness, this request
has been brought at the beginning of the action (i.e., pleadings stage).
 
Likewise, as the action is only
in its early stages, it does not appear to pose a delay to trial. Specifically,
a date for the trial in this action has not been set. 
 
As to the last element, Whether
production of the requested information places an unreasonable burden on the
third party, there has been no presentation from Defendants, the moving party,
to establish that the documents requested would be burdensome. 
 
Accordingly, the Motion to Quash
is DENIED. The Court modifies the subpoena to exclude the credit score reports.

 
-----
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants Don H. B. Callaway and
Cara Callaway’s Motion to Quash is DENIED.
 
The Court modifies the subpoena to exclude the credit
score reports.


