 Case Number:  23AVCV01003    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a lemon law action. Plaintiff
Lawanda Sanford (“Plaintiff”) alleges that on or about July 05, 2020, she
entered into a warranty contract with Defendant Ford Motor Company (“FMC”)
regarding a 2020 Ford 150 with vehicle identification number 1FTEW1CP4LFA57967
(the “Subject Vehicle”) which contained various warranties. Plaintiff further
alleges that defects and nonconformities to the warranty manifested within the
applicable express warranty period, FMC had a duty to offer to repurchase or
replace the Subject Vehicle after it failed to conform the Subject Vehicle to
the terms of the express warranty after a reasonable number of attempts, and
FMC failed to do so. Regarding Defendant Diamond Ford (“Diamond”), Plaintiff
alleges that Diamond breached its duty to Plaintiff to use ordinary care and
skills by failing to property store, prepare, and repair the Subject Vehicle. 
 
On September 28, 2023, Plaintiff
filed her Complaint alleging six causes of action: (1) Violation of Subdivision
(d) of Cal. Civ. Code § 1793.2 against FMC; (2) Violation of Subdivision (b) of
Cal. Civ. Code § 1793.2 against FMC; (3) Violation of Subdivision (a)(3) of
Cal. Civ. Code § 1793.2 against FMC; (4) Breach of the Implied Warranty of
Merchantability (Cal. Civ. Code §§ 1791.1, 1794, 1795) against FMC; (5)
Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment against FMC; and (6) Negligent Repair
against Diamond.
 
On November 03, 2023, Ford and
Diamond (collectively “Defendants”) filed this Demurrer.
 
On January 02, 2024, Plaintiff
filed her Opposition.
 
On January 08, 2024, Defendants
filed their Reply. 
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Standard for Demurrer – A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.¿
(Hahn v.¿Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.
App. 4th 740, 747.) ¿When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context.¿ (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power¿(2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th
1216, 1228.)¿ In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the
face of the pleading or by proper judicial notice.¿ (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §
430.30(a).)¿A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters.¿ (SKF Farms v. Superior Court¿(1984)
153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)¿ Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear
on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.¿¿(Id.)¿¿The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn,¿supra,¿147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)¿¿¿¿¿
¿¿¿¿¿
A
general demurrer admits the truth of all factual, material allegations properly
pled in the challenged pleading, regardless of possible difficulties of proof.
(Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d
311, 318.) Thus, no matter how unlikely or improbable, plaintiff’s allegations
must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co.
(1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604.) Nevertheless, this rule does not apply to
allegations expressing mere conclusions of law, or allegations contradicted by
the exhibits to the complaint or by matters of which judicial notice may be
taken. (Vance v. Villa Park Mobilehome Estates (1995)
36 Cal.App.4th 698, 709.) A general demurrer does not admit contentions,
deductions, or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the complaint; facts
impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take
judicial notice. (Blank,
supra, 39 Cal.3d at p. 318.)
¿¿¿¿¿¿
Pursuant
to¿Code Civ. Proc.¿§430.10(e), the party against whom a complaint has been
filed may object by demurrer to the pleading on the grounds that the pleading
does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.¿ It is an
abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer if there is a reasonable probability
that the defect can be cured by amendment.¿¿(Schifando¿v.
City of Los Angeles¿(2003) 31 Cal.4th 1074, 1082,¿as modified
(Dec. 23, 2003).)¿¿¿¿¿¿
 
-----
 
Meet and Confer Requirement¿– Before filing a demurrer or a motion to strike,
the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the party who
filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the motion to
strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached
through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.¿ (Cal. Code Civ.¿Proc. §430.41 and §435.5.)¿ The Court
notes that this requirement has been met. (See Decl. Chen Fei Liu ¶ 3.)
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
Application – Defendants
demur to the Fifth Cause of Action (Fraudulent Inducement) and the Sixth Cause
of Action (Negligent Repair).
 
i.       
Fifth Cause of Action (Negligent Repair) against
FMC
 
Defendant presents that Plaintiff
has failed to plead sufficient facts state her fraud claim. Specifically,
Defendant believes Plaintiff must plead (1) concealment or suppression of a
material fact, (2) a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3)
intentional concealment or suppression of the fact with the intent to defraud
the plaintiff, (4) that the plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as she did if she had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and
(5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiffs
sustained damage. Defendant further presents that (1) Plaintiff has failed to
plead the defect that ford concealed as Plaintiff has not stated what the
defect in the Subject Vehicle is, Plaintiff’s allegations are boilerplate, and
Plaintiff has not identified where the omitted information could or should have
been revealed; (2) Plaintiff has not alleged a duty to disclose under LiMandri
v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326 (“LiMandri”); (3) Plaintiff
fails to plead a direct transactional relationship; (4) Plaintiff has failed to
plead that FMC had exclusive knowledge as Plaintiff’s allegations are
conclusory as Plaintiff has only pointed out pre-production testing and
consumer complaints; (5) Plaintiff has failed to plead active concealment; (6)
Plaintiff has failed to plead that FMC made partial representations while
suppressing a material fact; and (7) Plaintiff’s claim is barred by the
economic loss rule as Plaintiff’s claims amount to non-performance under the
warranty and is not distinct so as to give rise to an independent duty.
 
Plaintiff presents the elements
of fraud, citing Dhital v. Nissan N. Am., Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828
(“Dhital”), and highlights that the specificity requirement is lax in
cases on non-disclosure. Plaintiff presents that she has alleged the elements
of non-disclosure under Dhital. Plaintiff next argues that a direct
transactional relationship is not required under Dhital and that the
transmission defect is a material fact as it poses safety risks and arose
during the warranty period. As to the economic loss rule, Plaintiff once again
relies on Dhital, highlighting that the Dhital ruling discussed
Defendants’ cited case, Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp.
(2004) 34 Cal. 4th 979, 988 (“Robinson Helicopter Co.”), holding that it
affirmed that tort damages are available in contract cases where the contract
was fraudulently induced. Plaintiff also presents that California case
precedent evidences a longstanding exception to the economic loss rule in cases
of fraudulent inducement to enter a contract, citing Kuchta v. Allied
Builders Corp. (1971) 21 Cal.App.3d 541; Walker v. Signal Companies,
Inc. (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 982; Harris v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 70; and Las Palmas Associates v. Las Palmas Center
Associates (1991) 235 Cal.App.3d 1220 (“Las Palmas Associates”).
Plaintiff further highlights cases distinguishing punitive damages based on
fraudulent inducement and Song-Beverly damages in which the courts have held
that the fraudulent inducement action is based on different conduct that
occurred before sales of vehicles. 
 
Defendants emphasize that Dhital
is persuasive authority only due to the pending review by the California
Supreme Court. Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s argument that no transactional
relationship is required is a misstatement of the law, Dhital required a
transactional relationship, Plaintiff does not pled facts establishing that
there is a defect in her vehicle, and that Plaintiff does not dispute that exclusive
knowledge has not been pled, and that Plaintiff has failed to plead active
concealment. Defendants reiterate that the economic loss rule bars Plaintiff’s
fraud claim. 
 
“[T]he elements of an action for
fraud and deceit based on a concealment are: (1) the defendant must have
concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under
a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have
intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the
plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and
(5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff
must have sustained damage.” (Boschma v. Home Loan Center, Inc. (2011)
198 Cal.App.4th 230, 248.) LiMandri provides four circumstances in which
nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when the
defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the
defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff;
(3) when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff;
and (4) when the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses
some material facts. (See LiMandri, supra, 52 Cal.App.4th at
336.)
 
As to the defect, the Complaint
clearly identifies a transmission defect. (See Complaint ¶¶ 25-36.) Plaintiff
has also pled that FMC had superior and/or exclusive knowledge of the
transmission defect. (See Complaint ¶ 25 [“Defendant FMC knew that vehicles
equipped with the same 10-speed transmission as the Vehicle suffered from one
or more defects that can cause the vehicles and their 10-speed transmissions to
experience hesitation and/or delayed acceleration; harsh and/or hard shifting;
jerking, shuddering, and/or juddering (‘Transmission Defect’).”].) Plaintiff
alleges that FMC gained such knowledge from “pre-production testing,
pre-production design failure mode and analysis data, production failure mode
and analysis data, early consumer complaints made exclusively to Ford's network
of dealers and directly to Ford, aggregate warranty data compiled from Ford's
network of dealers, testing conducted by Ford in response to consumer
complaints, and repair order and parts data received by Ford from Ford's network
of dealers” and highlights technical service bulletins that FMC issued.
(Complaint ¶ 26, see also ¶¶ 28-33.) Plaintiff further alleges that had the
transmission defect been disclosed, she would not have purchased the Subject
Vehicle. (See Complaint ¶ 35.) FMC does not discuss the TSBs. The Court
believes that, as such, the TSBs allow for a reasonable inference that FMC had
superior and/or exclusive knowledge of the transmission defect. With that in
place, “[l]ess specificity is required when it ‘appears from the nature of the
allegations that the defendant must necessarily possess full information
concerning the facts of the controversy.’ ” (Committee on Children's
Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216 [quoting Bradley
v. Hartford Acc.& Indem. Co. (1973) 30 Cal.App.3d 818, 825].) That is,
the specificity requirement is greatly relaxed or eliminated under
circumstances where the defendant must necessarily possess superior information
of the fraud. (Id., at 216-217; see also Silberg v. Anderson
(1990) 50 Cal.3d 205, 212-213.) Further, exclusive knowledge satisfies a
circumstance in which nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable
fraud without a fiduciary relationship. (See LiMandri, supra, 52
Cal.App.4th at 366.)
 
The Court also notes that Bigler-Engler
v. Berg, Inc. (“Bigler-Engler”) states:
 
This court examined
the circumstances giving rise to a duty to disclose in LiMandri v. Judkins
(1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326 [60 Cal. Rptr. 2d 539] (LiMandri). In that
case, we explained, “There are ‘four circumstances in which nondisclosure or
concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a
fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive
knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant
actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the
defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses some material
facts.’” (Id. at p. 336.) Where, as here, a fiduciary relationship does
not exist between the parties, only the latter three circumstances may apply.
These three circumstances, however, “presuppose[] the existence of some other
relationship between the plaintiff and defendant in which a duty to disclose
can arise.” (Id. at pp. 336–337.) “A duty to disclose facts arises only
when the parties are in a relationship that gives rise to the duty, such as
‘“seller and buyer, employer and prospective employee, doctor and patient, or
parties entering into any kind of contractual arrangement.”’” (Shin v. Kong
(2000) 80 Cal.App.4th 498, 509 [95 Cal. Rptr. 2d 304].)
 
(Bigler-Engler, supra,
7 Cal.App.5th at 311.)
 
Defendants fail to address that FMC
has entered a contractual arrangement with Plaintiff via the warranty at issue.

 
As to concealment, Plaintiff has
pled that the transmission defect was not disclosed by FMC during the sale and
“Plaintiff could not reasonably have been expected to learn or discover of the
Vehicle's Transmission Defect and its potential consequences until well after
Plaintiff purchased the Vehicle.” (Complaint ¶ 64(d).) Whereas Bigler-Engler
focused on the general principle that a manufacturer has a duty to warn
consumers of a product's hazards and faults, based on strict products
liability, and the need to clarify misleading half-truths, this action focuses
on concealment when a defendant has superior or exclusive knowledge. (See Bigler-Engler,
supra, 7 Cal.App.5th at 312-13.) The Court notes that in cases discussing
omissions, it has been held that it is “impossible to demonstrate reliance on
something that one was not told” and “one need only prove that, had the omitted
information been disclosed, one would have been aware of it and behaved
differently.” (See Mirkin v. Wasserman (1993) 5 Cal.4th 1082, 1093.)
 
At this point of the analysis the
following elements have been pled: (1) the defendant must have concealed or
suppressed a material fact (i.e., the transmission defect), (2) the defendant
must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff which arises
here due to superior and/or exclusive knowledge, (3) the plaintiff must have
been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of
the concealed or suppressed fact (i.e., as pled, Plaintiff would not have
purchased the Subject Vehicle).
 
As to the remaining elements,
intent to defraud and damages, “fraudulent intent is an issue for the trier of
fact to decide” and Plaintiff has pled damages in the form of the loss of the
Subject Vehicle, which is now de minimis, and exposure to the risk of
liability, accident and injury. (Beckwith v. Dahl (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th
1039, 1061; Complaint ¶¶ 16, 71). 
 
The Court notes that, at this
time, the California Supreme Court has granted review of Dhital. As
such, the Dhital holding may be cited only for persuasive value. (See
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 8.1115(e)(1).) The Court believes that its analysis, ante,
sufficiently addresses the concerns of the parties without a discussion of Dhital.
 
With the elements met, the Court
turns next to the economic loss rule. 
 
Economic loss consists of damages
for inadequate value, costs of repair and replacement of the defective product
or consequent loss of profits, without any claim of personal injury or damages
to other property. (Robinson Helicopter Co, supra, 34 Cal. 4th 979, 988.)
The economic loss rule provides that where a purchaser's expectations in a sale
are frustrated because the product purchased is not working properly, the
remedy is in contract alone: the purchaser has suffered only
"economic" losses. (Id.) The economic loss rule requires a
purchaser to recover in contract for purely economic loss due to disappointed
expectations, unless they can demonstrate harm above and beyond a broken
contractual promise. (Id.) Finally, the economic loss rule prevents the
law of contract and the law of tort from dissolving one into the other. (Id.)

 
FMC seeks a narrow reading of Robinson
Helicopter Co. However, although Robinson Helicopter Co. was
premised, in part, on fraud via affirmative misrepresentations (the
certifications), there is no reason to assume that its rationale would not also
apply in the context of a concealment claim such as the one pled in this
action. An intentional decision to conceal damaging material facts in order to
induce action (a vehicle purchase) is functionally indistinguishable from an
intentional misrepresentation. The Robison Helicopter Co. court relied
on Elrich v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543 (“Elrich”) which stated,
“the duty that gives rise to tort liability is either completely independent of
the contract or arises from conduct which is both intentional and intended to
harm.” (Elrich v. Menezes, supra, 21 Cal.4th at 552.) Elrich also
referred to a finding of a tortious breach of contract when the breach is
accompanied by a traditional common law tort, such as fraud or conversion; or
when the means used to breach the contract are tortious, involving deceit or
undue coercion. (Id. at 553-54.) Elrich also relied upon Las Palmas
Associates, supra, 235 Cal.App.3d 1220 which states, “We are aware of the
danger of grafting tort liability on what ordinarily should be a breach of
contract action. While society has a strong interest in the security of
transactions, parties dealing at arm's length are permitted to reach a reasoned
decision to breach an agreement, knowing their risk is limited to the
reimbursement of the other side's compensatory losses. However, no public
policy is served by permitting a party who never intended to fulfill his
obligations to fraudulently induce another to enter into an agreement.” (Las
Palmas Associates, supra, 235 Cal.App.3d at 1238.) Thus, while Robinson
Helicopter Co. is limited by its facts, its cited authority does not
support a narrow interpretation. Thus, fraud is an independent tort such that
the economic loss rule does not bar the claim for fraud. 
 
Further, as to underlying basis
between the Fifth Cause of Action (Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment) and
Plaintiff’s other claims directed against FMC, while FMC argues that there is
no misrepresentation beyond a broken contractual promise, there is support that
omissions during sale is separate and distinct from the contractual performance
at issue in Song-Beverly claims. Specifically, several courts, in their
discussion damages, have found the underlying basis for fraud claims in
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Action to be premised on pre-sale fraudulent
inducement while the Song-Beverly claims were premised on post-sale willful
noncompliance. (See Anderson v. Ford Motor Co. (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th
946, 970-73; Bowser v. Ford Motor Co. (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 587, 626-27.)
 
The Court believes that its
analysis on the economic loss rule, ante, sufficiently addresses the
concerns of the parties without a discussion of Dhital.
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer to the
Fifth Cause of Action (Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment) is OVERRULED.
 
ii.      Sixth
Cause of Action (Negligent Repair) against Diamond
 
Defendants argue that the Sixth
Cause of Action (Negligent Repair) is barred by the economic loss rule as
Diamond’s alleged failure to repair the Subject Vehicle is not independent of
the warranty contract. Defendants cite to various federal cases and Aas v.
Superior Court (2000) 24 Cal.4th 627. Defendants further argue that this
claim fails as it does not show that Diamond’s conduct resulted in any damages.
 
Plaintiff cites to a federal case
which discussed Burgess v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 1064 for the
elements of negligent repair and argues that she has met all the essential
elements required. Plaintiff cites to various cases holding that the economic
loss rule does not bar negligent repair claims. 
 
Defendants argue that the special
relationship or “components exception” does not apply. Defendants believe North
American Chemical Co. v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 764 (“North
American Chemical Co.”) is inapposite and Biakanja v. Irving (1958)
49 Cal.2d 647 (“Biakanja”) has provided a test for a special
relationship. Defendant also discusses Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
(2022) 12 Cal.5th 905 (“Sheen”), Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21
Cal.4th 543, and Robinson Helicopter Co. and argues that these cases
apply and show that Plaintiff cannot recover under her Sixth Cause of Action
(Negligent Repair) as the special relationship exception does not apply and
liability in negligence for purely economic losses is the exception and not the
rule. Defendants further argue that Plaintiff’s reliance on Jimenez v.
Superior Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 473 for the component exception does not
apply and that Plaintiff’s Sixth Cause of Action (Negligent Repair) fails to
state damages. 
 
The Court has discussed the
economic loss rule, ante. In Sheen, the principles of the
economic loss rule were reiterated. (See Sheen, 12 Cal.5th at 922 [“In
general, there is no recovery in tort for negligently inflicted ‘purely
economic losses,’ meaning financial harm unaccompanied by physical or property
damage.”].) However, Sheen also recognized that there were exceptions to
the economic loss rule for consumers who contract for certain kinds of professional
services: 
 
In that context, . .
. a cause of action for negligence ensures that the consumer receives the
services the professional agreed to provide. In such settings, professionals
generally agree to provide “careful efforts” in rendering contracted-for
services, but “most clients do not know enough to protect themselves by
inspecting the professional's work or by other independent means.” (Rest., § 4,
com. a, p. 22; see also Neel, supra, 6 Cal.3d at p. 188.) Given this disparity,
a claim for professional negligence can serve the important purpose of ensuring
that professionals render the “careful efforts” they have contracted to
provide. (Rest., § 4, com. a, p. 22.)
 
(Id. at 933.)
 
Further, in a negligent
performance case, a “plaintiff will be entitled to recover economic loss
damages without the need to allege and prove personal injury or property damage”
based on a consideration of the following factors: “(1) the extent to which the
transaction was intended to affect the plaintiff, (2) the foreseeability of
harm to the plaintiff, (3) the degree of certainty that the plaintiff suffered
injury, (4) the closeness of the connection between the defendant's conduct and
the injury suffered, (5) the moral blame attached to the defendant's conduct,
and (6) the policy of preventing future harm.” (North American Chemical Co.,
supra, 59 Cal.App.4th 764, 782.) “[T]he foreseeability of the economic harm
to the plaintiff from the defendant's negligent conduct [is] the critical
factor.” (Id. at 782.)
 
Though Defendants believe that North
American Chemical Co. is inapposite, it directly concerns a contract for
the performances of services and remains binding law. The North American
Chemical Co. also explicitly considered Biakanja in its ruling: “ ‘[T]he
factors enumerated in Biakanja and applied in subsequent cases place a limit on
recovery by focusing judicial attention on the foreseeability of the injury and
the nexus between the defendant's conduct and the plaintiff's injury. These
factors and ordinary principles of tort law such as proximate cause are fully
adequate to limit recovery without the drastic consequence of an absolute rule
which bars recovery in all such cases. [Citation.] Following these principles,
recovery for negligent interference with prospective economic advantage will be
limited to instances where the risk of harm is foreseeable and is closely
connected with the defendant's conduct, where damages are not wholly
speculative and the injury is not part of the plaintiff's ordinary business
risk.’ ” (North American Chemical Co., supra, 59 Cal.App.4th 764,
782 [citing Biakanja].)
 
Here, Plaintiff delivered her car
for repair—a professional service—and reasonably expected that Diamond would
perform the repair with care and skill. The transaction was clearly intended to
affect the Plaintiff because the transaction was for repair of her car. The
harm to Plaintiff was foreseeable in the event Defendant negligently repaired the
Subject Vehicle. Plaintiff alleges damages due to the negligent repair (i.e.,
the Subject Vehicle value and possibly exposure to the risk of liability,
accident and injury due to incorporation of the previous paragraphs) and public
policy supports imposing liability for negligent repair where the car may
result in injury to the owner or others on the road. 
 
In sum, even if Plaintiff's
damages are solely economic, he may still seek recovery because the economic
loss rule does not apply in cases involving the negligent performance of
services that results in foreseeable injury.
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer to the
Sixth Cause of Action (Negligent Repair) is OVERRULED.
 
-----
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants Ford Motor Company and
Diamond Ford’s Demurrer is OVERRULED.