 Case Number:  23STCV07247    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  40                                                                                                                                       
  
Superior Court of California
 
County of Los Angeles
 
Department 40
 



SURENDRA BHAVNANI DBA LAXMI IMPEX,
Plaintiff,
v.
GREENLEAF DIAMONDS, LLC, ANDRE SENGUL DBA GREENLEAF
  DIAMONDS, and DOES 1 through 20,
Defendants.
  
 


 Case No.: 23STCV07247
 Hearing Date: July 11, 2024
 Trial Date: N/A
[TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant Andre Sengul dba Greenleaf Diamonds, LLC’s
  Motion to Set Aside Default and Default Judgment



 
On May 16,
2023, Plaintiff SURENDRA BHAVNANI DBA LAXMI IMPEX (“Plaintiff”) filed the
operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants GREENLEAF
DIAMONDS, LLC (“GDL”),
ANDRE SENGUL DBA GREELEAF DIAMONDS (“Sengul”), and DOES 1 through 20
(collectively, “Defendants”). The FAC asserts the following causes of action
against all Defendants: 
 
1.
Breach of Contract
2. Book
Account
3. Goods
Sold and Delivered
 
On June 28,
2023, default was entered against Defendant Sengul. Subsequently, default
judgment was entered against Defendant Sengul in the amount of $101,364.86 on
October 20, 2023.
 
Defendant
Sengul now brings a Motion to Set Aside/Vacate Default and Default Judgment,
which Plaintiff has not opposed.  A proof
of service is attached to the motion showing service on Plaintiff’s counsel at
the address on the Judgment entered 10/20/23.
 
After
review, the Court GRANTS the Motion because Defendant Sengul has shown he did
not have actual notice of the action in time to defend on the merits.
 
Background Allegations
 
This
action involves seven written contractual agreements between Plaintiff and
Defendant Sengul for the sale of certain diamonds to Defendants in the amounts
of $394.00, $30,294.00, $5,680.00, $17,769.00, $14,650.00, $3,300.00, and
$285.00. (Compl., ¶9, Ex. 1.) Each agreement was to be paid in full within 120
days from the date of each memorandum. (Id.) Defendant Sengul failed to
make any payments on the seven agreements resulting in a balance owed of
$72,372.00. (Id. at ¶10.) Plaintiff made a demand for payment on the
balance due and Defendant Sengul has refused to pay it. (Id. at ¶11.)
 
Motion to Set Aside/Vacate Default and
Default Judgment
 
Legal Standard: “When service
of a summons has not resulted in actual notice to a party in time to defend the
action and a default or default judgment has been entered against him or her in
the action, he or she may serve and file a notice of motion to set aside the
default or default judgment and for leave to defend the action. The notice of
motion shall be served and filed within a reasonable time, but in no event
exceeding the earlier of: (i)¿two years after entry of a default judgment
against him or her; or (ii)¿180 days after service on him or her of a written
notice that the default or default judgment has been entered.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 473.5(a).)¿¿ 
¿ 
“A notice of
motion to set aside a default or default judgment and for leave to defend the
action shall designate as the time for making the motion a date prescribed by
subdivision (b) of Section 1005, and it shall be accompanied by an affidavit
showing under oath that the party’s lack of actual notice in time to defend the
action was not caused by his or her avoidance of service or inexcusable
neglect. The party shall serve and file with the notice a copy of the answer,
motion, or other pleading proposed to be filed in the action.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 473.5(b).) 
¿ 
“Upon a finding
by the court that the motion was made within the period permitted by
subdivision (a) and that his or her lack of actual notice in time to defend the
action was not caused by his or her avoidance of service or inexcusable
neglect, it may set aside the default or default judgment on whatever terms as
may be just and allow the party to defend the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
473.5(c).) 
 
Here,
Defendant Sengul contends he has been living in Maui, Hawaii for the past ten
years and working at his business Greenleaf Diamonds in Maui at the time the
purported service of process was rendered. (Sengul Decl., ¶¶2-3, 7, Exs. 1-2.) Defendant
Sengul further contends that the 4220 Mesa Drive, La Canada, Flintridge, CA
property where the purported service of process was effectuated is his
investment Airbnb property that was being rented out by third-party guests
during the time service was rendered. (Id. at ¶¶4-5, Exs. 3-4.)
Moreover, Defendant Sengul asserts he became aware of this pending case in
early March of this year, when he received a notice letter from his California
bank that a deposition subpoena for his bank records had been issued by Plaintiff’s
counsel Timothy Krantz. (Id. at ¶¶6, 13.) Defendant Sengul has provided
photographic evidence that he was not physically present in California when the
alleged personal service was effectuated. Defendant Sengul has also produced
evidence that the property where service was effectuated was occupied by Airbnb
guests at the time when service was rendered.  Additionally, Defendant Sengul has submitted a
proposed Answer with the instant motion. Lastly, Plaintiff has not opposed the
present motion as to contest the arguments and evidence raised therein. 
 
Therefore,
Defendant Sengul presents sufficient grounds for discretionary relief under
Code of Civil Procedure Section 473.5. 
Conclusion 
Based on
the foregoing, Defendant Andre Sengul dba Greenleaf Diamonds, LLC’s Motion to
Set Aside/Vacate Default and Default Judgment is GRANTED. Defendant Sengul is
ordered to file his Answer within 20 days of this order.