  Case Number:  22STCV04061    Hearing Date:   January 3, 2025    Dept:  78  Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78 ¿ MONTANO INVESTMENTS, INC., Plaintiff(s), vs. USA REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT SERVICES, INC., et al., Defendant(s). Case No.: 22STCV04061 (C/W 22STUD00257, 22STUD00250) Hearing Date: January 3, 2025   [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION TO DISQUALIFY COUNSEL  I. BACKGROUND On August 4, 2022, plaintiff Montano Investments, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against defendants USA Real Estate Investment Services, Inc. (“USA”), Marc Mendez also known as Marcus Mendez (“Mendez”), Anchor Finance LLC (sued as Doe 1); Lima Loans LLC (sued as Doe 2); CoreVest Loans, LLC (sued as Doe 3); Ismael Pereda (Doe 4); C& H Trust Deed Services, LLC (sued as Doe 5); The Trustee of the Gay Wilkinson Family Survivors Trust (sued as Doe 6); Equity Trust Company, as Custodian for the benefit of Jorge De La Cal IRA and for the benefit of Leslie Sechler IRA (sued as Doe 7); and Does 8-20. The FAC alleges that Mendez defrauded Plaintiff out of real property by forging Plaintiff’s signature on a promissory note, and that USA, through its agent Mendez, abused process in bad faith by foreclosing after stonewalling a legitimate sale by relying on fraudulent and forged documents. (FAC¶ 1.) The FAC sets forth eleven causes of action for (1) Malicious Prosecution; (2) Quiet Title; (3) Fraud; (4) Civil Conspiracy to Commit Fraud; (5) Aiding And Abetting Fraud; (6) Rescission; (7) Equitable Set Aside Of Foreclosure; (8) Wrongful Foreclosure; (9) Abuse of Process; (10) Violation of Civil Code § 2943; and (11) Promissory Estoppel. Plaintiff is represented by Dana Delman, Esq./John Vukmanovic Esq. of Delman Vukmanovic LLP (“Vukmanovic”). On October 23, 2024, Mendez in pro per filed the instant motion to disqualify Vukmanovic on the grounds that Vukmanovic represented Plaintiff in the defense of a prior litigation concerning the same property at issue in Kim v. Montano Investments, Inc., Case No. B699423 ( “Kim Action”). Mendez argues while he was president of USA, USA paid half of Plaintiff’s retainer to Vukmanovic, such that Vukmanovic may not take an adverse position to both Mendez and USA.  On November 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition arguing that the State Bar had already investigated Mendez’s claim of conflict of interest and found that the claim did not warrant further action and closed the matter. Plaintiff contends Mendez lacks standing to assert any corporate conflict on behalf of USA, nor is there any evidence that confidential or propriety information was exchanged to create a conflict of interest or prior attorney-client relationship. Additionally, Plaintiff argues that the Kim Action involved specific performance, whereas the current matter focuses on disputes surrounding promissory notes and wrongful foreclosure by USA, such that any information Vukmanovic may have learned in the Kim Action has no bearing on the current litigation. On November 19, 2024, Mendez filed a reply arguing that nonpublic information was disclosed to Vukmanovic in the Kim Action, and lists documents specific to USA. Further, Mendez accuses Plaintiff’s counsel of using AI to create non-existent California Rules of Professional Conduct and case law. Preliminary, the Court will not consider arguments raised by Mendez on behalf of co-defendant USA. USA is represented by its own counsel and has the means and ability to advocate for itself, should it seek to do so. The Court’s focus for the instant motion is on the relationship between Mendez and Plaintiff’s counsel.  II. LEGAL STANDARD The court has inherent power to control in furtherance of justice, the conduct of its ministerial officers, and of all other persons in any manner connected with a judicial proceeding before it, in every manner pertaining thereto.¿ (CCP § 128(a)(5).)¿ This includes the power to disqualify counsel in appropriate cases. (In re Complex Asbestos Litig. (1991) 232 Cal.App.3d 572, 575; In re Marriage of Zimmerman (1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 556, 562 [“Disqualification of counsel may be ordered ‘when necessary in furtherance of justice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 128, subd. (a)(5).)’”].)¿ “… The paramount concern must be to preserve public trust in the scrupulous administration of justice and the integrity of the bar. The important right to counsel of one's choice must yield to ethical considerations that affect the fundamental principles of our judicial process.” (Kirk v. First American Title Ins. Co. (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 776, 791-792.)¿Generally, the disqualification of an attorney vicariously disqualifies his or her firm.¿(William H. Raley Co. v. Superior Court (1983)¿149 Cal.App.3d 1042, 1048–1049.) “Motions to disqualify counsel are especially prone to tactical abuse because disqualification imposes heavy burdens on both the clients and courts: clients are deprived of their chosen counsel, litigation costs inevitably increase and delays inevitably occur. As a result, these motions must be examined ‘carefully to ensure that literalism does not deny the parties substantial justice.’ [Citation] At the same time, we recognize that disqualification of counsel is necessary under certain circumstances, to protect the integrity of our judicial process by enforcing counsel's duties of confidentiality and loyalty. [Citations.]”¿ (City of Santa Barbara v. Superior Court (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 17, 23 fn. omitted.) In ruling on a motion to disqualify, the court should weigh: (1) the party's right to counsel of choice; (2) the attorney's interest in representing a client; (3) the financial burden on a client of change of counsel; (4) any tactical abuse underlying a disqualification motion; and (5) the principal that the fair resolution of disputes requires vigorous representation of parties by independent counsel. (Mills Land & Water Co. v. Golden West Refining Co. (1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 116, 126.)¿Whether an attorney should be disqualified is a matter addressed to the sound discretion of the trial court. (Henriksen v. Great American Savings & Loan (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 109, 113.)  III. DISCUSSION “A lawyer who has formerly represented a client in a matter shall not thereafter represent another person in the same or a substantially related matter in which that person’s interests are materially adverse to the interests of the former client unless the former client gives informed written consent.”¿(Rules of Prof. Conduct, Rule 1.9(a).) The salient facts provided by Mendez are as follows. Plaintiff and USA had a business relationship in which the two entities worked together to fix up properties in Los Angeles. In the Kim Action, Plaintiff was sued for breach of contract; USA and Mendez were non-parties to the lawsuit, but had an interest in the property at issue. At that time, Mendez served as President for USA. As a result of the Kim Action, Mendez contacted Vukmanovic to retain the firm to defend Plaintiff and USA. After Plaintiff signed the retainer agreement with Vukmanovic, USA issued a retainer check to Vukmanovic for the co-hiring, and Mendez participated in litigation discussions concerning the Kim Action. Mendez provided USA documents to Vukmanovic, such as USA’s private lending program, financials and earnings projections, information concerning individuals, loans on property, and issues of select deeds of trust. Mendez argues that because he was involved with the Kim Action, an attorney-client relationship was formed between him and Vukmanovic, such that Vukmanovic may not now take an adverse position against Mendez as a former client. Mendez asserts an attorney representing a corporation also represents its officers, in reliance on Meehan v. Hopps (1956) 144 Cal.App.2d 284, 290. The Court finds that Meehan does not support Mendez’s position. Meehan was an action by an insurance company’s receiver against a former officer, who sought to disqualify the receiver’s attorneys who previously acted for the corporation. The motion to disqualify was based upon the alleged dual relationship of the receiver’s attorneys towards the former officer, on the grounds that the former officer turned over to the firm certain files, documents, and other information which plaintiffs have used and threatened to use against him in the action.  The Meehan court discussed the effect of representation of a company, stating: “Appellant has not cited, nor have we found, any case holding that an attorney for a corporation is disqualified from representing it in an action brought by it against one of its officers, nor that in such an action the attorney may not use information received from such officer in connection with company matters.¿The attorney for a corporation represents it, its stockholders and its officers¿in their representative capacity.¿He in nowise represents the officers personally.¿It would be a sorry state of affairs if when a controversy arises between an attorney's corporate client and one of its officers he could not use on behalf of his client information which that officer was required by reason of his position with the corporation to give to the attorney.” (Meehan, supra, 144 Cal. App. 2d at 290 (emphasis added).) Mendez’s involvement in the Kim Action for specific performance of a contract was in his representative capacity on behalf of USA, whereas here Mendez is being sued on an individual basis for fraud. In determining whether an attorney-client relationship exists, the court should consider whether the totality of the circumstances implies such a relationship.¿(Responsible Citizens v. Superior Court (1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 1717, 1733.) The retainer agreement was signed by Plaintiff, with half of Vukmanovic’s retainer paid for by USA and the other half by Golden Rule Lending, Inc. All the information and documents disclosed to Vukmanovic by Mendez, as listed by Mendez in his moving papers and reply, relate to USA. There is no indication that any confidential personal information of Mendez was ever involved in the meetings, document sharing, or discussions to cancel the 1.2 million dollar purchase agreement in the Kim Action, such that it would raise a colorable inference of an implied attorney-client relationship between Vukmanovic and Mendez personally. As such, the Court cannot find that Rules of Prof. Conduct, Rule 1.9(a) to have been violated as it relates to Mendez. Lastly, the Court addresses Mendez’s argument that Plaintiff used AI to generate false case cites/opinions in the opposing brief. Mendez identifies two such citations: Dole Food Co. v. Patrickson (2003) 538 U.S. 468, 474 (Dole) and California Rules of Professional Conduct (CRPC) 1.9(a). Mendez argues Plaintiff’s legal contention that an officer, director, or shareholder cannot assert claims based solely on the corporation’s interests unless the corporation itself joins the action or is directly represented is nowhere to be found in the Dole opinion. Mendez also contends CRPC 1.9(a) does not exist, and that the subdivision under (a) under the CRPC is different from what Plaintiff’s counsel has stated.  Indeed, the Court cannot locate that proposition anywhere in Dole. As for CRPC 1.9, CRPC 1.9 subd. (a) does exist. The closest match to the professional rule as recited by Plaintiff is under CRPC 1.9, subd. (c), which provides that a lawyer who has formerly represented a client or whose present or former firm has formerly represented a client in a matter shall not thereafter use information acquired by virtue of the representation or reveal information except as those rules or the State Bar Act would permit. Overall, the Court cannot conclude that Plaintiff’s counsel utilized AI to write the opposing brief—as opposed to, for example, simply making an error—when of the approximately seventeen cites included within it, Mendez has only identified two that he alleges to be false. The Court nonetheless cautions Plaintiff’s counsel to remember their duty of candor towards the Court.  IV. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Motion to Disqualify Counsel filed by Marc Mendez is DENIED.  Moving Party is ordered to give notice.  DATED: January 2, 2025 __________________________ Hon. Tiana J. Murillo Judge of the Superior Court  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: • Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. • If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. • Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. • If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 