 Case Number:  23STCV04548    Hearing Date:   November 27, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




tina vo

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
cristina marie dam

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV04548




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


November
   27, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
cross-defendants’ demurrer to amended
  cross-complaint
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:              Cross-defendants Cathy Kay and
Tina Vo     
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:    Cross-complainants Cristina Marie Dam and
Liberate Hollywood, Inc.
Demurrer to Amended Cross-Complaint
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this demurrer. 
DISCUSSION
Cross-defendants Tina Vo (“Vo”) and Cathy Kay (“Kay”) (collectively,
“Cross-Defendants”) move the court for an order sustaining their demurrer to
the sixth and seventh causes of action alleged by cross-complainants Cristina
Marie Dam (“Dam”) and Liberate Hollywood, Inc. (collectively,
“Cross-Complainants”) in their Amended Cross-Complaint. 
The court sustains cross-defendant Vo’s demurrer to the fifth cause of
action for intentional infliction of emotional distress because it does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against Vo since
cross-complainant Dam has not alleged facts establishing that Vo’s conduct was
so extreme as to exceed all bounds of decency in a civilized community, and
therefore has not alleged the element of extreme and outrageous conduct.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Berry
v. Frazier (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th 1258, 1273 [elements of intentional
infliction of emotional distress].)  The
court finds that Dam’s allegations that Vo coerced Dam to enter into the second,
illusory agreement (FACC ¶¶ 44-48) do not allege extreme and outrageous conduct.  The court also acknowledges that Dam has
alleged that Vo “continued to harass, threaten, and coerce Ms. Dam to continue
to make payments from her personal funds” (FACC ¶ 122) and that Vo “continued
her campaign of harassment and psychological abuse” until 2022, including by
appearing at Dam’s place of work to talk to employees about the financial
condition of the business (FACC ¶ 124). 
However, Dam did not allege facts establishing that Vo’s conduct rose to
the level of harassment or abuse, and the court finds that the allegations
regarding Vo’s alleged abuse and harassment are conclusory.  (Ibid.) 
The court sustains Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to the sixth cause of
action for negligent misrepresentation because it does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action since Cross-Complainants have not
alleged the elements of this cause of action with the requisite
particularity.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subd. (e); Foster v. Sexton (2021) 61 Cal.App.5th 998, 1028 [“For
policy reasons, some causes of action, such as fraud and negligent
misrepresentation, must be pleaded with particularity . . . .”].)  
For example, while Cross-Complainants have alleged that Vo
misrepresented to Dam “that the alleged loan was to be paid when the business
was able to make the payments” (FACC ¶ 135), Cross-Complainants did not allege
(1) that Vo made this representation without reasonable ground for believing it
to be true, (2) with the intent to induce Cross-Complainants’ reliance thereon,
and (3) that Cross-Complainants justifiably relied on the representation.[1]  (Borman v. Brown (2021) 59 Cal.App.5th
1048, 1060 [elements of negligent misrepresentation].)  Further, while the court notes that
Cross-Complainants have alleged that Vo coerced Dam into entering into the
second agreement, those facts appear to allege not that Vo made a
misrepresentation regarding the validity of the agreement to Dam, but rather,
that Vo demanded that Dam enter into the agreement.  (FACC ¶¶ 38, 42, 45, 133.)  The court also finds that Cross-Complainants
have not alleged any misrepresentations made, without reasonable ground for
believing them to be true, by cross-defendant Kay.  (Borman, supra, 59 Cal.App.5th
at p. 1060.)  Instead, the only
misrepresentation alleged in support of this cause of action is the
misrepresentation made by defendant Vo. 
(FACC ¶ 153.) 
The burden is on the plaintiff or the cross-complainant “to articulate
how it could amend its pleading to render it sufficient.”¿ (Palm Springs
Villas II Homeowners Assn., Inc. v. Parth (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 268,
290.)¿ To satisfy that burden, a plaintiff or cross-complainant “must show in
what manner he can amend his complaint and how that amendment will change the
legal effect of his pleading.”¿ (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d
335, 349.)  The court finds that Cross-Complainants have not met their
burden to articulate how they can amend their fifth and sixth causes of action
to render them sufficient against Vo and Cross-Defendants, respectively.  The court therefore sustains Cross-Defendants’
demurrer without leave to amend.
ORDER
            The court sustains cross-defendant
Tina Vo’s demurrer to cross-complainant Cristina Marie Dam’s fifth cause of
action for intentional infliction of emotional distress without leave to amend.
The court sustains cross-defendants Tina Vo and Cathy Kay’s demurrer
to cross-complainants Cristina Marie Dam and Liberate Hollywood, Inc.’s sixth
cause of action for negligent misrepresentation without leave to amend. 
The court orders cross-defendants Tina Vo and Cathy Kay to file an
answer to cross-complainants Cristina Marie Dam and Liberate Hollywood, Inc.’s
Amended Cross-Complaint within 10 days of the date of this order.
            The court orders cross-defendants
Tina Vo and Cathy Kay to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:  November 27, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


