  Case Number:  22STCV01211    Hearing Date:   November 27, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




k’lem fitzgerald banner

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
city of los angeles

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV01211




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


November
   27, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s motion for summary judgment or,
  in the alternative, summary adjudication
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant City of Los Angeles
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff K’lem Fitzgerald Banner
Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary
Adjudication
The court
considered the moving and opposition papers filed in connection with this
motion.  No reply papers were filed. 
LEGAL STANDARD
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” 
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,
1519.)  A defendant or cross-defendant
moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden
of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one
or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that
there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “Once the
defendant or cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff or cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi v. Centro
Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)  “When deciding whether to grant summary
judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers
(except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all
reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most
favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”  (Id. at
p. 467; Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
DISCUSSION
Defendant City of Los Angeles (“Defendant”)
moves the court for an order granting summary judgment in its favor and against
plaintiff K’lem Fitzgerald Banner (“Plaintiff”) on his First Amended Complaint
or, in the alternative, granting summary adjudication in favor of Defendant and
against Plaintiff on each cause of action. 

1.     First
Cause of Action for Discrimination
It is an unlawful employment practice “[f]or an employer, because
of the race . . . , national origin . . . , physical disability . . . , [or]
medical condition . . . of any person, . . . to bar or to discharge the person
from employment . . . or to discriminate against the person in compensation or
in the terms, conditions, or privileges of employment.”  (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (a); FAC ¶ 33
[alleging discrimination on the basis of Plaintiff’s race, ethnicity,
disability, medical condition, and/or his perceived disability or medical
condition].)  “To establish a prima facie
case of discrimination under FEHA, a plaintiff must show they were a member of
a protected class; they were qualified for the position or were performing
competently in the position they held; they suffered an adverse employment
action, such as termination, demotion, or denial of an available job; and some
other circumstance suggested discriminatory motive.”  (Khoiny v. Dignity Health (2022) 76
Cal.App.5th 390, 397.) 
The court finds that Defendant (1) has not met its burden to show
that the first cause of action for discrimination has no merit on the ground
that Plaintiff cannot establish the element of circumstances suggesting
discriminatory motive, and (2) has met its burden of showing that the first
cause of action for discrimination has no merit because Defendant has shown
that the adverse employment action (i.e., its termination of Plaintiff’s
employment) was based on legitimate, nondiscriminatory factors.  (Zamora v. Security Industry Specialists,
Inc. (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 1, 32 [“The ‘employer, as the moving party, has
the initial burden to present admissible evidence showing either that one or
more elements of plaintiff’s prima facie case is lacking or that the adverse
employment action was based upon legitimate, nondiscriminatory factors’”].) 
First, the court finds that Defendant has not met its burden to
show that Plaintiff cannot establish a prima facie case of discrimination on
the ground that he cannot establish the element of circumstances that suggest a
discriminatory motive. 
Defendant has asserted that Plaintiff cannot establish a prima
facie case of discrimination “as he can present no evidence that similarly
situated, non-Black employees received more favorable treatment.”  (Mot., p. 8:10-11.)  However, Defendant did not cite evidence in
support of this assertion.  Thus,
Defendant has not met its burden to show, with evidence, that Plaintiff cannot
establish a prima facie case of discrimination. 
(Martin v. Board of Trustees of California State University (2023)
97 Cal.App.5th 149, 160 [on summary judgment, “[t]he defendant must ‘present
evidence, and not simply point out that the plaintiff does not possess, and
cannot reasonable obtained, needed evidence’”] [internal citation omitted].) 
Second, the court finds that Defendant has met its burden to show
that its termination of Plaintiff was based on legitimate, nondiscriminatory
factors.
Defendant has submitted the declaration of Randall Goddard
(“Goddard”), in which Goddard states the following:  (1) Plaintiff was under Goddard’s control for
his Structured Field Training Program Period; (2) in various of Plaintiff’s
Probationary Police Officer Weekly Evaluation Reports (the “Evaluation
Reports”) for June 16, 2019 through August 10, 2019, Plaintiff received
substandard ratings in various areas; (3) the Employee Comment Sheet for the
period of December 26, 2018 through February 1, 2019 stated that Plaintiff
received 42/45 “needs improvement” evaluations from his peers, which included
their concerns that Plaintiff was forgetful, lacking in confidence, and needed
to learn how to effectively manage his stress; (4) the Employee Comment Sheet
for the period of February 4, 2019 through March 15, 2019 stated that Plaintiff
received a total of 39/45 “needs improvement” evaluations from his peers, which
included concerns that Plaintiff lacked critical thinking when put under stress
and was unable to make decisions in tactical situations, and comments that his
peers would not trust him to be their partner in the field and that they feared
for the safety of other officers; and (5) along with other unnamed individuals,
Goddard requested the termination of Plaintiff based on his failure to meet the
minimum standards of a Los Angeles Police Department police officer, which was
approved by Chief of Police Michel Moore on February 21, 2020.[1]  (Goddard Decl., ¶¶ 5, 19 [“I, and others,
requested termination of Plaintiff . . . .”]; Goddard Decl., Exs. D-K
[Evaluation Reports]; Goddard Decl., Ex. L [Dec. 26, 2018 – Feb. 1, 2019
Employee Comment Sheet]; Goddard Decl., Ex. N [Feb. 4, 2019 – March 15, 2019
Employee Comment Sheet].)  
The court finds that this evidence shows that Defendant terminated
Plaintiff for the legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason that Plaintiff was not satisfying
the standards required for a police officer with the Los Angeles Police
Department. 
The court finds that Plaintiff has met his burden to show that a
triable issue of material fact exists as to whether Defendant’s proffered
reason for terminating Plaintiff was pretext for discrimination.  (Zamora, supra, 71 Cal.App.5th
at p. 32.)
“Generally in cases involving affirmative adverse employment
actions, pretext may be demonstrated by showing the proffered reason had no
basis in fact, the proffered reason did not actually motivate the discharge, or
the proffered reason was insufficient to motivate discharge.”  (Soria v. Univision Radio Los Angeles,
Inc. (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 570, 594 [internal quotation marks and citations
omitted].)  “Pretext may also be inferred
from the timing of the company’s termination decision, by the identity of the
person making the decision, and by the terminated employee’s job performance
before the termination.”  (Ibid.
[internal quotation marks and citation omitted].) 
The court finds that Plaintiff has presented analysis of
Defendant’s evidence showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to
Plaintiff’s job performance before his termination and, as such, whether the
proffered reason for his termination (i.e., that his performance was unsatisfactory)
was sufficient to motivate his discharge.  (Soria, supra, 5 Cal.App.5th at
p. 594 [pretext may be inferred by demonstrating that the proffered reason was
insufficient to motivate the discharge and the employee’s job performance
before termination].)  Specifically, Plaintiff
has argued that his Evaluation Reports stated that his performance was
satisfactory, save for the report completed for the period of July 14, 2019 to
July 20, 2019.  
As noted by Plaintiff, Plaintiff’s overall weekly performance was
designated “Satisfactory” for the Evaluation Reports for the periods of June
16, 2019 to June 22, 2019, June 23, 2019 to June 29, 2019, June 30, 2019 to
July 6, 2019, July 7, 2019 to July 13, 2019, July 21, 2019 to July 27, 2019,
July 29, 2019 to August 3, 2019, and August 4, 2019 to August 10, 2019.[2]  (Goddard Decl., Ex. D, p. 1; Goddard Decl., Ex.
E, p. 1; Goddard Decl., Ex. F, p. 1; Goddard Decl., Ex. G, p. 1; Goddard Decl.,
Ex. I, p. 1; Goddard Decl., Ex. J, p. 1; Goddard Decl., Ex. K, p. 1.)  Thus, although Plaintiff had various “below
standard” ratings in various areas, all but one of the Evaluation Reports
stated that Plaintiff’s performance was satisfactory. 
Defendant has, as set forth above, submitted the Evaluation
Reports completed for Plaintiff for the period of time between June 16, 2019
through August 10, 2019, in which the Field Training Officers stated that
Plaintiff’s knowledge and performance in certain areas was “below
standard.”  However, the court has noted,
in reviewing the Evaluation Reports submitted in connection with this motion,
that the Evaluation Reports also stated that Plaintiff’s performance in various
other areas, including those relating to his general appearance, attitude, and
his relationships with citizens in general, with ethnic groups or genders other
than his own, and other officers and employees, was “Standard,” which is
defined to mean behavior that “demonstrates an adequate ability to accomplish
required tasks.”  (Goddard Decl., Ex. D,
p. 1 [June 16, 2019 – June 22, 2019 Evaluation Report listing as “Standard”
Plaintiff’s general appearance, attitude, knowledge of policies and procedures,
law regarding search and seizure, and verbal and field performance tests, as
well as Plaintiff’s performance with the radio and relationships]; Goddard
Decl., Ex. E, p. 1 [June 23, 2019 – June 29, 2019 Evaluation Report listing as
“Standard” Plaintiff’s knowledge of policies and procedures, law regarding
search and seizure, and the Vehicle Code, as well as Plaintiff’s self-initiated
field activities and relationships]; Goddard Decl., Ex. F, p. 1 [June 30, 2019
– July 6, 2019 Evaluation Report listing as “Standard” Plaintiff’s general
appearance, attitude, and relationships]; Goddard Decl., Ex. G, p. 1 [July 7,
2019 – July 13, 2019 Evaluation Report, listing as “Standard” Plaintiff’s
general appearance, attitude, organization and skill as to report writing, and
relationships]; Goddard Decl., Ex. H, p. 1 [July 14, 2019 – July 20, 2019
Evaluation Report, listing as “Standard” Plaintiff’s general appearance,
attitude, knowledge of the law regarding search and seizure and the Vehicle
Code, officer safety as to suspects/prisoners, control of conflict as to
physical skill, and his relationships]; Goddard Decl., Ex. I, p. 1 [July 21,
2019 – July 27, 2019 Evaluation Report listing as “Standard” Plaintiff’s
general appearance, attitude, results of verbal tests and field performance
tests, officer safety (both generally and as to suspects/prisoners), control of
conflict (as to both voice command and physical skill), and his relationships];
Goddard Decl., Ex. J, p. 1 [July 28, 2019 – August 3, 2019 Evaluation Report,
listing as “Standard” Plaintiff’s general appearance, attitude, knowledge of
search and seizure law, officer safety (both general and as to
suspects/prisoners), control of conflict (as to void command), use of common
sense and good judgment, appropriate use of communications codes, and
relationships]; Goddard Decl., Ex. K [August 4, 2019 – August 10, 2019
Evaluation Report, listing as “Standard” Plaintiff’s general appearance,
attitude, knowledge of the Vehicle Code and results of the verbal and field
performance tests, report writing (as to grammar and spelling and time used),
officer safety (as to suspects/prisoners), control of conflict (as to physical
skill), use of common sense and good judgment, and relationships].)  The court also notes that Defendant did not
present, in support of its moving papers, evidence explaining why the substandard
ratings of Plaintiff’s knowledge and performance, when taken in consideration
with the standard ratings of Plaintiff’s knowledge and performance, were
sufficient to justify Plaintiff’s termination. 

Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff has met his burden to show
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to whether Defendant’s
proffered reason for terminating Plaintiff was pretext for discrimination since
Plaintiff has presented analysis of the evidence submitted by Defendant
regarding the adequacy of his work performance. 
The court therefore denies Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the first cause of action for discrimination.
2.     Second
Cause of Action for Harassment
It is an unlawful employment practice for an employer, because of race,
national origin, physical disability, or medical condition, “to harass an
employee . . . .”  (Gov. Code, § 12940,
subd. (j)(1); FAC ¶ 42 [alleging harassment based on Plaintiff’s race,
ethnicity, perceived and/or actual disability, and perceived and/or actual
medical condition].)  “To establish a
prima facie case of unlawful harassment under FEHA, a plaintiff must show ‘(1)
he was a member of a protected class; (2) he was subjected to unwelcome . . .
harassment; (3) the harassment was based on [the plaintiff’s membership in an
enumerated class; (4) the harassment unreasonably interfered with his work
performance by creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work
environment; and (5) [the defendant] is liable for the harassment.’”  (Martin, supra, 97 Cal.App.5th
at p. 170.) 
The court finds that Defendant has not met its burden of showing
that the second cause of action for harassment has no merit because Defendant
has not shown that the elements of this cause of action cannot be
established.  
First, Defendant did not address the second cause of action for
harassment in its memorandum of points and authorities, and therefore did not
present sufficient argument, analysis, and evidence to show that Plaintiff
cannot establish the elements of this cause of action. 
Second, Defendant did not (1) separately address the second cause
of action for harassment in its separate statement as required, and (2) set
forth evidence in the separate statement to show that Plaintiff cannot
establish any element of this cause of action. 
(Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 3.1350, subd. (b) [“If summary adjudication is
sought, whether separately or as an alternative to the motion for summary
judgment, the specific cause of action . . . must be stated specifically
in the notice of motion and be repeated, verbatim, in the separate
statement”].) 
Third, the court notes that, in its notice of motion, Defendant has
asserted that this cause of action has no merit “because the conduct alleged
does not rise to the level of actionable harassment under FEHA” because
“[p]ersonnel management decisions such as hiring and firing, job or station
assignments, promotions or demotions, performance evaluations, and the provisions
of support are not within the meaning of harassment.”  (Notice of Mot., pp. 1:27-2:3.)  The court agrees that such management
decisions do not fall within the meaning of harassment, which consists of
actions outside the scope of job duties that are not necessary to business and
personnel management.  (Serri v. Santa
Clara University (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 830, 869-870.)  But (1) Plaintiff’s harassment cause of
action is not based on personnel management decisions of Defendant, but rather that
Defendant created and allowed a hostile work environment based on, inter
alia, the allegations that Plaintiff’s accent was mocked (FAC ¶ 16), that
officers stated that Plaintiff “could not be from ‘the hood’ because he spoke
proper English” (FAC ¶ 16), and that he was nicknamed “hurt knee” and was told
that he should be fired for injuring himself while still on probation (FAC ¶
19), and (2) as set forth above, Defendant did not address this cause of action
in its moving papers, such that Defendant has not presented adequate analysis,
argument, and authority establishing that the conduct does not constitute
harassment.  
The court therefore denies Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the second cause of action for harassment.
 
3.     Third
Cause of Action for Retaliation
It is an unlawful employment practice for an employer “to discharge,
expel, or otherwise discriminate against any person because the person has
opposed any practices forbidden under this part . . . .”  (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (h); FAC ¶¶ 48
[alleging that Plaintiff was retaliated against for his opposition to
prohibited employment practices and for attempting to secure his rights under
FEHA], 52 [alleging that Plaintiff engaged in protected activity when he
complained to his supervisors that Defendant’s conduct violated his work
restrictions, and that Defendant thereafter began to retaliate against
him].)  “‘[T]o establish a prima facie
case of retaliation under the FEHA, a plaintiff must show (1) he or she engaged
in a “protected activity,” (2) the employer subjected the employee to an
adverse employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between the protected
activity and the employer’s action.’”  (Meeks
v. Autozone, Inc. (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 855, 878-879.) 
The court finds that Defendant has met its burden of showing that
the third cause of action for retaliation has no merit because Defendant has shown
that its termination of Plaintiff was based on legitimate, nonretaliatory
factors (i.e., that Plaintiff was not satisfying the standards required for a
police officer with the Los Angeles Police Department) for the same reasons as set
forth in connection with the court’s discussion on the first cause of action
for discrimination.  (Wilkin v.
Community Hospital of the Monterey Peninsula (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 806, 828
[“Where the employer presents admissible evidence either that one or more of
[the employee’s] prima facie elements is lacking, or that the adverse
employment action was based on legitimate, nondiscriminatory [or
nonretaliatory] factors, the employer will be entitled to summary judgment
unless the [employee] produces admissible evidence which raises a triable issue
of fact material to the [employer’s] showing”] [internal quotation marks and
citation omitted]; (Goddard Decl., ¶¶ 5, 19; Goddard Decl., Exs. D-K
[Evaluation Reports]; Goddard Decl., Ex. L [Dec. 26, 2018 – Feb. 1, 2019
Employee Comment Sheet]; Goddard Decl., Ex. N [Feb. 4, 2019 – March 15, 2019
Employee Comment Sheet].)  
The court finds that Plaintiff has met his burden to show that a
triable issue of material fact exists as to whether Defendant’s proffered
reason for terminating Plaintiff was pretext for retaliation because (1) as set
forth above, Plaintiff has presented analysis of Defendant’s evidence to show
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to Plaintiff’s job performance
before his termination, such that he has shown that a triable issue of material
fact exists as to whether the proffered reason for terminating Plaintiff (i.e.,
his unsatisfactory performance) was sufficient to motivate his discharge, and
(2) Plaintiff has submitted evidence showing temporal proximity between (i) Plaintiff’s
providing his work restrictions to Defendant on January 23, 2020, and his
requests for an accommodation on February 10 and 12, 2020 (which were denied on
February 13, 2020), and (ii) Defendant’s request for termination of Plaintiff
on February 13, 2020.  (Banner Decl., ¶¶
20 [Plaintiff provided his doctor’s notes with updated restrictions on January
23, 2020], 21 [on February 10, 2020, Plaintiff “contacted Sgt. Ransom to see if
there was any work [he] could do for the LAPD because [he] was having surgery
on his knee in two weeks[,] and on February 12, 2020, Plaintiff contacted Sgt.
Walker], 23, 25; Goddard Decl., Exs. D-K; Goddard Decl., ¶ 19; Soria, supra,
5 Cal.App.5th at p. 594 [pretext may be demonstrated by showing that the
proffered reason was insufficient to motivate discharge, the employee’s job
performance before termination, and the timing of the termination decision].) 
The court therefore denies Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the third cause of action for retaliation.
4.     Fourth
Cause of Action for Failure to Accommodate
It is an unlawful employment practice “[f]or an employer . . . to
fail to make reasonable accommodation for the known physical or mental
disability of an applicant or employee.”  (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd.
(m)(1).)  “‘The essential elements of a failure to accommodate claim are:
(1) the plaintiff has a disability covered by the FEHA; (2) the plaintiff is a
qualified individual (i.e., he or she can perform the essential functions of
the position); and (3) the employer failed to reasonably accommodate the
plaintiff’s disability.  [Citation.]’”  (Cuiellette v. City of Los
Angeles (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 757, 766 [internal citation
omitted].)  
The court finds that Defendant has not met its burden of showing
that the fourth cause of action for failure to accommodate has no merit because
Defendant has not shown that the element of Defendant’s failure to accommodate
Plaintiff’s disability cannot be established. 

Defendant contends that Plaintiff’s doctor’s note specified that
his work restrictions were for semi-sedentary work, and that Defendant
accommodated those restrictions.  (Mot.,
p. 10:22-25.)  However, Defendant did not
cite or present any evidence in support of that assertion.  Defendant did not submit, for example, the
doctor’s note(s) submitted to it by Plaintiff, or documentation establishing
that it accommodated the restrictions described therein.  Moreover, Defendant did not (1) separately
address this cause of action in its separate statement as required, or (2)
state any material facts regarding the accommodations that it provided
Plaintiff therein.  (Cal. Rules of Ct.,
rule 3.1350, subd. (b).) 
The court therefore denies Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the fourth cause of action for failure to accommodate.
5.     Fifth
Cause of Action for Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process
It is an unlawful employment practice “[f]or an employer . . . to
fail to engage in a timely, good faith, interactive process with the employee
or applicant to determine effective reasonable accommodations, if any, in
response to a request for reasonable accommodation by an employee or applicant
with a known physical or mental disability or known medical condition.” 
(Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (n).)  “‘The employee must initiate the process
unless his or her disability and the resulting limitations are obvious. 
Once initiated, the employer has a continuous obligation to engage in
the interactive process in good faith.’”  (Kaur v. Foster Poultry Farms
LLC (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 320, 347 [emphasis in original].)  
The court finds that Defendant has not met its burden of showing
that the fifth cause of action for failure to engage in the interactive process
has no merit because Defendant has not shown that the element of Defendant’s
failure to engage in the interactive process cannot be established.  Defendant did not (1) present any argument
setting forth the acts it took to engage in the interactive process in good
faith, instead stating, in conclusory fashion, that it accommodated Plaintiff,
which (i) is unsupported by evidence and (ii) does not show, as a matter of
law, that Defendant engaged in the interactive process in good faith with
Plaintiff; (2) cite any evidence in its memorandum of points and authorities to
show that it engaged in the interactive process with Plaintiff; (3) separately
address this cause of action in its separate statement as required; and (4)
cite any material facts regarding this cause of action in its separate
statement.  (Mot., pp. 10:3-24; Def. Sep.
Statement; Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 3.1350, subd. (b).) 
The court therefore denies Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the fifth cause of action for failure to engage in the
interactive process.
ORDER
            The court denies defendant City of
Los Angeles’s motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary
adjudication.
The court orders plaintiff K’lem Fitzgerald Banner to give notice of
this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  November 27, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


