 Case Number:  BC659059    Hearing Date:   February 8, 2024    Dept:  T Doe v LAUSD BC659059
Tentative rulings on Motions in Limine:
All motions in limine, when granted, apply with equal force
to all parties, counsel, and witnesses.  Counsel are responsible to counsel
and assure that their clients and witnesses are aware of the rulings on
the motions in limine and they are also aware of the consequences of civil or criminal
penalties for violation of court orders.
Plaintiff’s motions:
1.     
Grant
2.     
Grant
3.     
Grant
4.     
Grant
Defendant’s motions:
1.           It
depends, cannot be decided in a vacuum, specific instances need to be
identified
2.           Grant
3.           The court will hear argument as to
relevance and 352
4.           Deny
5.           It
depends, cannot be decided in a vacuum, specific instances need to be
identified
6.           Grant as
to subsequent events, deny as to prior events.
7.           Deny
8.           For the
police report, it depends on what portion and for what use.  For the video, grant.
9.           Grant 
10.        Deny
11.        Grant
12.        Deny
13.        Deny
14.        Grant because the purpose of the case is
to seek compensation and not to change school policies and procedures.  Jurors cannot be told to decide based on the “conscience
of the community” as it may conflict with the applicable law or may implicitly
ask the jurors to disregard the law.  “Conscience
of the community” is not defined and may lead to speculation as to its meaning.
15.        Grant only as to exhibits to which there
has been a stipulation to receive in evidence, otherwise denied.  If both side stipulate to their oppositions’
power point, then the court will allow. 
16.        Grant only as to exhibits to which there
has been a stipulation to receive in evidence, otherwise denied.
17.        The court queries whether the
determination of negligence in this case is based upon statutes or the jury’s
own interpretation of what constitutes negligence.  The court will discuss. Also, see no. 14.
18.        Grant
19.        Moot, Garcia
has been dismissed
20.        The court will hear argument but would
like to know what policy or rule it violated if the student was 18 and
consenting and what would have been the consequences?          
              
              