 Case Number:  24VECV03103    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2024    Dept:  W WILLIAM
FIKHMAN v. auction brothers, inc., et al.
 
Demurrer with motion to strike
 
Date of Hearing:          December 19, 2024                            Trial Date:       None
set. 
Department:               W                                                         Case
No.:         24VECV03103
 
Moving
Party:             Defendant Auction
Brother, Inc.
Responding
Party:       Plaintiff William Fikhman
 
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises from the alleged wrongful termination of
Plaintiff William Fikhman’s employment with Defendant Auction Brothers, Inc.
(Auction Brothers). 
 
On June 28, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint against
Auction Brothers, alleging causes of action for (1) Retaliation, (2) Wrongful
Discharge in Violation of Public Policy, (3) Unfair Competition and (4) Waiting
Time Penalties. 
 
On October 1, 2024, Auction Brothers filed the instant
demurrer to Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action for Waiting Time Penalties, as
well as a motion to strike with respect to Plaintiff’s request for punitive
damages.
 
On December 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed a notice of
non-opposition to the instant demurrer and motion to strike. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
1.     
Auction Brothers’ demurrer is SUSTAINED
with leave to amend. 
2.     
Auction Brothers’ motion to strike is
GRANTED. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
1.      Demurrer 
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the
grounds for which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a
matter of which the court may take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30,
subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The
purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading “by raising
questions of law.” (Postley v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.)
“In the construction of a pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect,
its allegations must be liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice
between the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “‘treat[s] the
demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law . . ..’” (Berkley v. Dowds
(2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.)  
 
When
a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a
reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to
show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.; Lewis
v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.)
 
2.      Motion
to Strike 
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a
pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike a pleading or any part
thereof.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).)¿ The court¿may, upon a
motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper,
strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).)¿ The court may also strike all or any part
of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with California law, a court rule,
or an order of the court.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).)¿ An immaterial
or irrelevant allegation is one that is not essential to the statement of a
claim or defense; is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise
sufficient claim or defense; or a demand for judgment requesting relief not
supported by the allegations of the complaint.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., 431.10, subd.
(b).)¿ The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading
or by way of judicial notice.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)¿¿¿
 
Meet and Confer  
 
Before filing a demurrer or motion to strike,
the moving party is required to meet and confer in person or by telephone with
the party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to
the motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can
be reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer or motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 430.41; 435.5.)  
 
Here, counsel for Auction Brothers sent
Plaintiff a meet and confer correspondence addressing the purported
deficiencies with Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action. (Matthews Decl., ¶ 3,
Exhibit A.) However, counsel for Auction Brothers has not declared that he met
and conferred with Plaintiff’s counsel in person or via telephone. The Court
does not find merely sending an email sufficient to satisfy the meet and confer
requirement. The Court admonishes counsel for not properly meeting and
conferring to informally resolve the objections raised in the instant demurrer
and motion to strike. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Auction
Brothers demurs to the fourth cause of action for Waiting Time Penalties of
Plaintiff’s complaint on two bases: (1) the complaint fails sufficiently
alleged that Plaintiff was entitled to paid time off pursuant to California
Labor Code §§ 201-203, despite being an exempt employee, and (2) the complaint
fails to plead the amount of wages accrued and unpaid, and the rate of
compensation. (Oppenheimer v. Robinson (1957) 150 Cal.App.4th 1378, 1384.)
 
Auction
Brothers also moves to strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive damage.
Specifically, Auction Brothers moves to strike both Paragraph 35 and Paragraph
49 and their mention of the purported “egregious nature” of Auction Brothers’
alleged conduct and the coinciding request for punitive damages. (Compl., ¶¶
35, 49.) 
 
Here,
Plaintiff has filed a notice of non-opposition to Auction Brothers’ motion to
strike Plaintiff’s references to, and requests for, punitive damages, and
Auction Brothers’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action for Waiting
Time Penalties. Plaintiff, in his notice of non-opposition, stated that he will
file an amended complaint by December 27, 2024. Thus, the Court will not
address the arguments contained in the instant demurrer and motion to strike. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the
foregoing reasons, Auction Brothers’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s fourth cause of
action in the complaint for Waiting Time Penalties is sustained with 20 days
leave to amend. Auction Brothers’ motion to strike is granted without leave to
amend.  
 