 Case Number:  22VECV01849    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2024    Dept:  W Sonja Domazet,
et al. v. west hills hospital & medical Center, et al.
 
leave to amend Complaint
 
Date of Hearing:          December 19, 2024                            Trial Date:       None
set. 
Department:               W                                                         Case
No.:         22VECV01849
 
Moving
Parties:           Plaintiffs Sonja
Domazet and Elijah Stiny, individually, and Leonardo Stiny, by and through his
Guardian Ad Litem Sonja Domazet
Responding
Parties:    Defendants West Hills Hospital
& Medical Center; Imelda Tio, M.D.; Imelda Tio, M.D., APC; Lauren Hyman,
M.d.; Lauren Hyman, M.D., APC; The Partnership For Women’s Health; Bahman Mehdizadeh,
M.D.; And Pediatrix Medical Group of California, APC.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This case
arises from the delivery of twins, one of whom died soon after delivery and the
other of whom, Plaintiff Leonardo Stiny, developed serious complications.
(Compl., ¶ 20.) Plaintiff Leonardo Stiny (Leonardo) was born with a high blood
count (polycythemia) due to Twin-to-Twin Transfusion Syndrome (TTTS), or the
transfer of blood from one twin to another while in utero. According to the
complaint, all named defendants fell below the standard of care in their
“misdiagnosis and lack of adequate assessment and treatment of Plaintiff
Leonardo Stiny’s condition in utero, delay in performing a proper emergency
cesarean section surgery to deliver Plaintiff Leonardo Stiny in sufficient time
to avoid injury, actions and omissions during the course of delivery, and acts,
omissions and delay in assessment and specialized treatment of Plaintiff
Leonardo Stiny after delivery.” (Id. ¶ 21.) 
 
On November
2, 2022, Plaintiffs Sonja Domazet and Elijah Stiny, individually, and Leonardo
Stiny, by and through his Guardian Ad Litem Sonja Domazet (collectively
Plaintiffs) filed a complaint against Defendants West Hills Hospital &
Medical Center; Imelda Tio, M.D.; Imelda Tio, M.D., APC; Lauren Hyman, M.d.;
Lauren Hyman, M.D., APC; The Partnership For Women’s Health; Bahman Mehdizadeh,
M.D.; And Pediatrix Medical Group of California, APC (collectively Defendants).
The complaint alleged causes of action for (1) professional negligence, (2)
negligent infliction of emotional distress, and (3) intentional infliction of
emotional distress.
 
On October
24, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the instant  motion to amend the complaint to add a claim
for punitive damages as to all Defendants. 
 
On November
20, 2024, Defendants Bahman Mehdizadeh M.D. and Pedatrix Medical Group of
California, APC filed an opposition.
 
On December
5, 2024, Defendants Imelda Tio, M.D., Imelda Tio, M.D. APC, Lauren Hyman M.D.,
Lauren Hyman, M.D. APC, and the Partnership for Women’s Health filed an
opposition. 
 
On December
6, 2024, Defendant West Hills Hospital and Medical Center filed an opposition. 
 
On December
12, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a reply. 
 
[Tentative]
Ruling
 
1.     
Plaintiffs’
motion for leave to amend their complaint is DENIED. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
Leave to amend is
permitted under Code of Civil Procedure § 473(a) and § 576.  The policy favoring
amendment and resolving all matters in the same dispute is “so strong that it
is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be justified. 
[Citation.]”  (Howard v. County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th
1422.)  Notwithstanding the “policy of great liberality in permitting
amendments to the complaint at any stage of the proceedings, up to and
including trial [citations], this policy should be applied only ‘where no
prejudice is shown to the adverse party . . . .’ [citation].  A different
result is indicated ‘where inexcusable delay and probable prejudice to the
opposing party’ is shown. [Citation].”  (Magpali v. Farmers Group (1996)
48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.) 
 
A motion for leave to
amend a pleading must also comply with the procedural requirements of
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, which requires a supporting declaration
to set forth explicitly what allegations are to be added and where, and
explicitly stating what new evidence was discovered warranting the amendment
and why the amendment was not made earlier. The motion must also include (1) a
copy of the proposed and numbered amendment, (2) specifications by reference to
pages and lines the allegations that would be deleted and added, and (3) a
declaration specifying the effect, necessity and propriety of the amendments,
date of discovery and reasons for delay.  (See Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1324(a), (b).) 
 
Evidentiary
Objections
 
Defendant
West Hills Hospital and Medical Center filed evidentiary objections to the
entirety of the deposition testimonies of Plaintiffs Sonja Domazet and Elijah
Stiny on the following bases: Lacks foundation; speculative; conclusory;
hearsay; insufficient to qualify as expert testimony or declaration sufficient
to render any criticisms or opinions on medical or nursing standard of care or
causation issues. 
 
Both of
Defendant West Hills Hospital and Medical Center’s objections are overruled. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Here,
Plaintiffs are seeking to amend their complaint to assert new language
supporting a claim for punitive damages as well as a prayer for punitive
damages against all named Defendants.
 
Timeliness 
 
Leave of Court to plead punitive damages must be
obtained by Motion filed within two years after the initial pleading was filed
or nine months before the date first set for trial, whichever is earlier. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 425.13.)
 
Here, Plaintiffs filed the instant motion on
October 24, 2024, and the complaint was filed on November 2, 2022. Because the
instant motion was filed within two years of the filing of the complaint and a
date for trial has not been set yet, the instant motion is timely.
 
Defendants
Imelda Tio, M.D., Imelda Tio, M.D. APC, Lauren Hyman M.D., Lauren Hyman, M.D.
APC, and the Partnership for Women’s Health in their opposition argue that the
instant motion is untimely given the that the that the related case BC691696
was filed on January 31, 2018, approaching the seventh year of litigation.
Defendants Imelda Tio, M.D., Imelda Tio, M.D. APC, Lauren Hyman M.D., Lauren
Hyman, M.D. APC, and the Partnership for Women’s Health argue that because the
two related cases re presently consolidated for discovery purposes, “there is a
high possibility that they will be consolidated for trial purposes as well.”
They contend that the present trial in the related case is currently set for
April 21, 2025, which makes the instant motion untimely as it was filed after
the ninth-month deadline in Code of Civil Procedure Section 425.13. 
 
However, as
of the date of the hearing of the instant motion, the present case and the
related case have not been consolidated for trial purposes. Because trial has
not been set for the present case, and the instant motion was filed within two
years of the filing of the complaint, the instant motion is technically timely
under Code of Civil Procedure Section 425.13.
 
Even though
timely, however, the instant motion fails on its merits.
 
 
Punitive
Damages 
 
Code of Civil
Procedure Section 425.13(a) provides "[t]he court may allow the filing of
an amended pleading claiming punitive damages on a motion by the party seeking
the amended pleading and on the basis of the supporting and opposing affidavits
presented that the plaintiff has established that there is a substantial
probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim pursuant to Section
3294 of the Civil Code." Civil Code Section 3294(a) in turn provides that
'[i]n an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract,
where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been
guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the
actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of
punishing the defendant." 
 
“[A]bsent
a statutory prohibition, punitive damages may be awarded on what is
traditionally considered a negligence cause of action if the conduct amounts to
despicable conduct carried on with conscious disregard of the safety of others. (Bommareddy v. Superior Ct. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1017,
1021.) 
 
“The
party seeking punitive damages must demonstrate the existence of sufficient
evidence to establish a prima facie case for punitive damages in accordance
with Civil Code section 3294 's higher standard of proof by clear and
convincing evidence." (Little Co. of Mary Hospital v. Superior Court
(2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 261, 267.) Section
425.13 “operates like a demurrer or motion for summary judgment
in “reverse.” Rather than requiring the defendant to defeat the plaintiff's pleading by
showing it is legally or factually meritless, the motion requires the plaintiff to demonstrate that he
possesses a legally sufficient claim which is “substantiated,” that is,
supported by competent, admissible evidence.” (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court¿(1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 719.)
 
A plaintiff must make a sufficient prima facie
showing of facts to sustain the punitive damage claim,¿taking into account¿the
higher “clear and convincing” standard of proof required for such claims under
Code of Civil Procedure section 3294.¿¿(Looney v. Superior Court¿(1993)¿16
Cal.App.4th 521, 538–540.)¿¿The Court may not assess credibility or weigh
conflicting evidence.¿¿(Id. at p. 539.)  The Court must not reject
a well-pled and factually supported punitive damages claim simply because the
Court believes the evidence is not strong enough for probable success before a
jury.¿¿(College Hospital, supra, 8 Cal.4th at p. 709; see also¿Pomona
Valley Hospital Medical Center v. Superior Court¿(2013)¿213 Cal.App.4th
828, 837 [“Section¿425.13(a) does not contemplate a minitrial in which witness
testimony is introduced—like a motion for summary judgment, is decided entirely
on an ‘affidavit’ showing.”].)  The Court will deny the Motion only when
the facts asserted in the proposed amended Complaint are legally insufficient
to support a punitive damages claim or when the evidence provided in the
supporting and opposing declarations either negates or fails to reveal the
actual existence of a triable claim.  (Ibid.)¿¿ 
 
Here, Plaintiffs argue that an amendment to the
complaint to add a claim for punitive damages is appropriate because “the conduct of Defendants Dr. Hyman,
Dr. Tio, Dr. Mehdizadeh, and West Hills Hospital falls squarely within the
standard for punitive damages under Civil Code §3294(c)(1)” and “the facts
demonstrate despicable conduct carried out with a willful disregard for the
Plaintiff’s safety and wellbeing.” (Motion, page 8.) 
 
Defendants collectively
argue that Plaintiff’s instant motion for leave to amend to add a claim for
punitive damages fails, as the evidence proffered by Plaintiffs does not
constitute “competent, admissible evidence” as Plaintiffs have not provided
expert medical testimony to support their motion to add a claim for punitive damages. The Court agrees. 
 
“[I]n
light of the ‘affidavit’ requirement and by analogy to summary judgment practice,
substantiation of a proposed punitive damages claim occurs only where the
factual recitals are made under penalty of perjury and set forth competent
admissible evidence within the personal knowledge of the declarant.” (College Hospital, supra, 8 Cal.4th at pp. 719-20.) “Where
a medical process or procedure is not a matter of common knowledge, expert
testimony is necessary to determine whether a probability of negligence appears
from the happening of an accident or untoward result. [Citation.]” (Folk v. Kilk (1975) 53 Cal.App.3d 176,
185.) “The standard of skill, knowledge and care prevailing in a
medical community is ordinarily a matter within the knowledge of experts.
[Citation.]” (Ibid.) “However,
when the witness is a layperson, he or she may not testify on matters which are
not proper subjects of lay opinion testimony.” (Jambazian v. Borden (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 836, 848–49.) 
 
The evidentiary burden is on Plaintiffs to come forth with
competent, admissible evidence and Plaintiffs have not even provided expert
testimony or any other competent and admissible affidavit or declaration from a
qualified medical or nursing expert establishing any breach of standard of care
in the treatment of Leonardo. (See Kelley v. Trunk
(1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 519, 523 [Expert testimony is required to “prove or
disprove that the defendant performed in accordance with the standard of
care”].) Because Plaintiffs have not come forth with competent, admissible evidence to establish a breach
of the standard of care, Plaintiffs necessarily have not proffered competent,
admissible evidence regarding the higher standard for the imposition of punitive
damages, specifically whether Defendants acted “with the intent
to vex, injure, or annoy, or with a conscious disregard of the plaintiff's rights. [Citations.]” (Taylor v.
Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 895.) 
 
The
deposition testimony of Plaintiffs Sonja Domazet and Elijah Stiny, as laypersons, cannot be used
to satisfy their high burden in showing a substantial probability of prevailing
on a punitive damages prayer by clear and convincing evidence. (Pomona
Valley Hosp. Med. Ctr. v. Superior Ct. (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 828, 838
[Plaintiffs’ deposition testimony “is
not based on any personal knowledge of conduct by the hospital regarding
plaintiff, so it necessarily does not amount to clear and convincing proof of
the elements of malice.”].) While Plaintiffs are correct that the “[t]he
trial court is not required to make any factual determination or to become
involved in any weighing process beyond that necessarily involved in deciding
whether a prima facie case for punitive damages exists,” Plaintiffs have failed
to provide the Court with any admissible evidence to support their evidentiary
burden in showing a claim for punitive damages under the clear and convincing
standard. (Looney v. Superior Court (1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 521, 539.)
 
Furthermore,
as stated above, “section 425.13(a) does not contemplate a
mini-trial in which witness testimony is introduced. As we have seen, a section 425.13(a)
motion, like a motion for summary judgment, is decided entirely on an
‘affidavit’ showing.” (College
Hospital, supra, 8 Cal.4th at p. 717.) Plaintiffs provided the
deposition testimony of Plaintiffs Sonja Domazet, Elijah Stiny, and some Defendants, rather than
admissible affidavits or declarations. Plaintiffs’
contention that “a jury reasonably can conclude that Defendants engaged in
wrongful conduct with a willful conscious disregard of their rights and safety
based on the evidence Plaintiffs have presented” is also not appropriate at
this stage. (Reply, page 5; College Hospital,
supra, 8 Cal.4th at p. 715 [“The ‘affidavit’ format described by the [425.13]
statute is a truncated one, reminiscent of summary judgment procedure. It is
not well suited to predicting how the jury would react to a full-blown case at
trial.”].)
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the
foregoing reasons, Plaintiffs’ motion for leave to amend the complaint to add
language relating to a claim for punitive damages as well as a prayer for
punitive damages is DENIED. 
 