  Case Number:  23VECV05508    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  W ERIN WEILER vs
VOLKSWAGEN GROUP OF AMERICA, INC.
 
plaintiff’s motion to compel defendant volkswagen
group of AMERICA inc. further responses to requests for production of
documents, set two 
 
Date
of Hearing:        November
21, 2024                                       Trial Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                                                     Case
No.:        23VECV05508
 
Moving
Party:            Plaintiff Erin Weiler 
Responding
Party:     Defendant Volkswagen Group of
America, Inc.    
Meet
and Confer:      Yes. (Alemi Decl. ¶7.)[1]

 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a lemon law action. On December 12, 2023, Plaintiff Erin
Weiler filed a complaint against Defendant Volkswagen Group of America, Inc.
for 1. Breach of Express Warranty – Violation of Song-Beverly Act; 2. Breach of
Implied Warranty – Violation of Song-Beverly Act; 3. Violation of The Song-
Beverly Act Section 1793.2; and 4. Violation of the Song- Beverly Act Section
1793.22 – Tanner Consumer Protection Act. Plaintiff purchased a 2021 Audi Q3.
Plaintiff alleges the subject vehicle was delivered with serious defects and
nonconformities to warranty including, but not limited to engine, trunk lid,
side mirrors, electrical, multiple recalls re software, seatbelts, and more.
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Defendant Volkswagen Group of America
Inc.’s Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set Two is GRANTED.

 
discussion
 
Plaintiff Erin Weiler
moves this court for an order compelling Defendant Volkswagen Group of America,
Inc. to provide verified, further responses to Plaintiff’s second set of
Requests for Production of Documents (“RFP 2”) within ten days of the hearing
on this motion. Plaintiff makes the motion on the grounds Defendant, without
justification, has served boilerplate objections and stated it would produce
the requested documents if in its possession yet has failed to do so despite multiple
attempts to meet and confer in an effort to avoid court intervention. Plaintiff
also seeks $3,435.00 in monetary sanctions against Defendant. 
 
Plaintiff argues despite
Defendant agreeing to produce the documents and multiple meet and confer
efforts between the parties, no documents have been produced to date. 
In opposition, Defendant argues their responses
to RFP Nos. 29-39, are complete and code compliant. Specifically, Defendant has
already produced approximately 333 pages of documents in response to
Plaintiff’s RFP, Set One and has agreed to produce additional responsive
documents relevant to the issues and facts of this litigation (e.g. Response to
RFP No. 29 – “Subject to and without waiving the foregoing objections, all
responsive documents in the demanded category that are in VWGoA's possession,
custody, or control and to which no objection has been made will be included in
the coming production.”). Defendant goes on to argue that Plaintiff seeks to
compel the production of documents wholly unrelated to his particular vehicle
and unduly burdensome. 
The court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to compel
further production of documents to Plaintiff’s request for Production of
Documents, Set Two. The RFP 2 was served on Defendant on June 28, 2024. It is
now November and Defendant has not given sufficient cause for why they have not
produced the requested documents. Defendant claims they are burdensome but the
court finds the requests regarding the diagnostic trouble code not so overly
burdensome. The requests are limited to the Subject Vehicle. Accordingly, the court
finds the requests proper. 
Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Defendant Volkswagen Group of America
Inc.’s Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set Two is
GRANTED. 
The court DENIES Plaintiff’s request for
sanctions. 
 


