

Hearing Date:             March 7,
2024
Case Name:                McCleary
v. Hampton
Case No.:                    23STCV14148
Motion:                       Demurrer
and Motion to Strike
Moving Party:             Plaintiffs and Cross-Defendants Susan McCleary, Jada Fraser, Ricardo Wills
and Johnny Parker

Opposing Party:          Defendant
and Cross-Complainant Vincent Hampton
 

Tentative Ruling:      The
Demurrer to the Second Amended Cross-Complaint is sustained
as to the second and third causes of action and sustained as to the first cause
of action as to Cross-Defendant Wills only, all without leave to amend. The
motion to strike is granted. 

             
            This case arises from a landlord-tenant
dispute. On June 20, 2023, Plaintiffs Susan McCleary, Jada Fraser, Ricardo
Wills and Johnny Parker filed their Complaint, alleging eleven causes of
action: (1) Unlawful Actions by Landlord to Influence Tenant to Vacate [Civ.
Code § 1940.2]; (2) Violation of Fair Employment and Housing Act [Gov. Code §§
12955, 12989.1]; (3) Statutory Breach of the Implied Warranty of Habitability
[Civ. Code §§ 1941, 1941.1 & 1942.4]; (4) Tortious Breach of the Implied
Warranty of Habitability; (5) Breach of the Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment; (6)
Breach of Contract; (7) Negligence; (8) Negligent Hiring, Training and
Supervision; (9) Private Nuisance; (10) Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress; and (11) Unfair Competition [Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200, et seq.].
 
            On July 21,
2023, Defendant and Cross-Complainant Vincent Hampton (Cross-Complainant) filed
a Cross-Complaint alleging causes of action for: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Violation
of California Civil Code 818 and 821, Committing Waste; (3) Breach of
California Civil Code 3479, Nuisance; and (4) Private Nuisance. 
 
            On August 24, 2023, Cross-Defendants
filed a Demurrer to the Cross-Complaint. 
 
            On October 11, 2023,
Cross-Complainant filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint (FACC), alleging causes
of action for: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Violation of California Civil Code
818 and 821, Committing Waste; (3) Breach of California Civil Code 3479,
Private Nuisance; and (4) Negligence.
 
            On June 20, 2022, Cross-Defendants Susan
McCleary, Jada Fraser, Ricardo Wills and Johnny Parker (Cross-Defendants) demurred
to the entire FACC. Cross-Defendants also moved to strike portions of the FACC.
The Court sustained the demurrer to the second and third causes of action and
sustained the demurrer to the first cause of action as to Cross-Defendant Wills
only; the demurrer was overruled as to the remining issues. The motion to
strike was granted in part and denied in part. 
 
            On December 28, 2023, Defendant and
Cross-Complainant Vincent Hampton (Cross-Complainant) filed a Cross-Complaint
alleging causes of action for: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Violation of
California Civil Code 818 and 821, Committing Waste; (3) Breach of California
Civil Code 3479, Nuisance; and (4) Private Nuisance.
 
            Cross-Defendants Susan
McCleary, Jada Fraser, Ricardo Wills and Johnny Parker (Cross-Defendants) now
demur to the first, second, and third causes of action in the Second Amended
Cross-Complaint. Cross-Defendants also filed a motion to strike portions of the
SACC. Cross-Complainant Vincent Hampton (Cross-Complainant) opposes the
demurrer and motion to strike. 
 
            The demurrer is sustained in part
without leave to amend and overruled in part. The motion to strike is
granted.  
 
Demurrer
 
            A demurrer is an
objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the
face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency
of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley v. Harvey (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a pleading, for the purpose
of determining its effect, its allegations must be liberally construed, with a
view to substantial justice between the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The
court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly
pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law . . ..” ’
” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.)  
 
Analysis 
 
First Cause of Action: 
 
Cross-Defendants demur
to the first cause of action on the grounds that the SACC fails to state a
claim. 
 
To prevail on a breach
of contract cause of action, a plaintiff must prove: (1) the existence of a
contract; (2) plaintiff's performance or excuse for nonperformance; (3)
defendant's breach; and (4) resulting damages to plaintiff. (Careau &
Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371,
1388.)
 
The SACC alleges Cross-Defendants breached the lease by committing waste, by failing
to maintain the premises, by assigning and subletting the premises, and by making
changes and alterations to the Property. (SACC ¶¶ 20-32.) Specifically, the
FACC alleges that Cross-Defendants built a shed on the Property without
Cross-Complainant’s approval and allowed or failed to prevent an elderly man from
living in the shed. (SACC ¶¶ 12, 32.)  
 
In the previous demurrer, Cross-Defendants argued that the pleadings failed
to address who, how or what each Cross-Defendant did to fail to maintain the
property in a good condition.  Moreover, Cross-Defendants
specifically argued the FACC failed to allege when the shed was
installed. The Court, in considering this argument, found that, for pleading
purposes, the FACC sufficiently identified the terms of the contract and how
Cross-Defendants breached its terms. No greater particularity was required for
pleading this claim. Thus, the Court overruled the demurrer to this cause of
action on this ground. The Court then went on to sustain the demurrer as to Cross-Defendant Richard Wills/Ricardo Wills on the
grounds that he was not identified as party in the lease agreement attached to the
FACC. (FACC, Ex. A.) As such, Cross-Complainant had not alleged that this
particular cross-defendant was a party to the contract. 
 
Now, notwithstanding the Court’s ruling overruling the demurrer except
as to Cross-Defendant Richard Wills/Ricardo Wills, Cross-Defendants argue that the
SACC’s allegations that Cross-Defendants had to comply with the California Code
of Civil Procedure and the lease “is not adequate for a breach or consideration
because Cross-Defendants were required to comply with the California Code of
Civil Procedure with or without a contract.” (Dem. 9:17-21.) 
 
This demurrer argument is not well-taken. Even assuming
Cross-Defendants’ argument as to the Code of Civil Procedure was correct, the Court
cannot sustain a demurrer to part of the breach of contract cause of action. As
with the FACC, the SACC sufficiently states a claim for a breach of written
contract. (SACC ¶¶ 20-32.)
 
Cross-Complainant also now alleges the existence of implied in fact
contract with Cross-Defendant Wills based on Cross-Defendant Wills’ alleged
possession of the shed. (SACC ¶ 33.)
 
A contract is implied-in-fact when its existence and terms are
manifested by the parties' conduct. (Civ. Code, § 1621.) 
 
Here, the pleadings only show that Cross-Defendant Wills is in
possession of the shed. (SACC ¶¶ 32-33.) This allegation is insufficient to plead
the existence of an implied-in-fact contract where there is nothing alleged regarding
the parties’ conduct that would create a contract between the parties. 
 
The demurrer to the first cause of action is sustained as to
Cross-Defendant Wills without leave to amend. 
 
Second Cause of Action:
 
            Cross-Defendants
argue the second cause of action fails because Cross-Complainant failed to
satisfy all of the elements for a cause of action claiming waste. 
 
            To
assert a claim of waste, first, a plaintiff must prove the defendant is under a
duty to preserve and protect the property involved. (Schellinger Brothers v.
Cotter (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 984, 1000.) Additionally, a plaintiff must show
damage to the property was sufficiently substantial and permanent to cause
injury to its interest in the property. (Avalon Pacific-Santa Ana, L.P. v.
HD Supply Repair & Remodel, LLC (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 1183, 1213.) In
particular, damage is only deemed substantial and permanent if there is a
“substantial depreciation in the market value” of the property. (Smith v.
Cap Concrete, Inc. (1982) 133 Cal.App.3d 769, 776.)
 
            The
defect in the SACC’s claim continues to be the failure to plead facts showing a “substantial and permanent” injury to real property that
results in a permanent depreciation of the market value of the Property. 
 
That is, the SACC only alleges that
Cross-Complainant observed on several occasions an elderly man living in the
backyard of the Property in a “collapsing” shed which was never approved,
maintained or placed by the Cross-Complainant; further, this elderly man was
found defecating and urinating in the backyard. (SACC ¶ 55.) Cross-Complainant’s
claim cannot survive demurrer by alleging in a conclusory manner that “[d]ue to
the negligence caused by Cross-Defendants, they have caused substantial and
permanent damage amounting to a “substantial depreciation in the market value”
of the property.” (SACC ¶ 58.) This allegation lacks any ultimate facts in
support and fails to address the “permanent” requirement of waste. 
 
Thus, these allegations do not
demonstrate a “substantial and permanent” injury to real property and is
unlikely to have a permanent depreciation of the market value of the
Property. The demurrer to the cause of action for waste is sustained without
leave to amend.[1]

 
Third Cause of Action:
 
Cross-Defendants again argue the nuisance
cause of action is duplicative of the negligence cause of action and therefore
must fail, citing El Escorial Owners’ Assn. v. DLC
Plastering, Inc. (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 1337.
 
The elements of an action for private
nuisance are: (1) the plaintiff must prove an interference with his use and
enjoyment of its property; (2) the invasion of the plaintiff's interest in the
use and enjoyment of the land must be substantial, i.e., it caused the
plaintiff to suffer substantial actual damage; and (3) the interference with
the protected interest must not only be substantial, it must also be
unreasonable, i.e., it must be of such a nature, duration, or amount as to
constitute unreasonable interference with the use and enjoyment of the land. (Today's
IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (2022)
83 Cal.App.5th 1137, 1176.)
In El Escorial Owners’ Assn. v. DLC Plastering, Inc. (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 1337,
the court held that a nuisance claim for toxic mold contamination
could not exist separate from the plaintiff's negligence claim. (Id. at p. 1348.)
The court explained that the definition of nuisance is “so broad
that it could be “ ‘applied indiscriminately to everything.” ’ ” (Id. at p. 1348
[quoting City of San Diego v. U.S. Gypsum Co. (1995) 30
Cal.App.4th 575, 585].) The court explained that permitting traditional torts
to be litigated as nuisance claims “would allow
nuisance to “ ‘become a monster that would devour in one gulp
the entire law of tort.” ’ ” (El Escorial, at p. 1348.)
In El Escorial, the “factual allegations
incorporated into the nuisance cause of action
involved negligence and defective workmanship.” The court
concluded that, “[w]here negligence and nuisance causes of action rely on the
same facts about lack of due care, the nuisance claim is
a negligence claim.” (El Escorial, supra, 154
Cal.App.4th at p. 1349; see Melton v. Boustred (2010)
183 Cal.App.4th 521, 542–543 [nuisance claim failed
with negligence claim where the nuisance claim relied on
the same facts].)
            The importance of
preventing the broad label of “nuisance” from swallowing the elements of
a negligence claim is particularly pronounced here, where, in
contrast to a negligence claim, liability for nuisance does
not depend on a defendant's ability to control the property creating
the nuisance. (See Melton, supra, 183
Cal.App.4th at p. 542.) That is, nuisance liability “does not hinge on whether the defendant owns,
possesses or controls the property, nor on whether he is in a position to abate
the nuisance; the critical question is whether the defendant created or
assisted in the creation of the nuisance.” (City of Modesto Redevelopment
Agency v. Superior Court (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 28, 38.)
The demurrer here argues that the claims
for nuisance and negligence arises out of the same purported breach of due care
to maintain the premises. (Compare SACC ¶¶ 60, 67-70 [nuisance claim]
with ¶¶ 72, 81-86 [negligence claim].) 
 
Inexplicitly, cross-complainant’s opposition
to the demurrer argues that:
 
“Cross-Defendants also
demurrer that the cause of action for private nuisance and negligence are
duplicative but fails to allege appropriate case law substantiating the
allegation. The case law referenced by Cross-Defendants is regarding an action
for nuisance and negligence. Here, CrossComplainant has not pleaded a cause of
action for negligence and is not attempting to introduce a cause of action
based on inapplicable facts. Moreover, Cross-Complainant is alleging that the
set of facts referenced in the Cross Compliant has violated four separate
causes of action, each on their own merits.” (Opp. 7:3-10.) 
 
            Cross-Complainant
fails to address the El Escorial Owners’ Assn. case.
 
The two claims are duplicative, relying
on the same set of facts. Accordingly, the demurrer to the third cause of
action is sustained without leave to amend. 
 
Legal Standard for Motions to
Strike
 
            “The court may, upon a motion made
pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) “Immaterial” or “irrelevant” matters
include allegations not essential to the claim, allegations neither pertinent
to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or a demand for judgment
requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 431.10, subds. (b)(1)-(3).)
 
Discussion
 
            Cross-Defendants move to strike the
request for treble damages and punitive damages in the SACC.
 
            As the Court has sustained the demurrer
to the second and third causes of action, the motion to strike is granted as to the request for treble damages
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 732 under the cause of action for
waste.
 
            Moreover, with respect
to the punitive damages request, Cross-Complainant has again
failed to plead the request for these damages with the heightened particularity
required for pleading punitive damages.
 
Punitive
damages are recoverable where the defendant has been guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice, express or implied. (Civ. Code, § 3294.) “Something more than
the mere commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages. There
must be circumstances of aggravation our outrage, such as spite or malice, or a
fraudulent or evil motive on the part of the defendant, or such a conscious and
deliberate disregard of the interests of others that his conduct may be called
willful or wanton.” (Taylor v. Superior
Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894.) Specific intent to injure is not
necessary for a showing of malice—it is sufficient that the defendant’s conduct
was so “wanton or so reckless as to evince malice or conscious disregard of
others’ rights.” (McConnell v. Quinn (1925)
71 Cal. App. 671, 682.) 
 
A request
for punitive damages that is not supported with specific allegations of
oppression, fraud, or malice is subject to a motion to strike. Conclusory
allegations that defendants acted “willfully,” “maliciously,” or with
“oppression, fraud, or malice” are not, without more, sufficient to give rise
to a claim for punitive damages, but such language is permissible where the
complaint contains sufficient factual support for the conclusions. (Perkins v. Superior Court (1981) 117
Cal.App.3d 1, 6-7.) 
 
The SACC
only alleges that Cross-Defendants failed to maintain the property by erecting
a shed on the Property. There are no allegations showing any wanton, willful or
fraudulent conduct. Thus, the request for punitive damages must be struck from
the SACC. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion to strike is granted as to the request for treble damages and punitive
damages. 
 
Conclusion
 
            The demurrer to the Second Amended
Cross-Complaint is sustained as to the second and third causes of action and
sustained as to the first cause of action as to Cross-Defendant Wills only. The
motion to strike is granted. Cross-Complainant shall not have leave to amend. 
 
            Cross-Defendants’
Answer to the Second Amended Complaint shall be served and filed on or before
March 29, 2024.                                                                                                                                                                                                                     

 


