 Case Number:  23STCV18157    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  48  
                                                                                                   
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



IVAN E. LEON MALDONADO, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
FCA US LLC,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV18157
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING AS MOOT MOTION
  TO COMPEL DISCOVERY
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
March 21, 2024



 
On
November 6, 2023, Plaintiff Ivan E. Leon Maldonado propounded discovery on Defendant
FCA US LLC.  (Lee Decl. ¶ 3.)  Plaintiff never received any responses or contact
from Defendant.  (Lee Decl. ¶¶ 5, 7.)
On
February 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed a single motion to compel responses to (1) Form
Interrogatories, Set One; (2) Special Interrogatories, Set One; (3) Request for
Production, Set One; and (4) Request for Admissions, Set One.
According
to Defendant, it timely served verified responses on December 20, 2023.  (Dao Decl. ¶ 4 & Ex. A.)
According
to Plaintiff, there is no record of receipt in three of the firm’s email accounts/databases.  (Lee Suppl. Decl. ¶¶ 3-7.)  However, Plaintiff omits mention of the fourth
email address on Defendant’s proofs of service.
Plaintiff
contends that “[h]ad Plaintiff received FCA’s discovery responses, Plaintiff would
have simply taken the instant motion off-calendar.”  (Reply at p. 2.)  Plaintiff did receive Defendant’s discovery responses,
even if only with Defendant’s opposition to this motion.  Plaintiff’s contention that “a single responsive
email from Defendant indicating when Plaintiff could expect its untimely responses
would have resolved the issue” is not well-taken when Defendant already asserted
that it did serve the responses (and thus, in Defendant’s view, Plaintiff was not
owed any untimely responses).  (Reply at p.
2.)  The Court cannot conclude that Defendant
“deliberately ignored Plaintiff’s requests for its discovery responses” in light
of the meager record on this motion.  (Reply
at pp. 2-3.)
In
any event, Plaintiff is now in receipt of Defendant’s responses.  (See Dao Decl., Ex. A.)  The motion to compel responses is DENIED AS MOOT.
Additionally,
each category of discovery should have been filed as a separate motion, with separate
filing fees and hearing reservations.  Despite
being scheduled as only one motion and one hearing, the total substance is that
of four motions.  This unfairly allows Plaintiff
to take only one hearing reservation (instead of four) and results in an inaccurate
projection and accounting of the Court’s workload, inconveniencing both the Court
and other litigants.   All parties are ordered
not to do this again and are warned that continued action of this type may result
in monetary sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure section 177.5.
Plaintiff
is ORDERED to pay three additional filing fees within 10 days.
A
Non-Appearance Case Review Re: Payment of Additional Filing Fees is scheduled for
April 24, 2024 at 9:00 a.m.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 21st day of March 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 