  Case Number:  19STCV42761    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



HYUNG KOO, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
CENTRAL FITNESS PARTNERS, INC., et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 19STCV42761
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTIONS TO COMPEL
  FURTHER
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
March 21, 2024



 
On
November 27, 2019, Plaintiff Hyung Koo filed this personal injury action.  The Complaint alleges that on November 8, 2019,
Plaintiff was severely injured at Wilfit Sports Club when a cable crossover machine
toppled over on him.
On
February 26, 2024, Defendant Jamison Realty Advisors LLC filed a motion to compel
Plaintiff’s further responses to Requests for Admissions and Form Interrogatories
(CRS #: 442576881556).  Defendant filed a
separate Joint Statement for each category of discovery.
On
February 27, 2024, Defendants Central Plaza LLC and Jamison Services Inc. filed
a motion to compel Plaintiff’s further responses to Requests for Admissions and
Form Interrogatories (CRS #: 441879734044). 
Defendants filed a separate Joint Statement for each defendant and each category
of discovery.
MULTIPLE
MOTIONS AND FILING FEES
Each
category of discovery should have been filed as a separate motion by each Defendant,
with separate filing fees and hearing reservations.  Despite being scheduled as only two motions and
two hearings, the total substance is that of six motions.  This unfairly allows the parties to take only
two hearing reservations (instead of six) and results in an inaccurate projection
and accounting of the Court’s workload, inconveniencing both the Court and other
litigants.   All parties are ordered not to
do this again and are warned that continued action of this type may result in monetary
sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure section 177.5.
Jamison
Realty Advisors LLC reserved CRS #: 442576881556 for two categories of discovery.  Jamison Realty Advisors LLC is ORDERED to pay
one additional filing fee within 10 days.
Jamison
Services Inc. reserved CRS #: 441879734044. 
Jamison Services Inc. is ORDERED to pay one additional filing fee within
10 days.  Central Plaza LLC is ORDERED to
pay two filing fees within 10 days.
For
any future discovery motions, the parties must file a separate motion for each discovery
request, or the Court may strike or deny the motions for being improperly filed.
A
Non-Appearance Case Review Re: Payment of Additional Filing Fees is scheduled for
April 24, 2024 at 9:00 a.m.
JAMISON REALTY ADVISORS LLC’S
MOTIONS
Jamison
Realty Advisors LLC seeks to compel further responses to RFA Nos. 16, 17, 20, 21
and Form Rog No. 17.1.
The
RFAs ask Plaintiff to admit that Defendant “was not part of a single enterprise
with” Central Fitness Partners Inc. or Central Fitness LP, and admit that Plaintiff
has no evidence that the Defendant “was part of a single enterprise with” the entities.
Plaintiff’s
objections about seeking a legal conclusion are overruled.  “[A] request may ask a party for a legal conclusion.”  (Grace v. Mansourian (2015) 240 Cal.App.4th
523, 529.)
Plaintiff
also objected that “[t]his request is vague and ambiguous and fails to provide any
context for the admission sought, thereby calling for speculation on the part of
responding party. . . . Defendant failed to define what is meant by ‘single enterprise’
and refuses to clarify what the meaning of the same is.  As such, this request calls for speculation on
the part of Plaintiff . . . .”  After objecting,
Plaintiff responded, “Plaintiff is unable to admit or deny this request due to insufficient
knowledge to respond.”
On
January 25, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel emailed Defendant’s counsel: “As for the RFA
16, 17, 20, and 21, please send me a definition or explanation of the law as to
single enterprise, so we know what that phase or term means.”  (Kim Decl., Ex. 1.)  The next day, Defendant’s counsel responded that
he “not agreeable to providing a definition for a legal concept.  If your office is not familiar with the singe
enterprise theory, then they have the ability to look it up.”
On
February 14, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel again emailed Defendant’s counsel: “You should
define the term ‘single enterprise.’  I asked
you repeatedly to define what YOU think it is. 
I don’t understand why you won’t define it and why you insist on keeping
your definition of the term a secret.”  (Kim
Decl., Ex. 2.)
Because
Defendant may ask for a legal conclusion, the motion is GRANTED for the RFAs.  Plaintiff’s response is insufficient.  “If a responding party gives lack of information
or knowledge as a reason for a failure to admit all or part of a request for admission,
that party shall state in the answer that a reasonable inquiry concerning the matter
in the particular request has been made, and that the information known or readily
obtainable is insufficient to enable that party to admit the matter.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.220, subd. (c).)
As
Defendant states, “The disconnect between the Request for Admission responses and
[Form] Interrogatory 17.1 (as to Nos. 16, 17, 20 and 21) make the Interrogatory
responses void of meaning as they have no context in relation to the Request for
Admission responses.”
The
motion is also GRANTED for Form Rog No. 17.1.
CENTRAL PLAZA LLC AND JAMISON
SERVICES INC.’S MOTIONS
Central
Plaza LLC seeks to compel further responses to RFA Nos. 11-14 and Form Rog No. 17.1.  Jamison Services Inc. seeks to compel further
responses to RFA Nos. 19-22 and Form Rog No. 17.1.
The
RFAs propounded by each Defendant are similar, asking Plaintiff to admit that each
Defendant “was not part of a single enterprise with” Central Fitness Partners Inc.
or Central Fitness LP, and admit that Plaintiff has no evidence that the Defendant
“was part of a single enterprise with” the entities.
Plaintiff’s
objections about seeking a legal conclusion are overruled.  “[A] request may ask a party for a legal conclusion.”  (Grace v. Mansourian (2015) 240 Cal.App.4th
523, 529.)
Plaintiff
also objected that “[t]his request is vague and ambiguous and fails to provide any
context for the admission sought, thereby calling for speculation on the part of
responding party. . . . Defendant failed to define what is meant by ‘single enterprise’
and refuses to clarify what the meaning of the same is.  As such, this request calls for speculation on
the part of Plaintiff . . . .”  After objecting,
Plaintiff responded, “Plaintiff is unable to admit or deny this request due to insufficient
knowledge to respond.”
On
February 22, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel emailed Defendants’ counsel: “I noticed Central
Plaza and Jamison Services’ RFAs are nearly identical to that of Jamison Realty.  All three use the term ‘single enterprise,’ but
none of the discovery defines the term.  I
know Greg Smith refuses to define the term and has stated that it’s up to responding
party to interpret what that term means. 
Is your office taking the same position?”  (Kim Decl. ¶ 4 & Ex. 1.)
On
February 26, 2024 (the day before filing the motion), Defendants’ counsel responded,
in part: “Single enterprise is a legal doctrine.  Your office is comprised of respected trial attorneys.  If plaintiff is not pursuing liability under the
single enterprise doctrine, the responses should state so.  If your office is still considering whether to
make a claim for single enterprise, the responses should state so and answer form
interrogatory 17.1 accordingly.”  (Manji Decl.,
Ex. F.)
With
this clarification from Defendants, and because Defendants may ask for a legal conclusion,
the motion is GRANTED for the RFAs.  Plaintiff’s
response is insufficient.  “If a responding
party gives lack of information or knowledge as a reason for a failure to admit
all or part of a request for admission, that party shall state in the answer that
a reasonable inquiry concerning the matter in the particular request has been made,
and that the information known or readily obtainable is insufficient to enable that
party to admit the matter.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2033.220, subd. (c).)
As
Defendants state, Plaintiff’s factual responses for Form Rog No. 17.1 “appear to
be a statement of Plaintiff’s entire case against every defendant.  It is a chronological timeline pertaining Jamison
Services, Inc., Central Plaza, LLC, Central Fitness LLC, TechnoGym USA’s involvement
in the creation of the gym, purchasing of gym equipment, obtaining city permits,
documents that were signed, discussions that were had, etc.  It is impossible to determine which of these facts
are relevant to which of the 14 RFAs propounded by Defendant, which of the 200+
deposition exhibits are pertinent to which RFA, which individual has knowledge to
a particular RFA, and which of hundreds of discovery responses by multiple parties
is pertinent to a particular RFA.”
The
motion is also GRANTED for Form Rog No. 17.1
CONCLUSION
The
motions are GRANTED.
Plaintiff
is ordered to provide supplemental responses to Jamison Realty Advisors LLC’s RFA
Nos. 16, 17, 20, 21 and Form Rog No. 17.1 within 30 days.
Plaintiff
is ordered to provide supplemental responses to Central Plaza LLC’s RFA Nos. 11-14
and Form Rog No. 17.1 within 30 days.
Plaintiff
is ordered to provide supplemental responses to Jamison Services Inc.’s RFA Nos.
19-22 and Form Rog No. 17.1 within 30 days.
Clerk
to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 21st day of March 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 