 Case Number:  23STCV10020    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



ALEX MARTINEZ, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
PRESTIGE CONSUMER HEALTHCARE INC.,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV10020
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER OVERRULING DEMURRER 
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
March 21, 2024



 
On May 3, 2023, Plaintiff Alex
Martinez filed this action against Defendant Prestige Consumer Healthcare Inc. for
civil penalties and injunctive relief based on violations of Health & Safety
Code section 25249.6 et seq.
On
July 3, 2023, Defendant filed a demurrer.
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
Defendant
asks the Court to take judicial notice of several documents.
Exhibit
A (Complaint in this case): Denied as unnecessary because this document is already
part of the case’s record.
Exhibit
B (Final Statement of Reasons 27 CCR (formerly 22 CCR) Safe Drinking Water and Toxic
Enforcement Act of 1986): Denied as irrelevant.
Exhibit
C (relevant pages from the Federal Register volume 48, dated July 29, 1983, concerning
regulations governing warning labeling for products containing Phenazopyridine Hydrochloride):
Granted.
Exhibit
D (pages on the drug Uristat, including labeling and warning information mandated
by the FDA, from the U.S. National Institutes of Health’s “DailyMed” website): Granted.  This includes the label that Plaintiff alleges
is misleading, and it forms the basis for the allegations in the Complaint.  (See Align Technology, Inc. v. Tran (2009)
179 Cal.App.4th 949, 956, fn. 6.)  Plaintiff
has not opposed the requests and does not dispute its accuracy.  (See Ingram v. Flippo (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th
1280, 1285, fn. 3.)
Exhibit
E (Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment’s 1992 Expedited Cancer Potency
Values and Proposed Regulatory Levels for Certain Proposition 65 Carcinogens): Denied
as irrelevant and improperly submitted on reply.
DISCUSSION
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.)  When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as true.  (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015)
236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.)  “Because a demurrer
challenges defects on the face of the complaint, it can only refer to matters outside
the pleading that are subject to judicial notice.”  (Arce ex rel. Arce v. Kaiser Found. Health
Plan, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 471, 556.)
Under
Proposition 65, “[n]o person in the course of doing business shall knowingly and
intentionally expose any individual to a chemical known to the state to cause cancer
or reproductive toxicity without first giving clear and reasonable warning to such
individual.”
Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant “developed, manufactured, marketed, distributed, and/or sold
the Subject Product [“Uristat Urinary Tract Infection Pain Relief Tablets”] containing
Phenazopyridine Hydrochloride into the State of California” without a clear and
reasonable warning that they have been exposed to chemical known to the State of
California to cause cancer, birth defects, and other reproductive harm.”  (Complaint ¶¶ 6, 26-30, 32.)
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff cannot prove an intentional exposure without a clear and reasonable
warning because the Subject Product’s label includes the FDA-required warning.  (Demurrer at pp. 10-14.)  The FDA-required warning states: “Long-term administration
of phenazopyridine hydrochloride has induced neoplasia in rats (large intestine)
and mice (liver).  Although no association
between phenazopyridine hydrochloride and human neoplasia has been reported, adequate
epidemiological studies along these lines have not been conducted.”  (Demurrer at p. 11 & Exs. C-D.)  Whether this is a compliant “clear and reasonable
warning” about the risk of cancer or reproductive toxicity in humans cannot be determined
on demurrer.
Defendant
also argues that Plaintiff’s claims are preempted by federal law, relying heavily
on Dowhal v. SmithKline Beecham Consumer Healthcare (2004) 32 Cal.4th 910
(Dowhal).  (Demurrer at pp. 14-17.)  According to Defendant, ‘the Dowhal court
concluded FDA “established a federal policy prohibiting defendants from giving consumers
any warning other than the one approved by the FDA in that letter, and that the
use of a Proposition 65 warning would conflict with that policy.’  Id. at p. 929.  The same kind of preemption applies here.”
The
Dowhal court did not make such a broad pronouncement for all labels.  Rather, the court specifically addressed the FDA’s
August 17, 2001 letter and the federal policy it established.  (Dowhal, supra, 32 Cal.4th at p. 929.)  “The apparent conflict arises from the FDA's insistence
that defendants must use the warning it has promulgated unless they have data to
support a different warning.  The FDA has
rejected plaintiff’s claim that his data justify a different warning, and defendants
do not claim to have any additional data. 
Thus, if a defendant were to add a warning to its label advising that nicotine
can cause fetal harm, it would violate the FDA’s determination and would risk legal
sanctions.”  (Id. at p. 927.)  The letter “specifically rejected plaintiff's
proposed ‘can harm your baby’ warning.  It
did not expressly reject all possible Proposition 65 warnings.”  (Ibid., citation omitted.)  The court concluded that the FDA’s ruling “reflects
the concern that Proposition 65 warnings on product labels might lead pregnant women
to believe that NRT products were as dangerous as smoking, or nearly so, and thus
discourage the women from stopping smoking. . . . Conflict preemption does not require
a direct contradiction between state and federal law; the state law is preempted
if state law ‘“stands as an obstacle to the accomplishment and execution of the
full purposes and objectives of Congress.”’” 
(Id. at p. 929.)
At
the pleading and demurrer stage, it is premature and inappropriate to make a fact-intensive
finding of preemption like that made at summary judgment in Dowhal.
Defendant
also cites Center for Environmental Health v. Perrigo Co. (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th
1 (Perrigo) as instructive.  (Demurrer
at pp. 16-17.)  The Perrigo court concluded
that Proposition 65’s self-exception applied, and the “action against the generic-drug
defendants cannot go forward, if federal law governs warning in a manner that preempts
state law governing warning.”  (Perrigo,
supra, 89 Cal.App.5th at p. 24.)  The
court proceeded to determine “whether the generic-drug defendants could give warnings
about their products that comply with both Proposition 65 and federal law,” and
“since the manufacturer of a generic drug cannot deviate from the labeling of the
brand-name version of the drug, it would be impossible for the generic-drug defendants
to give a Proposition 65 point-of-sale warning without violating the federal duty
of sameness.”  (Id. at pp. 24, 33.)
Here,
there is no facial conflict between federal law and Proposition 65 and no showing
that adding a Proposition 65 label on the Subject Product would not also comply
with federal requirements.
The
demurrer is overruled.
CONCLUSION
The
demurrer is OVERRULED.  Defendant is ordered
to file an answer within 10 days.  (California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1320(j)(1).)
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 21st day of March 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 