 Case Number:  21STCV33923    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



LEO CORDOVA, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
LONG SPRING FREIGHT, LLC, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 21STCV33923
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING PLAINTIFF'S MOTION
  TO SUBSTITUTE SUCCESSOR IN INTEREST FOR DECEASED DEFENDANT
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
March 21, 2024



 
On
February 26, 2024, Plaintiff Leo Cordova filed this motion to substitute Stella
K. Hui as the successor in interest of Defendant Grace Hsiao Hui, who is now deceased.
A
cause of action against a decedent that does not abate may be continued against
the decedent’s personal representative successor in interest, “except that the court
may not permit an action or proceeding to be continued against the personal representative
unless proof of compliance with Part 4 (commencing with Section 9000) of Division
7 of the Probate Code governing creditor claims is first made.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.41.)
Probate
Code section 9370 sets forth the conditions that must be satisfied before an action
may be continued against the decedent’s personal representative.  An action or proceeding pending against the decedent
at the time of death may not be continued against the decedent’s personal representative
unless (1) a claim is first filed; (2) the claim is rejected in whole or in part;
and (3) within three months after the notice of rejection is given, the plaintiff
applies to the court for an order to substitute the personal representative in the
action or proceeding.  (Prob. Code, § 9370,
subd. (a).)  “No recovery shall be allowed
in the action against property in the decedent's estate unless proof is made of
compliance with this section.”  (Prob. Code,
§ 9370, subd. (b).)
Plaintiff
seeks to substitute Defendant’s daughter, Stella K. Hui, as Defendant’s successor
in interest.  “As a result of [Plaintiff’s]
close working relationship with Grace, Grace told [Plaintiff] that Stella K. Hui
(‘Stella’) was her only child,” and Plaintiff has personally met Stella.  (Cordova Decl. ¶ 4.)  Plaintiff’s counsel conducted multiple searches
for pending probate matters concerning Grace’s estate in Los Angeles County, Orange
County, San Bernardino County, and Riverside County, and it is reasonably believed
that no probate matters have been initiated regarding Grace’s estate.  (Bressler Decl. ¶ 6.)
However,
there is no showing that Plaintiff has complied with the requirements of Probate
Code section 9370 so that he may recover against Defendant Grace Hsiao Hui’s estate.  Additionally, the motion’s proof of service does
not reflect service on Stella K. Hui.
The
motion to substitute Stella K. Hui as the successor in interest of Defendant Grace
Hsiao Hui is DENIED.  
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 21st day of March 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 