 Case Number:  22SMCV00063    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Cienega
Ventures LLC, v. 730 N. La Cienega LLC, et al.
CASE NO.:                22SMCV00063 
MOTION:                  Leave
to Amend to File a Fourth Amended Complaint
HEARING DATE:   9/26/2023

 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff owns a commercial building, located at 730
North La Cienega Boulevard, Los Angeles, California. On February 28, 2002,
Haque personally assumed a lease with Plaintiff’s predecessor (the “Assumed
Lease”) to rent the Premises for the purpose of operating Koi restaurant.
Later, the Assumed Lease was assigned to defendant Koi LP. The Assumed Lease,
including all extensions thereof, was set to expire on July 23, 2012. In the summer of 2012, Haque
represented he had formed 730 North to operate the restaurant. On July 23, 2012, 730 North and Plaintiff
entered into a new, written lease for the Premises (the “Lease”). Defendants
allegedly breached the Lease by failing to: a) Pay rent, late fees, and
interest when due, currently totaling $473,981.77 which began to accrue with a
missed payment in April 2020; b) Maintain with Plaintiff a security deposit in the required sum; c) Maintain
the Premises in good order and repair (including unpermitted and shoddy work);
d) Maintain the exterior of the premises; e) Provide Plaintiff with access to
the premises to inspect and conduct needed repairs; f) Maintain and provide
Plaintiff with the details of required property and business interruption
insurance coverage for the years 2019, 2020, and 2021; g) Give notice to the
landlord before subleasing the premises to Koi; and h) Allow Plaintiff to show
the premises to prospective purchasers/tenants. The operative Third Amended
Complaint (TAC) claims causes of action for breach of contract and fraud.
 
LEGAL AMEND
STANDARD
 
If a party
wishes to amend a pleading after an answer has been filed, or after a demurrer
has been filed and after the hearing on the demurrer, or if he or she has
already amended the pleading as a matter of course, the party must obtain permission
from the court before amendment. (CCP §§ 473(a)(1), 576.) 
 
Motions
for leave to amend the pleadings are directed to the sound discretion of the
court. “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be
proper, allow a party to amend any pleading . . ..” (CCP § 473(a)(1); see CCP §
576.) Policy favors liberally granting leave to amend so that all disputed
matters between the parties may be resolved. (See Howard v. County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422,
1428.) Absent prejudice to the adverse party, the court may permit amendments
to the complaint “at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial.”
(Atkinson v. Elk Corp.
(2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761 [internal quotes omitted].) Where leave is
sought to add entirely new claims, the court may grant leave to amend if the
new claims are based on the same general set of facts, and the amendment will
not prejudice the opposing party. (Austin
v. Massachusetts Bonding & Ins. Co. (1961) 56 Cal.2d 596, 600-602; Glaser v. Meyers (1982) 137 Cal.App.3d 770, 777 [holding
trial court did not abuse its discretion in permitting amendment of complaint,
which originally alleged constructive eviction, to allege retaliatory eviction
where the new claim was based on the same general set of facts].)
 
Although
denial is rarely justified, a judge has discretion to deny leave to amend if
the party seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced
the opposing party. (Morgan v. Superior
Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530; Hirsa v. Superior Court
(1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490). An opposing party is prejudiced where the
amendment would necessitate a trial delay along with a loss of critical
evidence, added preparation expense, increased burden of discovery, etc. (Magpali
v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488 [leave properly
denied where plaintiff sought leave on the eve of trial, nearly two years after
the complaint was originally filed and gave no explanation for the delay which
prejudiced defendant who did not discover or depose many of the witnesses who would
support the new allegations and had not marshaled evidence in opposition of the
new allegations].)
 
Procedurally,
a motion for leave to amend must state with particularity what allegations are
to be amended. Namely, it must state what allegations in the previous pleading
are proposed to be deleted and/or added, if any, and where, by page, paragraph,
and line number. (CRC, Rule 3.1324(a)(2)-(3).) The motion must be accompanied
by a declaration specifying: (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the
amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for
amendment was not made earlier. (CRC, Rule 3.1324(b).) The motion must also be
accompanied by the proposed amended pleading, numbered to differentiate it from
the prior pleadings or amendments. (CRC, Rule 3.1324(a)(1).) It is within the
court’s discretion to require compliance with Rule 3.1324 before granting leave
to amend. (Hataishi v. First American Home Buyers Protection Corp. (2014)
223 Cal.App.4th 1454, 1469.)
 
ANALYSIS
 
            Plaintiff
moves for leave to file a Fourth Amended Complaint (“4AC”). The proposed FAC
deletes two subparagraphs in Plaintiff’s Breach of Contract Claim (¶¶ 19(l),
23(h)) and replaces those two deleted subparagraphs with two subparagraphs
alleging an additional factual basis for the breach of written lease claim
(Exhibit B, Redlined Changes). The changes include:
 
• FAC ¶ 19(l) (pp. 7:5-9): In the
event that Lessee’s use of the Premises requires modifications or additions to
the Premises in order to be compliant with the Americans with Disabilities Act,
Lessee agrees to make any such necessary modifications and/or additions at
Lessee’s expense.” (Id., ¶ 50.)
• FAC ¶ 23(h) (pp. 8:14-20): Make
modifications or additions to the Premises to render it compliant with the
Americans with Disabilities Act as the same applies to restaurants of the sort
that Defendants operated on the Premises, including with respect to the
construction and maintenance of a wheelchair ramp at the entrance and compliant
restroom facilities. (The Premises was not compliant with ADA laws and
regulations in these respects during the time during the lease term and given
the nature of Defendants’ use thereof.).
 
Plaintiff brings this amendment now
because it believes it has sufficient evidence to prove additional breaches of
the written lease at issue in this lawsuit. Plaintiff argues that Defendant was
obliged under the lease to make the Premises compliant with the American With
Disabilities Act (“ADA”), but Defendants failed to do that. (Perry Decl., ¶ 6.)
In April or May 2023, Plaintiff’s new tenant verbally informed Plaintiff that
the Premises may not be compliant with the ADA. This was confirmed in written
correspondence from the new tenant to Plaintiff on July 30, 2023. (Perry Decl.,
¶ 7.) Plaintiff did not know, nor have reason to know the Premises was not ADA
compliant until this correspondence. (¶ 8.) The only principal of Plaintiff is
not knowledgeable about ADA requirements for public dining establishments. (¶
8.) 
 
Defendants dispute that Plaintiff
timely filed for this amendment. Defendant argues that Plaintiff had notice of
these ADA-related claims against Defendants by at least June 2022. 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff needly delayed in seeking
leave to amend because Plaintiff’s principal was aware of the ADA requirements,
as shown by a 2005 ADA suit filed against Plaintiff. Further, on July 11, 2022,
Plaintiff’s counsel emailed Defendants’ counsel about a prospective tenant who
was taking measurements to build an ADA-compliant ramp after leasing the
Premises. (Derby Decl., Ex. 3.) An invoice produced by Plaintiff from MDR
Builders shows that on June 28, 2022, Plaintiff had MDR construct a ramp and
ADA compliant restrooms at the Premises. (Id., Ex. 4.) On November 13, 2022,
Plaintiff’s counsel sent a letter to Defendants’ counsel alleging a legal claim
on the same ADA-compliant restrooms issue. (Id. Ex. 5.) 
 
The Court agrees that this evidence
demonstrates that Plaintiff likely knew by June or July 2022 that the Premises
itself lacked ADA compliant ramp(s) and restrooms. Plaintiff then filed its
Second Amended Complaint on July 18, 2022, and TAC on March 17, 2023, both of
which failed to raise this purported ADA-compliance issue. Plaintiff
unreasonably delayed in bringing this issue to the Court’s attention, raising
the issue for the first time on August 17, 2023. Thus, there was a substantial
delay in moving to amend.
 
            However,
any delay does not appear to be significantly prejudicial. At worst, Defendants
claim that they will have to re-open Plaintiff’s deposition, increasing
discovery costs. The record shows this issue was apparently not a surprise to
Defendants. At Defendants’ prior depositions of Plaintiff, Defendants
questioned Plaintiff regarding his claims about the ADA compliant bathrooms.
Defendants specifically asked questions about the lease’s requirements to build
ADA-compliant bathrooms and structures. In light of this record, Defendants would
not be substantively prejudiced by the amendments. 
 
Defendants also argue that the 4AC
is deficient as a matter of law for at least two reasons. Plaintiff’s
ADA-related claim is being brought years late, far outside of the applicable
four-year limitations period for breach of written contract, that the contract
did not require Defendants to construct any modifications, that the restaurant
was compliant with the ADA, and that the claim is now moot since Defendants
vacated the premises in 2023. The Court does not find that these arguments are
germane for leave to amend. These arguments are better discussed in a
procedurally proper motion attacking the pleadings, such as a demurrer, motion
to strike, or motion for summary judgment.
 
The Court therefore finds that
there is insufficient substantial prejudice to justify denial of leave to
amend, despite any delay on Plaintiff’s part. Accordingly, the motion for leave
to amend is GRANTED.  The 4AC shall be
filed within three court days.