 Case Number:  23SMCP00011    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           LMS, v. WLS,
et al.
CASE NO.:                23SMCP00011
MOTION:                  Motion
for Reconsideration
HEARING DATE:   9/26/2023
 
Legal
Standard
 
A non-prevailing party may make
a motion to reconsider and enter a different order under the following conditions:
(1) brought before the same judge that made the order sought to be
reconsidered; (2) made within 10 days after service upon the party of the
notice of entry of the order (extended under Code of Civil Procedure § 1013 based
upon type of service); (3) based on new or different facts, circumstances or
law than those before the court at the time of the original ruling; (4)
supported by a declaration stating the previous order, by which judge it was
made, and the new or different facts, circumstances or law claimed to exist;
and (5) the motion must be made and decided before entry of judgment. (Code
Civ. Procedure § 1008.) 
 
The legislature intended to restrict
motions for reconsideration to circumstances where a party offers the court
some fact or circumstance not previously considered and some valid reason for
not offering it earlier. (Gilberd v. AC Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th
1494, 1500 [misinterpretation of the law is not a new or different
matter].)  Thus, “[t]o be entitled to reconsideration, a party
should show that (1) evidence of new or different facts exist, and (2) the
party has a satisfactory explanation for failing to produce such evidence at an
earlier time.” (Mink v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.App.4th 1338, 1342.)
The moving party must demonstrate that such newly discovered evidence could not, with
reasonable diligence, have previously discovered and produced. (Wilcox v.
Ford (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 1170.)
 
The court may also reconsider
its prior interim orders on its own motion to correct its own errors. (Le
Francoise v. Goel (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1094, 1107-09.) 
 
Analysis

 
Plaintiff Michael Sanchez moves for
reconsideration of the Court’s orders granting his counsel’s Motion to Withdraw
and Lawyer Defendants’ Motion for Attorneys’ Fees. Plaintiff’s motion fails for
multiple reasons. 
 
As an initial matter, Plaintiff
cites Federal Rule of Civil Procedure (FRCP), Rule 59(e), in support of his
motion.  That rule, however, is
inapplicable to these proceedings. Pursuant to Rule 59(e). Plaintiff asks for
reconsideration to avoid a “manifest injustice.” The Court directs Plaintiff to
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1008, which applies here. Section
1008 does not give a court authority to reconsider its decision to avoid a
“manifest injustice.”  Thus, the motion
cannot be granted on such grounds. 
 
In any event, Section 1008 section
provides that a motion for reconsideration must be made within 10 days after
service of the notice of entry of the order. The Motion to be Relieved as Counsel
filed by Mr. Waddington was granted on June 28, 2023. Plaintiff filed an
opposition to the motion and was personally present at the hearing on the
motion. The instant reconsideration motion was filed and served on August 11, 2023,
which is more than 10 days after the service of the order relieving Mr.
Waddington as counsel. Plaintiff provides no evidence to the contrary. Thus,
the Court cannot grant reconsideration of that motion.
 
Plaintiff timely brought this
motion against the attorneys’ fee award within 10 days. Thus, the Court will
examine the declaration proffered by Plaintiff to determine if there are any
new or different facts, circumstances or law, which would justify
reconsideration. 
 
The declaration itself is awash
with facts that are not relevant to the attorneys’ fees motion. Plaintiff goes
into the entire history of his myriad disputes with the parties here, as well
as various third parties. He does not address any facts pertaining to issues
raised in the attorneys’ fees motion. Instead of focusing on the issues
presented in the motion, and the Court’s order, Plaintiff emphasizes the
following facts: 1) Mr. Waddington committed malpractice in a number of
ways in this action and others, including failing to submit certain evidence proving
Plaintiff’s claims, failing to dispute acts of perjury by defendants in other
actions, coercing a loan from Plaintiff, “gaslighting” Plaintiff, refusing to
provide complete case files, missing a statute of limitations, failing to
counter Defendant’s fee requests, and failing to effective represent him in a
mediation regarding a separate action; and 2) the underlying Anti-SLAPP motions
were granted in error because Ms. Sanchez never seriously contemplated filing
the contemplated Cross-Complaint, her counsel did not conduct basic due diligence
before making claims, and the “in California” reference was not referring to
the age of majority. Even if the Court assumes the truth of all these points,
Plaintiff cites no “new or different” facts, circumstances or law that were unavailable to
him when he opposed the attorneys’ fees motion. Further, none of these facts
would change the outcome of the attorneys’ fees motion, which dealt with
entitlement to fees and whether the amount of fees was reasonable. Therefore,
the motion for reconsideration cannot be granted.
 
Accordingly, the motion for
reconsideration is DENIED.