  Case Number:  23STCV31299    Hearing Date:   March 18, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County of
  Los Angeles




 
Singleton Fisheries, Inc., etc., 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case 
No.:
 


 
23STCV31299




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




 
Total Quality Logistics, LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: March 18, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter 
Motion to Dismiss 
Moving Party: Defendant Total Quality
Logistics, LLC 
Responding Party: Plaintiff
Singleton Fisheries, Inc. dba Meridian Products 
 
T/R:    DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO DISMISS IS DENIED.
 
            DEFENDANT
to notice.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative,
please email the courtroom at¿SMCdept54@lacourt.org¿with notice
to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:30 am on the day of
the hearing.
            The Court
considers the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On December
22, 2023, Plaintiff Singleton Fisheries, Inc. dba Meridian Products sued
Defendants Total Quality Logistics, LLC, alleging causes of action for: (1)
breach of contract and (2) negligence. Plaintiff and Defendant entered a
contract concerning orders of logistical transport; Defendant was to ensure the
safe delivery of goods to Plaintiff’s customers. Plaintiff alleges that Plaintiff placed goods refrigerated
seafood with Defendant to transport by truck from California to New Jersey.
Defendant failed to maintain the refrigeration and the seafood was spoiled upon
delivery. 
 
            Before the Court
is Defendant’s motion to dismiss the complaint pursuant to CCP § 418.10. The
motion claims that the contract contains a mandatory forum selection clause
requiring this dispute to be litigated in state court in Clermont County, Ohio.
            
ANALYSIS
 
On or before the last day of his or her time to plead, a defendant
may file and serve a motion to stay or dismiss the action on the ground of
inconvenient forum. (CCP § 418.10(a)(2).) “[I]n cases with a contractual forum
selection clause, the burden of proof is on the plaintiff, the party resisting
the motion.” (Intershop Communications v. Superior Court (2002) 104
Cal.App.4th 191, 198.) “[T]he forum selection clause is presumed valid and will
be enforced unless the plaintiff shows that enforcement of the clause would be
unreasonable under the circumstances of the case.” (Ibid.) “The party’s
burden on a motion to enforce a mandatory forum selection clause is to
demonstrate that the contractually selected forum would be unavailable or
unable to accomplish substantial justice or that no rational basis exists for
the choice of forum.” (Id. at p. 199.) “Neither inconvenience nor the additional
expense of litigating in the selected forum is a factor to be considered.” (Ibid.)
“[A] forum selection clause will not be enforced if to do so would bring about
a result contrary to the public policy of this state.” (Id. at p. 200.) 
 
Usually, the party opposing a forum selection clause “bears the
burden to show enforcement would be unreasonable or unfair, [however] the
burden is reversed when the underlying claims are based on statutory rights the
Legislature has declared to be unwaivable.” (Verdugo v. Alliantgroup, L.P. (2015)
237 Cal.App.4th 141, 144.) “In that instance, the party seeking to enforce the
forum selection clause has the burden to show enforcement would not diminish
unwaivable statutory rights, otherwise a forum selection clause could be used
to force a plaintiff to litigate in another forum that may not apply California
law.” (Id. at p. 144-45.) 
 
“[T]he fundamental public policy of California indeed does mandate
reciprocal treatment of a unilateral contractual attorney fees provision.” (ABF
Capital Corp. v. Grove Properties Co. (2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 204, 214.) Civ.
Code § 1717 “make[s] reciprocal any provision awarding attorney’s fees
regardless of any wording purporting to make the right unilateral.” (Wilson’s
Heating & Air Conditioning v. Wells Fargo Bank (1988) 202 Cal.App.3d
1326, 1332.) “As a statutory modification of unilateral attorneys’ fees
provisions, section 1717 was designed to accomplish mutuality of remedy.” (Smith
v. Krueger (1983) 150 Cal.App.3d 752, 756.) 
 
The contract provides that “[t]he state courts located in Clermont
County, Ohio shall have exclusive and irrevocable jurisdiction and shall be the
exclusive venue with respect to any claim, counterclaim, dispute or lawsuit
arising in connection with any transactions, loads, or other business between
Total Quality Logistics and Customer.” (Bostwick Decl., ¶ 3; Exh. A at ¶ 11.) 
 
The parties do not dispute that the forum selection clause is
mandatory or that the forum selection clause covers the claims raised in the
complaint. Plaintiff contends that litigation in Ohio would deprive Plaintiff
of the right to reciprocal treatment under the attorney’s fees clause at issue,
which is held to be a fundamental California public policy. 
 
The attorney’s fees provision in the contract states that “[if] TQL
utilizes the services of a collection agency or attorney to collect any amounts
due, Customer agrees to pay all associated collection costs, attorney fees, and
court costs.” (Bostwick Decl., ¶ 3; Exh. A at ¶ 5.) In other words, if
Defendant uses an attorney or collection agency to collect any amounts due, Plaintiff
will be responsible for such collection costs, attorney fees, and court costs.
On its face, the attorney’s fees provision in the contract is unilateral. 
Plaintiff is suing Defendant pursuant to the contract. If this
Court were to dismiss this action and it is brought in Ohio, Defendant might
initiate a claim or counterclaim against Plaintiff court which would invoke the
attorney’s fees provision. 
 
The issue here is whether Ohio law provides for mutuality of remedy
for attorney’s fees. Neither Plaintiff nor Defendant have provided any legal
authority concerning reciprocity of attorney’s fees under Ohio law. Ohio courts
apparently will uphold a contractual agreement that contains a one-sided
attorney’s fees provision. (Wilborn v. Bank One Corp. (2009) 121 Ohio
St.3d 546, 548-549.) But the public policy of California mandates reciprocal
treatment of a unilateral attorney’s fees provision, under ABF Capital Corp.
v. Grove Properties Co., supra, 126 Cal.App.4th 204, 214.
 
Plaintiff seeks attorneys’ fees in the complaint. Enforcing the
forum selection clause in these circumstances is inappropriate. Defendant has
not shown that enforcing the forum selection clause would not diminish the
statutory rights set forth in Civ. Code § 1717. 
 
The motion to dismiss is DENIED. 


 