 Case Number:  23SMCV05901    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  I This is the continuation of a motion to compel
arbitration.  At the last hearing, the
court agreed with the moving party, Horne, that the retainer agreement Horne
and plaintiff signed contained an arbitration provision and that the provision
was broad enough to cover this complaint. 
But in response, plaintiff argued that there is an exception to the
general rules regarding arbitration where the plaintiff sues two parties and the
facts are intertwined enough so that the issues need to be decided together, not
separately, to avoid the danger of inconsistent determinations but only one
defendant has an arbitration agreement. 
That, plaintiff argued, is the case here because HCVT had no such
agreement.  In reply, Horne argued that
it provided legal advice but specifically did not provide any tax advice—and
that limitation was made express in the retainer agreement.  Horne stated that its work ended in 2019 but
HCVT was retained in 2021.  Therefore,
Horne argues, whatever tax issues might have arisen, it was not a situation in
which Horne and HCVT could be jointly responsible. 
 
The court ordered further briefing to determine whether, as
plaintiff suggested, Horne and HCVT worked together in 2021 to arrive at the
specific plan that led to the adverse tax consequences.  Both sides were given leave to submit
evidence showing the collaboration, or lack thereof, after HCVT was retained.
 
The court has reviewed that evidence.  It appears that Horne was part of a couple of
email chains in 2021 and asked some questions therein, and was involved in a
call.  But it is also clear that Horne’s
participation was narrow and fleeting and there is nothing that suggests that
Horne gave any tax advice or made any representations about the tax
consequences of the proposed plan (which the contract between Horne and
plaintiff expressly provided he would not do). 
Horne did not approve of the plan upon which HCVT and plaintiff agreed,
and it does not even appear that Horne commented on it.  It simply does not appear to the court that
Horne’s conduct was significant enough so that he and HCVT can be joint
tortfeasors such that the facts and legal theories are significantly
intertwined or that there will be a reasonable chance of inconsistent
determinations.  Critically, there is no
declaration that Horne took part in a substantive call where any tax
implications of any plan was discussed, that Horne sent over any written
comments on any tax or tax-related issue, that Horne was asked for advice on
any tax or tax-related issue (let alone that he gave it), or that Horne was
asked to approve any draft of the plan or even saw the final draft.  
 
The court is aware that the test for whether to deny the
motion is not whether a conflict will necessarily occur between the arbitration
award and the jury verdict, or even that it is likely to occur; the question is
only whether it is a realistic possibility. 
(Birl v. Heritage Care, LLC (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1313.)  But neither is it enough that the case
against each is from the same transaction or occurrence; the possibility of the
conflict must also be present.  Here, the
court is hard pressed to see how that could occur.  Given what appears to be a very minimal
involvement by Horne after 2019 and the contractual provision stating that he
would not give tax advice, it is hard to see how a jury would find Horne liable
(but render no verdict against Horne because Horne was in the arbitration) but
find HCVT not liable.  And if both are
liable, the liability will stem from Horne’s involvement in 2021 and would
undoubtedly be joint.  Accordingly, the
court is inclined to GRANT the motion and STAY the litigation as between Horne
and plaintiff pending arbitration.  That
said, however, the stay does not extend to any discovery involving Horne by
either HCVT or plaintiff to the extent that the discovery could be propounded were
Horne a third party.  And Horne’s
declaration is consistent with the foregoing. 
Interestingly, there is nothing to the contrary—no declaration from
anyone at Nexthome suggesting that Horne’s involvement was more
significant.  (If there were, the court
would be inclined to deny the motion; this is not really the time to resolve
contested facts and the court would be inclined to err on the side of avoiding
inconsistent judgments.)  In short, there
is just no “there there.”  (Gertrude
Stein, describing the Oakland of her childhood [and taken out of context], Everybondy’s
Autobiography, NewYork: Cooper Square, p. 289, originally published in 1937
but the page reference is to the 1971 edition.)
 
All of that said, the court will discuss with plaintiff (and
then Horne) the factual theoretical scenario under which inconsistent judgments
could actually occur.  If there is a
realistic possibility—even if not a probability and even if not even a high
possibility—that such could take place, the court will likely deny the
motion.  It is just that right now, as a
practical matter given these facts, the court does not see it.
 