..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the YAML summary of the judge's tentative ruling:

```
Case Number: 21STCV22508
Plaintiff's Name: Jay Hooper, UW International Corp., Crown Estate Holding LLC
Defendant's Name: John Alexander Gianoutsos Rigas, Ted Stavropoulos
People-Names: Jay Hooper, Ted Stavropoulos, John Alexander Gianoutsos Rigas, Rebecca Hooper
Company-Names: Mission n95 Holdings, LLC, UW International Corp., Crown Estate Holding LLC
Places: Los Angeles
Dates: June 11, 2020, December 29, 2020, February 15, 2024, June 21, 2024, July 5, 2024, August 21, 2024, September 3, 2024, November 1, 2024, December 17, 2024, December 23, 2024, December 31, 2024
Events: Business venture, formation of Mission n95 Holdings, LLC, procurement and provision of personal protective equipment, lawsuit, summary judgment, attorney's fees motion
Money: $394,264.17, $354,587.00
Intentions: Award attorney's fees to Stavropoulos
Facts: The parties formed a business venture to procure and provide personal protective equipment during the Covid-19 pandemic. The parties executed several agreements, including a General Agreement, a Mutual General Release Agreement, a Rescission Agreement, and an Employment Agreement. The parties also filed a lawsuit against each other, and summary judgment was granted in favor of the defendants.
Disputes: The parties dispute the amount of attorney's fees to be awarded to Stavropoulos
Acts: The parties executed several agreements, including a General Agreement, a Mutual General Release Agreement, a Rescission Agreement, and an Employment Agreement. The parties also filed a lawsuit against each other, and summary judgment was granted in favor of the defendants.
Agreements: General Agreement, Mutual General Release Agreement, Rescission Agreement, Employment Agreement
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure, California Civil Code, Civil Code, section 1717
Statutes: Civil Code, section 1717
Roles: Stavropoulos, Hooper, Rigas, UW, CEH
Significant Statements: The Court grants the motion for attorney's fees in the amount of $354,587.00. The Court finds that Stavropoulos is entitled to an award of attorney fees against Plaintiffs, including UW and CEH. The Court concludes that UW and CEH were bound by the December Agreements as alter egos of Hooper.
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge is considering a motion by defendant Ted Stavropoulos for an award of attorney's fees against plaintiffs Jay Hooper, UW International Corp., and Crown Estate Holding LLC. The amount of attorney's fees sought is $394,264.17. The judge has reviewed the evidence and has determined that Stavropoulos is entitled to an award of attorney fees against the plaintiffs, including UW and CEH. The judge has concluded that UW and CEH were bound by the December Agreements as alter egos of Hooper.

The judge has calculated the amount of attorney's fees to be awarded to Stavropoulos based on the evidence presented. The judge has found that the documented time spent by Stavropoulos's counsel in defending the action is reasonable. The judge has also taken into account the fact that Stavropoulos's requested fees are significantly less than the fees approved by the court for the defendants.

The judge has awarded Stavropoulos an amount of attorney fees in the amount of $354,587.00. The judge notes that the parties may point out any problems with the court's calculation if it is incorrect in any way. The judge also notes that correcting parties' math errors is not a good use of the court's resources.

The judge's tentative ruling is subject to change based on the parties' objections and any additional evidence that may be presented at the hearing.
