 Case Number:  24STCV11137    Hearing Date:   December 31, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



ENRIQUE MENA, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES, et al.
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No:  24STCV11137
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 31, 2024
 Calendar
  Number:  6



 
 
 
Defendant County of Los Angeles (“Defendant”)
moves to compel Plaintiff Enrique Mena (“Plaintiff”) to provide responses to Form
Interrogatories and Special Interrogatories, Set One, and moves for evidentiary
sanctions. 
 
Defendant’s motion to compel responses to Form
Interrogatories, Set One, is granted. 
Plaintiff shall provide verified responses within 30 days.
 
Defendant's motion to compel responses to
Special Interrogatories, Set One, is granted. 
Plaintiff shall provide verified responses within 30 days. 
 
The Court denies the request for evidentiary
sanctions.
 
Background
 
            Plaintiff was an inmate in the Men’s Central Jail,
under the custody and control of the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department.
(Complaint, ¶ GN-2.)  Plaintiff alleges
that Defendant owns and operates the Men’s Central Jail. (ibid.) Plaintiff further alleges on the morning of May
1, 2023, as Plaintiff was seated on his bunk bed inside of his locked cell, the
cell door opened abruptly and smashed into Plaintiff’s foot, causing serious
injuries. (Complaint, ¶¶ Prem.L-1, GN-1.) Plaintiff further alleges that a
Sherriff’s Deputy, responsible for door operations, failed to provide any
notice or warning before opening the cell doors, in violation of policy.
(Complaint, ¶ Prem.L-1.)
 
            On
May 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative complaint on Judicial Council form
PLD-PI-001, alleging causes of action for (1) premises liability and (2)
general negligence against Defendant and DOES 1 to 20. As to the first cause of
action for premises liability, Plaintiff alleges counts of (i) negligence, (ii)
willful failure to warn, and (iii) dangerous condition of public property. 
 
            On
November 13, 2024, Defendant filed this motion to compel Plaintiff’s responses
to Defendant’s Request for Form Interrogatories and Special Interrogatories,
Set One, served on Plaintiff on July 3, 2024. 
 
On December 19, 2024, counsel for Defendant
filed a notice Defendant’s non-opposition. (Declaration of Raymond J. Fuentes
(“Decl. of Fuentes, ¶ 8.”) As of December 24, 2024, the Court notes Plaintiff
has not filed any opposition prior to the motion hearing set for December 31,
2024.
 
 
Discussion
 
             Defendant moves to compel Plaintiff’s
responses to written discovery requests because Plaintiff failed to provide any
responses. Defendant served Form Interrogatories and Special Interrogatories,
Set One, on Plaintiff on July 3, 2024. (Declaration of Raymond J. Fuentes
(“Decl. of Fuentes”), ¶ 2; Exhibits A, B.) Plaintiff’s discovery responses were
initially due on August 4, 2024, but Defendant granted Plaintiff’s requests for
an extension of time to August 26, 2024 and October 4, 2024. (ibid., at
¶ 4, Exhibits, C-E.) Plaintiff’s counsel informed counsel for Defendant that
they have lost contact with Plaintiff. (ibid., at Exhibit E.) On October
4, 2024, Plaintiff delivered unverified responses to the Form Interrogatories
and Special Interrogatories. (ibid., at ¶ 5.) On October 4, 2024,
Defendant informed counsel for Plaintiff that the unverified responses were
insufficient, and requested a letter response, or the submission of verified
responses by November 1, 2024. (ibid, at Exhibit E.) No response was received.
(ibid., at ¶ 4.) Here, Plaintiff has failed to timely comply this its
discovery obligation because they have failed to provide timely responses to
discovery.  
Accordingly, Plaintiff is ordered
to provide verified responses to Defendant’s Requests for Form Interrogatories
and Special Interrogatories, Set One, within 30 days of this ruling.
The Court denies the request for
evidentiary sanctions. Defendant does not specify what sort of evidentiary
sanctions would be appropriate. 
Moreover, the Court does not believe such sanctions to be appropriate
under the current circumstances.