 Case Number:  24STCV20682    Hearing Date:   December 31, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



ANNA KIRAKOSYAN,
  an individual; STAR WORLD, LLC, a California Limited Liability Company, 
 
                                  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
VALENCIA B.
  IMPORTS, INC. a Delaware company, and doing business as VALENCIA BMW; and
  DOES 1 to 20, inclusive.
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No:  24STCV20682
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 31, 2024
 Calendar
  Number:  7



 
 
On November 6, 2024, Defendant filed the instant
petition to compel arbitration and for an order to dismiss or stay proceedings
pending arbitration. On December 17, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition. On
December 23, 2024, Defendant filed a reply.
 
The Court grants the Defendant’s petition to
compel arbitration and stay this case. 
The Court sets a status conference re arbitration for July 30, 2026 at
8:30 a.m..
 
Background
 
            This case concerns the sale of a 2019 Cadillac
Escalade (the Vehicle) that is alleged to have been previously reported as
stolen. (Compl., ¶ 20.) 
 
            On
August 14, 2024, Plaintiffs Anna Kirakosyan (Ms. Kirakosyan) and Star World,
LLC (Star World) (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed a complaint against Defendant
Valencia B. Imports, Inc. dba Valencia BMW (Defendant) alleging causes of
action for (1) Rescission of Contract, (2) Breach of Contract, (3) Negligence,
(4) Violation of Penal Code § 496, (5) Violation of Business and Professions
Code §§ 17200, et seq., and (6) Declaratory Relief.
 
Legal Standard
 
            Under Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2, a
court may order arbitration of a controversy if it finds that the parties have
agreed to arbitrate that dispute. Because the obligation to arbitrate arises
from contract, the court may compel arbitration only if the dispute in question
is one in which the parties have agreed to arbitrate. (Weeks v. Crow
(1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 352.) Since arbitration is a favored method of
dispute resolution, arbitration agreements should be liberally interpreted, and
arbitration should be ordered unless the agreement clearly does not apply to
the dispute in question. (Id. at p. 353; Segal v. Silberstein
(2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 627, 633.) 
 
Discussion
 
Existence of a
Valid Arbitration Agreement
 
“Arbitration
is a matter of contract.” (Metalclad Corp. v. Ventana Env't Organizational
P'ship (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 1705, 1711.) “General principles of
contract law determine whether the parties have entered a binding agreement to
arbitrate.” (Craig v. Brown & Root, Inc., 84 Cal.App.4th 416, 420
(2000); Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc., 15 Cal.4th 951,
971-72 (1997).) “In determining whether an arbitration agreement exists, we
apply the same rules of contract formation as for any other contract.” (Weeks
v. Interactive Life Forms, LLC (2024) 100 Cal.App.5th 1077, 1084.) 
Under the California law,
arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, except on such
grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding a contract. (Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc.
(2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) The party moving to compel arbitration must
establish the existence of a written arbitration agreement between the parties.
(Code of Civ. Proc. Section 1281.2.) In ruling on a motion to compel
arbitration, the court must first determine whether the parties agreed to arbitrate
the dispute, and general principles of California contract law help guide the
court in making this determination. (Mendez
v. Mid-Wilshire Health Care Center (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 534, 541.)
Once petitioners allege
that an arbitration agreement exists, the burden shifts to respondents to prove
the falsity of the purported agreement, and no evidence or authentication is
required to find the arbitration agreement exists. (See Condee v. Longwood Mgt. Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219.)
However, if the existence of the agreement is challenged, "petitioner
bears the burden of proving [the arbitration agreement's] existence by a
preponderance of the evidence." (Rosenthal
v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413. See also
Espejo v. Southern California Permanente
Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1058-1060.)  
“With respect to the
moving party's burden to provide evidence of the existence of
an agreement to arbitrate, it is generally sufficient for that party to present
a copy of the contract to the court.” (Baker
v. Italian Maple Holdings, LLC (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 1152, 1160). “A
petition to compel arbitration or to stay proceedings pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure sections 1281.2 and 1281.4 must state, in addition to other required
allegations, the provisions of the written agreement and the paragraph that provides
for arbitration. The provisions must be stated verbatim or a copy must be
physically or electronically attached to the petition and incorporated by
reference.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1330.) “Once such a document is
presented to the court, the burden shifts to the party opposing the motion to
compel, who may present any challenges to the enforcement of the agreement and
evidence in support of those challenges.’ (Baker,
supra, 13 Cal.App.5th at p. 1160.)
A.    Ms.
Kirakosyan
            Defendant has met its
burden in providing evidence of the existence of an arbitration agreement as to
Ms. Kirakosyan. Indeed, Plaintiffs do not dispute that Ms. Kirakosyan signed
the arbitration agreement.
            Here, on October 9,
2019, Plaintiffs executed the RISC with Defendant, who was the dealer, for the
purchase of the Vehicle at issue. (Compl., ¶ 24, Exhibit A.) On the first page
of the RISC, which is titled in full “Retail Installment Sale Contract – Simple
Finance Charge (With Arbitration Provision),” there is a box that states
“Agreement to Arbitrate.” This box states, “By signing below, you agree that,
pursuant to the Arbitration Provision on page 7 of this contract, you or we may
elect to resolve any dispute by neutral, binding arbitration and not by court
action. See Arbitration Provision for additional information concerning the
agreement to Arbitration” (Id., Exhibit A; Marrone Decl., Exhibit 1.)
The entirety of the Arbitration Provision located on page 7 of the RISC states
in pertinent part:
1.      EITHER
YOU OR WE MAY CHOOSE TO HAVE ANY DISPUTE BETWEEN US DECIDED BY ARBITRATION AND
NOT IN COURT OR BY JURY TRIAL. 
2.      IF
A DISPUTE IS ARBITRATED, YOU WILL GIVE UP YOUR RIGHT TO PARTICIPATE AS A CLASS
REPRESENTATIVE OR CLASS MEMBER ON ANY CLASS CLAIM YOU MAY HAVE AGAINST US
INCLUDING ANY RIGHT TO CLASS ARBITRATION OR ANY CONSOLIDATION OF INDIVIDUAL
ARBITRATIONS. 
3.      DISCOVERY
AND RIGHTS TO APPEAL IN ARBITRATION ARE GENERALLY MORE LIMITED THAN IN A
LAWSUIT, AND OTHER RIGHTS THAT YOU AND WE WOULD HAVE IN COURT MAY NOT BE
AVAILABLE IN ARBITRATION. 
 
Any
claim or dispute, whether in contract, tort, statute or otherwise (including
the interpretation and scope of this Arbitration Provision, and the
arbitrability of the claim or dispute), between you and us or our employees,
agents, successors or assigns, which arises out of or relates to your credit
application, purchase or condition of this vehicle, this contract or any
resulting transaction or relationship (including any such relationship with
third parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at your or our election, be
resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court action […]
(Compl., Exhibit A; Marrone Decl., Exhibit 1.)
            Ms. Kirakosyan provided
her signature both under the box that states, “Agreement to Arbitrate” and on
the bottom of page 7, which contains the Arbitration Provision in full. (Compl.,
Exhibit A; Marrone Decl., Exhibit 1.) Further, Plaintiffs, in their complaint,
allege that “Plaintiffs and Defendants entered into a written
contract for purchase of what seemed to be a 2019 Chevrolet Suburban.” (Compl.,
¶ 24.) 
Additionally, Plaintiffs
do dispute that the current action with Defendant would fall within the
language of the RISC and its Arbitration Provision, given that the Arbitration
Provision explicitly states that “any claim or dispute . . . between you and us
or our employees . . . which arises out of or relates to your . . . purchase .
. . of this vehicle . . . shall, at your or our election, be resolved . . . by
arbitration.” (Compl., Exhibit A; Marrone Decl., Exhibit 1.) 
Based on the foregoing, Ms.
Kirakosyan is compelled to arbitrate her claims against Defendant.  
B.   
Star World 
Defendant has met its burden in
providing evidence of the existence of an arbitration agreement as to Star World, the successor-in-interest to
ZLS Trans LLC (ZLS).
Here, Plaintiffs allege in
the complaint that ZLS was
initially a co-buyer of the Vehicle, but later transferred its interest to Star
World in or about 2020. (Compl., ¶ 2.) Ms. Kirakosyan, in signing
the RISC, also signed on behalf of ZLS as a co-buyer. (Compl., Exhibit A; Marrone Decl., Exhibit 1.) 
“Generally
speaking, one must be a party to an arbitration agreement to be bound by it.
‘The strong public policy in favor of arbitration does not extend to those who
are not parties to an arbitration agreement, and a party cannot be compelled to
arbitrate a dispute that he has not agreed to resolve by arbitration. (Citation.) There are three exceptions to
the rule: (1) an agent can bind a principal, (2) spouses can bind each other,
and (3) a parent can bind a minor child. (Citation.)” (Monschke v. Timber Ridge Assisted Living, LLC (2016) 244
Cal.App.4th 583, 586–87.) 
            Plaintiffs
contend that Ms. Kirakosyan did not have the authority to act or sign on behalf
of ZLS, and that Defendant has not met its burden in showing that an agency
relationship exists between Ms. Kirakosyan and ZLS. Specifically, Plaintiffs
contend Ms. Kirakosyan “has never been associated with ZLS” and has never been
“an officer, director or employee of ZLS,”
and proffer ZLS’s Articles of Incorporation and the Statements of Information,
which have no mention of Ms. Kirakosyan, in support. (Opposition, page 5
Kirakosyan Decl., ¶ 2, Exhibit A.) 
            However, Defendant has provided evidence that Ms.
Kirakosyan was acting as an agent on behalf of ZLS with the approval of the
chief executive officer (“CEO”) of ZLS. A person named Artak Zargaryan is
listed as CEO, chief financial officer, and secretary of ZLS in the statement
information filed with the Secretary of State by ZLS. (Abramson Decl. Ex. 3.) Plaintiffs
admit Mr. Zargaryan was CEO and Director of ZLS in 2023 and 2024. (Opposition,
page 5.) 
 
When
purchasing the Vehicle, Ms. Kirakosyan executed a BMW Financial Services
Business Credit Application (Credit Application). (Abramson Decl., ¶ 5, Exhibit
1.) In the Credit Application, Ms. Kirakosyan represented to Defendant that she
was ZLS’s Secretary. (Id. ¶ 5, Exhibit 1.) 
 
Mr.
Zargaryan, the CEO of ZLS, signed a later portion of the same credit
application in which Ms. Kirakosyan identified herself as the secretary of ZLS.  Specifically, in the credit application, Mr.
Zargaryan, along with Ms. Kirakosyan, executed a “Certified Resolution for
Business Entity” on behalf of ZLS. (Abramson Decl. Ex. 1.)  (See Snukal v. Flightways Mfg., Inc. (2000)
23 Cal.4th 754, 78 780 [at common law, presentation of a certified copy of
resolution of corporation’s board of directors authorizing officer to execute a
contract created a presumption of authority on behalf of the officer to execute
it].) 
 
This evidence demonstrates
a sufficient relationship between Ms. Kirakosyan and ZLS, contrary to
Plaintiffs’ assertion. Furthermore, given that ZLS acquired the Vehicle and
then transferred its interest to Star World, ZLS has accepted the benefit of
the RISC. Thus, ZLS is estopped from denying Ms. Kirakosyan’s authority to
enter into the RISC on ZLS’s behalf. (See Snukal, supra, 23 Cal.4th at
p. 779-80 [proof that contract is binding on corporation can be met by
showing that “the corporation is
estopped to deny his [or her] authority
by reason of having accepted the benefit of the contract or otherwise.
(Citation.)”].) 
Based on the foregoing,
Star World is also compelled to arbitrate its claims against Defendant.
Thus, the burden shifts to Plaintiffs to present any challenges to the
enforceability of the RISC and its Arbitration Provision.
Enforceability 
            Plaintiffs dispute the
enforceability of the RISC and its attached Arbitration Provision on the basis
that Plaintiffs have sufficiently shown grounds for the rescission of the RISC,
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2, subdivision (b). 
            Under both federal and state law, arbitration
agreements are valid and enforceable, unless they are unenforceable due to
reasons under state law that would promote its unenforceability, such as fraud,
duress, and unconscionability. (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 98.) Under Code of
Civil Procedure section 1281.2, subdivision (b), the Court shall grant a
petition to compel arbitration “if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate
the controversy exists, unless it determines that . . . (b) Grounds exist for
rescission of the agreement.” Thus, a “petition to compel arbitration is not to be
granted when there are grounds for rescinding the agreement.” (Engalla v. Permanente Med. Grp., Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951,
973.) 
            Plaintiffs contend that because
they have stated a valid claim for rescission of the RISC, arbitration cannot
be compelled based on the RISC. However, once the Court has found that a valid
arbitration agreement exists, the “party opposing the petition bears the burden
of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its
defense.” (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Grp. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th
836, 842.) Thus, “[t]he trial court sits as the trier of fact, weighing all the
affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, and any oral
testimony the court may receive at its discretion, to reach a final
determination.” (Ibid.) 
It is now Plaintiffs’
burden to show by a preponderance of the evidence that the RISC should be
rescinded. Plaintiffs argue a contract for the sale of stolen property is not
enforceable, as it violates basic principles of contract, and selling or
receiving stolen property violates Penal Code section 496. (Opposition, page
3.) However, Plaintiffs have provided the Court with no evidence supporting
their claim for rescission other than the allegations contained in their
complaint. Ms. Kirakosyan’s Declaration does not mention or support Plaintiffs’
claim for rescission or other facts relevant to this issue. Plaintiffs have
also not provided evidence to substantiate their reliance on Penal Code section
496, which deals with receipt of stolen property but contains a criminal level
knowledge requirement. 
Thus, the Court concludes that Plaintiffs’ have
not met their burden in establishing a defense to the RISC, and its Arbitration
Provision, by a preponderance of the evidence.    