 Case Number:  24STCV22001    Hearing Date:   December 31, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



VICTOR WALKER, et al.,
 
                                  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
E&S RING MANAGEMENT CORP., et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No:  24STCV22001
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 31, 2024
 Calendar
  Number:  8



 
 
 
Defendant E&S Ring Management Corporation
(“Defendant”) moves to relate and consolidate 18 separate actions, all of which
are pending in different departments of the Los Angeles Superior Court.   
 
The Court declines to
relate the 18 separate actions and, accordingly, DENIES the motion to
consolidate.  
 
Background
 
            On August 28, 2024, Plaintiffs Victor Walker, Amber Ferraro,
Andrew Ashton, Edward Brizio, Jessica O’Connor, Princess Pancubit, and Jerard
Evans filed the current action against Defendant and Does 1 through 10 in Victor
Walker, et al. v. E&S Ring Management Corp., LASC Case No.
24STCV22001 (the “Walker Action”). The complaint alleges causes of action for:
(1) violations of the Investigative Consumer Reporting Agencies Act (“ICRAA”);
(2) failure to provide receipt for tenant screening; and (3) declaratory
relief. 
 
            Plaintiffs
allege that, in 2022 through 2024, and within the applicable statute of
limitations, Plaintiffs applied for housing at various apartment complexes and
completed a mandatory multi-page “Application.” (Compl., ¶ 18.) Defendant
requested that Plaintiffs pay an application fee in connection with their
applications, which Plaintiffs tendered to Defendant and Defendant accepted.
(Compl., ¶ 19.) Defendant used a portion of each application fee to pay for
investigative consumer reports about the Plaintiffs. (Compl., ¶ 21.) Defendant
procured at least two investigative consumer reports about each plaintiff.
(Compl., ¶ 22.) Defendant did not provide a means by which Plaintiffs could
indicate that he or she wished to receive a copy of any report prepared in
connection with the application. (Compl., ¶ 23.) Defendant also did not provide
a consent form or disclosure form with a box to check and did not agree to
provide a copy of any of the reports prepared about the Plaintiffs. (Compl., ¶¶
23, 24.) Plaintiffs allege that Defendant intentionally violated the ICRAA.
(Compl., ¶ 25.) 
 
Defendant did not want the tenants or
prospective tenants to know about or have access to any confidential consumer
reports. (Compl., ¶ 26.) Defendant acted in a manner, therefore, that was and
is willful and grossly negligent. (Ibid.) They failed to comply with any
of the requirements of the statute. 
(Compl., ¶ 27.)  Defendant failed
to provide a copy of the report to the Plaintiff.  (Compl., ¶ 32.)  Plaintiffs “suffered damages in an amount
according to proof at trial, including but not limited to emotional distress,
invasion of privacy, injury, denial of the reports to which they have a
statutory right, and harm to property interests.” (Compl., ¶ 33.)  Plaintiffs alternatively seek statutory
damages of $10,000 per report. (Compl., ¶ 34.) Plaintiffs seek injunctive and
declaratory relief. (Compl., ¶¶ 37, 44-47.) 
Among other things, Plaintiffs seek restitution, punitive damages, and
attorney’s fees. (Compl., Request for Relief.)
 
            On
October 17, 2024, in the Walker Action, Defendant filed an answer.  
 
            On
November 27, 2024, Defendant filed and served a notice of related case seeking
to relate the Walker Action to the following actions: (1) Yulissa Martinez,
et al. v. E&S Ring Management Corp., LASC Case No. 24STCV22296 (the
“Martinez Action”); (2) Jacob Berkman, et al. v. E&S Ring
Management Corp., LASC Case No. 24STCV23299 (the “Berkman Action”); (3) Kila
Hoomana, et al. v. E&S Ring Management Corp., LASC Case
No. 24STCV23039 (the “Hoomana Action”); (4) Ebony Jones, et al. v. E&S
Ring Management Corp., LASC Case No. 24STCV23876 (the “Jones Action”); (5) Sheena
Avena, et al. v. E&S Ring Management Corp., LASC Case No.
24STCV24197 (the “Avena Action”); (6) Nikita Kalustov, et al. v.
E&S Ring Management Corp., LASC Case No. 24STCV24543 (the “Kalustov
Action”); (7) Mark Dulgerian, et al. v. E&S Ring Management Corp.,
LASC Case No. 24STCV24891 (the “Dulgerian Action”); (8) Mick Groth,
et al. v. E&S Ring Management Corp., LASC Case No. 24SMCV04790 (the
“Groth Action”); (9) Ejeogba Iyam, et al. v. E&S Ring Management
Corp., LASC Case No. 24STCV25535 (the “Iyam Action”); (10) Sabrina Bacon,
et al. v. E&S Ring Management Corp., LASC Case No. 24STCV25946 (the
“Bacon Action”); (11) Emilie Mateu, et al. v. E&S Ring
Management Corp., LASC Case No. 24STCV26239 (the “Mateu Action”); (12) Sean
Grasse, et al. v. E&S Ring Management Corp., LASC Case No.
24STCV26658 (the “Grasse Action”); (13) Michael Adams, et al. v.
E&S Ring Management Corp., LASC Case No. 24STCV27292 (the “Adams
Action”); (14) Luke Carr, et al. v. E&S Ring Management Corp.,
LASC Case No. 24STCV28194 (the “Carr Action”); (15) Gia Witt, et al.
v. E&S Ring Management Corp., LASC Case No. 24SMCV05510 (the “Witt
Action”); (16) Steven Cooper, et al. v. E&S Ring Management Corp.,
LASC Case No. 24STCV29992 (the “Cooper Action”); and (17) Morgan Lindsey,
et al. v. E&S Ring Management Corp., LASC Case No. 24SMCV05543 (the
“Lindsey Action”). 
            
            The
Walker Action was filed first in time and before the other actions. 
 
            On
December 3, 2024, in the Walker Action, Defendant filed and served the instant
Motion to Relate and Consolidate Cases. Defendant seeks an order deeming the Walker Action, Martinez Action, Berkman Action, Hoomana
Action, Jones Action, Avena Action, Kalustov Action, Dulgerian Action, Groth
Action, Iyam Action, Bacon Action, Mateu Action, Grasse Action, Adams Action,
Carr Action, Witt Action, Cooper Action, and Lindsey Action as related, and
also seeks an order consolidating such cases for all purposes including trial.  
 
            On
December 17, 2024, the plaintiffs in the Walker Action filed an opposition brief.

 
            On
December 20, 2024, Defendant filed a reply brief. 
 
            Initially,
the Court notes that the memorandum of points and authorities in support of the
motion is 34 pages in length. “Except in a summary judgment or summary
adjudication motion, no opening or responding memorandum may exceed 15 pages.”
(Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.1113(d).) “A party may apply to the court ex parte but
with written notice of the application to the other parties, at least 24 hours
before the memorandum is due, for permission to file a longer memorandum. The
application must state reasons why the argument cannot be made within the
stated limit.” (Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.1113(e).) “A memorandum that exceeds the
page limits of these rules must be filed and considered in the same manner as a
late-filed paper.” (Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.1113(g).) A court has discretion to
consider a late-filed paper. (Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.1300(d).) 
 
            Defendant
did not file an ex parte application to file a memorandum exceeding 15
pages. The moving papers are 19 pages beyond the page limits set forth in Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1113(d). Defendant should have moved ex parte under
Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1113(d) to file a longer memorandum. The Court,
however, will consider Defendant’s memorandum of points and authorities in its
entirety. Defendant is admonished to follow the requirements of the California
Rules of Court. 
 
            The
Court also rejects Plaintiffs’ argument that the motion fails to comply with
the rules for a motion to consolidate cases because Defendant failed to file a
notice of motion in each of the cases in which consolidation is sought. (Opp’n
at p. 5:20-6-2; Decl. of Glenn A. Murphy in Opposition to the Motion (“Murphy
Decl.”) at ¶ 4.) The Court has reviewed the electronic case files in each of
the aforementioned cases and Defendant did, in fact, file a copy of the notice
of motion in each of the aforementioned cases. Moreover, Defendant’s counsel
attests to satisfying such requirement. (Fleissner Reply Decl., ¶ 20.)
Defendant therefore has complied with the rule that a notice of motion to
consolidate must “[b]e filed in each case sought to be consolidated.” (Cal. R. Ct.,
Rule 3.350(a)(1)(C).) 
             
Legal Standard
 
             Cases are related when they (1) involve the
same parties and are based on the same or similar claims, (2) arise from the
same or substantially identical transactions, incidents, or events requiring
the determination of the same or substantially identical questions of law or
fact, (3) involve claims against, title to, possession of, or damages to the
same property, or (4) are likely for other reasons to require substantial
duplication of judicial resources if heard by different judges. (Cal. R. Ct.,
rule 3.300(a).)
 
“When actions involving a common question of law
or fact are pending before the court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of
any or all the matters in issue in the actions; it may order all the actions
consolidated and it may make such orders concerning proceedings therein as may
tend to avoid unnecessary costs or delay.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd.
(a).) “The court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when
separate trials will be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a separate
trial of any cause of action, including a cause of action asserted in a
cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any number of causes of action
or issues, preserving the right of a trial by jury required by the Constitution
or a statute of this state or of the United States.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048,
subd. (b).)
 
Los Angeles County Court Rules, Rule 3.3(g)(1)
provides that “[c]ases may not be consolidated unless they are in the same
department. A motion to consolidate two or more cases may be noticed and heard
after the cases, initially filed in different departments, have been related in
a single department, or if the cases were already assigned to that department.”
 
Discussion
 
            Appropriateness
of Relating the Cases  
 
            The
Court has reviewed the complaints filed in the Walker Action, Martinez Action,
Berkman Action, Hoomana Action, Jones Action, Avena Action, Kalustov Action,
Dulgerian Action, Groth Action, Iyam Action, Bacon Action, Mateu Action, Grasse
Action, Adams Action, Carr Action, Witt Action, Cooper Action, and Lindsey
Action, which are attached to the declaration of Defendant’s counsel,
Christopher J. Fleissner (“Fleissner”), in support of the motion. (Fleissner
Decl., ¶¶ 2-19; Exs. 1-18.) The complaints contain the same causes of action
except the complaints in the Martinez Action, Berkman Action, Hoomana Action,
Cooper Action, and Lindsey Action add an additional cause of action for
invasion of privacy. The complaints accuse Defendant of procuring investigative
consumer reports about plaintiffs without complying with the ICRAA. 
 
            While
these 18 separate actions assert similar legal claims, the Court does not find
them to be related within the meaning of Local Rule 3.300(a) for the following
reasons:
 
1.      The cases do not involve the same
parties.  There are 203 separate
plaintiffs in these 18 actions.  None of
the cases have overlapping plaintiffs.
2.      The cases do not involve the same properties.
The complaints involve different prospective tenancies at various apartment or
housing complexes.
3.      Simply put, the cases do not
involve the same facts. In each case, the court will have to determine whether
a violation of the ICRAA occurred with respect to the particular plaintiffs who
are asserting the claims.
4.      The cases do not involve the same
claim for compensatory damages. The complaint here alleges that plaintiffs seek
“damages in an amount according
to proof at trial” including, for example, emotional distress damages. The
entitlement of plaintiffs to compensatory damages and the calculation of the
amount of the compensatory damages is a highly specific case-by-case inquiry.
5.      The cases do not involve the same claims for
other relief.  Plaintiffs’ entitlement to
punitive damages, for example, will differ from case to case.
6.      The claims are not the same. As noted, some of
the cases, unlike the Walker Action, seek damages for invasion of privacy in
addition to the claims asserted in the Walker Action.
 
Defendant’s desire to have all of
the ICRAA claims against it adjudicated in a single case is
understandable.  The differences between
the cases, however, are substantial.  The
California Rules of Court do not require a single court to become the sole
adjudicator of every ICRAA claim against a particular defendant.  The Court does not find that these 18 cases
are related.
 
            Appropriateness
of Consolidating the Cases 
 
A court may only consolidate cases
that are pending before it. Because the Court has declined to relate these
cases, the Court cannot consolidate the cases, which are pending in different
departments of the Los Angeles County Superior Court.  For this reason, the motion is denied.