  Case Number:  22SMCV01481    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  I This is a case involving an unrecorded covenant.  Essentially, a long while back (in 1997),
there was a dispute as between property owners. 
The dispute was settled by allowing development in many places, but
requiring that one lot, Lot 7, not be developed.  The agreement was placed in the CC&R’s
for the community, but it was not recorded even though the agreement required
that there be recordation.  The reason
for recordation is obvious; anyone buying Lot 7 would and should be bound by
the agreement.  That means that Lot 7 is
far less valuable than the surrounding lots, where development is allowed.  Plaintiff bought Lot 7, but allegedly did not
know that it could not be developed. 
Plaintiff Reith sued the seller, West Pointe, for failing to disclose
that fact.  Eventually, West Pointe sued
San Diego Land Investments (SDLI) and Maple Tree for equitable indemnity.  SDLI and Maple Tree were the general partners
of Saddle Peak Associates, which was a party to the earlier agreement.  Saddle Peak sold the property to defendant
West Pointe in 1998.  West Pointe sold it
to plaintiff many years later.  West
Pointe seeks indemnity from SDLI and Maple Tree, arguing it is really their
fault for not recording the document in the first place.  SDLI and Maple Tree demur.     
 
The principal argument is that there is no equitable
indemnity here because the parties are not joint tortfeasors.  Equitable indemnity generally arises where
two parties are at fault for a single injury, usually in tort.  In that circumstance, one of the parties can
seek indemnity from the other to be sure that neither pays more than its
share.  In some cases, the indemnity is
complete—one party is principally liable and ought to pay the whole of the
damage (either directly to the plaintiff or by reimbursing the other
defendant), and sometimes it is partial. 
But the key is joint and several liability to the plaintiff.  Here, defendants (by which the court means
SDLI and Maple Tree) contend that they will never be liable to plaintiff
because they are not being sued by plaintiff and the reason that they are not
being sued by plaintiff is because plaintiff has no basis to sue them.  They argue that they had no duty in
tort to plaintiff, so they cannot be a joint tortfeasor or any kind of
tortfeasor.  They sold the property way
back in 1998—decades before the allegations plaintiff raises even came to pass.
 
West Pointe also argues for contractual indemnity.  Implied contractual indemnity arises where
there is a contractual duty that is owed between the indemnitors to each other,
the breach of which caused harm to the common plaintiff.  Here, defendants contend that there is no
relevant contractual duty between them and West Pointe, and none that resulted
in the harm to plaintiff.  The original contract
(which is the one with the duty to record) was between Saddle Peak and others,
but not West Pointe.  The 1998 purchase
contract is the contract between Saddle Peak and West Pointe; plaintiff was
nowhere to be found and it did not speak of a duty to record the limitation on
Lot 7.  The later contract was between
West Pointe and plaintiff; defendants were not parties to that contract.  Thus, the only contract in which West Pointe
and defendants were actually in privity was the 1998 land sale contract, but
there was no breach of that contract by anyone alleged.
 
Finally, defendants argue that the indemnity cause of action
is premature because no liability has yet been assessed.  As to this latter point, the court
disagrees.  Where a party who would be
entitled to indemnity is being sued, that party can cross complain against the
indemnitors even before the underlying suit is resolved.  
 
In opposition, West Pointe argues that it was defendants
that created the problem by failing to record the agreement that Lot 7 not be
developed, as they (or Saddle Peak, the entity of which they were general
partners) had a duty under the agreement to do. 
Had defendants done so, West Pointe states, none of this would have
happened because plaintiff would have knowledge (constructive knowledge at a
minimum) of the restriction and could sue no one.  West Pointe seems to concede the equitable
indemnity in tort point, or at least it does not contest it.  Rather, West Pointe argues that it was an
intended third party beneficiary under the original agreement back in 1997, or
at least whether it was or was not is a fact question that cannot be resolved
now.  The court has not seen a direct
California appellate case holding that a third party beneficiary can bring a
contractual indemnity cause of action against the contracting parties, although
some federal cases have so held applying California law.  Those cases suggest that in such a
circumstance, the contracting parties agree to perform certain tasks for the
benefit of third parties as well as one another.  Logic dictates, those cases hold, that a
third party beneficiary being sued by another can seek indemnity from the
contracting parties where their performance under the contract (or lack
thereof) is what caused the injury. 
Accordingly, West Pointe argues, it is being sued by plaintiff relating
to its sale of the property to plaintiff but to the extent that West Pointe is
liable, defendants were the cause by virtue of their failure to record the
CC&R’s as they were required to do back in 1997 or so.  West Pointe contends that it is a third party
beneficiary under that 1997 contract, and thus can obtain indemnity for the
defendants’ failure to perform the acts required therein, which (they argue)
were to be performed for their benefit. 
The court generally agrees with this principle of law: an intended third
party beneficiary who is sued because of the failure of a contracting party to
perform can seek indemnity from the contracting parties where that failure is
the precise risk that performance would have avoided.  The bigger problem here is whether West
Pointe is an intended third party beneficiary.
 
To be an intended third party beneficiary under a contract,
the alleged beneficiary must show that benefitting that party was a motivating
purpose of the contracting parties, and that intention must be clearly
manifest.  Here, defendants argue, there
is no such possibility.  The contract in
question is the 1997 agreement—that is the only contract in which defendants
have a duty to record anything restricting Lot 7.  And it is conceded that West Pointe is not a
named party to that contract.  Further,
the contract has a “no third party beneficiary” clause.  While it is possible that there is an
intended third party beneficiary notwithstanding such a clause, the clause
makes West Pointe’s path a harder one. 
West Pointe does not question that the motivating purpose of the
agreement was to resolve a dispute between adjacent property owners.  The settlement essentially gave one of the
parties—a restaurant—the right to limit development on one of the parcels,
which had the effect of making the restaurant’s view much more pristine.  In return, other parcels could be
developed.  (There were lots of other
provisions as well.)  The restriction on
development of Lot 7 was to run with the land, and hence the restriction was to
be recorded.  The problem the court has
with West Pointe’s argument is how the motivating purpose of that agreement was
to benefit future owners of Lot 7.  The
agreement burdens Lot 7 with significant restrictions—it hardly provides a
benefit to future owners.  And while it
is probably fair to say that West Pointe was an intended third party obligor in
the sense that the limits on Lot 7 were designed to bind future owners like
West Pointe, the third party beneficiary doctrine does not work that way.  West Pointe obtained no benefit—intended
or unintended—from the contract other than, perhaps, knowledge that it would
not be sued by the restaurant so long as the covenants were maintained (and
West Pointe does not claim it was deprived of that particular benefit).
 
West Pointe’s response is that the agreement gave future
owners of the property cooperation with the Monte Nido HOA and certainty
because things would be recorded. 
Further, exhibit M to the 1997 agreement (the CC&R’s) states that
the CC&R’s bind all future owners of the property (which, of course, is
what CC&Rs do).  And Saddle Peak’s
later 1998 agreement with West Pointe states that West Pointe is aware of the HOA
and would abide by the agreement and cooperate with the HOA.  That, West Pointe argues, shows that it was a
third party beneficiary of the 1997 agreement even though it was not a named
party to it.  West Pointe pooh-poohs the
no third party beneficiary clause as a generic throwaway clause that the
parties did not really mean.  West Pointe
argues that this boilerplate clause cannot control over the more specific parts
of the contract.  The court is skeptical
of that argument.  The cases in which
these clauses have not held sway are generally cases where the contract is
pretty express about the rights of third parties under the contract.  Where a contract expressly provides a third
party with a specific right, it is hard to say that the third party with an
express right is not a third party beneficiary, irrespective of the more
general clause.  The problem here is that
the rights that were supposedly given to future owners (like West Pointe) are
not so concrete as in those cases.  It is
more like the rights (or obligations) that any subsequent landowner would have
when owning land.  Further, the source of
the argument is not the contract itself, but rather Exhibit M to the contract,
which is the CC&R’s.  It is far more
of a stretch than the case law cited thus far. 
The 1997 Agreement on its face simply does not support the notion that
West Pointe was an intended third party beneficiary or that benefitting West
Pointe as a future owner was a motivating purpose behind the agreement.  Contract interpretation is, of course, a
question of law for the court; it is not a question of fact.  Even so, the court’s discretion is far more
circumspect on demurrer than it would be on summary judgment.  On summary judgment, unless there is parol
evidence that is in dispute (such as whether a particular conversation
occurred), the court can interpret the contract even by choosing an inference
that favors the party moving for summary judgment over another reasonable
inference favoring the opposing party. 
But on demurrer, the court cannot do that.  Rather, the court has to ask whether there might
be parol evidence that could render the contract susceptible to plaintiff’s
interpretation.  If there might be such
evidence, then on demurrer the court must presume it.  The problem the court has is that it cannot
think of what that evidence might be. 
The no third party beneficiary clause is clear and straightforward.  West Pointe’s argument is that there might be
parol evidence that would lead the court to disregard that clause
entirely.  However, disregarding a clause
is different than interpreting it.  Or
West Pointe might be arguing that there is parol evidence that would lead the
court to conclude that the clause means that there are no third party
beneficiaries other than future owners of Lot 7.  That still sounds a lot like re-writing the
contract.  But even if it were not, the
court is having a lot of trouble understanding where that evidence would come
from or what it might be.  The court is
not saying that such a chain of reasoning could not be presented; the court is
merely saying that it is not presented (or at least not presented adequately)
in this version of the cross-complaint.
 
As it stands, the 1997 contract clearly and apparently
unambiguously admits of no third party beneficiaries, although it is well
settled that parol evidence can be used to interpret a patent or latent
ambiguity, meaning that the ambiguity might not be apparent on the contract’s
face but be revealed only by the parol evidence (although even then, the
interpretation suggested by the parol evidence must be one to which the
contract’s words are reasonably susceptible). 
If the contract means what it says, then West Pointe is not a third
party beneficiary, and it cannot squeeze within what is really an exception to
the indemnity rule.  Recall that
equitable indemnity is generally a tort doctrine.  It is a doctrine implied by law to allocate
payment as between joint tortfeasors who are jointly and severally liable to
the plaintiff as between themselves. 
(The plaintiff, of course, can recover the whole of the judgment from
any one or more joint tortfeasors.)  So
the notion of equitable indemnity springing from contract is the exception to
the rule.  It is a well established
exception, but it is an exception.  Then
there is the further narrowing by assuming, as West Pointe does, that the doctrine
applies not only to the contracting parties—who are in privity with one
another—but also to unnamed third party beneficiaries.  Although there is some case law so
suggesting, it is hardly a well settled principle.  And then there is the notion that the court
must read the no third party beneficiary clause out of the contract, or at
least view it as not meaning what it says on its face.  And then the court has to find that it is at
least plausible that a motivating purpose of those entering into the contract
was to benefit West Pointe.  And then the
court must agree that the burden of being forced to abide by the limits placed
on Lot 7 is really a benefit.  And after
that, the court has to assume that the duty to record the CC&Rs is actually
something where West Pointe was the intended beneficiary.  (And, finally, the court notes, although this
is not part of the ruling, that West Pointe could also have recorded the
CC&R’s or West Pointe—having actual knowledge of the restriction—could have
made sure to tell plaintiff about it when West Pointe sold plaintiff the land.)  That is just a chain with too many links,
even on demurrer, given the cross-complaint as presently written.
 
The court will therefore SUSTAIN the demurrer.  However, because this really depends on
whether West Pointe can articulate some path through the tangle just described,
the court will give West Pointe 30 days LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
On a different note, the court was very pleased to see that
the discovery motions have been withdrawn. 
The parties are to be commended on being able to resolve those issues.