 Case Number:  24SMCV03228    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  I This is a premises liability case.  Plaintiff alleges that defendant
“maliciously” failed to warn of a dangerous condition—that the floor near the
shower was wet.  Defendant asserts that
Civil Code section 846 limits liability as to land owners from persons who
entered the land for a recreational purpose unless the land owner’s conduct was
willful and it was not willful here.  That
is a carve-out from the general rule that a land owner is responsible for
injuries occurring on the land as to an invitee upon a showing of
negligence.  Defendant also argues that
plaintiff was not engaging in recreational activity at the time of the
incident.  
 
Frankly, the court is having a hard time understanding
defendants’ argument under Civil Code section 846.  It would seem that defendant would argue that
the statute does apply because it provides for a defense from liability
absent willful misconduct, which is not protected whether or not the statute
applies.  In any case, the more
fundamental problem  in the court’s view
is that a fair reading of the statute is that it was not meant to apply to
membership health clubs (not open to the public), like LA Fitness, in the first
place.  It is designed to encourage land
owners to allow the public onto the land for things like fishing, hiking, or
other recreational activities.  Those
owning open spaces would not make them available to the public if every time
someone got hurt the owner was sued.  And
negligence for open spaces might well be relatively easy to establish—at least
it would get to trial a lot.  By
eliminating liability unless the land owner acted willfully (like setting a
trap), an owner need not worry about lawsuits when someone falls on the trail,
tumbles down an embankment, or slips on a wet rock.  The court is not saying that the statute is
necessarily limited to open spaces; perhaps a community room open to the public
with a basketball hoop, for example, might come within the statute.  But LA Fitness is not an open space into
which any member of the public can come at any time.  It is a membership club and one must pay a
regular fee in order to enter.  (It is
true that there could be something like a free trial, but that is not an
invitation to the public; it is a limited offer designed to get a person to
join.)  In any event, although the court
gives defendant high marks for creativity, absent some kind of case authority
extending the statute the court does not believe that it was meant to, or does,
apply to a health club. 
 
Defendant also contends that there is no basis for the tort
of willful failure to warn because there is no evidence that the conduct was
willful.  Here, the court disagrees,
although the matter is closer.  There is
no “willfulness” in the allegations to the extent that willfulness means a
desire to injure plaintiff.  Rather, it
appears that the floor was slippery and that a person within defendant’s employ
knew it because the slipperiness was the result of mopping and a lack of
signage and therefore was (arguably, and according to plaintiff) acting with
deliberate indifference to the safety of others.  The court has its doubts as to whether that
is anything beyond ordinary negligence, but facts need to be known.  For example, had the issue been reported to
defendant but defendant failed to do anything, how long had the floor been in
this condition, had there been any attempt to dry the floor or was the floor
sopping wet, had anyone else slipped and been injured?  Those are questions that could (at least in
theory) lead to a finding of willfulness. 
Defendant will contend that this is why more information is needed,
although the demurrer seeks an order that leave to amend be denied.  But these facts are within defendant’s
knowledge more than plaintiff’s knowledge. 
It is not appropriate to require plaintiff to plead those evidentiary
facts without discovery.  This is better
tested on summary judgment.
 
In any event, because the court does not believe that the
statute applies to this case, the demurrer is OVERRULED as to the first cause
of action.  Because the allegations are
enough for the pleading stage, although they may be vulnerable to a summary
judgment motion, the demurrer is OVERRULED as to the second cause of action as
well.  The motion to strike is DENIED for
the same reason, although, as set forth above, the court has its strong doubts
that either the second cause of action or the punitive damages allegations will
survive summary adjudication.  Defendant
has the time allowed by law to answer. 