 Case Number:  24SMCV01741    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  I The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.  The allegations are that defendant secretly
recorded a telephone call with plaintiff in which plaintiff allegedly
threatened to put a bullet in his head. 
That recording was played during a small claims proceeding and
apparently helped defendant (who was the plaintiff in that proceeding)
prevail.  Plaintiff here (defendant
there) now sues for defamation.  At an
earlier hearing, the court was inclined to sustain the demurrer without leave
to amend.  Plaintiff, however, sought a
continuance to allow her to file an opposition. 
The court ultimately granted a short continuance and an opposition was
filed.  
 
The court is not persuaded by the opposition.  In it, plaintiff relies on cases like Kimmel
v. Goland (1990) 51 Cal.3d 202. 
There, our Supreme Court concluded that the litigation privilege (which
forms the basis of the demurrer) does not protect against liability for
non-communicative acts, even if done in furtherance of litigation.  So here, plaintiff claims, playing the
recording is a noncommunicative act.  The
court believes plaintiff overreads the case. 
 
The court agrees with plaintiff that if defendant recorded
the conversation in violation of Penal Code section 652, the recording itself
is not protected.  And that is true even
if defendant’s sole purpose was to use the recording to justify a future
lawsuit.  The problem is that plaintiff
is not suing defendant for making the recording—a noncommunicative act.  Plaintiff is suing defendant for defamation
based for playing the recording in open court.  Playing a recording, unlike making the
recording, is a communicative act.  The
whole point of playing the recording is to communicate the recording’s contents
to some third party (here, the court). 
Because it is a communicative act, it is protected under the litigation
privilege, notwithstanding cases like Kimmel.  And it is clear that it is only playing the
recording for which plaintiff currently sues. 
The suit is for defamation—a tort that requires as one of its elements
publication (i.e., playing or communicating the speech).  Therefore, the court must SUSTAIN the
demurrer.
 
However, the court is no longer of the view that leave to
amend should be denied.  In the prior
ruling, the court was focused on how plaintiff could allege defamation based on
anything that happened during trial testimony. 
At oral argument plaintiff did not suggest a way to do so, and the court
still does not see how it could be done. 
False testimony is, of course, perjury, but that does not make it
actionable in civil court.  But it is
possible, in light of the opposition, that plaintiff intends to allege some
other tort that is tied to the making of the recording rather than the playing
of the recording.  If plaintiff can do
that, then the court might well agree that the gist of the tort is a
noncommunicative act and would not be barred by the litigation privilege.
 
Therefore, plaintiff has 30 days’ LEAVE TO AMEND.  Defendant will have the time allowed by law
to answer or otherwise respond to the amended complaint.  