 Case Number:  BC654863    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



NARINE CATES,
            Plaintiff/Original
  Judgment Creditor,
v.
SHANT OHANIAN,
                        Defendant/Judgment
  Debtor.


 Case No.:          BC654863
 Hearing Date:   7/9/24
 Trial Date:        
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Assignee of Record and Judgment
  Creditor Gregg Roberts’s Motion for Authorization for Issuance of Earnings
  Withholding Order Against Silva Ohanian aka Silva Sevlian, Nondebtor Spouse
  of the Judgment Debtor, Shant Ohanian



 
I. Background
 
  On October 9, 2019, judgment was entered
in this action in favor Plaintiff Narine Cates (“Plaintiff”) and against Defendant
Shant Ohanian (“Judgment Debtor”) in the amount $101,063.50. 
 
On June 1, 2023, Plaintiff assigned her judgment
to Gregg Roberts (“Judgment Creditor”). (Assignment of Judgment &
Acknowledgment of Assignment of Judgment filed 6/1/23).  
 
On May 20, 2024, Judgment Creditor filed the
instant motion for an earnings withholding order against the earnings of Silva
Ohanian aka Silva Sevlian (“Nondebtor Spouse”), nondebtor spouse of Judgment
Debtor.
 
II. Earnings Withholding Order:
CONTINUED.
 
A.   
Legal Standard
                                                                 
“Community
property is subject to enforcement of a money judgment as provided by the
Family Code.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 695.020, subd. (a).) Further,
“[a]ny provision of [the Enforcement of Judgments Act] that applies to the
property of the judgment debtor . . . also applies to the community property
interest of the spouse of the judgment debtor,” whether the community property
is in the possession or control of the judgment debtor or in the possession or
control of the spouse of the judgment debtor. (Code Civ. Proc., §
695.020, subd. (b).)   
 
Earnings
of either spouse acquired during marriage are community property. (Fam. Code §
760.) 
"Except as otherwise expressly provided by statute, the community estate
is liable for a debt incurred by either spouse before or during marriage,
regardless of which spouse has the management and control of the property and
regardless of whether one or both spouses are parties to the debt or to a
judgment for the debt.” (Fam. Code, § 910,
subd. (a).) 
 
After issuance of a writ of execution, a judgment
creditor may apply for issuance of an earnings withholding order to a
registered process server who may then serve an earnings withholding order on
the debtor’s employer.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 706.108, subd. (a).)  An
earnings withholding order may be issued against the earnings of the judgment
debtor’s spouse only upon court order after a noticed motion.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 706.109.)  Any withholding under an earnings withholding order
must comply with Code of Civil Procedure section 706.050. 
 
B.
Court’s Determination
 
Here, a writ of execution was issued on January
21, 2021. Judgment Creditor has collected nothing toward the satisfaction of
the judgment, and no execution, levy, or other judgment enforcement tactic is
in process. (Declaration of Gregg Roberts.) Also, Plaintiff has collected
nothing through her own efforts or through the efforts of the previous assignee
toward the satisfaction of the judgment. (Id.) There is no evidence that
any exceptions apply which would make the earnings of Nondebtor Spouse exempt
from liability for the judgment entered against her spouse, Judgment Debtor in
this case. And Nondebtor Spouse has filed no opposition claiming that she is
not the spouse of Judgment Debtor or making any other objection to the motion—the
motion provides Nondebtor Spouse filed a petition for legal separation on June
25, 2019, but the separation was never consummated and no dissolution was
requested or granted.  
However, proper service is in question as no
proof of service of the motion and supporting documents on Nondebtor Spouse
appears to have been filed; since Judgment Debtor never appeared in the action,
he is not entitled to notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1014.) Therefore, the motion
is continued to allow Judgment Creditor to file proof of service as to
Nondebtor Spouse. 
III. Conclusion
 
The motion for earnings withholding order is
CONTINUED to allow Judgment Creditor to file proof of service as to Nondebtor
Spouse.
  