  Case Number:  23STCV12837    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



JACK MARTIN,
                        Plaintiff,
v.
HEALTH NET LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY and DOES 1-10,
  inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV12837
 Hearing Date:   7/9/24
 Trial Date:        11/5/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant Health Net Life Insurance
  Company’s Motion to Seal



 
I. Background
 
On June 6, 2023,
Plaintiff Jack Martin (“Plaintiff”) commenced this action by filing his
Complaint against Defendant Health Net Life Insurance Company (“Defendant”) for
(1) Breach of the Implied Duty of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (2)
Violation of Civil Code Section 3428; and (3) Violation of Business and
Professions Code Section 17200 et seq. Plaintiff is a former insured of
Defendant, a health care insurer. 
 
On May 28, 2024, Defendant filed
the instant motion to seal confidential and protected information in connection
with its motion for summary judgment. Plaintiff filed his opposition brief on
June 25, 2024, and Defendant filed its reply brief on August 1, 2024. 
 
II. Motion to Seal: DENIED,
other than as to redactions.
A.   
Legal Standard
 
Unless confidentiality is required by law, court records
are presumed to be open to public review. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(c);
see also Cal. Const., art. I, § 3(b)(1) [“The people have the right of access
to information concerning the conduct of the people’s business”].) “The court
may order that a record be filed under seal only if it expressly finds facts
that establish: (1) There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the
right of public access to the record; (2) The overriding interest supports
sealing the record; (3) A substantial probability exists that the overriding
interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) The proposed
sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) No less restrictive means exist to
achieve the overriding interest.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d); see also
NBC Subsidiary (KNBC-TV), Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1178,
1217-1218.) “The motion or application must be accompanied by a memorandum and
a declaration containing facts sufficient to justify the sealing.” (Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 2.551(b)(1).)
 
B.   
Court’s Determination
 
The Court DENIES the motion, other
than as indicated below.
 
Defendant seeks to seal documents
containing (1) Plaintiff’s protected health information and (2) Defendant’s
confidential proprietary information, lodged conditionally under seal by Defendant
on May 28, 2024 in connection with Defendant’s motion for summary judgment. 
 
Specifically, Defendant seeks to
seal Exhibits 1-3,7-18, and 21-22 of Defendant’s Appendix of Evidence in
support of motion for summary judgment which include: (i) medical records,
including treatment records, for procedures Plaintiff received; (ii) an
authorization request and customer service notes for the disputed procedures at
issue in this case; (iii) letters from Defendant and/or its authorized
representatives requesting additional medical records and information; (iv)
secondary opinions issued by third-party organizations specializing in spinal
surgeries related to the disputed procedures at issue in this case; and (v)
letters from Defendant and TurningPoint Healthcare Solutions LLC denying
Plaintiff’s request for authorization for the medical procedures at issue in
this case. Further, Defendant seeks to seal Exhibits 4-5 and 24-25 which
includes confidential and proprietary clinical policies for the two procedures
at issue in this case. 
 
Plaintiff contends that Defndant’s
motion is a pretext to seal more than what is permitted and, therefore, only Plaintiff’s
protected information should be redacted, not entire exhibits. Also, as to Defendant’s
proprietary information, Plaintiff contends there is no overriding interest that
would require sealing the subject records because the clinical policies are not
confidential since they are available to the public upon request. 
 
            In reply, Defendant
contends that Plaintiff’s arguments are misplaced because Defendant filed the
exhibits under seal pursuant to its statutory obligation and because the
clinical policies are provided to a medical provider and an insured upon
request, which does not make them publicly available. Nevertheless, Defendant
provides that it is amendable to publicly re-filing its May 28, 2024 Appendix
of Evidence in support of its motion for summary judgment once Plaintiff
confirms the specific protected health information he believes should be
redacted from those exhibits. Also, as to the clinical policies, for the
limited purpose of this case, Defendant does not oppose Plaintiff’s request to
unseal Exhibits 4-5 and 24-25.
 
Because Defendant does
not oppose Plaintiff’s request to unseal Exhibits 4-5 and 24-25, the motion to
seal as to these exhibits is denied as moot. The motion to seal is also denied
as to exhibits 1-3, 7-18 and 21-22 provided that Plaintiff instructs
Defendant as to the specific information within those exhibits that Plaintiff
deems should be redacted. 
 
III. Conclusion
 
The motion to seal as
to these Exhibits 4-5 and 24-25 is denied as moot. The motion to seal is denied
as to exhibits 1-3, 7-18 and 21-22 provided that Plaintiff instructs
Defendant as to the specific information within those exhibits that Plaintiff
deems should be redacted. Only the Plaintiff’s identifying information as so indicated
by Plaintiff should be redacted in the new filings.   