  Case Number:  23SMCV05023    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  O   Case
Name:  Alberton v. N Vision
Management, LLC



Case No.:


23SMCV05023


Complaint Filed:


10-24-23         




Hearing Date:


7-2-24 


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


9


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


None



SUBJECT:                 MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
MOVING
PARTY:   Defendants N Vision
Management, LLC, Dar Mahboubi and Manijeh Messa
RESP.
PARTY:         Plaintiff Jeunique
Alberton
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Defendants
N Vision Management, LLC, Dar Mahboubi and Manijeh Messas’ Motion to Compel
Arbitration is GRANTED. The action is stayed pending
resolution of arbitration pursuant to CCP §1281.4. Defendants proved the
existence of a valid arbitration agreement. Plaintiff did not meet their burden
to prove a defense to its enforcement. 
 
            The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s request
to consider evidence of Alberton’s ability to pay, and order NVM
Defendants to pay Alberton’s share or waive the right to arbitrate. The
Arbitration Agreement provides for the upfront costs, if any, to be paid for by
the Defendants. 
 

Findings and Reasoning
            Under both
the Title 9 section 2 of the United States Code (known as the Federal
Arbitration Act, hereinafter “FAA”) and the Title 9 of Part III of the
California Code of Civil Procedure commencing at section 1281 (known as the
California Arbitration Act, hereinafter “CAA”), arbitration agreements are
valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law
or equity for voiding a contract.  (Winter
v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.)  
 
            “The
petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by the preponderance of the evidence, and a party opposing the
petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any
fact necessary to its defense. In these summary proceedings, the trial court
sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other
documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court's
discretion, to reach a final determination.” (Giuliano v. Inland Empire
Personnel, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.)   “The party opposing arbitration has the
burden of demonstrating that an arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to
require arbitration of the dispute.” (Rice v. Downs (2016) 247
Cal.App.4th 1213, 1223, citing Coast Plaza Doctors Hospital v. Blue Cross of
California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677, 686-87.)   “On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists, unless it determines that: (a) The right to compel
arbitration has been waived by the petitioner…” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)
 
            “A party
opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of
evidence any fact necessary to its defense.” (Olvera v. El Pollo Loco, Inc.
(2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 447, 453.) CCP §1281.2 only allows the Court to deny
enforcement of an applicable arbitration agreement where the party resisting
arbitration demonstrates (1) waiver; (2) grounds for rescission of the
agreement; or (3) subsection (c) grounds involving third parties to the
arbitration agreement and potential for inconsistent rulings of fact or law.
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)
 
I.     
Petitioner Meets its Burden to Prove the Existence
of Valid Arbitration Agreement 
 
Defendants N Vision Management,
LLC, Dar Mahboubi and Manijeh Messa (“NVM Defendants”) move to compel
arbitration based on stand-alone Arbitration Agreement within the Defendant N
Vision Management LLC’s (“NVM”) employment onboarding documents executed and
agreed upon by Plaintiff Jeunique Alberton (“Alberton”) upon her hiring on 11-1-22.
(Wall Decl., ¶¶ 5–7, Ex. A (“Arbitration Agreement”).) The relevant portions of
the Arbitration Agreement state as follows:
 
1.    
Duty to Arbitrate.
By signing this
Agreement, YOU and the Company each agree that all Claims between YOU and the
Company shall be exclusively decided by arbitration governed by the Federal
Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C § et seq., if applicable, or of Title 9 of Part III of
the California Code of Civil Procedure, sections 1280 et seq., or corresponding
Nevada State Laws, should these apply, before a NEUTRAL ARBITRATOR AND NOT BY A
COURT OR A JURY. In all cases, such arbitration shall be final and binding and
conducted under the most current version of the JAMS Employment Rules and
Procedures, and/or such other procedures as the Parties both agree in writing.
THE NEUTRAL ARBITRATOR shall be selected through JAMS, or as otherwise agreed
to by the Parties in writing.
 
2 Arbitration
and Dispute Resolution.
(a) As used above,
“Claims” means all disputes arising out of or related to YOUR application for
employment, YOUR employment by the Company, or YOUR separation from employment
with the Company. The term “Claims” includes, but is not limited to the
following: (i) alleged violations of federal, state and/or local institutions,
statutes such as Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the California Fair
Employment and Housing Act, and corresponding Nevada State laws, regulations or
ordinances and/or violations of common law (including, but not limited to, ANY
CLAIM OF DISCRIMINATION, HARRASSMENT OR RETALIATION); (ii) claims based on any
purported breach of contractual obligations, including breach of the covenant
of good faith and fair dealing, wrongful termination or constructive
termination; (ili) violations of public policy; (iv) violations of intellectual
property laws and other business protection claims, including breach of
confidential agreements, unauthorized use of trade secrets, and breach of covenants
not to compete; and (v) claims arising under or involving any provision or
breach of a provision of this Agreement.
 . . . . 
 
“PLEASE READ THIS
AGREEMENT CAREFULLY. THIS AGREEMENT TO ARBITRATE IS A WAIVER AND RELEASES ALL
RIGHTS TO PURSUE COVERED CLAIMS IN A COURT BY A JUDGE OR A JURY AND PROVIDES
FOR RESOLUTION OF CLAIMS PURSUANT TO BINDING ARBITRATION. BY SIGNING BELOW,
EACH PARTY ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT HE/SHE HAS READ, UNDERSTANDS, AND
AGREES TO ABIDE BY THE ARBITRATION AND DISPUTE RESOLUTION PROVISIONS STATED
ABOVE
 
(Arbitration
Agreement, ¶¶ 1, 2, 4.)
 
            NVM
Defendants provide a declaration from Ronald Wall (“Wall”) the CFO for NVM who
has access to “the  personnel records
created and maintained by NVM,” and is “familiar with NVM’s policies and
practices for creating and maintaining personnel files.” (Wall Decl., ¶ 1.)
Wall declares that Alberton “did not contact Defendant to ask about, question,
or take issue with Defendant’s onboarding documents or the Agreement (nor did
she seek to negotiate any of its terms before voluntarily signing it).” (Id.,
¶ 9.)  Wall declares that Alberton signed
the agreement which “affirmatively represented that she read and fully
understood the agreement and that she voluntarily agreed to all of its terms.”
(Ibid.) Wall declares that Alberton “did not contact NVM to complain
about anyone falsifying her signatures during the onboarding process, including
her signature on the Agreement. (Id., ¶ 10.) Wall declares that NVM has
a contract with Bijan Holdings LLC to provide Bijan Holdings LLC with business
management services for its House of Bijan locations in California and Nevada.
(Id., ¶ 11.) Wall declares Alberton was assigned to work at the House of
Bijan’s Rodeo Drive Beverly Hills Store as an administrative assistant. (Id.,
¶ 12.)
 
            Thus,
the Court finds that NVM Defendants have met their burden to prove the
existence of a valid arbitration agreement. The burden now shifts to Alberton
to prove a defense to enforcement of the arbitration agreement. 
 
II.  
Unconscionability
 
            Alberton argues the arbitration agreement is
procedurally and substantively unconscionable, thus grounds for rescission of
the agreement under CCP § 1281.2(b). (See Oppo., 3–5.) 
 
            “The prevailing view is that procedural and substantive
unconscionability must both be present in order for a court to exercise its
discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the doctrine of
unconscionability.  But they need not be
present in the same degree. Essentially a sliding scale is invoked which
disregards the regularity of the procedural process of the contract formation,
that creates the terms, in proportion to the greater harshness or
unreasonableness of the substantive terms themselves.  In other words, the more substantively
oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability
is required to come to the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice
versa.” (Baltazar v. Forever 21, Inc. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237,
1243–1244, quoting Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc.
(2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114).
 
a.    
Procedural Unconscionability
 
            “The procedural element addresses the circumstances of
contract negotiation and formation, focusing on oppression or surprise due to
unequal bargaining power.  Oppression
occurs where a contract involves lack of negotiation and meaningful choice,
surprise where the allegedly unconscionable provision is hidden within a prolix
printed form.  When the contract is a
contract of adhesion imposed and drafted by the party with superior bargaining
power, the adhesive nature of the contract is evidence of some degree of
procedural unconscionability. However, the fact that an agreement is adhesive
is not, alone, sufficient to render it unconscionable.”  (Malone v. Superior Court (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 1551, 1561.)
 
            “The term contract of adhesion signifies a standardized
contract, which, imposed and drafted by the party of superior bargaining
strength, relegates to the subscribing party only the opportunity to adhere to
the contract or reject it.”  (Armendariz,
supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 113.) 
Thus, a form agreement presented on a preprinted form and offered on a
take-it-or-leave-it-basis would render it a contract of adhesion.  (Baltazar, supra, 62 Cal.4th
at p. 1245.)  Where a contract of
adhesion is presented but there is no element of surprise or oppression, the
Court must be “particularly attuned” to a claim of unconscionability, but the
agreement is “not subject[ed] to the same degree of scrutiny as contracts of
adhesion that involve surprise or other sharp practices.”  (Ibid.)  
 
            “The circumstances relevant to establishing oppression
include, but are not limited to (1) the amount of time the party is given to
consider the proposed contract; (2) the amount and type of pressure exerted on
the party to sign the proposed contract; (3) the length of the proposed
contract and the length and complexity of the challenged provision; (4) the
education and experience of the party; and (5) whether the party's review of
the proposed contract was aided by an attorney.”  (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th
111, 126–127.)
 
            Alberton argues
the agreement is procedurally unconscionable claiming Plaintiff was given “no
opportunity to negotiate, opt out, let alone learn of the nature of the
procedure, before being bound to it as a requisite to her being hired.” (Oppo.,
p. 5:18–21.) The Court is not persuaded. Procedural unconscionability occurs
when there is an element of surprise and oppression, and in this instance there
was very little to none of either. The Arbitration agreement was a succinct stand-alone
document, in which the agreement stated Alberton could seek legal advice before
signing the agreement, and included warnings to reach carefully in bold and all
caps. (See e.g. Roman v. Superior Court (2009) 172 Cal. App. 4th 1462,
1470-71 [minimal procedural unconscionability when employment arbitration
agreement was beneath the heading “Please Read Carefully, Initial Each
Paragraph and Sign Below.”]; Sanchez v. Carmax Auto Superstores Cal., LLC
(2014) 224 Cal. App. 4th 398, 403 [minimal procedural unconscionability when
“[t]he stand-alone arbitration agreement was not hidden, but prominently
featured as part of the employment application, and there are no ‘other indicia
of procedural unconscionability.”].)
 
            At most,
this type of employment contract including a stand-alone arbitration agreement,
would create a minimal degree of procedural unconscionability, thus substantive
unconscionability must be present to “render an agreement unenforceable”. (Roman,
supra, 172 Cal.App.4th at p. 1471 [“whatever measure of
procedural unconscionability may be present in this case involving an adhesive employment
agreement between parties with unequal bargaining power, procedural
unconscionability alone does not render an agreement unenforceable. There must
also be some measure of substantive unconscionability.”].)          
 
b.    
Substantive Unconscionability
 
Substantive
unconscionability focuses on the terms of the agreement and whether those terms
are “so one sided as to “’shock the conscience.’” (Kinney v. United
Healthcare Services, Inc. (1999) 70 Cal. App.4th 1329, 1330.)  “To reiterate, we assess
unconscionability with a sliding scale approach. [Citation] In light of the high degree of procedural
unconscionability, even a low degree of substantive unconscionability could
render the arbitration agreement unconscionable.” (Carmona v. Lincoln Millennium Car Wash, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 74, 85.)
            Alberton argues
the Arbitration Agreement is substantively unconscionable because “the
respective rights of the parties are disparate,” the “terms of the agreement
are deficient,” the “rules and impacts of arbitration are not explained,” and
the claims brought by Alberton are not covered by the Arbitration Agreement. Again,
the Court is not persuaded. 
 
            The first
argument regarding the respective rights of the parties is answered within the
procedural unconscionability analysis above, and at most creates a minimal
level of procedural unconscionability. Alberton’s second argument fails because
the terms of the Arbitration Agreement are not deficient, and additionally Alberton
provides no authority for this argument. 
            
            An
arbitration agreement is not rendered substantively unconscionable because the
agreement fails to provide the rules and impacts of arbitration. (See Baltazar
v. Forever 21, Inc. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237, 1246 [“failure to attach the
AAA rules therefore does not affect our consideration of [plaintiff’s] claims
of substantive unconscionability.”].) Furthermore, the Arbitration Agreement specifies
that the JAMS rules will apply to the arbitration, and these rules are readily
available on the internet. (See Arbitration Agreement, ¶ 2(e); see also Bigler
v. Harker School (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 727, 737 [“the absence of the AAA
rules is of minor significance to our analysis.”]; Boghos v. Certain
Underwriters at Lloyd’s of London (2005) 36 Cal.4th 495, 505, fn. 6 [full,
up-to-date text of AAA rules was available on AAA’s Internet site].)
 
            Lastly, the
claims brought by Alberton are in fact covered by the Arbitration Agreement, as
the claims are related to her employment, or the termination of the employment.
(See Arbitration Agreement, first paragrah [“This Agreement requires YOU to
arbitrate any legal dispute related to YOUR application for employment or YOUR
employment or the termination of YOUR employment with the Company.”].)
 
            The
Arbitration is not substantively unconscionable, and thus the Arbitration
Agreement is not unconscionable. 
 
III.          
Plaintiff’s Fails to Show the Agreement is Illegal.
 
            Alberton
argues the Arbitration Agreement is subject to recission because the agreement
had an illegal purpose, citing to Abramson v. Juniper Networks, Inc.
(2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 638. Abramson deals with severing of unconscionable
arbitration agreement sections, or sections of arbitration agreements that
violate public policy. (See Abramson, supra, 115 Cal.App.4th at
pp. 658–660.) As stated above, the Arbitration Agreement is not unconscionable,
nor does the agreement appear to violate public policy, as it is a straightforward
and concise arbitration agreement. Public policy favors the enforcement of
arbitration agreements. (See Mendoza v. Trans Valley Transport (2022) 75
Cal.App.5th 748, 764[“California has a strong public policy in favor of
arbitration and any doubts regarding the arbitrability of a dispute are
resolved in favor of arbitration”].)


            Additionally,
Alberton does not argue that certain sections of the Arbitration Agreement violate
public policy in order to sever those specific sections, instead conclusively arguing
the entire arbitration agreement violates public policy because of alleged
separate illegal acts committed by the NVM Defendants. This argument will not
suffice however. As stated above, arbitration agreements inherently do not
violate public policy, and without providing specific sections of the agreement
that allegedly violate public policy the Court cannot find the agreement
subject to recission or severance as against public policy.
 
IV.          
Evidence of the Plaintiff’s Ability to Pay for
Arbitration
 
            Alberton asks
the Court to “estimate the anticipated cost of the arbitration proceeding
ordered, and then determine whether Ms. Alberton is financially able to pay any
share of that cost,” declaring that she does “not have the ability to advance
arbitration costs, whatsoever.” (Oppo., p. 7:3–11; Alberton Decl., ¶ 6.) Alberton
cites to Roldan v. Callahan (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 87 to support this
argument. However, the Arbitration Agreement states:
 
In the event that an
Arbitrator requests reasonable compensation for serving as such, the Parties
agree that the Company shall initially pay all of the costs of the Arbitrator,
subject to the right of the Arbitrator to transfer the burden of compensation
to either party in any award rendered . . .
 
(Arbitration
Agreement, ¶ 2(g).)
 
            The
Arbitration Agreement does not require Alberton to pay any upfront costs as
contemplated in Roldan. The
issue in Roldan involved an arbitration clause that did not
provide for upfront costs to be paid for by the Defendant. (See Roldan, supra,
219 Cal.App.4th at p. 94 [“the
arbitration provision drafted by [Defendant] reflects no effort to ensure that
clients of limited means would have equal access to the alternative forum it
mandates.”] The Arbitration Agreement in this instance provides for upfront
costs to be paid for by the NVM Defendants, and thus Alberton has equal access
to the arbitration forum despite not have the ability to advance arbitration
costs.


V.             
Stay pending
resolution of arbitration pursuant to CCP §1281.4 
            “If a court of competent jurisdiction, whether in this
State or not, has ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an issue
involved in an action or proceeding pending before a court of this State, the
court in which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a
party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an
arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such
earlier time as the court specifies.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.) 
The action is stayed pending resolution of arbitration
pursuant to CCP §1281.4.