  Case Number:  23CHCV03879    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  F49    Dept.    F49     Date:    7/17/24     Case    Name: Scott Goldstein v. General Motors, LLC; and Does 1 through 10     Case    # 23CHCV03879      LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT DEPARTMENT F49    JULY 17, 2024    MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION  ATTENDANCE AND PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS BY DEFENDANT GENERAL MOTORS, LLC’S  PERSON MOST QUALIFIED; AND REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS  Los Angeles Superior  Court Case # 23CHCV03879    Motion  filed: 4/11/24   MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Scott Goldstein (“Plaintiff”  or “Goldstein”) RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant General Motors, LLC  (“Defendant” or “GM”) NOTICE: OK.   RELIEF  REQUESTED: An  order from this Court to compel the attendance of Defendant GM’s Person Most Qualified  (“PMQ”) with the production of documents. Plaintiff also requests the Court to  impose monetary sanctions against GM in the amount of $2,970.00.    TENTATIVE  RULING: The  motion is GRANTED. The Request for Monetary Sanctions is GRANTED IN PART.    BACKGROUND   Plaintiff filed this Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act  lawsuit over alleged defects in his 2022 Chevrolet Bolt (the “Subject Vehicle”),  which was manufactured by Defendant GM. Plaintiff purchased the Subject Vehicle  in new condition on or about July 10, 2021, with GM’s express warranty. (Compl.  ¶¶ 4 - 8.)   On December 21, 2023, Plaintiff initiated the action against  GM and Does 1 through 10. The Complaint alleges a cause of action for Violation  of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. Subsequently, GM filed its Answer to  the Complaint on January 29, 2024.   On April 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed the  instant Motion to Compel Deposition Attendance and Production of Documents by GM’s  PMQ (the “Motion”). Subsequently, on July 2, 2024, GM filed its Opposition to  the Motion, and Plaintiff replied on July 11, 2024.   ANALYSIS   To compel the deposition of a  party to an action or its officer, director, managing agent, or employee, the  deposing party need only serve a notice in compliance with Code of Civil  Procedure section 2025.240. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280, subd. (a).) Nothing  further is needed. If, after service of the deposition notice, the deponent  fails to appear “without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410  . . .” the deposing party may move for an order compelling the deponent’s  attendance and testimony. (Id., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)   A.     Procedural  Requirements   1.       Meet and Confer   "Implicit in the requirement  that counsel contact the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance is a  requirement that counsel listen to the reasons offered and make a good faith  attempt to resolve the issue," including by rescheduling.¿(Leko v.  Cornerstone Bldg. Inspection Serv. (2001) 86 Cal. App. 4th 1109, 1124.)   Here, Plaintiff served his  first deposition notice for the deposition of GM’s PMQ with production of  documents on January 17, 2024, for a deposition date of February 9, 2024. (Kaufman  Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. “1.”) On February 2, 2024, GM served its written objection to  the first deposition notice. (Id. ¶ 6, Ex. “2.”) Following this,  Plaintiff’s counsel attempted to meet and confer with GM, via phone call and  email to discuss the deposition. However, GM failed to respond to Plaintiff’s  communications. (Id. ¶ 7, Ex. “3.”)    On February 6, 2024,  Plaintiff served his First Amended Notice of Deposition, for a deposition date  of February 27, 2024. (Id. ¶ 8, Ex. “4.”) In response, GM served its  objections to the First Amended Notice of Deposition on February 20, 2024. (Id.  ¶ 9, Ex. “5.”) Plaintiff made another attempt to call and email GM to meet and  confer; however, GM did not respond. (Id. ¶ 10, Ex. “6.”)   Subsequently, Plaintiff  served on GM his Second Amended Notice of Deposition for a deposition date of  March 18, 2024, to which GM served its objections on March 12, 2024. (Id.  ¶¶ 11-12.) Another meet and confer effort was made by Plaintiff to call and  send written correspondences to GM on March 14, 2024. Despite these efforts,  Plaintiff has not received responses from GM. (Id. ¶ 13.)    Based on the above records,  the Court concludes that Plaintiff has made good faith attempts to reschedule  and resolve issues raised in the instant Motion.   2.       Separate  Statement   The California Rules of Court  rule 3.1345 (a)(5) explicitly states that “Any motion involving the content of a discovery request or  the responses to such a request must be accompanied by a separate statement.  The motions that require a separate statement include a motion: ... (5) To compel or to quash the  production of documents or tangible things at a deposition[.]”   Here, Plaintiffs have fulfilled the  requirement by concurrently filing a separate statement with the Motion.   B.      Motion to  Compel Deposition of GM’s PMQ    Code of Civil Procedure  section 2025.280 subdivision (a) provides that service of a deposition notice  “is effective to require any deponent who is a party to the action [] to attend  and to testify, as well as to produce any document, electronically stored  information, or tangible thing for inspection and copying.”   An  objection under Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.410 is one that is  written, made “at least three calendar days prior to the date for which the  deposition is scheduled,” and pertains to an “error or irregularity” with the  notice itself. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (a).) The procedure for a  deponent who seeks to narrow the scope of a discovery request is to move for a  protective order. (Id., § 2025.420, subd. (a).)   Objections  do not stay the taking of the deposition. To do so, the objecting party  should move to quash the deposition notice and stay the taking of the  deposition. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410 (c), [“In addition to serving this  written objection, a party may also move for an order staying the taking of the  deposition and quashing the deposition notice. The motion shall be accompanied  by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. The taking of the  deposition is stayed pending the determination of this motion.”])   Here, GM’s objections were not related to the “error or  irregularity” in the deposition notice itself. Additionally, GM has not filed a motion for staying the taking of the  deposition or quashing the deposition notice.   Accordingly, Plaintiff is entitled to the deposition of  GM’s PMQ upon serving GM the Second Amended Deposition Notice.    Therefore, the Court GRANTS the Motion. The Court will  further examine the objections raised by GM below.   1)       GM’s Objections¿to Matters of Examination    Despite  making objections to each of the seven categories of subject matter (“Matter”) on  which the PMQ was to be examined, GM essentially only refused to produce a  witness as to Category No. 5. (Pl.’s Separate Statement, at p. 11.) GM has responded to other Matters with the statement that  “GM will produce a witness at mutually agreeable time and place to discuss the  relevant and nonprivileged aspects[.]” (See generally, Def’s Separate  Statement).   Matter  No. 5 concerns “Questions relating to  YOUR policies and procedures for complying with the lemon law.” (Pl.’s Separate  Statement, at p. 10.)   In  its Opposition, GM argues that “[t]estimony about policies and procedures are  irrelevant to Plaintiff’s claim that GM failed to repair his Bolt within a  reasonable number of attempts.” (Opp’n. at p. 6.)               In  response, Plaintiff contends that evidence of a car company’s “‘corporate  policies and practices regarding reacquisition of vehicles’ pursuant to the  lemon law is appropriate evidence for the jury to consider when evaluating  damages in a lemon law case,” citing Johnson v. Ford Motor Company  (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1191, 1198.               The  Court agrees that such information is relevant to claims for violation of the  Song-Beverly Act and is within the Court’s customary scope of permissible  document production in the party’s respective possession. As summarized by a  federal district court decision (Ramos v. FCA US, LLC (E.D. Cal. 2019)  385 F.Supp.3d 1071-1072), factors the trier of fact may consider as bearing on  a defendant’s willfulness include, among other evidence, whether the  manufacturer had a written policy on the statutory requirement to repair or  replace the vehicle. (See also Jensen v. BMW of North America, Inc.  (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 112, 136.)               Accordingly,  the Court OVERRULES GM’s relevance objection to Matter No. 5 in Plaintiff’s  Second Amended Notice of Deposition.               2)       GM’s Objections  to Production of Documents   Plaintiff’s Second Amended Notice of Deposition seeks  ten items to be produced by GM:   1.       WRITINGS which refer to, evidence or reflect  service or repairs performed on the SUBJECT VEHICLE at any time, including, but not limited to, the warranty  repair history, service request documents, work orders, repair orders, labor  receipts, parts order forms, computer printouts, parts receipts and billing  statements. 2.       Any and all correspondence with any person,  entity or organization other than YOUR attorney relating or referring in any way to Plaintiff or the SUBJECT  VEHICLE. 3.       Your California lemon law policy and procedure  manual(s) used by your dealers or authorized customer service representatives. 4.       YOUR Customer Relations file regarding Plaintiff  or the SUBJECT VEHICLE. 5.       WRITINGS provided to YOUR Customer Relations  representatives, which refer, reflect or relate to rules, policies or  procedures concerning the issuance of vehicle purchase refunds or replacements  pursuant to the California Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. 6.       YOUR Technical Service Bulletin Index, and any  TSB’s that relate to the WARRANTY NONCONFORMITY(S) alleged in this case. 7.       Any recalls that apply to the SUBJECT VEHICLE. 8.       WRITINGS that YOU reviewed in determining not to  repurchase or replace the SUBJECT VEHICLE prior to the date Plaintiff’s lawsuit  was filed. 9.       YOUR lemon law policy and procedure manual. 10.    A copy of any photographs or videos of the  SUBJECT VEHICLE. a)       Request Nos. 1-2, 4, and 6-8   With regard to Request Nos. 1-2, 4,  and 6-8, GM claims that it has already produced responsive documents in its  possession, custody, and control, including any purchase or lease contract that  GM may have obtained from the dealership who sold or leased the Subject Vehicle  to Plaintiff; any repair orders that GM may have obtained from GM-authorized  dealerships; the Global Warranty History Report; any Service Request Activity  Report(s); and lists of TSBs and recalls issued subject to the Subject Vehicle.  (Def.’s Separate Statement, at p. l6.)   In response, Plaintiff argues that  he is entitled to documents that are reasonably calculated to lead to the  discovery of admissible evidence about the issues in this case. (Pl.’s Separate  Statement, at pp. 16, 18, 21, and 26.)    The Court agrees with Plaintiff’s  argument that these request numbers are relevant. However, it finds that  Plaintiff’s argument does not effectively address why supplemental responses  must be produced by not directly responding to GM’s assertion that responsive  documents have already been produced. It is insufficient to merely claim that  “the list GM may or may not have produced months ago likely lacks some of the  TSBs or recalls that may now exist.” (Pl.’s Separate Statement. at pp. 24 and  25.)               Consequently,  the Court finds GM’s responses to Request Nos. 1-2, 4, and 6-8 to be  sufficient.   b)       Request  Nos. 3, 5, and 9               With regard to Request Nos. 3, 5, and 9, GM contends that  these requests seek GM’s policies and procedures for generally handling  customer’s complaints and repurchases, thus go far beyond what is relevant and  discoverable in Plaintiff’s individual breach of warranty matter. (Def.’s  Separate Statement, at p. l6.) Furthermore, GM objects to the request on the  grounds that they seek confidential, proprietary, or trade secret information,  and information protected by the attorney-client privilege or work product  doctrine. (Id. at pp. 18, 20, and 23.) Moreover, GM posits that  materials responsive to Request Nos. 3, 5, and 9 should not be ordered to  produce without an appropriate protective order. (Id. at p. 16.)               Given that  the Court has previously concluded that GM’s policies and procedures are  relevant to this action and permissible for document production, it finds GM’s  objection based on irrelevance lacks merits.    Moreover, Plaintiff states that he  had offered to execute a protective order for GM’s document protection in its  February 5, 2024 meet and confer letter. (Kaufman Decl. ¶ 7, Ex. (3.)) Absent evidence to the contrary, the  Court finds that GM ignored Plaintiff’s proposal, rendering its argument  unconvincing.    Therefore, the Court OVERRULES GM’s  objections to Request Nos. 3, 5, and 9. The parties may execute a stipulation  on a protective order and submit it for the Court’s approval.   c)        Request  No. 10   GM’s responses state that it is unaware at this time of any photographs or  videos responsive to this Request. (Def.’s Separate Statement, at p. 23.)   The  Court finds GM’s response to be sufficient.    C.     Monetary  Sanctions   If  a motion to compel a party deponent to appear for a deposition is granted, the  court must impose a monetary sanction "in favor of the party who noticed  the deposition and against the deponent . . . unless the court finds that the  one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other  circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust." (Code Civ  Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)   Utilizing  a lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the  Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs  incurred for the work in preparing the Motion is $1187.50, calculated at a  reasonable hourly rate of $475.00 for 2.5 hours reasonably spent.   CONCLUSION   The  Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Deposition  Attendance and Production of Documents by General Motors, LLC’s Person Most Qualified, consistent with  the findings above.   Plaintiff’s  Request for Monetary Sanctions is GRANTED IN PART.   General  Motors, LLC and its attorney(s) of record are ordered to jointly and severally  pay $1187.50 to Plaintiff’s Counsel.   Moving  party to give notice.