 Case Number:  19STCV40102    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion for Leave to File First Amended Cross-Complaint by
Defendants Har-South Marengo Manager, LLC and Har-South Marengo Avenue, LLC.
 
 
Tentative
The motion is GRANTED.
Background
On November 7, 2019, Plaintiff Aaron Espinoza
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Har-South Marengo LLC,
Har-South Marengo Manager LLC, and Does 1 through 10, inclusive, asserting
causes of action for (1) premises liability and (2) general negligence, arising
out of a turnstile accident. The complaint stated (incorrectly) that the
accident occurred on November 13, 2019, six days in the future on the date the
complaint was filed.
On July 16, 2020, Plaintiff amended the complaint to name
Har-South Marengo Avenue, LLC as Doe 6. 
On
August 13, 2020, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint (FAC) correcting the
date of the alleged accident to November 13, 2017.
On
October 26, 2020, Defendants Har-South Marengo LLC, Har-South Marengo
Manager LLC, and Har-South Marengo Avenue LLC filed their answer.
On April 25, 2023, Plaintiff amended the FAC to name
Jones Lang Lasalle Americas, Inc. (“JLL”) as Doe 7.  On June 30, 2023, JLL filed its answer.  On October 19, 2023, the Court granted JLL’s
motion to dismiss the claims in the complaint against it, without prejudice, for
failure to serve the summons and complaint within three years.
On September 28, 2023, Defendants
Har-South Marengo Manager LLC and Har-South Marengo Avenue LLC (“Defendants”)
filed this motion for leave to file a Cross-Complaint against JLL for
indemnification, apportionment of fault, and declaratory relief.  On October 19, 2023, JLL filed its opposition.
 On December 19, 2023, Defendants filed
their reply.
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 428.10
provides that a party against whom a cause of action has been asserted may file
a cross-complaint setting forth:  “(b)
Any cause of action he has against a person alleged to be liable thereon,
whether or not such person is already a party to the action, if the cause of
action asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same transaction,
occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause brought
against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or interest in the property or
controversy which is the subject of the cause brought against him.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.10, subd. (b).)  A party must seek leave of court to file a
cross-complaint if it is not concurrently filed with the answer or at any time
before the court sets a trial date.  Code
Civ. Proc., § 428.50, subd. (c).)  “Leave
may be granted in the interest of justice at any time during the course of the
action.“  (Ibid.)  
California law establishes a distinction
between compulsory and permissive cross-complaints.  Cross-complaints against non-parties are
always permissive.  1 Weil & Brown,
California Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial [The Rutter Group
2023], § 6:524.  Given that JLL is not
currently a party in this action, the proposed cross-complaint is permissive.  The court has broad discretion to grant or
deny leave to file a permissive cross-complaint.  (Crocker Nat’l Bank v. Emerald (1990)
221 Cal.App.3d 852, 864.) 
Discussion
Defendants seek leave to file a cross-complaint
against JLL for indemnity, apportionment of fault, and declaratory relief.  The cross-complaint plainly arises out of the
same transaction or occurrence as the cause of action asserted by Plaintiff
against Defendants in the FAC.  (See Code
Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd. (b).)  
JLL opposes the motion, arguing (among other
things) that the motion is a “transparent last-ditch attempt to drag JLL back
into this case through an eleventh-hour cross-complaint that should have been
filed years ago, if at all.”  (Opp. at
6.)
The Court has carefully considered the
arguments and evidence submitted by both sides and exercises its discretion to
grant the motion.  There is a substantial
overlap in the factual allegations of the FAC and the proposed cross-complaint,
and the interests of judicial economy would be served by allowing the cross-complaint,
rather than requiring Defendants to initiate a new action against JLL (and then
presumably seeking to relate and ultimately consolidate the two actions).  JLL actively participated in discovery for
several months in 2023, but if it needs additional time to complete discovery, JLL
may seek a reasonable continuance of the trial date to permit it to prepare for
trial.
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion
for leave to file its Cross-Complaint.
 
The Court
GRANTS Defendants Har-South Marengo Manager LLC
and Har-South Marengo Avenue LLC leave to file the proposed cross-complaint
attached to their motion as Exhibit C within 14 days.
 
Moving parties
are ORDERED to give notice.