 Case Number:  21STCV20658    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Dismiss for Failure to Prosecute filed by Defendant
Shahab Ebrahimian, D.D.S.
 
Tentative
The motion is CONTINUED to January 24, 2024.
Background
On June 2, 2021, Plaintiff Amal Gabriel (“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint against Sean Ebrahamian, D.D.S., Implants 4 Life, and Does 1
through 100 for personal injury and medical malpractice.
On November 2, 2022, Plaintiff’s counsel was
relieved as counsel.
On December 18, 2023, Defendant Shahab
Ebrahimian (erroneously sued as Sean Ebrahamian, “Defendant”) filed this motion
to dismiss complaint due to Plaintiff’s failure to prosecute. No opposition has
been filed.
Trial in this matter is set for January 24,
2024, at 8:30 am.
Legal Standard
Under Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. § 583.410, the court may, in its discretion, dismiss an action for
delay in prosecution if it deems such action appropriate under the
circumstances. In considering a motion for discretionary dismissal, the court
is guided by the factors outlined in California Rule of Court 3.1342, as
established in Corrinet v. Bardy, 35 Cal.App.5th 69, 71 (Cal. Ct. App. 2019.)
Rule 3.1342 states that a proper determination of a motion to dismiss for delay
in prosecution must consider: (1) The court's case file, declarations, and
supporting data from the parties, as well as the availability of essential
parties for service of process; (2) Diligence in seeking to effect service of
process; (3) Engagement in settlement negotiations or discussions; (4)
Diligence in pursuing discovery or other pretrial proceedings, including
extraordinary relief; (5) The nature and complexity of the case; (6) Applicable
laws and related litigation; (7) Extensions of time or delays attributable to
either party; (8) Court calendar conditions and earlier trial date
availability; (9) Whether justice is best served by dismissal or trial; or (10)
Any other relevant fact or circumstance.
“The court may
not dismiss an action pursuant to this article for delay in prosecution except
after one of the following conditions has occurred: (1) Service is not made
within two years after the action is commenced against the defendant. (2) The
action is not brought to trial within the following times: (A) Three years
after the action is commenced against the defendant unless otherwise prescribed
by rule under subparagraph (B). (B) Two years after the action is commenced
against the defendant if the Judicial Council by rule adopted pursuant to
Section 583.410 so prescribes for the court because of the condition of the
court calendar or for other reasons affecting the conduct of litigation or the
administration of justice.” (Code of Civil Procedure section 583.420(a).)
Discussion
Defendant
contends that the case was filed on June 2, 2021, and Defendant answers on August
17, 2021. (Motion, 5:3.) Plaintiff did not appear for her deposition despite it
being noticed several times. (Brooks Decl., ¶ 2.) Defendant contends that after
Plaintiff’s counsel was relieved, his counsel reached out “to move the case
forward or secure a dismissal” but never received a response. (Id., ¶
4.) Defendant served requests for admission, which he did not receive a
response to, and were deemed true by this Court by motion on October 6, 2023. (Id.,
¶ 5.) Defendant served a demand for exchange of expert witness information, and
designated its witness on November 6, and December 5, 2023, respectively;
Plaintiff has not served either. (Id., ¶ 6.)
 
Defendant claims
to be prejudiced by Plaintiff's failure to prosecute, and that they cannot even
evaluate the case for settlement due to the lack of Plaintiff deposition. (Id.,
¶ 7.) 
 
Rule 3.1342
states that a proper determination of a motion to dismiss for delay in
prosecution must consider: (1) The court's case file, declarations, and
supporting data from the parties, as well as the availability of essential
parties for service of process; (2) Diligence in seeking to effect service of
process; (3) Engagement in settlement negotiations or discussions; (4)
Diligence in pursuing discovery or other pretrial proceedings, including
extraordinary relief; (5) The nature and complexity of the case; (6) Applicable
laws and related litigation; (7) Extensions of time or delays attributable to
either party; (8) Court calendar conditions and earlier trial date
availability; (9) Whether justice is best served by dismissal or trial; or (10)
Any other relevant fact or circumstance.
 
With regard to
these factors, Defendant makes the following arguments:
 
 (3) Engagement in settlement negotiations or
discussions; 
 
Due to
Plaintiff’s lack of communication, Defendant contends settlement has been
difficult because he cannot evaluate the case and Plaintiff’s claims. 
 
(4) Diligence in
pursuing discovery or other pretrial proceedings, including extraordinary
relief; 
 
The Court finds
that Defendant has shown due diligence in continuing with the discovery process
by noticing Plaintiff’s deposition, serving request for admission, and
continuing with expert discovery. Defendant contends that Plaintiff has failed
to cooperate to provide Defendant with evidence to be sed against him. (Motion,
5:18-20.) Defendant contends he has been diligent in discovery and have not
delayed the case. (Id., 5:22-23.)
 
(6) Applicable
laws and related litigation; 
 
Defendant contends that he is “unaware of any other pending litigation under a
common set of facts or determinative of the legal or factual issues in this
case.” (Id., 5:23-24.)
 
(7) Extensions
of time or delays attributable to either party; 
 
Defendant has
not appeared to have delayed this case.
 
 (9) Whether justice is best served by
dismissal or trial; 
 
Due to the lack
of complete discovery, as alleged by Defendant, the Court finds that justice
would likely be best served by dismissal without prejudice.
 
After considering all of the evidence and argument, the
Court, on its own motion, CONTINUES the hearing on this motion to January 24,
2024.
 
If Plaintiff fails to appear at the trial, also set for
January 24, 2024, the case will be subject to dismissal pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 581, subdivision (b)(3) or (b)(5).
   
Conclusion
 
The Court, on its own motion, CONTINUES the hearing on Defendant’s
motion to dismiss to January 24, 2024, at 1:30 pm, in Department 29 of the
Spring Street Courthouse.
                                                                                                                                                                             
Defendant is ordered to give notice.  