 Case Number:  22STCV12426    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  29 Tentative
Defendant’s motions to compel Plaintiff Kim to respond to
Special Interrogatories (Set Two), Form Interrogatories (Set Two), and Requests
for Production (Set Two), and Defendant’s motion to deem admitted the matters
specified in Requests for Admission (Set Two), are all DENIED without
prejudice.
Defendant’s motions to compel Plaintiff Ko to respond to Form
Interrogatories (Set Two), and Requests for Production (Set Two), and
Defendant’s motion to deem admitted the matters specified in Requests for
Admission (Set Two), are all DENIED without prejudice.
Background
This case arises out of an alleged vehicle accident on
April 21, 2021, near the intersection of Hollywood Boulevard and Argyle Avenue
in Los Angeles, California.  On April 13,
2022, Plaintiffs Suk Jong Kim and Yun Kyung Ko (“Plaintiffs”) filed the
Complaint in this action against Defendants Phillip Benjamin Dunn (“Defendant”) and Does 1 through 10, asserting
causes of action for motor vehicle negligence and general negligence.  
On March 8, 2022, Defendant filed his Answer to the
Complaint.
On July 19, 2023, the Court granted the motion of
Plaintiffs’ counsel to be relieved. 
Plaintiffs are now representing themselves.
On August
4, 2023, Defendant served Plaintiff Kim with Special Interrogatories (Set Two),
Form Interrogatories (Set Two), Requests for Production (Set Two), and Requests
for Admission (Set One).  (Petrosyan
Decls., ¶ 6 & Exhs. A.)  Defendant
also served Plaintiff Ko with Form Interrogatories (Set Two), Requests for
Production (Set Two), and Requests for Admission (Set One).  (Petrosyan Decls., ¶ 6 & Exhs. A.)  Service of the discovery requests was by mail.  (Petrosyan Decls., Exhs. A.)  (The proofs of service also list a single
email address for both plaintiffs, but there is nothing before the Court that
verifies or confirms that either or both Plaintiffs agreed to accept service by
email at that address.)  
Plaintiffs
did not respond to any of the discovery requests.  (Petrosyan Decls., ¶ 8.)
On
September 26 and October 23, 2023, Defendant filed the four discovery motions against
Plaintiff Kim that were initially on calendar for January 3, 2024.  On September 26, 2023, Defendant filed the
three discovery motions against Plaintiff Ko that were initially on calendar
for January 8, 2024.  According to the
proofs of service, all seven motions were served by email only (in contrast to
the discovery requests, which were served by both mail and email). 
No oppositions have been filed.
On January 3, Plaintiffs appeared, as well as counsel for
Defendant.  Plaintiffs represented that
they had recently retained new counsel.  Based
on that representation, the Court continued the hearings on the four motions on
calendar for January 3 to January 23. 
The Court also advanced and continued the hearings on three additional
motions on calendar for January 8 to January 23.
Discussion
As a threshold matter, the Court finds that there is no
adequate proof of service of these motions on Plaintiffs.  Plaintiffs are not represented parties and so
are not subject to any mandatory provision for accepting electronic service
that applies to represented parties. 
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 1010.6; Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.251.)  Nor is there any evidence in the record that
Plaintiffs agreed to or consented to electronic service of court documents in
this matter.
Accordingly, in the absence of proper service, the
motions are DENIED without prejudice.
The Court expresses no views on the merits of the
motions.
Conclusion
Defendant’s motions to compel Plaintiff Kim to respond to
Special Interrogatories (Set Two), Form Interrogatories (Set Two), and Requests
for Production (Set Two), and Defendant’s motion to deem admitted the matters
specified in Requests for Admission (Set Two), are all DENIED without
prejudice.
Defendant’s motions to compel Plaintiff Ko to respond to Form
Interrogatories (Set Two), and Requests for Production (Set Two), and
Defendant’s motion to deem admitted the matters specified in Requests for
Admission (Set Two), are all DENIED without prejudice.
 
Moving party to give notice.  