 Case Number:  21STCV08164    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion for
Judgment on the Pleadings, filed by Defendant James River Insurance Company on
behalf of Christopher Harbonville. 
 
Tentative
The hearing on
the motion is continued.
Background
This case arises
out of an alleged vehicle accident on March 7, 2019, near Los Angeles International
Airport Terminal 6. Plaintiff Uyanga Tserenchimed ("Plaintiff") filed
the complaint in this action on March 2, 2021, asserting causes of action for
motor vehicle negligence and general negligence against Defendants Christophe
Harbonville, Rasier LLC, Rasier-CA, LLC, and Does 1 through 50.
On June 7, 2021,
Defendants Christopher Harbonville (erroneously sued as Christophe Harbonville),
Rasier LLC, and Rasier-CA, LLC each filed an answer.
On May 18, 2022,
James River Insurance Company (“JRIC”), the insurer for Defendant Christopher
Harbonville, filed a complaint in intervention. 
The Court has
received evidence that Defendant Harbonville died on or about July 10, 2020.  How or why counsel filed on answer on his
behalf, and how or why counsel did not learn of Defendant Harbonville’s death
until November 2023 (as represented to the Court), is not explained.
On December 6,
2023, Plaintiff amended her complaint to name “The Estate of Christopher
Harbonville” as Doe 1.
On December 18,
2023, JRIC, describing itself as “Intervenor for Christopher Harbonville,” filed
this Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings. 
On January 8, 2024, JRIC filed a request that the Court take judicial
notice of the death certificate of Defendant Harbonville. 
 
Plaintiff filed
her opposition on January 9. JRIC filed its reply on January 16.
Legal Standard
A motion for judgment on the pleadings is the
functional equivalent to a general demurrer. 
(Lance Camper Mfg. Corp. v. Republic Indemnity Co. of Am. (1996)
44 Cal.App.4th 194, 198; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(1).).  Like demurrers, motions for judgment on the
pleadings challenge the legal sufficiency of the allegations, not their
veracity.  (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins.
Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994). Any defects must either appear on the
face of the pleading, or else be taken be based on a matter subject to judicial
notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd.
(d); Bezirdjian v. O'Reilly (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 316, 321-22).  The parties’ ability to prove their
respective claims is of no concern.  (Cloud
v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 99.)  Though the Court must accept the allegations
of the complaint and answer as true (Gerawan Farming, Inc. v. Lyons
(2000) 24 Cal.4th 468, 515), it will not do so for “conclusions of law or fact,
opinions, speculation, or allegations contrary to law or [judicially noticed]
facts.” (Stevenson Real Estate Servs., Inc. v. CB Richard Ellis Real Estate
Servs., Inc. (2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1219-20).
Prior to filing
a motion for judgment on the pleadings, the moving party “shall meet and confer
in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject
to the motion.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 439,
subd. (a).)  The moving party must file,
with the motion, a declaration that states either that the parties met and conferred
or that the party who filed the pleading “failed to respond to the meet and
confer request of the moving party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in
good faith.”  (Id., subd. (a)(3).)  “A determination by the court that the meet
and confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to grant or deny the
motion for judgment on the pleadings.”  (Id.,
subd. (a)(4).)
Judicial Notice
JRIC requests
the Court take Judicial Notice of Defendant Chrisopher Harbonville’s Death
Certificate.   (Evid. Code, § 452.)  “The court will take judicial notice of
records such as admissions, answers to interrogatories, affidavits, and the
like, when considering a demurrer, only where they contain statements of the
plaintiff or his agent which are inconsistent with the allegations of the
pleading before the court.” (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co.
(1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604-605.) “In addition to the facts alleged in the
complaint, the court may consider matters which may be judicially noticed,
including court records.” (Barker v. Hull (1987) 191 Cal. App. 3d
221, 224.)
The
Court GRANTS JRIC’s request and takes judicial notice of Defendant Christopher
Harbonville’s death certificate.
 
Procedural
Timing
Plaintiff does
not argue that the motion is untimely.
Meet and Confer
Plaintiff
challenges the adequacy of JRIC’s meet and confer effort.  Before filing the motion, JRIC’s counsel sent
a single email; the email requested that Plaintiff dismiss JRIC, asked
Plaintiff to confirm within one day that she would dismiss JRIC, and stated
that if Plaintiff did not dismiss JRIC then JRIC “will need to file a motion
for judgment on the pleadings.”  (Agoncillo
Decl., ¶ 8 & Exh. H.)  
This is not a
sufficient effort to meet and confer.  Counsel
did not “meet and confer in person or by telephone” a motion for judgment on
the pleadings, and Plaintiff did not “fail[] to respond to the meet and confer
request of the moving party.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 439, subd. (a) & (a)(3)(B).) 
Indeed, JRIC never even made a meet and confer request.
The Court may
not grant or deny the motion based on a failure to satisfy the meet and confer
requirements.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 439,
subd. (a)(4).)  Accordingly, the Court
CONTINUES the hearing so that the parties may meet and confer as required by Code
of Civil Procedure, section 439, subdivision (a), and so that the moving party may
comply with the filing requirements of section 439, subdivision (a)(3).  
Discussion
As stated above, the Court is CONTINUING the hearing so
that the parties may meet and confer as required by statute.
 
For the guidance of the parties, the Court provides the
following TENTATIVE analysis of the some of the applicable legal issues.
 
First, neither party argues that Plaintiff’s cause of
action has abated as a result of the death of Defendant Harbonville.
 
Second, JRIC has not provided any basis for the Court to
conclude that Defendant Harbonville’s death terminates (or has any other effect
on) JRIC’s liability as insurer under the insurance policy issued to the
decedent.
 
Third, in general, upon the death of a defendant, the decedent’s
personal representative or successor-in-interest must be substituted into the
case, under the provisions of Code of Civil Procedure, section 377.41.  That has not been done here.
 
Fourth, Code of Civil Procedure section 377.50 provides
an exception to that general rule. 
Where, as here, the decedent was covered by insurance, the action “may
be commenced or continued against the decedent’s estate as provided in Chapter
1 (commencing with Section 550) of Part 13 of Division 2 of the Probate Code.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.50.)
 
Chapter 1 of Part 13 of Division 2 of the Probate Code
runs from section 550 through section 555. 
As is relevant here:
 
·       Section 550, subdivision (a), provides
that “an action to establish the decedent’s liability for which the decedent was
protected by insurance may be commenced or continued against the decedent’s
estate without the need to join as a party the decedent’s personal
representative or successor in interest.”
 
·       Section 552, subdivision (a), provides
that an action under this chapter “shall name as the defendant, ‘Estate of
(name of decedent), Deceased,” and that the summons may be served on the insurer.
 
·       Section 553 provides that the insurer
“may deny or otherwise contest its liability in an action under this chapter or
by an independent action.”
 
·       Section 554, subdivision (a),
provides that, with some exceptions, any claim for damages in excess of policy
limits are waived, and a judgment may be enforced only against the insurance
coverage.
 
Counsel for both
parties may wish to consider the above tentative analysis in connection with
the meet and confer required by statute.
Conclusion
The Court CONTINUES
the hearing on JRIC’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings for at least 21
days, to a date and time convenient to the Court and the parties, so that
counsel may meet and confer, and moving party’s counsel may thereafter file a
meet-and-confer declaration, as required by statute.
Moving Party to
give notice.