  Case Number:  20STCV41680    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     April 12, 2024              TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Edward D. Fagan v. Zhejiang Sunmarr
International Transportation Co. Ltd., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 20STCV41680            
 
(1)  
MOTION
FOR PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION
(2)  
MOTION
FOR ORDER DIRECTING PRESERVATION OF EVIDENCE AND ISSUANCE OF SUBPOENAS

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Edward D. Fagan
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): No response on
eCourt as of April 9, 2024
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for fraud that was filed on October 30, 2020. Plaintiff
alleges that he was the victim of a fraud scheme based in Nigeria.
 
            Plaintiff
moves for a preliminary injunction to prevent Defendants from disposing of
their assets, for an order directing Defendants to preserve evidence, and for
issuance of subpoenas.
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
            Plaintiff’s Motion for Preliminary Injunction is DENIED.
 
            Plaintiff’s Motion for Order Directing Preservation of
Evidence and Issuance of Subpoenas is DENIED. 
DISCUSSION:
 
Motion for
Preliminary Injunction
 
            Plaintiff moves for a preliminary
injunction to prevent Defendants from disposing of their assets. 
 
Legal Standard
 
“An injunction is a writ or order requiring a person to
refrain from a particular act.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 525.) “A preliminary
injunction may be granted at any time before judgment upon a verified
complaint, or upon affidavits if the complaint in the one case, or the
affidavits in the other, show satisfactorily that sufficient grounds exist
therefor.” (Code Civ. Proc.§ 527(a).) An injunction may be granted in the
following cases:    
 
(1) When it
appears by the complaint that the plaintiff is entitled to the relief demanded,
and the relief, or any part thereof, consists in restraining the commission or
continuance of the act complained of, either for a limited period or
perpetually.  
 
(2)¿When it
appears by the complaint or affidavits that the commission or continuance of
some act during the litigation would produce waste, or great or irreparable
injury, to a party to the action. 
 
(3)¿¿When
it appears, during the litigation, that a party to the action is doing, or
threatens, or is about to do, or is procuring or suffering to be done, some act
in violation of the rights of another party to the action respecting the
subject of the action, and tending to render the judgment ineffectual. 
 
(4) When pecuniary compensation would not afford adequate
relief.  
 
(5) Where
it would be extremely difficult to ascertain the amount of compensation which
would afford adequate relief.  
 
            . . . . 
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 526(a)(1)-(5).) 
 
In deciding whether to issue a preliminary injunction, two
factors must be considered prior to issuing a preliminary injunction: (1) the
balance of the harm to the applicant should the injunction not issue, compared
to the harm to the enjoined party should the injunction issue; and (2) whether
the applicant is ultimately likely to prevail on the merits. (Common Cause
v. Board of Supervisors (1989) 49 Cal.3d 432, 441442.)  A trial court
has broad discretionary powers to grant or deny a request for a preliminary
injunction if it does not act capriciously.  The court should exercise its
judgment in favor of the party most likely to be injured. (Robbins v.
Superior Court (1985) 38 Cal.3d 199, 205.)  In addition, the two
factors are interrelated: the greater the Plaintiff’s showing as to one of the
factors, the less that must be shown as to the other factor. (Butt v. State
of California (1992) 4 Cal.4th 668, 678.) 
 
//
Analysis
 
“Irreparable harm” arises when monetary damages would not be
sufficient to remedy the injury. (Wind v. Herbert (1960) 186 Cal.App.2d
276, 285; Code Civ. Proc. § 526(a)(4).) Injuries rising from wrongs of
“continuing character” may also constitute “irreparable harm.” (People ex
rel. Gow v. Mitchell Bros.’ Santa Ana Theater (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 863,
871.) An injunction preventing disposal of property is proper if disposal would
render the final judgment ineffectual. (Code Civ. Proc. § 526(a)(3); Wilkins
v. Oken (1958) 157 Cal.App.2d 603, 606-607.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff offers no basis to conclude that there is any risk of
irreparable harm to Plaintiff such that injunctive relief is warranted.
Plaintiff’s motion entirely lacks evidentiary support and presents no argument that
would carry his burden on this motion. Plaintiff is therefore not entitled to a
preliminary injunction.
 
Motion
for Order Directing Preservation of Evidence and Subpoenas
 
            Plaintiff moves for an order
directing the preservation or production of evidence pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 2035.030 and for an order directing the issuance of subpoenas
pursuant to section 2020.410.
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section
2035.030 entitles an individual who seeks to perpetuate testimony or preserve
evidence in anticipation of a future lawsuit to petition the Court for an order
authorizing discovery and the preservation of that evidence. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2035.030.) This provision, by its language, does not apply to an
already-pending proceeding.
 
As to Section 2020.410, that code provision describes the form of a
subpoena for production of business records to non-parties. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2020.410.) Plaintiff’s moving papers do not describe the non-party individuals
or entities from whom the records are sought or the categories of records which
are sought, as required by this section. (Id.) Put simply, the Court has
no means of determining from the papers what exactly Plaintiff is seeking by
this request. 
 
Plaintiff has therefore failed to demonstrate that he is entitled to
either order.  
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion for Preliminary
Injunction is DENIED.
 
            Plaintiff’s Motion for Order Directing Preservation of
Evidence and Issuance of Subpoenas is DENIED. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  April 12, 2024                                    ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 