 Case Number:  24STCV19831    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  G Defendant Blue Peak Mortgage, Inc.’s Demurrer to First
Amended Complaint
 
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Defendant Blue Peak Mortgage, Inc.’s Demurrer to First
Amended Complaint is CONTINUED to a
date to be determined at the hearing in Department G (Pomona).
 
Defendant Blue Peak Mortgage, Inc.’s Counsel is also
ordered to meet and confer with Plaintiffs Jian Ye Li and Yinglun Zheng’s Counsel
regarding the Demurrer and to file a supplemental declaration describing such
meet and confer efforts, including whether the attempts were made by
telephone, video conference, or in person, at least nine (9) court days
before the next scheduled hearing on the Demurrer.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is an action for fraud. On August 6, 2024, Plaintiffs
Jian Ye Li and Yinglun Zheng filed a complaint against Defendants Qisong Zhao;
Blue Peak Mortgage, Inc. (Blue Peak); Ka Man Chiang; Andrew P. Wing; Jian Qian
Zheng; Ka Sing Chiang; Corinna Cheng; WFG National Title Company (WFG); T.
Sitanggang; Joselyn H. Shin; any person or entity known or unknown; and Does
1-20, alleging the following causes of action: (1) cancellation of deed of
trust and any encumbrances, (2) cancellation of grant deed, (3) quiet title,
(4) fraud, and (5) negligence.
 
On September 13, 2024, Blue Peak filed a demurrer to the
Complaint.
 
On October 24, 2024, Ka Man Chiang, Wing, Jian Quan Zheng,
Ka Sing Chiang, and Cheng filed a separate demurrer and motion to strike as to
the Complaint.
 
On November 20, 2024, Li and Yinglun Zheng filed a First
Amended Complaint (FAC) against the same defendants as well as Defendants Tower
Escrow, Inc. (Tower Escrow) and Rena Wong, alleging the following causes of
action: (1) slander of title, (2) fraud, (3) cancellation of grant deed, (4)
cancellation of deed of trust and related instruments, (5) negligence, and (6)
quiet title.
 
On December 16, 2024, Blue Peak filed the present demurrer.
A hearing on the present demurrer is set for January 21, 2025, along with a CMC
and OSC Re: Failure to File Proof of Service as to the FAC.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Blue Peak demurs to Li and Yinglung Zheng’s entire FAC. For
the following reasons, the court finds parties did not adequately meet and
confer.
 
Legal Standard
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision
(a), prior to filing a demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet and confer in
person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached
that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” This section
further provides that “the demurring party shall identify all of the specific
causes of action that it believes are subject to demurrer and identify with
legal support the basis of the deficiencies.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd.
(a)(1).)
 
While Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision
(a)(4) makes clear failing to meet and confer is not grounds to overrule a
demurrer, courts “are not required to ignore defects in the meet and confer
process” and if the court determines “no meet and confer has taken place, or
concludes further conferences between counsel would likely be productive, it
retains discretion to order counsel to meaningfully discuss the pleadings with
an eye toward reducing the number of issues or eliminating the need for a
demurrer, and to continue the hearing date to facilitate that effort.” (Dumas
v. Los Angeles County Bd. of Supervisors (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 348, 355
& fn. 3.)
 
Discussion
 
In
this case, Blue Peak’s
counsel has provided a declaration stating counsel met and conferred with Li and Yinglung Zheng’s counsel on December
16, 2024. (Clark Decl., ¶ 2.) Because Blue Peak’s counsel fails to specify how counsel
met and conferred as required by Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41,
subdivision (a)(3)(A), a continuance of the hearing on the demurrer is
appropriate for parties to further meet and confer.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, Blue Peak’s demurrer is CONTINUED to a date to be determined at the
hearing in Department G (Pomona).
 
Blue Peak’s counsel is
also ordered to meet and confer with Li and Yinglung Zheng’s counsel regarding
the present demurrer and to file a supplemental declaration describing such
meet and confer efforts, including whether the attempts were made by
telephone, video conference, or in person, at least nine (9) court days
before the next scheduled hearing on the demurrer.