  Case Number:  23PSCV02111    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  G Plaintiffs Regino Sanchez Inzunza and Jazmin Loera’s Motion
to Enforce Settlement and Enter a Judgment Pursuant to the Terms of the
Settlement
Respondent: Defendant Kia
America, Inc.
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiffs Regino Sanchez Inzunza and Jazmin Loera’s
Motion to Enforce Settlement and Enter a Judgment Pursuant to the Terms of the
Settlement is DEEMED MOOT.
BACKGROUND
This is a lemon law action.
On July 14, 2023, Plaintiffs Regino Sanchez Inzunza and Jazmin Loera filed a
complaint against Defendant Kia America, Inc. (Kia) and Does 1-10, alleging a
single cause of action for breach of express warranty in violation of the
Song-Beverly Act.
On August 12, 2024, Sanchez
Inzunza and Loera filed a notice of settlement.
On December 3, 2024, Sanchez
Inzunza and Loera filed the present motion. A hearing on the present motion is set for January 21, 2025, along with
an OSC Re: Dismissal.
ANALYSIS
Sanchez Inzunza and Loera
seek to enforce the terms of a 998 offer accepted by Kia. For the following reasons, the court DEEMS MOOT
the motion.
Legal
Standard
Code
of Civil Procedure section 664.6 provides a summary procedure that enables
courts to enforce a settlement agreement by entering a judgment pursuant to the
terms of the parties’ settlement. In relevant part, it provides as follows:
“If
parties to pending litigation stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties
outside of the presence of the court or orally before the court, for settlement
of the case, or part thereof, the court, upon motion, may enter judgment
pursuant to the terms of the settlement. If requested by the parties, the court
may retain jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the settlement until
performance in full of the terms of the settlement.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 664.6,
subd. (a).)
A
writing is considered signed if signed by the party or an attorney who
represents the party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 664.6, subd. (b).)
Discussion
In this case,
Kia signed and accepted a Section 998 offer from Sanchez Inzunza and Loera on August 12, 2024.
(Devabose Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A.) Pursuant to the terms of the offer, Kia agreed to
pay $45,000.00 in exchange for Sanchez Inzunza and Loera’s surrender of the
subject vehicle. (Devabose Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A, ¶ 1.) The surrender of the
subject vehicle was to occur “on a mutually agreeable date no later than 60
calendar days after Defendant’s counsel has executed this Statutory Offer,
unless circumstances caused by Plaintiffs result in delay.” (Devabose Decl., ¶
3, Ex. A, ¶ 3.) The court also retains jurisdiction to enforce the offer
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6. (Devabose Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A,
¶ 7.)
Here, Sanchez Inzunza and
Loera claim Kia failed to perform pursuant to the agreement because Kia has yet
to confirm a date for the surrender of the subject vehicle. (Devabose Decl., ¶ 4-6.)
In opposition, Kia has provided proof that parties have since confirmed a date
for surrender of the subject vehicle on January 17, 2025. (Laughlin Decl., ¶
15, Ex. 11.) Accordingly, the court DEEMS MOOT the present motion.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, Sanchez
Inzunza and Loera’s motion to enforce settlement is DEEMED MOOT.