 Case Number:  23STCV06764    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  6, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV06764




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for an Order Compelling Defendant Target Corporation to Provide Responses to Request
  for Production, Set Four




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Brayden Medina Molina 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Target Corporation



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Plaintiff Brayden Medina Molina (“Plaintiff”)
moves to compel Defendant Target Corporation (“Defendant”) to serve verified
responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set Four. Plaintiff also seeks
issue and monetary sanctions. Defendant opposes and Plaintiff replies.[1]  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.300, if a party fails to
serve a timely response to a demand for inspection, the party making the demand
may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Code Civ. Pro §
2031.300 (b).) The party who fails to serve a timely response to a demand for
inspection waives any objection to the demand unless the court finds that the
party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance or
party’s failure was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300 (a)(1)- (2).) 
 
The Civil Discovery Act does not include a definition of
“substantial compliance,” and few cases have addressed the circumstances under
which a response will be deemed not in substantial compliance. (See St. Mary
v. Superior Court (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 762, 778 (St. Mary).)
Substantial compliance means actual compliance with respect to the substance
essential to every reasonable objective of the statute. (Id. at 779.)
However, substantial compliance should not be understood as requiring actual
compliance with every specific statutory requirement. (Ibid.)¿¿¿ 
¿¿  
The statutory
language “mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect” in the discovery statute
should be interpreted using the same general principles developed in
application of the identical language in section 473, subdivision (b). (Scottsdale
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 263, 275.) Although the
party moving for relief under section 473 has the burden to show that the
mistake, inadvertence, or neglect was excusable, any doubts as to that showing
must be resolved in favor of the moving party. (New Albertsons, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1420.)¿¿¿ 
 
Courts shall impose a monetary sanction against any party who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for
inspection unless the party acted with substantial justification or other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Plaintiff served Request for Production of Documents, Set Four
on Defendant on July 17, 2024. (Khedry Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. 1.) Plaintiff provides
limited information in the supporting declaration but asserts that Defendant
failed to produce documents. Plaintiff also states that while the Requests seek
documents ten years before the incident, Plaintiff explained to Defendant that
this scope could be tailored, and eventually was tailored, to the five-year
period before the incident. (Motion, 4.) 
 
In opposition, Defendant concedes that it did not provide timely
responses but that it served substantive responses, without objection, except
for attorney-client privileged information, on August 30, 2024. (Farley Decl. ¶
3, Exh. 1.) A verification was served on September 3, 2024. On August 20, 2024,
when responses were due, Defendant requested a one-week extension that
Plaintiff denied. (Id., ¶ 6, Exh. 2.) Counsel for Defendant asserts that
the August 20, 2024 deadline was missed due to work in another long-cause trial
that started on August 12, 2024. (Id. ¶ 4.) The Declaration of Daniel P.
Park, also counsel for Defendant, states that he intended to serve the
responses on August 20, 2024 if Plaintiff did not grant the extension. He
states he asked his assistant Ms. Brower to inquire about the extension. (Park
Decl. ¶ 4.) Ms. Brower then left for the day a few hours later, and since Mr.
Park was not copied on the email, and did not receive a response, he assumed
the extension was granted. (Id. ¶ 5.) Mr. Park apologizes for the
mistake and asserts he acted in good faith. (Id. ¶ 7-8.) 
 
In reply, Plaintiff acknowledges that responses were served on
September 3, 2024, but that Defendant has not produced any documents regarding
communications and that objections are waived. (Reply, 2.) 
 
Despite serving untimely responses, Defendant contends that it should
be allowed to assert objections based on privilege. However, Defendant did not
file a motion for relief from waiver. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300(a) [“The
court, on motion, may relieve that party from this waiver on its
determination that both of the following conditions are satisfied…”] [emphasis
added].) Additionally, even if the one-week extension was granted, responses
would be due August 27, 2024. Defendant provides no explanation why the
responses were not served until August 30, 2024 with verifications on September
3, particularly when counsel asserts that the responses were drafted on August
20, and counsel learned the following day that Plaintiffs had not agreed to an
extension. (Park Decl. ¶¶ 3, 6.) Accordingly, while one counsel’s engagement in
trial and attending to other matters in this case may constitute excusable
neglect, no explanation is given for the other counsel’s failure to serve
responses upon learning that no extension had been agreed upon. Defendant has
not established that its failure to serve a timely response was the result of
mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. The Court therefore grants the
motion to compel.
 
Plaintiff
requests $1,561.65 in monetary sanctions against Defendant which represents an
hourly rate of $500 and the $61.65 filing fee, pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure sections 2023.30, 2031.310, and 2031.320(c). (Notice of Motion; Khedry
Decl. ¶ 4.) The Court finds that sanctions are warranted. However, the amount
requested is excessive given the type of motion, the nature of the reply, and because
counsel can appear remotely at the hearing. Therefore, the
Court awards sanctions in the total amount of $1,061.65 (2 hours of attorney
time, plus the filing fee). 
 
Plaintiff
also seeks $1,000 in monetary sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure section
2023.010. (See Notice of Motion.) However, section 2023.010 does not set forth
a $1,000 monetary sanction.
 
Lastly,
the Court denies Plaintiff’s request for issue sanctions because no separate
statement was filed in support and issue sanctions are unwarranted here.[2]
 
             
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Responses to Request for
Production of Documents, Set Four is GRANTED. Defendant Target Corporation shall
provide verified responses, without objections, within 5 days.
 
The Court further GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions
against Defendant[3] in the reduced
amount of $1,061.65.
Said monetary sanctions are to be paid to counsel for Plaintiff within 30 days
of the date of this order.
 
Plaintiff
shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such. 


