  Case Number:  23STCV01680    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  6, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV01680




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Vacate Entry of Default




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Christina Palacios and Alma Rosa
  Palacios 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Sharan Trana Jones



 
BACKGROUND
 
On January 26, 2023, Plaintiff Sharan
Trana Jones (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Christina
Palacios and Alma Rosa Palacios (“Defendants”) for negligence based on a motor
vehicle accident. 
 
On November 21, 2023, default was entered against Defendants. Default
judgment has not been granted.
 
Defendants now move to vacate the entry of default under Code of Civil
Procedure section 473(b). Plaintiff opposes. No reply has been filed. 
 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Code of
Civil Procedure section 473(b) provides for discretionary and mandatory relief
from a default taken against a party due to mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect. A motion pursuant to this section must be filed no more than six
months after entry of the order from which relief is sought, and must contain
an affidavit of fault demonstrating the moving party’s mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect. 
 
“The six-month
time limit for granting statutory relief [under section 473(b)] is
jurisdictional and the court may not consider a motion for relief made after
that period has elapsed.” (Manson, Iver & York v. Black (2009) 176
Cal.App.4th 36, 42.) “The six-month period runs from entry of default, not
entry of judgment.” (Id. [citing Weiss v. Blumencranc (1976) 61
Cal.App.3d 536, 541].) However, under the mandatory provision of section 473(b)
for attorney fault, the six-month time limit runs after entry of judgment. (Sugasawara
v. Newland¿(1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 294, 297.) If a motion based on attorney
fault is timely, section 473(b) also requires the court to vacate the
underlying default entered by the clerk. (Id. at 295.)  
 
Under the mandatory provision of section
473(b), the Court shall vacate default and default judgment “unless
the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the
attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
473(b) [italics added].) “[F]or mandatory relief to apply the court must also
satisfy itself that the default (i.e., the failure to respond) was in
fact caused by attorney mistake or neglect.” (Cisneros v. Vueve (1995)
37 Cal.App.4th 906, 911 [emphasis in original].) Where the attorney did not
represent defendant “at the time the default was entered, […] as a matter of
law, […the attorney] was not the proximate cause of the entry of default as
defined in the ‘unless clause.’ Hence, […] defendants were not entitled to relief
under the attorney affidavit provisions of section 473.” (Id. at 912
[alterations added].) However, the attorney need not be the party’s attorney of
record at the time of the entry of default, but rather “the statute only
requires the affidavit be executed by an attorney who represents the client and
whose mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect in fact caused the client’s
default or dismissal.” (SJP Limited Partnership v. City of Los Angeles
(2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 511, 517.)
 
Additionally, under
the mandatory provision, there is no requirement that the attorney’s mistake or
inadvertence be excusable. (Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761,
770.) The affidavit also does not need to contain a reason for the mistake. (Martin
Potts & Associates, Inc. v. Corsair, LLC (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 432,
438.)  
 
There is a split among the appellate
courts as to whether a default is in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect if the client is also at some fault. “Some
appellate cases, based on the ‘not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake,
inadvertence, surprise or neglect’ clause in the mandatory relief provision of
section 473, have restricted the statute only to cases where the party against
whom the judgment is taken is ‘totally innocent of any wrongdoing and the
attorney was the sole cause of the default or dismissal.’” (Gutierrez
v. G&M Oil Company, Inc. (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 551, 557-58 [citing Lang
v. Hochman (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 1225, 1248] [emphasis in original].) “By
contrast, other Court of Appeal decisions have indicated that the provision is
available to clients who may be at some fault in allowing the dismissal or
default, just as long as the client is not guilty of intentional misconduct in
contributing to the adverse result. (Id. at 558 [citing SJP Limited
Partnership, supra, 136 Cal.App.4th at 520 and Benedict v. Danner Press
(2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 923, 932]; see also Martin Potts and Associates, Inc.
v. Corsair, LLC (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 432, 442 [collecting cases].)
 
In Benedict, the court reasoned
that “[o]n its face, section 473, subdivision (b), does not preclude relief
under the mandatory provision when default is entered as a result of a
combination of attorney and client fault.” (Benedict, supra, 87
Cal.App.4th at 928-29.) The court further noted that the cases requiring that a
client be “totally innocent of any wrongdoing” involve “intentional misconduct
by the clients.” (Id. at 930.) The court further distinguished cases
such as Cisneros, which did not involve a default “caused by the mistaken
or neglectful conduct of both the attorney and the client.” (Id.
at 931 [distinguishing Cisneros, supra, 37 Cal.App.4th at 911] [emphasis
in original].)[1]
 
“Because the law favors disposing of cases
on their merits, ‘any doubts in applying section 473 must be resolved in favor
of the party seeking relief from default [citations]….” (Rappleyea v.
Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 980 [citations omitted].) “Section 473 is
often applied liberally where the party in default moves promptly to seek relief,
and the party opposing the motion will not suffer prejudice if relief is
granted. [Citations omitted.] In such situations, ‘very slight evidence will be
required to justify a court in setting aside the default.’” (Elston v. City
of Turlock (1985) 38 Cal.3d 227, 233 [citations omitted] [superseded by
statute on other grounds].)
 
DISCUSSION
 
As an initial matter, here, default
was entered on November 21, 2023. Since this motion was filed on June 6, 2024,
it is untimely under the discretionary provision of section 473(b). The Court
assumes without deciding that the motion is timely under the mandatory
provision. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b) [requiring court to vacate entry
of default “whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months
after entry of judgment”]; Sugasawara, supra, 27 Cal.App.4th at
297.)[2]  
 
According to the Declaration of Christian E. Urbano, Defendant’s
counsel, Defendants’ insurer is Loya Casualty Insurance Company (“Loya”), which
retains the firm Martinez, Dieterich & Zarcone Legal Group (“MDZ”) to
handle litigation matters for Loya insureds. “Once a Complaint is filed against
a Loya insured in California, Martinez, Dieterich & Zarcone Legal Group
represents the respective defendant and is responsible for monitoring the Court
docket and contacting the respective defendant to determine whether and when
Defendant was properly served with a Complaint as a result of the automobile
accident.” (Urbano Decl. ¶ 4.) 
 
Defendants’ counsel has been employed as an attorney with the firm
representing Defendants since November 14, 2023. (Urbano Decl. ¶ 2.) On January
26, 2023, the complaint for this case was filed. (Urbano Decl. ¶ 3.) Counsel
declares that between February 2022 and mid-November 2023, over 50% of
attorneys and staff left MDZ which caused confusion over who was responsible
for which files. (Id. ¶ 5.) Defendant Alma Rosa Palacios was served the
complaint on July 11, 2023, and Defendant Christina Palacios was served on
September 25, 2023. (Id. ¶ 6-7.) Counsel further declares that “Counsel
for Defendants neglected to ensure that Martinez, Dieterich & Zarcone Legal
Group was in contact with the Defendants to determine if and when the Complaint
was served on Defendants.” (Id. ¶ 8.) 
 
Furthermore, he states: 
 
“My predecessors, and MDZ
staff, neglected to file an answer from the time the Complaint was filed until
the default was taken to determine if Defendant had been properly served with
the Complaint. Had the MDZ staff, filed an answer on behalf of Defendant prior
to November 21, 2023 the defendants’ default would not have been entered. My
predecessors neglected to ensure that MDZ staff were sufficiently monitoring
the Los Angeles County Superior Court docket and in contact with Defendants to
determine if and when the Complaint was served on Defendants. As a result of
MDZ’s staff’s mistake, a default was entered against Defendant in the subject
matter which could have been prevented had MDZ properly communicated with
Defendant to determine if he was served with the Complaint prior to the default
being entered.”
 
(Urbano Decl. ¶ 16-18.)   
 
In opposition, Plaintiff contends that it was Loya’s staff that
was responsible for the default, and not the attorney since Plaintiff was
communicating with Loya’s claim adjuster throughout this litigation. 
 
While Defendants’ counsel states he has been employed at MDZ since
November 14, 2023, he never declares that he was Defendants’ counsel and was
responsible for monitoring their case. Although he generally states that the
“loss of attorneys and staff created confusion as to who was responsible for
which files,” and that unspecified “predecessors, and MDZ staff, neglected to
file an answer,” no declaration of counsel is provided regarding the failure to
timely file an answer. (Urbano Decl. ¶ 5, 16.) Accordingly, counsel has not
established that MDZ was timely notified and retained by Loya to represent the particular
defendants in this case,[3] and that their attorney’s mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect caused the default.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court DENIES Defendants’ Motion to Vacate the default.
 
Defendants to provide notice and file a proof of service of such.
 


