  Case Number:  21STCV00245    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  T Motion for Summary JudgementMoving Party: Defendant County of Los Angeles Responding Party: Cross-Complainant City of CovinaTentative Ruling: GRANTBACKGROUND Plaintiff Adam Chacon (“Plaintiff”) claims he sustained injuries while riding a bicycle on the street in the City of Covina (“City”) due to uneven asphalt. The City of Covina cross-complained against the County of Los Angeles (“County”) for indemnity, contribution and declaratory relief.  It is undisputed that the County does not own, manage, maintain, repair, control, or inspect road where the incident occurred, which is owned by the City. However, there are trees abutting the roadway where the incident occurred.  The City contends that these trees are on County property and that their roots caused the alleged defect in the roadway.  MOVING PARTY POSITION The County moved for summary judgment on three grounds.  The County argues it is not at fault because the accident location was not under control of the County, that the alleged condition was not dangerous, and alternatively that County did not have notice of the alleged condition.  Because it is dispositive, the Court only addresses the question of whether there is a triable issue of fact as to whether the County had notice of the alleged defect.  OPPOSITION The City argues that the County’s motion for summary judgment should be denied because the County maintains trees in the wash basin adjacent to the street where the subject incident occurred. The City submits a tree in the County’s basin was “likely” the cause of defects on City’s roadway, specifically due to the roots from the large trees growing adjacent to the roadway (AMF 7.)REPLYThe County argues the City does not establish the tree caused or contributed to the incident, meaningfully dispute County’s facts, or provide additional facts to show a triable issue exists. ANALYSIS I. Summary JudgementSummary judgment is proper “if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  The moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment must show either (1) that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be established or (2) that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant may discharge this burden by furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required facts or (2) discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to establish an essential element of the plaintiff's case.  The elements of a cause of action for premises liability are the same as those for negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages.” (Castellon v. U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998 (citing Ortega v. Kmart Corp. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200, 1205; Civil Code § 1714(a)).) In order to impose liability on a property owner for a dangerous condition, the owner must have either actual or constructive knowledge of the dangerous condition or have been able to discover the condition by the exercise of ordinary care. (See Ortega, supra, 26 Cal.4th at 1206.) “Those who own, possess, or control property generally have a duty to exercise ordinary care in managing the property in order to avoid exposing others to an unreasonable risk of harm.” (Annocki v. Peterson Enterprises, LLC (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32, 37.)  Under Government Code § 835(a), a public entity is also liable for a dangerous condition if a negligent act of a public employee created the condition. (Metcalf v. Cnty. of San Joaquin (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1121, 1139 (“In sum, we conclude that negligence under section 835, subdivision (a), is established under ordinary tort principles concerning the reasonableness of a defendant’s conduct in light of the foreseeable risk of harm.”))The County has met its initial burden of making a prima facie showing that it did not have notice of the dangerous condition, citing evidence that there were no prior incidents and there were no reports or maintenance requests regarding the trees. (UMFs 19-22.) Thus, the burden is shifted to the City to raise a triable issue of material fact.  The City does not dispute any of the facts relied upon by the County regarding lack of notice and the City failed to provide admissible evidence that the County had actual notice of a dangerous condition or that the dangerous condition existed long enough for the County to have constructive notice.  Indeed, the City’s own employee, Hugo Guerrero, declared that the City had no notice of any complaints since at least 2017.  (Guerrero Decl., Para. 6)  Apparently conceding that there is no triable issue of fact as to notice, the City suggests that it “is entitled to argue that the County’s inspection system was not reasonable.” (Opposition, p. 5) This is true.  However, the City failed to support this argument with admissible evidence.  Notably, the City provides no evidence whatsoever as to whether the County’s inspection protocol was inadequate.  As such, the City failed to raise a triable issue of fact on this issue as well.  The dispositive issue of lack of notice might be overcome if the County’s tree caused the defect.  (County of San Mateo v. Superior Court (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 724; City of Chico v. Superior Court (2021) 68 Cal.App.5th 352.)  Indeed, the City does make this argument.  However, the City’s sole evidence supporting this theory was the declaration of City employee Hugo Guerrero who offered his opinion, based solely on review of photographs from the site, that the damage to the roadway was “likely caused” by the roots from the roadside trees.  The Court assumes the City is proffering his declaration as an expert opinion given that there is nothing to suggest that he was a percipient witness.  However, Mr. Guerrero’s declaration fails to provide any foundation regarding his ability to render any expert opinions other than that he has “many years of experience in Public Works” including years six years as a Street Maintenance Foreman.  The Court finds that this conclusory opinion based on nothing other than a review of photographs is not competent expert testimony and fails to raise a triable issue of fact as to whether the County caused the allegedly dangerous condition.  RULING Based on the foregoing, County’s motion for summary judgement is GRANTED. 