 Case Number:  21STCV15815    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  T Motion for Summary JudgementMoving Party: Defendant 824 Company Responding Party: Plaintiff Vaughan AlexanderTentative Ruling: DENYBACKGROUND This is a trip and fall case arising from a May 13, 2019 incident in which Plaintiff allegedly fell and sustained injury coming out of an elevator. Plaintiff alleges causes of action against Defendant 824 Company for general negligence and premises liability. MOVING PARTY POSITION Defendant argues Plaintiff is unable to establish one or more of the elements to the causes of action pled for General Negligence and Premises Liability. Specifically, that Plaintiff cannot establish a legal duty existed, or breach of such duty, because Plaintiff cannot show Defendant had actual or constructive notice of the alleged dangerous condition at Defendant’s commercial office property that caused Plaintiff to fall.OPPOSITION Plaintiff argues Defendant fails to present evidence directed to the issues raised in Plaintiff’s complaint and that there is a triable issue of material fact as to whether Defendant had actual or constructive notice of the subject elevator mis-leveling prior to the incident.REPLYDefendant argues it met its burden of proof by presenting evidence that Defendant conducted daily inspections of the elevator, retained an elevator company to perform monthly service and repairs, and that Defendant did not have actual or constructive notice of a dangerous condition of the elevator prior to Plaintiff’s accident.ANALYSIS I. Judicial Notice As an initial matter, the Court takes notice of the following:• Plaintiff’s Complaint filed on or about April 27, 2021 in Los Angeles County Superior Court, Case No. 21STCV158515• Defendant’s Answer filed on or about February 17, 2022.II. Evidentiary Objections Defendant submits one objection to Plaintiff’s Declaration of Eris J. Barillas and 12 objections to Plaintiff’s Declaration of Enrique Rivera. Defendant’s objections are overruled.III. Summary JudgementSummary judgment is proper “if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  The moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment must show either (1) that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be established or (2) that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant may discharge this burden by furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required facts or (2) discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to establish an essential element of the plaintiff's case.  The elements of a cause of action for premises liability are the same as those for negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages.” (Castellon v. U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998 (citing Ortega v. Kmart Corp. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200, 1205; Civil Code § 1714(a)).) In order to impose liability on a property owner for a dangerous condition, the owner must have either actual or constructive knowledge of the dangerous condition or have been able to discover the condition by the exercise of ordinary care. (See Ortega, supra, 26 Cal.4th at 1206.) However, the standard for premises liability concerning a property owner's responsibility to maintain an elevator in California is notably stringent. Property owners are expected to exercise the utmost care and diligence in maintaining elevators (Miller v. Schell (1957) 149 Cal.App.2d 346.) They are held to a standard of care that demands vigilance against even the slightest neglect that could be prevented by human care and foresight. This standard applies irrespective of whether the property owner personally inspects the elevator or employs others to do so; mere regular inspections do not absolve the owner of liability for elevator-related injuries if negligence can be proven.  In this case, Defendant has not met the initial burden of making a prima facie showing that it lacked actual or constructive notice of the defect. Because premises liability in this case concerns an elevator, Defendant is held to a significantly higher standard than “ordinary care” typically applicable to premises liability cases. To meet its initial burden, Defendant thus needs to establish that it exercised utmost care; however, Defendant has failed to provide admissible evidence to make a prima facie case that it did so.  Indeed, even evidence of hiring a third-party contractor on a weekly basis to make inspections is not necessarily sufficient to make a showing of utmost care. (See, e.g., Miller v. Schell (1957) 149 Cal.App.2d 346, 348 (upholding liability where Defendant contracted with respondents to oil, grease, clean and adjust the elevator weekly and to make any necessary repairs for an additional charge).)Even if Defendant had met its initial burden of making a prima facie showing that is did not have actual or constructive notice by exercising the utmost care with respect to its elevator, Plaintiff nevertheless would meet his burden of showing a triable issue exists that Defendant had notice. Namely, the deposition of Vaughan Alexander serves as admissible evidence both that there were misleveling issues and that Defendant had notice of the defect. (Plaintiff’s Evidence in Opposition p. 96.) As a result, there is a triable issue of fact with respect to whether Defendant had actual or constructive notice of an issue.RULING Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion for summary judgement is DENIED. 