  Case Number:  22SMCV00915    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  205     Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205  AARON CELIOUS,   Plaintiff, v.  CITY OF LOS ANGELES, et al.,    Defendants.    Case No.:  22SMCV00915     Hearing Date:  December 17, 2024   [TENTATIVE] order RE:   DEFENDANT ERNESTO MORALES’    MOTION FOR sanctions     BACKGROUND This action arises from a failed bid for two government projects.  Plaintiff Aaron Celious is the owner of Maroon Society Inc. (“Maroon”).  Maroon has assigned its claims to Celious.  (Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) ¶14.)  Maroon is in the business of providing data compilation, analysis and strategic services for both private and public sector entities.  (Id. ¶21.)  Maroon engaged in a competitive bid process for two different projects for Defendant City of Los Angeles (the “City”).  It was not chosen for either project.  (Id. ¶¶23-24.)   Defendant Ernesto Morales’ company, North Star Alliances LLC, was awarded the bid for one of the projects.  (Id. ¶¶8, 28, 82.)  Defendant Robin Engel’s company, Star Insights, LLC, was awarded the bid for the other project.  (Id. ¶¶9, 28, 170.)  Plaintiff alleges that Engel and Morales grossly and fraudulently misrepresented the qualifications and experiences of their companies, to obtain an unfair competitive advantage over Maroon.  (Id. ¶28.)   Plaintiff filed his original complaint in this matter on June 17, 2022.  Morales was not a named defendant in the original complaint. On December 8, 2022, Plaintiff filed a Doe amendment to the original complaint adding Morales as a defendant.  However, the original complaint and amendment did not contain any allegations against Morales.  Plaintiff then filed a first amended complaint (“FAC”) with the Court on July 17, 2023.  After receiving the FAC, Morales’ counsel met and conferred with Plaintiff about deficiencies contained in the FAC, which ultimately resulted in Celious filing a second amended complaint (“SAC”).  Morales demurred and moved to strike portions of the SAC. The Court, ruling upon such motions, ruled in favor of Morales with respect to all causes of action against Morales except one – the Interference with Prospective Economic Relations (“IIPER”) claim. Morales timely answered the SAC on April 8, 2024.  On July 8, 2024, Morales electronically served a C.C.P. § 128.7 Motion for Sanctions without filing it with the Court pursuant to the 21-day safe harbor required by the Code.  After receiving this Motion for Sanctions and before the 21-safe harbor expiring, Plaintiff filed a first motion for leave to file a Third Amended Complaint (“TAC Motion #1”) based on alleged “new” facts.  On August 20, 2024, the Court denied Plaintiff’s TAC Motion #1 in its entirety, stating: “Plaintiff seeks to add a new material fact as to when his economic relationship with the City began. He claims the relationship was from 2011 to 20[2]4. But Plaintiff has not offered a single explanation as to why he is only seeking to amend his complaint to allege a fact that he has purportedly known to him for 13 years.”  After losing the TAC Motion #1, on September 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed another motion for leave to file another proposed TAC (“TAC Motion #2) based on the same arguments regarding “new” facts that the Court had already rejected.  Morales filed and served his opposition to the TAC Motion #2 on September 17, 2024, arguing there were no “new” facts. Within days of receiving Morales’ opposition, Plaintiff withdrew the motion and cancelled the hearing date. Having the benefit of knowing what Morales’ arguments were and within a week after unilaterally withdrawing TAC Motion #2, Plaintiff filed yet another request to be allowed to file a TAC, titling it a Motion for Relief (“TAC Motion #3”).  In that TAC Motion #3 (which was really a motion for reconsideration), Plaintiff attached another proposed TAC with different facts in an attempt to plead around factual deficiencies highlighted by Morales’ oppositions to the prior motions.  Plaintiff also asked the Court to reconsider its prior ruling and allow him to file the proposed TAC claiming again that there were “new” facts.  Morales opposed the TAC Motion #3 because it did not comply with statutory requirements governing reconsideration, and because, again, there were no “new” facts justifying relief, as previously found by the Court. On October 23, 2024, the Court agreed, and denied the motion because Plaintiff’s ignorance of the law was not grounds for relief under Code Civ. Proc. § 473(b).  On the exact same day as his Motion for Relief was denied, Plaintiff filed yet another redundant motion asking the Court for leave to file another version of a TAC (“TAC Motion #4), setting a hearing date for this motion for November 19, 2024.  Despite the Court denying Plaintiff leave twice before on the same grounds, Plaintiff “renewed” his request again for leave to amend and claimed “new” facts by submitting another version of a proposed TAC wherein Plaintiff attempted to plead around arguments Morales had made when opposing the prior TAC motions.  Once again, Morales opposed the “renewed” motion on the ground the motion did not assert “new” facts justifying leave to amend.  A few days after receiving Morales’ opposition, Plaintiff once again completely abandoned his TAC Motion #4, and took the November 19, 2024 hearing off calendar.  And once again, after abandoning TAC Motion #4 and previewing Morales’ additional arguments for why the different facts highlighted in TAC Motion #4 still did not constitute “new” facts under the law, Plaintiff then filed another “renewed” motion in a fifth request for leave to amend with his TAC Motion #5.  On December 11, 2024, the Court denied TAC Motion #5.  This hearing is on Morales’ motion for sanctions pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. § 128.5.  Morales argues that sanctions are warranted because of Plaintiff’s repeated attempts to seek leave to file a Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”), based on arguments the Court has already rejected.  Plaintiff has also withdrawn and abandoned various motions seeking to leave to file the TAC, within days of receiving Morales’ opposition, only to refile the motions after having the opportunity to preview Morales’ arguments.  Morales requests monetary sanctions in the amount of $24,149.10. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE Plaintiff requests judicial notice of documents filed in this action, including (1) Motion for Leave to Amend filed on September 3, 2024 (“TAC Motion #2”); (2) Morales’ Opposition to TAC Motion #2; (3) Plaintiff’s Notice of Withdrawal of TAC Motion #2 filed on September 23, 2024; (4) Plaintiff’s Motion for Relief filed on September 30, 1 2024 (“TAC Motion #3); (5) Morales’ Opposition to TAC Motion #3; (5) Plaintiff’s Renewed Motion for Leave to Amend filed on October 24, 2024 (“TAC Motion #4”), and (6) Morales’ Opposition to TAC Motion #4.  The Court denies the request because it is¿unnecessary¿to ask the court to take¿judicial¿notice¿of materials previously filed in this case. “[A]ll that is necessary is to call the court's attention to such papers.” (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2016) ¶ 9:53.1a.)  LEGAL STANDARD CCP § 128.5 provides in part:¿¿ A trial court may order a party, the party's attorney, or both, to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred by another party as a result of actions or tactics, made in bad faith, that are frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary delay. This section also applies to judicial arbitration proceedings under Chapter 2.5 (commencing with Section 1141.10) of Title 3 of Part 3.¿¿ For purposes of this section:¿ “Actions or tactics” include, but are not limited to, the making or opposing of motions or the filing and service of a complaint, cross-complaint, answer, or other responsive pleading. The mere filing of a complaint without service thereof on an opposing party does not constitute “actions or tactics” for purposes of this section.¿¿ “Frivolous” means totally and completely without merit or for the sole purpose of harassing an opposing party.¿ Accordingly, to impose sanctions under Code Civ. Proc. § 128.5, “the trial court must (a) state specific circumstances giving rise to the award of attorney fees and (b) articulate with particularity the basis for finding the sanctioned party’s conduct reflected tactics or actions performed in bad faith and that were frivolous or designed to harass or cause unnecessary delay.”¿ (Childs v. PaineWebber Incorporated (1994) 29 Cal.App.4th 982, 996.)¿ Adequate notice is mandated by statute and by the state and federal constitutions.¿ (Id.) “In determining what sanctions, if any, should be ordered, the court shall consider whether a party seeking sanctions has exercised due diligence.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 128.5(f)(1).)¿ Where the action or tactic involves the making or opposing of a motion, § 128.5 requires a two-step procedure. (Martorana, 175 Cal.App.4th at 698.) First, the “‘moving party must serve on the offending party a motion for sanctions.’” (Id.) Service of the sanctions motion triggers the 21-day safe harbor period during which the moving party may not¿file the motion.¿(Id.) That is because the offending party may avoid sanctions by withdrawing the challenged pleading during the 21-day period. (Id.) Second, if the offending party does not withdraw the challenged pleading during that period, then the moving party may file the sanctions motion. (Id.) The “21 days is not a notice period. … It defines when the target of a sanctions motion can act without penalty and withdraw” an objectionable document. (Broadcast Music, supra, 75 Cal.App.5th at p. 606.)  The moving party must file the motion “outside¿the safe harbor period,” not “on day one of the safe harbor period, day 21 of the safe harbor period, or any day in between.” (Id.)  In other words, the “sanctions motion cannot be filed until the 22nd day after service of the motion, i.e., after the 21-day safe harbor period expires.” (Id.¿at 605.) Moreover,¿the law requires strict compliance with the safe harbor provisions. (Li v. Majestic Industry Hills LLC¿(2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 585, 593.) Failure to comply with the safe harbor provisions “precludes an award of sanctions.” (Martorana, 175 Cal.App.4th at 700; see¿Li, 177 Cal.App.4th at 594¿(“compliance with the safe harbor is a prerequisite to recovering sanctions”).) DISCUSSION  To the extent Morales seeks sanctions for Plaintiff’s repeated filings of motions seeking leave to file the TAC, Morales has not complied with the 21 safe harbor provision.  Accordingly, his motion for sanctions pursuant to § 128.5 is procedurally defective.   Notwithstanding, the Court concludes that to the extent Morales seeks sanctions based on Plaintiff’s repeated withdrawals of motions, that motion does not require compliance with the 21 safe harbor provision as it is not related to the filing of a motion.  The Court further concludes that Plaintiff’s repeated withdrawals constitute bad faith tactics, designed to take unfair advantage of his opposing party and are solely intended to cause unnecessary delay.   Plaintiff withdrew his motions so he could delay the Court’s ruling on the merits of the motions in the hopes he could artfully plead around the arguments Morales asserted in his oppositions.  Plaintiff waited to see what Morales’ oppositions said before deciding to take the motions off calendar, and he did this not once, but twice. This is clear evidence that Plaintiff acted in subjective bad faith.  Sanctioning Plaintiff is the only way to control the burdensome and unnecessary legal tactics Plaintiff has engaged in in the last several months with respect to filing repeated, substantially identical motions requesting leave to file a TAC. In considering the proper amount of sanctions, the Court starts with the lodestar which is the reasonable hourly rate multiplied by reasonable time spent.  ¿(Mountjoy v. Bank of America, N.A.¿(2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 266, 271–282.)¿To determine the reasonable¿hourly rate, courts consider the rate prevailing in the community for similar work. (In re Tobacco Cases I¿(2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 570, 582.)¿ Morales’ attorneys represent that their billing rate is $425, and they have over 20 years experience.  The Court concludes this rate is reasonable and lower than rates charged by attorneys with lesser experience in Southern California.  (See , e.g.,¿Talamante v. Kia Motors Am. Inc., 2019 Cal. Super. LEXIS 16100 at *3¿(hourly rate of $450¿reasonable¿for attorney of¿15¿years¿experience);¿Vivo v. Jcia Motors Am., 2019 Cal. Super. LEXIS 27540 at *20¿(hourly rate of $500¿reasonable¿for attorneys with 11-15¿years¿experience);¿Kim v. Hyundai Motor Am., 2019 Cal. Super. LEXIS 13109 at *5¿(hourly rate of $500¿reasonable¿for attorney with¿15¿years¿experience).) Morales’ attorneys attest they spent in excess of 13 hours drafting the Opposition filed in response to Plaintiff’s TAC Motion #2, which Plaintiff ultimately abandoned.  Morales incurred filing fees in the amount of $34.15 for the filing of that Opposition. Thus, the total costs and fees incurred by Morales for preparing and filing that Opposition was $5,559.15.  (Zappaterreno Decl. ¶ 9.)  Additionally, counsel spent in excess of 11 hours drafting the Opposition filed in response to Plaintiff’s TAC Motion #4, which Plaintiff also ultimately abandoned.  Morales incurred filing fees in the amount of $34.15 for the filing of that Opposition.  Thus, the total costs and fees incurred by Morales for preparing and filing that Opposition was $4,709.15.  (Zappaterreno Decl. ¶ 10.)  The Court concludes these fees and costs are reasonable.    The Court is also authorized to award Morales as the prevailing party on this motion, the reasonable expenses and attorney’s fees incurred in presenting the motion. (Code Civ. Proc. § 128.5(f)(1)(C).)  Counsel spent in excess of 15 hours drafting the instant § 128.5 motion, and anticipate spending in excess of two (2) hours preparing a reply, as well as attending the hearing on the Motion. Additionally, Morales will incur a filing fee of $34.15 for this motion. In sum, Morales will spend in excess of $7,259.15 for attorneys fees and costs associated with the instant motion. (Zappaterreno Decl. ¶ 12.)  Notably, Plaintiff does not dispute the monetary amount of attorney’s fees and costs claimed in the Motion.  Plaintiff simply states that no monetary sanctions should be awarded, which argument the Court has rejected.  CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS IN PART and DENIES IN PART the motion for sanctions.  The Court awards sanctions of $17,527.45 in favor of Morales and against Plaintiff.      IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED:   December 17, 2024                            ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court  