


[1] The FAC states that this is a PAGA action. (FAC ¶1.) It is unclear how this is a PAGA
action, an action which is filed by an employee against an employer
on behalf of the state for alleged violations of the California Labor Code.

 


[2] Based upon Plaintiff’s deposition, it appears he
would like to leaflet at the Centers.  
 


[3] The exact leaflet is attached to the declaration of
Paul Bresenden, who is a marketing expert. The revised leaflet is replete with
altered spelling, which according to Bresenden, is “commonly employed to avoid
censorship algorithms used by social media sites to filter out offensive words
or ideas.” (Bresenden Decl., ¶10.) For example, ‘financially’ is spelled as
‘finansially,’ ‘out of marriage’ is altered to ‘outside uv marriage,’ and
‘reproductive’ is altered to ‘reeproductive. 
 


[4] Plaintiff asks that bond be waived as he is
unemployed. (See Motion p. 18, citing Beaudreu v. Suprior Court (1975)
14 Cal.3d 448, 454, fn. 8 [“In Conover v. Hall, Supra, 11 Cal.3d at pp. 850—853,
114 Cal.Rptr. 642, 523 P.2d 682, we held that a
court granting an injunction had the discretion to relieve the plaintiff upon
the ground of indigency from the requirement of an injunction bond under section 529 of the Code of Civil Procedure despite
the fact that the plaintiff did not proceed formally in forma pauperis and that
the court did not conduct a formal inquiry into the plaintiff's assets where it
could reasonably conclude from the facts before it that the plaintiff was poor
and could not afford to post the bond.”].) The court would waive bond; also, there is no opposition
as to this point by Defendants. 
 


[5]
Plaintiff characterizes this relief as a prohibitory preliminary
injunction (Motion p. 3:21-22) whereas Defendants categorize the relief as a mandatory
injunction. “An injunction that requires no action and merely preserves the status
quo (a so-called prohibitory injunction) ordinarily takes effect immediately,
while an injunction requiring the defendant to take affirmative action (a
so-called mandatory injunction) is automatically stayed during the pendency of
the appeal.” (Daly v. San Bernardino County Bd. of Supervisors (2021) 11
Cal.5th 1030, 1035.) The substance of an injunction, not its form, determines
whether it is mandatory or prohibitory. (Opp. citing to Davenport v Blue Cross of Cal. (1997) 52 CA4th 435, 447, 60
CR2d 641.) accordingly, an injunction is mandatory, even if it is
framed in prohibitory language, when it requires the enjoined party to perform
affirmative acts. (Id. at pp. 447-448.) In Davenport, the preliminary
injunction that enjoined health care insurer from refusing coverage for
insured's medical treatment pending arbitration was in effect a mandatory
injunction because it required insurer to provide coverage. Plaintiff’s attempt
at distinguishing the case on the grounds that it does not involve freedom of speech
is inapposite namely as the court’s review of the seminal cases on freedom
of speech cited by the parties do not state which type of injunction is at
issue. Therefore, as
Plaintiff is requiring Defendant to alter its rules on content-neutral
speech, the court deems this a mandatory injunction. 
 


[6] Pruneyard involved a privately-owned, 21–acre shopping
center that contained walkways, plazas and buildings that housed 65 shops, 10
restaurants, and a movie theater. (Pruneyard, supra, 23 Cal.3d at p. 902.) The center
attracted about 25,000 daily visitors daily who used the shopping center's
numerous amenities. (Id. at pp. 902, 910-911) On a weekend, high
school students set up a card table in the shopping center's central courtyard
to discuss their concerns and gather signatures for a petition in support of
their opposition to a United Nations resolution against Zionism. Defendant
argues that Pruneyard involved “a
less intrusive type of speech (solicitation of signatures from behind a
courtyard table).” (Opp. p. 8:5-6.) The court is unpersuaded by this argument. Solicitation of signatures
entails more active participation by the patrons (i.e., engaging with
the activist and reading and signing papers) whereas leafletting
would not require active participation by a patron. In fact, Plaintiff
in his deposition states when he passes leaflets, “[t]he typical reaction is
probably maybe a blank face. They take it, and they walk off.” (Basileo
Decl., Ex. J [Salazar Deposition], p. 7 of 24 of PDF, emphasis added.) What is
more, Defendant’s own
characterization of Defendant’s activity is that it happens in an area removed
from any central congregating areas and in areas that do not require other
patrons to walk past these three stores to reach other stores. Furthermore,
the Pruneyard court reached the conclusion it did partly focusing on how
the students were soliciting signatures in an orderly manner. (Id. at
pp. 910-911.) Here, while Defendants maintain that “tenants have often
contacted [the] office to report and complain about the presence and activities
of political activists in the Centers, and have repeatedly conveyed their
expectation that my office attempt to remove these activists or attempt to have
these activists removed by the Redlands Police Department” (Bombardier Decl., P11.)
However, this declaration
does not state that (i) customers/patrons have complained, (ii) does not state
whether they have complained about Plaintiff’s activities specifically, and
(iii) when these complaints were made. The latter is of import as
Plaintiff testifies that he “only just beg[a]n” his activities and has leafletted
about seven times for a total of approximately 12 hours. (Basileo
Decl., Ex. J [Salazar Deposition], p. 9 of 24 of PDF, emphasis added.) Additionally,
Plaintiff testifies that while some at the fitness have complained about his
activities, “[n]o one ever expressed unhappiness.” (p. 7 of 24 of PDF.) Furthermore, while maintaining
the confidentiality of the sealed material, Plaintiff is seeking to talk with a
class of individuals who do not form the majority of those who visit the
Centers. Therefore,
as there is insufficient/no evidence that Plaintiff’s activities are causing a
substantial disruption, a blanket ban is unconstitutional. 


 


[8] Van was published on 9/11/2007 and Fashion
Valley was published on 12/24/2007; Fashion Valley does not cite to Van.

 


[9] It
is unclear why Plaintiff would maintain otherwise in reply. (Reply p. 4:6-8
[“Plaintiff did not request permission to leaflet at any specific area of the
Centers. He asked to leaflet at the Centers generally.”].) 
 


[10] Bombardier is the senior project manager at Majestic
Management Co., a division of Majestic Realty Co. (Bombardier Decl., ¶1.) 
 


[11] The majority opinion in Fashion Valley did not
cite to Albertsons, but the dissent did mention the case. 


[12] For this reason, whether Rule 34 is unconstitutional
is a moot issue.
 


[13] The opposition does not address either of these two
cases. 

