  Case Number:  24PSCV02047    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative
Ruling
 
(1)  
DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO SEAL DEFENDANTS’
OPPOSITION TO PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION is GRANTED. 
 
(2)  
PLAINTIFF ALEX SALZAR’S SECOND MOTION FOR
PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION AGAINST ALL DEFENDANTS is DENIED because there
is not a likelihood that Plaintiff will prevail on the merits as California’s
constitutional rights apply to common areas in a large shopping center and not
with an individual retail establishment within the shopping center (See Van v.
Target, infra). 
 
Background
 
This is a freedom of speech case.[1]
Plaintiff Alex Salazar alleges the following against Defendants MAJESTIC REALTY
CO.; REDLANDS JOINT VENTURE, LLC; and MOUNTAIN GROVE PARTNERS, LLC: Plaintiff
seeks to distribute flyers/leaflet about reproductive rights and
responsibilities from the male perspective at the Citrus Plaza (the “Plaza”) or
Mountain Grove (collectively, the “Centers”), which are shopping centers/mall.[2]
Plaintiff seeks to explain that men have a legal right to decide whether to pay
child support for a child born outside of marriage, a movement which he has
coined men’s eMANcipation.[3]
The Plaza, however, has declined to let Plaintiff leaflet. 
 
On June 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed suit.
 
On September 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed his verified first
amended complaint (“FAC”) for: 
 
1.    
VIOLATION OF LIBERTY OF SPEECH [Cal. Const. Art. I, §
2]
2.    
VIOLATION OF UNFAIR COMPETITION LAW [CAL. BUS. &
PROF CODE § 17200]
3.    
INJUNCTIVE RELIEF [CCP § 526]
4.    
DECLARATORY RELIEF [CCP § 1060]
5.    
PUNITIVE DAMAGES [CCP § 3294] 
6.    
ATTORNEYS’ FEES [CCP § 1021.5].
 
On October 3, 2024 (after withdrawing the first motion),
Plaintiff filed the instant motion for a preliminary injunction.
 
On October 24, 2024, Defendants filed a motion to seal their
opposition to the motion, in addition to the opposition itself.
 
On October 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed his reply.
 
Legal Standard
The purpose of a preliminary injunction is to preserve the status quo
pending final resolution upon a trial. (See Scaringe v. J.C.C. Enterprises,
Inc. (1988) 205 Cal.App.3d 1536.) The status quo has been defined to mean the
last actual peaceable, uncontested status which preceded the pending
controversy. (14859 Moorpark Homeowner’s Assn. v. VRT Corp. (1998) 63
Cal.App.4th 1396. 1402.) The burden of proof is on the plaintiff as moving
party. (O’Connell v. Superior Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 1452, 1481.) A
plaintiff seeking injunctive relief must show the absence of an adequate
damages remedy at law. (Code Civ. Proc. § 526(4); Thayer Plymouth Center, Inc.
v. Chrysler Motors (1967) 255 Cal.App.2d 300, 307.)
The trial court considers two factors in determining whether to issue a
preliminary injunction: (1) the likelihood the plaintiff will prevail on the
merits of its case at trial, and (2) the interim harm the plaintiff is
likely to sustain if the injunction is denied as compared to the harm the
defendant is likely to suffer if the court grants a preliminary injunction.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 526(a); Husain v. McDonald’s Corp. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th
860, 866-67.) The balancing of harm between the parties “involves consideration
of such things as the inadequacy of other remedies, the degree of irreparable
harm, and the necessity of preserving the status quo.” (Husain, supra, 205
Cal.App.4th at 867.) “[T]he greater the
... showing on one, the less must be shown on the other to support an
injunction.” (Dodge, Warren & Peters Ins. Services, Inc. v. Riley (2003)
105 Cal.App.4th 1414, 1420.)
The decision to grant a preliminary injunction generally lies within the
sound discretion of the trial court and will not be disturbed on appeal absent
an abuse of discretion. (Thornton v. Carlson (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 1249, 1255.)
A preliminary injunction ordinarily cannot take effect unless and until the
plaintiff provides an undertaking for damages which the enjoined defendant may
sustain by reason of the injunction if the court finally decides that the
plaintiff was not entitled to the injunction. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 529(a);
Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1150(f); City of South San Francisco v. Cypress
Lawn Cemetery Assn. (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 916, 920.)[4]
Discussion
 
Plaintiff seeks an injunction enjoining Defendants from
enforcing a total ban on free speech in the common areas of Citrus Plaza and
Mountain Grove Plaza. (Motion p. 19:16-18; see also Motion p.3:18-22.).[5]

 
1.    
Whether Plaintiff Will Prevail on the Merits? 

Article I, section 2, subdivision (a), of the
California Constitution states: “Every person may freely speak, write and
publish his or her sentiments on all subjects, being responsible for the abuse
of this right. A law may not restrain or abridge liberty of speech or
press.” Article I, section 3 states: “The people have the
right to instruct their representatives, petition government for redress of
grievances, and assemble freely to consult for the common good.” 
 
In Robins v. Pruneyard Shopping Center (1979) 23
Cal.3d 899 (Pruneyard), the California Supreme Court ruled that even
though the First Amendment of the Constitution does not apply to privately
owned spaces, the California Constitution does.[6]

Accordingly, “[a] shopping mall is a public forum in which
persons may reasonably exercise their right of free speech guaranteed by ...
the California Constitution.” (Fashion Valley Mall, LLC v. National Labor
Relations Bd. (2007) 42 Cal.4th 850, 869-870 (Fashion Valley).)[7]
With that, “[a] mall may not impose blanket bans on the time or place of free
speech unless there is proof that blanket bans are the only way to prevent
substantial disruption of normal business operations.” (Best Friends Animal
Society v. Macerich Westside Pavilion Property (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 168,
181 (Best Friends).) Instead, “[s]hopping malls may enact and enforce
reasonable regulations of the time, place and manner of such free expression to
assure that these activities do not interfere with the normal business
operations of the mall, but they may not prohibit certain types of speech
based upon its content, such as prohibiting speech that urges a boycott of one
or more of the stores in the mall.” (Fashion Valley, supra, 42 Cal.4th
at p. 870.) 
 
Notwithstanding, Van
v. Target Corp.[8]
(2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 1375, the principal case relied upon by Defendants, clarified
that not all private property, by its mere general invitation to the
public for designated purposes, loses its private character. (Id. at
p. 1377 [“The Pruneyard holding does not apply to the area
immediately surrounding the entrance of an individual retail store that does
not itself possess the characteristics of a public forum, even when that store
is part of a larger shopping center.”].) In Van, the plaintiffs filed
identical complaints against Target, Wal-Mart and Home Depot alleging, amongst
other claims, violation of the right to free speech. (Id. at p. 1379.)
The defendants filed a joint motion for summary judgment asserting that the
stores “were not public for a within the meaning of Pruneyard.” (Ibid.)
In granting the summary judgment, the trial court “evaluated the CHARACTER of
the property IMMEDIATELY IN FRONT OF THE STORES to determine whether
‘the holding in Pruneyard appl[ies] to the ENTRANCES, APRONS and
SIDE ENTRANCE PERIMTERS of retail establishments that may be part of larger
shopping centers.’ On the basis of undisputed evidence that the apron areas
did not contain common areas such as plazas or courtyards, coupled with
evidence that many stores used that area to display items for sale, the trial
court concluded ‘that the
aprons and perimeters of these establishments have become, in many instances, an
extension of the store itself.” (Van, supra, 155 Cal.App.4th
at p. 1387, emphasis and capitalization added.) (The ‘apron’ is defined as “the
area immediately in front of the store.” Id. at p. 1379.) The trial
court also determined that “while respondents had opened their property to the
shopping public, appellants ‘offered no evidence that the [respondents'] stores themselves are inviting
the public to congregate, meet friends or be entertained.’ It
reasoned that the restaurants or video arcades contained in some stores DID
NOT IMBUE those stores with the attributes of a public forum. Finally, it
noted that ‘Since the [respondents'] stores usually only have one or two
entrances there is a greater risk than in Pruneyard that
defendants will be identified with [appellants'] message or that shoppers will
be unable to avoid [appellants] when entering or exiting the stores.’”  (Id. at p. 1388, emphasis and
capitalization added.) The appellate court affirmed the trial court’s ruling
noting that the “stores' invitation to the public is to purchase
merchandise and, respondents' interest in maintaining control over the area
immediately in front of their stores outweighs society's interest in using
those areas as public fora.” (Id. at p. 1390.) The court noted it
was “[un]persuaded by
appellants' central argument that the presence of respondents' stores in
larger, Pruneyard-type shopping centers alters this balance no
particular societal interest is promoted by using the stores for expressive
activity.” (Ibid.)
 
Here, the Plaza, which is located within a 1200-acre area
known as the doughnut hole.  It occupies
about 53 acers and offers 544,520 square-feet of retail space. Defendants
describes the Plaza as “the premier regional power center in the heart of the
Inland Empire” as it “serves a growing population of more than 678,872
residents living in a 10-mile radius. (FAC ¶19.) Plaintiff specifically seeks
to leaflet five (5) to ten (10) feet from the entrances of a Target, a
Harkins movie theater, and a 24-Hour Fitness gym. (Salazar Deposition, pp.
19-20 of 24 of PDF.)[9]
As to their configuration, the Target, movie theatre, and gym are all
accessible directly from adjacent parking lots without the need for patrons
to walk past other stores. (Bombardier Decl., ¶23.)[10]
Additionally, Targets, a movie theatre, and a gym are generally not public
places that are used for purposes of assembly, communicating thoughts between
citizens, and discussing public questions. Generally, in all three of
those places (Target, theatre, and gym), individuals go to conduct their
activities in silence for an allotted amount of time (i.e.,
run errands, watch a movie (in silence) with a set time, and exercise for a
certain amount of time). The mere fact that one may in conducting
those activities happen to converse with others does not transform those
areas into a public forum. (See Albertson’s, Inc. v. Young (2003) 107
Cal.App.4th 106, 121 [“[A] location will be considered a quasi-public forum
only when it is the functional equivalent of a traditional public forum as a
place where people CHOOSE to come and meet and TALK and spend time.”
(emphasis and capitalization added.)[11]
 
Plaintiff, however,
fails to address the Van case despite being raised by Defendants in
response to Plaintiff’s first motion. 
 
Additionally, Plaintiff’s FAC and
motion focuses on Mountain Grove, which is a mixed-use development immediately
adjacent to Citrus Plaza. In late 2019, Majestic added a 17-building, 281-unit
apartment complex that includes a resort style pool, gym, clubhouse and dog
park. (FAC ¶20.) In Opposition, however, Defendants maintain that
the Marriot Hotel and Summit Apartments relied on by Plaintiff are not
affiliated with the Centers. (Opp. p. 10, see also Bombardier Decl., ¶24.) The
Reply also fails to address this point. 
 
All in all, a synthesis of the cases provides that
California’s constitutional rights apply to public or common areas in a
large shopping center and not with an individual retail establishment within or
without the shopping center or with the property or privacy rights of a
homeowner. 
 
Thus, as Plaintiff seeks to petition in the aprons of certain
centers and not a common area, Plaintiff will likely not prevail on the merits.[12]
 
2.    
Balancing of the Harms
 
Assuming there was a
likelihood of prevailing on the merits, the balancing of the harm would weigh
in Plaintiff’s favor. 
 
On the one hand, “[m]ost courts consider the
infringement of a constitutional right enough and require no further showing of
irreparable injury.” (Motion p. 16, quoting Free the Nipple-Fort Collins v.
City of Fort Collins (10th Cir. 2019) 916 F.3d 792, 805, citing 11A Charles
A. Wright & Arthur R. Miller, Federal Practice & Procedure § 2948.1 [3d
ed. & Nov. 2018 update.].) 
 
On the other hand, Defendants’ harm is largely hypothetical
and unsupported by compelling evidence. In fact, if as Defendants argue
Plaintiff’s mode of activism—leafletting—is outdated such that it is less
receptive to patrons, that but further shows patrons are more likely to ignore
or otherwise be unaffected by Plaintiff’s activism. Furthermore, Defendants’
concerns with littering and maintaining a certain “guest experience” been
rejected as harms by California and federal courts alike. (See e.g., Motion p.
13 citing to Snatchko v. Westfield LLC (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 469, 489
[“Nevertheless,
accepting the validity of Westfield's concerns, we find providing a
“stress-free shopping atmosphere” for patrons is not a compelling interest
compared to the free speech rights of other individuals at the mall.”]; see
also Motion p. 13, quoting Schneider v. State (1939) 308 U.S. 147, 162
[“We are of opinion that the purpose to keep the streets clean and of good
appearance is insufficient to justify an ordinance which prohibits a person
rightfully on a public street from handing literature to one willing to receive
it.”].)[13]
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing—namely following the principles set
forth in Van—the motion is DENIED. 


