


[1] Later, CAG acknowledges, however, Defendants did
plead this issue in the fifteenth affirmative defense to their answer, noting
that this issue is pleaded by Defendants merely “as a matter of law.”  


[2] To the extent regulatory input is required, a request
can be made to OEHHA for guidelines, under 27 CCR sec. 25203(a). (Unless
otherwise noted, all further references to sections are to 27 CCR.) OEHHHA can
then issue a “safe use” determination under sec. 25204. 


[3] Defendants point out that the person who conducted
this survey, Walter Meneses, also had seemingly biased opinions about eating
habits based upon race.  


[4] Though on this motion the court does not reach how
sec. 25721 (d)(2) applies to the facts here, it is not clear to at least this
bench officer that (d)(2) does apply here as a matter of statutory
construction. In the absence of the June 16 ruling, this court would likely conclude
that (c)(2), not (c)(1), is applicable and that therefore (d)(2) (and the
geographic subpopulation analysis) would not come into play at all. In that
context, the Court would not reach the issue of whether it would be “reasonably
anticipated” that there could also be a subpopulation analysis along the lines
of ethnicity. 
          More specifically, it is not clear
why (c)(1) would apply here where it is (c)(2) that concerns products. If the
Legislature intended products to be covered by (c)(1) there would be no reason
for (c)(2). Reading (c)(1) to apply to products would not make sense because
then there would be different ways to define the level of exposure – as OEHHA
recognized at p. 84 of the FSOR. In turn, (d)(2), in its references to air and
water intake, and to subpopulations based on geography, seems to be referring
to environmental exposure, not exposure from products. It is not clear how air
and water intake would be relevant to analyzing exposure levels in products. This
would explain why (c)(1) does not reference (d)(2). 
          While the Court recognizes that OEHHA
also refers at p. 84 of its FSOR to subpopulations concerning products in its interpretation
of (d)(2), it then goes on to state, seemingly inconsistently, that “[s]ubsection
(c)(1) does not apply to exposures to consumers, since that paragraph refers to
the “average rate” of intake…Accordingly, subsection (c)(2) of this section
provides assumptions for exposure resulting from the consumption of goods or
consumer products…The reasonably anticipated rate of consumption by the product
user, not the per capita consumption of the general population, is the
standard. Data on the rate of intake should be based on the data available for
general categories of products, such as the U.S. Department of Agriculture Home
Economic Research Report on Foods Commonly Eaten by Individuals; Amount per day
and amount per eating occasion, where available.”   
            


[5] Both (c)(2) and (d)(2) concern what exposure would be
“reasonably anticipated.” Neither (c)(2) nor (d)(2) are looking at the general
population in any event: (c)(2) looks at those who use the product; (d)(2)
looks at subpopulations in any geographic area. 

