  Case Number:  BC665798    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  200 LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT 
WEST DISTRICT -
BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE 
DEPT. 200
 
TENTATIVE
RULING ON PLAINTIFF’S MOTION IN LIMINE No. 9 AND MOTION RE: STATUTE OF
LIMITATIONS AND ON DEFENDANTS’ TWO MOTIONS TO STRIKE TESTIMONY  
 
Consumer Advocacy Group
v. Gel Spice Company, et al., Case No. BC 665798
Hearing Date: May 7,
2024, 8:30 a.m. 
 
 
BACKGROUND AND STATEMENT OF CONTENTIONS 
 
          On April 15,
2024, the Court heard both sides’ Opening Statements at trial. It was apparent
to the Court that there might be several legal determinations that could either
foreclose the need for testimony, at least limit or shorten examination of
witnesses or provide guidance as to what was relevant. The parties stipulated the
following day that each side might then file two such motions to address those
legal issues that were now amenable to disposition and trial was recessed to
allow the parties to file and oppose those motions. 
 
Separation of Powers 
 
 
           On April
24, 2024, Plaintiff Consumer Advocacy Group (“CAG”) filed its Motion in Limine
No. 9 for an order excluding evidence related to Separation of Powers. CAG
contends this issue was not pleaded,[1]
was not part of Third Amended Case Management Order and is in any event based
upon misstatements concerning the law, CAG’s position and what the Court is
required to decide. 
 
          As to the
last point, the Court must decide what level of lead and inorganic arsenic are
in the products and the rate of intake of the products by consumers. Sub-issues
for the first issue are test results and for the second issue which users
should be considered. These decisions are merely applying the law to the facts
that is the principal function of courts. They are not “legislative.” More
specifically, the court is not after the fact imposing regulations or acting as
“scientific regulatory board.” Indeed, there is already a regulatory body in
place, the Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment (“OEHHA”), that
determines the level of lead permitted.[2] Separation
of powers is a legal issue for which testimony is not required. 
         CAG
asserts that the reasons Defendants contend there is this issue are without
merit: First, there is nothing improper about reassignment of executive
functions to private enforcers. (See Nat’l Paint & Coatings Ass’n
v. State of Calif. (1998) 58 Cal.App.4th 753, as well as Calif.
Business & Industrial Alliance v. Becerra (2022) 80 Cal.App.5th
734, 747)) Second, the court does not have to make post hoc determinations or
fill in the blanks as to the requirements Defendants must follow to comply with
the law. (See Monsanto v. OEHHA (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th
534, 551 (finding that Prop 65 does not leave fundamental policy decisions open
to others or fail to provide adequate direction for implementation by delegating
various powers to OEHHA))  
 
          For these
reasons, CAG concludes that testimony concerning Separation of Powers is
irrelevant to whether Defendants’ spices fall within a safe harbor – which is
what is at issue. 
 
          CAG also
argues in the same motion at length concerning how the rate of intake should be
measured, including what section of the CCR to apply and use of subpopulations.
 Though this has nothing to do with
Separation of Powers, it is relevant to this case: CAG contends: 
 
          First, the
assumptions in sec. 25721(d) are applicable in this case to calculate
anticipated rate of exposure because that section is referred to in sec.
25821(c)(1). The significance of 25721(d) is its reference in subsec. (2) to
subpopulations to determine rate of intake – which theory CAG is relying on in this
case. (By contrast, sec. 25821(c)(2) does not reference use of sec. 25721(d)
and concerns exposures to consumer products where (c)(1) does not have that
limitation.) Hence, there is an issue whether (c)(1) or (c)(2) is applicable
here. CAG argues (c)(1) applies based on OEHHA stating at pp. 84-85 of its
Final Statement of Reasons (“FSOR”) that (d)(2) concerns products, notwithstanding
that sec. 25821(c)(2) concerning consumer products does not reference sec.
25721(d)(2).  
 
          Second, the
subpopulation analysis referred to in sec. 25721(d)(2) is not limited solely to
a geographic area, as it is in (d)(1) concerning environmental exposure. Hence,
CAG can proceed with its intended ethnic, as opposed to geographic,
subpopulation analysis related to spices.  In addition, (d)(2) is not limited to
environmental exposure, but also to products. In this regard, CAG contends the
ruling of Judge Beaudet of June 16, 2022 is “law of the case.”  
 
          On May 1,
2024, Defendants filed their opposition to CAG’s Motion in Limine No. 9. They
make the following principal arguments: 
 
          First, the
fifteenth affirmative defense concerning in part separation of powers states
specifically that it is brought on the basis that the statute is
unconstitutional both on “their face and as applied to Plaintiff and its
counsel…” The same “as applied” defense is asserted in para. 22 of the Answer. Hence,
this is not a legal issue the Court can now decide, consistent with their
Opening Statement.  
 
          Second,
Judge Beaudet did not rule on the separation of powers defense even though she
ruled on other Constitutional issues. 
 
          Third, sec.
II B of the CMO provides that Phase 2 of trial will include “(c) all other
affirmative defenses asserted by Defendants in their Answers or amended Answers.”
Defendants note, however, that separation of powers is not listed as one of the
remaining defenses in this section of the CMO. 
          Fourth, how
CAG is pursuing its claim in this case demonstrates why according to Defendants
the private enforcement model is an improper delegation of power, including by CAG
(a) basing its claim on a “best by date” on each bottle theory rather than
testing by source lots and averaging, per FDA policy, and (b) claiming a
violation based on medicinal use rather than as a food.  
 
          Fifth, reliance
on determinations by OEHHA are not viable means to effectively regulate the
statute where among other things they are not binding where a notice of
violation has been served. In turn, the difficulties of litigation demonstrate
further why in its view courts should not be the ultimate regulator. 
 
         Sixth, Nat’l
Paint, supra was a facial challenge and therefore does not preclude
Defendants asserting an “as applied” claim. Monsanto, supra does not
bind Defendants here where that case concerned listing of chemicals – a
different issue than that involved here.  
 
 
Statute of Limitations 
 
 
          On April
24, 2024, CAG filed a motion concerning the statute of limitations. CAG argues
that Defendants already stipulated to the timeliness of the complaint by way of
the order filed August 30, 2019, the Third Amended CMO filed October 20, 2020
and the Joint Trial Plan filed in March, 2024. The August 30, 2019 stipulation
recites that the issues within the scope of Phase One included “(g) whether any
of Plaintiff’s claims are barred by the statute of limitations.” The parties
stipulated that: “All Defendants agree to stipulate to Phase One of this case
in its entirety in favor of CAG.”  Para.
10 of the Joint Stipulation of Facts also states: “…CAG’s claims are not barred
by the statute of limitations.” 
 
          Moreover,
even if Defendants did not so stipulate, the action is timely: The statute of
limitations runs from the last alleged violation, not when the first violation
occurred. (CAG v. Kintetsu (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 953, 981) A
Prop 65 violation is like a continuing nuisance and action can be brought for
each violation until the nuisance is abated. Hence, where the last date of sale
of the products is what is relevant and this meets the one-year statute of
limitation.  
 
          On May 1,
2024, Defendants filed their opposition to CAG’s statute of limitations motion.
Defendants assert that they are not now asserting statute of limitations as a
defense but rather two distinct other defenses; namely, first, that CAG’s
alleged unreasonable delays and use of a “best by” theory prejudices them and
substantiates their fifth affirmative defense of  laches, and second, that the four examples of
alleged bad faith actions by CAG constitute an abuse of its private enforcer
status, as asserted in their twenty-third affirmative defense.  
 
 
Lead Chromate and other testing issues 
 
 
           On April
24, 2024, Defendants filed a motion to strike Plaintiff’s lead chromate
testimony, bar use of new test result, and for order to Plaintiff to produce
withheld tests related to Gel Spice’s seven spices. 
 
          First, Defendants
argue lead chromate is irrelevant because lead chromate is a lead compound.
Lead compounds are only a listed chemical for purposes of cancer, not reproductive
toxicity. Reproductive toxicity is focused only on (unbound) lead. Where the
safe harbor for reproductive toxicity is significantly lower than for cancer,
it is therefore not necessary to hear about lead compounds. 
 
          Second, Defendants
request that the Court exclude CAG’s trial exhibits 14, 15 and 199 and
testimony of Marcus and Melikyan on these exhibits concerning lead chromate
(and its significance in “Cinnamon III”) be stricken as these documents were
not produced in response to discovery. The Court already entered an order
excluding all documents not produced in response to discovery. Further, the
Court should exclude claims that Defendants “adulterated” their products based
on these exhibits. 
 
          Third, Defendants
contend that the above-referenced exhibits reveal that CAG tested spices at
Brooks Applied Lab – which products were not previously produced. These results
show that the lead content for market Pantry Ground Turmeric was significantly
lower than the lead content of other samples of this product GAG tested. The
foregoing demonstrates cherry picking of results and withholding
exculpatory data. Hence, CAG should be ordered to produce these test results
prior to Marcus testifying concerning this testing. 
 
          On May 1,
2024, CAG filed its opposition to Defendants’ motion to strike lead chromate
testimony and concerning test results. Initially, they acknowledge that Exhibit
14 was erroneously not produced, should be excluded and testimony based on it
stricken.  On the other hand, they argue
that the purpose of motions was to determine if testimony could be shortened,
not to allow for a motion to compel production of documents that is long after
the discovery cut-off. Moreover, even if the request was not too late,
Defendants cannot contend that the documents were withheld because they were
not requested. Defendants are seeking to expand the definition of what was
requested from how the parties have been defining the scope of discovery. 
 
          Further,
CAG argues that Defendants are improperly seeking to thereby exclude relevant
portions of Dr. Melikyan’s testimony as to whether lead is naturally occurring
or rather results from human activity and relatedly concerning alleged yellow
pigment adulteration of turmeric with chromium. CAG argues that the designation
of Melikyan reflected he would opine on these issues and that this motion is a
disguised means of rectifying failure to ask him questions on these subjects at
his deposition. CAG explains that this subject is relevant to its having
designated specific bottles of spice for determination rather than relying on source
spices for averaging.  
 
          Finally,
CAG notes Exs. 15 and 199 are the same report, were offered merely to avoid a
claim that they should have been produced and are not material to its case. 
 
 
Ethnic subpopulation theory 
 
 
          On April
24, 2024, Defendants filed a motion to strike evidence that supports CAG’s
“ethnic subpopulation” theory. CAG seeks to introduce evidence of the results
of a survey of persons who “look” Asian or Middle Eastern concerning the level
of turmeric they consume for purposes of showing that the use of turmeric at
this level is beyond what is permitted without labelling of the product. Defendants
contend this theory is irrelevant for at least the following reasons: 
 
          First, the
relevant statute for the purposes here of a consumer product, sec. 25821(c)(2),
does not turn on whether a subpopulation uses a product more than the average
use of the product but only on “average” users of the product. It is sec. 25821(c)(1),
not (c)(2), that references sec. 25721(d)(2) (which references subpopulations.)
Sec. 25821(c)(1), however, unlike (c)(2), is not specifically directed at
consumer products. Moreover, the provisions in (d)(2)(A) and (B) as to air and
water and gestation period infer environmental exposure not exposure through a
product. Hence, there should be no reference to any subpopulation
analysis.  
 
          Second, to
the extent that sec. 25721(d)(2) is applicable here, consistent with Judge
Beaudet’s ruling, and is not solely addressing environmental exposure, its
reference to subpopulations is based upon geographic proximity to the
source of the exposure as opposed to in the general population, not
subpopulation based on ethnicity. (d)(2) does not mention ethnicity at
all. In her ruling of June 16, 2022, Judge Beaudet did not reach the issue of
whether CAG could use this theory in this case, noting that it was unclear
whether there was “available and admissible data pertaining to a certain
subpopulation in this case.” Moreover, the ethnic subpopulation theory is
inconsistent with (d)(2) in any event in not designating a subpopulation within
a geographic context. Again, Judge Beaudet did not decide the latter issue
– only that (d)(2) did not apply.  
 
          Third, use
of purported ethnicity is not a scientifically appropriate means of analysis of
use of turmeric. It is unclear whether persons who “look” Asian or Middle
Eastern is subject to definition, whether persons who go to shops with Asian
products are representative of Asian or Middle Eastern people generally, or whether
ethnic subpopulations can be defined at all. Furthermore, use of long-standing government
sponsored data, which is already “available,” is more reliable than data CAG
itself generated for purposes of litigation and would not have been “available”
to Defendants beforehand. In addition, CAG has not established why use of
alleged higher use of turmeric by people who look Asian or Middle Eastern
should be the standard based upon which Defendants’ obligations to all persons
in the state be governed, instead of the “average” user the statute indicates.  
 
          Fourth,
use of data based on purported ethnicity raises public policy concerns,
including impermissible stereotyping based upon race, ancestry or national
origin.[3] In
addition, it may be unjustified to use the alleged habits of one or more ethnic
groups, surveyed in Los Angeles County, as a basis for a law of statewide
application for all people.  Further, it
is unclear how Defendants could be expected to know what different ethnic
eating habits might be if at all.   
 
          On May 1,
2024, CAG filed its opposition to Defendants’ motion to strike evidence re:
Plaintiff’s “ethnic subpopulation” theory. CAG makes the following principal
points:
 
          First, the
motion is misdirected as it is not per se an ethnic subpopulation theory.
Instead, CAG seeks to show, consistent with sec. 25721(d)(2), that the exposure
is “reasonably anticipated” to affect a certain subpopulation and that there is
“specific data” relating to that subpopulation.  The theory does not depend on ethnicity. There
is no claim the statute refers specifically to ethnicity or to other defining
characteristics of a subpopulation.  
 
          Second, OEHHA
in its Final Statement of Reasons states at p. 84: “Certain subpopulations need
to be addressed where circumstances involve particular products or
environmental conditions which may pose a possible exposure risk to a distinct
group of people.” CAG argues as a result that OEHHA thereby concurred that sec.
25721(d)(2) was incorporated by reference under sec. 25821(c). It argues
further that the phrase “any geographic area” in sec. 25721(d)(2) confirms that
this is a remedial statute envisioning a case-by-case flexible approach to
enforcement. Similarly, CAG argues the reference to air and water intake
assumptions in (d)(2) is merely to address possible variances within the
general population. As a result, CAG argues the fact that not all
subpopulations are referenced, including ones not based on geographic
limitation, should not be read to mean they are excluded. Indeed, consideration
of subpopulation data is required where there is an identifiable at-risk subpopulation.
(Sec. 25356.1.5(b)(4))
 
          Third,
the court cannot determine whether a heightened exposure risk to a
subpopulation meets the “reasonably anticipated” test, including whether
consideration of alternative data would be “unworkable,” until hearing
cross-examination of Defendants’ experts. 
 
          Fourth,
subpopulation analysis is routine in assessing hazard exposure, not a novel
theory. See secs. 116365 (concerning “subgroups that comprise a meaningful
portion of the general population) and 127370 (evidencing findings of
Legislature based on ethnic subpopulation data). See also Public
Resources Code sec. 71110 adopting a similar sort of analysis. In turn OEHHA conducts
“supplemental race analysis” in aiming to improve disadvantaged communities.
OEHHA also considers “ethnic-specific exposure factors in evaluating exposure
from ingesting contaminated fish,” as indicated in Exs. And B to the supporting
Yeroushalmi Decl. In turn, out of state bodies have used “ethnic” subpopulation
analysis in exposure resulting from spice consumption, as indicated in Exs. C
and D to the Yeroushalmi Decl. Similarly, OEHHA has advocated race and
ethnicity analysis in exposure studies to EPA. California Dept. of Toxic
Substances Control has also advised EPA concerning analysis of those facing
higher contamination levels though cultural (and dietary) practices, as
evidenced by Exs. E & F to the same declaration. In sum, not allowing such
analysis would be contrary to California policy generally. (See People
ex rel. Lungren v. Sup. Court (1996) 14 Cal.4th 294, 314 (Prop 65
is remedial and intended to be protective))
 
          Fifth, this
motion was decided already by Judge Beaudet. 
 
           Sixth,
the motion does not meet the requirement of specifying what evidence precisely Defendants
seek to exclude, basing the motion instead based upon an amorphous idea of a
“theory.” CAG argues it does not know if the motion seeks to exclude testimony
by Dr. Damian and Dr. DeSantis, as well as the Maneses survey. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
 
Separation of Powers 
 
          The
Court grants the parties’ requests for judicial notice.  
 
          As set
forth above, Defendants demonstrate for at least six reasons why the Court
cannot exclude all evidence on this subject on relevance grounds, as is the
limited purpose of a motion in limine. The Court will assess the validity of
these arguments after hearing the evidence and reviewing CAG’s response to these
issues at this level of detail that its brief did not address. 
 
Statute of Limitations 
 
          There is
no dispute that Defendants are not asserting a statute of limitations defense.
The Court agrees with Defendants that the two affirmative defenses they are
asserting are distinct. The Court will not now address the validity of those
defenses. 
 
 
Lead Chromate and other testing issues 
 
 
          The Court
excludes CAG’s trial exhibits 14, 15 and 199. The Court also strikes the
testimony of Marcus and Melikyan that references these exhibits. 
 
          The
Court, however, does not exclude now at least Melikyan’s testimony on the
subjects CAG addresses in its opposition. It appears he may be able to opine on
these areas based upon what CAG asserts; however, the Court does not have the
benefit of Defendants’ input on this subject. The Court has two concerns: 
 
          First,
CAG argues that this subject is relevant to disputing Defendants’ alleged
argument that the lead in these products is naturally occurring. However, as
discussed previously, that is not their argument. They are contending that they
are unable to assert that defense as it is impossible to do so (and one reason
why Prop 65 is unconstitutional.) Therefore, it is not clear if there is any
other reason the Court needs to hear this testimony. 
 
          Second, as
the Court understands CAG’s theory, it is that there was wrongful adulteration
that has caused the lead level to exceed what is permitted to not have a label
required. However, this is seemingly due to its having been joined with
chromium – which is not a listed toxin. CAG does not address that for purposes
of reproductive toxicity Prop 65 does not consider lead compounds. Therefore,
it is not clear why this issue is relevant. Hence, the Court will need to hear
further from the parties as to these concerns.   
 
          The Court
denies the request to CAG that it produce the requested report. The Court did
not give permission to bring a motion to compel. Even assuming Defendants could
serve a notice to produce document at trial, it is not clear that the document
is necessary if Defendants already have this information from another source.
If CAG disputes the result, the Court may revisit this issue.  
Ethnic subpopulation theory 
 
          The Court
grants both sides’ requests for judicial notice. 
 
          The June
16, 2022 ruling does not find explicitly that sec. 25721(d)(2) applies
here. While the court may have at least implicitly found it does not apply in
denying Defendants’ motion, Judge Beaudet does not state the reason exactly the
Court is denying the motion and it is unclear based upon what statute the court
was deciding the motion procedurally (it was not a demurrer or motion for
summary judgment) and now what effect it should have going forward where Judge
Beaudet is not conducting the trial as it was expected she would be at the time
she made the ruling.[4] Further,
even if sec. (d)(2) does apply, Judge Beaudet did not rule that (c)(2) does not
apply or that applying (c)(2) is necessarily inconsistent with any
applicability of (d)(2).[5] Finally,
CAG’s reliance on “law of the case” concerning the June 16, 2022 ruling is
misplaced where that doctrine pertains to the precedential effect of appellate
court opinions, not earlier interim trial court decisions. (See Rutter
Group CAL PRACTICE GUIDE: Civil Appeals and Writs, sec. 14-171) The
continuing effect of an interim order is whether it is permissibly subject to
reconsideration on the court’s own motion or under CCP sec. 1008.  
          In any
event, it remains undisputed that Judge Beaudet did not hold specifically that
CAG could use a subpopulation theory along ethnic lines, instead stating that the
court could not reach that conclusion where it was not clear if there was
sufficient data to do so and moreover that this issue was beyond the issues
then presented to the court. The Court stated only that Defendants had not
presented any authority that CAG could not do so – which given the paucity of
authority - may not necessarily mean that the Court agrees that it can do so. It
appears the issue was essentially left open for trial to determine whether CAG
could provide that data.  
 
          On its
face, (d)(2) refers to subpopulation based on geographic limitation. It does
not provide for subpopulation analysis based on other theories, whether along
ethnic lines or for that matter based on whether they are male or female. The
statute does not indicate that other types of subpopulations were intended. If
so, the Legislature could have said so or not limited it the way it did. While
the Legislature did not have to mention specific examples of other types of
subpopulations for those intended to be the focus of the statute, the court
cannot say based on the statute that it could be inferred that subpopulations
based on ethnicity was what was “reasonably anticipated” to be covered.
Moreover, as discussed above, the Court is not inclined to read other types of
subpopulations into the statute when it is not convinced (d)(2) was intended to
apply to products in the first place. 
 
          CAG also
relies on various recent regulatory actions by California agencies that focus
on race and ethnic subpopulations in studying exposure. The foregoing, however,
does not make this law, enacted in 1986, well before these more recent
developments, say something it does not. It may be that the law should be more
focused on various groups in ensuring safety to those who may suffer more
exposure than others, however, that is a policy decision that is not reflected
in the language the people voted for in passing Prop 65 – which instead looks
to the reasonably anticipated rate of consumption. It is not for a court to change
the law to reflect what may well be sound policy grounds. In addition, the
other provisions of the Health and Safety Code CAG references were not enacted
as part of Prop 65 and it is not clear how those sections apply here if at all.
Moreover, as CAG acknowledges, this is not about ethnicity but about what
manufacturers or distributors should “reasonably expect.” The Court does not
know if Defendants are expected to comply with the high exposure levels when (d)(2)
instead is focused on the reasonably anticipated rate of consumption for the products
in question. Hence, the Court finds, irrespective of whether (d)(2) applies, it
is still the “reasonably anticipated rate of consumption” that is relevant; it
is just which group should be considered for these purposes. 
          
          The Court
does not yet know how the survey evidence CAG seeks to offer by Meneses, or
other evidence, will establish the “reasonably anticipated” rate of consumption
of turmeric. It is not clear if it it would be reasonable for Defendants to
anticipate that if there is high level use by one group of users that therefore
it should place warning labels on its products. The parties have not indicated,
however, how the Court should determine the reasonably anticipated rate of
consumption or how the “available” data does so. Therefore, the Court cannot yet
determine its relevance at this time. Moreover, as discussed in its April 15,
2024 ruling on Defendants Motion in Limine H, the Court has still to decide how
“maximum” or high use is incorporated into “the reasonably anticipated rate of
intake or exposure for average users of the consumer products,” to the extent
(c)(2) applies, and relatedly whether the Court should use a “geometric mean,” as
was at issue in Environ. Law Found. v. Beech-Nut (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th
307, 322.    
 
          In
addition to the foregoing, CAG argues that the Court cannot make this decision
until it hears the cross-examination of Defendants’ experts or other witnesses.
The Court does not know whether CAG will be able to establish the inadequacy of
the evidence Defendants offer. CAG may be able to show, assuming (d)(2) is
relevant, in rebuttal that there is data available that Defendants could
“reasonably anticipate” would show there would be high levels of exposure that
would defeat Defendants’ safe harbor defense. On the other hand, it is not
clear that high use by one group of people is equivalent to what would be
reasonably anticipated. Consistent with the Court’s ruling on Defendants’
Motion in Limine E, the court’s wish to keep the trial as focused as possible
by hearing only relevant evidence does not thereby preclude CAG’s right to put
on its case. Hence, even if Meneses’ survey is not relevant as the exclusive
means to analyze levels of exposure, CAG may be able to use it in a more
limited way to address the relevant inquiry. 
 
          The
foregoing is without prejudice to Defendants’ right to then argue further that
this rebuttal evidence is neither “scientifically appropriate” nor “available” where
it was apparently prepared for litigation, nor in turn data they could “reasonably
anticipate” where it was not based on a geographic subpopulation– which issues
the court cannot decide now merely on relevance grounds. Hence, the continuing
relevance of testimony of DeSantis and Damian will be in this context. 
 
           Defendants’ fourth point based on the public
policy concerns recited above cannot be wholly excluded from the analysis of
what is “reasonably anticipated” -- that the court cannot now decide without
hearing the evidence. 
 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 
          For these
reasons, the Court makes the following rulings:
 
-         
CAG’s Motion in Limine No. 9 re: Separation of
Powers: Denied. 
 
-         
CAG’s Motion to exclude evidence re: statute of
limitations: Granted. 
 
-         
Defendants’ Motion to Strike testimony re: lead
chromate and new test results and to produce withheld test results:  Granted in part and denied in part. 
 
-         
Defendants’ Motion to strike evidence re: CAG’s
“ethnic subpopulation theory”: Denied. 
 
 
DATED:                                                                                    
_________________________________
                                                                                                      
DAVID J. COWAN
                                                                                                      
Judge of the Superior Court 
 


