  Case Number:  22STCV28318    Hearing Date:   July 29, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department
40


 




UNITED WATERWORKS, INC., 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
GOLDEN STATE WATER COMPANY, et al.,
                        Defendants. 
 
AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION


  Case No.:         22STCV28318
  Hearing Date:  07/29/24
  Trial Date:       09/06/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Motion for Summary
  Adjudication  



 
Plaintiff United
Waterworks, Inc. filed a Motion for Summary Adjudication and seeks summary
adjudication in its favor and against Defendants Precision Pipeline,
Incorporated and Dan K. Eberhart aka Daniel K. Eberhart as to the first cause
of action for breach of written contract. The motion is unopposed. 
After review, the Court
GRANTS Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Adjudication. 
 
Background
On August 30, 2022,
Plaintiff United Waterworks, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against
Defendants Golden State Water Company, Precision Pipeline, Incorporated,
American Contractors Indemnity Company, North River Insurance Company, Hudson
Insurance Company, and Does 1-20 (collectively, “Defendants”) alleging causes
of action for: (1) Breach of Written Contract; (2) Goods Had and Delivered; (3)
Account Stated; (4) Goods Had and Delivered; (5) Account Stated; (6)
Enforcement of Claim on Stop Payment Notice; (7) Enforcement of Claim Against
Contractor’s License Bond; and (8) Constructive Fraud. 
This action arises from
the alleged breach of a written credit agreement (the “Credit Agreement”)
between Plaintiff and Defendant Precision Pipeline, Incorporated (“PPI”).
(Complaint, ¶ 12.) Plaintiff alleges that in January 2022, Defendant PPI
entered into the Credit Agreement with Plaintiff whereby Defendant PPI
purchased various materials from Plaintiff. (Complaint, ¶ 12; Ex. A.) According
to the Complaint, “Section 2 of the Credit Agreement required [Defendant PPI]
and DOES 1-5 to pay [Plaintiff] within 30 days of its receipt of each invoice
from [Plaintiff].” (Complaint, ¶ 13.) Section 4 of the Credit Agreement
obligated Defendant PPI and Does 1-5 to cause the portions of all payments that
Defendant PPI received that included payment for materials furnished by
Plaintiff pursuant to the Credit Agreement to be held in trust for payment o
Plaintiff. (Complaint, ¶ 14.) Section 4 of the Credit Agreement also required
Defendants PPI and Does 1-5 to act as a fiduciary for payment to Plaintiff.
(Complaint, ¶ 14.) 
Plaintiff further
alleges that Defendant PPI purchased materials from Plaintiff which were
subsequently used and incorporated into two separate construction projects on
which Defendant Golden State Water Company (“Golden State”) retained Defendant
PPI to perform the work. (Complaint, ¶ 15.) Plaintiff timely and properly
supplied the materials requested by Defendant PPI and, per the terms of the
Credit Agreement, Plaintiff issued written invoices to Defendant PPI which
required payment within 30 days. (Complaint, ¶ 16.) Plaintiff has complied with
and satisfied all conditions, terms, and obligations of the Credit Agreement.
(Complaint, ¶ 17.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendants PPI and Does 1-5 have
repeatedly breached the Credit Agreement by failing to pay Plaintiff for the
materials it ordered, and Plaintiff supplied to the projects. (Complaint, ¶
18.) Plaintiff alleges that it has been damaged by the breaches of Defendants
PPI and Does 1-5. (Complaint, ¶¶ 22-24.) 
 
Relevant Procedural History
On October 5, 2022,
Defendant Golden State filed a Cross-Complaint against Cross-Defendants PPI,
Dan K. Eberhart, and Does 1 to 25, alleging causes of action for: (1) Breach of
Contract; (2) Implied Contractual Indemnity; and (3) Equitable Indemnity.  
On January 17, 2023,
Defendant PPI filed respective Answers to the Complaint and Cross-Complaint. 
On February 10, 2023,
Plaintiff filed an Amendment to Complaint which identified Dan K. Eberhart aka
Daniel K. Eberhart (“Eberhart”) as Doe Defendant No. 5. 
On February 3, 2023,
Plaintiff served on Defendant PPI Form Interrogatories, Set One, and Requests
for Admission, Set One. 
On July 25, 2023, after
hearing oral argument and taking the matter under submission, the Court granted
Plaintiff’s unopposed motion to deem Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission, Set
One, as admitted, and the Court granted the motion to compel Defendant PPI to
respond to the First Set of Form Interrogatories. (07/25/23 Minute Order.) The
Court stated that “[t]he genuineness of any documents and the truth of any
matters specified in Requests for Admission, Set One, is deemed [admitted].” (07/25/23
Minute Order at p.5.) Defendant PPI had served no responses to Set One of
Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission. (07/25/23 Minute Order.) 
On July 28, 2023,
Plaintiff filed and served a Notice of Ruling as to the Court’s July 25, 2023
order. 
On August 31, 2023,
Defendant Eberhart filed an Answer to the Cross-Complaint.  
On May 8, 2024,
Plaintiff filed and served the instant Motion for Summary Adjudication (the
“Motion”). Plaintiff seeks summary adjudication in its favor and against
Defendants PPI and Eberhart as to the first cause of action for breach of
written contract on the grounds that the “undisputed evidence establishes each
of the elements of the [f]irst [c]ause of [a]ction, [and] there is no triable
issue as to any material fact remaining as to that claim.” (Not. of Mot. at p.
1:9-10.) Plaintiff also brings the Motion on the grounds that there is no
defense to the first cause of action for breach of written contract. (Not. of
Mot. at p. 1:7-9.) 
On July 16, 2024, the
Court granted the Motion to be Relieved as Counsel filed by David Nitka as to
Defendant Eberhart. (07/16/24 Minute Order.) 
The Motion was served
on Defendants PPI and Eberhart on May 8, 2024. The Motion is unopposed. Any
opposition to the Motion was required to have been filed and served at least
nine court days prior to the hearing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).) 
 
Judicial
Notice 
“Under Evidence Code section 452, a court may take judicial notice of
[f]acts and propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are
capable of immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of
reasonably indisputable accuracy.” (Chacon v. Union Pacific Railroad (2020)
56 Cal.App.5th 565, 572 [citations omitted].) “A court may take judicial notice
of the [e]xistence of each document in a court file, but can only take judicial
notice of the truth of facts asserted in documents such as orders, findings of
fact and conclusions of law, and judgments.” (People v. Franklin (2016)
63 Cal.4th 261, 280 [citation omitted, internal quotations omitted].) “Courts can
take judicial notice of the existence, content and authenticity of public
records and other specified documents, but do not take judicial notice of the
truth of the factual matters asserted in those documents.” (Glaski v. Bank
of America (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1079, 1090 [citations omitted].) 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s Request for Judicial Notice as to Exhibits
1-10 in Plaintiff’s Request for Judicial Notice. 
 
Motion for Summary
Adjudication: GRANTED.
            Legal Standard:

The function of a motion for
summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an
opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to
enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) CCP Section 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant
summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence,
show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving
party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  “The function of the pleadings in a motion
for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.”  (Juge
v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67.)
A plaintiff may “move for summary
adjudication of a cause of action, if the plaintiff asserts there is no defense
to that cause of action.” (Paramount Petroleum Corp. v. Superior Court (2014)
227 Cal.App.4th 226, 241.) “A party may move for summary adjudication as to one
or more causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative defenses,
one or more claims for damages . . . if the party contends that . . . there is
no affirmative defense to the cause of action, [or] that there is no merit to
an affirmative defense as to any cause of action . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (f)(1).) 
A plaintiff moving for summary
adjudication has met its burden if it shows “that there is no defense to a
cause of action” by showing “each element of the cause of action entitling the
party to judgment on the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(1).) “Once the plaintiff . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to
the defendant . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (p)(1).) “The defendant . . . shall not rely upon the allegations
or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact
exists but, instead, shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable
issue of material fact exists s to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) 
 
Analysis: 
I. 
First Cause of Action—Breach of Written Contract 
 
Plaintiff contends that the Motion
should be granted because on July 25, 2023, the Court deemed admitted all of
Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission, Set One, and such order conclusively
established that Defendants PPI and Eberhart do not have any affirmative
defense to any of Plaintiff’s causes of action. Plaintiff asserts that all
elements of Plaintiff’s causes of action have been established. (Plaintiff’s Request
for Judicial Notice, Exs. 6-7.)  
In order to state a cause of action
for breach of contract, a plaintiff must show: (1) the existence of a contract;
(2) plaintiff’s performance of the contract or an excuse for nonperformance;
(3) breach by the defendant; and (4) damages to plaintiff. (Otworth v.
Southern Pac. Transportation Co. (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452, 458.) “[A]
contracting party’s unjustified failure or refusal to perform is a breach of
contract . . . .” (Cates Construction, Inc. v. Talbot Partners (1999) 21
Cal.4th 28, 54.) “Matters that are admitted or deemed admitted through RFA discovery
devices are conclusively established in the litigation and are not subject to
being contested through contradictory evidence.” (St. Mary v. Superior Court
(2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 762, 775.) 
Plaintiff presents the following
undisputed material facts: Defendants PPI and Eberhart entered into the Credit
Agreement with Plaintiff. (Thomas Decl., ¶ 4; Ex. A.) Defendant Eberhart
executed the Credit Agreement as a 100 percent owner of Defendant PPI and
thereby bound Defendant PPI to pay each of Plaintiff’s invoices within 30 days
of the invoice date. (Thomas Decl., ¶ 4; Ex. A at p. 3.) Defendant Eberhart bound
himself personally to act as a fiduciary for payment to Plaintiff in exchange
for Defendant PPI’s ability to purchase materials on credit. (Thomas Decl., ¶
4; Ex. A at p. 3.) Defendant PPI placed numerous orders with Plaintiff for
materials for use on the projects, on credit, for about one hundred thousand
dollars’ worth of materials. (Hagman Decl., ¶¶ 6, 9.) Plaintiff delivered all
materials per the instructions of Defendant PPI and no materials were rejected
by Defendant PPI. (Hagman Decl., ¶¶ 7-8.) The materials were used on the
projects. (Hagman Decl., ¶ 7.) On the same date that Plaintiff delivered any
materials to Defendant PPI, Plaintiff prepared an invoice for payment in full
within 30 days of the invoice date, and Plaintiff thereafter e-mailed the
invoice to Defendant PPI. (Thomas Decl., ¶¶ 7-9; Hagman Decl., ¶ 9.) 
Plaintiff also presents the
undisputed fact that Defendants PPI and Eberhart failed to pay any of
Plaintiff’s invoices, which is a breach of the Credit Agreement. (Thomas Decl.,
¶¶ 8-10; Deschenes Decl., ¶¶ 10-13.) Plaintiff presents evidence that it has
been damaged by the breach of Defendants PPI and Eberhart. (Deschenes Decl..,
¶¶ 10-15, Ex. O; Thomas Decl., ¶ 17, Ex. F; Plaintiff’s Separate Statement at
UMF Nos. 22-37.) Additionally, Plaintiff presents the undisputed fact that the
truth of the matters in Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission have been
conclusively established. (Johnson Decl., ¶ 9; Ex. 7.) Plaintiff presents the
undisputed fact that it has been established that Defendant PPI and all persons
acting for, or on behalf of, or at the direction or request of Defendant
PPI—including Defendant Eberhart—do not have any facts, witnesses, writings, or
documents to support any affirmative defense to any of Plaintiff’s causes of
action in the complaint. (Plaintiff’s UMF No. 40.) The Court’s July 25, 2023 order
also conclusively established that no witness has knowledge of any facts
supporting any additional affirmative defense to any cause of action in the complaint.
(Plaintiff’s UMF No. 41.) 
Plaintiff has met its burden by
showing the existence of each element to prove a cause of action for breach of written
contract. Moreover, Plaintiff has presented the undisputed material facts that
neither Defendants PPI nor Eberhart has any affirmative defense to the first
cause of action for breach of written contract. Given that the Motion is
unopposed, Defendants PPI and Eberhart have not shown the existence of a
triable issue of material fact. Accordingly, summary adjudication is
appropriate as to the first cause of action in the complaint for breach of
written contract. 
            Also, the Motion is unopposed which
leads to the inference that it is meritorious under Sexton v. Superior Court
(1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410. Due to the lack of opposition, the Court
finds that Defendants PPI and Eberhart have conceded to all the arguments
raised in the Motion because “[c]ontentions are waived when a party fails to
support them with reasoned argument and citations to authority.” (Moulton
Niguel Water Dist. v. Colombo (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215.)  
 
Conclusion
Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary
Adjudication against Defendants Precision Pipeline, Incorporated and Dan K.
Eberhart aka Daniel K. Eberhart as to the first cause of action for Breach of Written
Contract is GRANTED. 