  Case Number:  21STCV30997    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   April
10, 2024                                                 
 
CASE NAME:           Chris Cowart v. LAC Metro
 
CASE NO.:                21STCV30997

 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant LAC Metro
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Chris Cowart
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: Summary Judgment as to Plaintiff’s Third
Amended Complaint: One Cause of Action for Wrongful Termination in Retaliation. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING: GRANT
 
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
            Plaintiff
Chris Cowart (“Plaintiff”) commenced this action on August 23, 2021. He filed a
First Amended Complaint on January 20, 2022, a Second Amended Complaint on June
2, 2022, and a Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) on October 11, 2023. The TAC has
one cause of action for Wrongful Termination in Retaliation. Defendant LAC Metro
(“Defendant”) filed an Answer to the TAC on December 12, 2023. 
 
Plaintiff alleges he was employed by Defendant from
February 25, 2008 to July 7, 2020. Plaintiff suffered from occupational
rhinitis and asthma, which caused Plaintiff’s doctor to place a work
restriction on Plaintiff. Plaintiff cannot work in buses that have been
recently treated with pesticide or insecticide. Plaintiff alleges that he was
“removed from service” because Defendant could not accommodate his work
restriction. (TAC, 2:13.) To return to work, Plaintiff asked his doctor to
inform Defendant that Plaintiff does not have a work restriction anymore. After
six months of unpaid leave, Plaintiff returned to work. 
 
On October 20, 2014, Plaintiff filed an action in federal
district court under the Americans with Disabilities Act. The jury in that case
returned a special verdict for Plaintiff for $15,000 plus back pay for the six
months of unpaid leave. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant nonetheless failed to
pay him outstanding vacation pay. To recover the vacation pay, Plaintiff caused
his union to file a grievance on his behalf. The union settled the grievance
after Defendant paid Plaintiff twenty hours of vacation pay. 
 
            Plaintiff
alleges that, even after the 2014 trial had ended in a verdict that Defendant
failed to prevent harassment and provide reasonable accommodation, Defendant
continued to assign him to buses that were still wet with pesticide or
insecticide.
            
            In August
2018, Plaintiff had a “second trial, in the U.S. District court, mistrial.”
(TAC, 6:2-3.) The judge facilitated a settlement hearing. Defendant paid
Plaintiff $26,000. 
 
            Plaintiff
transferred to a different division on an unspecified date. Plaintiff believed
that one of his supervisors, Thompson, “was trying to provoke a [sic] argument
with” him. (TAC, 6:8-9.) Plaintiff reported this to his division director,
Jones. The next day, Plaintiff was ordered to go to work, on his day off, for
an 8-hour assignment. However, after less than two hours, Plaintiff was told
that he must go on a three-hour unpaid split. Plaintiff considered this
harassment and filed a complaint with the EEOC.


            Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant wrongfully terminated him in retaliation.[1]
 
Defendant filed this Motion for Summary Judgment on January
24, 2024, for hearing on April 10, 2024. Defendant timely filed and served the
motion on Plaintiff pursuant to CCP § 437c(a)(2). Plaintiff
filed an opposition on March 19, 2024 and served it on Defendant via U.S. Mail
on the same day. Defendant filed a reply to Plaintiff’s supplemental opposition
on April 2, 2024. 
 
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
             Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (a) provides that a “party may move for summary judgment in any
action or proceeding if it is contended that the action has no merit or that
there is no defense to the action or proceeding.” The motion shall be granted
if there is no triable issue as to any material fact and the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,¿subd.
(c).)¿Subdivision (p)(2) of the same section provides that where a defendant
presents evidence showing one or more elements of a cause of action cannot be
established, then the burden shifts to plaintiff to show the existence of a
triable issue of material fact. (See¿Blue
Shield of California Life & Health Insurance Co. v. Superior Court (2011)
192 Cal.App.4th 727, 732.)¿ 
 
            A party is
also permitted to move for summary adjudication of a particular issue, which
can be granted “only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an
affirmative¿defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c,¿subd. (f)(1).)¿ 
 
            The moving
party’s burden on summary judgment “is more properly one of persuasion rather than¿proof, since he must¿persuade¿the court that there is no
material fact for a reasonable trier of fact to find, and not to¿prove¿any such fact to the satisfaction
of the court itself as though it were sitting as the trier of fact.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.¿(2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 850 fn.11, original italics.)¿
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
            Because Defendant
is a public entity, it cannot be sued for common law wrongful
termination. (Miklosy
v. Regents of University of California (2008) 44 Cal.4th 876, 900 (“we
agree with the Palmer court that
section 815 bars Tameny actions
against public entities”).) Therefore, Plaintiff’s claim would have to be based
on a violation of the Fair Employment and Housing Act (FEHA), which he does not
expressly rely on in the TAC but referred to in his responses to form
interrogatories. (See Defendant’s
Evidence in Support of MSJ, Exhs. 21-22.) 
 
The scope of a FEHA lawsuit is
limited to causes of action “like and reasonably related to” the allegations of
the administrative complaint filed with the Department of Fair Employment and
Housing (DFEH). (Wills v. Superior Court
(2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 143, 154-155.) Here, Plaintiff’s DFEH complaint alleges
that he was terminated in retaliation for filing a DFEH discrimination
complaint (201910-07985421) on October 21, 2019. (See Defendant’s Evidence in Support of MSJ, Exh. 2.) Hence, the
dispositive question is whether there is evidence that “would allow a reasonable
trier of fact to find” that retaliation for filing the October 2019 DFEH complaint
was a motivating factor in the termination of Plaintiff’s employment. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) 
 
To state a claim for retaliation
under FEHA a plaintiff must show that (1) the plaintiff engaged in a
FEHA-protected activity, (2) the plaintiff was subject to an adverse employment
action, and (3) there is a causal link between the protected activity and the
adverse employment action. (Yanowitz v.
L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1042.) On summary judgment, a
claim for retaliation under FEHA evaluated under the framework established by
the United States Supreme Court in McDonnell
Douglas Corp. v. Green (1973) 411 U.S. 792. First, the plaintiff has the
initial burden of establishing a prima facie case to raise an inference of
retaliation. Then, the burden the shifts to the employer seeking summary judgment
or summary adjudication to demonstrate a legitimate and non-retaliatory reason
for the employment action. Finally, the burden shifts back to the plaintiff to present
evidence that raises an inference that retaliation occurred, and the proffered
non-retaliatory reason is mere pretext. (Batarse
v. Service Employees Intern. Union Local 1000 (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 820,
831-32.)
 
“A defendant moving for summary
judgment however, may skip to the second step of the analysis and demonstrate
that it had a legitimate business reason . . . for taking its employment
action.” (Id., at 831.) “The
plaintiff then has the burden to rebut this facially dispositive showing by
pointing to evidence which nonetheless raises a rational inference that
intentional . . . retaliation occurred.” (Id.
at 831-32 [citation omitted].)
 
a.         Legitimate and Non-Retaliatory Reason for Adverse
Employment Action 
 
As a preliminary matter, Defendant argues that Plaintiff is
barred from making any claims based on conduct that occurred before September
24, 2018. Plaintiff filed two federal lawsuits, in 2016 and in 2018. The first
one resulted in a final judgment affirmed by the Ninth Circuit, which has
preclusive effect. The second lawsuit resulted in a mistrial and was settled on
September 24, 2018, pursuant to an agreement by which Plaintiff released “any
and all past, present, or future claims . . . connected to” the allegations in
that lawsuit. (See Defendant’s
Evidence in Support of MSJ, Exh. 15.) Plaintiff does
not dispute this. 
 
Here, Defendant states it had legitimate and non-discriminatory reason for terminating Plaintiff because Plaintiff
was involved in an accident with a pedestrian on May 27, 2020, while driving an
LAC Metro bus. (UMF 4; undisputed.) The incident was captured on video by one
of the bus’s onboard cameras. (UMF 5; undisputed.) The video shows Plaintiff
stopped the bus when he first saw a pedestrian walk up to the front of the bus,
but then released the brakes while the pedestrian was still in front of the
bus. (UMF 6; undisputed.) 
 
On June 18, 2020, a First-Level
Accident Review Board hearing was convened to review the evidence related to
the incident, at which Plaintiff was allowed to present his case. (UMF 7;
undisputed.) After reviewing the video footage and Plaintiff’s presentation,
all three members of the Accident Review Board determined that the accident was
avoidable. (UMF
8; undisputed.) Based on the determination of the Accident Review Board, LAC Metro
issued Plaintiff a Notice of Disciplinary Action, which stated that he was
being charged with an avoidable accident which was considered to be egregious. (UMF 9; undisputed.) 
 
On June 25, 2020, Plaintiff’s
union representative appeared at a formal hearing on Plaintiff’s behalf, to
consider charges in connection with the accident. (UMF 10-11; undisputed.)
On July 7, 2020, Defendant
discharged Plaintiff from employment based on a determination by Barbara Harris
following the formal hearing that his actions in connection with the incident
were “unbecoming, unsafe and a substantial breach of Metro’s and the public
trust.” (UMF 12; undisputed.) Harris was not aware that Plaintiff had filed
complaints against Defendant. (UMF 13; undisputed.)
 
On November 13, 2020, Plaintiff,
represented by his union, testified at a SMART Second Level Hearing. Based on
the testimony and evidence presented, the hearing officer determined that the
incident was avoidable, and Plaintiff’s discharge was appropriate. (UMF 14-15;
undisputed.) The hearing officer was not aware that Plaintiff had filed
complaints against Defendant. (UMF 16; undisputed.)
 
Defendant met its burden of
providing legitimate, non-retaliatory reasons for the adverse employment action
against Plaintiff. The burden now shifts to Plaintiff to provide evidence
supporting an inference of retaliation.
 
b.         Evidence Supporting Inference of Retaliation 
 
An employee can establish pretext “either directly by
persuading the court that a discriminatory reason more likely motivated the
employer or indirectly by showing that the employer’s proffered explanation is
unworthy of credence.” (Morgan v.
Regents of University of Cal. (2000) 88 Cal.App.4th 52, 68.) Circumstantial
evidence must be “specific” and “substantial” to create a triable issue with
respect to whether an employer intended to retaliate, while direct evidence of
pretext does not need to be “substantial” to create a triable issue as to the
actual motivation of the employer. (Id.
at 69.) Mere temporal proximity does not alone create triable issues as to
pretext when an employer offers evidence of a non-retaliatory reason for
termination. (Arteaga v. Brink’s, Inc.
(2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 327, 357.)
 
In his opposition, Plaintiff only disputes one of
Defendant’s UMFs, UMF 20. (Opp’n, 6:12-14.)[2] UMF 20 provides that Defendant did not receive a copy of
Plaintiff’s DFEH Complaint filed September 29, 2020. (UMF 20; disputed.)
However, Plaintiff does not explain why or how this statement is incorrect or
even relevant to his argument, nor does Plaintiff provide any evidence to show that this statement is
false. 
 
Instead, Plaintiff’s opposition argues that “the court
mistakenly applied the wrong law by having Plaintiff file a Third Amended
Complaint to add the first cause of action” because “Plaintiff did not abandon
the first cause of action” and “Defendant’s demurrer was only to the second cause
of action.” (Opp’n, 2:12-17.)
 
In any case, Plaintiff failed to provide any evidence that his discharge was more
likely to be motivated by discriminatory than legitimate reasons. Thus, there is no dispute of material fact as to whether
Plaintiff was subject to retaliation. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is
GRANTED.   
 
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
Defendant’s motion for summary
judgment is granted.
 
Moving party is to give notice and prepare and file a
proposed judgment within 10 days.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              April 10, 2024                         __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


