 Case Number:  24STCV15768    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


December 12, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24STCV15768




MOTION


Demurrer to First Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendants Warren Lotas, LLC, Warren Lotas, and Kalin Stoyanchev
  




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Michael Hope




 
MOTION
Plaintiff Michael
Hope (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendants Warren Lotas, LLC (“Company”), Warren Lotas
(“Lotas”), and Kalin Stoyanchev (“Stoyanchev,” collectively, “Defendants”),
alleging Lotas and Stoyanchev started the Company, and Plaintiff agreed to work
for it in exchange for a five percent ownership interest.  (First Amended Complaint, ¶¶ 7-14.)  Plaintiff further alleges Lotas and
Stoyanchev re-formed the Company as a two-member limited liability company to
exclude Plaintiff.  (Id., ¶
30.)  Defendants demur to Plaintiff’s first
amended complaint.  Plaintiff opposes the
demurrer. 
ANALYSIS
“It is black
letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a
complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385,
388.)  In ruling on a demurrer, the court must “liberally construe[]” the
allegations of the complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.)  “This rule of liberal construction means that
the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)
First Cause of Action: Breach of
Fiduciary Duties Against Lotas and Stoyanchev
Plaintiff alleges
“Lotas and Stoyanchev breached their fiduciary duties to Hope by attempting to
wrongfully exclude him as a member of the Company in connection with its merger
from a Massachusetts entity to a California entity; refusing to provide records
to which Hope was entitled; failing to issue timely distributions or inform
Hope of any reason for the Company’s inability to make distributions; and
hiding corporate activity from Hope, including the Company’s decision to create
and act as sole member of a new entity, Warren Lotas Retail, LLC; and likely
other conduct now unknown but to be discovered.”  (First Amended Complaint, ¶ 61.)  Pursuant to Corporations Code section
17704.09, a member’s duty of loyalty to a limited liability company and to the
other members is limited to: a duty to account to the company and hold as
trustee for the company any property, profit, or benefit the member derives in
the conduct of the company’s activity or use of the company’s property; a duty
to refrain from dealing with the company in the conduct of the company’s
business as or on behalf of a person with an interest adverse to the company;
and a duty to refrain from competing with the company in the conduct of the
company’s business.  (Corp. Code, §
17704.09, subd. (b).)  A member’s duty of
care to a limited liability company and the other members of the company is
limited to a duty to refrain from engaging in grossly negligent or reckless
conduct, intentional misconduct, or a knowing violation of law.  (Corp. Code, § 17704.09, subd. (c).)  Plaintiff’s allegations are that Lotas and
Stoyanchev engaged in intentional misconduct to deprive Plaintiff of his
ownership interest in the Company.  As
such, Plaintiff’s allegations suffice for pleading purposes.
Defendants argue Plaintiff
lacks standing because Plaintiff is not a member of the new company Lotas and
Stoyanchev formed, Warren Lotas Retail, LLC. 
That is irrelevant.  Plaintiff’s
claims are against Lotas and Stoyanchev. 
Plaintiff’s claims, therefore, suffice.
Defendants also
argue the business judgment rule bars Plaintiff’s claims.  The business judgment rule does not shield
actions taken with improper motives or because of a conflict of interest. 
(Berg & Berg Enterprises, LLC v. Boyle (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 1020,
1045.)  Plaintiff alleges Lotas and Stoyanchev acted with the improper
motive to deprive Plaintiff of his interest in the Company.  As such, Plaintiff alleges the business
judgment rule does not apply.
Second Cause of Action: Fraud Against
Lotas and Stoyanchev
Plaintiff must
allege fraud with particularity.  “This
means: (1) general pleading of the legal conclusion of fraud is insufficient;
and (2) every element of the cause of action for fraud must be alleged in full,
factually and specifically, and the policy of liberal construction of pleading
will not usually be invoked to sustain a pleading that is defective in any
material respect.”  (Wilhelm v. Pray, Price, Williams & Russell (1986) 186
Cal.App.3d 1324, 1331.)  To state a claim
for promissory fraud, Plaintiff must allege specific factual circumstances
beyond contract breach, which reflect Defendant’s contemporaneous intent not to
perform.  (Hills Transportation Co. v.
Southwest Forest Ind., Inc. (1968) 266 Cal.App.2d 702, 707.)  In the instant case, Plaintiff alleges Lotas
and Stoyanchev falsely promised Plaintiff an ownership interest in the
Company.  (First Amended Complaint, ¶ 64.)  Plaintiff does not allege specific facts to
show Lotas and Stoyanchev did not intend to honor that promise at the time
Lotas and Stoyanchev made those promises to Plaintiff.  Therefore, the demurrer as to this claim is
sustained, but Plaintiff is given an opportunity to amend.[1]
Third Cause of Action: Fraudulent
Concealment Against Lotas and Stoyanchev 

To state a case of action for fraudulent
concealment, Plaintiff must allege Lotas and Stoyanchev concealed or suppressed material facts Lotas
and Stoyanchev were under a duty to
disclose to Plaintiff with the intent to defraud Plaintiff; Plaintiff was
unaware of the facts and would not have acted in the same way if Plaintiff knew
of the concealed facts; and the concealment caused damages to Plaintiff.  (Blickman Turkus, LP v. MF Downtown
Sunnyvale, LLC (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 858, 868.)  In support of the third cause of action,
Plaintiff alleges, “Lotas and Stoyanchev failed to disclose and/or concealed
intentionally from Hope their wrongful change of the Company’s structure from a
three-member to a two-member limited liability company when merging the Company
from a Massachusetts entity to a California entity . . . .”  (First Amended Complaint, ¶ 73.)  By simply averring “[h]ad this information
not been concealed from Hope, he would have undertaken a different course of
action at the time” (id., ¶ 79),  Plaintiff
has not alleged specific facts concerning how Plaintiff would have acted
differently had Plaintiff known of the change in the Company’s structure.  Thus, the demurrer is sustained as to the
third cause of action with leave to amend.
Fourth Cause of Action: Negligent
Misrepresentation Against Lotas and Stoyanchev 

Plaintiff alleges Lotas
and Stoyanchev represented to Plaintiff he “maintained a 5% interest in the
Company for which he would be paid distributions.”  (First Amended Complaint, ¶ 82.)  There is no cause of action for a negligent
false promise.  (See Tarmann v. State
Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 159
[court “decline[d] to establish a new type of actionable deceit: the negligent
false promise”].)  Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s claim for negligent misrepresentation fails as a matter of law.
Fifth Cause of Action: Conversion
Against Lotas and Stoyanchev  
Plaintiff alleges Lotas
and Stoyanchev converted his ownership interest in the Company.  Plaintiff’s intangible interest in the
Company is a proper subject for a cause of action for conversion.  (See e.g., Fremont Indem. Co. v. Fremont
General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 125-126 [“For purposes of ruling on
the demurrer, it is sufficient to conclude as we do that the misappropriation
of intangible net operating losses alleged here supports a cause of action for
conversion”].)  Plaintiff’s claim
suffices for pleading purposes. 
Sixth Cause of Action: Breach of
Contract Against the Company 
 Plaintiff alleges he agreed to provide
services in exchange for an ownership interest in the Company, and he was
thereafter deprived of that interest.  (First
Amended Complaint, ¶¶ 97-100.)  For
pleading purposes, these allegations suffice. 
Plaintiff is entitled to plead breach of contract in general terms.   (Ochs v. PacifiCare of Cal. (2004)
115 Cal.App.4th 782, 795.)  
For the same
reason, Plaintiff’s seventh cause of action for declaratory relief suffices.  “[D]emurrer is usually not an appropriate
method for testing the merits of a declaratory relief action, because the
plaintiff is entitled to a declaration of rights even if it is adverse to the
plaintiff's interest.”  (Qualified
Patients Ass'n v. City of Anaheim (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 734, 751, internal
quotations and citations omitted.)  
Plaintiff is entitled to assert a claim for declaratory relief regarding
his ownership interest in the Company.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1060.)
Eighth Cause of Action:  Wrongful Termination Against the Company
            Plaintiff
claims he was terminated after requesting records for the Company as permitted
by Corporations Code section 17704.10; this amounted to retaliation; and the
Company violated public policy.  (First Amended
Complaint, ¶¶ 107-109.)  But Plaintiff
does not allege what public policy the Company violated to substantiate his
claim he was wrongfully terminated.  Moreover, Plaintiff does not point to any
specific statutory provision or other authority which prohibited his
termination for requesting the Company’s records.  (See Stevenson v. Superior Court
(1997) 16 Cal.4th 880, 901-902 [for a policy to support a wrongful discharge
claim, it must be delineated in either constitutional or statutory provisions,
be public in the sense it inures to the benefit of the public rather than
serving the interest of an individual, be well established at the time of the
discharge, and be substantial and fundamental].)  Plaintiff has not sufficiently pled a
wrongful discharge claim.  Therefore, the
demurrer is sustained regarding this cause of action with leave to amend.
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendants’
demurrer is sustained with leave to amend as to the second, third, and eighth
causes of action; sustained without leave to amend as to the fourth cause of
action; and is otherwise overruled as to the first, fifth, sixth, and seventh
causes of action.  
Plaintiff is to
file an amended complaint within 20 days of notice of this order.
Defendants are
ordered to provide notice of this order and to file proof of service of same. 
 


