  Case Number:  21STCV10542    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  T Defendant’s
Motion for Summary Judgment
 
Moving
Party: Defendant Postmates, LLC
f/k/a Postmates, Inc. (“Defendant”)
Responding Party:     Plaintiff Rafael Quijano (“Plaintiff”)
Tentative
Rulings: Defendant’s
motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.  Defendant’s
application to            seal is GRANTED.
 Background
 This
is an action for negligence arising from a vehicle collision which took place
in March 2019. Plaintiff filed his form Complaint against Defendant and Mario
Hernandez on March 18, 2021. Plaintiff
filed his operative form FAC on March 19, 2021. The FAC’s sole cause of
action for general negligence alleges:
Defendants MARIO HERNANDEZ, POSTMATES, INC.,
POSTMATES, LLC, and DOES 1 to 50, inclusive and each of them . . .  were the agents and employees of the other
defendants and acted within the course and scope; Defendants owed a duty and
breached that duty by, among other things, failing to adequately and properly
control, delegate, hire, entrust, train, protect, and supervise.
 Defendant
filed its answer on October 7, 2021.
 Defendant
now moves for summary judgment on the grounds that (1) no act or omission on
Defendant’s part contributed to any harm suffered by Plaintiff who was struck
by a negligent third party driver; and (2) Defendant owed no duty to Plaintiff
who admittedly and intentionally misrepresented his identity by using the
credentials of Mario Hernandez (“Hernandez”) to create an account on
Defendant’s platform.
 On
May 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed his opposition.
 On
May 23, 2024, Defendant filed its reply and an application to seal documents
submitted by Plaintiff.
 Application
to Seal
 The Court may order that a record be filed
under seal only if it finds that (1) there is an overriding interest that
overcomes the right of public access to the record, (2) the overriding interest
supports sealing the record, (3) a substantial probability exists that the
overriding interest will be prejudiced absent sealing, (4) the proposed sealing
is narrowly tailored, and (5) no less restrictive means exists to achieve the
overriding interest.  (California Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d).)  A
motion seeking an order sealing records must be accompanied by a declaration
containing facts sufficient to justify the sealing.  (California Rules of
Court, rule 2.551(b)(1).) 
 Discussion
 Plaintiff
lodged four documents with its opposition to Defendant’s motion for summary
judgment that were previously designated as "Confidential" and
subject to the protective order entered by this Court on December 13, 2022.
Specifically, Plaintiff lodged Defendant’s Insurance Policies and attached the
following three exhibits to the Deposition of Clyde Collins: (1) Exhibit 10,
Checkr Report; (2) Exhibit 13, Account History; and (3) Exhibit 14, Account
History.
 Defendant
seeks to seal all four documents and submits the Declaration of L. Kuck in
support. The Court finds that said declaration provides sufficient facts to
justify the sealing. (Declaration of Danielle L. Kuck ¶ 2-3.) The application
is therefore GRANTED.
 Motion for Summary Judgment
 A
party seeking summary judgment has the burden of producing evidentiary facts
sufficient to entitle them to judgment as a matter of law. (Code Civ. Proc. §
437c(c).) The moving party must make an affirmative showing that they are entitled
to judgment irrespective of whether or not the opposing party files an
opposition. (Villa v. McFerren (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 733, 742- 743.)
Thus, “the initial burden is always on the moving party to make prima facie
showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519 (citing Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)
 The
moving party’s “affidavits must cite evidentiary facts, not legal conclusions,
or ‘ultimate’ facts” and the courts must construe the evidence in support of
the opposing party, resolving any doubts in favor of the opposing party. (Hayman
v. Block (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 629, 639; Scalf, 128 Cal.App.4th at 1519;
Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
 The
opposing party on a motion for summary judgment is under no evidentiary burden
to produce rebuttal evidence until the moving party meets its initial burden. (Binder
v. Aetna Life Insurance Company (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 840.) Once the
initial movant’s burden is met, then the burden shifts to the opposing party to
show, with admissible evidence, that there is a triable issue requiring the
weighing procedures of trial. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(p).)
 Summary
judgment must be granted “if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
 Discussion
 Defendant
moves for an order granting summary judgment in its favor on the sole cause of
action for negligence in Plaintiff’s FAC. 
As
the moving party, Defendant must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element or to
establish a defense. (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128
Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.)
 Request
for Judicial Notice
 Judicial
notice may be taken of “[r]ecords of (1) any court of this state or (2) any
court of record of the United States of any state of the United States.” (Evid.
Code, § 452, subds. (d).)
 Defendant
requests the Court take judicial notice of the operative First Amended
Complaint filed by Plaintiff on March 19, 2021, in LASC Case No. 21STCV10542
and the operative First Amended Complaint filed by Plaintiff on April 18, 2019,
in LASC Case No. 19STCV13497. The requests for judicial notice filed by
Defendant are GRANTED as to the existence of the documents but not to the truth
of the matters stated therein. (Scott v. JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A.
(2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 743, 752-54.)
 Evidentiary
Objections
 The
Court may decline to rule on objections that are not material to its
disposition of the motion. (Code of Civ. Proc.
437c(q).)
 Plaintiff
submits evidentiary objections to the Declaration of Ned Collins and the
Declaration of Mario Hernandez. The Court OVERRULES objections 3-8. Plaintiff
also submits evidentiary objection to the reply evidence submitted by
Defendant. The Court OVERRULES objections 1-2.
 Defendants
submits evidentiary objections to the Declaration of Todd Roescher, the
Declaration of Adam Feit, the exhibits attached to Plaintiff’s compendium of
exhibits, the Declaration of Plaintiff, and the deposition testimony of
Plaintiff.  The objections are
OVERRULED. 
 First Cause of Action for Negligence
The elements for negligence are: (1) a legal
duty owed to the plaintiff to use due care; (2) breach of duty; (3) causation;
and (4) damage to the plaintiff. (County of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield
Co. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 292, 318.)  
             Duty
 “The first element, duty, may be imposed by
law, be assumed by the defendant, or exist by virtue of a special
relationship.” (Doe v. United States Youth Soccer Assn., Inc. (2017) 8
Cal.App.5th 1118, 1128, internal quotations omitted.)
 California Civil
Code section 1714, subdivision (a) states, in part: “[e]veryone is responsible,
not only for the result of his or her willful acts, but also for an injury
occasioned to another by his or her want of ordinary care . . . .”  “As a
general rule, each person has a duty to use ordinary care and is liable for
injuries caused by his failure to exercise reasonable care in the
circumstances.”  (Romero v. Superior Court (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th
1068, 1080, citation and quotations omitted.) 
 “The issue of
whether a duty exists is a question of law to be determined by the court . . .
.”  (Brooks v. Eugene Burger Management Corp. (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d
1611, 1620.)  A party who moves for summary judgment because it did not
owe a duty of care must affirmatively negate the existence of duty. (Eriksson
v. Nunnink (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th 826, 848-850.) 
 Here, Defendant
contends that it is entitled to summary judgment because it did not owe any
duty to Plaintiff. Specifically, Defendant argues it had no duty to “control, delegate,
hire, entrust, train, protect, and supervise” Plaintiff or anybody else to
prevent the subject accident. Defendant’s evidence in support
establishes that Plaintiff was neither an employee nor an independent
contractor, and that Plaintiff only gained access to Defendant’s
platform by using Hernandez’s California driver’s license and social security
number to create a delivery account in Hernandez’s name. (Defendant’s
Separate Statement, UMF Nos. 9-18.) Further, Defendant’s evidence establishes
that Defendant had no knowledge of Plaintiff since Defendant did not know at
the time of the subject accident that Plaintiff had posed as Hernandez to
create an account. (Defendant’s Separate Statement, UMF Nos. 19.) The Court
finds the foregoing evidence is sufficient to satisfy Defendant’s initial
burden of negating the existence of the element of duty.  The burden thus shifts to Plaintiff to raise
a triable issue of material fact as to whether Defendant owed a duty to
Plaintiff.
 Plaintiff attempts to raise a triable issue of material
fact by arguing that a special relationship existed between Plaintiff and
Postmates, thus triggering a duty. Plaintiff argues there is substantial
evidence that establishes that Defendant exercises control over its “couriers,”
including dictating which customers to deliver to and the locations deliveries
were to be made.  (Plaintiff’s Separate
Statement, UMF Nos. 57, 59, 63.)
 As a preliminary matter, the Court finds that Plaintiff
does not satisfy his responsive burden because Plaintiff does not address the
fact that he was not an authorized user of Defendant’s platform. Thus, even if Defendant
owed a duty of ordinary care to “couriers” based on a special relationship, Plaintiff’s
special relationship argument fails as Plaintiff was not a driver for Postmates.
 Plaintiff then argues that Postmates allows couriers to
establish subcontractors, and his account was created with Hernandez’s
authorization and consent. (Plaintiff’s Separate Statement, UMF No. 11.)  The Court finds, however, that Plaintiff
misstates the evidence.  The evidence establishes
that subcontracting is permitted only between authorized users of the platform
and only to persons who meet and accept all the requirements of the Fleet
Agreement and complete "the process to separately receive Delivery
Opportunities on the Postmates Platform." (Defendant’s
Response to Plaintiff’s Separate Statement, UMF No. 9.) The evidence
shows that all of the qualifications were not met here. (Defendant’s
Separate Statement, UMF Nos.  9-10, 13, 19.)  It is undisputed that Plaintiff was not an
authorized user of Defendant’s platform, that Plaintiff did not meet the qualifications
for subcontracting, and that at the time of the subject incident Defendant was
unaware of Plaintiff’s unauthorized use of Defendant’s platform. 
 Even assuming that Plaintiff was a Postmates courier, Plaintiff
fails to set forth any competent evidence that Postmates would then have a duty
to encourage Defendant to wear reflective clothing while on deliveries.  Rather, the undisputed evidence is that
Postmates couriers are independent contractors and that Postmates does not
exercise control over how couriers complete their work.  Instead, couriers are defined in the Postmates
Agreement as “independent providers of delivery services” and couriers
expressly agree they are not employees of Postmates and that they have “the
sole right to control the manner in which Deliveries are performed and the
means by which those deliveries are completed.” 
(Appx. Of Evidence in Support of Defendant’s Reply, Ex. F, p. 1) 
 While Plaintiff goes through great lengths to detail
precisely how Postmates connects couriers with customers, how deliveries are assigned,
how finances are handled, and ensuring that minors don’t access alcohol and
tobacco through the service, Plaintiff makes no reference whatsoever to
Postmates exercising control over how couriers are to actually complete their
deliveries.  (Ex. F, p. 2)  The Agreement goes on to further define the relationship
with couriers: 
  Postmates shall have
no right to, and shall not, supervise, direct or control Contractor, or control
the manner or prescribe the method Contractor uses to perform Deliveries, and
the general public and all governmental agencies regulating the activities
contemplated by this Agreement shall be so informed. Contractor shall be solely
responsible for determining the most effective, efficient, satisfactory, and
safe manner to perform Deliveries, including determining the manner of pickup, delivery,
and route selection.  (Ex. F, Para. 2B)
 The Agreement goes on to disclaim any authority to
control the means of a delivery:
  Contractor
authorizes Postmates, during the course of a Delivery, to communicate with Contractor,
customer, and/or Merchant to assist Contractor, to the extent permitted by
Contractor, in facilitating a Delivery. However, under no circumstances shall
Postmates be authorized to control the manner or means by which Contractor
performs a Delivery.  (Ex. F, Para. 3E)
 Based on these undisputed facts, Plaintiff failed to
provide evidence that would support finding that a duty arose under a special
relationship under the facts set forth in Biakanja v. Irving (1958) 49 Cal.2d
647 or Brown v. USC Taekwondo (2021) 11 Cal.5th 204.  These cases and their progeny do not stand for
the proposition of exercising control over independent contractors for the
safety of the independent contractor. 
 There is a long line of
cases in the construction context defining the duties of a principal to
subcontractors flowing from Privette v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 689 which
held that an entity that hires an independent contractor to do work generally
is not liable for on-the-job injuries to the independent contractor's workers.  The Court is satisfied that it is more
appropriate to analyze this case under the rules set forth under the body of
law flowing from Privette as it pertains to the relationship between principals
and independent contractors.
 “When a person or organization hires an independent
contractor, the hirer presumptively delegates to the contractor the
responsibility to do the work safely. [Citations.] This presumption is grounded
in two major principles: first, that independent contractors by definition
ordinarily control the manner of their own work; and second, that hirers
typically hire independent contractors precisely for their greater ability to
perform the contracted work safely and successfully.” Sandoval v. Qualcomm
Incorporated (2021) 12 Cal.5th 256, 269. 
 There are two exceptions to the Privette doctrine:  retained control and concealed hazard.  Retained control applies when: (1) the hirer
retains control over the manner in which the contractor performs the work; (2)
the hirer actually exercises its retained control by involving itself in the
work such that the contractor is not entirely free to do the work in its own
manner; and (3) the hirer's exercise of retained control affirmatively
contributes to the worker's injury. Sandoval at 276-277.  Here, retained control does not apply because
the undisputed evidence is that Postmates completely, expressly and
unambiguously disclaimed any right to control or actual control over how
deliveries were to be accomplished. 
While Plaintiff contends that Postmates dictated the order in which
deliveries should be made, this contention is not supported by the evidence.  Rather, Postmates only “suggested” delivering
to the closest address first.  (Plaintiff’s
Ex. 11:  Collins Depo., 69:1 – 69:10.)
 The concealed hazard exception is limited to situations where
the hirer is also the owner or occupier of land. Kinsman v. Unocal Corp. (2005)
37 Cal.4th 659, 675.  Here, Postmates was
not the owner or occupier of the accident site. 
Even if public policy compelled extending the concealed hazard exception
beyond land owners/occupiers, it would still not apply here for “a ‘concealed’
hazard means something specific: a hazard that the hirer either knows or
reasonably should know exists, and that the contractor does not know exists and
could not reasonably discover without the hirer's disclosure.”  Sandoval, supra, at 272.  Here, the undisputed facts are that the
California Motorcycle Handbook recommends that motorcycle riders wear
protective clothing with reflective materials. 
(Plaintiff’s Additional Undisputed Material Facts 83 – 89.)  It is further undisputed that Plaintiff took
the written test based on the California Motorcycle Handbook to obtain his
permit to drive a motorcycle.  (Defendant’s
Undisputed Material Fact 23.)  It is also
undisputed that Defendant rode a motorcycle every day for approximately 5 – 6 years.  (Defendant’s Undisputed Material Fact 27.)  Based on this record and the reasonable
inferences that can be drawn from it, there is not a triable issue of fact over
whether Defendant had knowledge of a concealed fact that Plaintiff could not
have reasonably discovered without Defendant’s disclosure. 
 Because of the findings above, the Court will not engage
in an analysis of the Rowland factors.  (Rowland
v. Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d 108.)  As Plaintiff
concedes, the first step of the Rowland analysis is whether a special
relationship or “some other set of circumstances” give rise to an affirmative
duty to protect.  (Brown, supra, 11
Cal5th at 209.)  Here, there is no
special relationship nor is there a set of circumstances giving rise to an
affirmative duty.  As such, there is no
need to conduct a Roland analysis. 
 Because the Court finds that Defendant met its initial
burden by negating the existence of duty and Plaintiff failed to raise a
triable issue of material fact, Defendant is entitled to judgment as a matter
of law.
 Accordingly, Defendant’s
motion is GRANTED.
 Moving party is
ordered to give notice.
 