  Case Number:  22AHCV00957    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2023    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



HERBERT SCHWARZ, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
HUMANGOOD,
   et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  22AHCV00957
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT STEVEN GOWAN’S DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S FIRST
   AMENDED COMPLAINT 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

September
   18, 2023



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On October 31, 2022,
plaintiff Herbert Schwarz filed this action against defendants HumanGood and
Steven Gowan (“Gowan”) (collectively, “Defendants”).  On May 8, 2023, the Court sustained Defendants’
demurer with leave to amend. 
On May 18, 2023, Plaintiff
filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). 
Plaintiff alleges he was
employed by HumanGood as an IT Help Desk Analyst from October 2017 to November
2, 2020, and that Gowan was his direct supervisor.  (FAC, ¶ 13.) 
Plaintiff alleges he was forced to resign from his position at HumanGood
because of discrimination and harassment by Gowan.  (FAC, ¶ 13.) 
Plaintiff asserts causes of action for: (1) age discrimination, (2)
harassment based on age, (3) retaliation, (4) failure to prevent
discrimination, harassment, and retaliation, (5) wrongful termination in violation
of public policy, and (6) unfair competition. 

On June 21, 2023,
Defendants filed this joint demurrer to the FAC.  Defendants challenge Plaintiff’s Second,
Fourth, and Sixth Causes of Action for harassment, failure to prevent
discrimination, harassment, and retaliation, and unfair competition. 
II.         
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a
cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda
(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.¿ (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power¿(2006)
144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)  In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.  (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters.  Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear
on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.”  (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.)  “The only
issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at
p. 747.)
III.       
DISCUSSION
a.   
Whether HumanGood May Demur
Plaintiff argues that
HumanGood has “waived” its right to demur to the action.  (Opp., pp. 5-6.)  However, as HuamnGood points out, it may still
file a motion for judgment on the pleadings, which has the same function of a
demurrer and can be made after the time for demurrer has expired.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 438.)  Accordingly, the Court treats the demurrer by
HumanGood as a motion for judgment on the pleadings (but will refer to the
document as a “joint demurrer” for clarity and convenience).
b.  
Second Cause of Action (Harassment)
To establish a claim for
harassment, a plaintiff must demonstrate that: (1) he is a member of a
protected group; (2) he was subjected to harassment because he belonged to this
group; and (3) the alleged harassment was so severe that it created a hostile work
environment.  (See Aguilar v. Avis
Rent A Car Sys., Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 121.)  Whether harassment exists based upon a
hostile work environment is determined by considering all of the circumstances,
which may include frequency, severity, and job interference.  (Miller v. Dept. of Corrections (2005)
36 Cal.4th 446, 462.)  Harassment
consists of “conduct outside the scope of necessary job performance, conduct
presumably engaged in for personal gratification, because of meanness or
bigotry, or for other personal motives.” 
(Reno v. Baird (1998) 18 Cal.4th 640, 646.)  Harassment does not include commonly
necessary personnel management actions, such as hiring, firing, job
assignments, promotion, demotion, performance evaluations, excluding from
meetings, and laying off.  (Thompson
v. City of Monrovia (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 860, 879.)  To establish a hostile work environment,
“‘[a] plaintiff must prove that the defendant’s conduct would have interfered
with a reasonable employee’s work performance and would have seriously affected
the psychological well-being of a reasonable employee and that [she] was
actually offended.’”  (Hope v.
California Youth Authority (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 577, 588.)  “Harassment is distinguishable from
discrimination under the FEHA. ‘[D]iscrimination refers to bias in the exercise
of official actions on behalf of the employer, and harassment refers to bias
that is expressed or communicated through interpersonal relations in the
workplace.’ ” (Serri v. Santa Clara University (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th
830, 869.)
Plaintiff alleges Gowan harassed him by
“assigning significantly more work to Plaintiff than his colleagues, refusing
to give Plaintiff any assistance in performing that work despite Plaintiff’s
requests for any assistance, writing up Plaintiff expressly for the purpose of
causing him distress, and keeping a ‘personal’ personnel file on Plaintiff, all
in an effort to force him out of his job.” 
(FAC, ¶ 49.)  Plaintiff adds, “All
of [Gowan]’s identified actions were outside commonly necessary personnel management
action, [sic] and were specifically engineered as part of a concerted effort to
force Plaintiff to resign due to his age and ensuing medical condition.” (FAC,
¶ 49.) Defendants argue that this new allegation is merely conclusory and does
not cure the deficiencies that the Court previously identified.  (Memo., pp. 4-5.) Defendants argue that
Plaintiff, as in his original Complaint, only alleges acts that are “of a type
necessary to carry out the duties of business and personnel management.”  (5/8/2023 Minute Order.) 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that it
is a question of fact whether assigning significantly more work and denying
assistance when he requested it constitutes harassment.  Plaintiff also argues that keeping a personal
“personnel file” is not necessary personnel management action because it does
not merely keep track of Plaintiff’s performance but is an attempt to
intimidate and harass. (Opp., p. 6.) 
The Court agrees with Defendants.
Discrimination is distinct from harassment, and while management decisions may
be made with improper motives and found discriminatory, harassment is a
different concept which “focuses on situations in which the social environment
of the workplace becomes intolerable because the harassment, whether verbal,
physical, or visual, communicates an offensive message to the harassed
employee.” (Serri, supra, 226 Cal.App.4th at p. 830.)
Accordingly, the Court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to the Second Cause of
Action. 
c.   
Fourth Cause of Action (Failure to Prevent Harassment)
Defendants argue that, if
Plaintiff’s Second Cause of Action for harassment fails, Plaintiff’s Fourth
Cause of Action for failure to prevent harassment also fails.  The Court agrees. The Court sustains Defendants’
demurrer to the Second Cause of Action.  Accordingly, their demurrer to the Fourth
Cause of Action is also sustained.
d.  
Unfair Competition
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s claim
under the Unfair Competition Law (“UCL”) fails because he lacks standing.  Defendants also argue that Plaintiff’s
request for a “declaration” is unavailable under the UCL. 
With respect to standing, Plaintiff alleges
that Defendants have “obtained valuable services from Plaintiff” and “deprived
him of valuable rights and benefits guaranteed by law.”  (FAC, ¶ 109.) 
Plaintiff requests “damages and/or restitution of all monies and profits
to be disgorged from [Defendants] . . .” (FAC, ¶ 111.) Defendants argue that Plaintiff
has not suffered an “injury in fact” or “lost money or property as a result of Defendants.”
Economic injury sufficient to support UCL standing exists where the plaintiff
“surrender[ed] in a transaction more, or acquire[d] less than he or she
otherwise would have.”  (Kwikset Corp.
v. Superior Court (2011) 51 Cal.4th 310, 333.)  Although Plaintiff criticizes Defendants’
reliance on Kwikset because it is a false advertising case and does not
involve “issues as we have in this matter”, Plaintiff cites to no other case –
and the Court cannot find any – cases brought under the UCL which involve
employment discrimination.  
Therefore, Defendants’ demurrer to the
Sixth Cause of Action is SUSTAINED.  
IV.        
CONCLUSION
Defendants’ demurrer is SUSTAINED as to
Plaintiff’s Second, Fourth, and Sixth Causes of Action with 20 days’ leave to
amend. 
 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated this 18th day of September,
2023
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear
at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and
argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
 