 Case Number:  22STCV30824    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  28 Having considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. BACKGROUND On September 21, 2022, Plaintiff Alexander Pou (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Nyjah Huston (“Huston”), John Doe (“John Doe”), and Does 1-100 for assault, battery, intentional infliction of emotional distress, negligence—motor vehicle, negligence, and negligent hiring, supervision and retention. On December 14, 2022, Huston filed an answer and a cross-complaint against Plaintiff for assault, battery, false imprisonment, intentional infliction of emotional distress and negligent infliction of emotional distress. On January 3, 2023, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendants Uber Technologies, Inc. (“Uber”) as Doe 1 and Mikael Doe (“Mikael Doe”) as Doe 2. On January 10, 2023, Huston filed a first amended cross-complaint, adding a cause of action for defamation and defamation per se.  On January 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed an answer to Huston’s first amended cross-complaint. On February 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed another answer. On April 3, 2023, Uber filed an answer to Plaintiff’s complaint. On February 6, 2024, Uber filed (1) a motion to seal its unredacted motion for a determination of good faith settlement and corresponding confidential documents and (2) a redacted motion for good faith settlement determination.  The motions were set for hearing on April 4, 2024.  The Court continued the hearing on the motion to seal to May 7, 2024.  The Court continued the motion for a good faith settlement determination to June 10, 2024.  No opposition has been filed. Trial is currently set for September 6, 2024. PARTY’S REQUEST Uber asks the Court to seal its unredacted motion for a good faith settlement determination and corresponding confidential documents (Exhibit A to the Declaration of Eleni A. Swank in Support of Uber's Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement). LEGAL STANDARD Under California Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d), “[t]he court may order that a record be filed under seal only if it expressly finds facts that establish: (1) There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record; (2) The overriding interest supports sealing the record; (3) A substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.”DISCUSSION In January 2024, Plaintiff and Uber reached a settlement agreement.  In exchange for a confidential sum, Plaintiff agreed to dismiss his claims against Uber and Mikael Doe. (Defendant Nyjah Huston is not a party to the settlement agreement.) The settlement agreement is contingent on the Court’s determination that the settlement is in good faith.  (Swank dec. ¶¶ 3-4.) The settlement agreement contains a confidentiality clause restricting the disclosure of certain specified information, including, but not limited to, the terms of the agreement and settlement amount. The parties entered into the settlement agreement with the express understanding that the settlement terms would remain confidential. Confidentiality was a material term of the settlement agreement for both parties. It was the express intent of the settling parties to the agreement to have the terms held in strict confidence. The parties to the settlement have a strong interest in keeping their financial and other private matters out of the public record, and would not have entered into the agreement without the protection of confidentiality. (Swank dec. ¶ 6.) Failure to seal the requested settlement information would result in the disclosure of private, sensitive information. There are no less restrictive means that would adequately protect the rights and interests of the settling parties. (Swank dec. ¶ 7.) The Court finds that (1) there exists an overriding interest in enabling the parties to settle this case that overcomes the right of public access to the record; (2) the overriding interest supports sealing the requested portions of the record; (3) a substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the requested portions of the record are not sealed; (4) the proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) no less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.  The Court grants the motion to seal. CONCLUSION  The Court GRANTS Defendant Uber Technologies, Inc.’s motion to seal. The Court seals (1) Defendant Uber Technologies, Inc.'s unredacted version of the motion for determination of good faith settlement and (2) Exhibit A to the Declaration of Eleni A. Swank in Support of Uber's Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement. Moving party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. Moving party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court within five days. 