  Case Number:  20STCV08922    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 



the law firm of fox and fox

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
james jones

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


20STCV08922




 


 




 


 




 


 




 
Order
  RE:
 
substitution of attorney
 



 
On August 12, 2024, the court issued an order on two Orders to Show
Cause set by the court, regarding (1) whether the answer of defendant James
Jones (“Defendant”) should be stricken, and (2) the status of the
conservatorship of the Estate of James Jones. 
In the court’s August 12, 2024 order, the court noted that Leslie
Bushnell (“Bushnell”) submitted (1) the “Durable Power of Attorney for
Management of Property and Personal Affairs,” in which Defendant appointed
Bushnell as Defendant’s attorney in fact and granted her the authority to take
any actions with respect to, inter alia, any claim asserted by or
against Defendant, and (2) a copy of a settlement agreement executed by
Bushnell, Defendant, Claudia Moody Jones, and Nicholas Jones, in which the
parties agreed that Bushnell (or, in the alternative, Nicholas Jones) would
retain the rights and powers assigned to her in the Durable Power of Attorney,
limited to those necessary to act on behalf of Defendant in any litigation,
which Bushnell attested was approved by the Probate Court in her declaration.  (Aug. 12, 2024 Order, pp. 3:19-26, 5:9-17.)  
At the August 12, 2024 hearing on the Orders to Show Cause, attorney
Vahidi appeared, asserting that Vahidi was representing Defendant.  Vahidi claimed that the Durable Power of
Attorney is not valid, while Bushnell claimed that Defendant is not competent
to make decisions about his estate, and that she retains authority to act on
Defendant’s behalf in this action pursuant to the Durable Power of Attorney.
Thereafter, on August 12, 2024, Steven S. Vahidi filed a “Substitution
of Attorney – Civil” form on behalf of Defendant, asserting that Steven S. Vahidi
has substituted in as counsel to represent Defendant.  (MC-050, ¶¶ 1-2.) 
It appears to the court that Vahidi may not have the authority to
represent Defendant in this action since the Durable Power of Attorney remains
in effect with regard to Bushnell’s authority to act on behalf of Defendant in
litigation.  
The court therefore sets for hearing on December 13, 2024, at 10:00
a.m., an Order to Show Cause (1) whether the Durable Power of Attorney granting
Leslie Bushnell the authority to act on defendant James Jones’s behalf in
prosecuting or defending litigation has been revoked or determined by a court
to be invalid and, if not, (2) whether the Substitution of Attorney – Civil
form filed by Steven S. Vahidi on behalf of defendant James Jones should be
stricken because Steven S. Vahidi did not have authority to sign and file it on
behalf of defendant James Jones.
Any response to the Order to Show Cause shall be filed and served no
later than nine court days before the hearing on the Order to Show Cause. 
            The court directs the clerk to give
notice of this ruling (1) to plaintiff Law Firm of Fox and Fox, (2) to defendant
James Jones, (3) to attorney Steven S. Vahidi, (4) to Leslie Bushnell, and (5)
to Claudia Moody Jones.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  October 10, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court