  Case Number:  24STCV12494    Hearing Date:   November 27, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Wednesday, November 27, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   24STCV12494
CASE NAME:                        Rin Mai v. Bayside Metal Exchange
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Bayside Metal
Exchange
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiff Rain Mai
TRIAL DATE:                        Not set.  
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Motion to Strike Punitive
Damages from First Amended Complaint
OPPOSITION:                        15 November 2024
REPLY:                                  19
November 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         Defendant’s motion to strike punitive damages
is granted with 10 days leave to amend. The court sets the OSC RE: Amended
Complaint for January 2, 2025, at 8:30 a.m. Defendant to give notice.

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
On May 17, 2024, Rin Mai
(“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Bayside Metal Exchange (“Defendant”).
The Complaint alleges eight causes of action for: 
1)    
Disability Discrimination
(Associational Discrimination) in Violation of Cal. Gov. Code Sections 12900
et. seq. of the Fair Employment and Housing Act (“FEHA”);
2)    
Retaliation for
Requesting/Taking California Family Rights Act Leave in Violation of Gov. Code
§ 12945.2;
3)    
Wrongful Termination in
Violation of Public Policy;
4)    
Failure to Pay Minimum
Wages;
5)    
Failure to Pay Overtime
Wages;
6)    
Failure to Authorize or
Permit Rest Periods;
7)    
Failure to Timely Pay Final
Wages; and
8)    
Unfair Competition, Cal.
Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200 et seq.
 
On
September 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) alleging the same eight causes of action as the Complaint. Defendant
now moves to strike the Complaint’s request for punitive damages. Plaintiff
opposes the Motion. The matter is now before the court. 
 
Motion to
Strike[1]
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.
(CCP, § 435(b)(1); CRC, rule 3.1322(b).) The court may, upon a motion or at any
time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP, § 436(a)-(b);
Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading
which is not essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are
surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].)¿¿¿¿ 
 
“Where the defect raised by a motion to strike or by demurrer
is reasonably capable of cure, leave to amend is routinely and liberally
granted to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the defect in question.” (CLD
Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.)
The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿¿¿ 
 
II.        Discussion
 
Defendant
moves to strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages as alleged in: 
·      
Paragraph 50, p. 6, lns. 20
- 26 (“The conduct of Defendants and each of them as described above was
malicious, fraudulent, or oppressive and done with a willful and conscious
disregard for Plaintiff’s rights. Defendants and each of them and their agents/employees,
managing agents, and/or supervisors, authorized, condoned, and ratified the
unlawful conduct of each other. Antonio “Tony” Arista, a managing agent for the
Defendants, engaged in malicious, fraudulent, or oppressive conduct which was
done with a willful and conscious disregard for Plaintiff’s rights.
Consequently, Plaintiff is entitled to punitive damages against each of said
Defendants.”)
 
·      
Paragraph 62, p. 7, lns. 23
– 28 (“The conduct of Defendants and each of them as described above was
malicious, fraudulent, or oppressive and done with a willful and conscious
disregard for Plaintiff’s rights. Defendants and each of them, and their agents/employees
or supervisors, authorized, condoned, and ratified the unlawful conduct of each
other. Antonio “Tony” Arista, a managing agent for the Defendants, engaged in
malicious, fraudulent, or oppressive conduct which was done with a willful and
conscious disregard for Plaintiff’s rights. Consequently, Plaintiff is entitled
to punitive damages against each of said Defendants.”) 
 
·      
Prayer, Paragraph 3, p. 14,
ln. 9 (“For an award of punitive damages as allowed by law;”) 
 
The court
previously granted the motion to strike punitive damages because Plaintiff
failed to articulate who was the managing agent of Defendant and what wrongful
conduct the managing agent engaged in sufficient to show that they acted with
malice, oppression, or fraud. The FAC alleges that Antonio “Tony” Arista was a
managing agent of Defendant and that he “engaged in malicious, fraudulent, or
oppressive conduct” regarding Plaintiff’s rights without specifying which
statutory rights Mr. Arista knowingly violated. (FAC, ¶¶ 50, 62.) 
 
While the
FAC alleges that Mr. Arista was Plaintiff’s supervisor and a managing agent of
Defendant, the FAC fails to allege that Mr. Arista was responsible for
reporting and compensating Plaintiff for the work performed and that despite
assigning Plaintiff’s tasks that could not be completed within an eight-hour
shift, Mr. Arista withheld overtime pay from Plaintiff, in violation of
Plaintiff’s rights. (Id., ¶¶ 22, 23.) The FAC states that Mr. Arista
approved Plaintiff’s request for time off, but that upon Plaintiff’s return to
work he “handed Plaintiff termination paperwork.” (Id., ¶¶ 25.) 
 
The FAC fails to allege
that Mr. Arista was responsible for the decision to terminate Plaintiff, that
Mr. Arista knew Plaintiff’s request for leave was protected under CFRA and/or
FEHA, and that Mr. Arista intentionally or with reckless disregard for
Plaintiff’s rights acted with malice, fraud, oppression in deciding to
retaliate against Plaintiff by terminating him. In other words, the FAC is
devoid of facts showing that Mr. Arista knew Plaintiff’s request for leave was
protected and was the primary decision maker, or ratified Defendant’s decision,
to terminate Plaintiff for taking protected leave. “ 
A “managing agent” includes “only
those corporate employees who exercise substantial
independent authority and judgment in their corporate decision-making so that
their decisions
ultimately determine corporate policy.” (White
v. Ultamar (1999) 21 Cal.4th 563, 566.) While
“supervisors who have broad discretionary powers
and exercise substantial discretionary authority in the corporation could be managing agents,” those
“supervisors who have no  discretionary
authority over decisions that ultimately determine corporate policy would not
be considered
managing agents even though they may have the ability to hire or fire other employees.”
(Id., at p. 577.) Here, the FAC fails to allege that Mr. Arista
exercised substantial independent authority and judgment in determining the
corporate policy of Defendant and had discretionary authority to terminate or
recommend the termination of Plaintiff. 
In the
absence of such facts, the court cannot find that the FAC states sufficient
facts to support a claim for punitive damages against Defendant. The motion to
strike is granted with leave to amend. 


