 Case Number:  21STCV12593    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  8  
 Tentative Ruling  HEARING DATE:  February 2, 2024CASE NUMBER:  21STCV12593  CASE NAME: Grace Gangapersaud, et al. v. Robinson Helicopter Company, et al. MOVING PARTY: Attorneys for Plaintiffs   RESPONDING PARTY: None.     TRIAL DATE:  March 18, 2024  MOTION:  (1) Application for T. Patton Youngblood, Jr. to appear Counsel Pro Hac Vice    Tentative Rulings:  (1) GRANTED     I. BACKGROUNDFactual On April 1, 2021, Plaintiffs, Grace Gangapersaud, Ryan Persaud, Sharita Persaud, Lavendranauth Persaud, Jamwantee Sukhu, and Neelomie Cooper (“Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint against Defendants, Robinson Helicopter Company, Inc., Lycoming Engines, an operating division of Avco Corporation, Massachusetts Corporation, HBD Industries, Inc., an Ohio Corporation, HBD/Thermoid, Inc., an Ohio Corporation, FSH Maintenance, LLC, a Florida, Corporation, Florida Suncoast Helicopters, LLC, a Florida Corporation, and DOES 1 through 25 (“Defendants”). The Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Strict Products Liability – Against Robinson Helicopter Company; (2) Negligence – product Liability – Against  Robinson Helicopter Company; (3) Negligence – Diagnosis, Repair and Transport/Flight – Against Robinson Helicopter Company; (4) Breach of Implied Warranty of Merchantability – Against Robinson Helicopter Company; (5) Negligence – Against Florida Suncoast Helicopters and FSH Maintenance, LLC; (6) Strict Products Liability – Against Lycoming; (7) Negligence Products Liability – Against Lycoming; (8) Strict Products Liability – Against HBD; and (9) Negligence Products Liability – Against HBD.    Counsel for Plaintiffs now files a Motion to Appear as Counsel Pro Hac Vice of T. Patton Youngblood, Jr..   B. Procedural   On January 8, 2024, Attorneys for Plaintiffs submitted an Application for T. Patton Youngblood, Jr. to be admitted as counsel pro hac vice for Plaintiffs. To date, no opposition has been filed.    II. ANALYSIS Legal Standard  To be eligible for admission pro hac vice, the applicant must be admitted to practice before a U.S. court or the highest court of any state or territory, must not be a California resident, must be associated with a member of the California bar, must have noticed the California State Bar in San Francisco at least 21 calendar days before the hearing, and must have paid $50.00 to the State Bar. Further, pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 9.40 the moving papers must state: (1) The applicant's residence and office address; (2) The courts to which he has been admitted to practice and the dates of such admission; (3) That the applicant is a member in good standing in those courts; (4) That the applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court; (5) The title of the court and cause in which he has filed an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in the preceding two years, the date of such application and whether or not it was granted; and (6) The name, address and telephone number of the active member of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record.  Discussion   On review of the moving papers, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have sufficiently shown that T. Patton Youngblood, Jr. is admitted to practice in good standing before at least one U.S. Court (Youngblood Decl., ¶ 6.) Plaintiff attorneys have also included the dates of admission. (Youngblood Decl., ¶ 6.) Plaintiffs also note that Youngblood is associated with an attorney of record who is a member of the California Bar. (Declaration of Thomas J. Johnston (“Johnston Decl.”), ¶ 1.) Further, the moving papers affirm that Youngblood has noticed the California State Bar along with paying the associated $50 State Bar fee. (Youngblood Decl., ¶ 14; Johnston Decl., ¶ 4.) Lastly, Youngblood has provided both his office address, and resident address. Because Counsel for Plaintiffs have met the requirements, the Court grants the instant motion.¿  III. CONCLUSION  For the foregoing reasons, Attorney for Plaintiffs’ Motion for Approval of T. Patton Youngblood, Jr. to Appear as Counsel Pro Hac Vice is GRANTED.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.     

