  Case Number:  20PSCV00396    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  K Defendants Hanmi Bank’s and Andrew Chong’s Demurrer to
Plaintiffs’ Second Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED. The court will hear from counsel for Plaintiffs as to whether leave to
amend is requested, if so, as to which cause(s) of action, and the court will
require an offer of proof if so.
Background[1]
   
Plaintiffs Sukhdev Vasisht (“Vasisht”)
and Vansukh, Inc. (“Vansukh” and collectively with Vasisht as “Plaintiffs”) allege
as follows:
Sometime in 2019,
Rajinder Adlakha (“Rajinder”) approached Vasisht about selling a commercial
property and a business located thereon to Plaintiff. Rajinder represented that
he was the owner of said commercial property on which he owned and operated a
laundromat and check cashing business and that a 7-Eleven franchisee was a
tenant of the other unit at the property. Rajinder also conveyed that he was
the operator and day-to-day manager of the laundromat and checking cashing
business and that said businesses had a strong cashflow. Rajinder showed Vasisht
a 2017 financial statement showing the business’s revenue and further
represented that (1) the property collected $6,000.00 in monthly rent from the
7-Eleven tenant and that a 10% increase would take effect on January 1, 2020;
(2) the laundromat and check cashing business paid $5,000.00 in monthly rent to
Rajinder and that (3) the business generated $142,000.00 in net profits per
year, as per a 2017 profit and loss statement provided by Rajinder to Vasisht. 
 
When Vasisht advised
that he did not have sufficient liquidity to make such a purchase, Rajinder told
Vasisht that the sale of the commercial property would qualify for an
SBA-backed purchase money loan and that he would be willing to carry a
promissory note on any leftover amount the SBA would not cover. Rajinder
introduced Vasisht to an agent, David Oak (“Oak”), to serve as a dual agent in
the sale. Vasisht then met with Andrew Chong (“Chong”),
a manager at Hanmi Bank (“Bank”), who directed Vasisht’s SBA loan submission. Vansukh
is also a guarantor on the loan. The day of loan signing, Oak presented a new
offer agreement to Vasisht as Reena Sona Adlakha (“Reena”) was the actual owner
of the property. 
 
After escrow closed,
Reena and Rajinder failed to sign supplemental contract documents, withdrew
rotation money, failed to pay the mortgage payments on Vasisht’s SBA loan and
abandoned the business prior to the business changeover. Vasisht also learned
that the property was damaged, that the rent increase from the 7-11 tenant
would not take effect until March 2021, that his SBA loan is subject to
voidance or cancellation because the property does not conform to SBA loan
eligibility requirements, that the business generates a fraction of the revenues
stated in the 2017 financial statement, that the 7-11 lease agreement he
received prior to the close of escrow was forged and that the check cashing
component of the business was actually a separate business owned by a corporate
entity known as “Adlakha & Adlakha, Inc.”
On July 27, 2020, Rajinder’s default was
entered. On August 21, 2020, Defendant United States Small Business
Administration (“USSBA”) filed a “Notice to State Court and Adverse Party of
Removal of Civil Action to United States District Court.” On September 10,
2020, an “Order Granting Defendant United States Small Business
Administration’s Motion to Dismiss” was filed, wherein USSBA was ordered
dismissed and the matter was remanded to state court.
On October 30, 2020, USSBA filed another
“Notice to State Court and Adverse Party of Removal of Civil Action to United
States District Court.” On February 22, 2021, an “Order Granting Defendant
United States Small Business Administration’s Motion to Dismiss” was filed,
wherein USSBA was ordered dismissed and the matter was remanded to state court.
On July 9, 2021, Plaintiffs filed a Second Amended
Complaint (“SAC”) asserting causes of action against Bank, Rajinder, Reena
(individually and as trustee of the Pinewood Irrevocable Trust Dated April 7,
2018) (“Reena”), Chong, Adlakha & Adlakha and Does 1-100 for:
1.                 
Rescission—Civil
Code § 1689 [Bank]
2.                 
Cancellation
of Written Instrument—Civil Code § 3412 [Bank]
3.                 
Fraud—Concealment
[Bank and Chong]
4.                 
Fraud—Intentional
Misrepresentation of Fact [Bank and Chong]
5.                 
Negligent
Misrepresentation [Bank and Chong]
6.                 
Breach
of Contract [Bank]
7.                 
Tortious
Breach of Contract [Bank]
8.                 
Breach
of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing [Bank]
9.                 
Unfair
Competition—Business and Professions Code § 17200 [Bank and Chong]
10.             
Civil
Conspiracy [Bank and Chong]
11.             
Declaratory
Relief [Bank and Chong]
12.             
Negligence
[Bank and Chong]
13.             
Breach
of Fiduciary Duty [Bank and Chong]
14.             
Aiding
and Abetting Fraud—Intentional Misrepresentation of Fact [Bank and Chong]
15.             
Aiding
and Abetting Fraud—Concealment [Bank and Chong]
16.             
Aiding
and Abetting Fraud—Negligent Misrepresentation of Fact [Bank and Chong]
17.             
Aiding
and Abetting Breach of Fiduciary Duty
On January 27, 2022, the court granted Rajinder’s and Reena’s Motion to
Compel Arbitration as to Vasisht
and ordered all other matters stayed pending completion of arbitration.
On April 1, 2022, Adlakha & Adlakha’s default was entered.
On January 17, 2023, counsel, with the consent of their clients,
agreed to terminate the prior order regarding arbitration and stipulated to
place this matter back on the court’s calendar; on that date, the court lifted
the stay on the case in its entirety.
The Final Status Conference is set for April 30, 2024. Trial is set for
May 14, 2024.
Legal Standard
A
demurrer may be made on the grounds that the pleading, inter alia, does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and/or is uncertain.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e)&(f).)
When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of
the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A
demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905 [citations omitted].) At the pleading stage, a
plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant
of the factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) “[A] demurrer
does not, however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law
alleged in the pleading, or the construction placed on an instrument pleaded
therein, or facts impossible in law, or allegations contrary to facts of which
a court may take judicial knowledge.” (S.
Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732 [citations
omitted].)
Discussion
Bank demurs, pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure, subdivisions (e) and (f), to the first through
sixteenth causes of action in Plaintiffs’ SAC, on the basis that they each fail
to state facts sufficient to constitute causes of action and are uncertain.
Chong demurs, on the above grounds, to the third through fifth and ninth
through sixteenth causes of action in Plaintiffs’ SAC. [2]
Request for Judicial
Notice
The court rules on
Bank’s and Chong’s Request for Judicial Notice (“RJN”) as follows:
1.                 
Granted as to
Exhibit A (i.e., “Site Visit Report” dated September 16, 2019 from Checkmate
Inspections, attached as Exhibit C to Plaintiffs’ SAC); 
2.                 
Denied as to
Exhibit B (i.e., “7-Eleven Lease”);
3.                 
Denied as to
Exhibit C (i.e., “SBA Authorization signed by Plaintiff and dated November 22,
2019”); 
4.                 
Denied as to
Exhibit D (i.e., “Borrower and Operating Company Certification, signed by
Plaintiff”) and 
5.                 
Denied as to
Exhibit E (i.e., “Business Loan Agreement between Plaintiff and Hanmi, signed
by Plaintiff and dated November 26, 2019”). 
Merits
First
Cause of Action (i.e., Rescission—Civil
Code § 1689)
Plaintiffs’ first cause of action seeks
rescission of the loan, the commercial property purchase agreement and the
business purchase agreement pursuant to Civil Code § 1689, subdivision (b)[3]
based upon alleged misrepresentations or concealments by “defendants.” (SAC, ¶
125).
The parties to the loan agreement are Vasisht
and Hanmi (with Vansukh as guarantor [see SAC, ¶ 122]); as such, the mistake, duress,
menace, fraud, or undue influence to support rescission under subdivision
(b)(1) would need to be with Hanmi’s connivance.
Plaintiffs,
however, have alleged that Rajinder “explained that he was the
owner of said commercial property on which he owned and operated a laundromat
and check cashing business, and that a 7-Eleven franchisee was a tenant of the
other unit at the property” (SAC, ¶ 22); “represented to [Vasisht]. . .that
“the laundromat and check cashing business had a strong cashflow and showed a
2017 financial statement to Plaintiff VASISHT showing the business’s revenue” (Id.,
¶ 23); represented to Plaintiff VASISHT that the property collected $6,000.00
in monthly rent from the 7-Eleven tenant and that a ten percent increase would
take effect on January 1, 2020 (Id.); “represented that  the laundromat and check cashing business paid
$5,000.00 in monthly rent to said defendant” (Id.); and “represented
that the business generated $142,000.00 in net profits per year, as per a 2017
profit and loss statement provided by said defendant to Plaintiff VASISHT” (Id.).
Plaintiffs have alleged that Hanmi ordered a site inspection report from
Checkmate Inspections (Id., ¶ 34) and that “prior to the close of
escrow, . . .RAJINDER . . .presented to . . . HANMI a forged lease agreement
under which 7-Eleven was named as a tenant who was occupying less than 49% of
the Subject Property,” which was relied upon by Checkmate Inspections in its
September 16, 2019 report (Id., ¶¶ 37 and 67).
The
above misrepresentations and/or concealments are alleged to have been made by Rajinder,
not Hanmi and/or Chong.
Further,
Plaintiffs have alleged that Vasisht discussed the property appraisal report by
Appraisal Pacific, Inc. dated October 3, 2019 (which allegedly “showed
different percentages of the square footage occupied by Pronto Laundry and the
7-Eleven tenant that did not confirm to The SBA 7(a) owner-occupied loan
requirement;” SAC, ¶ 36) with Chong and that Chong “represented to [Vasisht] that
the finding in the appraisal report was incorrect and the correct square
footage was referenced in the lease agreement between the 7-Eleven tenant and
the property owner and attached to the appraisal report, and thus Plaintiff
VASISHT’s loan satisfied the requirements for an SBA loan. . .” (Id., ¶¶
38 and 40). Plaintiffs have also alleged that Chong represented to Vasisht that
“a separate site inspection report had since been completed” (i.e., the
Checkmate Inspections report), which “confirmed the Subject Property qualified
for the SBA loan.” (Id., ¶ 41). Plaintiff has not pled any facts
suggesting that Chong and/or Hanmi were aware at the time Chong made the above
statements that they were false or that they knew that the lease agreement
Rajinder provided them reflecting that the 7-Eleven tenant occupied less than
49% of the subject property was forged or otherwise fraudulent.
Plaintiffs
have also alleged that Chong “knew” that Reena was not the owner of the
check-cashing business and that the lease agreement of the Pronto Laundry did
not permit operation of the check cashing business on the premises (SAC, ¶ 70)
and that the revenues generated by the Subject Property and Pronto Laundry were
insufficient to satisfy a DSCR of 1.15 (Id., ¶ 73), but does not support
these conclusory statement with any facts.
Bank’s demurrer to the first cause of action
is sustained.
Second Cause of Action (i.e., Cancellation of
Written Instrument—Civil Code § 3412)
Plaintiffs’ second cause of action seeks
cancellation of the loan, the Commercial Property Purchase Agreement and
Business Purchase Agreement pursuant to Civil Code § 3412 (i.e., “[a] written
instrument, in respect to which there is a reasonable apprehension that if left
outstanding it may cause serious injury to a person against whom it is void or
voidable, may, upon his application, be so adjudged, and ordered to be
delivered up or canceled”). An instrument “means a written paper signed by a
person or persons transferring the title to, or giving a lien on real property,
or giving a right to a debt or duty.” (Govt. Code § 27279, subd. (a)
[emphasis added].)
The court
disagrees with Hanmi’s assertion, without more, that “the Loan Agreement is not
an instrument pursuant to Gov. Code § 27279, and Civil Code § 3423 does not
even apply.” (Dem., 16:10-11). 
Moving on, to state
a cause of action under section 3412, Plaintiffs must allege that the
instrument is “void or voidable” against them and would cause “serious injury”
if not canceled. (Saterbak v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2016) 245
Cal.App.4th 808, 818-819.) Plaintiffs have failed to allege how the loan
agreement is void or voidable.
Bank’s demurrer to the second cause of action
is sustained.
Third Through Fifth Causes of Action (i.e.,
Fraud—Concealment, Fraud—Intentional Misrepresentation of Fact and Negligent
Misrepresentation, Respectively)
Plaintiffs’ third through fifth causes of
action are grounded in fraud and negligent misrepresentation, respectively.
“The essential allegations of an action for fraud are a
misrepresentation, knowledge of its falsity, intent to defraud, justifiable
reliance, and resulting damage.” (Roberts
v. Ball, Hunt, Hart, Brown & Baerwitz (1976) 57 Cal.App.3d 104, 109.) “The elements of negligent misrepresentation are (1) the misrepresentation
of a past or existing material fact, (2) without reasonable ground for believing it to be true, (3) with intent to
induce another's reliance on the fact misrepresented, (4) justifiable reliance on the misrepresentation, and (5) resulting damage.” (Apollo Capital
Fund, LLC v. Roth Capital Partners, LLC (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 226, 243.)
“Fraud must be pleaded with specificity…[t]o withstand a
demurrer, the facts constituting
every element of the fraud must be alleged with particularity, and the claim
cannot be salvaged by references to the general policy favoring the liberal
construction of pleadings.” (Goldrich v.
Natural Y Surgical Specialties, Inc. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 772, 782
[emphasis in original].) “This particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to
whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.” (Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220
Cal.App.3d 59, 73 (emphasis in original; internal quotations and citation
omitted].) Likewise, “[e]ach element in a cause of action for.
. . negligent misrepresentation must be factually and specifically alleged.” (Cadlo
v. Owens-Illinois, Inc. (2004) 125 C.A.4th 513, 519 [citation
omitted].)
Plaintiffs have failed to plead the aforesaid
causes of action with the requisite specificity. Plaintiffs lump numerous
defendants together as having concealed a multitude of facts in Paragraph 149
and made a multitude of misrepresentations in Paragraphs 159 and 177, without
distinguishing which defendant concealed what fact or made what misrepresentation,
when, where and by what means. Again, the purported misrepresentations set
forth above appear to have been done by Rajinder. Further, to the extent Plaintiffs
allege that Hanmi and/or Chong knew that the true owner of Pronto Laundry was
Adlakha & Adlakha, Inc., it is unclear how the withholding of this fact to
Plaintiffs caused damages. Bank and Chong’s demurrer to the third through fifth
causes of action is sustained.
Sixth Through Eighth Causes of Action (i.e.,
Breach of Contract and Tortious Breach of Contract, Respectively)
Plaintiffs have alleged that “[b]y way of
written agreements, namely, The Loan, the Commercial Property Purchase
Agreement and Business Purchase Agreement. . .defendants, as sellers or lender,
agreed to sell Plaintiff a commercial real property that, in fact, qualified
for 7(a) SBA loan that Plaintiff obtained and by which he purchased said
property” (SAC, ¶ 195) and that defendants “breached the agreements. . . by
selling a commercial property that is ineligible for the type of SBA loan that
Plaintiff obtained” (Id., ¶ 204). Plaintiffs, however, have alleged that
Hanmi financed Vasisht’s purchase of the subject property (Id., ¶ 19);
they have not alleged that Hanmi sold the property to either of them.
Bank’s demurrer to the six and seventh causes
of action is sustained.
Eighth Cause of Action (i.e., Breach of the
Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing)
“There is an
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing in every contract that neither
party will do anything which will injure the right of the other to receive the
benefits of the agreement.” (Comunale v. Traders & General Ins. Co.
(1958) 50 Cal.2d 654, 658.) “Generally, no cause of action for the tortious
breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing can arise unless
the parties are in a ‘special relationship’ with ‘fiduciary characteristics.’”
(Pension Trust Fund v. Federal Ins. Co. (9th Cir. 2002) 307 F.3d 944,
955.)
Plaintiffs have
not identified any “special relationship” between them and Hanmi and Chong (see
below) or explained how they failed to discharge their contractual duties.
Bank’s demurrer to the eighth cause of action
is sustained.
Ninth Cause of Action (i.e., Unfair
Competition—Business and Professions Code § 17200)
The
elements required to state a cause of action for violation of Business &
Professions Code section 17200 are (1) a business practice, (2) that is unfair,
unlawful or fraudulent, and (3) an authorized remedy. (Bus. and Prof. Code §
17200). When a plaintiff alleges a UCL action against multiple defendant, he
must allege that he “suffered injury in fact [or] lost money or property as a
result of [alleged] unfair competition” of each defendant. (Schultz v. Neovi
Data Corp. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 86, 92.) Plaintiffs instead lump multiple
defendants together and do not specify Hanmi’s and Chong’s unlawful business
practices.
Further,
in order to have standing under the UCL, a private plaintiff must allege that
he “has suffered injury in fact
and has lost money or property as a result of the unfair competition.” (Bus.
& Prof. Code § 17204). Plaintiffs have failed to identify any money or
property they have lost as a result of Hanmi’s and Chong’s unlawful business
practices. (See SAC, ¶ 255).
Bank and Chong’s demurrer to the ninth cause
of action is sustained.
Tenth Cause of Action (i.e., Civil
Conspiracy)
A claim for civil
conspiracy includes the following elements: “(1) the formation and operation of
the conspiracy, (2) wrongful conduct in furtherance of the conspiracy, and (3)
damages arising from the wrongful conduct.” (Kidron v. Movie Acquisition
Corp. (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1571, 1581.)
“The basis of a
civil conspiracy is the formation of a group of two or more persons who have
agreed to a common plan or design to commit a tortious act. The conspiring
defendants must also have actual knowledge that a tort is planned and concur in
the tortious scheme with knowledge of its unlawful purpose.” (Id. at
1582 [internal quotations and citation omitted].)
Plaintiffs have
not pled these elements, as set forth above.
Bank and Chong’s demurrer to the tenth cause
of action is sustained.
Eleventh Cause of Action (i.e., Declaratory
Relief)
Plaintiffs seek “a judicial declaration
of the rights, duties, responsibilities, obligations, and liabilities, if any,
of the respective parties pertaining to the sale of the Subject Property and
Pronto Laundry, and the agreement(s) entered into by the parties pertaining
to them.” (SAC, ¶ 274 [emphasis added]). Hanmi and Chong were involved in the
SBA loan, not the sale of the subject property; as such, there is no judicial
determination to be made involving Hanmi and Chong.
Bank and Chong’s demurrer to the eleventh
cause of action is sustained.
Twelfth Cause of Action (i.e., Negligence)
“The elements of any
negligence cause of action are duty, breach of duty, proximate cause, and
damages.” (Peredia v. HR Mobile Services,
Inc. (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 680, 687.)
“[A]s a general
rule, a financial institution owes no duty of care to a borrower when the
institution's involvement in the loan transaction does not exceed the scope of
its conventional role as a mere lender of money.” (Nymark v. Heart Fed.
Savings & Loan Assn. (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1089, 1096.) “Liability to a
borrower for negligence arises only when the lender ‘actively participates’ in
the financed enterprise ‘beyond the domain of the usual money lender.’” (Wagner
v. Benson (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 27, 35.)
Plaintiffs cite to the Biakanja v. Irving
(1958) 49 Cal.2d 647, 650 factors as having been examined in a “2013 Court of
Appeals case” “to test whether the lender owe[s] a duty of care to the
borrower” (SAC, ¶ 81); these are “the extent to which the transaction was intended
to affect the plaintiff, the foreseeability of harm to him, the degree of
certainty that the plaintiff suffered injury, the closeness of the connection
between the defendant's conduct and the injury suffered, the moral blame
attached to the defendant's conduct, and the policy of preventing future harm.”
Here, though, Plaintiffs have not addressed these factors to the facts at hand;
instead, the facts alleged reflect that there was no ongoing relationship
between Plaintiffs, Hanmi and Chong, that Hanmi and Chong’s role was limited to
funding the loan consistent with the loan agreement’s terms and that, once the
loan was funded, Hanmi’s job as lender was completed.
Plaintiffs also cite
SOP 50 10 5(K)—the SBA’s Standard Operating Procedures for Lenders and alleges
that Hanmi breached its duties under SBA’s Procedures. (SAC, ¶ 282). Plaintiffs
have not provided the court with any authority suggesting that the SBA’s
Procedures create a private right of action for borrowers against lenders who
may violate them or that said violations can form the basis of a borrower’s
negligence claim. Any affirmative duty created by these procedures would appear
to run to SBA, not to Plaintiffs.
Bank and Chong’s demurrer to the twelfth
cause of action is sustained.
Thirteenth Cause of Action (i.e., Breach of
Fiduciary Duty)
“The elements of a cause of action for
breach of fiduciary duty are: 1) the existence of a fiduciary duty; 2) a breach
of the fiduciary duty; and 3) resulting damage.” (Pellegrini v. Weiss (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 515, 524 [citation omitted].)

“Absent special circumstances, a loan does
not establish a fiduciary relationship between a commercial bank and its
debtor.” (Das v. Bank of America, N.A. (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 727, 740.)
Plaintiffs have not pled special circumstances, as set forth above.
Bank and Chong’s demurrer to the thirteenth
cause of action is sustained.
Fourteenth Through Sixteenth Causes of Action
(i.e., Aiding and Abetting Fraud—Intentional Misrepresentation of Fact, Aiding
and Abetting Fraud—Concealment and Aiding and Abetting Fraud—Negligent
Misrepresentation of Fact, Respectively)
“To be held liable as a cotortfeasor, a defendant
must have knowledge and intent.... A defendant can be held liable as a
cotortfeasor on the basis of acting in concert only if he or she knew that a
tort had been, or was to be, committed, and acted with the intent of facilitating the commission of that tort.”
(Casey v. U.S. Bank Nat. Assn. (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 1138, 1146
[quotations and citation omitted].). “Liability may . . .be imposed on one who aids
and abets the commission of an intentional tort if the person (a) knows the
other's conduct constitutes a breach of duty and gives substantial assistance
or encouragement to the other to so act or (b) gives substantial assistance to
the other in accomplishing a tortious result and the person's own conduct,
separately considered, constitutes a breach of duty to the third person.” (Saunders
v. Superior Court (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 832, 846.)
Plaintiffs have not pled intent and substantial assistance by
Bank and Chong.
Bank and Chong’s demurrer to
the fourteenth through sixteenth causes of action is sustained.

