 Case Number:  21PSCV00574    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  K Plaintiff Terry Halley’s Motion to Set Aside Dismissal is
GRANTED. 
Background[1]  
Plaintiff Terry Halley (“Plaintiff”)
alleges as follows:
On December 27, 2019, Plaintiff
purchased a 2015 Dodge Challenger, VIN #2C3CDZAT7FH757551 (“subject vehicle”)
from Nuovo Milennio Auto Group LLC dba Avision Auto (“Dealer”). Dealer
represented that it had title to the subject vehicle; however, the subject
vehicle has been repossessed.
On July 14, 2021, Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting
causes of action against Dealer, Hudson Insurance Company (“Bond”) and Does
1-50 for:
1.                 
Violation of the Consumer Legal Remedies Act 
2.                 
Claim Against Dealer Bond 
On March 10, 2023, the court dismissed the instant case
without prejudice for Plaintiff’s failure to prosecute.
Legal Standard
“The court may, upon any terms as
may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a
judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her
through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application
for this
relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed
to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall
be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the
judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken . . .
Notwithstanding any
other requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application
for relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in
proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to
his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1)
resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which
will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment
or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the
default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)

Discussion
Plaintiff moves the court for an order, pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure § 473, subdivision (b), setting aside the dismissal of this
case on the basis of inadvertence, surprise, mistake, or excusable neglect.
Ecourt records reflect that the court dismissed the instant
case without prejudice on March 10, 2023 for Plaintiff’s failure to prosecute.
The instant motion was filed on August 30, 2023, which is within six months
after the dismissal.
Plaintiff’s counsel Pauliana N. Lara (“Lara”) attests that
“for reasons unknown” the December 12, 2022 Case Management Conference “did not
make it onto the firm’s calendar,” such that Plaintiff did not appear. (Lara
Decl., ¶ 8). Lara further attests that “HUDSON prepared and sent a Notice of
Ruling on December 16, 2022 advising of the continued hearing to March 10,
2023. I believe our firm noted this an [sic] an ‘interpleader’ matter and again
for no good reason this matter was not saved under the Invidual [sic] client's
calendar and once again did not appear as a mandatory hearing for us.” (Id.,
¶ 9).
The motion is granted, and the case is ordered restored to
the civil active list.


