 Case Number:  24TRCV00039    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  E 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. E




 
DEVYLLE
  CAMPBELL,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:


 
24TRCV00039




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  Granted
 




 
HILTON
  WORLDWIDE HOLDINGS, INC.; PARK HOTELS & RESORTS, INC.; SEAVIEW INVESTORS
  LLC; EMBASSY SUITES BY HILTON LOS ANGELES INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT NORTH;
  MAURICIO JOYA; and DOES 1 through 20, inclusive,


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:              October
10, 2024
 
Moving Parties:          Defendant Park Hotels
 
Responding Party:      Plaintiff Devylle Campbell
 
HEARING: MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF
SUMMONS AND TO DISMISS FOR LACK OF PERSONAL JURISDICTION
 
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
 
RULING
 
            The Court
grants the Motion to Quash Summons and Dismiss for Lack of Personal
Jurisdiction. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On
January 5, 2024, Plaintiff Devylle Campbell filed the Complaint alleging causes
of action for battery, negligence, IIED, fraudulent concealment, private
nuisance, public nuisance, and breach of contract against Defendants Hilton Worldwide Holdings, Inc.,
Park Hotels & Resorts, Inc., Seaview Investors LLC., Embassy Suites By
Hilton Los Angeles International Airport North, Mauricio Joya, and Does 1 through
20, Inclusive arising from an alleged bed bug incident that occurred at the Embassy
Suites By Hilton Los Angeles International Airport North on January 28, 2022.
 
            On August 30, 2024, Defendant Park
Hotels & Resorts, Inc. filed the instant Motion to Quash Service of Summons
and to Dismiss for Lack of Personal Jurisdiction.
 
            On September 23, 2024, Plaintiff
filed the Opposition.
 
            On September 30, 2024, Defendant
filed the Reply
            
LEGAL STANDARD
 
            “A defendant, on or
before the last day of his or her time to plead or within any further time that
the court may for good cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion for
one or more of the following purposes: (1) To quash service of summons on the
ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 418.10, subd. (a).)  
 
In California, courts are authorized to
“exercise jurisdiction over parties on any basis not inconsistent with the
Constitution of [California] or the United States.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
410.10.) Personal jurisdiction may be either general or specific. (Vons
Companies, Inc., supra, 14 Cal.4th at 445.) “The nature and
the quality of the defendant’s contacts determine whether jurisdiction, if
exercised, is general or specific. General jurisdiction exists when a defendant
is domiciled in the forum state or his activities there are substantial,
continuous, and systematic.” (F. Hoffman-La Roche, Ltd. v. Superior Court (2005)
130 Cal.App.4th 782, 796.) Where the contacts are sufficiently substantial,
continuous, and systematic, it is not necessary that the cause of action
alleged be connected with the defendant’s business relationship to the forum. (Vons,
supra, 14 Cal.4th at 445.) However, “contacts that are random,
fortuitous, or attenuated do not rise to the minimum level, and general
jurisdiction cannot be exercised under these circumstances.” (F. Hoffman-La
Roche, Ltd., supra, 130 Cal.App.4th at 795.) 
 
If a defendant’s contacts with the forum state
are not substantial, continuous, and systematic, the defendant may be subject
to specific jurisdiction. “A court may exercise specific jurisdiction over a
nonresident defendant only if: (1) ‘the defendant has purposefully availed
himself or herself of forum benefits’ [citation]; (2) ‘the “controversy is
related to or ‘arises out of’ [the] defendant's contacts with the forum”’
[citations]; and (3) ‘“the assertion of personal jurisdiction would comport
with ‘fair play and substantial justice.’” ‘[Citations.]” (Pavlovich (2002)
29 Cal.4th 262, 269.) 
 
When a defendant challenges personal
jurisdiction, the plaintiff has the burden to prove, by a preponderance of the
evidence, the factual basis for the exercise of jurisdiction. (Vons,
supra, 14 Cal.4th at 449.) 
 
“[W]hen the facts giving rise to jurisdiction
are conflicting, the trial court’s factual determinations are reviewed for
substantial evidence . . . . Even then, we review independently the trial
court's conclusions as to the legal significance of the facts . . . . When the
jurisdictional facts are not in dispute, whether the defendant is subject to
personal jurisdiction is purely a legal question that we review de novo.” (F.
Hoffman-La Roche, Inc., supra, 130 Cal.App.4th at 794; accord
Muckle v. Superior Court (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 218, 228.)
 
Evidence consisting of “vague assertions of
ultimate fact rather than specific evidentiary facts” is insufficient to meet
the burden of showing minimum contacts. (Paneno v. Centres for Academic
Programmes Abroad Ltd. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 1447, 1454.)
 
DISCUSSION 
 
When a defendant challenges personal
jurisdiction, Plaintiff has the burden to prove, by a preponderance of the
evidence, the factual basis for the exercise of jurisdiction. (Vons,
supra, 14 Cal.4th at 449.) 
 
            Here, Plaintiff has provided no evidence that California
has personal jurisdiction over Defendant. In the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges
that “at all times mentioned herein, Plaintiff is informed, believes, and
thereon alleges that Defendant, PARK HOTELS & RESORTS, INC., a Virginia
corporation with its principal executive offices in McLean, Virginia, owns,
operates, manages, and is doing business as EMBASSY SUITES BY HILTON LOS
ANGELES INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT NORTH, a business form unknown, located at 9801
Airport Blvd, Los Angeles, California 90045.” (Complaint ¶ 5.) However,
Plaintiff must “do more than merely allege jurisdictional facts.” (In re Auto.
Antitrust Cases I & II (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 100, 110.) Furthermore,
Plaintiff provides no further facts or arguments in its opposition, which would
lead to a finding of personal jurisdiction.
 
            Therefore, the Court grants the Motion to Quash Summons and
Dismiss for Lack of Personal Jurisdiction. 
 
 