 Case Number:  24TRCV00701    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  E 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest District
Torrance Dept. E




 
SCOTT
  CARR,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV00701




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  Denied
 




 
STADCO
  LA, LLC, a limited liability company; STADCO LA MANAGER, LLC, a limited liability
  company; HOLLYWOOD PARK MANAGEMENT COMPANY, LLC, a limited liability company;
  HOLLYWOOD PARK MANAGEMENT COMPANY II, LLC, a limited liability company; HOLLYWOOD
  PARK LAND COMPANY, LLC, a limited liability company; and DOES 1-\ 100,
  inclusive


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:              October
10, 2024        
 
Moving Parties:          Defendants Stadco LA, LLC, Stadco La
Manager, LLC, Hollywood Park Management Company, LLC, Hollywood Park Management
Company II, LLC And Hollywood Park Land Company, LLC
Responding
Party:      Plaintiff Scott Carr
HEARING:
Motion to Compel Arbitration
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers.
RULING
            The Court denies Defendants
Motion to Compel Arbitration.
BACKGROUND
On February 29, 2024, Plaintiff Scott Carr
filed the Complaint alleging causes of action for negligence and premises liability
against Defendants
Stadco LA, LLC, Stadco LA Manager, LLC, Hollywood Park Management Company, LLC,
Hollywood Park Management Company II, LLC And Hollywood Park Land Company, LLC
arising from an alleged slip and fall at SOFI Stadium.
            On May 22, 2024, Defendants filed
the instant Motion to Compel Arbitration.
 
            On July 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
Opposition.
 
            On October 2, 2024, Defendants filed
the Reply.      
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
The Federal Arbitration Act (the “FAA”)
applies in both federal and state courts to contracts evidencing a transaction
involving interstate commerce. (9 U.S.C. §§ 1-2; Southland Corp. v. Keating
(1984) 465 U.S. 1, 12.) The FAA preempts conflicting state law. (Preston v.
Ferrer (2008) 552 U.S. 346, 353.) The party that contends the FAA applies
bears the burden to demonstrate that the arbitration agreement is in a
“‘contract evidencing a transaction involving commerce’ . . . .” (Woolls v.
Super. Ct. (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 197, 211.) 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2,
“[o]n petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of
a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses
to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that: (a) The right to
compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or (b)¿Grounds exist for
the revocation of the agreement.”¿ 
 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
On May 10, 2018,
Plaintiff and Defendant Stadco LLC entered into the “Rams Stadium License
Agreement (the Agreement).” The Agreement stated in pertinent part 
 
“11) CHOICE OF LAW; MANDATORY AND BINDING
ARBITRATION; NO CLASS OR REPRESENTATIVE ACTIONS OR ARBITRATIONS; LIMITATION ON
TIME TO MAKE CLAIMS.
PLEASE READ THIS PROVISION CAREFULLY. THIS LICENSE
AGREEMENT PROVIDES THAT ALL DISPUTES BETWEEN THE PARTIES WILL BE RESOLVED BY
BINDING ARBITRATION. LICENSEE IS THUS GIVING UP LICENSEE’S RIGHTS TO GO TO
COURT TO ASSERT OR DEFEND ITS RIGHTS UNDER THIS LICENSE AGREEMENT (EXCEPT FOR
MATTERS THAT MAY BE TAKEN TO SMALL CLAIMS COURT). THE PARTIES’ RIGHTS WILL BE
DETERMINED BY A NEUTRAL ARBITRATOR AND NOT A JUDGE OR JURY. THE PARTIES ARE
ENTITLED TO A FAIR HEARING, BUT THE ARBITRATION PROCEDURES ARE SIMPLER AND MORE
LIMITED THAN RULES APPLICABLE IN COURT. THE ARBITRATOR’S DECISIONS ARE AS
ENFORCEABLE AS ANY COURT ORDER AND ARE SUBJECT TO VERY LIMITED REVIEW BY A
COURT.
a) Choice of Law. THIS LICENSE AGREEMENT WILL BE
CONSTRUED AND ENFORCED IN ACCORDANCE WITH ALL APPLICABLE FEDERAL LAWS AND THE
LAWS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA, EXCLUDING ITS CONFLICT OF LAW RULES. The
parties waive any claims that may arise under the laws of other states,
countries, territories, or jurisdictions.
b) Mandatory and Binding Arbitration. With respect
to any and all disputes arising out of or relating to this License Agreement,
no matter on what theory, including without limitation, contract, tort,
statutory or regulatory, or common law, and including regarding the
applicability or validity of this arbitration provision (collectively,
“Claims”), the parties agree to negotiate in good faith to achieve a mutually
satisfactory resolution. If the parties do not resolve any dispute by informal
negotiation, any other effort to resolve the dispute will be conducted
exclusively by binding arbitration as described in this Section 11; provided,
however, that the parties have the right to litigate any Claim in small claims
court, if all the requirements of the small claims court, including any
limitations on jurisdiction and the amount at issue in the Claim, are
satisfied. Licensee agrees to bring a Claim in small claims court only in
Licensee’s county of residence or the County of Los Angeles, California. LICENSEE
ACKNOWLEDGES THAT LICENSEE IS GIVING UP THE RIGHT TO LITIGATE (OR PARTICIPATE
IN AS A PARTY OR CLASS MEMBER) ALL DISPUTES IN COURT BEFORE A JUDGE OR JURY,
except as described in the foregoing sentence for Claims that may be litigated
in small claims court. Instead, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable
law, all Claims will be resolved before a neutral arbitrator, whose decision
will be final except for a limited right of appeal under the Federal
Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C. sections 1-9 (or any successor thereto). Any court
with jurisdiction over the parties may enforce the arbitrator's award.
Except for Claims eligible to be heard in small
claims court as described above, all Claims that cannot be settled through
informal negotiation will be adjudicated exclusively through confidential
binding arbitration in accordance with the then current Consumer Arbitration
Rules of the American Arbitration Association (the “AAA”), or, in the event the
AAA declines or is unable to administer the arbitration, by a nationally
recognized arbitration forum reasonably selected by Fanfaire. AAA rules are
available from the AAA, which can be contacted by mail at 725 South Figueroa,
Suite 400, Los Angeles, California 90017, by telephone at (800) 778-7879, or
through its website at www.adr.org. The arbitrator’s award shall be binding and
may be entered as a judgment in a court of competent jurisdiction. Licensee
agrees that the Stadium Company, Fanfaire or the Team Party may seek any
interim or preliminary relief from a court of competent jurisdiction in Los
Angeles County, California necessary to protect its rights or property pending
the completion of arbitration." (Motion to Compel Arbitration “MTC” p
3-4.)
 
1.    
Existence of Valid Arbitration Agreement and
Claims Covered by Arbitration Clause¿ 
 
“[T]he petitioner
bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by
the preponderance of the evidence . . . .” (Giuliano v. Inland Empire
Personnel, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.) “In determining whether
an arbitration agreement applies to a specific dispute, the court may examine
only the agreement itself and the complaint filed by the party refusing
arbitration [citation]. The court should attempt to give effect to the parties’
intentions, in light of the usual and ordinary meaning of the contractual
language and the circumstances under which the agreement was made.” (Weeks
v. Crow (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 353.) “To determine whether a
contractual arbitration clause requires arbitration of a particular
controversy, the controversy is first identified, and the issue is whether that
controversy is within the scope of the contractual arbitration clause.” (Titolo
v. Cano (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 310, 316.) “Doubts as to whether an
arbitration clause applies to a particular dispute are to be resolved in favor
of sending the parties to arbitration. The court should order them to arbitrate
unless it is clear that the arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to cover
the dispute.” (California Correctional Peace Officers Ass’n v. State
(2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 198, 205.) 
 
[A] party opposing
the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any
fact necessary to its defense. [Citation.] In these summary proceedings, the
trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations,
and other documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the
court’s discretion, to reach a final determination. (Giuliano, supra,
149 Cal.App.4th at p. 1284.) 
 
Defendants argue
that general contract principles apply to determine whether an arbitration
agreement exists, mutual assent to a contract can be expressed through conduct,
even if the party did not read the specific terms, including the arbitration
clause. They contend that Plaintiff agreed to the terms of the "Los
Angeles Rams Stadium Seat License Agreement," which included an
arbitration clause, by electronically signing and initialing the contract
through DocuSign. (Forrester Decl. ¶ 6.)
 
Defendants argue
that they have satisfied the legal requirement to demonstrate the existence of
the arbitration agreement by attaching the License Agreement to their petition
and quoting the arbitration clause. (Espejo v. Southern California
Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1058, 1060.)
 
In opposition,
Plaintiff argues that their claims for negligence and premises liability, which
arise from the condition of the stadium's concession area, are not subject to
arbitration under the "Stadium Seat License Agreement" because these
claims do not stem from the contract. (Khalatian v. Prime Time Shuttle, Inc.
(2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 651, 660.) Defendants rely on an arbitration clause
within the License Agreement, which broadly covers disputes "arising out
of or relating to" the Agreement. However, Plaintiff contends that this
provision only applies to disputes related to the limited rights granted by the
License Agreement, primarily concerning the right to purchase tickets.
 
Plaintiff
emphasizes that the Agreement does not provide general admission to the stadium
and that their claims, which involve personal injury, are unrelated to any
specific rights or obligations created by the Agreement. Instead, Plaintiff's
presence at the stadium, like that of any other ticket holder, was based on the
purchase of event tickets, not the Agreement. 
Therefore, Plaintiff’s claims
are based on general duties owed by Defendants to all stadium attendees under
California Civil Code section 1714, not duties arising from the Agreement.
 
Plaintiff points
out that the Agreement was merely an initial step toward purchasing season
tickets, and the Agreement is not mentioned in their complaint. Consequently,
the claims do not have their "roots" in the contractual relationship
created by the Agreement. The cases cited by Defendants, which apply
arbitration clauses to tort claims, do not apply here because the claims are
independent of the Agreement.
 
Additionally,
Plaintiff argues that even broad arbitration clauses must be limited to
disputes arising from the contract. (Elijahjuan v. Superior Court (2012)
210 Cal.App.4th 15, 23–24; Hoover v. American Income Life Ins. Co. (2012)
206 Cal.App.4th 1193. 1208.) Since Plaintiff’s claims are based on general
premises liability duties owed to all attendees, not on the Agreement,
arbitration should not be compelled. Thus, Plaintiff argues that Defendants’
motion to compel arbitration should be denied.
 
In reply, Defendants
argue that Plaintiff's personal injury claims are directly connected to the
Agreement. They assert that the Agreement granted Plaintiff the right to
purchase season tickets for games at SoFi Stadium, which opened in 2020 and
where the alleged injury occurred on September 17, 2023. Defendants contend
that because Plaintiff's injury occurred at SoFi Stadium while attending a game
as a season ticket holder, the claims are "rooted in the relationship
between the parties created by the contract." Therefore, Plaintiff's
claims are linked to the Agreement, as it enabled the purchase of the season
tickets that allowed Plaintiff to attend the game at which the injury occurred.
 
Broad arbitration
agreements may encompass torts and contractual liabilities “as long as they have
their roots in the relationship between the parties which was created by the
contract.” (Berman v. Dean Witter & Co., Inc. (1975) 44 Cal.App.3d
999, 1003.) Here, the Agreement Plaintiff signed was a required step to
purchase season tickets for the Los Angeles Rams, who play their home games at
Sofi Stadium. (Reply, p. 3-4.) The alleged injury occurred at Sofi Stadium on
September 17, 2023, the same date the Rams were playing the 49ers at Sofi
Stadium. Therefore, because the Agreement was a requirement to purchase tickets
for the event at which the alleged injury occurred, the Court finds that the
Plaintiff’s dispute does arise out of the Agreement. Plaintiff relies on Elijahjuan
to argue that Plaintiff’s claims do not arise out of the Agreement.
However, Elijahjuan is distinguishable. In Elijahjuan, the Court
found that an employee’s claims regarding misclassification of employees did
not arise for the contract containing the arbitration agreement because “No
allegation in the FAC is based on rights afforded petitioners under the terms
of the Agreements.” (Elijahjuan,210 Cal.App.4th 15, 21.)  Here, however, the Agreement was required to
purchase Rams season tickets, which granted Plaintiff the right to enter the
stadium on game day.” Since the injury occurred on gameday, claims involving
the injury arise from the right of entry granted by the Agreement.
 
            Non-Signatory Parties
 
      Defendants claim that Plaintiff’s claims
against other Defendants must also go to arbitration because they are
"intimately founded in and intertwined with" the License Agreement's
terms. (Garcia v. Pexco, LLC (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 782, 786.) Under the
doctrine of equitable estoppel, a non-signatory to the arbitration agreement
can compel arbitration when the claims against them are deeply connected to the
contractual obligations. This doctrine applies to Plaintiff’s claims against
other Defendants since these claims arise from the same contractual
relationship under which Plaintiff purchased season tickets. (Garcia, 11
Cal.App.5th at 786) Thus, Defendants maintain that Plaintiff is bound by the
arbitration clause, and all claims, including those against non-signatory
Defendants, should be referred to arbitration.
 
Plaintiff argues
that the seat license agreement, which contains the arbitration clause, was
entered into with Defendant Stadco LA, LLC, along with LA Rams Tenant, LLC, and
Fanfaire, Inc., but these entities are not defendants in this action. The named
defendants in the case—Stadco LA Manager, LLC, Hollywood Park Management
Company, LLC, Hollywood Park Management Company II, LLC, and Hollywood Park
Land Company, LLC—were not parties to the seat license agreement and therefore
cannot compel arbitration.
 
Defendants claim
that they can still enforce arbitration because Plaintiff’s claims are
“intimately founded in and intertwined” with the License Agreement. However,
Plaintiff contends this argument lacks any evidence and that, generally, non-signatories
to an arbitration agreement cannot enforce it unless they meet specific
exceptions. The burden to demonstrate such an exception falls on the non-signatory,
which Defendants have not done here.
 
Plaintiff argues
that non-signatories can only enforce arbitration if the plaintiff’s claims are
dependent on or bound up with the contractual obligations of the agreement
containing the arbitration clause. (Goldman v. KPMG, LLP 173 Cal.App.4th
209.) 
 
“The sine qua
non for allowing a non-signatory to enforce an arbitration clause based on
equitable estoppel is that the claims the plaintiff asserts against the non-signatory
are dependent on or inextricably bound up with the contractual obligations of
the agreement containing the arbitration clause.” (Goldman, 173
Cal.App.4th 209, 213-214.) Furthermore, the fact that the misconduct could not
have happened without the signing of the agreement does not prove that the
claims are inextricably bound. (See, Goldman, 173 Cal.App.4th 209, 232-233.)
Here, Plaintiff argues that the inextricably bound because “Any claims he has
against the other Defendants are necessarily predicated on his contractual
season ticket holder agreement with StadCo.” (MTC p. 7.) While it is true that
the Agreement was required for the purchasing of tickets, which allowed
Plaintiff to enter the stadium where he was injured, the fact that the incident
could not have occurred without the signing of the agreement does not prove
that the claims are inextricably bound. (See, Goldman, 173 Cal.App.4th
209, 232-233.) Additionally, like in Goldman, Plaintiff does not
reference the Agreement in their complaint. (Id. at p. 218.) Therefore,
the Court finds that Plaintiff is not compelled to arbitrate its claims with
non-signatory Defendants based on the Agreement.
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 1281.2, subdivision (c) 
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 1281.2, subdivision (c) provides that arbitration will
be ordered when there is an agreement to arbitrate unless “[a] party to the
arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action or special
proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of
related transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a
common issue of law or fact.” 
 
Plaintiff argues
that under section 1281.2(c), even if the arbitration clause is broad enough to
cover Plaintiff's claims against Stadco LA, LLC, arbitration cannot be
compelled for claims against remaining non-signatory defendants. Therefore, the
Court should deny arbitration altogether. (See Birl v. Heritage Care, LLC (2009)
172 Cal.App.4th 1313, 1319-1323.) Plaintiff argues that all three prongs of Code
of Civil Procedure section 1281.2, subdivision (c) have been met. First,
Plaintiff is a party to both the arbitration agreement and a pending court
action involving third parties, namely the non-signatory defendants, who are
not bound by or entitled to enforce the arbitration agreement. Second,
Plaintiff’s claims against all defendants, including Stadco LA, LLC, arise from
the same injuries caused by the same acts of negligence, making them part of
the same transaction or series of related transactions. Third, if Plaintiff’s
claims against Stadco LA, LLC are sent to arbitration while the claims against
other defendants proceed in court, there is a significant possibility of
conflicting rulings on common issues of law or fact. For these reasons,
Plaintiff contends that the Court should exercise its discretion to deny arbitration
altogether.
 
Defendant does not
address this issue in their reply.
 
In Birl, the
Court of Appeals found that the trial court did not abuse its discretion by
denying a motion to compel under Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2,
subdivision (c) regarding a case brought against multiple hospitals and
physicians regarding the death of the Plaintiff's family member. (Birl, 172
Cal.App.4th 1313, 1322.)
 
Here, like in Birl,
all three prongs of Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2, subdivision
(c) have been met. (See, Birl, 172 Cal.App.4th 1313, 1322.) First, if
the arbitration agreement were to be granted as to only Stadco, Plaintiff would
be a party to the arbitration with Stadco and would also be a party to the
ongoing court action against the non-signatory defendants. Second, both the
arbitration and the civil suit would revolve around Plaintiff's alleged injury,
which occurred on September 17, 2023. 
Last, since the two actions will be based on identical facts, it is
likely that conflicting rulings of fact or law will be issued.  
 
Therefore, the
Court uses the discretion granted to it under Code of Civil Procedure section
1281.2, subdivision (c) to Deny the Motion to Compel Arbitration in its
entirety.
 
The Court’s Power
to Determine Arbitrability
 
            Defendants argue that the dispute should be resolved
through arbitration, as any threshold questions regarding arbitrability must be
decided by the arbitrator. They assert that Plaintiff’s claims fall within the
broad scope of the Arbitration Agreement, which applies to "any and all
disputes arising out of or relating to this License Agreement." The claims
in the complaint, involving injuries due to a dangerous condition at SoFi
Stadium, are directly covered by the License Agreement and, therefore, fall within
the arbitration clause.
            
            However, “The question of whether non-signatory is a
party to an arbitration agreement is one for the trial court in the first
instance.” (American Builder's Assn. v. Au-Yang (1990) 226 Cal.App.3d
170, 179.) Here, the Courts decision to deny the instant motion does not
revolve around the arbitration agreement involving Plaintiff and Stadco, which
the court found to be valid. Instead, the decision to deny the instant motion
revolves around the non-signatories and Code of Civil Procedure section
1281.2, subdivision (c). Therefore, Defendants arguments regarding arbitrability
are immaterial. 
 
The Court denies
Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration 
 
 
 