 Case Number:  20STCV48102    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  29 TENTATIVE
 
The motion to
substitute Plaintiff’s successor in interest is CONTINUED. 
 
Background
 
On December 16, 2020, Plaintiff Elora
Bridges (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Howard Altman as an
individual and Trustee of the Maximum Respect Trust, and Does 1-50,
(“collectively Defendants”), alleging causes of action for general negligence
and premises liability. 
 
On October 2, 2023, Plaintiff filed the
instant motion to substitute Kaseem Ali, Michael Fennel, Kim Moore, and Martin
Moore (collectively “Successors”) as successors in interest to deceased
Plaintiff. No opposition has been filed. 
 
Legal
Standard
 
“On motion after the death of a person who commenced an action or
proceeding, the court shall allow a pending action or proceeding that does not
abate to be continued by the decedent’s personal representative or, if none, by
the decedent’s successor in interest.” 
(Code Civ. Proc. §¿377.31.) 
 
Code of Civil Procedure § 377.32 provides the following: 
(a)  The person who
seeks to commence an action or proceeding or to continue a pending action or
proceeding as the decedent’s successor in interest under this article, shall
execute and file an affidavit or a declaration under penalty of perjury under
the laws of this state stating all of the following:
(1)  The decedent’s
name. 
(2)  The date and
place of the decedent’s death. 
(3)  “No proceeding is
now pending in California for administration of the decedent’s estate.” 
(4)  If the decedent’s
estate was administered, a copy of the final order showing the distribution of
the decedent’s cause of action to the successor in interest. 
(5)  Either of the
following, as appropriate, with facts in support thereof: 
(A) “The affiant or
declarant is the decedent’s successor in interest (as defined in Section 377.11
of the California Code of Civil Procedure) and succeeds to the decedent’s
interest in the action or proceeding.” 
(B) “The affiant or
declarant is authorized to act on behalf of the decedent’s successor in
interest (as defined in Section 377.11 of the California Code of Civil
Procedure) with respect to the decedent’s interest in the action or
proceeding.” 
(6)  “No other person
has a superior right to commence the action or proceeding or to be substituted
for the decedent in the pending action or proceeding.” 
(7)  “The affiant or
declarant affirms or declares under penalty of perjury under the laws of the
State of California that the foregoing is true and correct.” 
(b)  Where more than
one person executes the affidavit or declaration under this section, the
statements required by subdivision (a) shall be modified as appropriate to
reflect that fact. 
(c)  
A certified copy of the decedent’s death
certificate shall be attached to the affidavit or declaration. 
 
Discussion
 
The Court
finds that the Successors’ applications do not comply with all the requirements
of Code section 377.32, subdivision (a). Each Successor’s declaration fails to
state that “No proceeding is now pending in California for administration of
the decedent’s estate.” In addition, Successors fail to state in each of their
declarations that besides the siblings, “No other person has a superior right
to commence the action or proceeding or to be substituted for the decedent in
the pending action or proceeding.” Therefore, the motion cannot be granted at this time.
 
The Court
will CONTINUE the hearing on the motion to give moving parties the opportunity to cure these
defects and to submit declarations that comply with all substantive and
procedural requirements.
 
Conclusion
 
The motion to
substitute Plaintiff’s successor in interest is CONTINUED.
 
Moving
parties may file and serve new declarations in support of their motion at least
16 court days in advance of the hearing.
 
Moving parties
are ordered to give notice.