 Case Number:  21STCV38979    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  29 TENTATIVE
 
Defendant’s motion to compel the deposition of Plaintiff
is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
 
Both parties’
requests for sanctions are DENIED.

 
Background 
 
This action arises from a motor vehicle collision that
occurred on November 6, 2019, eastbound on Wilshire Blvd., Beverly Hills,
California. Plaintiff Daniela Cohen (“Plaintiff”) filed this complaint against
Defendants Richard Jordan Frye (“Defendant”) and Does 1-10 on October 21, 2021,
alleging a cause of action for negligence.
 
On October 10, 2023, Defendant filed the motion to compel
deposition of Plaintiff. Defendant also seeks sanctions. On October 27, 2023,
Plaintiff filed an opposition and her own request for sanctions. On November 2,
2023, Defendant filed a reply and additional evidence in support of the motion.  On November 3, Plaintiff filed objections to Defendant’s
evidence. 
 
On November 8, 2023, in connection with a separate
motion, the Court granted Defendant’s motion to continue trial. 
 
Legal
Standard 
 
“Any party may
obtain discovery … by taking in California the oral deposition of any person,
including any party to the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) 
Code of Civil Procedure sections 2025.210 through 2025.280 provide the
requirements for (among other things) what must be included in a deposition
notice, when and where depositions may be taken, and how and when the notice
must be served.  
“The service of a
deposition notice … is effective to require any deponent who is a party to the
action … to attend and to testify, as well as to produce any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing for inspection and
copying.”  (Id., § 2025.280, subd.
(a).)
 
Section 2025.410,
subdivision (a), requires any party to serve a written objection at least three
days before the deposition if the party contends that a deposition notice does
not comply with the provisions of sections 2025.210 through 2025.280.
“If, after
service of a deposition notice, a party to the action …, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce
for¿inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move
for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”  (Id., §
2025.450, subd. (a).)  Any such motion to compel must show good
cause for the production of documents and, when a deponent has failed to
appear, the motion must be accompanied “by a declaration stating that the
petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”  (Id., § 2025.450, subd. (b).)  “Implicit in the requirement that counsel contact
the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance is a requirement that counsel
listen to the reasons offered and make a good faith attempt to resolve the
issue,” including by rescheduling. (Leko v. Cornerstone Bldg. Inspection
Serv. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1109, 1124. See
also L.A.S.C.L.R. 3.26, Appendix 3.A(e) (reasonable consideration should be
given to accommodating schedules in setting depositions).)
When a motion to
compel is granted, “the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the
deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is
affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.”  (Id., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).) 
In Chapter 7 of the Civil
Discovery Act, section 2023.010, subdivision (d), defines “[m]isuses of the
discovery process” to include “[f]ailing to respond to or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery.”  Where a
party or attorney has engaged in misuse of the discovery process, the court may
impose a monetary sanction in the amount of “the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.”  (Id., § 2023.030, subd. (a).) 
Evidentiary
Objections
Plaintiff’s objections to Exhibits 1a,
1b, 1c, and 1d are SUSTAINED.  Defendant
has not properly authenticated these exhibits.
Plaintiff’s other objections are
OVERRULED.
Discussion 
 
Defendant has
repeatedly noticed Plaintiff’s deposition, but Plaintiff has objected each time;
she has not appeared and provided testimony at deposition.  (Keshishian Decl., ¶¶ 2-31, Exhs. A, D, E, G,
M, O.) Most recently, Defendant noticed Plaintiff’s deposition for October 4,
but Plaintiff did not appear.  (Id.,
¶¶ 27-31.)  
 
Defendant, of
course, has the right to take Plaintiff’s deposition.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.)  But to obtain a court order for the
deposition, Defendant must
comply with the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450.  Among the requirements is that a motion to
compel a deposition must be accompanied “by a declaration stating that the petitioner has
contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”  (Id., § 2025.450, subd.
(b).)  
 
Defendant did not
submit such a declaration with his moving papers.  Although Defendant submitted various deposition
notices and communications between counsel, none related to contact with
Plaintiff’s counsel regarding the nonappearance on October 4.
 
Accordingly, the
motion is DENIED.  The denial is based on
a procedural defect and is without prejudice to Defendant either filing a new
motion to compel that meets all of the requirements of section 2025.450 and/or
renoticing Plaintiff’s deposition.
 
Both parties’
requests for sanctions are DENIED.  Defendant’s
request is denied because he was not successful in bringing this motion to
compel.  Plaintiff’s request is denied
because the Court finds that, under all of the circumstances, including repeated
efforts to schedule the deposition prior to the most recently served deposition
notice, Defendant’s conduct was substantially justified, and that it would be
unjust to impose sanctions against Defendant when it is Plaintiff who has not
appeared for deposition despite repeated notices.
 
Conclusion 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to compel the deposition
of Plaintiff is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
 
Both parties’
requests for sanctions are DENIED.

 
Moving party to
give notice.
 
 