 Case Number:  23STCV21776    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




reza safaie

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
nicholas fuentes

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV21776




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


November
   5, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
plaintiffs and cross-defendants’ special
  motion to strike portions of cross-complaint
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:              Plaintiffs and cross-defendants
Reza Safaie and Aaron Trucking, Inc. 
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:    Defendants and cross-complainants Nicholas
Fuentes and Old Earl Scheib Paint and Body
Special Motion to Strike Portions of Cross-Complaint
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
The court rules on plaintiffs
and cross-defendants Reza Safaie and Aaron Trucking, Inc.’s evidentiary
objections, filed on October 28, 2024, as follows:
Objections Nos. 1-3 are sustained. 
DISCUSSION
Plaintiffs and cross-defendants Reza Safaie and Aaron Trucking, Inc.
(“Cross-Defendants”) have filed a special motion to strike the fourth cause of
action for defamation per se alleged by defendants and cross-complainants
Nicholas Fuentes and Old Earl Scheib Paint and Body (“Cross-Complainants”) in
their Cross-Complaint pursuant to Code Civil Procedure section 425.16, also
known as the anti-SLAPP (“strategic lawsuit against public participation”)
statute. 
¿“The anti-SLAPP procedures are designed to shield a defendant’s
constitutionally protected conduct from the undue burden of frivolous
litigation.”¿ (Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 393.)¿ “The
anti-SLAPP statute does not insulate defendants from any liability for claims
arising from the protected rights of petition or speech.¿ It only provides a
procedure for weeding out, at an early stage, meritless claims arising from
protected activity.”¿ (Id. at p. 384.)¿¿“Resolution of an anti-SLAPP
motion involves two steps.¿ First, the defendant must establish that the
challenged claim arises from activity protected by section 425.16.¿ If the
defendant makes the required showing, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to
demonstrate the merit of the claim by establishing a probability of success.”¿
(Ibid. [citation omitted].)¿ The California Supreme Court has “described
this second step as a ‘summary-judgment-like procedure.’¿ The court does not
weigh evidence or resolve conflicting factual claims.¿ Its inquiry is limited
to whether the plaintiff has stated a legally sufficient claim and made a prima
facie factual showing sufficient to sustain a favorable judgment.¿ It accepts
the plaintiff’s evidence as true, and evaluates the defendant’s showing only to
determine if it defeats the plaintiff’s claim as a matter of law.¿ ‘[C]laims
with the requisite minimal merit may proceed.’”¿ (Id. at pp. 384-385
[citations omitted].)¿ 
1.     Public
Interest Exemption (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.17)
As a threshold matter, the court notes that, in their opposition
papers, Cross-Complainants assert that the public interest exemption applies,
which the court must first consider before proceeding to the two-step analysis
under section 425.16.  (Opp., pp.
5:1-6:4; Takhar v. People ex rel. Feather River Air Quality Management Dist.
(2018) 27 Cal.App.5th 15, 24 [“‘Before engaging in this two-step analysis,
a court must consider any claims by the plaintiff that a statutory exemption
contained in section 425.17 applies’”] [internal citation omitted].) 
“The public interest exemption to the anti-SLAPP statute is set forth
in section 425.17, subdivision (b).”  (Takhar,
supra, 27 Cal.App.5th at p. 25.) 
Pursuant to that exemption, “[s]ection 425.16 does not apply to any
action brought solely in the public interest or on behalf of the general public
if all of the following conditions exist: [¶] (1) The plaintiff does not seek
any relief greater than or different from the relief sought for the general
public or a class of which the plaintiff is a member.  A claim for attorney’s fees, costs, or
penalties does not constitute greater or different relief for purposes of this
subdivision.  [¶]  (2) The action, if successful, would enforce an
important right affecting the public interest, and would confer a significant
benefit ,whether pecuniary or nonpecuniary, on the general public or a large
class of persons.  [¶]  (3) Private enforcement is necessary and
places a disproportionate financial burden on the plaintiff in relation to the
plaintiff’s stake in the matter.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 425.17, subd. (b).) 
The court finds that Cross-Complainants have not met their burden to
establish that the public interest exemption applies.  (Takhar, supra, 27 Cal.App.5th
at p. 24 [“‘A plaintiff has the burden to establish the applicability of th[e]
[public interest] exemption’”] [internal citation omitted]; Code Civ. Proc., §
425.17, subd. (b).)  
Cross-Complainants have brought this cause of action not on behalf of
the general public or in the public interest, but on behalf of themselves, and
to that end, seek from Cross-Defendants (1) damages for their alleged business
losses, and (2) punitive damages. 
(Cross-Compl., ¶ 41.)  They have
not sought relief on behalf of the general public, or a class of which
Cross-Complainants are members.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 425.17, subd. (b)(1).) 
Cross-Complainants, although arguing that they “are attempting to curb
the abuses created by Cross-Defendants from filing false reports to law
enforcement and other government authorities[,]” have not presented adequate
authority, argument, or evidence to establish that their cause of action for
defamation is “brought solely on the public interest or on behalf of the
general public” as required.  (Opp., p.
5:25-27; (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.17, subd. (b).) 
The court therefore finds that the public interest exemption does not
apply.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.17, subd.
(b); Klem v. Access Ins. Co. (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 595, 611 [“The
exception ‘applies only when the entire action is brought in the public
interest’”]; Takhar, supra, 27 Cal.App.5th at p. 25 [“‘If
individualized relief is sought, a plaintiff [or cross-complainant] must
satisfy the requirements of the anti-SLAPP statute in order for the action to
proceed’”] [internal citation omitted].) 
2.     First
Prong: Protected Activity
Courts analyze special motions to strike under a two-step approach.¿
“Initially, the moving defendant bears the burden of establishing that the
challenged allegations or claims ‘aris[e] from’ protected activity in which the
defendant has engaged.”¿ (Park v. Board of Trustees of California State
University (2017) 2 Cal.5th 1057, 1061.)¿ “[T]he statutory phrase ‘cause of
action…arising from’ means simply that the defendant’s act underlying the
plaintiff’s cause of action must itself have been an act in furtherance
of the right of petition or free speech.¿ [Citation.]¿ In the anti-SLAPP
context, the critical point is whether the plaintiff’s cause of action itself
was based on an act in furtherance of the defendant’s right of petition
or free speech.”¿ (City of Cotati v. Cashman (2002) 29 Cal.4th 69, 78.)¿
The moving defendant will meet this burden by demonstrating that the
plaintiff’s claim fits one of the categories outlined in Code of Civil
Procedure section 425.16, subdivision (e).¿ (Ibid.)¿¿ 
The protected acts in furtherance of a defendant’s right of petition
or free speech include:¿ 

Any written or oral statement
     or writing made before a legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding,
     or any other official proceeding authorized by law; or¿ 


Any written or oral statement
     made in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a
     legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding
     authorized by law; or¿ 


Any written or oral statement
     or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum in
     connection with an issue of public interest; or¿¿ 


Any other conduct in
     furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or
     free speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of public
     interest.¿¿ 

(Code
Civ. Proc. § 425.16, subd. (e).)¿¿ 
The court finds that Cross-Defendants have met their burden to show
that the fourth cause of action for defamation arises from protected
activity.  (Park, supra, 2
Cal.5th at p. 1061 [moving defendant or cross-defendant bears the first burden
of showing that the claims arise from protected activity in which the defendant
has engaged].) 
Cross-Complainants have based their fourth cause of action for
defamation on the following three claims alleged in the Cross-Complaint: (1) “defamation
[committed by Cross-Defendants] ensued by including in the Complaint how
Cross-Complainants are liars, thieves, frauds, and scammers, despite the known
fact that Cross-Defendants were negligent in retrieving their vehicle which
caused incurring storage costs and fees” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 38 (second)[1]);
   (2) Cross-Defendants “made these
statements to the Los Angeles County District Attorney’s Office and the
Department of Motor Vehicles Investigator which resulted in Cross-Complainant’s
place of business to be swarmed with police vehicles, which caused Cross-Complainant’s
customers to be increasingly concerned” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 39); and (3)
“Cross-Defendants additionally blatantly inferred moral turpitude on
Cross-Complainants by constantly referring in all court filings referencing
case XNWLA099026-01” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 40).  The court finds that all of the claims alleged
arise from protected activity. 
First, the court finds that the claims that are based on
Cross-Defendants’ statements about Cross-Complainants, made in
Cross-Defendants’ court filings (Cross-Compl., ¶¶ 38 (second), 40), arise from Cross-Defendants’
statements and writings made before a judicial proceeding.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (e)(1); Navellier
v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 90 [“A claim for relief filed in federal
district court [or other court] indisputably is a statement or writing made
before a . . . judicial proceeding”].) 
Second, the court finds that the claim that is based on
Cross-Defendants’ statements about Cross-Complainants made to the Los Angeles
County District Attorney’s Office and the Department of Motor Vehicles
Investigator (Compl., ¶ 39) arises from Cross-Defendants’ protected activity in
making statements made before an official proceeding since (1)
Cross-Complainants have alleged that Cross-Defendants reported to government
entities (i.e., the Los Angeles County District Attorney’s Office and the
Department of Motor Vehicles) that Cross-Complainants had stolen the subject
vehicle (Cross-Compl., ¶¶ 18, 39), and (2) those allegations show that the
purpose of the statements was to solicit investigations by the District
Attorney’s Office and the Department of Motor Vehicles’ investigator, which
constitutes protected activity.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (e)(1); ComputerXpress, Inc. v. Jackson (2001)
93 Cal.App.4th 993, 1009 [finding that the filing of a complaint with the Securities
and Exchange Commission was a statement before an official proceeding, and
explaining that “[i]n the analogous context of the privilege under Civil Code
section 47 for a statement in an official proceeding, the California Supreme
Court has observed that the term ‘official proceeding’ has been interpreted
broadly to protect communications to or from governmental officials which may
precede the initiation of formal proceedings.’ 
[Citation.]  Thus, communications
to an official administrative agency . . . designed to promote action by that
agency is as much a part of the official proceeding as a communication made
after the proceedings had commenced”] [internal quotation marks, citations, and
emphasis omitted].) 
The court notes that Cross-Complainants have argued, in their
opposition papers, that the alleged conduct is not subject to the anti-SLAPP
statute because (1) the filing of a false report to law enforcement officials
is not protected, and (2) Cross-Defendants made false statements to law
enforcement and other government authorities. 
(Opp., p. 6:23-26; Lefebvre v. Lefebvre (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th
696, 703 [“Neither the federal nor the state constitutional right of
petition or free speech encompasses a right to file a false crime report”]
[emphasis in original].)  However, the
court finds that Cross-Complainants have not shown that Cross-Defendants’
reports to the Los Angeles County District Attorney’s Office and the Department
of Motor Vehicles were false and therefore fall outside of the scope of the
anti-SLAPP statute.[2]  
 
 
3.     Second
Prong: Probability of Prevailing
The second prong places the burden on the plaintiff to establish that
there is a probability the plaintiff will prevail on the claim.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b).)  “To meet this burden under the second
prong of the statute, ‘the plaintiff “must demonstrate that the complaint is
both legally sufficient and supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of
facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by the
plaintiff is credited.” 
[Citations.]’”  (Maleti v.
Wickers (2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 181, 200.) 
“The plaintiff must show that its claim has ‘at least “minimal merit.”
’”  (Ibid.)  “The second step burden of establishing a
probability of prevailing is not high. 
[Citation.]  It consists of a
summary-judgment-like procedure.”  (Billauer
v. Escobar-Eck (2023) 88 Cal.App.5th 953, 964.) 
First, the court notes that Cross-Defendants have argued, in their
moving papers, that the fourth cause of action is barred by the litigation
privilege.  As set forth above,
ordinarily, it is the burden on the plaintiff or cross-complainant on the
second prong to establish the probability of prevailing on the merits.  (Billauer, supra, 88
Cal.App.5th at p. 964.)  However, “[d]uring
the second prong of a court’s anti-SLAPP analysis, a defendant bears the burden
of proving a privilege’s applicability.” 
(Neurelis, Inc. v. Aquestive Therapeutics, Inc. (2021) 71
Cal.App.5th 769, 794; Billauer, supra, 88 Cal.App.5th at p. 965 [addressing
first the issue of whether the subject communications were absolutely
privileged under Civil Code section 47, subdivision (b).)  The court finds that Cross-Defendants have not
met that burden. 
“Civil Code section 47, subdivision (b) renders absolutely privileged
communications made as part of a ‘judicial or quasi-judicial proceeding.’  [Citations.] 
‘The usual formulation is that the privilege applies to any
communication (1) made in judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings; (2) by
litigants or other participants authorized by law; (3) to achieve the objects
of the litigation; and (4) that have some connection or logical relation to the
action.’”  (Neurelis, Inc., supra,
71 Cal.App.5th at p. 794.)  
While the court acknowledges that Cross-Defendants have cited
authority discussing the litigation privilege, Cross-Defendants did not present
adequate argument and analysis establishing that the litigation privilege applies
to bar Cross-Complainants’ claims for defamation in this action.  (Neurelis, Inc., supra, 71
Cal.App.5th at p. 794.)  For example,
Cross-Defendants did not present sufficient argument establishing that each
element of the privilege has been met and applies to each of the three claims
alleged in support of this cause of action, including argument and authority
establishing that (1) the statements made to the District Attorney’s Office and
Department of Motor Vehicles constitutes a communication made in a judicial or
quasi-judicial proceeding, and (2) the communications made to those entities
and in the Complaint were made to achieve the objects of the litigation.[3]  (Neurelis, Inc., supra, 71
Cal.App.5th at p. 794 [noting that the defendant “insist[ed] it has done enough
to prove the applicability of the privilege simply by pointing to the citizen
privilege.  It has not”].)  Cross-Defendants similarly did not address
each element of the litigation privilege as applied to the claims relating to
the allegations made in their Complaint. 
Second, the court finds that Cross-Complainants have not met their
burden to produce evidence, which the court must accept as true, to make a
prima facie showing that their cause of action for defamation has minimal
merit.  (Billauer, supra,
88 Cal.App.5th at pp. 964 [plaintiff or cross-complainant has the burden to
establish minimal merit], 966 [proceeding to consider whether the plaintiff
satisfied her burden of showing a probability of success on the merits after
concluding that the litigation privilege does not apply].) 
“Libel per se is when the communication is defamatory without the need
for explanatory matter.”  (Billauer,
supra, 88 Cal.App.5th at p. 966; Civ. Code, § 45a.)  The elements of defamation are “(a) a
publication that is (b) false, (c) defamatory, and (d) unprivileged, and that
(e) has a natural tendency to injure or that causes special damage.”  (Sanchez v. Bezos (2022) 80
Cal.App.5th 750, 763 [internal quotation marks and citations omitted].) 
The court finds that Cross-Complainants have not presented adequate
argument or evidence establishing that they can make a prima facie showing of the
element of falsity.  (Sanchez, supra,
80 Cal.App.5th at p. 763.)  As set forth
above, Cross-Complainants have based their defamation claims on the allegations
that Cross-Defendants falsely stated that Cross-Complainants “are liars,
thieves, frauds, and scammers” regarding the alleged theft of the subject
Thunderbird, and that they have inferred moral turpitude by referring to Case
No. XNWLA099026-01 before it has been adjudicated.  (Cross-Compl., ¶¶ 18, 38 (second), 39-40).
However, the court finds that Cross-Complainants have not presented competent
evidence to make a prima facie showing that these statements were false. 
As to the statements that Cross-Complainants stole the Thunderbird
(Cross-Compl., ¶¶ 18, 38 (second) 39), Cross-Complainants did not present
evidence, such as a declaration from Cross-Complainants, to show that they did
not steal or unlawfully take this vehicle. 
Further, as set forth above, the court has sustained Cross-Defendants’
evidentiary objections to the evidence submitted in support of the opposition
papers (i.e., the Department of Motor Vehicles’ investigation report) because
counsel did not properly authenticate that exhibit and because the statements
therein are inadmissible hearsay. 
However, even if the court had overruled the objection to that exhibit
and considered it in ruling on this motion, the court finds that the
investigation report does not support a prima facie showing that these
statements were false, because the investigation report states only that the
investigator concluded that “there was no crime nor violations in regard to the
transactions involving the 2007 Bentley,” and therefore does not show
that Cross-Complainants made false statements regarding the “claims of theft in
regards to the ’65 Thunderbird[.]”[4]  (Chuah Decl., PDF p. 15 [emphasis added]; Cross-Compl.,
¶ 38 (second) [emphasis added].) 
As to the alleged statements made regarding the references to Case No.
XNWLA099026-01 (Cross-Compl., ¶ 40), Cross-Complainants have not shown that any
such statements were false. 
Cross-Complainants did not, for example, present argument or evidence to
make a prima facie showing that the case did not involve Cross-Complainants’
moral turpitude.  Moreover,
Cross-Complainants do not dispute that such a case had been filed against
them.  (Cross-Compl., ¶ 40 [alleging that
the case “has not been adjudicated”]; Chuah Decl., ¶ 7 [stating that Case No.
XNWLA099026-01 was dismissed on August 2, 2024].) 
Thus, the court finds that Cross-Complainants have not met their
burden to make a prima facie showing that the fourth cause of action for
defamation per se has minimal merit and therefore grants Cross-Defendants’
special motion to strike that cause of action. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b)(1); Neurlis, Inc., supra,
71 Cal.App.5th at p. 783 [if the plaintiff fails to meet its burden on the
second prong, the court will strike the claim].) 
4.     Attorney’s
Fees
Cross-Defendants request an award of $24,735 in attorney’s fees.  The court finds that Cross-Defendants have
established a lodestar figure of $17,390 and therefore awards them attorney’s
fees in that amount.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
425.16, subd. (c)(1).) 
“[A] prevailing defendant on a special motion to strike shall be
entitled to recover that defendant’s attorney’s fees and costs.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (c)(1); Frym
v. 601 Main Street LLC (2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 613, 619 [“‘[A]ny SLAPP
defendant who brings a successful motion to strike is entitled to mandatory
attorney fees’”].)  “[T]he fee setting
inquiry in California ordinarily begins with the ‘lodestar,’ i.e., the number
of hours reasonably expended multiplied by the reasonable hourly rate. . . . .¿
The reasonable hourly rate is that prevailing in the community for similar
work.¿ The lodestar figure may then be adjusted, based on consideration of
factors specific to the case, in order to fix the fee at the fair market value
for the legal services provided.”¿ (PLCM Group v. Drexler (2000) 22
Cal.4th 1084, 1095 (internal citations omitted).)¿ “[T]he verified time
statements of the attorneys, as officers of the court, are entitled to credence
in the absence of a clear indication the records are erroneous.”¿ (Horsford
v. Board of Trustees of California State Univ. (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 359,
396.)¿¿ 
Cross-Defendants have submitted the declarations of their attorneys,
in which counsel attest to their qualifications, skill, and experience.  (Hartman Decl., ¶ 23; Semnar Decl., ¶¶ 11-17.)  The court finds that (1) a reasonable hourly
rate for attorney Hartman is $600, and (2) a reasonable hourly rate for
attorney Semnar is $650.  (Ibid.)  The court finds that the total amount of 28.7
hours expended in connection with preparing the special motion to strike is
reasonable.  (Hartman Decl., ¶¶ 16-20; Semnar
Decl., ¶¶ 7-8.)  Thus, the court finds
that Cross-Defendants have established a lodestar amount of $17,390 ((25.3
hours x $600 hourly rate for Hartman) + (3.4 hours x $650 hourly rate for
attorney Semnar).  
The court denies Cross-Complainants’ request for attorney’s fees.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (c)(1).) 
ORDER
            The court grants plaintiffs
and cross-defendants Reza Safaie and Aaron Trucking, Inc.’s special motion to
strike. 
            The court orders that the fourth
cause of action for defamation per se, alleged in defendants and
cross-complainants Nicholas Fuentes and Old Earl Scheib Paint and Body’s
Cross-Complaint, is stricken.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b).) 
            The court orders defendants and
cross-complainants Nicholas Fuentes and Old Earl Scheib Paint and Body to pay
attorney’s fees in the amount of $17,390 to plaintiffs and cross-defendants
Reza Safaie and Aaron Trucking, Inc. within 30 days of the date of this order.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (c)(1).)
            The court orders plaintiffs and
cross-defendants Reza Safaie and Aaron Trucking, Inc. to give notice of this
ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  November 5, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


