  Case Number:  20STCV46671    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




annette turner

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
aids healthcare foundation

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


20STCV46671




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


November
   5, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s motion for order upholding
  “confidential” designation of documents produced in discovery
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant AIDS Healthcare
Foundation       
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:    Plaintiffs Annette Turner and Tammy Davis
Motion for Order Upholding “Confidential” Designation of Documents
Produced in Discovery
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
The court rules on defendant
AIDS Healthcare Foundation’s evidentiary objections, filed on October 30, 2024,
as follows:
Objections Nos. 1-12 are overruled. 
DISCUSSION
Defendant AIDS Healthcare Foundation (“Defendant”) moves the court for
an order upholding the “confidential” designation of the following videos and
documents produced in discovery by Defendant, to which plaintiffs Annette
Turner and Tammy Davis (“Plaintiffs”) have objected: (1) two videos depicting a
female tenant creating a disturbance and possibly experiencing mental health
issues, one of which was taken while she was at the door to her unit in the
hallway and the other of which was taken in the lobby at the Madison Hotel, (2)
one video depicting a physical altercation between a tenant and a possible
trespasser who may have committed theft, which was taken in a residential
hallway at the Madison Hotel, and (3) documents that consist of complaints and
reports made by tenants concerning alleged sexual harassment, sexual assault,
gender discrimination, or violent criminal conduct at the Madison Hotel.  (Eastman Decl., ¶¶ 7-8, 10.) 
On March 18, 2021, the parties lodged with the court a Stipulated Protective
Order.  On March 22, 2021, the court
entered an order approving the Stipulated Protective Order.  (Mar. 22, 2021 Protective Order, p. 11:1-9.)  Pursuant thereto, in the event that a party
objects to a confidential designation, counsel for the designating party shall
have 30 days to either (a) agree in writing to de-designate the documents, or
(b) file a motion with the court seeking to uphold any or all of the designations.  (Mar. 22, 2021 Protective Order, ¶ 6.) 
The court finds that Defendant has met its burden to establish the
applicability of the confidential designation of the subject videos and
documents because Defendant has shown that they consist of videos and
information that concern the privacy rights of the non-parties.  (Mar. 22, 2021 Protective Order, ¶ 6 [“The
Designating Party shall have the burden on any Designation Motion of
establishing the applicability of its ‘Confidential’ designation”].)
“The party asserting a privacy right must establish a legally
protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in
the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious.  [Citation.] 
The party seeking information may raise in response whatever legitimate
and countervailing interests disclosure serves, while the party seeking
protection may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or
protective measures that would diminish the loss of privacy.  A court must then balance these competing
considerations.  [Citations.]”  (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3
Cal.5th 531, 552.) 
Defendant has presented evidence establishing that (1) there is a
legally protected privacy interest belonging to Defendant’s residents in (i)
the acts taking place in the building in which they live, and (ii) the reports
made to Defendant regarding acts of violence committed at the Madison Hotel,
and (2) the tenants had an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy under
the circumstances.  (Williams, supra,
3 Cal.5th at p. 552; Eastman Decl., ¶¶ 7-8, 10 [describing videos and
documents].)  The court disagrees with
Plaintiffs’ contention that the tenants did not have a reasonable expectation
of privacy because the subject conduct, even if occurring in hallways or
lobbies at the Madison Hotel, took place in the building in which the tenants
lived.  The court further finds that
Plaintiffs have not shown that all of the subject documents are in the public
record or are publicly available. 
Plaintiffs have, in opposition, asserted that, if they use the videos
of the female tenant, they will blur out her face, and will further redact the
names of the crime victims in the incident reports.  (Harings Decl., ¶¶ 7 [“Plaintiffs are willing
to blur out the subject woman’s face”], 9.)  The court also notes that Plaintiffs’ counsel
states, in her declaration, that (1) some of the documents were filed in
another action, and (2) some of the documents were created by Plaintiffs.  (Harings Decl., ¶ 9.)  However, Plaintiffs did not specifically
state which documents that are the subject of this motion were previously filed
in another action.  Moreover, although Plaintiffs’
counsel states that certain of the documents were created by Plaintiffs and
objects to those being designated as confidential, counsel did not specifically
identify which pages were created by Plaintiffs and instead has cited to,
generally, the documents that are the subject of this motion.  (Ibid. [as to pages AHF-Turner
1135-1396, stating that those include “documents created by my own clients—I
recognize my client’s handwriting and her report (AHF-Turner 1135-1396)”].) 
The court finds, after weighing the privacy rights of the non-parties
to this action and the parties’ suggestions regarding the treatment of the
discovery (i.e., Plaintiffs’ suggestions to redact identifying information and
Defendant’s request that the confidential designation be upheld), that, in
order to protect the privacy interests identified by Defendant, it is
appropriate to uphold the confidential designation of the protective order.  The court therefore grants Defendant’s
motion.
            The court denies Plaintiffs’ request
for monetary sanctions against Defendant. 
ORDER
            The court grants defendant AIDS
Healthcare Foundation’s motion for order upholding “confidential” designation
of documents produced in discovery.            
            The court orders that the following videos
and documents produced by defendant AIDS Healthcare Foundation in this action
shall be designated as “Confidential” pursuant to the protective order entered
by the court in this action on March 22, 2021: (1) the video with the bates
number “AHF-TURNER 01367,” (2) the video with the bates number “AHF-TURNER
01368,” (3) the video with the bates number “AHF-TURNER 01394,” and (4) the
documents with the bates numbers “AHF-TURNER 1135-1396” and “AHF-TURNER 1567-1717.”
The court orders counsel for defendant AIDS Healthcare Foundation and
plaintiffs Annette Turner and Tammy Davis to meet and confer, no later than
November 15, 2024, to discuss and determine whether any of the documents within
bates numbers “AHF-TURNER 1135-1396” and “AHF-TURNER 1567-1717” that were created
by plaintiffs Annette Turner and Tammy Davis should not be designated as
confidential pursuant to the protective order entered by the court on March 22,
2021, based on plaintiffs Annette Turner and Tammy Davis’s objections to such
documents being designated as confidential. 
            The court orders defendant AIDS
Healthcare Foundation to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  November 5, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court