 Case Number:  23STCV27511    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles




 
Alex Mezulari, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case 
No.:
 


 
23STCV27511




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




 
Manhattan Loft, LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: February 15, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Demurrer to Complaint and Motion to
Strike
Moving Party: Defendant FPI Management, Inc.
Responding Party: Plaintiffs Alex Mezulari
 
T/R:     DEFENDANT’S
DEMURRER TO THE NINTH CAUSE OF ACTION IS SUSTAINED. THE DEMURRER TO THE
REMAINING CAUSES OF ACTION IS OVERRULED.
THE MOTION TO STRIKE IS GRANTED AS TO PUNITIVE DAMAGES ONLY.
PLAINTIFF TO FILE AND SERVE A FIRST
AMENDED COMPLAINT WITHIN 30 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING. DEFENDANT TO FILE AND
SERVE A RESPONSE WITHIN 30 DAYS THEREAFTER. 
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing counsel
(or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On November 8, 2023, Plaintiff Alex
Mezulari sued Defendants Manhattan Loft, LLC, et al., asserting causes of
action for (1) violation of Civ. Code 1942.4; (2) breach of warranty of
habitability; (3) nuisance; (4) UCL violations; (5) negligence; (6) breach of
covenant of quiet enjoyment; (7) IIED; (8) intentional influence to vacate; (9)
violation of Civ. Code 1750; (10) violation of Los Angeles Tenant
Anti-Harassment Ordinance; and (11) false advertising.
 
Tenant Plaintiff alleges the unit
Plaintiff occupies, managed and/or owned by Defendants, is in uninhabitable
condition due to water shut offs, limited hot water supply, lack
of mosquito proof screens on all operable windows, broken heater, inoperable
air conditioner, limited lighting, damaged bathroom and kitchen outlets,
damaged appliances, deteriorated cabinets, cracked kitchen floor, rodent
droppings, leaking showerhead, broken elevators, inoperable fire alarms, broken
washer and dryers.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken
to the whole complaint or to any of the causes of action in it.  (CCP § 430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only the legal
sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual allegations or the
plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations. 
(Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.
App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court must treat
as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law. 
(Id. at 732-33.)  The
complaint is to be construed liberally to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
A. First Cause of Action for Violation of Civ. Code §
1942.4 and Tenth Cause of Action for Violation of LAMC § 45.33
Defendant FPI demurs to the first cause of
action on the ground that Plaintiff has failed to allege specific dates showing
the violations and when FPI was notified of violations. Plaintiff alleges FPI
received notice of violations and failed to remedy them within the required
time. Plaintiffs need not plead the exact dates. 
The demurrer to the first and tenth causes of
action is OVERRULED.
B. Second Cause of Action Breach of Warranty of
Habitability and Sixth Cause of Action for Breach of Covenant of Quiet
Enjoyment 
Defendant demurs to the second and sixth
causes of action on the ground that Plaintiff has failed to allege the
existence of a contract. Plaintiff alleges the existence of a written lease
agreement starting in 2021. This is sufficient to allege the existence of a
contract.
The demurrer to the second and sixth causes
of action is OVERRULED.
C. Third Cause of Action for Nuisance
Defendant demurs to the third cause of action
on the ground they are duplicative of the fifth cause of action for negligence.
The Court declines to sustain the demurrer on this basis. Plaintiff may plead
alternative theories of liability.
The demurrer to the third cause of action is
OVERRULED.
D. Fourth and Eleventh Causes of Action for UCL
Violations 
Defendant asserts the fourth and eleventh
causes of action fail because Plaintiff groups all “Defendants” together and do
not allege how each individual Defendant committed statutory violations.
Plaintiff may allege that all Defendants violated the statutory provisions. The
demurrer cannot be sustained on this basis.
The demurrer to the fourth and eleventh
causes of action is OVERRULED.
E. Seventh Cause of Action for IIED
Defendant asserts Plaintiff cannot state a
claim for IIED because Plaintiff has failed to allege extreme and outrageous
conduct or severe emotional distress. Plaintiff alleges Defendants consistently
cut off Plaintiff’s access to water, failed to provide adequate heat and
cooling, and refused to remedy severely damaged areas in the unit. Plaintiff
alleges Defendant was notified of these conditions and failed to remedy them,
leading to severe emotional distress. A jury could find this constitutes
extreme and outrageous conduct. 
The demurrer to the seventh cause of action
is OVERRULED.
F. Eighth Cause of Action for Violation of Civ. Code § 1940.2
Civil
Code § 1940.2 precludes menacing conduct constituting a course of conduct that
interferes with the quiet enjoyment of the property and would create an
apprehension of harm in a reasonable person. Defendant asserts Plaintiff has
failed to allege facts showing apprehension of harm. Plaintiff alleges
Defendant willfully failed to remedy the uninhabitable conditions of the unit
to influence Plaintiff to vacate. This is sufficient to state a cause of action
for violation of Civil Code § 1940.2.
The demurrer to the eighth cause of action is
OVERRULED
G. Ninth Cause of
Action for Violation of CLRA
Defendant asserts the ninth cause of action fails because the CLRA only
applies to “goods or services.” The Court agrees. Courts have held that transactions involving the sale of
real property are not “goods” or “services” as defined by the CLRA. (See McKell
v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457.) Plaintiff provides
no authority applying the CLRA to real property leases. 
 
The demurrer to the ninth cause of
action is SUSTAINED.
 
F. Motion to Strike
Defendant moves to strike Plaintiff’s prayers
for punitive damages, attorney’s fees, and special damages. The Court will not
strike the prayers for attorney’s fees and special damages because Plaintiffs
have adequately pleaded entitlement to them. The Court agrees, however, that
Plaintiffs have failed to allege entitlement to punitive damages with the
requisite specificity. Plaintiffs do not allege facts showing corporate
ratification and do not allege facts showing how Defendant specifically acted
with malice, oppression, or fraud. 
The motion to strike is GRANTED as to
punitive damages only.


 