  Case Number:  22STCV07170    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles




 
Sheila Sansano,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22STCV07170




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Kaiser Foundation Hospitals,


 
 
 
Defendant.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date:
February 15, 2024
Department 54,
Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for
Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Motion for Summary Adjudication
Moving Party: Defendant
Kaiser Foundation Hospitals
Responding
Party: Plaintiff Sheila Sansano
 
T/R:      DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR
ALTERNATIVELY, MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION IS DENIED.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties
wish to submit on the tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
                
On February 28, 2022, Plaintiff Sheila Sansano sued Defendant Kaiser
Foundation Hospitals, asserting causes of action for (1) discrimination; (2)
harassment; (3) retaliation; (4) failure to prevent discrimination, harassment
and retaliation; (5) wrongful termination in violation of public policy; (6)
whistleblower retaliation; (7) breach of oral contract; and (8) breach of
implied-in-fact contract. 
 
The Court sustained Defendants’ demurrer to the seventh and eighth
causes of action with leave to amend. On September 6, 2022, Plaintiff filed a
first amended complaint for 1) discrimination; (2) harassment; (3) retaliation;
(4) failure to prevent discrimination, harassment, and retaliation; (5)
wrongful termination in violation of public policy; (6) whistleblower
retaliation; and (7) breach of implied-in-fact contract. 
 
Plaintiff, a Filipino woman, alleges Defendant terminated her employment
as the Director of Food and Nutrition Services on the basis of her race,
national origin and gender, and for reporting instances of discrimination and
harassment.
 
EVIDENCE OBJECTIONS
 
Defendant’s objections to the declarations of Plaintiff and Melineh
Jingozian are OVERRULED.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“The purpose of the law of summary
judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties'
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Trial judges are required “to grant summary
judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (CCP § 437c(p)(2).) Once the defendant has met that
burden, “the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one
or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.”
(Id.)  To establish a triable
issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce “substantial
responsive evidence.” (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,
166.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing
summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384,
389.)
 
A. First Cause of Action for Discrimination
To successfully assert a claim for
discrimination, Plaintiff must satisfy the requirements of the three-step McDonnell
Douglas test. (See Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317,
354-55.)  Generally, a prima facie case requires showing that (1)
plaintiff was a member of a protected class; (2) they were qualified for the
position they sought or were performing competently in the position they held;
(3) plaintiff suffered an adverse employment action, such as termination,
demotion, or denial of an available job; and (4) some other circumstance
suggests discriminatory motive. (See id. at 355.) 
 
Once a plaintiff has established a
prima facie case, there is a “rebuttable” but “legally mandatory” presumption
of discrimination. (Id. at 355.) The burden then shifts to the defendant
to rebut the presumption by producing admissible evidence that the defendant’s
“action was taken for a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason.” (Id. at
355-356.) 
 
Finally, if the defendant meets its
burden, “the presumption of discrimination disappears.” (Id. at 356.)
The plaintiff must then show that the defendant’s legitimate reason is merely
pretext. (Id.) “Pretext may be inferred from the timing of the discharge
decision, the identity of the decision-maker, or by the discharged employee's
job performance before termination.” (Hanson v. Lucky Stores, Inc.
(1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 215, 224.) “Pretext may [also] be demonstrated by showing
that the proffered reason had no basis in fact, the proffered reason did not
actually motivate the discharge, or, the proffered reason was insufficient to
motivate discharge.” (Id.) 
 
Defendant asserts Plaintiff’s claim for
discrimination fails because Plaintiff was not performing her job
satisfactorily, Plaintiff cannot show a causal nexus between her race and her
termination, and Defendants had legitimate, non-discriminatory reasons.
Defendant presents evidence purportedly showing Plaintiff violated various
company policies. Defendant asserts Plaintiff was terminated because she
improperly expensed and reimbursed herself for food items that were donated by
other employees and the investigation into this incident revealed other policy
violations.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues
Defendant’s reasons for termination are pretext. Plaintiff presents evidence
showing she performed her job satisfactorily, she did not violate the policies
identified by Defendant, and other employees who purportedly violated the same
policies were treated more favorably than Plaintiff. Plaintiff provides
evidence showing she reported the conduct of at least two employees who treated
her with hostility and made disparaging comments about Plaintiff’s Filipino
descent. Plaintiff asserts these employees also made false reports of
misconduct against Plaintiff and deflated her tires. Plaintiff disputes that
Defendant properly investigated her claims. This is sufficient to establish a
triable issue of fact as to discrimination.
 
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment
is DENIED. 
 
B. Third and Sixth Causes of Action for
Retaliation
 
To establish retaliation, a plaintiff
must show that “(1) he or she engaged in a ‘protected activity,’ (2) the
employer subjected the employee to an adverse employment action, and (3) a
causal link existed between the protected activity and the employer’s action.”
(Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1042.) A
retaliation claim can be brought by an employee who has complained of conduct
reasonably believed to be discriminatory. (Id. at 1043; see also Kelley
v. Conco Companies (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 191, 209-10.)
 
Defendant asserts Plaintiff’s
claims for retaliation fail because there is no causal link between Plaintiff’s
complaints and her termination. Plaintiff presents evidence showing she made at
least three complaints to Defendant about conduct she believed to be
discriminatory, two as late as 2020. Plaintiff points to an April 2020 email
from HR Business Partner Carole Erken, stating “We cannot have Sheila continue
to put her thoughts down on paper making up conclusions when an investigation
has not occurred,” and “I am very concerned that her inappropriate emails
continue and will create future liability for the organization.” This is
sufficient to create a triable issue of fact as to retaliation.
 
C. Second Cause of Action for Harassment
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff’s
claim for harassment fails because the alleged harassment was perpetrated by
subordinate, rather than supervisory, employees. Defendant asserts “[w]hen the
harasser is a nonsupervisory employee, employer liability turns on a showing of
negligence (that is, the employer knew or should have known of the harassment
and failed to take appropriate corrective action).” (Rehmani v. Superior
Court (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 945, 952.) As discussed, Plaintiff has
presented evidence showing Defendant was aware of the subordinate employees’
behavior and nonetheless terminated Plaintiff’s employment. This creates a
triable issue of fact as to harassment.
 
D. Fourth and Fifth Causes of Action for Failure
to Prevent and Wrongful Termination and Punitive Damages
 
Defendant asserts the fourth
and fifth causes of action and the claim for punitive damages fail because they
are derivative of the causes of action for discrimination, harassment, and
retaliation. Plaintiff has presented triable issues of fact as to these claims.
 
E. Seventh Cause of Action for Breach of
Implied-in-Fact Contract
 
Courts have acknowledged that
implied-in-fact contracts to terminate an individual’s employment without cause
can exist. (Guz v. Bechtel
Nat. Inc. (2000) 24
Cal.4th 317, 336-7.) Factors to consider are “the personnel policies or
practices of the employer, the employee's longevity of service, actions or
communications by the employer reflecting assurances of continued employment,
and the practices of the industry in which the employee is engaged.” (Id.
Internal quotations omitted.)
 
Defendant asserts there is no implied contract allowing only “for cause”
termination because Defendant had an express “at-will” policy and Plaintiff
admitted at deposition that she knew her employment was “at-will.” In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that her years of satisfactory performance and
Defendant’s policies against discriminatory terminations imply a contract
mandating “for cause” terminations. This is sufficient to create a triable
issue of fact. 
 