 Case Number:  21STCV17045    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  14 Becerra v In N OutCase Background
 
This is a PAGA claim for wage and hour
violations.
 
Complaint
 
On May 6, 2021, Plaintiff Luis
Becerra (“Becerra”) filed his Complaint for (1) PAGA Penalties and (2) Unfair
Competition against Defendants In-N-Out Burger and DOES 1-100. 
 
On June 22, 2021, Defendant filed
its Answer. 
 
On April 22, 2022, the parties
stipulated that the second cause of action would be dismissed and brought in a
pending arbitration proceeding instead.
 
On June 2, 2022, pursuant to the
recusal of Judge William F. Fahey, the case was reassigned to this department.
 
On August 11, 2022, this court split
Plaintiff’s PAGA claim into an individual and a representative claim, pursuant
to Viking River Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana (2022) 142 S.Ct. 1906. The
individual PAGA claim was ordered to arbitration; the representative PAGA claim
was stayed.
 
On August 22, 2023, this court
confirmed an arbitration award issued in Defendant’s favor on various non-PAGA
claims.
 
Intervenor
 
On November 22, 2023, Intervenor
Plaintiff Elissa Bristow (“Bristow”) filed her Complaint-in-Intervention for
PAGA Penalties against Defendants In-N-Out Burger and DOES 1-100.
 
On December 29, 2023, Defendant
filed its Answer.
 
Trial Date
 
No trial date is currently set.
 
Instant Motion
 
            Defendant now
moves this court for orders (1) compelling Plaintiff Bristow’s individual PAGA
claims to arbitration and (2) staying prosecution of Plaintiff Bristow’s
representative PAGA claims pending the outcome in arbitration.
 
Decision
 
            Defendant’s
Request for Judicial Notice (“RJN”) is GRANTED as to Exhibit A and otherwise
DENIED. 
 
            Defendant’s
motion is GRANTED. The prosecution of the Complaint-in-Intervention is STAYED
pending the outcome in arbitration. 
 
            The court
sets a Status Conference for April 26, 2024, at 8:30 am. Counsel are to meet
and confer and file a Joint Status Report on or before April 19, 2024.
 
Discussion
 
            Intervenor Plaintiff
concedes the existence of an enforceable arbitration agreement, and that Viking
River Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana (2022) 142 S.Ct. 1906 requires the
subdivision of her PAGA claims into “individual” and “representative”
components, with the individual components going to arbitration. The dispute
appears to be about whether the court should stay prosecution of the
representative component, which remains here in court.
 
            The parties
dispute whether a stay is mandatory, or whether the decision rests in the
discretion of the court. But even assuming that the matter is discretionary,
the court would issue a stay in this case. 
 
            It is sometimes
the case that what a statute giveth, case law taketh away. For example, in the
pre-Viking River environment when PAGA claims could not be sent to
arbitration at all, courts had to decide what to do when the Labor Code claims
which underlay PAGA causes of action did go to arbitration. Because PAGA is a “borrowing
statute” – in the sense that creates no substantive liability itself but merely
allows enforcement of other Labor Code sections – the outcome of the Labor Code
claims would determine the outcome on the PAGA claims, and vice versa. Code of
Civil Procedure § 1281.2(d) appeared to give courts discretion to proceed
with the PAGA claims in that scenario. But case law, reading Section 1281.2(d)
together with Code of Civil Procedure § 1281.4, required trial courts to
stay PAGA claims pending the arbitration on the Labor Code claims.
 
            The
situation here is similar. Adolph v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023) 14
Cal.5th 1104, 1123 suggests that the court has statutory “discretion”
to stay or proceed with representative PAGA claims while their individual counterparts
proceed in arbitration. However, that same decision also clearly suggests that
the California Supreme Court expected trial courts to exercise their discretion
in precisely the manner requested by Defendant: stay the representative claims,
await arbitration, handle any motion to confirm or vacate the arbitrator’s
decision, then proceed to the PAGA claims. Id. at 1123-24. The Court saw
“no basis” for any concern about that method of proceeding. Id. at 1124.
This trial court is obliged to follow the guidance of the California Supreme
Court. 
 
            This motion
is the only item currently on-calendar in this case. Yet the Complaint of Plaintiff
Becerra remains pending. Counsel need to discuss how to handle that portion of
the case, especially now that the arbitration of Plaintiff Becerra’s individual
claims appears to be over. And this court needs to have a future date to check
on the initiation of arbitration on Plaintiff Bristow’s individual claims.
 
Conclusion
 
            Plaintiff
Bristow concedes that there is an enforceable arbitration agreement, that her
PAGA claims must be split into “individual” and “representative” components,
and that the individual component must go to arbitration. In Adolph, supra,
the California Supreme Court advised that prosecution of the representative component
could and should be stayed pending the arbitration on the individual component.
Therefore, the motion is GRANTED. The prosecution of the Complaint-in-Intervention
is STAYED pending the outcome in arbitration. 
 
            Additionally,
the court needs (a) counsel to address the continuing pendency of Plaintiff Becerra’s
complaint, and (b) to ensure that arbitration on Plaintiff Bristow’s individual
claims is commenced. Therefore, the court sets a Status Conference for April
26, 2024, at 8:30 am. Counsel are to meet and confer and file a Joint Status
Report on or before April 19, 2024.