 Case Number:  23STCV06071    Hearing Date:   July 5, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     July 5, 2024                TRIAL DATE: October
8, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Perla E. Hernandez Cuevas v. FCA US LLC
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV06071            
 
(1)
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION (SET ONE)
(2)
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION (SET TWO)

 
MOVING PARTY:               (1)(2) Plaintiff Perla E. Hernandez Cuevas
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): (1)(2) Defendant FCA
US LLC
 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a lemon law action filed on March 20, 2023. Plaintiff purchased a
2019 Jeep Wrangler which allegedly manifested defects in numerous core systems.
 
Plaintiff moves to compel further
responses to requests for propounded to Defendant. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Requests for Production is GRANTED. 
 
            Defendant is ordered to produce
verified, code-compliant responses without objections to the requests as
propounded within 30 days of this order. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for
Production (Set One)
 
Plaintiff moves to compel further
responses to requests for production (set one) No. 19 propounded to Defendant.
Legal Standard
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, subdivision (a), a court
may order a party to serve a further response to a demand for inspection when
the court finds that: “(1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete[;] (2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive[; or] (3) An objection in the response is without merit
or too general.”
 
The burden is on the moving party to “set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (b)(1).) These facts must also be set forth in a separate
statement filed by the moving party. (Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1345(c).) This
burden “is met simply by a fact-specific showing of relevance.” (TBG Ins.
Servs. Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 443, 448.)
 
Timeliness
 
A motion to compel further
responses to requests for production must be served “within 45 days of the
service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on
or before any specific later date to which the propounding party and the
responding party have agreed in writing.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.310(c).) The 45-day requirement is mandatory and jurisdictional. (Sexton
v. Superior Court¿(1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.)
 
Following an Informal Discovery
Conference on May 13, 2024, the Court ordered, pursuant to a stipulation by the
parties, that Plaintiff would have until June 11, 2024 to file motions to
compel on any outstanding discovery issues. (May 13, 2024 Minute Order.) The
instant motion was served on that date, and is therefore timely,
notwithstanding that the motion was filed on June 12, 2024.  
 
Meet and Confer
 
A party making a motion to compel further responses must also include a
declaration stating facts showing a “reasonable and good faith attempt” to
resolve informally the issues presented by the motion before filing the motion.
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2016.040, 2031.310, subd. (b)(2).)
 
The Declaration of Nadine Bedwan in
support of the motion sets forth the extensive history of Plaintiff’s attempts
to informally resolve this dispute, including several meet-and-confer letters
and an informal discovery conference. (See Declaration of Nadine Bedwan ISO
Mot. ¶¶ 18-27 Exhs. 6-13.) Plaintiff has satisfied the statutory meet-and-confer
obligations. 
 
//
 
//
Good Cause
 
Plaintiff moves to compel further
responses to request for production (set one) No. 19 propounded to Defendant. This
request seeks all documents, including electronically stored information and
electronic mail, concerning customer complaints, claims, reported failures, and
warranty claims related to “electrical defects” in vehicles of the same year,
make and model as the subject vehicle, including any databases in Defendant’s
possession with information from dealers, service departments, parts
departments, or warranty departments, and documents concerning Defendant’s
response to each complaint, claim, or reported failure. (Bedwan Decl. Exh. 3.
No. 19.) “Electrical Defect” is defined as:
 
such defects which result in symptoms
including, but not limited to: Eco start/stop malfunction; Battery test fail;
AUX battery replacement; Vehicle won’t start without jump; Instrument panel
cluster no power; Cluster will not light up, gauges inoperative; TSB 08-023-19;
and any other concern identified in the repair history for the subject 2019
Jeep Wrangler; Vehicle Identification Number 1C4HJXDG6KW557902.
 
(Bedwan Decl. Exh. 3. p.3:16-20.) 
 
            Evidence of
similar defects in other vehicles are both relevant and admissible. (Donlen
v. Ford Motor Co. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 138, 153.) Admissible evidence is
discoverable. (Glenfed Development Corp. v. Superior Court (1997) 53
Cal.App.4th 1113, 1117-18.) Documents regarding warranty complaints, service
histories, and employee records concerning a defect in all affected vehicles,
as well as documents regarding the manufacturer’s responses and instructions to
cure that defect are discoverable. (See Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc.
(2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 971 [holding that the trial court’s approval of a
discovery referee’s report and recommendation of sanctions for failure to
produce documents of this nature relating to the subject defect in all affected
vehicles was not an abuse of discretion].) 
 
Defendant contends that Donlen
and Doppes are both distinguishable from the present case -- Donlen
because the issue was whether the plaintiff’s expert testimony regarding
defects in and special service bulletins relating to other vehicles was
inadmissible, rather than production of documents relating to these issues, (Donlen,
supra, 217 Cal.App.4th at 138), and Doppes because that case was
also an action for fraud, and the manufacturer did not challenge the discovery
referee’s findings. (Doppes, supra, 174 Cal.App.4th at 973-74,
993.) Defendant is correct that these cases are factually distinguishable, but
the Court disagrees with Defendant that these cases do not support the position
that the documents sought are relevant and admissible. In Doppes, the
Court of Appeal expressly stated that the trial court did not abuse its
discretion in adopting the discovery referee’s report and recommendation. (Doppes,
supra, at 971.) Further, expert testimony as in Donlen regarding
documentary evidence must necessarily have a foundation in that evidence to be
admissible. (Cooper v. Takeda Pharmaceuticals America, Inc. (2015) 239
Cal.App.4th 555, 577.)  Documentary
evidence on which an expert is testifying must therefore be discoverable. (Glenfed,
supra, 53 Cal.App.4th at 1117-18.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff seeks documentary
evidence relating to the types of issues directly addressed in both decisions.
The Court therefore finds that good cause exists for this request.
 
Defendant’s Response
 
            Defendant’s
initial response consisted of a series of boilerplate objections for vagueness
and ambiguity, irrelevance, overbreadth, undue burden and harassment, and invasion
of privacy of other owners. (Bedwan Decl. Exh. 4. No. 19.) Defendant’s
supplemental response stated that it would comply with the request and produce
subject to a protective order, all responsive documents within its possession,
custody, or control “relating to other customer concerns, for the same make,
year and model as the Subject Vehicle as they relate to Plaintiff’s
“INFOTAINMENT SYSTEM DEFECT” definition.” (Bedwan Decl. Exh. 5. No. 19.) 
 
            In
opposition, Defendant first contends that Plaintiff did not address the
sufficiency of Defendant’s supplemental response—a response which unilaterally
narrows the scope of the request, does not identify responsive documents as
required by Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.280(a), and does not respond
to the same defect identified in the request, and is therefore insufficient on
its face. Defendant’s contention that its production is compliant with other
court orders in other cases is entirely irrelevant. 
 
Defendant asserts that the
definition of “Electrical Defect” employed for Plaintiff’s requests is overly
broad and ambiguous. The Court disagrees with Defendant. These terms are not
overly broad for the purpose of discovery nor are they so vague that Defendant
is unable to intelligibly respond. The remainder of Defendant’s objections claim
overbreadth or irrelevance on the basis that discovery not pertaining directly
to the subject vehicle is improper. Defendant is incorrect, as the Court has
discussed with respect to the good cause shown for the request. 
 
Further, although Defendant asserts
that the request as written is unduly burdensome, Defendant offers no evidence
of that contention. Defendant also entirely fails to justify its privacy
objections. The Court therefore finds these objections are meritless. Plaintiff
is entitled to an order compelling full and complete responses without any
unilateral narrowing of scope to this request. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production (Set
One) No. 19 is GRANTED. Defendant is ordered to provide verified,
code-compliant responses without objections to the request as propounded
within 30 days of this order. 
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for
Production (Set Two) 
 
Plaintiff moves to compel further
responses to requests for production (set two) Nos. 58-63 propounded to
Defendant.
 
Legal Standard
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, subdivision (a), a court
may order a party to serve a further response to a demand for inspection when
the court finds that: “(1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete[;] (2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive[; or] (3) An objection in the response is without merit
or too general.”
 
The burden is on the moving party to “set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (b)(1).) These facts must also be set forth in a separate statement filed
by the moving party. (Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1345(c).) This burden “is met
simply by a fact-specific showing of relevance.” (TBG Ins. Servs. Corp. v.
Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 443, 448.)
 
Timeliness
 
A motion to compel further
responses to requests for production must be served “within 45 days of the
service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on
or before any specific later date to which the propounding party and the responding
party have agreed in writing.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310(c).) The 45-day
requirement is mandatory and jurisdictional. (Sexton v. Superior Court¿(1997)
58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.)
 
Following an Informal Discovery
Conference on May 13, 2024, the Court ordered pursuant to a stipulation by the
parties that Plaintiff would have until June 11, 2024 to file motions to compel
on any outstanding discovery issues. (May 13, 2024 Minute Order.) The instant
motion was served on that date, and is therefore timely, notwithstanding that
the motion was filed on June 12, 2024.  
 
Meet and Confer
 
A party making a motion to compel further responses must also include a
declaration stating facts showing a “reasonable and good faith attempt” to
resolve informally the issues presented by the motion before filing the motion.
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2016.040, 2031.310, subd. (b)(2).)
 
The Declaration of Nadine Bedwan in
support of the motion sets forth the extensive history of Plaintiff’s attempts
to informally resolve this dispute, including several meet-and-confer letters
and an informal discovery conference. (See Declaration of Nadine Bedwan ISO
Mot. ¶¶ 16-22 Exhs. 4-8.) Plaintiff has satisfied the statutory meet-and-confer
obligations. 
 
Good Cause
 
            Plaintiff moves to compel further
responses to Requests for Production Nos. 58-63. These requests seek all
documents relating to internal analysis or investigation into the “engine
defect” (Bedwan Decl. Exh. 2. No. 58), communications regarding the “engine
defect” (No. 59); decisions to issue notices, letters, campaigns, warranty
extensions, technical service bulletins, and recalls concerning the “engine
defect” (No. 60); customer complaints, reported failures, and warranty claims;
(No. 61); failure rates because of the “engine defect” (No. 62); and fixes for
the “engine defect.” (No. 63.) All requests pertain not only to the subject
vehicle but to vehicles of the same year, make, and model. The requests define
“engine defect” to mean:
 
such defects which result in symptoms
including, but not limited to: Vehicle shakes at highway speeds; Vehicle
won’t start; Vehicle requires jumpstart; Check engine light on; Leak from front
of engine; Rear shock leaking; Valve cover gasket replacement; Engine oil
cooler leaking; Engine oil cooler seal warped; Leaking shock absorber
replacement; and any other concern identified in the repair history for the
subject 2019 Jeep Wrangler; Vehicle Identification Number 1C4HJXDG6KW557902.
 
(Bedwan Decl. Exh.
2. p.3:15:20.) 
 
            Evidence of similar defects
in other vehicles are both relevant and admissible. (Donlen v. Ford Motor
Co. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 138, 153.) Admissible evidence is discoverable.
(Glenfed Development Corp. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 1113,
1117-18.) Documents regarding warranty complaints, service histories, and
employee records concerning a defect in all affected vehicles, as well as
documents regarding the manufacturer’s responses and instructions to cure that
defect are discoverable. (See Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174
Cal.App.4th 967, 971 [holding that the trial court’s approval of a discovery
referee’s report and recommendation of sanctions for failure to produce
documents of this nature relating to the subject defect in all affected
vehicles was not an abuse of discretion].) Applying this well-settled precedent, the Court therefore finds that
Plaintiff has shown good cause for these requests. 
 
Defendant’s
Responses
 
            In response to each request,
Defendant asserted substantially identical boilerplate objections that the
requests were not reasonably particularized, were overbroad and argumentative,
that the definition of “engine defect” was not sufficiently specific, that the
definition of “your” in reference to Defendant was overbroad, that the requests
seek confidential or privileged information and seek information regarding
other customers which is irrelevant and violates their privacy rights,, that
the request for electronically stored information is overbroad and unduly
burdensome, and that the vehicle was purchased used and therefore not subject
to the remedies of the Song-Beverly Act. (See, e.g., Bedwan Decl. Exh. 3. No. 58.)

 
            In opposition, Defendant first
argues that Plaintiff did not address the sufficiency of Defendant’s
supplemental production served on June 18, 2023.  (Declaration of Michael J. Gregg ISO Opp. Ex.
D.) However, those supplemental responses are unaccompanied by a verification, and unverified responses to discovery
are tantamount to no responses at all. (See Steven
M. Garber & Associates v. Eskandarian (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 813, 817
fn 4.) Even if it were verified, Defendant’s supplemental response unilaterally
narrows the scope of the request to “customer concerns,” and does not identify
the responsive documents which are or will be provided, in violation of Code of
Civil Procedure section 2031.280(a). Moreover, Defendant entirely fails to
justify any of its objections beyond baldly asserting that the responses are
overbroad and irrelevant, or, alternatively, that Plaintiff has not demonstrated
that the objections are invalid. However, the burden is on Defendant to
justify any failure to fully respond to these requests. (See Coy v. Superior
Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220–221.) Defendant has failed to do so.
Plaintiff is therefore entitled to an order compelling further responses. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production (Set
Two) is GRANTED. Defendant is ordered to provide verified, code-compliant
responses without objections to the request as propounded within
30 days of this order. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production (Set One) is GRANTED. 
 
            Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Requests for Production (Set Two) is GRANTED. 
 
            Defendant is ordered to produce
verified, code-compliant responses without objections to the requests as
propounded within 30 days of this order. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  July 5, 2024                                        ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 