 Case Number:  23STCV09998    Hearing Date:   July 5, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     July 5, 2024                TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Evelyn Larrubia v. Minnesota Public
Radio d/b/a American Public Media Group; et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV09998            
 
MOTION
TO SEAL RECORD OR PROCEED UNDER PSEUDONYM

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Evelyn Larrubia
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): No response on
eCourt as of 7/1/24. Joint stipulation for relief sought included with motion
as Exhibit A. 
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
05/03/23: Complaint filed. 
·        
04/29/24: Notice of Settlement of Entire Case
filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an employment discrimination action. Plaintiff alleges that she reported
employment and hiring practices claimed to be discriminatory and was harassed
and terminated in retaliation. 
 
Plaintiff moves to seal the record,
or, in the alternative, to replace her name with a pseudonym. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Seal is DENIED.
 
            Plaintiff’s
alternative Motion to Proceed Under Pseudonym is GRANTED conditioned on
Plaintiff herself filing a declaration setting forth the matters that are
uniquely within her personal knowledge, as outlined herein. Plaintiff’s
supplemental declaration shall be filed and served on or before Friday July 19,
2024. 
 
            The
Court sets a Non-Appearance Case Review for Wednesday, July 24, 2024, at 8:30
AM, at which time the Court will review the supplemental filings and determine
whether the conditions of the Court’s ruling have been satisfied. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiff moves to seal the record,
or, in the alternative, to replace her name with a pseudonym. 
 
Sealing the Record
 
The sealing of court records is
governed by California Rules of Court rules 2.550 and 2.551. (Mercury
Interactive Corp. v. Klein (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 60, 68.) The
presumption of open access to court records does not apply to “records that are
required to be kept confidential by law.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
2.550(a)(3).) A party seeking to seal a court record or seeking to file a
record under seal must do so by motion or application supported by a
declaration showing facts justifying the record’s sealing.  (Id.,
rule 2.551(b)(1).) California Rules of Court rule 2.550(d) states: “The court
may order that a record be filed under seal only if it expressly finds facts
that establish: 
(1) There exists an overriding interest that overcomes
the right of public access to the record;
(2) The overriding interest supports sealing the
record; 
(3) A substantial probability exists that the
overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; 
(4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored;
and 
(5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve the
overriding interest.”  
(Id.
Rule 2.550(d).) 
 
            Once sealed, a record can only be
unsealed by order of court.  (Id., rule
2.551(h)(1).)  So long as it remains under seal, all parties must
refrain from filing anything not under seal that would disclose the sealed
matter.  (Id., rule 2.551(c).)  If a party files a
new document referring to sealed matter, it must submit an unredacted version
of the document under seal and a redacted one for the public
record.  (Id., rule 2.551(b)(5); H.B. Fuller Co. v.
Doe (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 879, 889.) 
 
            Plaintiff contends that she has an
overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record and
supports sealing the record because she believes that, as a journalist in the
entertainment industry, her involvement in this lawsuit will jeopardize her
chances for future employment. However, these contentions are made not by
Plaintiff in a formal declaration, but by her counsel, who does not have
personal knowledge of these facts, his assertion to the contrary
notwithstanding. (See Declaration of Joshua Webster ISO Mot. ¶¶5-6.). Moreover,
even if the Court were to accept that declaration as evidence, the proposed
sealing of the entire record of this case is by definition not narrowly
tailored. Further still, the proposed alternative offered by Plaintiff of
proceeding under a pseudonym plainly demonstrates that a less-restrictive means
exists to achieve the interest asserted by Plaintiff. On this record, the facts
do not establish that an order sealing the record is the appropriate remedy. 
 
Proceeding
Under Pseudonym
 
            Plaintiff
requests, in the alternative, to proceed with what remains of the matter under
a pseudonym. 
In 2022, the Court of Appeal held
that the overriding interest test, described in NBC Subsidiary (KNBC-TV)
Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1178 with respect to sealing the
record and codified in the Rules of Court discussed above, is equally
applicable to a request for anonymity. (Department of Fair Employment and
Housing v. Superior Court of Santa Clara County (2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 105,
111.) 
 
Here, there has been a failure of
proof because Plaintiff has not presented admissible evidence from an
individual with personal knowledge of the risk to Plaintiff arising from the
case proceeding under her own name. Had such evidence been provided, the Court
would be inclined to find that the risk of Plaintiff suffering irreparable
damage to her career prospects and reputation overcomes the right of public
access to the records bearing Plaintiff’s true name. The Court also finds that
the proposed relief is narrowly tailored: while proceeding under a pseudonym
would require refiling of all documents bearing Plaintiff’s name to replace
that name with a pseudonym and sealing of the original documents (see Motion
pp. 8:19-10:2), the practical effect of that relief would maintain the right of
public access to the substance of the records. Finally, the Court finds that
there is no less restrictive means of achieving the overriding interest, as the
only other remedy would be to seal the records outright, as discussed above. 
 
In acknowledgement of the
stipulation by the parties to sealing of the record or proceeding under a
pseudonym and the defects in the motion arising from a failure of proof, the
Court will grant the alternative motion to proceed under a pseudonym
conditioned on a supplemental declaration from Plaintiff setting forth the
matters that are uniquely within her personal knowledge. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Seal is DENIED.
 
            Plaintiff’s
alternative Motion to Proceed Under Pseudonym is GRANTED conditioned on
Plaintiff herself filing a declaration setting forth the matters that are
uniquely within her personal knowledge, as outlined herein. Plaintiff’s
supplemental declaration shall be filed and served on or before Friday July 19,
2024. 
 
            The
Court sets a Non-Appearance Case Review for Wednesday, July 24, 2024, at 8:30
AM, at which time the Court will review the supplemental filings and determine
whether the conditions of the Court’s ruling have been satisfied. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  July 5, 2024                            ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 