  Case Number:  20STCV30438    Hearing Date:   August 19, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER DENYING MOTION BY PLAINTIFF ANTHONY ADEFUYE TO SET ASIDE/VACATE JUDGMENTI.        INTRODUCTION
          On August 11, 2020, Plaintiff Anthony Adefuye (“Plaintiff”)
filed this action against Defendant Cabo Cantina LLC (“Cabo Cantina”) alleging
he sustained injuries when he was attacked by a security guard. On March 2,
2023, Plaintiff filed the operative Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) asserting
causes of action for negligence, assault and battery, intentional infliction of
emotional distress (“IIED”), and premises liability against Cabo Cantina, Sunset
26, LLC, Cabo Cantina L.A., LLC, Southwest Traffic Corp., CC HLWD LLC, RMG
Sunset Inc., Milton Zampelli, Bohdan Nalepa, and Michael Bezerra (except as to
the fourth cause of action for premises liability). Cross-complaints were filed
but later dismissed.
          On January 18, 2024, following a non-jury trial, the Court
granted the motion for non-suit as to Defendants Michael Bezerra, Milton
Zampelli, and Sunset 26 LLC. The Court also granted the motion for judgment per
Code of Civil Procedure section 631.8 for Defendants Cabo Cantina, Southwest
Traffic Corp., and Bohdan Nalepa. On February 27, 2024, judgment was entered in
favor of CC HLWD LLC (dba Cabo Cantina), Cabo Cantina L.A., LLC, RMG Sunset
Inc, Michael Bezerra, Milton Zampelli, Sunset 26 LLC, Southwest Traffic Corp., and
Bohdan Nalepa, and against Plaintiff.
          Before the Court is a motion to set aside/vacate judgment.
Because the motion was not properly served, the motion is denied.
 
II.      LEGAL
STANDARD
Code Civ. Proc. §473(b) provides that the court “may,
upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a
copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise
the application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time, in no
case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding
was taken.” Bolding added.
“The policy of the law favors a hearing on the
merits. (Citation.) Therefore, when a party in default moves promptly to
request relief, ‘very slight evidence is required to justify a trial court's
order setting aside a default. [Citation.]’ (Ibid.)” Purdum v. Holmes
(2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 916, 922.
 
          III.     DISCUSSION
          On February 27,
2024, judgment was entered against Plaintiff and in favor of CC HLWD LLC (dba
Cabo Cantina), Cabo Cantina L.A., LLC, RMG Sunset Inc, Michael Bezerra, Milton
Zampelli, Sunset 26 LLC, Southwest Traffic Corp., and Bohdan Nalepa, following
a non-jury trial from January 16, 2024 to January 18, 2024. Plaintiff seeks to
set aside this judgment on the grounds that Plaintiff mistakenly thought the
Court appointed him counsel, namely Mr. Anthony D. Ross and/or Ms. Laurie
Stayton, during the trial of this action.  This Court presided over this trial and finds
these assertions factually baseless and utterly implausible, as the reporter’s
transcript undoubtedly reflects. 
Plaintiff acted as his own attorney at every stage of the proceedings
while Ms. Stayton and Mr. Ross represented defendants.  This was abundantly clear from the first day
of trial.
Regardless,
the Court finds multiple procedural deficiencies with this motion.  First, the proof of service Plaintiff
provided indicates that he served this motion himself on counsel for the other
Defendants. (Motion, p. 19 of pdf.) Parties are not allowed to serve documents
directly on other parties. (Cf. Caldwell v. Coppola (1990) 219
Cal.App.3d 859, 865 [parties not permitted to directly effect service of
process on other parties].) Given the lack of opposition to this motion from the
other Defendants, the Court infers that Plaintiff did not properly serve them.
          Second, the motion is untimely. Plaintiff filed the motion
on July 25, 2024. The deadline for Plaintiff to have electronically served this
motion was July 24, 2024, based on the August 19, 2024 hearing date. (CCP §
1005(b); Id., § 1010.6(a)(3)(B); CRC 3.1300(d).)
          
IV.     CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
          Plaintiff’s motion to set aside/vacate judgment is denied.
 
Dated:  August 19, 2024                                                       
                                                                                JARED D. MOSES                                                                                                                        JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT