 Case Number:  22SMCV01269    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  I The motion to compel is CONTINUED to the hearing date on the
motion to compel the turnover of plaintiff’s phone, which is February 20, 2024
at 9:00 am.  
This is a breach of contract case.  Plaintiff, who’s employment was terminated,
claims that there exists a severance agreement that entitled plaintiff to
substantial benefits.  When those
benefits were not received, plaintiff sued. 
The instant issue involves that alleged agreement.
Plaintiff claims that he has no access to the agreement
because it was provided to him electronically and he signed it electronically
using DocuSign but never retained a copy. 
After employment was terminated, plaintiff lacked access to the
workplace computer, and thus asserts he does not have the original.  However, plaintiff claims not to have been
worried because plaintiff knew defendant had a copy and would produce it in due
course.
In the meantime, plaintiff was in contact with another
terminated employee, Ms. Jordan.  Jordan
apparently gave to plaintiff what she claimed was a copy of the severance
agreement.  However, as it turns out,
that letter has an improper DocuSign signature. 
Apparently DocuSign has a way of tracking when a signature was affixed
to a document, and the signature here was not correct.  That led defense counsel to confront
plaintiff with another copy of the severance agreement from defendant’s
archives (it was allegedly not in the personnel file) and also the one
plaintiff had and demand an explanation for the different DocuSign
signatures.  But wait, there’s more.  The day before defendant’s CEO was to be
deposed, a startling revelation occurred. 
Defendant now claims that the CEO’s DocuSign was forged; that is, the
CEO never actually signed the document at all and the whole thing—apparently
including the one in defendant’s files—is a fake.
In the meantime, defendant contended that it wanted to
examine plaintiff’s cell phone not only for this, but also because defendant
believed plaintiff had taken other materials from the company.  Given the obvious privacy concerns, plaintiff
objected.  At an informal discovery
conference with the court, the parties agreed to allow an independent forensic
examiner to look at the phone.  Plaintiff
would be able to choose the forensic examiner and the parties would agree on
the parameters of what could be shared with the defense.  That protocol would protect plaintiff from
improper snooping by the defense into the presumptively large amount of private
material on the cell phone.  However,
after defendant claimed that the whole letter was a fake, plaintiff thought
better of the deal and has now refused to go forward.  Defendant seeks sanctions.
This is quite troubling. 
First, the court is not sure that plaintiff’s explanations, which have
been given more than once, and counsel’s explanations of the letter are even
consistent.  That is a problem.  If plaintiff has been submitting or advancing
a case based on a document he knows to be false, there are significant
problems.  On the other hand, defendant’s
conduct is odd.  If the CEO never signed
these letters, one would have thought that would have been raised right away.  The first thing the CEO would have said to
counsel and then in court would have been “I never signed that letter.”  But that is not what happened.  Indeed, for a while (if the court has it
right) defendant was not taking the position that the whole letter was a
fake—just that the copy plaintiff produced (having apparently come from another
terminated employee) was a fake.  It was
only just before the CEO’s deposition that the forgery issue was suddenly
raised.  If there is no forgery here,
then the defense has a serious problem.
As to the matter at hand, plaintiff ought to realize that
whatever his rights might or might not have been had the discovery issue been
litigated, by reaching an agreement with the defense during an IDC that
agreement will be enforced absent a good reason to back away from it.  And distrust of the other side or anger is
not enough.  Had the matter been
litigated, it could be that plaintiff would have won the motion and the cell phone
would not be examined.  Or plaintiff
might have lost the motion and it could have been that the defendant would be
in control of the forensic examiner without as many protections for plaintiff’s
privacy.  A compromise was reached and
generally they are enforced.  Plaintiff
might also want to consider whether this is a good thing for him.  If things are as plaintiff claims, the
examination of the cell phone might well prove that what plaintiff said about
the issue is correct.  That takes at
least some of the wind out of the defendant’s sails.  Further, if the examination does not prove
that what defendant says is correct (which plaintiff presumably is sure it
won’t), then the defense will need to consider how it is going to respond to a
similar request from plaintiff to examine defendant’s electronically stored
records—a much bigger and more invasive undertaking. 
And the bottom line is that at least one party is committing
perjury—and of the type that gets referred to the DA.  This is not an errant statement buried in a
declaration that is the result of an oversight. 
This is a deliberate attempt either by plaintiff to mislead the court
with forged evidence or by defendant to destroy evidence that would prove
plaintiff’s case and lie about it by painting plaintiff as the felon.  Either way, it is pretty serious stuff. 
That is something both sides must consider.  And, frankly, the court wonders whether
DocuSign—the company—will hold the answer to the question.  The court suspects that DocuSign the company
has ways to track what was signed and when. 
It could be that a subpoena to that entity—calling for documents and
perhaps testimony—will yield the answer.
For now, though, the matter will be continued until the
motion to compel the examination, which is set for February 20, 2023, at 9:00
am.  The court is hopeful that counsel
for both parties will talk to one another and try and see just how far down
this path they collectively want to go. 
The court seriously hopes that this moots itself out.