 Case Number:  22STCV33121    Hearing Date:   September 23, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION
Hearing Date: 9/23/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV33121 LAUREN BERINA vs SHARI
COHEN
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION IS DENIED
 
On May 28, 2024, the Court heard and granted Defendant
Cohen’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s deposition and imposed monetary sanction
of $940.00 against Plaintiff and her attorney of record. On June 3, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a motion for reconsideration, citing a clerical error that
prevented the Court from examining Plaintiff's opposition in the form of
Plaintiff's counsel's declaration before rendering its May 28, 2024, decision.
Therefore, Plaintiff moves the Court to reconsider its order for sanctions.
In the declaration in question Plaintiff argued that
sanctions should not be imposed against Plaintiff and her counsel because
Plaintiff’s availability for a deposition was provided to Defendant on March
24, 2024. However, the Court finds that the declaration is immaterial to its
decision. As indicated in the Court’s May 28, 2024, minute order, Defendant
attempted to obtain Plaintiff’s deposition since May 2, 2023. It was only after
the motion was filed on April 19, 2024, that Plaintiff provided deposition
dates, a year later.
The Court found that Plaintiff did not act with
substantial justification prior to the filing of the motion, and the
declaration at issue does not alter this finding. Although Plaintiff may have
provided her availability, this occurred only after a motion was filed.
Sanctions were ordered in part to compensate Defendant for the attorney's fees
expended to file the present motion, which, based on the sequence of events,
seemed necessary to obtain Plaintiff’s deposition. On that basis, the Court
denies the present motion.  
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case
number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the
parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral
argument. You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the
Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the
order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court
may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 