 Case Number:  22STCV29393    Hearing Date:   September 23, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION 
Hearing Date: 9/23/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV29393 ROBERTO CORONA
vs COMPTON UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT, et al. 
Moving Party: Defendant Compton Unified School
District¿ 
Responding Party: Unopposed 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION IS GRANTED¿ 
 
Legal Standard
 
CCP § 2020.010 permits discovery of non-party
witnesses through oral and written depositions. (See CCP § 2020.010(a)(1), (2);
Hawkins v. TACA International Airlines, S.A. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 466,
476.) A deposition subpoena may command the attendance and testimony of the
deponent, the production of business records, or both. (CCP § 2020.020.)
Additional requirements regarding notification and a right to object are in place
where the records sought are consumer records, including personal medical
records. (See CCP § 1985.3.)
 
Two provisions in the Code of Civil Procedure
govern motions to compel responses to deposition subpoenas. CCP § 1987.1
provides that “[i]f a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the
production of books, documents, electronically stored information, or other
things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of
a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by [a party or a witness]
. . . may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing
compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare,
including protective orders.”
 
CCP § 2025.480(a) similarly provides that
“[i]f a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any document,
electronically stored information,¿or
tangible thing under the deponent's control that is specified in the deposition
notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court
for an order compelling that answer or production.” Unlike CCP § 1987.1, CCP §
2025.480 also includes a time limit (“[t]his motion shall be made no later than
60 days after the completion of the record of the deposition”) and a meet and
confer requirement (“[t]his motion . . . shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040”). (CCP § 2025.480(b).) Finally, CCP
§ 2025.480(c) requires that notice of the motion be given to all parties and to
the deponent.
 
Discussion
 
On May 7, 2024, Defendant Compton Unified
School District personally served a Deposition Subpoena on witness Yair Morales
for a deposition scheduled for May 20, 2024. On May 13, 2024, Defendant spoke
with Yair Morales and confirmed his attendance. Mr. Morales did not object to
his deposition. However, he failed to attend the scheduled deposition.
Defendant then attempted to contact Mr. Morales via phone, text, and email but
received no responses.
 
On July 30, 2024, the Court denied Defendant’s
motion to compel on procedural grounds without prejudice.  Specifically, the Court found that the motion
was not personally served, and there was no indication that Mr. Morales agreed
to accept service by mail or electronic service. 
 
On August 2, 2024, Defendant renewed its
motion, and this time the proof of service showed that the motion was
personally served on Yair Morales. Furthermore, all other requirements to
compel compliance with the subpoena have been met. Defendant attached a
declaration showing that despite previous communications, Morales did not
appear at his scheduled deposition, and subsequent attempts to meet and confer
were unsuccessful, therefore fulfilling the meet and confer requirement. The
deposition subpoena was also personally served on the deponent (Exhibit 1). All
requirements to compel Morales's deposition have been met. Plaintiff did not
file an opposition.
Accordingly, Morales is ordered to sit for his
deposition within 20 days of today. 
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:¿ 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion. 
 
 