 Case Number:  22STCV24225    Hearing Date:   September 23, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO INTERVENE 
Hearing Date: 9/23/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV24225 PATRICK RAYFIELD
vs SAFEWAY INC. 
Moving Party: Non-Party Traveler’s Insurance
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION FOR LEAVE TO INTERVENE IS GRANTED. 
 
On August
27, 2024, Traveler’s Insurance brought its motion to intervene in this action. 
 
Legal Standard
Per CCP §387(a),
permissive intervention is proper if: the nonparty has a direct and immediate interest
in the litigation; the intervention will not enlarge the issues in the case;
and the reasons for intervention outweigh any opposition by the existing
parties. 
A liability insurer
normally cannot intervene in a tort action against its insured. The judgment in
the tort action collaterally estops the insurer only on issues necessarily
adjudicated therein—i.e., the insured's liability and the amount of the
injured party's damages. It does not bind the insurer on coverage issues. (Western
Heritage Ins. Co. v. Sup.Ct. (Parks) (2011) 199 CA4th 1196, 1212.) 
However, because a
liability insurer agrees to pay any judgment obtained against its insured (see
Ins. Code §11580(b)(2)), it has the right to intervene (not merely permissive)
where an insured is barred from defending itself. In such cases, intervention
is necessary to protect the insurer's own interests because it may be obligated
to pay any judgment rendered against its insured. (Reliance Ins. Co. v.
Sup.Ct. (Wells) (2000) 84 CA4th 383, 386–387.)
Discussion
This case arises from
Plaintiff allegedly tripping over a U-boat cart/stock cart at a
Pavilions/Safeway grocery store. On August 1, 2022, Plaintiff amended the
complaint to Doe in Jyve Corporation. Defendant Jyve has an insurance policy
with Travelers Property Casualty Company of American that covered the alleged
incident.  
Jyve is currently out
of business, as confirmed by the California Secretary of State's public
business records listing its status as terminated. Jyve’s CEO has also recently
declined to participate in this lawsuit, and no communication has been received
from its other officers.
Travelers Insurance
holds a direct and immediate interest under “Section 11580,” which allows a
judgment creditor to proceed directly against a defendant’s liability insurance
to obtain satisfaction of the judgment up to the policy limits. Therefore, intervention
by the insurer is justified if a judgment creditor has obtained or will obtain
a default judgment in a third-party action against the insured (Jade K. v.
Viguri (1989) 210 Cal.App.3d 1459, 1468).
The request for leave
to intervene is also timely. In 2023, Travelers’ adjuster established contact
with Jyve’s CEO, Bradford Oberwager. However, Oberwager recently informed Mr.
Sandhu, the attorney for Travelers, of his unwillingness to participate in the
defense of the present case. Mr. Sandhu has made efforts to contact Jyve’s
former officers and/or employees in the defense of this action, but these have
been unsuccessful. Travelers filed the motion to intervene shortly thereafter.
No opposition to this motion has been filed, and no prejudice to other parties
has been alleged.
Thus, the court grants
the present motion to intervene.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.
 