  Case Number:  19STCV24378    Hearing Date:   September 23, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSTION 
Hearing Date: 9/23/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 19STCV24378 TODD DEIDEL vs
UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY, A CORPORATION  
Moving Party: Plaintiff¿ 
Responding Party: Defendant Union Pacific 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSTION IS DENIED 
Background 
This action is brought under the Federal
Employers Liability Act (“FELA”) for a cervical spine injury that Plaintiff
Todd Deidel sustained while operating equipment on Defendant Union Pacific’s
yard track during the course of his employment with the railroad. Plaintiff
alleges that the equipment he was operating derailed due to defects in the rail
in the yard that Defendant was responsible for maintaining.
On May 3, 2024, Plaintiff noticed the
depositions of: 
1.  Jeff Cole, Plaintiff’s supervisor to whom
Plaintiff attempted to report the incident; 
2.  Jordan Morgan, Jeff Cole’s manager; and 
3.  The PMQ(s) from Union Pacific regarding
various testimony on training and track inspection and maintenance. 
The depositions were scheduled to occur on May
17, 2024, and May 21, 2024. On May 10, 2024, Defendant served objections to the
deposition notices. Plaintiff now moves to compel Defendant’s employees and PMQ
depositions. 
 
Legal Standard¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
Any party may obtain any discovery
of information, documents, land, property, or electronically stored information
so long as the discoverable matter is not privileged, is relevant to the
subject matter and can lead one to admissible evidence.¿(Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) 
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450¿provides in pertinent part the
following: 
 
“(a) If, after service of a
deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing
agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that
is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection
under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it,
or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the
notice may move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance and
testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice. 
¿¿¿¿ 
(b) A motion under subdivision (a)
shall comply with both of the following: 
¿¿ 
(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice. 
¿ 
(2) The motion shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040 or, when the
deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance. 
 
Analysis
 
Defendant served timely and written objections
to the depositions on May 10, 2024, stating that the depositions were
unilaterally noticed without input regarding the deponents or Defendant
counsel’s availability. Given Defendant’s valid objection, Plaintiff is
required to meet and confer with Defendant’s counsel. However, Plaintiff
counsel’s declaration did not show that there were any meet and confer efforts,
as the exhibits that purportedly show such efforts were not attached to the
motion. The Court, therefore, cannot assess whether Plaintiff has met the meet
and confer requirement prior to filing the motion.
 
Furthermore, the motion did not demonstrate
good cause for the documents requested. Although Plaintiff argues that good
cause exists for the deposition itself, the statute specifically requires a
showing of good cause justifying the production of documents for inspection.
(CCP 2025.450 (b)(1).) Plaintiff has not met this burden. The argument for good
cause related to the deposition does not automatically extend to the production
of documents.
 
Although discovery is currently open and
Plaintiff is entitled to take Defendant’s PMQ deposition and depositions of
Plaintiff’s supervisors, the motion is procedurally flawed and therefore is
denied without prejudice.[1]
 
The Court strongly encourages the parties to
meet and confer and schedule the requested depositions without the need for
further court intervention.
 
 
 
 PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:  
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed
by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion. 
 
 


