 Case Number:  22STCV07787    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  T Motion for Summary JudgementMoving Party: Defendant City of San FernandoResponding Party: Plaintiff Josefina MartinezTentative Ruling: DENYBACKGROUND This is a trip and fall case in which Plaintiff tripped over a sidewalk uplift owned by Defendant and alleges a dangerous condition of public property. Plaintiff’s government claim alleges that the uneven/raised pavement on the sidewalk created a dangerous condition, that Defendant manages and maintains the area where Plaintiff was injured, that Defendant had actual or constructive knowledge of the condition and failed to take measures to warn or remedy the condition to protect pedestrians. (Defendant’s Appendix of Evidence in Support of Motion for Summary Judgment, p. 9.)MOVING PARTY POSITION Defendant argues it is entitled to summary judgment because the alleged dangerous condition constitutes a trivial defect. Moreover, Defendant argues Plaintiff is precluded from arguing a dangerous condition existed based on poor lighting conditions because Plaintiff failed to make any such allegations in her government claim or complaint. (Reply p. 4.) Defendant alternatively argues it had no actual or constructive notice of the alleged dangerous condition, and that the condition was open and obvious and could have been avoided by Plaintiff. (Motion for Summary Judgement p. 8.)OPPOSITION Plaintiff argues that evidence shows a triable issue on whether the condition was dangerous or trivial. Plaintiff also argues Defendant had actual and constructive notice of the dangerous condition, and that the condition was not open, obvious, or avoidable.REPLYDefendant argues Plaintiff failed to meet the burden of showing any triable issues of material fact and “improperly attempts to dispute her own admissions, or fails to set forth any evidence which actually creates a factual dispute.” (Reply p. 4.) ANALYSIS I. Evidentiary Objections Defendant submits a total of 11 objections to the Declarations of Plaintiff Josefina Martinez, Fernando Gomez, as well as Philip Rosescu and accompanying exhibits.Sustained: No. 5 (not qualified.)Overruled: Nos. 1-4, 6-11.II. Summary JudgementSummary judgment is proper “if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  The moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment must show either (1) that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be established or (2) that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant may discharge this burden by furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required facts or (2) discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to establish an essential element of the plaintiff's case.  The elements of a cause of action for premises liability are the same as those for negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages.” (Castellon v. U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998 (citing Ortega v. Kmart Corp. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200, 1205; Civil Code § 1714(a)).) To impose liability on a property owner for a dangerous condition, the owner must have either actual or constructive knowledge of the dangerous condition or have been able to discover the condition by the exercise of ordinary care. (See Ortega, supra, 26 Cal.4th at 1206.) An owner is charged with constructive knowledge of the existence of a dangerous condition if the condition was present for a sufficient period. (See id.) “Whether a dangerous condition has existed long enough for a reasonably prudent person to have discovered it is a question of fact for the jury.” (Id. at 1207.)  To establish premises liability, plaintiff must prove that the defendant breached a duty of care owed to the plaintiff that proximately caused injury and damages. “Those who own, possess, or control property generally have a duty to exercise ordinary care in managing the property in order to avoid exposing others to an unreasonable risk of harm.” (Annocki v. Peterson Enterprises, LLC (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32, 37.)  A. Trivial Defect Defendant here fails to meet its initial burden of making a prima facie showing that the condition constituted a trivial defect and not a dangerous condition. “The existence of a dangerous condition is ordinarily a question of fact—resolved here by the jury's express finding that the [sidewalk] was a dangerous condition of [public] property—but it can be decided as a matter of law if reasonable minds can come to only one conclusion.” (Stack v. City of Lemoore (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 102, 110.) While Defendant provides several cases  in which courts have found analogous height differences in sidewalks constitute trivial defects, California does not use a tape measure test and considers the totality of the circumstances. (Lechler v. City of San Francisco (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 523.) Thus, Defendant must make a prima facie showing that reasonable minds—considering the totality of the circumstances—could only arrive at one conclusion. Here, the Court finds that Defendant’s evidence in Plaintiff’s admissions that nothing blocked her view of the sidewalk uplift, that the weather conditions were clear, and that she walked by the same location three times per week, is not sufficient to show that the condition was open and obvious. (Motion for Summary Judgement, p. 11.) While Defendant provides evidence weighing in favor of a trivial defect, the picture of the condition provides ambiguity as to whether the condition is trivial. Because reasonable minds may consider the picture and disagree as to whether it is a dangerous condition, the Court concludes Defendant here has not made a prima facie showing that the condition is not dangerous.Nevertheless, Plaintiff provides admissible evidence showing a triable issue exists on whether the condition is dangerous. Namely, Plaintiff provides an expert declaration of Mr. Rosescu, stating that “any vertical displacement in excess of 0.55” can cause a trip to the average pedestrian, and that the height differential in this case was high enough to cause a trip but low enough that it would not be obvious. (Decl. Rosescu ¶ 9-10.) Because Plaintiff provides admissible evidence that the subject lift was measured between 11/16 and 1.5 inches, Plaintiff provides evidence sufficient to potentially find the condition was dangerous and not trivial. B. Notice Defendant here does meet its burden of making a prima facie showing that it lacked notice of the condition. Specifically, Defendant provides admissible evidence that no reported incidents have occurred in that area within the past ten years, supporting the inference that Defendant did not have notice of the uplifted sidewalk in this case. (Declaration of Public Works Operations Manager Rodrigo Mora.) The burden thus shifts to Plaintiff to establish a triable issue exists that Defendant had notice.Plaintiff has also met her burden to show a triable issue exists on the issue of notice. Constructive notice can be established if the condition existed long enough that it may be inferred a reasonable inspection would have ascertained its existence. (Gentekos v. City and County of San Francisco (1958) 163 Cal.App.2d 691); (see also, (Ortega v. Kmart Corp. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200) (acknowledging that notice of a dangerous condition may be inferred from a failure to inspect within a reasonable period of time.) Here, Mr. Rosescu’s declaration raises a triable issues of fact over whether Defendant’s inspection system was inadequate and whether it would have discovered the dangerous condition and fixed it prior to the incident if it had employed a reasonable inspection system. (Decl. Rosescu ¶ 6-12). Mr. Rosescu’s declaration provides an evidentiary basis suggesting that the hazard “has existed for multiple years prior to the incident and should have been spotted, reported, and repaired by Defendant employees.” (Id. ¶ 12.) The Court therefore finds Plaintiff met her burden of showing a triable issue exists as to whether Defendant had constructive notice of the defect. C. Open and Obvious Defendant fails to satisfy its burden of making a prima facie showing that the condition was open and obvious. A city can make a prima facie showing that a condition was open and obvious based on the plaintiff's admissions that the weather was clear and that she had previously walked in the area. The relevant case law supports the notion that a plaintiff's familiarity with the area and the visibility of the defect are significant factors in determining whether a condition is open and obvious. For instance, in Stack v. City of Lemoore, the court noted that the defect in the sidewalk was open and obvious where its existence was common knowledge in the community and known to plaintiff herself, who tripped over the defect in the daytime while walking toward the exposed side of the rise without anything obstructing her vision. (Stack v. City of Lemoore (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 102.). The court’s finding suggests that a city may make a prima facie showing that a defect is open and obvious where the plaintiff had prior knowledge and where there are no obstructions to visibility. (Stack v. City of Lemoore (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 102.) Here, Defendant’s evidence of Plaintiff’s admissions that nothing blocked her view of the sidewalk uplift, that the weather conditions were clear, and that she walked by the same location three times per week, is not sufficient to show that the condition was open and obvious. (Motion for Summary Judgement, p. 11.) Defendant’s evidence, while directly supporting that Plaintiff’s view was not obstructed, fails to make a direct prima facie showing of Plaintiff’s prior awareness of the dangerous condition. Rather, Defendant’s evidence merely suggests the possibility that Plaintiff, by walking in the area, could have had prior awareness of the condition. As a result, reasonable minds may disagree on the open and obvious nature of the alleged dangerous condition.Even assuming Defendant met its burden to make a prima facie showing, Plaintiff nevertheless shows a triable issue exists. Plaintiff does so through admissible evidence in Plaintiff’s expert declaration, wherein Mr. Rosescu asserts that the uplift could be difficult to perceive for typical pedestrians. (Rosescu Decl., ¶ 10.) Even disregarding Plaintiff’s evidence that the area was dark, the Rosescu declaration nevertheless establishes a sufficient evidentiary basis to raise a triable issue of fact as to whether the defect was open and obvious. (Id.)RULING Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion for summary judgement is DENIED.