  Case Number:  20STCV38741    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  T Motion for New TrialMoving Party: Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority Responding Party: Plaintiff Juan Andres Espinoza Torres Tentative Ruling: DENYBACKGROUNDThis is a personal injury case arising from Plaintiff’s motorcycle collision with a pickup truck driven by a LACMTA employee. The jury returned a verdict in favor of Plaintiff and awarded $750,000 solely for past and future noneconomic damages. At trial, there was evidence admitted about Plaintiff's medical expenses, but Plaintiff waived economic damages before resting his case. At trial, Defendant intended to present body camera video of the accident scene interview of Jacqueline Newell, but the Court sustained Plaintiff’s objection to playing the video to the jury.MOVING PARTY POSITIONDefendant argues the verdict is contrary to the weight of the evidence and indicates juror passion and prejudice — reflected by excessive damages awards and a grossly disproportionate 100% fault allocation against Defendant. (Motion for New Trial, p. 13.) Defendant also asserts Plaintiff's attorney engaged in misconduct by examining witnesses and offering into evidence medical expenses only to waive special damages prior to resting his case. (Id. at 16.) Defendant further argues the Court abused its discretion by sustaining an objection to admitting into evidence the body camera video of witness Jacqueline Newall. (Id. at 17.)OPPOSITIONPlaintiff argues that evidence of Plaintiff’s past injuries and pain and suffering justified the jury’s general damages verdict whereas evidence of the reasonable medical certainty of future arthritis and surgery justified the jury’s verdict of future general damages. Plaintiff further denies any misconduct, and argues that the Court’s exclusion of witness video was not an abuse of discretion. (Opposition, p. 8.)REPLYDefendant maintains none of Plaintiff’s injuries support the verdict awarded by the jury, that Plaintiff’s attorney’s trial tactic was designed to prejudice the jury against it, and that Plaintiff’s comparative negligence should have been part of the verdict. (Reply, p. 4.)ANALYSISA motion for new trial is a creature of statute; . . .” (Neal v. Montgomery Elevator Co.¿(1992) 7 Cal. App. 4th 1194, 1198.) A movant must satisfy Code of Civil Procedure sections 657 and 659. Under Code of Civil Procedure section 657, a motion for new trial may be granted if there is any:¿[¶] 1. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury, or adverse party, or any order of the court or abuse of discretion by which either party was prevented from having a fair trial. [¶] 2. Misconduct of the jury; and whenever any one or more of the jurors have been induced to assent to any general or special verdict, or to a finding on any question submitted to them by the court, by a resort to the determination of chance, such misconduct may be proved by the affidavit of any one of the jurors. [¶] 3. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not have guarded against. [¶] … [¶] 5. Excessive or inadequate damages. [¶] 6. Insufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict or other decision, or the verdict or other decision is against law. [¶] 7. Error in law, occurring at the trial and excepted to by the party making the application.¿¿¿(Code Civ. Proc., section 657.)¿¿¿Granting a new trial is not appropriate in this case, as Defendant fails to show an excessive verdict, that liability was improperly determined, or an error by the Court committed error.DamagesWith respect to the damages award, Seffert v. Los Angeles Transit Lines (1961) 45 Cal.2d 498, is instructive here, as the Supreme Court notes that “[t]he amount to be awarded is ‘a matter on which there legitimately may be a wide difference of opinion.’” (Seffert at 508.) Moreover, the Seffert emphasizes that verdicts should not be disturbed “unless it is so grossly disproportionate to any reasonable limit of compensation warranted by the facts that it shocks the court’s sense of justice and raises a presumption that it was the result of passion and prejudice.” (Id.) Here, there was credible testimony by Plaintiff and his wife regarding Plaintiff’s past physical pain, mental suffering, physical impairment, inconvenience, and emotional distress.  Plaintiff underwent a surgery and rehabilitation and there was credible testimony that Plaintiff was likely to have a lifetime of physical limitations and would need for future surgical intervention.  Accordingly, there was credible evidence supporting a finding that Plaintiff would suffer future physical pain, mental suffering, physical impairment, inconvenience, and emotional distress.  While the jury’s damages award might be described as generous, the Court does not find that the award is grossly disproportionate to the evidence, nor does it shock the Court’s sense of justice or raise a presumption that the award was a result of passion or prejudice.  Accordingly, the Court finds that there is no basis under Seffert to disturb the jury’s verdict.  Comparative FaultSimilarly, there was credible evidence to support the finding that Plaintiff was not comparatively at fault.  While Plaintiff testified that he was aware of the dangers of riding a motorcycle in another vehicle’s blind spot, the fact that Plaintiff was briefly in what was described as “the kill zone” alone does not necessarily require a finding of comparative fault.  Defense expert Edward Milich testified regarding the protective gear that he believed was required to be reasonably careful when riding a motorcycle.  However, on cross-examination, he admitted that many riders do not ride with the gear he recommended.  The jury was free to use their common experience and reject Mr. Milich’s opinion regarding the standard of care for motorcycle riders.  Attorney MisconductHere, Plaintiff withdrew his claims for past and future medical expenses after Dr. Babak Samimi testified about Plaintiff’s past medical treatment and his opinions about Plaintiff’s future medical needs.  As noted in the Opposition, parties are free to pursue or dismiss liability and damages theories at any point in the case.  As such, the fact that Plaintiff dismissed his economic damages claims is not, in and of itself, evidence of misconduct.  In addition, because the Court was unexpectedly shut down due to a ransomware attack, Plaintiff’s counsel informed the Court that Plaintiff’s medical billing expert was not available to testify as planned.  While alternative arrangements might have been made, in light of the unexpected scheduling issues, there is evidence to support that Plaintiff’s withdrawal of his economic damages claim was not nefarious.  Further, assuming arguendo that there was any potential irregularity in the proceedings, the Court specifically instructed the jury not to consider any medical expenses in calculating their damages award.  Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that there was no attorney misconduct and that any irregularity in the proceedings was addressed by an appropriate jury instruction.Exclusion of the Newell VideoThe Court additionally finds it did not abuse its discretion by sustaining Plaintiff’s objection and withholding the Newell video interview from entering evidence. Courts have discretion to exclude evidence if it risks confusing or misleading a jury.  California Evidence Code Section 352 empowers courts to exclude evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will create a substantial danger of undue prejudice, confusing the issues, or misleading the jury (People v. Anderson (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 851.) The balancing of evidence under this statute is undertaken on a sliding scale, where the more substantial the probative value of the evidence, the greater the danger of one of the excluding factors must be to warrant exclusion (People v. Castaneda-Prado (2023) 94 Cal.App.5th 1260.). The trial court's discretion in this matter is broad and is reviewed for abuse of discretion (Meeks v. Autozone, Inc. (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 855.) The Court here exercised its discretion to exclude the video because it entailed an unjustifiably high risk of confusing the jury. Specifically, the witness failed to provide clear or perceptible statements of fact for the jury to assess and weigh the credibility of. For instance, she fails to state clearly where she was when she allegedly witnessed the incident, how clearly she saw the incident, where each of the vehicles was prior to the collision, or where the collision occurred.  Further, the witness repeatedly offered her opinions about ultimate fault and the dangers of riding motorcycles.  Finally, the Court found that simply editing out the offending statements was not practical.  The Court thus reasoned her statements were so vague that they lacked probative value, posed a significant risk of confusing the jury and exercised its discretion to exclude the video on that basis. (Exh. E to Plaintiff’s Compendium.) RULINGBased on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion for a new trial is DENIED.