 Case Number:  20STCV46504    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  T DemurrerMoving Party: Defendant Geocomp Consulting, Inc.Responding Party: Plaintiff Domingo David Tambriz CucTentative Ruling: Overruled  BACKGROUND This is a personal injury case arising from a May 19, 2020 incident in which Plaintiff alleges that, while riding a bicycle on a public street, a hole in the pavement caused him to fall. (Complaint at ¶ 7, Exhibit “A.”) Plaintiff’s complaint was filed on December 4, 2020, and the amended complaint was filed on May 2, 2024. (Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice, Exhibits “A” and “B”.)MOVING PARTY POSITION Defendant argues the complaint was not served with a certificate of merit as required by CCP § 411.35, and even if Plaintiff were to now file and serve a certificate, it would be untimely. (Demurrer, p. 4.)OPPOSITION Plaintiff argues the Court must override Defendant’s demurrer because Plaintiff is not required to submit a certificate of merit because this is not a professional negligence action. (Opposition, p. 5.) Plaintiff asserts his claim is for general negligence against Defendant arising from an alleged dangerous condition at the location of the subject accident that Defendant shares responsibility for maintaining — and that Plaintiff’s allegations do not implicate Defendant’s duty of reasonable care exclusive to its status as a licensed engineer nor that Defendant did not meet industry standards of the engineering.REPLYDefendant argues that Plaintiff alleges that Defendant’s negligence arises from services pertaining to its vocation and relating to Defendant’s responsibility monitor and maintain the area of the subject incident. (Reply, p. 2.)ANALYSIS I. Judicial Notice As an initial matter, the Court takes judicial notice of the following:• Defendant holds a professional engineering license issued pursuant to Chapter 7 of Division 3 of the Business and Professions Code by the California Board for Professional Engineers, Land Surveyors, and Geologists, License Number 53436, under the name of W. Allen Marr.• Plaintiff’s Complaint. (“Exhibit “A”.)• Plaintiff’s Amendment to Complaint (“Exhibit “B”.)(Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice, p. 2.)II. DemurrerA demurrer is a procedure to object to a pleading set forth under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, et seq.  Because a demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters, a demurrer analysis considers only those defects which appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.  (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.)  When considering demurrers, courts assume the truth of the facts alleged in the pleading and read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1074, 1081.) A demurrer must be denied where the complaint states a cause of action "under any possible legal theory." (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.) The court must “liberally” construe the complaint’s allegations "with a view to substantial justice." (Code Civ. Proc. § 452.) A demurrer for sufficiency attacks a pleading on the ground that it does not contain facts sufficient to state a cause of action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10 (e); Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  Parties may also demur to causes of action individually.  In either case, the procedure is also called a ‘demurrer for sufficiency,’ and it tests the pleading by itself, alone and disconnected from extraneous matters.  (Hahn at p. 747.) Failing to serve a complaint with a certificate of merit in accordance with Code of Civil Procedure § 411.35 can support a demurrer. According to § 430.10(h), a party against whom a complaint has been filed may object by demurrer if no certificate was filed as required by Section 411.35 (West's Ann.Cal.C.C.P. § 430.10.) Section 411.35 (g) explicitly states that the failure to file a certificate in accordance with this section shall be grounds for a demurrer (West's Ann.Cal.C.C.P. § 411.35.) Here, Plaintiff’s complaint does not allege professional negligence. Rather, Plaintiff’s complaint alleges that Defendant engaged in ordinary negligence occurred while “acting within the course and scope of their duties”. (Complaint at ¶ 8.) While this broad language could potentially include allegations of professional negligence, it does not necessarily mean that it does.  Similarly, while Defendant Geocomp Consulting does have a professional license, that does not mean that all work it performs is necessarily under the scope of that license.  As such, a fair reading of Plaintiff’s complaint does not compel a finding that this is an action for professional negligence.  While beyond the scope of the Court’s analysis on a demurrer, this finding is consistent with the testimony in the April 26, 2024 deposition of Mr. Waguespack, who testified the allegedly dangerous condition was created by Defendant Geocomp Consulting when it monitoring well and filled the resulting hole.  This work would normally be characterized as ordinary construction work subject to regular negligence rather than a professional negligence standard. The Court thus finds Plaintiff’s complaint alleges a cause of action for ordinary negligence against Defendant and that Plaintiff is not required to file a certificate of merit. To the extent that a more fulsome factual record establishes that Plaintiff's allegations do indeed fall under the scope of professional negligence, this ruling is without prejudice to Defendant seeking future relief.   RULING Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer is OVERRULED. 