  Case Number:  20SMCV00819    Hearing Date:   June 24, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Yang v. Venice
Business Partners Inc., et al.
CASE NO.:                20SMCV00819
MOTION:                  Motion
to Compel Further Deposition
HEARING DATE:   6/24/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
            In the absence of contrary court
order, a civil litigant’s right to discovery is broad. “[A]ny party may obtain
discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject
matter involved in the pending action . . . if the matter either is itself
admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.” (CCP § 2017.010; see Davies v. Superior Court (1984)
36 Cal.3d 291, 301.)
 
            “If a deponent fails to answer any
question or to produce any document, electronically stored information, or
tangible thing under the deponent's control that is specified in the deposition
notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court
for an order compelling that answer or production." (CCP § 2025.480 (a).)
“If the court determines that the answer or production sought is subject to
discovery, it shall order that the answer be given or the production be made on
the resumption of the deposition.” (CCP § 2025.480(i).) Failure to obey an
order may be considered contempt of court and could subject a party to the
action to issue, evidentiary, or terminating sanctions as well as monetary
sanctions. (CCP § 2025.480(k).)
 
            The only proper basis to instruct a
deponent to not answer a question is an objection based upon a privilege or
manifestly irrelevant questions or questions designed only to harass. (Stewart
v. Colonial Western Agency, Inc. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1015 n. 3; see
also LASC Local Rules, Rule 3.26 Appendix 3.A(e)(9) [“Counsel shall not direct
a deponent to refuse to answer questions unless they seek privileged
information or are manifestly irrelevant or calculated to harass.”].)
 
            Further, a motion to compel further
responses to a demand for inspection or production of documents may be brought
based on: (1) incomplete statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive or
incomplete claims of inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly
generalized objections. (CCP § 2031.310(c).) A motion
for order compelling further responses “shall set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.” (CCP §
2031.310(b)(1).) Absent a claim of privilege or attorney work product, the
moving party meets its burden of showing good cause by a fact-specific showing
of relevance. (Kirkland v. Superior
Court (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 92, 98.) If the moving party has shown
good cause for the RPDs, the burden is on the objecting party to justify the
objections. (Ibid.)  
 
 
Analysis
 

Defendant Venice Business Partners,
Inc. moves to compel Plaintiff Tom Yang to: (1) produce at a resumed deposition
of Yang all documents responsive to requests for production numbers 1-3, 5-14,
and 16-26 contained; (2) re-appear for resumption of the deposition of Yang to
answer questions, without objection except for objections on the basis of
privilege, regarding said responsive documents; or (3) alternatively, if Yang
is not in possession, custody or control of the responsive documents, serve on
Defendant, without any objection, verified written responses to each request pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure sections 2031.230-2031.285. Defendant also seeks
sanctions in the amount of $9,605.00 against Yang and his counsel of record,
Steven M. Garber and Steven M. Garber & Associates, jointly and severally.
 
Request Nos. 1-3
 
Requests Nos. 1-3 pertain to all
documents and communications between Yang and Levine regarding acquisition of any
vehicle outside of the Subject Vehicle, which is a 2018 Mercedes G650 Landaulet
VIN# WDCYC7EF2JX286162. The Court concurs that these requests are not
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Simply
put, any communications or documents pertaining to the parties’ acquisition of
vehicles other than the Subject Vehicle are not relevant to the dispute
concerning the Subject Vehicle. Defendant does not explain how such
transactions would have any bearing on the issues presented in this action. The
Court is therefore not inclined to grant the motion on these requests.
 
Request No. 5
 
This Request seeks documents
evidencing or referring to Yang’s filing of an undertaking of $900,000 pursuant
to the Court’s September 25, 2020, Order for Writ of Possession. Yang objects
on the grounds of relevance and privacy.
 
If there
is a serious invasion of a constitutional right to privacy, the party seeking
the evidence must establish that the information sought is not only essential
and directly relevant, but also that this information could not be discovered
through less intrusive means. (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3
Cal.5th 531, 552.) If there is no serious invasion to a privacy right, the
court must simply balance the right
of privacy against the interest in having just litigation. (Id.; Pioneer
Electronics (USA), Inc. v. Superior Court (2007) 40 Cal.4th 360, 371.)
Personal
financial information comes within the zone of privacy protected by the
California Constitution, Article 1, Section 1. (Valley Bank of Nevada v.
Superior Court (1975) 15 Cal.3d 652, 655-656; see Schnabel v. Superior
Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 704, 712-713 [finding a right to privacy in
confidential customer information in whatever form it takes, including tax
returns, checks, statements, or other account information].) The state's privacy
provision “extends to one's confidential financial affairs as well as to the
details of one's personal life” (Pioneer Electronics (USA), Inc. v. Superior
Court¿(2007) 40 Cal.4th 360, 368.)
 
The Court concurs that this request
is not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
Yang’s filing of an undertaking has no bearing on the substantive legal or
factual issues presented in this action. Instead, Defendant seeks private and
irrelevant financial condition evidence. Since the sought documents are not
essential or directly relevant to the issues in this action, Yang’s privacy and
relevancy objections would be sustained.
 
The Court is therefore not inclined
to grant the motion on this request.
 
Request nos. 6-14
and 16-24
 
            Each of the
cited requests seek documents evidencing certain factual allegations in
the SAC that Levine made certain representations to Plaintiff, or efforts that
Yang took to investigate the truth of such representations. Yang asserts that
these requests are unauthorized contention requests for production, which are
appropriate for interrogatories but not a request for production at deposition.
(Rifkind v. Superior Court (1994) 22 Cal.App.4th 1255, 1259.) 
 
The rule discussed in Rifkind
would not apply to the requests at issue. Rifkin specifically discussed questions
that ask a deponent during deposition to “state all facts, list all witnesses
and identify all documents that support or pertain to a particular contention
in that party’s pleadings.” (Rifkind, supra, 22 Cal.App.4th at p. 1259,
emphasis added.) The Rifkind court reasoned that a lay witness could not
be reasonably expected to answer legal contentions during a deposition, as this
would require a lay person to substantively analyze and apply the laws to the facts
on the fly. (Id. at 1263.) The Rifkin court emphasized that parties
may ask deponents about the basis for, or information about, factual conclusions
or assertions in the complaint, as distinguished from basis for legal
conclusion:
 
We emphasize at the outset what we
are not discussing: questions at a deposition asking the person deposed about
the basis for, or information about, a factual conclusion or assertion, as
distinguished from the basis for a legal conclusion. Thus, if a deponent
says that a certain event happened at a particular time or place, it is quite
proper to ask the person, at deposition, how he or she became aware of it, his
or her knowledge about it, and for similar information of a factual nature.
 
(Id., at 1259, emphasis added.)
 
The questions posed here do not
seek information on Plaintiff’s legal conclusions. Instead, they each ask
Plaintiff for factual information regarding the alleged misrepresentations. For
example, no. 6 requests evidence of Plaintiff’s allegation at paragraph 46,
that Levine represented that “VBP, for several years, was, and will continue to
be, a valid and ongoing business concern.” Request no. 24 seeks documents
evidencing or referring to “any efforts [Yang] took between January 1, 2019,
and March 1, 2020, to investigate the truth of the representations that the
Second Amended Complaint alleges LEVINE made to YANG in October of 2018.”  
 
            Plaintiff
posed no further objections to the notice. As Plaintiff’s sole objection is
without merit, further production is required. 
 
Request nos. 25-26
 
Requests nos. 25-26 seek documents
produced to Yang by Defendants’ banks – Bank of America and JPMorgan Chase
Bank, N.A., pursuant to subpoenas issued by Yang. 
 
Yang does not explain the legal
basis of his objections. Yang apparently concedes that such requests are not
improper, as Yang “has already agreed to ‘turn over copies of the bank
records’”. (Garber Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. 2.) Yang does not state that he has produced
such documents or has been questioned on such documents at deposition. Therefore,
the Court would grant the motion as to these requests.
 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED
as to request nos. 6-14 and 16-26. Plaintiff is ordered to attend a resumed
deposition within 10 days, produce any responsive documents at that deposition,
and answer questions related to the documents without objection except for
objections based on privilege. The parties are ordered to meet and confer on a
mutually agreeable time and date for the resumed deposition. If Yang is not in
possession, custody or control of categories of responsive documents, Plaintiff
must serve on Defendant verified written responses to each request that Yang
lacks the ability to comply with the requests at least 5 days prior to the
resumed deposition. (See CCP §§ 2031.230-2031.285.)
 
SANCTIONS
 
Defendant seeks sanctions in the
amount of $9,605.00 against Yang and his counsel of record, Steven M. Garber
and Steven M. Garber & Associates, jointly and severally. The Court must
sanction any party that unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a
further response, “unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (CCP, § 2025.480(j).) Plaintiff does not demonstrate
that he acted with substantial justification in opposing the motion as to nos.
6-14, 16-26. Therefore, sanctions are mandatory. That said, the motion was only
partially successful. Further, the hours claimed on the motion appear
excessive. Considering the totality of the record, the Court finds that a reasonable sanction
in this instance would be $3,860.00. 
 
Accordingly, the request for sanctions is
GRANTED in the reduced total amount of $3,860.00, inclusive of costs, against
Plaintiff Yang and his counsel of record, Steven M. Garber and
Steven M. Garber & Associates, jointly and severally. Sanctions are to be
paid within 30 days.
 