 Case Number:  23STCV08819    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  26 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26
 



 
KASRA SHAYAN aka SINA MASOUMI,
  
 
                      Plaintiff,
            v.
 
AHMADREZA
  RASTEGARRAZI et al.
                      Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  23STCV08819
 
  Hearing Date:  May 3, 2024 
 
  [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
PLAINTIFF KASRA SHAYAN’S motion to compel THE DEPOSITIONs of
  ahmadreza rastegarrazi, mehre iran today’s pmk, and optima financial
  venture’s pmk, and request for sanctions
 
 



 
Background    
            On April 20, 2023, Plaintiff Kasra
Shayan aka Sina Masoumi (“Shayan”) filed the  Complaint alleging multiple causes of actions
relating to a breach of contract involving a proposed investment venture
against Defendants Ahmadreza Rastegarrazi (a/k/a Arash) Rastegarrazi (“Arash”),
Mehre Iran Today (“Mehre Iran”), and Dani Gonzalez (“Dani”), and Optima
Financial Ventures (‘Optima”).  
            On November 29, 2023, Plaintiff
Shayan filed the instant motion to compel the deposition of Defendants
Ahmadreza Rasetgarrazi, Mehre Iran’s Person Most Knowledgable, and Optima
Financial Ventures’ Person Most Knowledgeable (“PMK”).  The Motion also requests sanctions in the
amount of $4,500.  
Legal
Standard 
Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, if after service of a deposition notice, a
party to the action, without having served a valid objection, fails to appear
for examination, or proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document,
the party giving notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s
attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any
document.  (CCP § 2025.450(a).)  “The motion shall set forth specific facts
showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice.”  (CCP § 2025.450(b)(1).)  Additionally, a motion to compel the
deposition of a party to the action must be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration, or, when the deponent failed to attend the deposition, a
declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire
about the nonappearance.  (CCP § 2025.450(b)(2).)  
Discussion
Motion to Compel Deposition 
On August 9, 2023, Plaintiff Shayan’s
counsel, Fahim Farivar, served Defendant Ahmadreza Rastegarrazi with a Notice
of Deposition.  (Farivar Decl. ¶ 8, Ex.
A.)  On August 9, 2023, Farivar’s office
met and conferred with Defendant’s former Counsel to request that if the
noticed deposition date of September 28, 2023, was not available, then
Defendant’s Counsel was to immediately provide alternate dates for Defendant
Rastegarrazi’s deposition.  (Farivar
Decl. ¶ 9, Ex. B.)  
On September 6, 2023, Defendant’s Counsel
sent Farivar’s office Substitution of Attorney Forms for all Defendants.  (Farivar Decl. ¶ 10, Ex. C.)
On September 12, 2023, Farivar’s office
served Defendants Mehre Iran and Optima Financial Ventures with Notices of
Deposition.  (Farivar Decl. ¶ 11, Exs.
D-E.)
On September 12, 2023, Farviar’s office
emailed Defendant Rastegarrazi to request that if the deposition dates for
Optima Financial Ventures and Mehre Iran’s PMKs were not acceptable, they
should provide dates of availability in October.  (Farivar Decl. ¶ 12, Ex. F.)  Farivar’s office did not receive any dates
for availability.  Id. 
On
September 12, 2023, Defendant Ahmadreza Rastegarrazi emailed Farivar’s office
stating that he was not permitted to participate in any deposition on behalf of
himself, noting that he could not appear for a deposition as he has a pending
criminal case.  (Farivar Decl. ¶
14, Ex. H.)  Defendant Ahmadreza Rastegarrazi further
elaborated that he would not participate in any deposition until the criminal
case was concluded.  Id
On September 19, 2023, Defendants Optima
Financial Ventures and Mehre Iran objected on the grounds that Defendant
Ahmadreza Rastegarrazi was scheduled to commence a long cause criminal trial on
September 27, 2023, so would not be attending his deposition on September 28,
2023.  (Farivar Decl, Ex. K.)
On
or about September 19, 2023, Defendant Ahmadreza Rastegarrazi objected to the
depositions of Mehre Iran and Optima Financial Ventures’ PMK. (Farivar
Decl. ¶ 17, Ex. K.)
On
or about November 2, 2023, and November 7, 2023, Farivar’s office received
Substitution of Attorney forms for all Defendants.  (Farivar Decl. ¶ 18, Ex. L.)
On
November 17, 2023, Farivar sent another email to Mr. Shafie,  requesting
Deposition dates for each of the Defendants, in a good faith attempt to avoid
filing this Motion.  (Farivar
Decl. ¶ 19, Ex. M.)  As of the date
November 29, 2023, Farivar’s Office had yet to receive a response.  Id.  
Opposition
On April 25, 2024, Defendants attorney of
record for all Defendants, Behrouz Shaftie opposed the Motion to Compel
Defendants’ Depositions and filed a declaration.  (Shafie Decl.) Shafie declared that he has
been suffering with health issues and provided a declaration of by his treating
physician, Dr. Kamran Broukhim, MD. 
(Shafie Decl. ¶ 2-3.)  Shafie stated
he is almost eighty years old and a solo practitioner who is currently
suffering from undiagnosed intermediate chest pain and high stress.  (Shafie Decl. ¶ 2.) 
Dr. Broukim stated Shafie has been his
patient for the past forty years and that on August 3, 2023, Mr. Shafie came to
his office to see him on an emergency basis. 
(Broukhim Decl. ¶ 2.)  Dr. Broukim
stated that he has recommended Shafie reduce his work, and specifically, not
attend trials, depositions, or any contested hearings, pending the outcome of
his medical tests within the next two months in order to prevent any health complications.  (Broukim Decl. ¶ 2.)  
Shafie further declared that his only
Paralegal of twenty years recently left him. 
(Shafie Decl. ¶ 4.) Shafie stated that the absence of his long-term
paralegal is the reason why Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Discovery was
not calendared, as well as why no responsive pleadings were filed.  Id. 
Shafie stated he was the new counsel on the case.  Id. 
Lastly, Shafie stated Defendant believed that Plaintiff was seeking to
depose Defendant regarding the other matter because Plaintiff’s counsel in the
instant matter also represents the complaining party, Dr. Simon, in the civil
case against Defendant.  Id. 
            Additionally, Noah Peter, Defendant
Rastegarrazi’s Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner at Mentally Healthy
Care provided a report explaining why Rastegarrazi could not attend his
scheduled Deposition as the PMK with respect to his Deposition.   (Shafie Decl ¶ 5, Ex. B.)  Nurse Practitioner Peter’s report states that
Rastegarrazi has been under his care since the date of April 23, 2024, due to
experiencing challenges related to insomnia, depression, PTSD, panic episodes,
severe anxiety, ADHD, and other mood related problems.  Id. 
As such, Peter recommends that Rastegarrazi should be “abstained from
activities to enable his cognitive processing enhance his mental wellness” and
that he will continue to receive regular medication management and therapy to
address his mental health concerns for a period of 3-4 months.  Id.
Finally, Shafie requested that the court
continue Plaintiff’s Motions to Compel Defendants to respond to further
discovery to a future date so that Defendants have ample time to retain new
Counsel.  (Shafie Decl. ¶ 6.)
While it is true that Shafie was
substituted as Defendants’ counsel as of the date November 7, 2023 and the
Court accepts Mr. Shafie’s medical documentation recommending he abstain from
depositions and trial, the Court also finds that Defendants have had ample time
to retain counsel and appropriately engage in meet and confer efforts since
Plaintiff first served Defendant Rastegarrazi and Defendants Optima Financial
Ventures and Mehre Iran’s with Notices of Deposition on August 9, 2023 and
September 12, 2023, respectively. 
(Farivar Decl. ¶¶ 8-11, Exs. A-C.). 
Defendant Rastegarrazi’s doctor’s report states
Nurse Practitioner Peter has been treating Rastegarri since April 23, 2024, and
does not specify Rastegarrazi need abstain from a deposition or that a deposition
will interfere with Rastegarrazi’s treatment plan.  On April 15, 2024, the Court continued the
Hearing on Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Defendants’ Depositions, on the
understanding that no further continuances would be granted.  (4/18/24 Notice of Ruling.)  
Plaintiff Shayan has adequately met and
conferred with Defendants over these issues. 
(Farivar Decl. ¶¶ 9, 12-19, Exs. A-M.) 
Plaintiff has been attempting to take the referenced depositions for
months and Defendants have not even provided alternate dates. This case was
initiated over a year ago, and trial is less than 7 months away. Discovery,
especially depositions of key players in the alleged events must be deposed. 
For the reasons stated, Plaintiff’s motion
to compel the deposition of Defendants Rastegarrazi, Optima Financial Ventures,
and Mehre Iran’s is GRANTED. The depositions are ordered to occur within 30
days.   
 
 
Sanctions

Plaintiff
Shayan requests sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure sections 2025.480 and
2023.010 for misuse of discovery against both Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s
Counsel.               
            Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.480, “[t]he court shall impose a monetary
sanction . . . against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes
or opposes a motion to compel an answer or production, unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (CCP § 2025.480(j).)  Similarly, under Code of Civil Procedure
2023.010, it is a misuse of the discovery process to fail to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery. 
(CCP § 2023.010(d).)
            Here,
Defendants’ Optima
Financial Ventures and Mehre’s failure
to provide dates to schedule their PMK’s depositions is a misuse of the
discovery process.  Further, Defendant
Rastegarrazi’s failure to provide such dates and to meet and confer is also an
abuse of the discovery process that is not excused by an unrelated criminal
proceeding. The failure to provide deposition dates predates Counsel Shafie’s
representation of Defendants.  The
Court finds that the amount requested -- $4,5000 – is unreasonable in light of
the simple nature of the motion and the fact that Plaintiff did not file a
reply.  The Court will grant sanctions in
a lesser amount of $1000.00 as this sum more accurately reflects the filing fees and
attorney’s fees reasonably incurred for preparation and filing of the instant
motion and appearance at the hearing.
CONCLUSIONS AND
ORDER
Plaintiff Shayan’s motion to compel the
deposition of Defendant Optima Financial Ventures’ PMK, Defendant Mehre Iran’s
PMK, and Defendant Rastegarrazi is GRANTED and the Defendants are ordered to
cooperate with the setting of their depositions within 30 days.    
Defendants Optima and Iran are jointly and
severally liable and ordered to pay sanctions in the amount of $1000.00 to Plaintiff
Shayan, by and through counsel, within thirty (30) days of notice of this
order.  As Defendants’ failure to comply
with deposition notices and to appropriately meet and confer predates Counsel
Shafie’s representation of Defendants, Counsel Shafie is not subject to
sanctions. 
Moving Party is ordered to provide notice
of this order and file proof of service of such.
 
 
DATED:
May 3, 2024                                                            ___________________________
                                                                                          Yolanda
Orozco
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 
 
 
 