 Case Number:  23STCV12206    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Demurrer to Complaint 
 
Moving Party: Defendant
Jason Boutros
Resp. Party:    Plaintiff Maurice Maalouf
 
SUBJECT:        Demurrer to Complaint 
 
Moving Party: Defendants
Edwin Haratonians and Adrineh Asatourian
Resp. Party:    Plaintiff Maurice Maalouf
 
        
The Haratonians and Asatourian Demurrer is OVERRULED. 
 
The Boutros Demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On May 30, 2023, Plaintiff Maurice Maalouf filed his
Complaint against Defendants Edwin Haratonians, Jason Boutros, Wellness Care
Residence, LLC, and Adrineh Asatourian on causes of action of dissolution of
limited liability company, violation of the federal False Claims Act, and
violation of the California False Claims Act. 
 
On October 6, 2023, Plaintiff filed his First Amended
Complaint (FAC), which included a third cause of action for violation of the
California “unfair competition law” (UCL).
 
On October 11, 2023, the Court found related cases
23STCV12206 and 23STCV18039, and designated 23STCV12206 as the lead case. 
 
On November 27, 2023, Defendant Jason Boutros filed his
Demurrer. 
 
On November 30, 2023, Defendants Edwin Haratonians and
Adrineh Asatourian filed their Demurrer. Defendants concurrently filed their
Proof of Service. 
 
On December 1, 2023, Defendants Edwin Haratonians and
Adrineh Asatourian filed their Superceding [sic] Demurrer (“Haratonians and
Asatourian Demurrer”). 
 
On December 4, 2023, Defendant Jason Boutros filed his
Superseding Demurrer (“Boutros Demurrer”). 
 
On December 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed his Oppositions to
the respective Demurrers. 
 
On December 27, 2023, Defendants Edwin Haratonians and
Adrineh Asatourian filed their Reply regarding their Demurrer. 
 
On December 27, 2023, Defendant Jason Boutros filed his
Joinder to the Reply of Defendants Edwin Haratonians and Adrineh Asatourian. 
 

ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal
Standard
 
A demurrer is
a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises
issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s
pleading. It is not the function of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness
of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on the demurrer, all facts
pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true, however improbable they may
be. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 422.10, 589.)¿
¿¿¿
A demurrer can
be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under
attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311.) No other extrinsic evidence can be
considered (i.e., no “speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under Code of
Civil Procedure section 430.10 (grounds), section 430.30 (as to any matter on
its face or from which judicial notice may be taken), and section 430.50(a)
(can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of action within).¿¿
¿¿¿¿
A demurrer
may be brought under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e) if
insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted. A
demurrer for uncertainty (Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision
(f)), is disfavored and will only be sustained where the pleading is so bad
that defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what
issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed against
him/her. (Khoury v. Maly's of Cal., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.) Moreover, even if the pleading is somewhat vague, “ambiguities can be
clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Id.)¿¿¿
 
II.      
Discussion
 
The three individual defendants demur to the second and third causes of
action in the FAC. 
 
A.         
Violation
of the Federal False Claims Act and the California False Claims Act 
 
1. 
    Legal
Standard
 
a.     The
Federal False Claims Act
 
“Liability for certain acts.
 
“(1) In general. Subject to paragraph (2), any person who—
 
“(A) knowingly presents, or causes to be presented, a false or
fraudulent claim for payment or approval;
 
“(B) knowingly makes, uses, or causes to be made or used, a false
record or statement material to a false or fraudulent claim;
 
“(C) conspires to commit a violation of subparagraph (A), (B),
(D), (E), (F), or (G);
 
“(D) has possession, custody, or control of property or money
used, or to be used, by the Government and knowingly delivers, or causes to be
delivered, less than all of that money or property;
 
“(E) is authorized to make or deliver a document certifying
receipt of property used, or to be used, by the Government and, intending to
defraud the Government, makes or delivers the receipt without completely
knowing that the information on the receipt is true;
 
“(F)knowingly buys, or receives as a pledge of an obligation or
debt, public property from an officer or employee of the Government, or a
member of the Armed Forces, who lawfully may not sell or pledge property; or
 
“(G) knowingly makes, uses, or causes to be made or used, a false
record or statement material to an obligation to pay or transmit money or
property to the Government, or knowingly conceals or knowingly and improperly
avoids or decreases an obligation to pay or transmit money or property to the
Government,
 
“is liable to the United States Government for a
civil penalty of not less than $5,000 and not more than $10,000, as adjusted by
the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (28 U.S.C. 2461
note; Public Law 104-410), plus 3 times the amount of damages which the
Government sustains because of the act of that person.”
 
(U.S.C., tit. 31, §
3729, subd. (a)(1).)
 
“Actions by private persons.
 
“(1) A person may bring a civil action for a violation of section
3729 [31 USCS § 3729] for the person and for the United States Government. The
action shall be brought in the name of the Government. The action may be dismissed
only if the court and the Attorney General give written consent to the
dismissal and their reasons for consenting.
 
“(2) A copy of the complaint and written disclosure of
substantially all material evidence and information the person possesses shall
be served on the Government pursuant to Rule 4(d)(4) [Rule 4(i)] of the Federal
Rules of Civil Procedure. The complaint shall be filed in camera, shall remain
under seal for at least 60 days, and shall not be served on the defendant until
the court so orders. The Government may elect to intervene and proceed with the
action within 60 days after it receives both the complaint and the material
evidence and information.
 
“(3) The Government may, for good cause shown, move the court for
extensions of the time during which the complaint remains under seal under
paragraph (2). Any such motions may be supported by affidavits or other
submissions in camera. The defendant shall not be required to respond to any
complaint filed under this section until 20 days after the complaint is
unsealed and served upon the defendant pursuant to Rule 4 of the Federal
Rules of Civil Procedure.
 
(4) Before the expiration of the 60-day period or any extensions
obtained under paragraph (3), the Government shall—
 
“(A) proceed with the action, in which case the action shall be
conducted by the Government; or
 
“(B) notify the court that it declines to take over the action, in
which case the person bringing the action shall have the right to conduct the
action.
 
“(5) When a person brings an action under this subsection, no
person other than the Government may intervene or bring a related action based
on the facts underlying the pending action.”
 
(U.S.C., tit. 31, §
3730.)
 
b.     The
California False Claims Act
 
“This article
shall be known and may be cited as the False Claims Act.” (Gov. Code, § 12650,
subd. (a).)”
 
“Any person who commits any of the
following enumerated acts in this subdivision shall have violated this article
and shall be liable to the state or to the political subdivision for three
times the amount of damages that the state or political subdivision sustains
because of the act of that person. A person who commits any of the following
enumerated acts shall also be liable to the state or to the political
subdivision for the costs of a civil action brought to recover any of those
penalties or damages, and shall be liable to the state or political subdivision
for a civil penalty of not less than five thousand five hundred dollars
($5,500) and not more than eleven thousand dollars ($11,000) for each
violation, as adjusted by the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act
of 1990, Public Law 101–410 Section 5, 104 Stat. 891, note following 28 U.S.C.
Section 2461.
 
“(1) Knowingly presents or causes to be presented a
false or fraudulent claim for payment or approval.
 
“(2) Knowingly makes, uses, or causes to be made or
used a false record or statement material to a false or fraudulent claim.
 
“(3) Conspires to commit a violation of this
subdivision.
 
“(4) Has possession, custody, or control of public
property or money used or to be used by the state or by any political
subdivision and knowingly delivers or causes to be delivered less than all of
that property.
 
“(5) Is authorized to make or deliver a document
certifying receipt of property used or to be used by the state or by any
political subdivision and knowingly makes or delivers a receipt that falsely
represents the property used or to be used.
 
“(6) Knowingly buys, or receives as a pledge of an
obligation or debt, public property from any person who lawfully may not sell
or pledge the property.
 
“(7) Knowingly makes, uses, or causes to be made or
used a false record or statement material to an obligation to pay or transmit
money or property to the state or to any political subdivision, or knowingly
conceals or knowingly and improperly avoids, or decreases an obligation to pay
or transmit money or property to the state or to any political subdivision.
 
“(8) Is a beneficiary of an inadvertent submission of
a false claim, subsequently discovers the falsity of the claim, and fails to
disclose the false claim to the state or the political subdivision within a
reasonable time after discovery of the false claim.”
 
(Gov. Code, § 12651,
subd. (a).)
 
“The provisions
of this article are not exclusive, and the remedies provided for in this
article shall be in addition to any other remedies provided for in any other
law or available under common law.” (Gov. Code, § 12655, subd. (a).)
 
“This article
shall be liberally construed and applied to promote the public interest.” (Gov.
Code, § 12655, subd. (c).)
 
2. 
    Discussion
 
Defendants demur to the second cause of action for violation of the
federal False Claims Act (FCA) and the California False Claims Act (CFCA),
arguing: (1) that the second cause of action does not allege the required
facts; (2) that the allegations do not have the necessary specificity to comply
with the heightened pleading requirements of this cause of action; and (3) that
the second cause of cation is uncertain, ambiguous, and unintelligible in that
it speculates about the possibility of wrongful false claim billings.
(Haratonians and Asatourian Demurrer, pp. 5:21–23, 7:9–11, 9:1–2; Boutros
Demurrer, pp. 7:1–3, 8:9–11, 10:1–2.)
 
        Defendants correctly note that “CFCA
actions are subject to heightened fraud-like pleading requirements.” (State
ex rel. Edelweiss Fund, LLC v. JPMorgan Chase & Co. (2023) 90
Cal.App.5th 1119, 1136, [cleaned up].)
 
        Nonetheless, Plaintiff’s FAC is well-pled.

 
        Among other things, Plaintiff alleges:
(1) that Plaintiff is associated and familiar with Defendants through his
dealings and communications with them; (2) that Plaintiff has personally
observed on multiple occasions what appeared to be transfers of cash in a small
paper bag by Defendants; (3) that Defendants are engaged in a scheme to defraud
the federal and state government Medicare and Medicaid programs; and (4) that
Defendants’ scheme for this fraud involves exaggerated billing for “care” of
“patients,” which in some cases involved “patients” that did not exist and
“care” that was never provided. (FAC, ¶¶ 12–17.)
 
        These allegations are sufficiently
certain, unambiguous, and intelligible. They are not impermissibly speculative,
and they meet the same heightened pleading requirements as a cause of action
for fraud. Finally, they sufficiently plead the necessary elements for causes
of action under the federal False Claims Act and the CFCA. 
 
        The Court OVERRULES the Demurrer to the
second cause of action for violation of the FCA and the CFCA.
 
B. 
    Unfair
Competition Law
 
1. 
    Legal
Standard
 
“As used in this chapter,
unfair competition shall mean and include any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent
business act or practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading
advertising and any act prohibited by Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 17500)
of Part 3 of Division 7 of the Business and Professions Code.” (Bus. &
Prof. Code, § 17200.)
 
2. 
    Discussion
 
Defendants demur to the third cause of action for violation of the UCL,
based on the same arguments made as to the second cause of action.
 
        The Court disagrees with Defendants. The
third cause of action is sufficiently pleaded for all of the same reasons that
the second cause of action is sufficiently pleaded. 
 
        The Court OVERRULES the Demurrer to the
third cause of action for violation of the UCL. 
 
III.    
Conclusion

 
The Haratonians and Asatourian Demurrer is OVERRULED. 
 
The Boutros Demurrer is OVERRULED.
 