  Case Number:  21STCV13630    Hearing Date:   November 26, 2024    Dept:  T Rulings on Motions in Limine
Plaintiff’s Motions – 
#1           Exhibits
during opening statements.  Granted in
part.  Counsel are encouraged to exchange
any evidence they intend to show during opening statements to allow objections
outside the presence of the jury.  The
Court will only allow counsel to use any evidence that they reasonably
anticipate will be admitted into evidence.
#2           Excluding
witnesses. Granted.
#3           Exclude
insurance/settlement discussions.  Granted as to settlement discussions.  Granted in part as to liability insurance.  There may be circumstances where medical
insurance might be referenced in terms of payment of past medical bills or as
evidence of the reasonable value of services rendered.
#4           Identifying
witnesses.  Denied.  Not a proper motion in limine.  Counsel are encouraged to meet and confer
regarding expected order of witnesses.
#5           Exclude
evidence not disclosed in discovery.  Granted
in part.  The court will exclude any
witnesses, evidence or contentions not disclosed during discovery if there were
discovery requests seeking their disclosure.
#6           Exclude
existence of medical insurance/failure to mitigate.  Granted in part.  Existence of medical insurance cannot be used
as the ground for a failure to mitigate. 
However, medical insurance may be referenced for the reasonable value of
services rendered.  
#7           Exclude
attorney referred care.  Denied.  Attorney referred care may be evidence to show
bias.
#8           Exclude
amount lienholders may accept. 
Denied.  Defendant is entitled to
use such evidence as the basis to establish the reasonable value of services
rendered.  
#9 and #11         Exclude
prior medical conditions.  Denied without
prejudice.  The motion fails to establish
what injuries are being sought in this matter and how those injuries are
unrelated to the prior conditions/treatment.
Defendant’s Motions In Limine
#1           Exclude
Common Carrier.  Granted.
#2           Exclude
new claims.  Granted in part.  Defendant must have conducted discovery establishing
full scope of claims.
#3           No #3 was located
in the file.  
#4           Exclude Golden
Rule/Reptile.  Denied.  Not a proper motion in limine.  Counsel are reminded that it is in appropriate
to use golden rule and conscience of the community arguments.  Objections to any such arguments will be
promptly sustained.
#5           Exclude
dollar amounts in voir dire.  Granted.  The Court will engage in questioning of the
jury as to their ability to render a substantial verdict, pain and suffering damages
and arbitrary limits.
#6           Exclude
evidence not disclosed in discovery.  Granted
in part.  The court will exclude any
witnesses, evidence or contentions not disclosed during discovery if there were
discovery requests seeking their disclosure.
#7           Exclude responsive
evidence not disclosed in discovery.  Granted.
#8           No #8 was located
in the file.  
#9           Exclude
accident reconstruction and biomechanical experts.  Tentative is to grant so long as Defendant is
not contesting causation.  The Court will
hear argument on the issues raised.  