  Case Number:  22STCV00057    Hearing Date:   November 18, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff
Neil J. Bitton’s Petition to Vacate Arbitration Award and Request for Jury
Trial
Plaintiff
Neil J. Bitton moves to vacate the arbitration award issued in favor of
defendant Airbnb, Inc.  Plaintiff argues the
award must be vacated on three grounds under the Federal Arbitration Act (FAA)
and for one other reason.  
Corruption
or Fraud
            Plaintiff does not show “the award
was procured by corruption, fraud, or undue means.”  (9 U.S.C. § 10(a)(1).)  He argues defendant’s counsel committed
perjury during the arbitration.  He
provides no evidence supporting that assertion. 
He makes only a conclusory accusation in his declaration.  (Bitton Decl., ¶ 5.)  
Moreover,
plaintiff gives no evidence or explanation of how any perjury affected the
award.  Vacating the award because it was
procured by fraud or undue means “requires a showing that the undue means
caused the award to be given.”  (A.G.
Edwards & Sons, Inc. v. McCollough (9th Cir. 1992) 967 F.2d 1401, 1403.)  Defendant shows the arbitrator issued an
award against plaintiff because he did not appear at the hearing or present any
evidence.  (Minor Decl., Ex. 23, p. 2.)  The arbitrator also ruled that the written
evidence plaintiff submitted before the hearing was insufficient.  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff shows no reason why supposed perjury
by defendant’s counsel impacted the award.
Partiality
Plaintiff
does not show “evident partiality or corruption in the arbitrators.”  (9 U.S.C. § 10(a)(2).)  “ ‘Evident partiality may be found only “where
a reasonable person would have to conclude that an arbitrator was partial to
one party to the arbitration.” ’ ”  (National
Football League Management Council v. National Football League Players Ass’n
(2d Cir. 2016) 820 F.3d 527, 548.)  
Plaintiff
argues the arbitrator was partial because defendant chose him.  Defendant presents evidence showing the
American Arbitration Association (AAA) chose the arbitrator, Robert M. Dawson.  On October 3, 2023, AAA sent a letter to the
parties stating, “Per the applicable Consumer Arbitration Rules, the American
Arbitration Association (AAA) has made an administrative appointment of Robert
M. Dawson to serve as arbitrator.” 
(Minor Decl., Ex. 9.)  Plaintiff
also does not show he made any objection to Dawson’s appointment.
Plaintiff
also contends the arbitrator was partial because he had a financial interest in
being repeatedly selected by defendant.  Courts
have recognized the “repeat player” effect as a legitimate concern but have not
applied it in the absence of evidence showing bias in the circumstances.  (See Mercuro v. Superior Court (2002)
96 Cal.App.4th 167, 179; Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997)
15 Cal.4th 951, 985-986.)  “ ‘[T]he party
alleging evident partiality [in actual bias cases] must establish specific
facts which indicate improper motives.’ ” 
(Woods v. Saturn Distribution Corp. (9th Cir. 1996) 78 F.3d 424,
427.)  Plaintiff does not meet his
burden.
Refusal
to Postpone Hearing
            Plaintiff does not show the
arbitrator committed “misconduct in refusing to postpone the hearing, upon
sufficient cause shown, or in refusing to hear evidence pertinent and material
to the controversy.”  (9 U.S.C. §
10(a)(3).)  Plaintiff asserts the
arbitrator refused to postpone the hearing despite plaintiff’s documented
medical emergency.  The arbitrator,
however, expressly considered plaintiff’s purported medical emergency and the
evidence plaintiff submitted in support of his request to postpone or re-set
the hearing.  (Minor Decl., Ex. 23, p. 2.)  The arbitrator ruled, “The contradictions in
the evidence provided render it woefully short of constituting good cause.”  (Ibid.)  
The Arbitrator Was Not a Judge
            Finally,
plaintiff argues the arbitrator was not qualified because he has never been a
judge.  Arbitrators are not required to
be judges.  Even if they were, plaintiff
cites no authority that an arbitrator’s lack of qualifications constitutes a
basis for vacating an arbitration award under the FAA.
Disposition
            Plaintiff
Neil J. Bitton’s petition to vacate arbitration award is denied.  