 Case Number:  24STCV14973    Hearing Date:   November 18, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel
Defendant Danny Chan to Provide Amended Verified Responses and Responsive
Documents
            Plaintiffs
SMC Specialty Finance, LLC, Gary Raskin, and Alastair Burlingham move to compel
defendant Danny Chan to serve further responses to requests for production, set
one, Nos. 1-59.  Plaintiffs further move
Chan to produce additional documents.  A party propounding requests for production
may move to compel further responses if “[a] statement of compliance with the
demand is incomplete,” “[a] representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive,” or “[a]n objection in the response is
without merit or too general.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).)
Statements of Compliance
            Chan
gave incomplete statements of compliance in response to request Nos. 24-26. Code
of Civil Procedure section 2031.220 provides, “A statement that the party to
whom a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling has been directed
will comply with the particular demand shall state that the production,
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, and related activity demanded, will
be allowed either in whole or in part, and that all documents or things
in the demanded category that are in the possession, custody, or control of
that party and to which no objection is being made will be included in the
production.”  (Italics added.)
After
objecting to request Nos. 24-26, Chan responded, “Defendant agrees to produce
relevant and responsive documents to this request, which are in Defendant’s
possession, custody or control.”  The
response does not specify defendant would produce “all” responsive documents in
his possession, custody, or control.  A statement of compliance in whole must use
the word “all” because it states under oath not only that the responding party
will produce some documents, but also that the responding party is not
withholding any responsive documents.  To
the extent Chan intended to make only partial statements of compliance or is
withholding documents that are not “relevant,” the responses are evasive and do
not identify any documents withheld subject to objections as required.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.240, subd. (b)(1).)
Representations of Inability to
Comply
            Chan
gave evasive representations of inability to comply in response to request Nos.
50-52.  Code of Civil Procedure section
2031.230 provides, “A representation of inability to comply with the particular
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall affirm that a
diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply
with that demand.  This statement shall
also specify whether the inability to comply is because the particular item or
category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or
stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control
of the responding party.  The statement
shall set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization
known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that
item or category of item.”  
For request
Nos. 50-52, Chan objected and then responded, “Defendant has done a diligent
search and states that there are not any relevant documents responsive to this
request in Defendant’s possession, custody or control, but rather believes that
any such documents would be in the possession of” plaintiffs.  Plaintiffs’ motion asserts these responses
are improper because Chan used the term “relevant documents.”  The court agrees.  “Under
California’s discovery statutes, ‘information is discoverable if it is
unprivileged and is either relevant to the subject matter of the action or
reasonably calculated to reveal admissible evidence.’ ”  (Los Angeles Unified School Dist. v.
Trustees of Southern California IBEW-NECA Pension Plan (2010) 187
Cal.App.4th 621, 627–628.)  The requests
themselves are relevant to the subject matter of the action and reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.  Including the term “relevant” makes the
responses evasive by incorporating an objection without specifying whether Chan
is withholding any responsive documents or identifying any documents being
withheld.  
Objections
            Chan made meritless objections in
response to request Nos. 1-23, 27-49, and 53-59.  Numerous requests seek documents dating from
January 1, 2022, to the present.  Chan
objected and agreed to produce documents only between March 1 and June 16,
2024.  Chan argues the first amended
complaint only alleges wrongful conduct by Chan beginning in spring 2024.  (Opp., pp. 6-7.)  The first amended complaint alleges the
events giving rise to this action began in January 2022.  (FAC, ¶ 19.) 
It further alleges SMC lent $2,750,000 to defendant Sparkhouse Media,
LLC in March 2022 (¶ 23) and “[s]imultaneously … approached various capital
sources about the Loan,” including “ICPEP, LLC … a company owned by Defendant
Chan” (¶ 24).  Even if plaintiffs do not
allege Chan engaged in wrongful conduct until spring 2024, that does not mean
documents from earlier cannot include or lead to any admissible evidence.  Requests for documents beginning in 2022 are
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
            Chan also argues several requests
are not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence
because they involve ICPEP, LLC, which is not a party to this action.  Chan further argues several requests are
improper attempts to obtain evidence for a lawsuit ICPEP brought against SMC,
Raskin, and Burlingham in Indiana. 
(Rosenthal Decl., Ex. A.)  Though
ICPEP, LLC is not a party to this action, plaintiff’s first amended complaint
alleges SMC sought funding from it, and ICPEP, LLC agreed to provide SMC $800,000
to fund a loan to defendant Sparkhouse Media, LLC.  (FAC, ¶ 24.) 
These requests are relevant to the subject matter of the action and
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
Chan contends the requests improperly seek documents
about “any loans,” not just the loan to Sparkhouse Media, LLC to fund the film
project “Hail Mary.”  (FAC, ¶¶ 19-25.)  Though this action concerns that specific
loan, there is a reasonable possibility that documents about other loans
involving ICPEP and SMC may include or lead to admissible evidence.      
Chan’s objections to requests for production Nos.
1-23, 27-49, and 53-59 are overruled.
Sanctions
            Plaintiffs move for $13,210 in
sanctions against Chan.  Courts must
impose monetary sanctions “against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response to a
demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.310, subd. (h).)  Chan
unsuccessfully opposed the motion but acted with substantial
justification.  He made well-reasoned
arguments in support of his position on the disputed responses.
Disposition
            Plaintiffs
SMC Specialty Finance, LLC, Gary Raskin, and Alastair Burlingham’s motion to
compel further responses to requests for production is granted.
Defendant Danny Chan is ordered to serve
further verified responses to requests for production Nos. 24-26 and 50-52
within 30 days.  Chan is ordered to serve further verified responses without
objections to requests for production Nos. 1-23, 27-49, and 53-59 within 30
days.  Chan shall
produce all responsive documents concurrently with his written responses.