

 
SERVICE: 

 
[X]
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, rule 3.1300)                      OK
[X]
Correct Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)                                      OK 
[X]
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c, 1005(b))                       OK  
 
OPPOSITION:          Filed as of January 02, 2024               [   ] Late          [X] None 
REPLY:                     Filed as of January 08, 2024               [   ] Late          [X] None 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On April 3, 2020, Plaintiff
Manhattan Floor Covering, Inc. dba Servpro of Redondo Beach (“Plaintiff”) filed
this action against Defendants Maureen McCool (“McCool”) and Does 1 to 10 for
(1) breach of contract, (2) open book account, and (3) account stated.
 
The Complaint alleges the
following. Plaintiff is a California corporation. On March 21, 2019, Plaintiff
and the defendants entered into a written agreement whereby Plaintiff agreed to
provide services (does not specify what services) for the defendants. On May 2,
2019, McCool breached the agreement by failing to pay the outstanding
$11,604.38. Therefore, Plaintiff demands that amount as damages and prejudgment
interest of 1.5 percent per month from May 2, 2019.
 
On April 22, 2021, McCool filed a
Cross-Complaint against Interinsurance Exchange of the Automobile Club,
Plaintiff, and Does 1 to 10, for (1) breach of written contract, (2) breach of
the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (3) conversion, (4)
negligence, and (5) negligent hiring, retention, and supervision.
 
On March 23, 2023, McCool filed a
First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”) against Plaintiff, Interinsurance
Exchange of the Automobile Club, The Bucklin Law Firm, and Does 2 to 10, asserting
causes of action for (1) breach of written contract, (2) breach of implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (3) violation of insurance code
section 2071 and Civil Code section 3294 bad faith, (4) conversion, (5)
negligence, (6) negligent hiring, retention, and supervision, (7) fraud/false
advertising, and (8) legal malpractice. 
 
On May 19, 2023, the Interinsurance
Exchange of the Automobile Club filed a Cross-Complaint for Breach of Contract
(Settlement Agreement) against McCool and Moes 1-10. 
 
On June 2, 2023, the Interinsurance
Exchange of the Automobile Club filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint for
Breach of Contract (Settlement Agreement) against McCool and Moes 1-10. 
 
On September 5, 2023, McCool filed
a Motion for Leave to a Second Amended Cross-Complaint (“SACC”).
 
On October 9, 2023, Plaintiff filed
a document titled “Plaintiff’s Objections to, Response to, and Opposition to
Cross-Complainant McCool’s Motion to File a Second Amended Cross-Complaint.”
 
On October 10, 2023, Plaintiff, as
a cross-defendant, filed a document titled in part “Cross-Defendant Manhattan
Floor Covering, Inc. d/b/a Servpro of Redondo Beach/Manhattan Beach and Servpro
of Carson/West Carson’s Opposition to Cross-Complainant Maureen McCool’s Motion
for Leave to File a Second Amended Cross-Complainant ….”
 
On October 16, 2023, McCool filed a
document titled in part “Reply to Opposition of Cross-Defendant Servpro to
Motion for Leave to File [Proposed] Second Amended Cross-Complaint; Request
that the Court Abide by the Supreme Court Mandate that Unethical Attorney be Reported
….”
 
On October 16, 2023, McCool also
filed a document titled in part “Reply to Opposition of Plaintiff Manhattan
Floor Covering to Motion for Leave to File [Proposed] Second Amended Cross-Complaint;
Request that the Court Abide by the Supreme Court Mandate that Unethical Attorney
be Reported ….”
 
On November 08, 2023, McCool filed
a document titled “Motion for Leave to file a revised First Amended Complaint,
to Add in New Cross-Defendants; Causes of Action Against Current
Cross-Defendants and to Allege Punitive Damages Against All Cross Defendants.”
 
On November 17, 2023, McCool filed an
Ex Parte Application for an Order Continuing or taking Trial Date off Calander.
The Court rejected the application on November 20, 2023, on the grounds of
improper notice and Failure to Comply with the Limited Jurisdictions’ Third
Amended Standing Order. 
 
On November 21, 2023, McCool filed
an Ex Parte Application for an Order Re-Opening Discovery. Plaintiff filed its
opposition on November 22, 2023. On November 27, 2023, the Court denied McCool’s
Ex Parte Application, noting that McCool failed to make an affirmative factual
showing of irreparable harm, immediate danger or any other basis in which
relief may be granted under CRC 3.1202.
 
On December 01, 2023, McCool filed
an Ex Parte Application for an Order Re-Opening Discovery. Plaintiff filed its
opposition on December 04, 2023. On December 05, 2023, the Court denied
McCool’s Ex Parte Application, noting that McCool failed to make an affirmative
factual showing of irreparable harm, immediate danger or any other basis in
which relief may be granted under CRC 3.1202. 
 
On December 08, 2023, McCool filed
the instant Motion for Reconsideration of the Denial of the December 05, 2023,
Ex-Parte Applications for an Order Entering Default Against Cross Defendant and
Re: Continuing Trial and reopening Discovery. Plaintiff writes in opposition.
McCool writes in reply. 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Defendant/Cross-Complainant
McCool prays for the Court to reconsider its prior order denying McCool Ex
Parte Application under CCP § 1008. McCool argues that the Court should
reconsider its December 05, 2023, Order denying her Ex Parte Application as the
Court’s ruling incomplete as it fails to clarify the grounds for denying McCool’s
Ex Parte application. Moreover, McCool requests a ruling that Default be
entered and counsel for the Cross-Defendant be barred from making any
appearances or submitting any filing until the October 23, 2023, Court order is
complied with. 
 
OPPOSITION
 
            In
opposition, Cross-Defendant asserts that there is no basis for reconsideration
to be granted because McCool does not provide new or different facts,
circumstances, or law that satisfies the requirements under CCP § 1008, instead
McCool simply asks for a mulligan for her Ex Parte application and have the
Court reconsider the Clerk’s refusal to enter default against Cross-Defendant
and Plaintiff. 
 
REPLY
 
            In reply, McCool
argues that her motion does comply with CCP § 1008 and further that her Ex
Parte Application did comply with CRC rule 3.1202(c). 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Legal
Standard
 Code of Civil Procedure § 1008 provides, in pertinent part: 
 
“(a) When an application for an order has been made to a
judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted
conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days
after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based
upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make an application to the
same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify,
amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state
by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what
order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances,
or law are claimed to be shown. 
 
(b) A party who originally made an application for an order
which was refused in whole or in part, or granted conditionally or on terms,
may make a subsequent application for the same order upon new or different
facts, circumstances, or law, in which case it shall be shown by affidavit what
application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions
were made, and what new or different facts circumstances, or law are claimed to
be shown. For a failure to comply with this subdivision, any order made on a
subsequent application may be revoked or set aside on an ex parte motion. 
 
… 
 
(e) This section specifies the court’s jurisdiction with
regard to applications for reconsideration of its orders and renewals of
previous motions and applies to all applications to reconsider any order of a
judge or court, or for the renewal of a previous motion, whether the order
deciding the previous matter or motion is interim or final. No application to
reconsider any order or for the renewal of a previous motion may be considered
by any judge or court unless made according to this section.” 
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 1008(a), (b), (e).) 
 
A motion for reconsideration under § 1008 requires that the
moving party present new or different facts that were not previously considered
by the Court.  (New York Times Co. v. Superior Court (2005) 135
Cal.App.4th 206, 212-13.)  However, the burden under § 1008 “is comparable
to that of a party seeking a new trial on the ground of newly discovered
evidence: the information must be such that the moving party could not, with
reasonable diligence, have discovered or produced it at the trial.”  (Id.;
Even Zohar Construction & Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC
(2015) 61 Cal.4th 830, 833 [finding that § 1008 imposes the special requirement
of having to not only show new or different facts, circumstances, or law, but
also to “show diligence with a satisfactory explanation for not presenting the
new or different information earlier…”].)  Reconsideration cannot be granted based on claims that the
court misinterpreted the law in its initial ruling because this is not a
"new" or "different" matter.  (Gilberd v. AC
Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1494, 1500.) 
 
 
II.        Discussion 
 
As a preliminary matter, in so far as the motion seeks to
enter default against either the Plaintiff or the Cross-Defendant, the Court will
not decide the issue as a Motion for Reconsideration is not the appropriate vehicle
to enter a default against a party. 
 
            Defendant’s
motion is considered timely. Here, the Order to deny McCool’s Ex Parte
Application was served on December 05, 2023. Defendant filed her motion to
reconsider on December 08, 2023 (“12/08/23 Motion”), three days after service
was rendered on the parties. 
 
McCool provides the Court with her
Declaration, which attaches an email exchange between the parties as to the
basis for McCool to seek default be entered against Plaintiff. (Maureen McCool
Decl. p. 1; Exh. A). McCool states that her two prior ex parte applications
contain a series of reasons as to why they should be granted. (Id. ¶4.) Moreover,
McCool argues that because of the Court’s refusal to allow oral arguments, she
could not determine why the balance of the reasons were not valid (Id.
¶5)  McCool declares that she was confused
as to why the Court determined that her ex parte applications were not in
compliance with CRC rule 3.1202(c), because per her moving papers she was to
“see a series of specialists regarding my medical condition, and the
"issues" documented in my blood work.” (Id. ¶7.) McCool
further states that she filed this motion to obtain an understanding of why the
Court focused on one aspect and not the balance of her arguments. (Id. ¶
9.)
 
The Court finds the statements made
in McCool’s declaration not to be new facts, and moreover that McCool
misunderstands her burden under a motion for reconsideration. CCP § 1008(b)
provides in relevant part that “A party who
originally made an application for an order which was refused in whole or in
part, or granted conditionally or on terms, may make a subsequent application
for the same order upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law…” (Code.
Civ. Proc. § 1008(b).) The legislative intent behind CCP § 1008 was to restrict
motions for reconsideration to circumstances where a party offers the court
some fact or circumstance not previously considered, and some valid reason for
not offering it earlier. (Gilberd v. AC Transit (1995) 32 CA4th 1494,
1500.) The moving party’s burden under CCP § 1008 “is comparable to that of a
party seeking a new trial on the ground of newly discovered evidence: the
information must be such that the moving party could not, with reasonable
diligence, have discovered or produced it at the trial.” (New York Times Co.
v. Sup.Ct. (Wall St. Network, Ltd.) (2005) 135 CA4th 206, 212-213.)
 
Here,
McCool does not present the Court with new facts or circumstances not
previously considered because she essentially resubmits the facts stated in her
ex parte applications’ moving papers. McCool’s reasoning for seeking reconsideration,
to receive clarity on the Court’s prior order denying her ex parte applications,
is not appropriate for the purpose of this motion as a reconsideration essentially
asks the Court to re-review its decision due to newly discovered evidence that
would have changed the Court’s ruling if it had been presented at the time the Court
initially decided the issue. Asking the Court to clarify its prior order or
providing the Court with the same evidence as it reviewed before, is not new
facts or circumstances for purposes of CCP § 1008. 
 
Accordingly, for the reasons specified
above, and since the Motion does not satisfy CCP § 1008, the Court therefore lacks
jurisdiction under § 1008(e). 
 
III.       Conclusion 
            
            Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Maureen McCool’s Motion for Reconsideration of December 5, 2023, Ex Parte Applications
for an Order Entering Default Against Cross-Defendant and Continuance of Trial
and Re-Opening Discovery is DENIED in so far as the Court lacks jurisdiction
over the motion.
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice.  