

 
SERVICE: 

 
[X]
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, rule 3.1300)                      OK
[X]
Correct Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)                                      OK 
[X]
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c, 1005(b))                       OK  
 
OPPOSITION:          Filed as of January 02, 2024                           [   ] Late          [   ] None 
REPLY:                     Filed as of January 08, 2024                           [   ] Late          [   ] None 
 
BACKGROUND
A. Factual

Plaintiff Jason
Alan (“Plaintiff”) filed a cause of action against Defendant Equifax
Information Services (“Defendant”) for violations of California Consumer Credit
Reporting Agencies Act. Plaintiff alleges that at multiple times in 2023,
before filing his complaint Plaintiff gave notice to Defendant that Plaintiff
disputes the accuracy and completeness of alleged derogatory information
reported on his credit report. While Plaintiff disputes the accuracy of the alleged
debt, Defendants have failed to provide a satisfactory response to Plaintiff’s
letters, investigate Plaintiff’s dispute, or revise Plaintiff’s credit report
to indicate that the alleged debts are contested. 
B. Procedural
On November 14, 2023, Plaintiff filed a verified complaint against
Defendant for alleging violation of the CCCRAA § 1785.16. 
On December 18, 2023, Defendant filed the instant Demurrer with
Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Defendant prays
for the Court to sustain their motion to demurrer as to Plaintiff’s complaint
as Plaintiff does not provide any specificity as to the facts that give rise to
Plaintiff’s complaint. Defendant asserts that Plaintiff omits any references to
his legal residency. Secondly Plaintiff’s complaint does not identify the false
information on which his cause of action is based as it does not identify the
item of information, nor does it explain why the alleged information is
inaccurate. 
 
OPPOSITION
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff asserts that Defendant uses an improper legal standard to
support the basis for its demurrer. Plaintiff argues that the issue of whether
Plaintiff is a resident of California is a factual inquiry inappropriate for the
purposes of a demurrer. Moreover, to the extent that Plaintiff’s alleged misreported
information is inaccurate or harmful is a factual inquiry. 
 
REPLY
 
            In reply,
Defendant reasserts that Plaintiff does not establish residency and that
Plaintiff attempts to circumvent any residency allegations by broadly alleging
that the events occurred in California. Further, Defendant argues that Plaintiff
cannot state a CCRAA claim without specifying the (1) alleged debt and (2)
inaccuracy at issue. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Legal
Standard
 “The primary function of a pleading is to give the other
party notice so that it may prepare its case [citation], and a defect in a pleading that otherwise
properly notifies a party cannot be said to affect substantial rights.” (Harris v. City of Santa
Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th 203, 240.) As a general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts
alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the
complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Id.) The
only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,
states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.)
 
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to
amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is
on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully.
(Id.; Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 128.)
However, “[i]f there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state
a good cause of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to
amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).
 
II. Discussion 
 
            A. Meet and Confer Requirement 
 
The
demurring party must meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading to resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.
(CCP § 430.41(a).) 
 
Here
the Demurrer is accompanied by a meet and confer declaration as required by
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a). Defendants’ counsel, Alice
Hodsden states that she attempted to conduct a “meet and confer” with Plaintiff
prior to filing. (Patrick Torsney Decl. ¶ 1.) Counsel avers that Plaintiff did
not respond to the request to the meet and confer. As a result, the parties did
not reach an agreement resolving the claims raised by the demurrer, necessitating
Defendant filing of the demurrer. (Id. ¶ 2.) Thus, the Court finds that
the meet and confer requirement is satisfied under CCP § 430.41(a).
 
B.
Causes of Action
 
Defendant
demurs on the basis that Plaintiff fails to provide any specificity as to the facts
that give rise to Plaintiff’s complaint. Defendant asserts that Plaintiff omits
any references to his legal residency. Secondly Plaintiff’s complaint does not
identify the false information on which his cause of action is based as it does
not identify the item of information, nor does it explain specifically what
alleged information is inaccurate.
 
Plaintiff
brings a cause of action for failure to investigate disputes contained within
Plaintiff’s Credit report in violation of Civil Code §§ 1785.16 and 1785.25. Civil
Code § 1785.16(a), (d), (e), & (g) provides that, 
(a) If the
completeness or accuracy of any item of information contained in his or her
file is disputed by a consumer, and the dispute is conveyed directly to the
consumer credit reporting agency by the consumer or user on behalf of the
consumer, the consumer credit reporting agency shall within a reasonable period
of time and without charge, reinvestigate and record the current status of the
disputed information before the end of the 30-business-day period beginning on
the date the agency receives notice of the dispute from the consumer or user,
unless the consumer credit reporting agency has reasonable grounds to believe
and determines that the dispute by the consumer is frivolous or irrelevant,
including by reason of a failure of the consumer to provide sufficient
information, as requested by the consumer credit reporting agency, to
investigate the dispute. Unless the consumer credit reporting agency determines
that the dispute is frivolous or irrelevant, before the end of the
five-business-day period beginning on the date the consumer credit reporting
agency receives notice of dispute under this section, the agency shall notify
any person who provided information in dispute at the address and in the manner
specified by the person. A consumer credit reporting agency may require that
disputes by consumers be in writing.
…
(d) A
consumer credit reporting agency shall provide written notice to the consumer
of the results of any reinvestigation under this subdivision, within five days
of completion of the reinvestigation. The notice shall include (1) a statement
that the reinvestigation is completed, (2) a consumer credit report that is
based on the consumer's file as that file is revised as a result of the
reinvestigation, (3) a description or indication of any changes made in the
consumer credit report as a result of those revisions to the consumer's file
and a description of any changes made or sought by the consumer that were not
made and an explanation why they were not made, (4) a notice that, if requested
by the consumer, a description of the procedure used to determine the accuracy
and completeness of the information shall be provided to the consumer by the
consumer credit reporting agency, including the name, business address, and
telephone number of any furnisher of information contacted in connection with
that information, (5) a notice that the consumer has the right to add a
statement to the consumer's file disputing the accuracy or completeness of the
information, (6) a notice that the consumer has the right to request that the
consumer credit reporting agency furnish notifications under subdivision (h),
(7) a notice that the dispute will remain on file with the agency as long as
the credit information is used, and (8) a statement about the details of the
dispute will be furnished to any recipient as long as the credit information is
retained in the agency's data base. A consumer credit reporting agency shall
provide the notice pursuant to this subdivision respecting the procedure used
to determine the accuracy and completeness of information, not later than 15
days after receiving a request from the consumer.
(e) The
presence of information in the consumer's file that contradicts the contention
of the consumer shall not, in and of itself, constitute reasonable grounds for
believing the dispute is frivolous or irrelevant.
…
(g)
Whenever a statement of dispute is filed, the consumer credit reporting agency
shall, in any subsequent consumer credit report containing the information in
question, clearly note that the information is disputed by the consumer and
shall include in the report either the consumer's statement or a clear and
accurate summary thereof.
…
(Civ. Code, § 1785.16.)
Further Civil Code § 1785.25(a), (f), & (g) additionally provide that,  
 (a) A person shall not furnish information on
a specific transaction or experience to any consumer credit reporting agency if
the person knows or should know the information is incomplete or inaccurate.
…
(f) Upon
receiving notice of a dispute noticed pursuant to subdivision (a) of Section
1785.16 with regard to the completeness or accuracy of any information provided
to a consumer credit reporting agency, the person that provided the information
shall (1) complete an investigation with respect to the disputed information
and report to the consumer credit reporting agency the results of that
investigation before the end of the 30-business-day period beginning on the
date the consumer credit reporting agency receives the notice of dispute from
the consumer in accordance with subdivision (a) of Section 1785.16 and (2)
review relevant information submitted to it.
(g) A
person who furnishes information to a consumer credit reporting agency is
liable for failure to comply with this section, unless the furnisher
establishes by a preponderance of the evidence that, at the time of the failure
to comply with this section, the furnisher maintained reasonable procedures to
comply with those provisions. 
            Here, Plaintiff alleges in his Complaint that multiple
times in 2023, before filing his complaint, Plaintiff gave notice to Defendant
of Plaintiff’s dispute of the accuracy and completeness of alleged derogatory
information reported on his credit report. (Complaint ¶ 9.) Though Plaintiff
disputes the accuracy of the alleged debt, as it appears on his credit report,
Plaintiff claims that Defendants failed to provide a satisfactory response to
Plaintiff’s letters, investigate Plaintiff’s dispute, or revise Plaintiff’s
credit report to indicate that the alleged debts are contested. (Complaint ¶
13-14.) This would be enough to have a cause of action under the Civ Code. §
1785.16 as Plaintiff has alleged that he has notified Defendant about
inaccuracies within his credit report and that Defendant has failed to
investigate and correct the report if need be. Thus, the Court finds Plaintiff
to have stated facts to have a cause for action under Civ Code. § 1785.16. 
            Further, it seems that Defendant misunderstands the
purpose of a demurrer. A demurrer
tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab,
Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) To the
extent Defendant uses Churchill Vill., L.L.C. v. Gen. Elec.
Co. and Wilson v. Frito–Lay N. Am., Inc., to challenge Plaintiff’s residence,
this is a factual inquiry and would not be appropriate in the context of a
demurrer. Here, Plaintiff’s complaint states sufficient facts to show that he
has a cause of action and thus overcomes the demurrer. 
Accordingly, the
Demurrer is OVERRULED.
III.       Conclusion 
            
            Defendant’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint is OVERRULED.  Defendant is ordered to file an answer within
twenty (20) days of the Court’s ruling.  
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice.  