 Case Number:  23AHCV02346    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



BETTE JEAN MINOOGIAN WILLMON, et al., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
CALIFORNIA
   MEDICAL RESPONSE INC., et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV02346
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE CROSS COMPLAINT FILED BY DEFENDANTS
  CALIFORNIA MEDICAL RESPONSE, INC. dba CAL-MED AMBULANCE SERVICE, JUAN
  ESPINOZA, AND ASHLIY ARIAS
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
June 28,
  2024




 


)


 



 
On October
 10, 2023, Plaintiffs Michael Willmon and Bette Jean Minoogian Willmon
(“Willmon”), through her successor-in-interest Michael Willmon, (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) filed this action against Defendants California
 Medical Response Inc. dba Cal-Med Ambulance Service (“Cal-Med”), Juan Espinoza
 (“Espinoza”), and Ashliy Arias (“Arias”) (collectively, “Defendants”).
Plaintiffs also named Pasadena Hospital Association, LTD dba Huntington
Hospital (“Huntington Hospital”) and Charles W. Bugg, M.D. (“Dr. Bugg”) as
defendants. 
On November 20, 2023, Cal-Med and
Espinoza filed separate answers. Arias filed an answer on December 6, 2023. 
On March 21,
 2024, Defendants filed this Motion seeking leave to file a
cross-complaint against Pasadena Park Healthcare & Wellness Center
 (“Pasadena Park”). The Motion is unopposed. 
A party shall file a cross-complaint
against any of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against
him or her before or at the same time as the answer to the complaint or
cross-complaint. (Code Civ. Proc. § 428.50, subd. (a).) Any other
cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has set a date for
trial. (Id., subd. (b).) A party shall obtain leave of court to file any
cross-complaint except one filed within the time specified in subdivision (a)
or (b). Leave may be granted in the interest of justice at any time during the
course of the action. (Id., subd. (c).) Where the proposed
cross-complaint arises out of the same transaction as plaintiff’s claim, the
court must grant leave to file the cross-complaint so long as defendant is
acting in good faith. (Id., § 426.50.)
This action arises from an incident
that took place on January 17, 2023, when Willmon was being transported into
her nursing home at Pasadena Park on a gurney. Plaintiffs allege that Espinoza
and Arias, while in the course and scope of their employment by Cal-Med,
negligently lost control of the gurney when its right rear wheel struck the
corner of the disability access walkway outside Pasadena Park. Defendants
assert the cracks and uneven surface of the walkway, and the fact that no
alternative walkways were available, were a concurrent or contributing factor
to Willmon’s injuries and subsequent death. 
Defendants’ proposed cross-complaint
arises from the same transaction underlying Plaintiff’s complaint and it does
not appear that Defendants are not acting in good faith. Accordingly, Defendants’
Motion is GRANTED and Defendants are ordered to file the proposed
cross-complaint within 5 days of the date of this Order. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 28th
day of June
2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 