 Case Number:  24AHCV00009    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



NISHAN ABEYRATNE, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
DOVENMUEHLE
   MORTGAGE, INC., et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 24AHCV00009
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT DOVENMUEHLE MORTAGE, INC.’S DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
June 28,
   2024



 
I.      INTRODUCTION
         Plaintiff
Nishan Abeyratne (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on January 2, 2024. Plaintiff owns
the real property at 135 Spinks Canyon Road in Bradbury, California
(“Property”). In order to purchase the Property, Plaintiff and nonparty Linton
Abeyratne (collectively, “Borrowers”) took out a loan secured by a deed of
trust (“Loan”). Plaintiff asserts nine causes of action arising from loan
servicing provided by defendant Dovenmuehle Mortgage, Inc. (“Defendant”) for
that Loan. Plaintiff also names six other defendants: Shellpoint Mortgage
Servicing (“Shellpoint”), Nexbank, Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems,
Inc. (“MERS”), Raphael, ALC, First Bank, and Newrez LLC dba Shellpoint Mortgage
Servicing (“Newrez”). 
          On
March 6, 2024, Defendant filed a demurrer to the entire complaint on the
grounds that it fails to state any cause of action against it. 
          On
June 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief. 
II.     LEGAL
STANDARDS
A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of the pleadings and will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on
its face.  (City of Atascadero v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc.
(1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459.) “We treat the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law. We accept the factual allegations of the complaint as true and
also consider matters which may be judicially noticed. [Citation.]” (Mitchell v. California Department of Public
Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del
E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604
[“the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however improbable
they may be”].) Allegations are to be liberally construed. (Code Civ. Proc., §
452.) In construing the allegations, the court is to give effect to specific
factual allegations that may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory
allegations. (Financial Corporation of
America v. Wilburn (1987) 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769.) 
A demurrer may be brought if
insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly
construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities
can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.) A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the complaint is
so bad that the defendant cannot reasonably respond. (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subd. (f).)
Where the complaint contains
substantial factual allegations sufficiently apprising defendant of the issues
it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for uncertainty will be overruled or
plaintiff will be given leave to amend. (Williams
v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.) 
III.    DISCUSSION
A.  
Allegations
of the Complaint
          Plaintiff
alleges that in or around July 2020, Borrowers “began to struggle to make
payments on the Loan due to the economic downturn caused by the COVID-19
pandemic.” (Compl., ¶ 16.) Defendant “contacted Borrowers over the phone to
inquire about a missed payment” and “informed [them] that if they were
suffering from COVID-related financial hardships, then Borrowers were eligible
for COVID-related forbearance.” (Compl. ¶ 16.) Defendant also advised Borrowers
to fill out a form and, upon return of the form, Borrowers would receive the
forbearance. Borrowers did as instructed and after returning the form, Defendant
stopped calling about missed payments. (Comp., ¶ 16.) 
          On April 12,
2022, Borrowers received a notice from Defendant advising them that Shellpoint
would be their new servicer and that Loan payments should be remitted to
Shellpoint starting April 28, 2022. (Compl., ¶ 17.) The day after, Borrowers
received a contradictory notice from Defendant advising them that payments
should be made to Defendant. (Compl., ¶ 18.) This notice also informed
Borrowers that the Loan was in default and being accelerated, despite
Borrowers’ belief that the Loan was still in forbearance. (Compl., ¶¶ 18-19.)
Borrowers began to make monthly payments and their first payment was accepted.
(Compl., ¶ 19.) Borrowers also made repeated attempts to contact Shellpoint
throughout 2021 and 2022, who told them that the Loan did not exist in its
database. (Compl., ¶¶ 20, 27.) 
          When
Borrowers attempted to make a second payment, they “were locked out of the
online portal used to make payments.” (Compl., ¶ 21.) On June 28, 2022,
Borrowers received correspondence from Defendant rejecting their payment; the
correspondence claimed that the Loan was accelerated and the amount tendered
was insufficient to reinstate it. (Compl., ¶ 21.) Borrowers allegedly “were
instructed to obtain updated amounts from Prober & Raphael”, a law firm.
(Compl., ¶ 21.)
          Borrowers allegedly
made several attempts to contact P&R but received no response until
September 2, 2022. In the meantime, on August 18, 2022, Borrowers sent
Defendant a letter inquiring about the status of the Loan and requested a
payoff amount to facilitate a refinance. (Compl. ¶¶ 23, 24.) (Compl., ¶ 24.) On
August 23, 2022, Borrowers received a generic response from Defendant indicating
that their inquiry had been received and their account was being reviewed.
(Compl., ¶ 24.) 
On September 2, 2022, P&R sent an
e-mail instructing Borrowers to contact their lender and indicating that the
file had been transferred to Shellpoint. (Compl., ¶ 22.) 
On September 30, 2022, Defendant
advised Borrowers that it needed 15 more days to respond to their inquiry about
the Loan’s status and payoff quote. (Compl., ¶ 25.) 
On November 7, 2022, Defendant sent a
letter stating: “Our records reflect that a letter dated April 13, 2022 was
sent to you under separate cover informing you that we have forwarded your file
to the legal firm [P&R] to proceed with foreclosure action. Please contact
[P&R] for further information regarding this loan and the foreclosure
action.” (Compl., Ex. 4.) Defendant also pledged to send a payoff quote under
separate cover. (Compl., ¶ 26, Ex. 4.) Plaintiff alleges that Borrowers never
received said quote. (Compl., ¶ 28.) Instead, in a letter dated January 14,
2023, Defendant advised Borrowers of loss mitigation options, including
refinancing, loan modification, forbearance, or a short sale. (Compl., ¶ 28.) Borrowers
were not provided with a single point of contact, nor did they receive any
further communication from Defendant besides a letter dated July 1, 2023, in
which Defendant offered the same loss mitigation options as before. (Compl., ¶¶
28-29.) 
          On August 8,
2023, Borrowers sent Defendant a letter through certified mail demanding a
payoff statement and informing Defendant of their intention to refinance the
Loan. Borrowers also informed Defendant that they had attempted to reach it
multiple times from 2021 to 2023 to no avail. (Compl., ¶ 30.) Borrowers did not
receive a response to this letter. Rather, on some unspecified date, Borrowers
received a notice of default and election to sell under the deed of trust
(“NOD”), recorded on August 30, 2023, by P&R on behalf of Nexbank. (Compl,
¶ 32.) The NOD is purportedly attached to the Complaint as Exhibit 6, but no
Exhibit 6 is included. The NOD allegedly contained a declaration dated April
12, 2022, identifying Nexbank as the servicer, but Plaintiff alleges that
Nexbank did not acquire its interest until August 2023 when an assignment of
the deed of trust from First Bank to Nexbank was recorded. (Compl., Ex. 5.) 
B.  
General
Demurrer
          As an initial
matter, Defendant demurs to the “entire complaint” for failure to state any
cause of action. (Demurrer, p. 1.) Notably, however, Defendant does not address
Plaintiff’s First Cause of Action based on Civil Code section 2943, which
governs payoff demand statements, nor does Defendant address Plaintiff’s Fourth
Cause of Action for violation of Civil Code section 2923.7 or Ninth Cause of
Action for declaratory relief. Therefore, the demurrer should technically be
overruled in its entirety as Defendant concedes that the Complaint states two
causes of action. However, in the interest of judicial economy, the Court
analyzes the merits of Defendant’s arguments regarding Plaintiff’s Second,
Third, Fifth, Seventh, and Eighth Causes of Action. 
C.  
Second
Cause of Action: Violation of Civil Code § 2923.5
Civil Code section 2923.5 pertains to a
mortgage servicer’s responsibilities before recording a notice of default. Specifically,
subdivision (a), paragraph (1) provides that a notice of default shall not be recorded

until
both of the following:
 
(A)        
Either 30 days after initial contact is
made by paragraph (2) or 30 days after satisfying the due diligence
requirements as described in subdivision (e). 
 
(B)        
The mortgage servicer complies with
paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) of Section 2924.18, if the borrower has
provided a complete application [for a first lien loan modification] as defined
in subdivision (d) of Section 2924.18. 
 
(Civ. Code, § 2923.5, subd. (a)(1).) 
 
Subdivision (a), paragraph (2) requires
a mortgage servicer to “
contact the borrower in person or by
telephone in order to assess the borrower’s financial situation and explore
options for the borrower to avoid foreclosure. During the initial contact, the
mortgage servicer shall advise the borrower that he or she has the right to
request a subsequent meeting and, if requested, the mortgage servicer shall
schedule the meeting to occur within 14 days. The assessment of the borrower’s
financial situation and discussion of options may occur during the first
contact, or at the subsequent meeting scheduled for that purpose. In either
case, the borrower shall be provided the toll-free telephone number made
available by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development
(HUD) to find a HUD-certified housing counseling agency. Any meeting may occur
telephonically.
 
(Civ. Code, § 2923.5, subd. (a)(2).) 
A notice of default recorded shall
include a declaration of compliance that the mortgage servicer “has contacted
the borrower, has tried with due diligence to contact the borrower as required
by this section, or that no contact was required because the individual did not
meet the definition of “borrower” pursuant to subdivision (c) of Section
2920.5.” (Civ. Code, § 2923.5, subd. (b).) 
Defendant argues that any claim premised
on violations of sections 2923.5 and 2923.55 fail because Plaintiff admits that
Defendant contacted Plaintiff in 2020 over the phone to inquire about missed
payments and offered a mortgage forbearance. (Demurrer, p. 9 [citing to Compl.,
¶¶ 16, 28.) This argument ignores the accompanying allegation that Borrowers
were informed that the forbearance would be granted subject to the completion
and return of a form, and that Borrowers followed those instructions. (Compl., ¶
16.) Defendant also notably does not address Plaintiff’s allegations that the
declaration with the NOD that was recorded did not comply with section 2923.5
because it was dated April 12, 2022, even though Nexbank did not acquire its
interest in the Loan until August 21, 2023. (Compl., ¶ 45.) 
The Court acknowledges that the status
of the Loan and whether Borrowers remained in forbearance as of April 2022 is
unclear from the allegations comprising the Second Cause of Action; however,
Plaintiff alleges that after Borrowers returned the form, they did not receive
any phone calls about missed payments and an inference can be made that the
forbearance was, in fact, granted. There are no allegations that Borrowers were
thereafter in default. Additionally, there are no allegations that Defendant contacted
Borrowers either in person or by phone after the forbearance was granted and August
30, 2023, when the NOD was recorded. 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the Second
Cause of Action is OVERRULED. 
D.  Third Cause of Action for Violation of
Civil Code § 2923.55
Civil Code section 2923.55, like
section 2923.5, mandates certain notice requirements before recording a notice
of default, but differs most significantly from section 2923.5 in that it requires:
(1) specific information about certain protections if the borrower is a servicemember
or a dependent of a service member, and (2) compliance with section 2923.6(c)
instead of 2924.18. While there are other differences between the two statutes with
regards to their applicability, these differences are irrelevant to Defendant’s
demurrer. Instead, Defendant repeats its argument against Plaintiff’s Second
Cause of Action and contends again that Plaintiff’s Third Cause of Action fails
to allege sufficient facts because it “not only complied with the requirement
to contact Plaintiff and discuss financial issues, but actually provided relief”
in 2020. (Demurrer, p. 10.) Defendant also argues that it provided a
declaration of compliance as required. (Demurrer, p. 11.) Because Defendant
asserts the same argument, the Court incorporates its analysis of Defendant’s
demurrer to the Second Cause of Action and OVERRULES the demurrer to the Third
Cause of Action. 
E.  
Fifth
Cause of Action: Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
All contracts impose upon each party an
implied duty of good faith and fair dealing as part of its performance and its
enforcement. (Foley v. Interactive Data Corporation (1988) 47 Cal.3d
654, 683.) Under the implied covenant, each contracting party must “refrain
from doing anything to injure the right of the other to receive the agreement’s
benefits.” (Jordan v. Allstate Ins. Co. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 1062,
1072.) In sum, the implied covenant “fills in” gaps in contracts in order to
effectuate the intentions of parties or protect their reasonable expectations.
(Id.) Consequently, a breach of the covenant of good faith and fair
dealing is treated as a breach of the underlying contract. (Careau & Co.
v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal. App. 3d 1371,
1393.)
Defendant argues that Plaintiff cannot
state a claim for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing
because the deed of trust “contains no mention of modification of any of the
terms of the contract, or acceptance of payment, or options if the borrower
fails to pay.” (Demurrer, p. 12.) However, a breach of the covenant of good
faith and fair dealing does not involve the breach of any express terms. Here, Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant breached the covenant of good faith and fair dealing by
“rejecting [his] Loan payments and thereafter charging interest and fees on
said payments, refusing to provide a payoff statement, and failing to abide by
requirements to discuss loss mitigation options with [him].” (Compl., ¶ 65, Ex.
2; Opp., pp. 6-7.) Plaintiff has therefore sufficiently stated a claim because
he alleges that Defendant, acting as the agent of the lender, prevented him
from performing his contractual obligations under the deed of trust by wrongfully
refusing to accept mortgage payments that Plaintiff attempted to make. 
F.  
Sixth
Cause of Action: Negligence
Negligence consists of the following
elements: (1) the defendant owed the plaintiff a duty of care, (2) the
defendant breached that duty, and (3) the breach proximately caused the
plaintiff’s damages or injuries. (Lueras v. BAS Home Loan Servicing, LP
(2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 49, 62.) “The existence of a duty of care owed by a
defendant to a plaintiff is a prerequisite to establishing a claim for
negligence.” (Nymark v. Heart Fed. Savs. & Loan Ass’n (1991) 231
Cal.App.3d 1089, 1095.) “[A]s a general rule, a financial institution owes no
duty of care to a borrower when the institution's involvement in the loan
transaction does not exceed the scope of its conventional role as a mere lender
of money.” (Nymark, supra, 231 Cal.App.3d at p. 1096.) However, a
duty may arise through statute. (See Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
(2022) 12 Cal.5th 905.  
Defendant argues that Plaintiff cannot
plead a negligence claim because Plaintiff fails to allege an independent duty
separate from its contractual obligations. (Demurrer, pp. 12-13.) In Sheen
v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 905, the California Supreme
Court refused to impose a common law tort duty on lenders to “exercise due care
in processing, reviewing and responding to loan modification applications.” (Id.
at pp. 948.)  The Supreme Court applied
the economic loss rule and concluded that: (1) a loan modification is within a
lender’s “conventional role as a mere lender of money” and (2) refused to
impose a duty of care in the loan modification context because it would be “contrary
to the rights and obligations expressed in the loan contract” by “imped[ing]
[the lender]’s right to foreclose by permitting foreclosure only after [the
lender] discharged a tort duty to ‘process, review and respond carefully and
completely to [a borrower’s] loan modification application[s].’ ” (Id., p.
925.) 
In opposition, Plaintiff does not
explain how Defendant’s alleged conduct extended beyond that of a conventional
lender (or its agent). Instead, Plaintiff relies on Biakanja v. Irving (1958)
49 Cal.2d 647, which the Sheen court considered inapplicable in the
lender-borrower context because Biakanja “does not apply when the plaintiff
and defendant are in contractual privity for purposes of the suit at hand.” (Sheen,
supra, p. 937.) Plaintiff also relies on Weimer v. Nationstar
Mortgage, LLC (2020) 47 Cal.App.5th 341 and Alvarez v. BAC Home Loans
Servicing, L.P. (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 941, both of which were disapproved
of by Sheen. (Sheen, supra, p. 98, n. 12.) 
Therefore, the demurrer to the Sixth
Cause of Action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.  
G.  Seventh Cause of Action: Breach of
Contract
“A written contract may be pleaded
either by its terms—set out verbatim in the complaint or a copy of the contract
to the complaint and incorporated therein by reference—or by its legal effect.
In order to plead a contract by its legal effect, plaintiff must ‘allege the
substance of its relevant terms. This is more difficult, for it requires a
careful analysis of the instrument, comprehensiveness in statement, and
avoidance of legal conclusions.’ [citation]” (McKell v. Washingtom Mutual,
Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489).
Defendant argues that Plaintiff fails
to sufficiently set forth the terms of the forbearance agreement that Defendant
allegedly breached. Defendant demands Plaintiff allege the terms of the
agreement verbatim or attach a copy of the contract to the complaint.
(Demurrer, p. 13.) Defendant also questions whether Plaintiff is alleging that
two years of payments were forgiven. (Ibid.) 
As part of Plaintiff’s Seventh Cause of
Action, Plaintiff alleges that “in or around July 2020, Borrowers and
[Defendant] reached an agreement to forbear Loan payments as a result of
Borrowers’ COVID-related financial difficulties. The terms of the agreement
were memorialized in a form provided by [Defendant], which was signed and
returned by Borrowers.” (Compl., ¶¶ 72-79.) Plaintiff goes on to summarily
state that “the forbearance was in place” in or around April 2022. However, without
reciting verbatim the applicable contract provisions or attaching a copy of
them, these bare and vague allegations are insufficient to demonstrate the
substance of the alleged agreement and of the provisions which were actually breached.  
The demurrer to the Seventh Cause of
Action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 
H.  Eighth Cause of Action: Violation of
Business and Professions Code § 17200 et seq.
In Kwikset Corp. v. Superior Court
(2011) 51 Cal.4th 310, 322, the California Supreme Court held that to satisfy
the standing requirement of section 17204, a plaintiff must “(1) establish a
loss or deprivation of money or property sufficient to qualify as injury in
fact, i.e., economic injury, and (2) show that that economic injury was the
result of, i.e., caused by the unfair business practice or false advertising
that is the gravamen of the claim.” 
Here, Defendant argues that Plaintiff
does not allege how any unlawful conduct caused economic injury. (Demurrer, pp.
15-16.) Defendant argues that the alleged injury, i.e., foreclosure, was a
result of Plaintiff’s failure to make Loan payments. (Ibid.) This
argument ignores the key allegation that Defendant wrongfully refused to accept
Plaintiff’s payments towards the Loan, thus any failure to make payments was
caused by Defendant. 
Therefore, the demurrer to the Eighth
Cause of Action is OVERRULED. 
IV.    CONCLUSION
The demurrer to the Second, Third, Fifth,
and Eighth Causes of Action is OVERRULED.
The demurrer to the Sixth Cause of
Action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
The demurrer to the Seventh Cause of
Action is SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to amend. 
 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 28th
day of June
2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 