  Case Number:  20STCV42875    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  55 Plaintiff’s Motion in Limine No. 2:  seeking to exclude any evidence, testimony,
or argument regarding Plaintiff’s prior lawsuit against his former employer.
 
TENTATIVE RULING: 
GRANTED.  
 
The Court agrees with Plaintiff that evidence of his prior
lawsuit against his former employer Fendi should be excluded as irrelevant, improper
character evidence under Evidence Code § 1101, and unduly prejudicial,
confusing and time-consuming under Evidence Code § 352.  In Lowenthal v. Mortimer (1954) 125
Cal. App. 2d 636, 643, our Court of Appeal reversed a jury verdict in favor of
defendant, based on an improper ruling allowing evidence on 15 prior lawsuits
in which the plaintiff and her husband were involved.  The appellate court ruled that these lawsuits
were irrelevant to the issue of plaintiff’s alleged negligence in the case that
was tried, not probative of any “nervousness” on plaintiff’s part in
confronting the situation that led to the recent accident, and improper and
prejudicial as a means of attacking the credibility of the plaintiff.  (Id., at pp. 340-342.)  The same must be said here.  Evidence of Plaintiff’s prior lawsuit from 17
years ago against a different employer has no probative value in assessing the
strength or credibility of his claims in this case and does nothing to undercut or bolster his
credibility in making those claims.Defendants make various arguments for why the prior lawsuit
should be admitted. Defendants contend that the fact that Plaintiff testified
in English in the prior lawsuit is relevant to Plaintiff’s claim that he did
not understand Defendants’ severance agreement in this case.  But Plaintiff testified in English at his
deposition in this case and has no plans to use an Italian interpreter at
trial. Thus, the fact that he testified in English in the prior lawsuit has
absolutely no probative value to Plaintiff’s claims in this case.Defendants contend that the fact that Plaintiff was also
represented by Shegerian & Associates in the prior lawsuit is relevant to undermine
Plaintiff’s claim that he did not understand the severance agreement in this
case. Defendants offer no proof that the Shegerian firm represented Plaintiff
at the time he received the severance agreement in this case. Thus, the fact
that the Shegerian firm represented Plaintiff in a different lawsuit 17 years
ago has no bearing on the claims and defenses in this case.Defendants contend that the fact the Plaintiff won a million dollar judgment in the prior lawsuit is relevant to showing that Plaintiff is motivated by financial gain to pursue this lawsuit. That Plaintiff won another judgment 17 years ago says nothing about the strengths or weaknesses of his claims in this case.  Plaintiff’s efforts to assert his rights under protective
legislation like the FEHA should not be undermined by allowing Defendants to
disparage his motivation to enforce those rights against multiple
employers as somehow nefarious or improper. Defendants contend that evidence of the prior lawsuit is
relevant to challenge the opinions of Plaintiff’s expert that any emotional
distress Plaintiff had from the prior lawsuit had resolved at the time of this
case. The Court disagrees. Plaintiff’s expert made clear in his deposition that
he is not formulating any opinions based on the prior lawsuit, which ended 17
years ago. Defendants’ contention is that Plaintiff’s emotional distress arising
from Defendants’ alleged misconduct in 2018 and 2019 was in fact generated as
a result of his difficulties with his previous employer in the years leading up
to his 2007 lawsuit against Fendi. This is simply not plausible.  Plaintiff’s alleged misconduct by Fendi is
sufficiently remote in time from the misconduct asserted against Defendants
that it cannot be said that any pre-2007 misconduct would have been an
alternate, pre-existing impetus for Plaintiff’s current emotional
injuries. Indeed, Defendants' own expert concluded that trying to show causation between Plaintiff's distress from the Fendi lawsuit in 2007 and Plaintiff's distress from Defendants' alleged misconduct in 2018-19 would be speculative. Certainly, Defendants have
pointed to no evidence supporting their contention that Plaintiff’s experience
with Fendi contributed in any way to the emotional distress damages he claims
to have suffered in this case. 
Finally, even if there were some minimal probative value to
be ascribed to Plaintiff’s prior lawsuit, the Court would exclude the evidence
under Evidence Code § 352 because its scant relevance is starkly outweighed by
the prejudice Plaintiff would suffer by being pegged as a litigious employee,
the confusion the jury would experience in wondering how to assess Plaintiff’s
prior work experience in ruling on this case, and the waste of time and
resources that would be necessary to explore Plaintiff’s complaints in the
prior case to compare and contrast them with those in this case.    
 
 