 Case Number:  23STCV07896    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
 Motion of Adept Legal Counsel, P.C. to
be Relieved as Attorney of Record.

LINDA MAULTSBY (Plaintiff) filed a Second Amended
Complaint alleging: The lenders, as to her apartment property at 4757 S.
Mansfield, Los Angeles, CA 90026, were defendants MURAL MEDIA, LLC and S.B.S.
TRUST DEED NETWORK that entered into the original loan and deed of trust while
incapable of legally doing business in the State of California, due to their
filing LLC cancellations. Defendants BRUETSCH and CAPITALBENEFIT, INC., acted
as agents for defendants.  Other
defendants represented themselves as being the lien holders, thereby fraudulently
inducing Plaintiff to enter into loan modification agreements.  The causes of action are: 1) Quiet Title; 2)
Fraud; 3) Breach of Contract; and 4) Negligence.
Now, counsel moves to be relieved as attorney of
record for Plaintiff, by declaring that attorney withdrawal is mandatory and
permissive, according to the Rules of Professional Conduct. 
“The determination whether to grant or deny an
attorney 's motion to withdraw as counsel of record lies within the sound
discretion of the trial court, having in mind whether such withdrawal might
work an injustice in the handling of the case.” Lempert v. Sup. Ct.
(2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1161, 1173. 
Here, the form notice, declaration, and proof of
service sufficiently comply with the requirements for a motion to be relieved
as counsel. See Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362. However, on 3/28/24, the Clerk rejected the proposed order
as not being filled out. 
Moving counsel’s declaration shows cognizable grounds
for withdrawal: 
·        
Cognizable grounds for mandatory
withdrawal. Rules Prof. Conduct, Rule 1.16.
·        
Cognizable grounds for permissive
withdrawal. Id.
Finally, no opposing document has been filed showing
any prejudice to the client. See Rules Prof. Conduct, rule 1.16(d). 
Therefore, the motion is granted, and the Court will
sign a completed order to be submitted by moving counsel.