  Case Number:  23PSCV03859    Hearing Date:   November 27, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Rebecca
Castillo v. Big Al’s LLC, et al. 
Plaintiff’s
Motion to Set Aside Default Judgment Pursuant to Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 473(b) 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to set aside default judgment
pursuant to Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 473(b). The default judgment entered on October
11, 2024, is hereby VACATED. The Court further sets an Order to Show Cause re
Why This Action Should Not Be Dismissed on January 7, 2025 at 8:30 a.m. in
Department 6 of this Court. 
            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is an ADA/Unruh Civil Rights Act disability discrimination
case. On December 13, 2023, plaintiff Rebecca Castillo (Plaintiff) filed this
action against defendant Big Al’s LLC (Defendant) and Does 1 through 10,
alleging the sole cause of action for violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act. 
On October 11, 2024, the Court entered default judgment in favor
of Plaintiff and against Defendant. 
On October 29, 2024, Plaintiff moved to vacate the default
judgment under Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b). The motion
is unopposed. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
Under Code of Civil Procedure, section 473, subdivision (b), “the
court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) Relief under this
section is mandatory when based on an attorney affidavit of fault; otherwise,
it is discretionary. (Ibid.) An application for relief must be made no
more than six months after entry of the order from which relief is sought and
must be accompanied by an affidavit of fault attesting to the moving party’s
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. (Ibid.; English v. IKON
Business Solutions (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 130, 143.) 
“The court may, upon motion of the injured party, or
its own motion, correct clerical mistakes in its judgment or orders as entered,
so as to conform to the judgment or order directed, and may, on motion of
either party after notice to the other party, set aside any void judgment or
order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (d).) 
DISCUSSION 
            Plaintiff moves to vacate the
default judgment entered on October 11, 2024. Plaintiff indicates on the date
the default judgment was entered, Defendant’s counsel contacted Plaintiff’s
counsel and advised that Defendant was not affiliated with the website that
formed the basis of this lawsuit, i.e., www.ilovebigals.com. (Fitzgerald Decl.,
¶ 5) Plaintiff indicates conducting a search of public records and finding that
Defendant does business as a restaurant/bar called “The Ruby Fruit,” and that
that restaurant is not associated with the subject website or the restaurants
listed on it. (Fitzgerald Decl., ¶ 6.) Plaintiff indicates that the physical
restaurants affiliated with the subject website are called, “Big Al’s,” and
that the privacy policy on the website states it operates the Big Al’s mobile
application. (Fitzgerald Decl., ¶ 3.) Plaintiff claims she did not know the
entity Big Al’s LLC listed on Defendant’s website was a misstatement and not
actually affiliated with Defendant. 
            The Court finds Plaintiff’s motion
well taken. Given that Defendant is not affiliated with the subject website
that formed the basis of this action, Defendant could not be liable for
violating the underlying laws upon which the default judgment was based. (Fitzgerald
Decl., ¶¶ 3-6; see Civ. Code, § 51 et seq.) As such, the default judgment was
entered in error and is therefore void. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (d).) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS the motion and hereby
VACATES the default judgment entered against defendant on October 11, 2024. The
Court will also set an Order to Show Cause re Why This Action Should Not Be
Dismissed. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to set aside default judgment
pursuant to Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 473(b). The default judgment entered on
October 11, 2024, is hereby VACATED. The Court further sets an Order to Show
Cause re Why This Action Should Not Be Dismissed on January 7, 2025 at 8:30
a.m. in Department 6 of this Court. 
            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.