 Case Number:  23STCV21161    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  57 Plaintiff
Maria Elena Salazar (“Maria Elena”) sued her former attorneys, Defendants Claudia C. Osuna (“Osuna”) and Osuna & Dotson Law Firm (collectively,
“Defendants”), for legal malpractice and fraud arising out of Defendants’ representation
of Maria Elena in a family law proceeding related to Salazar’s marriage to her
former husband Cesar Salzar (“Cesar”). 
Pending before the Court are the Defendants’ demurrer to Maria Elena’s fraud
claim and motion to strike the prayers for general damages and punitive damages
in Maria Elena’s complaint.  The Court is
overruling the demurrer.  The Court is denying
the motion to strike, at least as to the grounds on which the Defendants’ motion
rests.  On its own motion, however, the
Court is striking the prayer for relief for punitive damages on the ground that
it sets forth a specific amount of punitive damages that Maria Elena is seeking.  This violates Civil Code Section 3925(e ).
The critical
allegations in Maria Elena’s complaint are as follows.  First, Osuna failed to obtain an appraisal of
property in Long Beach, California that would have given another property located
at 9444 Rendalia Street, in Bellflower, (“Bellflower Property”) to Maria Elena in
the family law proceeding.  Second, Osuna
represented to Salazar that Osuna would ensure that the Bellflower Property
would remain Maria Elena’s property.  Third, Osuna falsely represented to Maria Elena
that Osuna had taken steps to actualize Maria Elena’s share of property in
Mexico that the Court in the family law proceeding ordered sold and shared
equally between Maria Elena and Cesar.          
Defendants’
demur to the fraud clam on the ground that the complaint fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action for fraud and that allegations are uncertain.
 In their Memorandum of Points and
Authorities, however, Defendants make arguments only as to the insufficiency
ground, not uncertainty.  Those arguments
do not hold water.         
First, Defendants
argue that Maria Elena’s allegations of fraud spring out of the claim for legal
malpractice, and therefore her fraud claim is “nothing more than negligence”
and as such is “duplicative and baseless.” (Demurrer at p. 4.)   To support this argument, Defendants rely on Flowers
v. Torrance Memorial Hospital Medical Center (1994) 8 Cal.4th 992. There,
the Supreme Court held that claims for general and professional negligence/legal
malpractice “comprise essentially one form of action.”  (Id. at p. 995.)  Defendants maintain that under Flowers,
Maria Elena’s claim for malpractice -- i.e. professional negligence --  and claim for fraud are one in the same.  Defendants’ reliance on Flowers is
misplaced.  Maria Elena has alleged fraud
in addition to professional negligence, not general negligence in addition to
professional negligence.  “Fraud is an
intentional tort distinct from malpractice.” (Knutson v. Foster (2018) 25
Cal. App. 5th 1075, 1091.)  They are not
one in the same.  Maria Elena can assert
both.
Second,
Defendants argue that the allegations supporting the fraud claim are insufficient
because Osuna’s alleged statement to Maria Elena that “Osuna was on top of
things as far as ensuring that the Bellflower [P]roperty . . . would remain
Salazar’s property” is an opinion, not a representation of fact.  (See Complaint, ¶ 27.)  The Court disagrees.   The alleged
statement in question is a representation that Osuna had done something, which Maria
Elena alleges that Osuna did not do.   The
same is true for the alleged statement of Osuna that Osuna “had taken steps to
actualize Salazar’s share of the Mexico property.” (Id., ¶ 28.)
Turning to
the motion to strike, Defendants’ lead argument is that punitive damages are
available only on the fraud claim, and because the fraud claim is
insufficiently pled, Maria Elena is not entitled to punitive damages.  This argument stands or falls with the
sufficiency of the allegations supporting the fraud claim.  In light of the Court’s ruling on the
demurrer that the fraud claim is sufficiently pled, the argument that punitive
damages are unavailable falls.  
Equally unavailing
is Defendants’ argument regarding the sufficiency of the allegations to support
an award of punitive damages.  In the
Court’s view, the allegations regarding Osuna’s conduct are sufficient to
support a finding by a jury under Civil Code Section 3294 that there is clear
and convincing evidence that Osuna acted with malice, oppression and fraud in
her representation of Maria Elena.
Defendants
also argue that general damages for emotional distress are not recoverable for
legal malpractice claims.  Maria Elena counters
that she is seeking those damages for her fraud claim and that they are
recoverable here because she has alleged intentional or affirmative misconduct
by her former attorneys.  Smith v.
Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1040, supports Maria Elena on
this point.
Although not
raised in Defendants’ motion to strike, the Court on its own motion is striking
the prayer for punitive damages because it contains a specific amount of
punitive damages that Maria Elena is seeking. 
This is prohibited by Civil Code Section 3925(e), which provides that “[n]o
claim for exemplary damages shall state an amount or amounts.”  Maria Elena is granted leave to amend her
complaint to remove the request for a specific amount of punitive damages.  