 Case Number:  19STCV18737    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  78  Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesDepartment 78THE BEE CONSTRUCTION, Plaintiff, vs.ONNI CONTRACTING (CALIFORNIA), INC., et al. Defendants. Case No.: 19STCV18737 Hearing Date: May 6, 2024 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT FILED BY CROSS-DEFENDANT ONNI AS TO CROSS-COMPLAINANT GEODISThe motion is denied.Moving party to provide notice and to file proof of service of such notice.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDOn June 8, 2020, Geodis USA, Inc. (Geodis) filed its Cross-Complaint against Domus Design Group, LLC (Domus), Onni Contracting (California), Inc. (Onni Contracting), Onni South Hill Limited Partnership, and Onni Real Estate IX, LLC (Onni Real Estate) (collectively Onni). PROCEDURAL HISTORYOn February 21, 2024, Onni filed this motion for summary judgment against Geodis.On April 22, 2024, Geodis filed an opposition.On May 1, 2024, Onni filed a reply.DISCUSSIONI. Legal StandardA party may move for summary judgment “if it is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.”  (Code Civ. Proc., section 437c, subd. (a).) “[I]f all the evidence submitted, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law,” the moving party will be entitled to summary judgment.  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) A motion for summary adjudication may be made by itself or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (f)(2).)   The moving party bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact, and if he does so, the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850; accord Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) In order to obtain summary judgment, a defendant may elect to show that an essential element of a plaintiff’s claim cannot be established (as opposed to presenting affirmative evidence negating as a matter of law an essential element of a plaintiff’s claim.). A defendant does this by presenting evidence that plaintiff does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence. (Aguilar 25 Cal.4th 826 at 854.) This is usually done by presenting evidence in the form of admissions by plaintiff that plaintiff has discovered nothing to support an element of the cause of action they are pursuing. (Id. at 855.) This shifts the burden to a plaintiff to raise a triable issue of fact as to that element of the cause of action at issue. The Onni seeks summary adjudication on the grounds that (1) the cause of action for unjust enrichment is not a valid cause of action and (2) Geodis cannot establish one or more elements of each of its causes of action.“When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., section 437c(c).) II. Judicial NoticeOnni requests judicial notice of the following:1. Geodis’s Cross-Complaint;2. Compendium of evidence filed in support of Onni’s motion for summary; judgment against Domus; and3. Domus’s First and Second Amended Cross-Complaint.Geodis requests judicial notice of the following:1. Geodis’s Cross-Complaint;2. Declaration of Alex Kulikov filed in support of Domus’s opposition to Onni’s motion for summary judgment;3. Domus’s Exhibits 1 and 43 filed in opposition to Onni’s motion for summary judgment; and4. Domus’s Cross-Complaint and Second Amended Cross-Complaint.The requests for judicial notice as to the Cross-Complaints filed by Geodis and Domus are GRANTED.The requests as to the evidence submitted by Domus and Onni regarding another motion for summary judgment filed by Onni is granted. However, the Court may not take judicial notice of the truth of the matters asserted in these documents. Although a court may take judicial notice of court records and files, judicial notice is limited to matters that are indisputably true. (Evid. Code, section 452(d); Arce v. Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 471, 482.) The truth of the matters asserted in these records is not subject to judicial notice. (Arce at p.483.) A court may take judicial notice of a document’s legal effect. (Julian Volunteer Fire Co. Assn. v. Julian-Cuyamaca Fire Protection Dist. (2021) 62 Cal.App.5th 583, 600.)III. Evidentiary ObjectionsGeodis objects to the evidence Onni submitted in support of its motion for summary adjudication. Geodis objects to the deposition of Michael Lin and Geodis’s responses to Onni’s Requests for Admissions (RFAs), set two, and Special Interrogatories (SROGs), set two. Geodis argues that Onni and Geodis had agreed to complete further discovery after the Court set a discovery deadline in September 2023. Although Geodis allowed Onni to complete depositions and propound requests for written discovery after the discovery deadline, Onni refused to allow discovery of its own witnesses. Where a party opposing summary judgment has been thwarted in the attempt to obtain evidence that might create an issue of material fact, or discovery is incomplete, the motion for summary judgment should not be granted. (Krantz v. BT Visual Images, L.L.C. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 164, 174.)Here, the Court set a firm discovery deadline in its June 6, 2023 minute order. Geodis had ample time to complete discovery in the allotted time and failed to do so. Additionally, Geodis does not explain what discovery is incomplete and how that discovery would have created a triable issue of material fact. Geodis did not move to reopen discovery or to compel Onni’s responses to discovery. Because there is no evidence that additional discovery would have created a triable issue of material fact, the Court declines to deny summary judgment on this basis.Geodis objects to the declaration of Aprino Meola. The objections are OVERRULED. However, the Court will not consider any legal conclusions offered by Meloa.Onni objects to Geodis’s evidence submitted in opposition to the motion for summary judgment. Onni submits 52 objections. Onni objects to Geodis’s authentication of evidence. The Court finds no issue with Geodis’s authentication. The remaining objections pertain to the declarations of Lin and Kulikov. The testimony is not material to the Court’s decision here. Therefore, the Court declines to rule on these objections.IV. AnalysisOnni moves for summary adjudication on the grounds that Geodis’s cause of action for unjust enrichment (the third cause of action) is not valid in California and that Geodis cannot establish one or more elements of each of its causes of action.1. Third Cause of Action -- Unjust EnrichmentOnni Contracting moves for summary adjudication of the cause of action for unjust enrichment on the grounds that California does not recognize this cause of action and because it is not a proper remedy.“The elements of an unjust enrichment claim are the receipt of a benefit and the unjust retention of the benefit at the expense of another.” (Peterson v. Cellco P’ship (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1583, 1593.) “Unjust enrichment is not a cause of action, however, or even a remedy, but rather a general principle, underlying various legal doctrines and remedies. It is synonymous with restitution.” (Rutherford Holdings, LLC v. Plaza Del Rey (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 221, 231.) The claim for restitution via unjust enrichment is cognizable in California under certain circumstances, such as when there is no enforceable express contract between the parties. (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1370.) Here, Geodis has no other remedies against Onni because, as Onni argues, there is no enforceable express contract between Geodis and Onni. Therefore, unjust enrichment is a cognizable cause of action under the circumstances. Onni next argues that Geodis cannot establish that (1) Onni received a benefit at the expense of Geodis and (2) the doctrine of unjust enrichment does not apply to a plaintiff who performs unauthorized work on behalf of a defendant.i. Whether Onni received a benefit at the expense of GeodisOnni argues it never received a benefit from Geodis because it never received the materials Geodis stored. Onni first argues that Geodis’s Person Most Knowledgeable, Michael Lin, admitted that no Onni entity benefitted from services provided or paid for by Geodis. Onni cites a portion of Lin’s deposition testimony where Lin states he does not know of any benefit any Onni entity obtained from the shipping or trucking companies involved in transporting the materials. (Lin Depo., 52:1-55:23.) Onni’s counsel asked Lin repeatedly whether, to Lin’s knowledge, any Onni entity benefitted from the services provided by a particular ocean carrier, shipping company, trucking company, or other entity. Onni’s questioning calls for Lin to form a legal opinion as to whether Onni obtained a benefit from any of these companies. Additionally, Lin does not testify that Onni did not benefit from Geodis storing the materials produced by Domus and intended for Onni’s development projects. Therefore, Lin’s testimony does not show that Onni obtained no benefit from Geodis at Geodis’s expense. Onni next argues that Onni never benefitted from Geodis’s services because Onni never received the contents of the six containers of materials Geodis stored. Onni cites Lin’s testimony that Geodis never released the materials to Onni and no longer has possession of the stored materials. (Lin Depo., 50:22- 51:4, 93:24-94:24.) However, the fact that Onni never received the materials does not change the fact that Geodis stored the materials for Onni’s benefit. Emails in Onni’s compendium of evidence between Geodis and Domus state that by April 30, 2019, Onni could not take deliveries on site because floors at the site were not ready. (Onni’s Exh. 8, pdf p.269.) Additionally, Domus represented to Geodis that the materials stored belonged to Onni and that Onni was accountable for storage. (Id., pdf p.265.) Onni does not dispute that the materials stored were cabinets it ordered from Domus which were meant to be installed in the Hill and Hope Street projects. (Meola Decl., ¶¶3,7.) Thus, even if Onni never received the cabinets, Onni lacked the space to store the cabinets and benefitted from the use of Geodis’s storage space for the period the cabinets could not be delivered. Thus, the Court cannot find that Onni received no benefit from Geodis’s services.Even if Onni did meet its burden, Geodis provides emails from Onni stating Onni delayed a delivery scheduled for January 9-February 15, 2019 to March 9-10, 2019. (Geodis’s Exh. 8, pdf p.69.) Although Onni alleges it did not know about the storage charges or Geodis’s involvement providing storage (Meola Decl., ¶7), the evidence shows Onni delayed delivery of the cabinets and should have at least known the materials were to be stored, which would incur costs. Therefore, Onni should have known that it was receiving the benefit of the storage when it delayed delivery.Onni argues that Geodis admitted it incurred no costs because it was storing the materials at its own warehouse, citing UMF No. 12. However, Onni still benefitted from the storage at Geodis’s expense because the materials were taking up space in Geodis’s warehouse. Geodis estimated the cost to store the materials at Geodis’s warehouse was $13,000 plus $1,440 per week. (Onni’s Exh. 8, pdf p.265.) Onni’s argument that Geodis incurred no expenses is without merit because Geodis was not compensated for the use of its warehouse space. Onni also argues that Onni had no ownership interest in the materials because Domus had not yet delivered the materials and title had not passed to Onni under Onni’s agreement with Domus. However, as discussed above, Domus represented that it was storing the materials on Onni’s behalf, the cabinets were to be used in Onni’s projects, and Geodis has evidence that Onni delayed delivery. Thus, there is a triable dispute of material fact over whether Geodis stored the cabinets for Onni’s benefit regardless of what Onni’s agreement was with Domus.  Because a triable dispute of material fact remains over whether Geodis stored the cabinets for Onni’s benefit, Onni fails to meet its burden on summary judgment as to this element.ii. Whether Geodis performed unauthorized work on behalf of OnniOnni argues that it never accepted Geodis’s services. Onni cites Hernandez v. Lopez (2009) 180 Cal.App.4th 932, 938. Hernandez provides that unjust enrichment only applies where a plaintiff conferred a benefit and a defendant knowingly accepted under circumstances that make it inequitable for the defendant to retain the benefit without paying for its value. Onni argues that it never knowingly accepted any benefit conferred by Geodis because it did not know about Geodis’s existence until after Geodis provided freight forwarding services, Geodis never had a contract with Onni, and because Onni never had a business relationship with Geodis. As discussed above, Onni did not have space to store the materials produced by Domus and delayed delivery. It is reasonable to infer that Onni at minimum knew that the materials needed to be stored somewhere and that there would be costs associated with the storage. It would be inequitable for Geodis to have stored these materials without compensation. Onni’s argument is thus without merit.Onni next argues that Geodis was not authorized to store the materials on behalf of Onni. Onni cites Griffith Co. v. Hofues (1962) 201 Cal.App.2d 502, 507 in support of this argument. There, an inn owner sold the inn to a new owner who engaged a contractor to make improvements to the inn. (Griffith at p.503.) After the new owner defaulted on his obligations to the old owner, the inn reverted to the old owner. (Id. at p.505.) A court found that the contractor could not seek payment for his work from the old owner because the old owner did not authorize the work, the new owner had no authority to authorize the work on the old owner’s behalf, and the premises was not in the old owner’s possession at the time the work was being performed. (Id at p.507.) The old owner was not in a position to forbid the work being done because he was not in possession of the premises.Here, this case is distinguishable from Griffith because unlike the inn owner in Griffith, who had no power to stop the work being performed on the inn, here, Onni specified in its contract with Domus that Domus would coordinate deliveries with the jobsite. (Meola Decl., Exh. A, ¶21, pdf p. 135.) Thus, Onni had the power to direct Domus to deliver the materials anywhere and had the right to stop the materials from being stored. Additionally, as discussed above, the evidence shows that Onni delayed delivery of the materials produced by Domus and should have known that the materials would need to be stored. Onni also provides no evidence that Domus was not authorized to store the materials on Onni’s behalf. Because the facts here are distinguishable from those in Griffith, Onni’s argument that unjust enrichment is not a viable theory here is without merit.Even if Onni met its burden, Geodis provides emails dated February 2019 showing that Onni was coordinating with Domus to schedule deliveries and mitigate the use of storage at the port. (Geodis’s Exh. 2.) Thus, Onni had the power to direct Domus, who then conveyed instructions to Geodis, to move the containers out of storage. Onni also knew that the materials would need to be stored if they were not delivered. Additionally, Onni had at one point on April 15 and 16, 2019 approved payment to Geodis before Apriano Meola ordered the check to Geodis shredded. (Geodis Exh. 9.) By April 2019, Onni was aware that Geodis was the entity storing the materials and that it had incurred storage costs. Under the circumstances, the Court cannot find that the evidence showed Domus was not authorized to store the materials or that Onni had no power to stop Domus from storing the materials with Geodis.Because triable issues of material fact remain over whether Onni benefitted from the use of Geodis’s storage and whether Geodis or Domus was authorized to store the cabinets, Onni fails to meet its burden on summary adjudication. Summary adjudication is denied as to this cause of action. a. Fourth Cause of Action – Declaratory ReliefOnni moves for summary adjudication as to Geodis’s cause of action declaratory relief.To state a declaratory relief claim, the plaintiff must allege a proper subject of declaratory relief and an actual controversy involving justiciable questions relating to the party’s rights or obligations. (Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909.) A claim for declaratory relief is improper if it seeks redress only of past wrongs. (Moore v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 280, 295 [“[T]here is no basis for declaratory relief where only past wrongs are involved.”].) Here, Onni argues that no controversy remains because Geodis is no longer storing materials for Onni. Onni also argues Geodis is not entitled to declaratory relief because there was no written instrument governing the relationship between Geodis and Onni. However, as Geodis points out, Geodis has not been compensated for the storage costs it incurred storing the disputed materials and neither Domus nor Onni is claiming responsibility for the debt. Therefore, a controversy remains over Domus’s and Onni’s obligations under their contract and whether either party was obligated to pay Geodis.Onni also argues that no controversy remains because no cause of action remains. Because the motion was denied as to the unjust enrichment cause of action, a cause of action remains and the motion is denied as to the fourth cause of action for declaratory relief.Finally, Onni argues that summary adjudication must be granted as to this cause of action because Geodis brings the cause of action under Code Civ. Proc., section 872.610, which concerns the partition of real and personal property. Although no party appears to seek a partition of personal property, disposing of this theory would not be dispositive of Geodis’s claim for declaratory relief which references all types of applicable declaratory relief. Summary judgment or adjudication may only be granted if the motion completely resolves a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty unless the parties jointly stipulate to adjudication of an issue. (Code Civ. Proc., sections 437c(f)(1), 437c(t); See's Candy Shops, Inc. v Superior Court (2012) 210 CA4th 889, 899–900.) Here, because this issue is not dispositive of the cause of action for declaratory relief, the motion for summary adjudication is denied on this ground.Summary adjudication is denied as to the cause of action for declaratory relief.DATED:  May 6, 2024 ______________________________Hon. Jill FeeneyJudge of the Superior Court