 Case Number:  24STCV20700    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



ATOS IT OUTSOURCING SERVICES, LLC,
  
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
DISNEY WORLDWIDE SERVICES, INC.,
 
                                  Defendant.
 


 Case No: 
  24STCV20700
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  September 19, 2024
 Calendar Number:  6



 
 
 
Plaintiff Atos IT Outsourcing Services, LLC (“Plaintiff”)
moves for an order sealing confidential information in Plaintiff’s Complaint.
 
The Court GRANTS the motion to seal the redacted portions of
the Complaint. 
 
Background
 
This is a contract case that arises out of a contract for
the provision of technological services (the “Framework Agreement”) between
Plaintiff and Defendant Disney Worldwide Services, Inc. (“Defendant”).
 
Plaintiff filed this action against Defendant on August 14,
2024, raising claims for (1) breach of contract – wrongful termination; (2)
breach of contract – breach of confidentiality; (3) breach of contract – breach
of solicitation and cooperation provisions; (4) breach of contract – breach of
express covenant to act in good faith; and (5) unfair competition.
 
Plaintiff moved to seal portions of the Complaint on August
19, 2024. On September 6, 2024, Defendant submitted a notice of non-opposition,
stating that it does not concede that any information subject to the request is
confidential and reserves the right to contest the confidentiality of any
information contained in the Complaint.
 
Legal Standard
 
“The court may order that a record be filed under seal only if
it expressly finds facts that establish:
 
(1)  There exists an
overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record;
 
       (2) 
The overriding interest supports sealing the record;
 
(3)  A substantial
probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the
record is not sealed;
 
       (4) 
The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and
 
       (5) 
No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.”
 
(California Rules
of Court, rule 2.550(d).)
 
            “An
order sealing the record must:
 
                   (A)  Specifically state the facts that support the
findings; and
 
(B)  Direct the sealing
of only those documents and pages, or, if reasonably practicable, portions of
those documents and pages, that contain the material that needs to be placed
under seal. All other portions of each document or page must be included in the
public file.”
 
(California Rules
of Court, rule 2.550(e)(1).)
 
“(1)  If the court
grants an order sealing a record and if the sealed record is in paper format,
the clerk must substitute on the envelope or container for the label required
by (d)(2) a label prominently stating “SEALED BY ORDER OF THE COURT ON (DATE),”
and must replace the cover sheet required by (d)(3) with a filed-endorsed copy
of the court's order. If the sealed record is in electronic form, the clerk
must file the court's order, maintain the record ordered sealed in a secure
manner, and clearly identify the record as sealed by court order on a specified
date.
 
(2)  The order must
state whether-in addition to the sealed records-the order itself, the register
of actions, any other court records, or any other records relating to the case
are to be sealed.
 
(3)  The order must
state whether any person other than the court is authorized to inspect the
sealed record.
 
(4)  Unless the sealing
order provides otherwise, it prohibits the parties from disclosing the contents
of any materials that have been sealed in anything that is subsequently
publicly filed.”
 
(California Rules
of Court, rule 2.551(e).)
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff requests that certain portions of the Complaint be
sealed on the grounds that they reflect portions of the Framework Agreement
which are protected by a confidentiality provision in the agreement.
 
The Complaint “discusses and quotes the confidential
contractual terms of the Framework Agreement between Atos IT and DWS and
discloses proprietary and confidential information, including financial
information, regarding Atos IT’s provision of outsourcing and consulting
services.” (Fountain-James Decl. ¶ 5.) Plaintiff contends that rival
information technology firms would gain an unfair economic advantage if they
were to gain access to the commercial information covered by the
confidentiality provision. (Fountain-James Decl. ¶ 7.) 
 
“[A] binding contractual agreement not to disclose” can give
rise to an overriding interest. (Huffy Corp. v. Superior Court (2003)
112 Cal.App.4th 97, 107, abrogated on other grounds as recognized in Curtis
v. Superior Court (2021) 62 Cal.App.5th 453, 471.) 
 
The Court finds that such an interest arises here, under the
facts of this case, and that it supports sealing the record. The Court finds
that failure to seal the confidential portions of the Complaint would create a
substantial probability that Plaintiff’s interest will be prejudiced. The Court
finds that the proposed redactions are narrowly tailored to protect Plaintiff’s
interest, and that no less restrictive means exist to achieve this interest.
 
Plaintiff has already filed a redacted public version of the
Complaint.
 
The Court grants the motion to seal the redacted portions of
the Complaint.  The Court will file the
unredacted Complaint under seal.
 