  Case Number:  21STCV41076    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  72   SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES    

SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA

COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES

 

DEPARTMENT 72

 

TENTATIVE
RULING

 




MICHAEL AMIN, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
4525 ROSEMEAD BLVD., LLC,
 
                                  Defendant.
 


 Case No: 
  21STCV41076
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  September 19, 2024
 Calendar Number:  2




 

 

 

Defendant 4525 Rosemead Blvd., LLC (“Defendant”) moves for
an order setting this case for trial preference.

            

The Court is willing to grant the motion, but if it does so
it must set trial no later than January 17, 2025.  Moreover, if the Court grants the motion, the
parties should be aware that the Court will lack discretion to grant any
continuance of this trial date for more than 15 days, even if all parties agree
to and request a continuance.

 

Alternatively, if Defendant withdraws the motion, the Court
is willing to set a trial on or about March 10, 2025.

 

The Court will discuss these scheduling issues with the
parties at the hearing. The Court encourages the parties to speak with one
another about the trial date prior to the hearing.

 

Background

 

This is a property case.

 

Plaintiff Michael Amin (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on
November 8, 2021, seeking specific performance to compel the sale of the
property located at 4525 Rosemead Boulevard, Pico Rivera, California 90660 (the
“Property”). Defendant is a limited liability company that owns the Property.

 

The Complaint raises claims for (1) breach of contract; and
(2) specific performance.

 

Bahram Mashhood (“Mashhood”) is the managing member of
Defendant. Defendant contends that Mashhood is also an individual Doe
defendant. (Mashhood Decl. ¶ 2.)

 

            Mashhood
as Stage 4 cancer, a terminal illness that raises a substantial medical doubt
of Mashhood’s survival beyond six months. (Sanani Decl. ¶ 4.)

 

On March 4, 2024, Defendant notified the Court that Mashhood
had Stage Four cancer. Judge Stephen Goodrich in Department 39, where this case
was assigned, set trial for July 23, 2024. The Court invited Defendant to bring
an ex parte application to protect the trial date.

 

On May 15, 2024, the Court reassigned this case to Judge
Tony Richardson in Department 39. Defendant filed an ex parte application for
trial preference on June 3, 2024. On June 5, 2024, Judge Richardson recused
himself from this case, vacated all dates, and transferred the case to
Department 1 for reassignment.

 

On June 10, 2024, this case was reassigned to Department 72.

 

Defendant moved for trial preference on August 2, 2024.
Plaintiff filed an opposition and Defendant filed a reply.

 

Legal Standard

 

Actions can be set for trial preference under several
circumstances.

 

First, “[a] party to a civil action who is over 70 years of
age may petition the court for a preference, which the court shall grant if the
court makes both of the following findings: 

 

(1) The party has a substantial interest in the action as a
whole. 

 

(2) The health of
the party is such that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the
party's interest in the litigation.”

 

(Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (a).)

 

Second, “[a] civil action to recover damages for wrongful
death or personal injury shall be entitled to preference upon the motion of any
party to the action who is under 14 years of age unless the court finds that
the party does not have a substantial interest in the case as a whole. A civil
action subject to subdivision (a) shall be given preference over a case subject
to this subdivision.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (b).)

 

Third, “[i]n its discretion, the court may also grant a
motion for preference that is accompanied by clear and convincing medical
documentation that concludes that one of the parties suffers from an illness or
condition raising substantial medical doubt of survival of that party beyond
six months, and that satisfies the court that the interests of justice will be
served by granting the preference.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (d).)

 

Fourth, “[n]otwithstanding any other provision of law, the
court may in its discretion grant a motion for preference that is supported by
a showing that satisfies the court that the interests of justice will be served
by granting this preference.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (e).)

 

When a court grants a request for a preference, “the court
shall set the matter for trial not more than 120 days from the date and there
shall be no continuance beyond 120 days,” except for a 15 day continuance in
certain specified circumstances.  (Code
Civ. Proc. § 36, subd. (f).)

 

Discussion

 

            Defendant
seeks a setting of preference under the third statutory ground.

 

            Bahram
Mashhood (“Mashhood”) is the managing member of Defendant. Defendant contends
that Masshood is also an individual Doe defendant. (Mashhood Decl. ¶ 2.)

 

            Mashhood
as Stage 4 cancer, a terminal illness that raises a substantial medical doubt
of Mashhood’s survival beyond six months. (Sanani Decl. ¶ 4.)

 

Plaintiff argues that Defendant has unduly delayed in
seeking trial preference and argues that Mashhood’s survival for six months
past the date of his diagnosis suggests that his medical prognosis has changed.
The Court disagrees with this argument. Mashhood still has Stage 4 cancer,
which still creates a substantial doubt about his survival for six months going
forward. The fact that he has not yet passed away does not diminish this risk.

 

Plaintiff requests that trial not be set before January 2025
because Plaintiff’s counsel has trials during the weeks of November 12,
December 9, December 16, and December 30. Defendant states that it agrees with
Plaintiff and wishes for trial to be set in February, 2025 or as soon as
possible thereafter. 

 

The day 120 days from September 19, the hearing date for
this motion, is Friday, January 17, 2025. That is the latest date that trial
could be set if trial preference is granted – the Court would not have
discretion to set a later date.  Nor
would the Court have discretion to continue it for more than 15 days beyond
that date, and could only grant this short continuance on a showing of good
cause.DEPARTMENT 72   TENTATIVE  RULING      MICHAEL AMIN,                                      Plaintiff,             v.     4525 ROSEMEAD BLVD., LLC,                                     Defendant.      Case No:     21STCV41076            Hearing Date:  September 19, 2024  Calendar Number:  2          Defendant 4525 Rosemead Blvd., LLC (“Defendant”) moves for  an order setting this case for trial preference.              The Court is willing to grant the motion, but if it does so  it must set trial no later than January 17, 2025.  Moreover, if the Court grants the motion, the  parties should be aware that the Court will lack discretion to grant any  continuance of this trial date for more than 15 days, even if all parties agree  to and request a continuance.   Alternatively, if Defendant withdraws the motion, the Court  is willing to set a trial on or about March 10, 2025.   The Court will discuss these scheduling issues with the  parties at the hearing. The Court encourages the parties to speak with one  another about the trial date prior to the hearing.   Background   This is a property case.   Plaintiff Michael Amin (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on  November 8, 2021, seeking specific performance to compel the sale of the  property located at 4525 Rosemead Boulevard, Pico Rivera, California 90660 (the  “Property”). Defendant is a limited liability company that owns the Property.   The Complaint raises claims for (1) breach of contract; and  (2) specific performance.   Bahram Mashhood (“Mashhood”) is the managing member of  Defendant. Defendant contends that Mashhood is also an individual Doe  defendant. (Mashhood Decl. ¶ 2.)               Mashhood  as Stage 4 cancer, a terminal illness that raises a substantial medical doubt  of Mashhood’s survival beyond six months. (Sanani Decl. ¶ 4.)   On March 4, 2024, Defendant notified the Court that Mashhood  had Stage Four cancer. Judge Stephen Goodrich in Department 39, where this case  was assigned, set trial for July 23, 2024. The Court invited Defendant to bring  an ex parte application to protect the trial date.   On May 15, 2024, the Court reassigned this case to Judge  Tony Richardson in Department 39. Defendant filed an ex parte application for  trial preference on June 3, 2024. On June 5, 2024, Judge Richardson recused  himself from this case, vacated all dates, and transferred the case to  Department 1 for reassignment.   On June 10, 2024, this case was reassigned to Department 72.   Defendant moved for trial preference on August 2, 2024.  Plaintiff filed an opposition and Defendant filed a reply.   Legal Standard   Actions can be set for trial preference under several  circumstances.   First, “[a] party to a civil action who is over 70 years of  age may petition the court for a preference, which the court shall grant if the  court makes both of the following findings:    (1) The party has a substantial interest in the action as a  whole.    (2) The health of  the party is such that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the  party's interest in the litigation.”   (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (a).)   Second, “[a] civil action to recover damages for wrongful  death or personal injury shall be entitled to preference upon the motion of any  party to the action who is under 14 years of age unless the court finds that  the party does not have a substantial interest in the case as a whole. A civil  action subject to subdivision (a) shall be given preference over a case subject  to this subdivision.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (b).)   Third, “[i]n its discretion, the court may also grant a  motion for preference that is accompanied by clear and convincing medical  documentation that concludes that one of the parties suffers from an illness or  condition raising substantial medical doubt of survival of that party beyond  six months, and that satisfies the court that the interests of justice will be  served by granting the preference.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (d).)   Fourth, “[n]otwithstanding any other provision of law, the  court may in its discretion grant a motion for preference that is supported by  a showing that satisfies the court that the interests of justice will be served  by granting this preference.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (e).)   When a court grants a request for a preference, “the court  shall set the matter for trial not more than 120 days from the date and there  shall be no continuance beyond 120 days,” except for a 15 day continuance in  certain specified circumstances.  (Code  Civ. Proc. § 36, subd. (f).)   Discussion               Defendant  seeks a setting of preference under the third statutory ground.               Bahram  Mashhood (“Mashhood”) is the managing member of Defendant. Defendant contends  that Masshood is also an individual Doe defendant. (Mashhood Decl. ¶ 2.)               Mashhood  as Stage 4 cancer, a terminal illness that raises a substantial medical doubt  of Mashhood’s survival beyond six months. (Sanani Decl. ¶ 4.)   Plaintiff argues that Defendant has unduly delayed in  seeking trial preference and argues that Mashhood’s survival for six months  past the date of his diagnosis suggests that his medical prognosis has changed.  The Court disagrees with this argument. Mashhood still has Stage 4 cancer,  which still creates a substantial doubt about his survival for six months going  forward. The fact that he has not yet passed away does not diminish this risk.   Plaintiff requests that trial not be set before January 2025  because Plaintiff’s counsel has trials during the weeks of November 12,  December 9, December 16, and December 30. Defendant states that it agrees with  Plaintiff and wishes for trial to be set in February, 2025 or as soon as  possible thereafter.  The day 120 days from September 19, the hearing date for  this motion, is Friday, January 17, 2025. That is the latest date that trial  could be set if trial preference is granted – the Court would not have  discretion to set a later date.  Nor  would the Court have discretion to continue it for more than 15 days beyond  that date, and could only grant this short continuance on a showing of good  cause.