  Case Number:  22AHCV00123    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



XUEYUN ZOU, et al., 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
YAO GUO
   aka VANESSA YAO GUO, aka VANESSA GUO, aka GUO BAOZHI, aka YUKI GUO,
  et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  22AHCV00123
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF DL TRUCKING INC. AND CROSS-DEFENDANT DONGHONG
   DENG’S MOTION TO QUASH SUBPOENA 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
January
   31, 2024




 


 


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On March 4, 2022, plaintiffs Xueyun Zou
(“Zou”) and DL Trucking, Inc. (“DL Trucking”) filed this action against
defendants Yao Guo (“Guo”), individually and as trustee of the Guo Protection
Trust, and Gosdom, Inc. (“Gosdom”). In 2019, Guo allegedly portrayed herself as
a movie producer of the films “Wally’s Wonderland” and “Fast & Furious 9”
and fraudulently induced Plaintiff, who is 80-years old, into “investing”
$400,000 in the production of those movies. These investments were memorialized
in a Loan & Security Agreement and a Secured Promissory Note. 
On August 29, 2023, DL Trucking filed
the First Amended Complaint. The FAC omitted Zou as a plaintiff after the
Honorable Colin P. Leis sustained Guo and Gosdom’s demurrers to all of Zou’s
claims on the grounds that DL Trucking – not Zou – was a party to the Loan
& Security Agreement and the Secured Promissory Note. DL Trucking alleges
that it has received $30,000 from Guo but is still owed over $400,000 and 1% of
the net revenues related to Wally’s Wonderland. (FAC, ¶ 19.)
On October 18, 2023, Gosdom filed a
cross-complaint against Zou’s children, Keqing Deng (“K. Deng”) and Donghong
Deng aka Jennifer Deng (“D. Deng”). Gosdom claims that Guo was “duped into
making investment and loans” to nonparties Remington Chase and Kevin Robl, who
held themselves out to be “elite” film financers but were allegedly running a
Ponzi scheme. Gosdom claims that it paid $110,000 to DL Trucking and alleges
that D. Deng and K. Deng misappropriated $80,000. Gosdom claims that D. Deng
portrayed herself as an officer of DL Trucking and instructed Gosdom to make
payments to D. Deng’s brother, K. Deng, for tax purposes. 
On December 5, 2023, the clerk, at Gosdom’s
request, entered default against K. Deng. 
On January 5, 2024, DL Trucking and D.
Deng (collectively, “Moving Parties”) filed this motion to quash Gosdom’s deposition
subpoena to East West Bank, which seeks all documents relating to K. Deng’s
bank accounts from January 2019 to the present, including copies of all
cancelled checks written to D. Deng or DL Trucking. A notice to consumer was
mailed to K. Deng at 209 Avenida Melisenda in San Dimas, California (the “San
Dimas Address”), on December 8, 2023. Moving Parties argue that the notice to
consumer was defective because K. Deng does not live at the San Dimas Address. According
to Zou and D. Deng, who are K. Deng’s mother and sister, respectively, K. Deng
lives in China and has never lived at the San Dimas Address; instead, only Zou
and D. Deng reside at the San Dimas Address. Therefore, Moving Parties contend,
the subpoena is void. DL Trucking and D. Deng also argue that the subpoena
violates D. Deng and DL Trucking’s right to privacy and contend that the
subpoena should be limited to documents from December 6, 2019, to the present,
and exclude any bank records not connected to the subject matter of the case. 
In opposition, Gosdom argues that the
defective notice to consumer is irrelevant because Moving Parties lack standing
to object to the subpoena. A subpoenaing party must give special notice and
adhere to additional procedures when seeking the “personal records” of a
“consumer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1985.3.) Notice must be served on the consumer
“personally, or at his or her last known address, or in accordance with Chapter
5 (commencing with Section 1010) of Title 14 of Part 3, or, if he or she is a
party, to his or her attorney of record. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1985.3, subd. (b)(1).)
 These additional requirements are
intended to protect that person's right of privacy and allow the person the
opportunity to seek a court order to quash or limit the subpoena before the
records are disclosed. (Sasson v. Katash (1983) 146 Cal.App.3d 119,
124.) Failure to comply with those requirements “shall be sufficient basis for
the witness to refuse to produce the personal records sought by a subpoena
duces tecum.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1985.3, subd. (k).) 
Gosdom does not explain why it believes
it complied with section 1985.3 despite Zou and D. Deng’s declarations stating
that K. Deng does not live at the San Dimas Address, nor has he ever lived
there. (Deng Decl., ¶ 4.)  It would
undercut the purpose of section 1985.3 if a party could issue a subpoena for a
consumer’s personal records and send a notice to an incorrect address, then
insist that only that consumer had the standing to object on the grounds of
improper notice when the consumer was not given notice of the subpoena as
required by statute. 
Furthermore, Gosdom’s subpoena is
overbroad. Gosdom does not submit evidence that any payments were actually made
to K. Deng’s accounts at East West Bank and it is implausible that the sample
set of data in Guo’s declaration is the only information obtainable from
Gosdom’s banking institution. In addition, Guo only declares that K. Deng wired
$300,000 in December 2019 to the attorney-client trust account of counsel for Remington
Chase and Kevin Robl. (Opp., Guo Decl., ¶ 3,) To the extent that Gosdom claims
that it paid $110,000 to K. Deng from May 2020 to September 2021, this
assertion is unsupported by any evidence. 
Last, even if there was evidence to
support the existence of these transactions, only records from May 2020 to the
present and records reflecting transactions between K. Deng, Guo, Gosdom,
Moving Parties and Zou would be relevant or reasonably calculated to lead to
the discovery of admissible evidence.  
In light of the foregoing, the Court
GRANTS the motion to quash. 
Dated
this 31st
day of January, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 