 Case Number:  22STCV33082    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     March 6, 2024                        TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Jesus Toro Barragan et al. v. Joe Munoz,
et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV33082            
 
DEMURRER
TO COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Abel Orozco
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff, Jaime
Ocampo, 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a wage and hour action that was filed on October 10, 2022.
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants failed to pay regular wages and overtime, and
to provide meal and rest periods as required by law. 
 
Defendant Abel Orozco demurs to the
Complaint in its entirety. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant Abel Orozco demurs to the
Complaint in its entirety. 
 
On December 19, 2022, Defendant
filed a demurrer contending that Plaintiffs’ claims should be dismissed because
(1) the action was subject to a bankruptcy stay in a bankruptcy proceeding
concerning Next Stage Engineering, LLP; (2) Plaintiffs failed to join Next
Stage as an indispensable party; and (3) Plaintiffs were unlicensed
contractors, and not employees. (December 19, 2022 Demurrer to Complaint.) The
Court overruled Defendant’s Demurrer on July 5, 2023, finding that the
bankruptcy proceeding would not require dismissal even if Defendant had
established that he is the debtor, that Defendant had not established indispensability,
and that the pleadings and judicially noticeable matter did not establish that
Plaintiffs were unlicensed contractors. (July 5, 2023 Minute Order.) 
 
Here, Defendant brings a motion
entitled “Amended Demurrer to Complaint” which reasserts that the action is
subject to a bankruptcy stay and that Next Stage has not been joined as an
indispensable party. 
Code of Civil Procedure section
1008 governs any motion which seeks reconsideration of prior Court orders or
renews an application for an order which was not unconditionally granted. This
section states, in relevant part:
 
 (a)
When an application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and
refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms,
any party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the
party of written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different
facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or court that
made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior
order. The party making the application shall state by affidavit what
application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions
were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed
to be shown.
 
(b) A party who originally made an
application for an order which was refused in whole or part, or granted
conditionally or on terms, may make a subsequent application for the same order
upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, in which case it shall be
shown by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge,
what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts,
circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown. For a failure to comply with
this subdivision, any order made on a subsequent application may be revoked or
set aside on ex parte motion.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 1008 (a)-(b).) Here, Defendant makes no
attempt to demonstrate what new or different facts, circumstances, or law would
require reconsideration of the Court’s July 5, 2023 order under subdivision
(a), or would permit a renewed motion under subdivision (b). 
 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Amended Demurrer to Complaint is OVERRULED as an improper Motion
for Reconsideration or Renewed Demurrer. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  March 6, 2024                                    ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 