  Case Number:  20STCV03704    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     March 6, 2024                        TRIAL
DATE: April 16, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Ryan Suavet, et al. v. DRNK Coffee + Tea
Franchising, LLC
 
CASE NO.:                 20STCV03704            
 
MOTION
TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL (x2) 

 
MOVING PARTY:               Attorneys Jeffrey Riffer, Katherine Kunberger, and
Karen Ephraim, Counsel for Defendants (1) DRNK Coffee + Tea Franchising, LLC
and (2) Thomas Nariman
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendants (1)
DRNK Coffee + Tea Franchising, LLC; and (2) Thomas Nariman; Declaration filed
on behalf of Plaintiffs Ryan Suavet, Laetitia Suavet Vinciguerra, and Think I
Got It, LLC
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
01/29/20: Complaint filed.
·        
12/10/20: First Amended Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for breach of contract. Plaintiffs allege that
Defendants breached a franchise agreement with Plaintiffs to open a coffee
shop. 
 
Attorneys Jeffrey Riffer, Katherine
Kunberger, and Karen Ephraim, Counsel for Defendants DRNK Coffee + Tea
Franchising, LLC and Thomas Nariman, move to be relieved as counsel. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Attorneys
Jeffrey Riffer, Katherine Kunberger, and Karen Ephraim’s Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel for Defendant DRNK Coffee + Tea Franchising, LLC is GRANTED.
 
            Attorneys
Jeffrey Riffer, Katherine Kunberger, and Karen Ephraim’s Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel for Defendant Thomas Nariman is GRANTED.
            This
ruling is conditioned on Moving Counsel serving notice of this ruling on all
parties within 10 days of this order. 
 
The Court, on its own motion,
schedules an Order to Show Cause Re: Defendants DRNK and Nariman’s Retention of
New Counsel for 8:30 AM on April 9, 2024. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Attorneys Jeffrey Riffer, Katherine
Kunberger, and Karen Ephraim, Counsel for Defendants DRNK Coffee + Tea
Franchising, LLC and Thomas Nariman, move to be relieved as counsel. 
 
Moving counsel filed all three required forms (MC-051,
-052, and -053) as to both Defendants, and included a proof of service as
required by California Rules of Court rule 3.1362(d).  Moving
counsel’s declaration states that Defendants were served by mail at their last
known address, and that their address was confirmed by in-Court testimony.
(MC-052 ¶ 3.) 
 
In general, an attorney may withdraw with
or without cause so long as the withdrawal would not result in undue prejudice
to the client’s interest – i.e., counsel cannot withdraw at a critical point in
the litigation, because that would prejudice client, but can withdraw
otherwise. (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal. App. 4th 904,
915.) The court has discretion to deny an attorney’s request to withdraw where
the withdrawal would work an injustice or cause undue delay in the proceeding,
but the court’s discretion in this area is one to be exercised reasonably. (Mandell
v. Superior Court (1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 1, 4.)   
 
Here, Phase I of trial in this matter
commenced on January 2, 2024, and temporarily adjourned on January 17, 2024.
(See January 2, 2024 Minute Order; January 17, 2024 Minute Order.) Trial is
currently set to resume on April 16, 2024. (MC-052 ¶ 6b.) The risk of prejudice
to Defendants is therefore extremely high, as Defendants face the possibility
of being without counsel in the middle of trial. Moving Counsel declares only that
there has been an irreparable breakdown in the attorney-client relationship
that makes continuation of representation unreasonably difficult. (MC-052 ¶ 2.)
Moving Counsel does not describe the circumstances giving rise to this motion
in detail, as they claim the matter is privileged and confidential. (Id.)
Moving Counsel only states that “one or more of the factual circumstances
described in Cal. Rule Prof. Conduct 1.16(b) exist, such that withdrawal is appropriate.”
(Id.) This rule permits an attorney to withdraw from representation of a
client, subject to approval by the Court, if:
 
(1) the client insists upon presenting a
claim or defense in litigation, or asserting a position or making a demand in a
non-litigation matter, that is not warranted under existing law and cannot be
supported by good faith argument for an extension, modification, or reversal of
existing law;
(2) the client either seeks to pursue a
criminal or fraudulent* course of conduct or has used the lawyer’s services to
advance a course of conduct that the lawyer reasonably believes* was a crime or
fraud;
 
(3) the client insists that the lawyer
pursue a course of conduct that is criminal or fraudulent;*
 
(4) the client by other conduct renders it
unreasonably difficult for the lawyer to carry out the representation
effectively;
 
(5) the client breaches a material term of
an agreement with, or obligation, to the lawyer relating to the representation,
and the lawyer has given the client a reasonable* warning after the breach that
the lawyer will withdraw unless the client fulfills the agreement or performs
the obligation;
 
(6) the client knowingly* and freely
assents to termination of the representation; 
 
(7) the inability to work with co-counsel
indicates that the best interests of the client likely will be served by
withdrawal;
 
(8) the lawyer’s mental or physical
condition renders it difficult for the lawyer to carry out the representation
effectively; 
 
(9) a continuation of the
representation is likely to result in a violation of these rules or the State
Bar Act; or 
 
(10) the lawyer believes in good faith,
in a proceeding pending before a tribunal, that the tribunal will find the
existence of other good cause for withdrawal.
 
(Cal.
R. Prof. Conduct Rule 1.16(b).) As this recitation demonstrates, Rule 1.16(b) describes
a broad array of circumstances permitting an attorney to withdraw from
representation. Moving Counsel’s nonspecific citation to this rule therefore
offers little insight as to the basis of this motion. 
 
Defendants, having retained temporary
counsel to oppose these motions, argue that the motions should be denied
because there is no actual breakdown in the attorney-client relationship. This
argument is plainly belied by the mere existence of these motions. If the
attorney-client relationship were healthy, Moving Counsel and Defendants would
not be in this antagonistic position. 
 
Defendants also argue that Moving
Counsel’s perfunctory explanation is insufficient to support withdrawal. Defendants
principally rely on Manfredi & Levine v. Superior Court (Barles),
a 1998 appellate opinion from the Second District which affirmed the trial
court’s rejection of a motion by the plaintiffs’ counsel to withdraw based on
an unspecified conflict. (Manfredi & Levine v. Superior Court (Barles)
(1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1130-31.) However, as Moving Counsel argues in
reply, Manfredi is expressly based on the finding by both the trial
court and the Court of Appeal that the moving counsel had employed “every
delaying tactic known to humankind,” which gave the trial court good cause to
doubt moving counsel’s sincerity. (Id., at 1133-34.) Defendants
also state that they are virtually certain that they would be unable to secure
replacement counsel, and their defeat on both Plaintiffs’ claims and their
cross-claims would be all but guaranteed. (See Declaration of Thomas Nariman
ISO Opp. ¶¶ 5-6.) 
 
Here, however, Moving Counsel
contends that they have given the Court no cause to doubt their sincerity or
good faith. Moving Counsel also state that further developments since these
motions were filed have established an actual conflict of interest between
themselves and Defendants concerning matters currently before the Court.
(Supplemental Declaration of Jeffrey Riffer ISO Reply ¶¶ 11-13.) In making this
argument, Moving Counsel draws comparisons to key cases discussed—and
ultimately distinguished—by Manfredi to show that withdrawal should be
permitted. The Court of Appeal expressly stated in Aceves v. Superior Court that
“where the court accept[s] the good faith of counsel’s representations, the
court should find the conflict sufficiently established and permit withdrawal.”
(Aceves v. Superior Court (1996) 51 Cal.App.4th 584, 592, citing Uhl
v. Municipal Court (1974) 37 Cal.App.3d 526, 527-28 and Leversen v.
Superior Court (1983) 34 Cal.3d 530, 539.) Uhl likewise affirmed withdrawal
by a public defender before trial based on a conflict between the defendant and
another client represented by the public defender where no further details were
provided. (Uhl, supra, 37 Cal.App.3d at 535.) Further, in Leversen,
our Supreme Court permitted a public defender to withdraw mid-trial when
information acquired during representation created a conflict of interest
concerning one of the defendants and a defense witness who was identified as an
uncharged co-defendant. (Leversen, supra, 23 Cal.3d at 539-540.) Leversen is particularly instructive in its
observation that the defendant “was entitled to ‘the undivided loyalty and
untrammeled assistance of counsel of his own choice,’ free of any reservations
or irresolution” arising from a conflict of interest, in spite of the risk of
prejudice stemming from the loss of counsel mid-trial. (Id. at 540.)
That logic is no less sound in the civil context than it is in a criminal
proceeding.  
 
The Court also observes that Plaintiffs
have objected to permitting Moving Counsel from withdrawing because doing so
would delay the pending trial and thereby severely prejudice Plaintiffs.
Although Plaintiffs, by their own admission, do not have standing to contest
this motion, the Court makes note of Plaintiffs’ legitimate interest in
proceeding to trial on the date set. Moving Counsel is also correct
that, whatever the history of this case, these attorneys, as counsel for Defendants
DRNK and Nariman, have given the Court no basis to doubt their honesty. Thus,
even considering both Plaintiffs’ interests in proceeding to trial and
Defendants’ equally legitimate interest in having representation at that trial,
existing precedent compels the Court to accept the representations of Moving
Counsel that an actual conflict of interest has arisen that requires
withdrawal. 
 
//
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Attorneys Jeffrey Riffer, Katherine Kunberger, and Karen Ephraim’s Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel for Defendant DRNK Coffee + Tea Franchising, LLC is GRANTED.
 
            Attorneys
Jeffrey Riffer, Katherine Kunberger, and Karen Ephraim’s Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel for Defendant Thomas Nariman is GRANTED.
 
            This
ruling is conditioned on Moving Counsel serving notice of this ruling on all
parties within 10 days of this order. 
 
The Court, on its own motion,
schedules an Order to Show Cause Re: Defendants DRNK and Nariman’s Retention of
New Counsel for 8:30 AM on April 9, 2024. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: March 6, 2024                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.