  Case Number:  21STCV32561    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 
 



GLENN TIMMONS,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES,
  et al.
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


21STCV32561




Hearing Date:


September 19, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARYJUDGMENT [C.C.P. §437c];
  IN THE ALTERNATIVE, MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION OF ISSUES [C.C.P. §437c(f)] 
 



 
Background
Plaintiff Glenn Timmons (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on September
1, 2021 against Defendant County of Los Angeles (“County”). On April 4, 2023,
Plaintiff filed the operative Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”). The TAC alleges
causes of action for (1) discrimination in violation of FEHA, (2) failure to
accommodate in violation of FEHA, (3) failure to engage in the interactive
process in violation of FEHA, (4) harassment in violation of FEHA, and 
(5)
retaliation in violation of FEHA. 
The County now moves for summary judgment, or in the alternative,
summary adjudication of issues. Plaintiff opposes. 
Evidentiary Objections 
The
Court rules on the County’s evidentiary objections as follows: 
Objection
to Testimony Excerpt 1: overruled  
Objection
to Testimony Excerpt 2: sustained 
Objection
to Testimony Excerpt 3: sustained 
Objection
to Testimony Excerpt 4: overruled 
Objection
to Testimony Excerpt 5: sustained 
Objection
to Testimony Excerpt 6: sustained 
Objection
to Testimony Excerpt 7: overruled 
Objection
to Testimony Excerpt 8: sustained 
Objection
to Testimony Excerpt 9: sustained 
Objection
to Testimony Excerpt 10: sustained 
Objection
to Testimony Excerpt 11: sustained 
Objection
to Testimony Excerpt 12: sustained 
Objection
to Testimony Excerpt 13: sustained 
Objection
to Testimony Excerpt 14: sustained 
Legal Standard
“[A] motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all the papers
submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “A party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes
of action within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more
claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party contends that
the cause of action has no merit, that there is no affirmative defense to the
cause of action, that there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any
cause of action, that there is no merit to a claim for damages, as specified in
Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more
defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs. A
motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes
of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue
of duty.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(f)(1).) 
The moving party bears the initial burden of production to
make a
prima facie showing that there are
no triable issues of material fact. (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25
Cal.4th 826, 850.)
If the moving party carries this burden, the burden shifts to the opposing
party to make a prima
facie showing that a triable issue of material
fact exists. (Ibid.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the
party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in
favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,
Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) 
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (p)(2), “[a]
defendant or cross-defendant has met that party’s burden of showing that a
cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements
of the cause of action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established,
or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action. Once the defendant
or cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff or
cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto. The plaintiff or
cross-complainant shall not rely upon the allegations or denials of its
pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead,
shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material
fact exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” 
Discussion
A.    Allegations of the
TAC
In the TAC, Plaintiff alleges that he is a 57-year-old Asian-American man. (TAC, ¶ 8.) Plaintiff worked for the
County of Los Angeles Department of Public Works (“DPW”) since 1995. (TAC, ¶
11.) Plaintiff currently works as a Contract Monitor for the Environmental
Program Division. (TAC, ¶ 11.)
Plaintiff was
reclassified from a Maintenance Worker to a Contract Monitor in approximately
April of 2007. (TAC, ¶ 11.) Plaintiff alleges that the County “borrowed
Plaintiff’s job classification, item 4227 Contract Monitor, from a different
Division, the Internal Services Department (ISD),” and “[u]ntil this day, class
item 4227 is currently listed under ISD and not
under DPW, of the LA County Class Specifications site.” (TAC, ¶ 13.) Plaintiff
alleges that from 2007 to the present, he was tasked with duties from other job
classifications, but has never been fairly compensated for the same. (TAC, ¶¶
24-25.)
Plaintiff alleges that based on the problematic job
description for his position, he told
the County that he would ask for an “Additional Responsibility Bonus.” (TAC, ¶
26.) The County provided Plaintiff with retroactive compensation for working out
of class, but the revised classification stopped. (TAC, ¶ 27.) Plaintiff
alleges that when he “attempted to object to the modifications,” Defendants
retaliated against him by taking away his job duties, banning him from a
facility, reassigning him to a far-off location,
and adding new duties. (TAC, ¶ 28.) Plaintiff’s supervisors also allegedly
forced him to work in remote locations without restrooms or potable water. (TAC,
¶ 28.) 
 Plaintiff
also alleges that each contract monitor is assigned to work in communities
based on their race/ethnicity. (TAC, ¶ 34.) Plaintiff requested a reporting
location closer to home, which request was denied, while other coworkers were given
the option to choose their location. (TAC, ¶ 35.) Following his recent transfer
denial and reassignment to another primarily Asian neighborhood, Plaintiff reported
to his supervisor that the facility was filthy and unkept. (TAC, ¶ 38.) After
reporting this, the department refused to give Plaintiff a key to the restroom
and office. (TAC, ¶ 38.) In addition, following Plaintiff’s reassignment to a
new reporting location, Plaintiff no longer had access to an office space. (TAC,
¶ 39.) Instead, Plaintiff has been directed by his supervisors to use the
inside of County vehicles to do his office work, including all of his computer-based
reporting and other work. (TAC, ¶ 39.) Plaintiff alleges that because of this
action, ergonomic adjustments Plaintiff had for his disability were taken away,
such as adjustments to his office chair, computer keyboard, and computer mouse.
(TAC, ¶ 40.) 
Plaintiff further alleges that on June
18, 2020, he submitted an email to his supervisors requesting a work schedule
adjustment, which was denied. (TAC, ¶¶ 41-42.) When Plaintiff asked for the reasoning behind the denial, Plaintiff’s
supervisor stated “[i]f Plaintiff wanted that
change in schedule,
Plaintiff can go work for a different division.” (TAC, ¶ 42.) The County also
denied Plaintiff a promotion. (TAC, ¶ 43.) 

            Plaintiff
also alleges that his supervisor Steve Milewski (“Milewski”) belittled
Plaintiff, taunted Plaintiff, subjected Plaintiff to verbal abuse in front of
everyone, and disallowed Plaintiff to attend the headquarters for any reason. (TAC,
¶ 53.)  
            Plaintiff alleges that “[i]n
the first week of June 2019, he was called into a meeting by management n [sic]
HR manager: Mike Diceasare, Steve Milewski and Coby Skye, Steve’s boss, all
Caucasian male Management), who ambushed him, intimidated him, belittled him
and their union rep.” (TAC, ¶ 56.) Plaintiff alleges that management made it a
point to use Plaintiff as an example for his previous complaints, and that in
June 2020 he was transferred again to “Road yards (near home assignments).” (TAC,
¶ 57.) 
Plaintiff was out on
approved medical leave from March 2020 through June 7, 2020, and upon Plaintiff
returning to work on June 8, 2020, Plaintiff was allegedly subjected to
different terms and conditions of employment including but not limited to, his
work restrictions not being honored, receiving a different job description, and
receiving no response to his request for a close to home assignment position. (TAC,
¶ 55.)  
Plaintiff further
alleges that after
Plaintiff’s doctor gave him workspace restrictions upon returning from leave in June 2020, he was provided a number of physical
accommodations. (TAC, ¶
68.) Milewski
told Plaintiff that he did not have a real injury and that he would not honor
his restrictions. (TAC, ¶ 68.) In addition, Plaintiff’s work restriction papers
were not given to HR by his supervisors. (TAC, ¶ 68.) 
Plaintiff
further alleges that in June or July of 2020, Milewski and “Coby Skye” told
Plaintiff that he was going to undergo “Freeway therapy”; a term “where they
punish people with long commutes.” (TAC, ¶ 71.) Plaintiff’s new location was
South Whittier, far away from headquarters and far from Plaintiff’s home. (TAC,
¶ 71.) Plaintiff further alleges that he “was reassigned to new
reporting road yards,”
and that he was “denied a restroom key to access a restroom.” (TAC, ¶¶
72-73.) Plaintiff alleges that when he complained to Milewski about the lack of access to restrooms,
Milewski laughed at Plaintiff and remarked to another co-worker, “just get him
some Depends.” (TAC, ¶ 74.) Plaintiff alleges that he believes “Milewski was
ridiculing him because of his age and saying that he should use adult diapers
in place of having access to a restroom.” (TAC, ¶ 74.)
Plaintiff also
alleges that “[i]n July of 2020 Plaintiff was sent an email by…Milewski to
inspect for and report of human and animal feces at the yard, far outside his
scope of work.” (TAC, ¶ 75.) Plaintiff alleges that in the summer of 2020,
Plaintiff’s timesheet was manipulated by Milewski, who added vacation hours for
Plaintiff’s approved sick time. (TAC, ¶ 78.) 
In addition,
Plaintiff alleges he “was put on a reprimand memo every 6 months, every time he
would use sick leave.” (TAC, ¶ 82.) Plaintiff was allegedly punished for using
sick time on September 1, 2020. (TAC, ¶ 84.) Plaintiff further alleges that “[i]n
the fall of 2020, after reporting a contract violation that Steve Milewski had
known but failed to report, Plaintiff was reassigned to another further work
location, this time San Pedro.” (TAC, ¶ 85.) 
B.    First Cause of Action for Discrimination 
In
the motion, the County asserts that “[Plaintiff] cannot establish a triable
issue of material fact of discrimination under the FEHA…” (Mot. at p.
14:11-12.) “It is an unlawful employment practice…(a) [f]or an
employer, because of the…race, religious creed, color, national origin,
ancestry, physical disability, mental disability, medical condition, genetic
information, marital status, sex, gender, gender identity, gender expression,
age, sexual orientation, or veteran or military status of any person, to refuse
to hire or employ the person…or to bar or to discharge the person from
employment…or to discriminate against the person in compensation or in terms,
conditions, or privileges of employment.” (Gov.
Code, § 12940, subd. (a).) 
California applies the burden-shifting
formula set forth in McDonnell
Douglas Corp. v. Green (1973) 411
U.S. 792, 802,[1]
under which a plaintiff must first establish a prima facie case
of  discrimination by showing
that: (1) he or she was a member of a
protected class, (2) that he or she was qualified for and performing
competently in the position she held, (3) he or she suffered an adverse
employment action, and (4) conduct by the employer suggesting that it is more
likely than not that the adverse employment action was due to a discriminatory
motive. (Guz v. Bechtel National, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 355.) If the plaintiff establishes a prima facie case,
the burden shifts to the employer to rebut the
presumption of discrimination by
offering a legitimate nondiscriminatory reason for the adverse employment
action. (Ibid.) If the
employer meets this burden, the presumption of discrimination disappears, and the burden shifts back to the
plaintiff to produce evidence that the employer’s reasons for the adverse
employment action were a mere pretext for discrimination.
(Id. at p. 356.) 
First,
the County asserts that “[Plaintiff] has failed to set forth any ultimate facts setting forth a
prima facie case of disability, race, and/or age discrimination. He is required
to set forth some fact demonstrating that he was subjected to discrimination
because of his various protected classifications. The fact that [Plaintiff] did
not like his assignments is not enough.” (Mot. at pp. 14:27-15:2 [emphasis
omitted].) 
However, in the first cause of action for discrimination, Plaintiff
alleges that “[i]n or about 2015, Plaintiff was struck while in his work
vehicle while working by a truck during his normal shift. Plaintiff injured his
neck and back during this accident. He promptly notified his supervisors, one
of which came to the accident site. This resulted in a bulging disc and a
pinched nerve that caused severe and radiating pain in his neck and lower
back.” (TAC, ¶ 101.) Plaintiff alleges that “when faced with…medical and
physical evidence, Defendants…did agree – that Plaintiff suffered from a
protected disability, which required reasonable accommodations.” (TAC, ¶ 106.)
Plaintiff alleges that “[t]he reasonable accommodations that Plaintiff needed
consisted of an ergonomic work chair, a short desk to sit at, a standing desk
to periodically stand to perform work, an ergonomic computer workstation, and
related ergonomic computer accessories.” (TAC, ¶ 107.) Plaintiff further
alleges that “[d]espite uncontroverted medical evidence establishing that
Plaintiff needed each of these accommodation [sic] so that her [sic] doctors
could control his condition, and so that work did not make it worse, Defendants
unceremoniously took them away.” (TAC, ¶ 108.) In addition, as discussed above,
in the “factual allegations” section of the TAC, Plaintiff alleges that
“[a]fter Plaintiff’s doctor gave him workspace restrictions upon returning from
leave in June 2020; he was provided a number of physical accommodations,
including at his cubicle in headquarters; his computer at headquarters
including ergonomics; and a new ergonomically correct chair for Plaintiff.
Plaintiff was told by Steve Milewski he did not have a real injury; and that he
would not honor his restrictions.” (TAC, ¶ 68.) The County does not appear to
address these allegations in its arguments in the motion pertaining to the
first cause of action.  
Next, the County cites to Yanowitz v. L'Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th
1028, 1054-1055, where
the California Supreme Court noted that “[a]s the high court recognized
in Harris, the
determination of what type of adverse treatment properly should be considered
discrimination in the terms, conditions, or privileges of employment is not, by
its nature, susceptible to a mathematically precise test, and the significance
of particular types of adverse actions must be evaluated by taking into account
the legitimate interests of both the employer and the employee. Minor or
relatively trivial adverse actions or conduct by employers or fellow employees
that, from an objective perspective, are reasonably likely to do no more than
anger or upset an employee cannot properly be viewed as materially affecting
the terms, conditions, or privileges of employment and are not actionable, but
adverse treatment that is reasonably likely to impair a reasonable employee’s
job performance or prospects for advancement or promotion falls within the
reach of the antidiscrimination provisions of sections
12940(a) and 12940(h).” 
The County asserts that here, Plaintiff’s “various
claims are petty and unsubstantiated – like being ‘banished’ from Headquarters
(even though this work rule applied to all of DPW’s field personnel).” (Mot. at
p. 15:10-12.) But as discussed, the County does not appear to address
Plaintiff’s allegations of discrimination based on his alleged disability in
the County’s arguments pertaining to the first cause of action.  
 
The County also asserts that Plaintiff “ignores the [Los Angeles
County Employee Relations Commission] arbitration and the conclusion that he is
not entitled to an Additional Responsibility Bonus. This also nullifies his
claim, given that administrative and arbitration proceedings are also afforded
issue preclusion effect.” (Mot. at p. 15:13-15.) In support of this
proposition, the County cites to Castillo v. City of Los Angeles (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th
477, 481, where the Court
of Appeal noted that “[i]ssue preclusion prevents relitigation of issues argued and
decided in prior proceedings. The threshold requirements for issue preclusion are: (1) the issue
is identical to that decided in the former proceeding, (2) the issue was
actually litigated in the former proceeding, (3) the issue was necessarily
decided in the former proceeding, (4) the decision in the former proceeding is
final and on the merits, and (5) preclusion is sought against a person who was
a party or in privity with a party to the former proceeding. When those
requirements are met, the propriety of preclusion depends upon whether
application will further the public policies of preservation of the integrity
of the judicial system, promotion of judicial economy, and protection of
litigants from harassment by vexatious litigation. Issue preclusion is not
limited to barring relitigation of court findings. It also bars the
relitigating of issues which were previously resolved in an administrative
hearing by an agency acting in a judicial capacity.” (Internal quotations
and citations omitted.) The Court notes that although the County cites to Castillo, the County does not discuss or
apply any of the threshold requirements for issue
preclusion to the claims at issue here. Thus, the Court does not find that the
County has shown the first cause of action is barred under the doctrine of
issue preclusion. 
The County
also asserts that “in each case
the County identified a bona fide reason for making the employment decisions.
For example, assigning [Plaintiff] the ‘Rover’ position had a
non-discriminatory basis. DPW treated [Plaintiff] the same as the other
Contract Monitors.” (Mot. at p. 15:17-20.) The County submits the Declaration
of Steven Milewski, an employee of the Los Angeles County Department of Public
Works. (Milewski Decl., ¶ 1.) Mr. Milewski states that “[i]n about 2016, DPW
determined that the six (6) Contract Monitors would cover five (5) specific
groups of areas of the County of Los Angeles. We divided the unincorporated
areas of the County of Los Angeles into groups, with each monitor covering his
or her own group. There was a sixth area in the Santa Clarita and Malibu areas
that did not have many problems and therefore did not need regular monitoring.”
(Milewski Decl., ¶ 63.) Mr. Milewski states that “Timmons was frequently absent
from work, with frequent periods of sick time and absences. That meant that his
coverage area was without monitoring for those periods. Also, he frequently
called in sick with minimal or no notice, which made management of his workload
more difficult…Accordingly, in order to ensure that all areas were covered, my
management and I decided to reassign the main five (5) coverage areas among the
other five (5) Contract Monitors, and to make Timmons a ‘Rover’ and to have him
cover the sixth area as necessary. As a ‘Rover,’ Timmons was sent to different
areas of the County of Los Angeles, depending upon the needs at that time or he
would go to his sixth area if there was no need elsewhere.” (Milewski Decl., ¶¶
64-65.) 
But as discussed, the County
does not appear to address Plaintiff’s allegations that “[a]fter
Plaintiff’s doctor gave him workspace restrictions upon returning from leave in
June 2020; he was provided a number of physical accommodations, including at
his cubicle in headquarters; his computer at headquarters including ergonomics;
and a new ergonomically correct chair for Plaintiff. Plaintiff was told by
Steve Milewski he did not have a real injury; and that he would not honor his
restrictions…” (TAC, ¶ 68.) In the first cause of action, Plaintiff alleges
that “Plaintiff, for many years, has struggled to get his employer accommodate
[sic] the limitations caused by his physical disability.” (TAC, ¶ 104.) The
County’s discussion of the discrimination cause of action in the motion does
not appear to address Plaintiff’s claims of discrimination based on his alleged
disability. 
Based on the
foregoing, the Court does not find that the County has met its initial burden
of demonstrating that Plaintiff’s first cause of action for discrimination is
without merit. Thus, the Court denies the County’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the first cause of action.[2] 
C.    Second Cause of Action for Failure to Accommodate 
Next, the
County asserts that Plaintiff “cannot establish a triable issue of material
fact that the County failed to accommodate under the FEHA…” (Mot. at p. 16:2-3.)
“The elements of a failure to
accommodate claim are (1) the plaintiff has a disability under the FEHA, (2)
the plaintiff is qualified to perform the essential functions of the position,
and (3) the employer failed to reasonably accommodate the plaintiff’s
disability.” (Swanson v. Morongo Unified School Dist. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 954, 969 [internal
quotations omitted].) 
In the second cause of
action, Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, that “Plaintiff was
diagnosed with a physical disability in his back and neck as the result of a
bulging disc and pinched nerve that caused radiating pain as a result of a
vehicle on vehicle accident that Plaintiff was victim to while working and in
his work truck.” (TAC, ¶ 125.) Plaintiff alleges that “[u]pon returning to work
following the accident, Plaintiff was temporarily provided reasonable
accommodations in the form of an ergonomic work chair, a short desk to sit at,
a standing desk to periodically stand to perform work, an ergonomic computer
workstation, standing and sitting restrictions, not lifting over 25 pounds, and
related ergonomic computer accessories.” (TAC, ¶ 130.) Plaintiff alleges that
“Defendants stripped away Plaintiff’s reasonable accommodations despite the
ongoing and continuous need for them,” and that “following June 2, 2018
Defendants Failed to Accommodate Plaintiff taking his accommodations.” (TAC, ¶¶
132, 135.) 
In the motion, the
County asserts that “at least during the statutory period of July 16, 2019, to
July 16, 2020, [Plaintiff] stated that he had no need for accommodations.”
(Mot. at p. 16:21-22.) The County asserts that “[g]iven that [Plaintiff] filed
his claim on July 16, 2020, the applicable period for this lawsuit is July 16,
2019, to July 16, 2020…Everything allegedly occurring before July 16, 2019, is barred, and all after July 16, 2020 is
barred given [Plaintiff] failure to exhaust his administrative remedies.” (Mot.
at p. 13:11-16.) The County points to a “Complaint of Discrimination Under the
Provisions of the California Fair Employment and Housing Act” by Plaintiff
dated July 16, 2020. (Hausman Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. 14.)  
Before
suing for violation of FEHA, a plaintiff must file a timely and sufficient
administrative complaint with the California Department of Fair Employment and
Housing (“DFEH”) and receive a “right to sue” notice. (Gov.
Code, §§ 12960, 12965, subd. (b).)¿Under the former version of Government Code section 12960,¿a person claiming to be
aggrieved by an alleged unlawful practice¿under FEHA¿was obligated to file an
administrative complaint with the DFEH within one year from¿the date the
alleged unlawful practice¿or refusal to cooperate with FEHA occurred.¿(Former Gov. Code §12960, subd. (d), amended eff. Jan. 1, 2020,
by Stats. 2019, ch. 709 (Assembly Bill No. 9).)¿Government Code section 12960 now requires
administrative complaints to be filed with the DFEH within three years from the
date of the alleged unlawful practice or the date the refusal to cooperate
occurred. (See Gov. Code, § 12960, subd. (e)(5)
[“[a] complaint alleging¿a violation of¿Section 51.9 of the Civil Code¿or¿any other
violation of Article 1 (commencing with¿Section 12940) of Chapter 6
shall not be filed after the expiration of three years from the date upon which
the unlawful practice or refusal to cooperate occurred.”]) The County notes
that “[i]n order to
bring a civil action under FEHA, the aggrieved person must exhaust the
administrative remedies provided by law.” (Yurick
v. Superior Court (1989) 209
Cal.App.3d 1116, 1121.) 
As discussed, the County
asserts that “at least during the statutory period of July 16, 2019, to July
16, 2020, Timmons stated that he had no need for accommodations.” (Mot. at p. 16:21-22.) The County submits the Declaration of Gracie
Guillen, who holds the position of Administrative Services Manager I in the
Human Resources Division, Disability Management & Compliance Unit (“DMC
Unit”) of the Los Angeles County Department of Public Works (“DPW”). (Guillen
Decl., ¶ 1.) Ms. Guillen states that “[i]t is the DMC Unit’s practice to
regularly engage in the interactive process with injured employees by
conducting Interactive Process Meetings (‘IPM’) with them.” (Guillen Decl., ¶
16.) 
Ms. Guillen states that “since
at least July 2016, the DMC Unit has been unable to conduct a formal IPM with
Timmons. Due to circumstances beyond DPW’s control, which included Timmons’s
cancellations, DPW was only able to conduct one informal IPM with Timmons on
May 28, 2019.” (Guillen Decl., ¶ 17.) Ms. Guillen provides a “history of DPW’s
efforts to conduct IPMs with Timmons from July 2016 through the present day.” (See
Guillen Decl., ¶ 18.) Ms. Guillen states that on May 28, 2019, “[t]he Division
had a telephone meeting with Timmons (an informal IPM), and Timmons stated that
he did not require accommodation and that he would return without restrictions.”
(Guillen Decl., ¶ 18.) Ms. Guillen also states that 
on June 6, 2020, “Timmons sent an email
declining to engage in an IPM following his scheduled return to work. He
stated: ‘No restrictions at this time. Normal regular duties.’” (Guillen Decl.,
¶ 18.) 
In response to the
County’s assertion that the statutory period of this action is July 16, 2019 through
July 16, 2020, Plaintiff asserts that “[t]he claim runs for 3 years prior to
the date of the DEFH Complaint; meaning that claims that did not lapsed [sic] under
the former one-year rule, were still in effect. Filing on July 16, 2020 makes
the applicable period July 16, 2017-July 16, 2020.” (Opp’n at p. 19:3-7.) In
support of this assertion, Plaintiff notes that the California
Supreme Court in Quarry v. Doe I (2012) 53
Cal.4th 945, 956 found
that “[e]nlargement of the statutory period in which civil actions may be
brought constitutes a special category within the general topic of the
prospective or retroactive application of statutes. An extensive line of
authority on this subject has developed and we assume that the Legislature was
mindful of such existing law when it enacted legislation. As long as the former
limitations period has not expired, an enlarged limitations period ordinarily
applies and is said to apply prospectively to govern cases that are pending when,
or instituted after, the enactment took effect. This is true even though the
underlying conduct that is the subject of the litigation occurred prior to the
new enactment.” (Internal citations omitted.) 
But as noted by the County,
the Quarry Court found that “legislative enlargement of a limitations period does not revive lapsed claims
in the absence of express language of revival. This rule of construction grows
out of an understanding of the difference between prospective and retroactive application
of statutes.” (Quarry v. Doe
I, supra, 53 Cal.4th
at p. 955 [emphasis in original].) The Quarry Court noted that
“[o]nce a claim has lapsed (under the formerly applicable statute of
limitations), revival of the claim is seen as a retroactive application of the
law under an enlarged statute of limitations. Lapsed claims will not be
considered revived without express language of revival.” (Id. at p. 957.) Plaintiff does not point to
any express language of revival that is purportedly applicable here. 
Moreover, Plaintiff’s
“Complaint of Discrimination Under the Provisions of the California Fair
Employment and Housing Act” dated July 16, 2020 only appears to refer to
incidents that occurred “on or before” “June 16, 2019.” (Hausman Decl., ¶ 6,
Ex. 14.) As of this date, a person claiming to be aggrieved by an
alleged unlawful practice¿under FEHA¿was obligated to file an administrative
complaint with the DFEH within one year from¿the date the alleged unlawful
practice¿or refusal to cooperate with FEHA occurred.¿(Former Gov. Code §12960, subd. (d), amended eff. Jan. 1,
2020, by Stats. 2019, ch. 709 (Assembly
Bill No. 9).) As discussed, the statute was amended effective January 1, 2020. The
Court does not find that Plaintiff has refuted the County’s assertion that
Plaintiff’s claims outside of the July 16, 2019 to July 16, 2020 period are
barred.  
Plaintiff
also asserts in the opposition that “it is undisputed that Defendants did nothing to accommodate
Plaintiff’s request for a transfer ever. Accordingly, genuine issues exist that
preclude summary judgment being rendered in Defendant’s favor on Plaintiff’s
failure to accommodate claim.” (Opp’n at p. 14:1-3.) Plaintiff also asserts
that he “was asking for modified duty and COLA[3]
was refusing to provide it to him or investigate providing it to him.” (Opp’n
at p. 17:1-2.) However, Plaintiff does not cite any evidence to support these
arguments. It thus is unclear what purported evidence Plaintiff is relying on. 
Plaintiff’s supporting declaration
provides, inter alia, that “HR denied me a transfer away from Steve,
Christine, and Rosa. Janette was willing but Steve was in charge. I proceeded
to set up a special meeting with Steve’s Boss, Chris Sheppard. After that
meeting I was granted what was denied to me in the beginning.” (Timmons Decl.,
¶ 43.) To the extent Plaintiff is relying on this statement in support
of his second cause of action, Plaintiff’s declaration does not appear to specify
when any such request for a transfer was made. It is thus not shown that such
request was made between July 16,
2019 and July 16, 2020. In addition, Plaintiff appears to acknowledge that his
request for a transfer was granted. (Timmons Decl., ¶ 43.)
Plaintiff also states in his supporting declaration that “I need
certain accommodations and Steve Milewski went against Doctor’s orders and
constantly questioned or undermined my restrictions. He removed my ergonomics
at my cubicle…Steve works for the County. Steve did not accommodate me within
reasonable accommodations per CPOE guidelines, or as a protected class. They
did not accommodate me, and only transferred me out of office without clean
water, restroom and cubicle workplace.” (Timmons Decl., ¶¶ 41-42.) To the
extent Plaintiff is relying on such statements in support of his second cause
of action, Plaintiff does not state when Mr. Milewski removed the “ergonomics”
at Plaintiff’s cubicle. Plaintiff does not appear to show that such incidents took place
during the time period of July 16, 2019 to July 16, 2020.
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that the County has
demonstrated that the second cause of action for failure to accommodate is
without merit, and that Plaintiff has failed to raise a triable issue of
material fact as to this cause of action. 
D.    Third Cause of Action for Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process

The County
asserts that Plaintiff “cannot set forth a triable issue of material fact that
the County failed to engage in a good faith interactive process.” (Mot. at p.
16:24-26.) Pursuant to Government Code section 12940,
subdivision (n), it is an
unlawful employment practice “[f]or an
employer or other entity covered by this part to fail to engage in a timely,
good faith, interactive process with the employee or applicant to determine
effective reasonable accommodations, if any, in response to a request for
reasonable accommodation by an employee or applicant with a known physical or
mental disability or known medical condition.” (Gov.
Code, § 12940, subd. (n).) 
In the third cause of action, Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, that
he was “diagnosed with a physical disability in his back and neck as the result
of a bulging disc and pinched nerve that caused radiating pain as a result of a
vehicle on vehicle accident that Plaintiff was victim to while working and in
his work truck.” (TAC, ¶ 149.) Plaintiff alleges that “[i]nstead of engaging in
the interactive process, Defendants took adverse action against Plaintiff,
including the failure to accommodate his disabilities.” (TAC, ¶ 161.) Plaintiff
further alleges that “[t]here was nothing done by way of the interactive
process for the Whittier Yard nor his work vehicle to ensure that the
Defendants would try to accommodate his disabilities based on his new work
location and transfer from Headquarters, where he had an office with the
appropriate accommodations.” (TAC, ¶ 160.) 
In the motion, the County asserts that “[Plaintiff’s] ‘failure to
interact’ lacks any substantive basis. As noted, [Plaintiff] only participated
in a single ‘informal’ IPM on May 28, 2019, despite the DMC Unit’s years-long
effort to meet with him. Nothing whatsoever occurred during the relevant period
that would give rise to this cause of action.” (Mot. at p. 17:19-22.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiff asserts that “the interactive process
steps were not followed by the Defendants.” (Opp’n at p. 12:3.) Plaintiff cites
to “29 C.F.R. Pt. 1630, App. § 1630.9.” (Opp’n at
p. 12:14.) The Court notes that 29 Code of Federal
Regulations section 1630.9, subdivision (a) provides that “[i]t is unlawful
for a covered entity not to make reasonable accommodation to the known physical
or mental limitations of an otherwise qualified applicant or employee with a
disability, unless such covered entity can demonstrate that the accommodation
would impose an undue hardship on the operation of its business.” However, 29 Code of Federal Regulations section 1630.9 does
not appear to reference the steps listed at page 12:5-14 of Plaintiff’s
opposition. Plaintiff does not explain how this provision is applicable here. 
Plaintiff also asserts that “[t]here was no analysis of Plaintiff’s
job or particular functions. There was no consultation with [Plaintiff] about
potential accommodations. Finally, there was absolutely no consideration of the
preference of [Plaintiff] on his desired accommodations.” (Opp’n at p.
12:15-19.) But again, Plaintiff does not cite any evidence in support of this
assertion. It is unclear what purported evidence Plaintiff is relying on to
support this argument. 
Plaintiff’s opposition does not appear to address Ms. Guillen’s statements that “since at least July 2016, the DMC Unit
has been unable to conduct a formal [Interactive Process Meetings – ‘IPM’] with
Timmons. Due to circumstances beyond DPW’s control, which included Timmons’s
cancellations, DPW was only able to conduct one informal IPM with Timmons on
May 28, 2019.” (Guillen Decl., ¶ 17.) As discussed, Ms. Guillen provides a “history
of DPW’s efforts to conduct IPMs with Timmons from July 2016 through the present
day,” and states that on May 28, 2019, “[t]he Division had a telephone meeting
with Timmons (an informal IPM), and Timmons stated that he did not require
accommodation and that he would return without restrictions.” (Guillen Decl., ¶
18.) Ms. Guillen further states that on June 6, 2020, “Timmons sent an email
declining to engage in an IPM following his scheduled return to work. He
stated: ‘No restrictions at this time. Normal regular duties.’” (Guillen Decl.,
¶ 18.) These points do not appear to be addressed by Plaintiff. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that the County has
demonstrated that the third cause of action for failure to engage in the
interactive process is without merit, and that Plaintiff has failed to raise a
triable issue of material fact as to this cause of action. 
E.     Fourth Cause of Action for Harassment 
Defendant also asserts
that “[Plaintiff] cannot set forth a triable issue of material fact that the
County engaged in ‘harassment.’” (Mot. at p. 17:24-25.) To establish a
prima facie case for harassment, a plaintiff must show that “(1) he [or
she] was a member of a protected class; (2) he [or she] was subjected to
unwelcome [] harassment; (3) the harassment was based on
[membership in the protected class]; (4) the harassment unreasonably
interfered with his [or her] work performance by creating an intimidating,
hostile, or offensive work environment; and (5) the [employer] is liable for
the harassment.” (Thompson v. City of Monrovia (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 860, 876.)

In the fourth cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants’
conduct, as alleged, violated FEHA, Government Code
section 12900, et seq., and defendants committed unlawful employment
practices, including by: a. Harassing plaintiff and/or creating a hostile work
environment, in whole or in part on the basis of plaintiff’s age,
race/ethnicity, prior complaints and/or disability; race, national origin,
and/or color, in violation of Government Code section
12900 et seq.)…” (TAC, ¶ 167.)
            As to the fourth cause of action,
the County asserts that “Steve Milewski’s ‘Depends’ comment…is not actionable
and fails to constitute harassment as a matter of law. First, it occurred a
decade ago – well outside of the statutory period. Further, it occurred on one
occasion.” (Mot. at p. 18:20-22.) In the TAC, Plaintiff alleges that “[w]hen
Plaintiff again complained to, Steve Milewski, his supervisor in a in person
interaction, about the lack of access restrooms [sic], Mr. Milewski laughed at
Plaintiff and remarked to another co-worker, ‘just get him some Depends’.
Plaintiff believes that Mr. Milewski was ridiculing him because of his age and
saying that he should use adult diapers in place of having access to a
restroom.” (TAC, ¶ 74.) 
            In his supporting declaration dated
February 7, 2024, Mr. Milewski states that “[o]ver the years, Timmons has
raised an offhand comment I made over a decade ago. I recall being in a meeting
with between 20 to 30 male and female employees and an issue was brought up
about access to restrooms, and I said something like ‘Geez, we should get you
guys some ‘Depends’ for emergencies out there.’ My reference was to the ‘Depends’
brand of adult diapers. I said this in jest. I did not mean to offend anyone.”
(Milewski Decl., ¶ 31.) 
            In the opposition, Plaintiff does
not appear to address the County’s point that Mr. 
Milewski’s
comment regarding “Depends” occurred “over a decade ago.” (Milewski Decl., ¶
31.) Plaintiff’s memorandum of points and authorities in support of the
opposition does not appear to discuss Plaintiff’s harassment cause of action. In
his supporting declaration, Plaintiff states that “Steve started the whole
issue by creating a Hostile work environment. He targeted me because I would
ask questions and speak up. This dated back to when he made the Depends comment
to me. He made the Depends comment again in 2019-2020 when in reference to my
request for a bathroom key or near home assignment, he told Cathy in front of
me, ‘just get him some Depends.” (Timmons Decl., ¶ 73.) However, as noted by
the County, Plaintiff does not appear to claim that Mr. Milewski made this
statement between the relevant period of July 16, 2019 to July 16, 2020.
Rather, Plaintiff references “2019-2020.” (Timmons Decl., ¶ 73.)
            In addition, the County asserts that
in his deposition, Plaintiff “did not know when Milewski made the alleged
statement” regarding the “Depends.” (Reply at p. 4:14-15.) Plaintiff’s
deposition testimony provides, inter alia, as follows: “A[.] I’ll name
one of the actions. He told a female immediate supervisor to order me Depends
diapers. Q[.] And we’re talking about Mr. Milewski? A[.] Milewski. Q[.]
Milewski? A[.] Yes, sir. Q[.] So Mr. Milewski. Was that in the form of an
email? A[.] No. Verbal, in the office. Q[.] Okay. What date did that occur? A[.]
I can’t recall.” (Hausman Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. 12 (Timmons Depo.) at p. 109:-22.) The
County cites to Ericson v. Federal Express Corp.
(2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 1291, 1309,
where the Court of Appeal noted that “the court may disregard a declaration
prepared in opposition to a summary judgment motion that conflicts with the
declarant’s deposition testimony.” 
            In the memorandum of points and
authorities in support of the opposition, Plaintiff does not appear to point to
any alleged instances of harassment. Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action does
not appear to contain specific factual allegations of the alleged harassment.
In the TAC, Plaintiff alleges that “…as a…form of harassment, Defendants
reassigned Plaintiff’s reporting location further from his home, increasing
Plaintiff’s commute by an hour or more.” (TAC, ¶ 36.) In the motion, the
County notes that in Thompson v. City of Monrovia, supra, 186
Cal.App.4th at page 879,
the Court of Appeal concluded that “the Legislature intended that commonly
necessary personnel management actions such as hiring and firing, job or
project assignments, office or work station assignments, promotion or demotion,
performance evaluations, the provision of support, the assignment or
nonassignment of supervisory functions, deciding who will and who will not
attend meetings, deciding who will be laid off, and the like, do not come
within the meaning of harassment.” Plaintiff
does not address this legal authority in the opposition. 
            Based on
the foregoing, the Court finds that the County has demonstrated that the
fourth cause of action for harassment is without merit, and that Plaintiff has
failed to raise a triable issue of material fact as to this cause of action.
F.     Fifth Cause of Action for Retaliation
Lastly, the County
asserts that “[Plaintiff] cannot set forth a triable issue of material fact
that the County engaged in FEHA retaliation.” (Mot. at p. 19:17-18.) “[I]n order to establish
a prima facie case of retaliation under the FEHA, a plaintiff must show (1) he
or she engaged in a ‘protected activity,’ (2) the employer subjected the
employee to an adverse employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between
the protected activity and the employer’s action.” (Yanowitz
v. L'Oreal USA, Inc., supra,
36 Cal.4th at p. 1042.)
            In
the TAC, Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants retaliated against Plaintiff for
complaining about the conflict in salaries of the contract monitors. Defendants
retaliated against him by having Plaintiff’s actual supervisor, verbally
counsel him and deny his leave use.” (TAC, ¶ 43.) Plaintiff further alleges
that “Plaintiff asked for clarification regarding the overtime policy in July
of 2020. In response he was retaliated against, and he received a complaint and
investigation from HR that was filed against him, for broaching the overtime
subject.” (TAC, ¶ 80.) In addition, Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants taking
away of Plaintiff’s ergonomics was in direct retaliation for Plaintiff’s
numerous complaints regarding Defendants’ discriminatory conduct regarding his
working out of classification.” (TAC, ¶ 86.) 
            In
the motion, the County asserts that “[Plaintiff] has failed to set forth any
causal link between an ‘adverse employment action’ and his alleged protected
activity.” (Mot. at p. 19:24-25.) But the County does not appear to cite to any
evidence to support this argument or provide any analysis on this point. The
County does not appear to address Plaintiff’s allegations of retaliation in the
TAC with respect to this argument. 
            The
County also cites to Malais v. Los Angeles City
Fire Dept. (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th
350, 357, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[i]n Yanowitz, supra,
36 Cal.4th at pages 1049–1055, our Supreme Court
reviewed what constitutes an adverse employment action in a factually different
but analytically similar context of an employment discrimination lawsuit.
The court held that an ‘adverse employment action’ consists of
discrimination regarding compensation, terms, conditions, or privileges of
employment and disparate treatment in employment, specifically
requiring people to work in a discriminatorily hostile or abusive environment.”
(Internal emphasis omitted.) The County asserts that “[a]sking [Plaintiff] to
do his job is obviously not an adverse employment action.” (Mot. at p. 20:6.) But
the County does not appear to tie this argument to any alleged adverse
employment action taken against Plaintiff as a result of any alleged protected
activity. 
Based on the foregoing,
the Court does not
find that the County has met its initial burden of demonstrating that
Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action for retaliation is without merit. Thus, the
Court denies the County’s motion for summary adjudication as to the fifth cause
of action. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the County’s motion for summary judgment is
denied. The Court grants the County’s motion for summary adjudication as to the
second, third, and fourth causes of action of the TAC. The Court denies the
County’s motion for summary adjudication as to the first and fifth causes of
action of the TAC. 
The County is ordered to give notice of this
Order.¿ 
 
DATED:  September 19, 2024           
                                                                        ________________________________
Hon.
Teresa A. Beaudet 
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


