 Case Number:  24STCV10194    Hearing Date:   November 27, 2024    Dept:  17  
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



BOZHO
  DERANJA 
                           
         vs.
 
ERIC
  GREENE 
 
                                          


 Case No.: 
  24STCV10194
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  November 27, 2024



 
Defendant’s
motion to seal is GRANTED.
 
            On
4/23/2024, Plaintiff Bozho Deranga (Plaintiff) filed suit against Eric Greene
(Defendant), alleging unlawful detainer. 
 
            On
9/30/2024, pro per Defendant moved to seal certain documents attached to his
motion for sanctions. 
 
Discussion  
 
            Defendant
seeks to seal documents: 
 
-        
Exhibit L, Document 1: A redacted
invoice from Defendant’s consulting business, which contains information about
hourly rates, with names and business information redacted. 
 
-        
Exhibit L, Document 2: A redacted email
correspondence with a consulting client related to the invoice, demonstrating
the authenticity of the invoice and the business relationship, with names and
business information redacted. 
 
-        
Exhibit L, Document 3: A redacted
screenshot from Defendant’s nonprofit organization’s CRM, showing over 2,000
potential donors, with names and business information redacted. 
 
Defendant
argues that these records should be sealed because they contain sensitive
business information related to Defendant’s consulting work and nonprofit
fundraising activities. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff notes that the documents themselves have already been
redacted. As such, the documents have already protected confidential business
information. 
 
However, the
Court already granted Defendant’s oral motion to seal the case in its entirety.
As such, all filings have been implicitly deemed sealed. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s motion to seal is granted. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  November   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 