  Case Number:  22STCV31381    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   October
24, 2023                                            
 
CASE NAME:           Tri-West, Ltd. v. Kolay Flooring
International, LLC, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                22STCV31381

 
MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO FILE A COMPULSORY CROSS-COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendants
Kolay Flooring International, LLC, MODM Kolay 
Manufacturing,
LLC 
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Tri-West, Ltd.
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      Leave
to file a cross-complaint against Tri-West, Ltd., Allen Gage, Larry Johnson,
Dave White, and ROES 1 through 50, inclusive.
 
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Motion
for Leave to File Cross-Complaint is GRANTED.
 
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
Plaintiff Tri-West filed the Complaint on September 26,
2022, against Defendants Kolay Flooring
International, LLC (Kolay), MODM Kolay Manufacturing, LLC (Modm), and Daniel
Mitchell (Mitchell) alleging (1) breach of
contract, (2) fraud, (3) conversion, (4) unjust enrichment, (5) common counts,
(6) theft under Penal Code section 496, and (7) UCL violations. Mitchell
filed an Answer on November 22, 2022. Kolay and Moda filed an Answer on
December 1, 2022. But, default had already been entered against Kolay and Moda.
The court set aside default on February 16, 2023. 
 
Tri-West is a flooring distributor and Kolay purports to be a
flooring manufacturer.  In May 2021, Kolay misrepresented to Tri-West that newly-opened manufacturing
facility in Las Vegas, Nevada can begin promptly producing multiple
high-quality flooring products meeting certain specifications and in
significant volumes.  Kolay agreed to produce 14 products and produce one million feet
of product per month.  It also agreed to produce and deliver product upon
receipt of advance payment deposits.   
 
In reliance on these statements, in August 2021, Tri-West
and Kolay
entered a Purchase and Supply Agreement (“Agreement”) for the purchase of
products from Kolay.  Tri-West agreed to advance pay 50% of all purchase
orders and pay the rest upon delivery while Kolay agreed to use all reasonable efforts to meet requested
delivery dates.  If Kolay could not timely fulfill an order, Tri-West could cancel
the purchase order and obtain a refund.   
 
On August 12, 2021, Tri-West wired $557,160.80 as advances
for 29 purchase orders.  Kolay guaranteed to use this money to produce over 500,000
square feet of flooring at its Las Vegas factory, and over 8,000 trim pieces
for that flooring.  Kolay spent months promising that the flooring would ship. 
When a limited portion of the product did ship, it was defective and did not
lock properly.  Tri-West believes that Kolay is unable to produce the promised product. After
months of waiting, Tri-West cancelled the order and requested the refund. 
Kolay
representatives like Mitchell promised reimbursement in writing.  Kolay has not refunded the
money even after a written demand on August 19, 2022. 
 
Tri-West seeks recovery of the $557,160.80 in advance
payments, plus $500,000 in lost sales and profits, punitive damages,
restitution, disgorgement, treble damages, and attorney’s fees and costs. 
 
On July 10, 2023, Kolay and Modm (Moving Defendants) timely
filed the instant motion. Plaintiff timely filed an opposition on October 11,
2023. Moving Defendants timely filed a reply on October 17, 2023.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
A cross-complaint may be either permissive
or compulsory. Compulsory cross-complaints are based on allegations arising out
of the same transactions or occurrences as the causes of action which the
plaintiff alleges in his or her complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., (CCP) § 426.10,
subd. (c).)¿Compulsory cross-complaint causes of action must exist at the time
an answer to the original cross-complaint is required.¿(CCP § 426.30, subd.
(a).)¿ All other cross-complaints are permissive.¿(CCP § 428.10.) If a party
fails to file any cross-complaint before or when they file an answer, they must
move the court for leave to file a cross-complaint.¿ (CCP § 428.50.) The court
“shall” grant leave to file a compulsory cross-complaint, as long as the party
demonstrates that, notwithstanding being late, the motion for leave is brought
in good faith.¿ (CCP § 426.50.)¿The court “may” grant leave to file a
permissive cross-complaint “in the interest of justice at any time during the
course of the action.”¿ (CCP § 428.50, subd. (c).)¿¿ 
 
A policy of liberal construction of section
426.50 to avoid forfeiture of causes of action is imposed on the trial court.¿
(Silver Orgs. v. Frank (1990) 217
Cal. App. 3d 94, 98-99.) ¿A motion to file a cross-complaint at any time during
the course of the action must be granted unless substantial evidence of bad
faith is demonstrated. ¿(Ibid.)
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Compulsory vs.
Permissive
 
Moving Defendants contend their proposed cross-complaint is
compulsory because it arises out of the same transaction or occurrence as those
stated in the Complaint. Plaintiff argues that those causes of action against
the proposed individual cross-defendants are permissive because they are non-parties.
 
 
Here, the proposed cross-complaint is compulsory because it
asserts claims between the Moving Defendants and the Plaintiff that arise out
of the same transaction and occurrence as alleged in the underlying Complaint.
The court is unaware of authority that provides for a mixed cross-complaint.
Additionally, Plaintiff has cited no authority supporting its position that a
compulsory cross-complaint becomes a permissive cross-complaint if there are
parties in addition to the plaintiff named as cross-defendants. Specifically,
Plaintiff’s reliance on Banerian v.
O’Malley (1974) 42 Cal.App.3d 604 and American
Bankers Ins. Co. v. Avco-Lycoming Division (1979) 97 Cal.App.3d 732 are
unpersuasive because they do not concern a “mixed” cross-complaint and, indeed,
discuss that a compulsory cross-complaint is between a plaintiff and a
defendant.
 
Accordingly, Moving Defendants’ cross-complaint is
compulsory.
 
Bad Faith
 
Moving Defendants contend that they requested leave to file
its cross-complaint after conducting extensive witness interviews and document
review to determine they had a viable affirmative cross-complaint claim against
Plaintiff. Plaintiff argues that Kolay and Modm are not legitimately advancing
this cross-complaint to vindicate their rights, but as part of a defensive
litigation strategy.[1]
Moving Defendants reply that Plaintiff did not offer substantive evidence of
bad faith.
 
Here, Plaintiff has not shown Moving Defendants acted in bad
faith. First, Plaintiff has not shown that Moving Defendants’ request to set
PMQ depositions in November 2023 constitute bad faith. Indeed, Defendant notes
that the PMQ deposition schedule proposal in November 2023 related to witness
unavailability and counsel unavailability due to jury trial. [Reply at pp.
3:26-4:1; see also Hori Decl. ¶ 9.] Second, Plaintiff implies that Moving
Defendants’ motivation in filing the cross-complaint is as leverage to dismiss
the individual cross-defendants in exchange for dismissal of Defendant
Mitchell. [Hori Decl. ¶10.] 
 
Accordingly, Moving Defendants did not seek leave to file a
cross-complaint in bad faith.
 
Undue Prejudice
 
Moving Defendants contend that Plaintiff will not suffer
undue prejudice by allowing it to file a cross-complaint because trial may be
only delayed. Plaintiff argues that it will be prejudiced by an anticipated
continuance of the currently-set April 29, 2024 trial date and necessity to
conduct additional discovery.
 
Here, Plaintiff has not demonstrated it will be unduly prejudiced by Moving Defendants’
cross-complaint.[2]

 
Accordingly, there is no undue prejudice in allowing Moving
Defendants to file a cross-complaint.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.      Motion
for Leave to File Cross-Complaint is GRANTED.
 
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:             October
23, 2023                    __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


