 Case Number:  24TRCV00280    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
SYSLEE
  SCHAEL RAWLINSON, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV00280




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
AMERICAN
  HONDA MOTOR CO., INC.,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          December 6,
2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiffs Syslee Schael Rawlinson and Taiyo Nakama
Rawlinson
(1)  
Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint
(2)  
Motion to Strike
 
            The Court considered the moving, opposition,
and reply papers.
RULING
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE
TO AMEND as to the fifth cause of action for fraudulent concealment in the SAC.
            The motion to strike is GRANTED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND as to the claim for punitive damages.
BACKGROUND
            On January 26, 2024, Syslee Schael
Rawlinson and Taiyo Nakama Rawlinson filed a complaint against American Honda
Motor Co., Inc. for (1) violation of Civil Code §1793.2(d), (2) violation of
Civil Code §1793.2(b); (3) violation of Civil Code §1793.2(a)(3); (4) breach of
implied warranty of merchantability; and (5) fraudulent inducement –
concealment.
            On May 14, 2024, plaintiffs filed a
FAC.
            On August 27, 2024, the Court
sustained with leave to amend defendant’s demurrer to the fifth cause of action
and granted the motion to strike the claim for punitive damages with leave to
amend.
            On September 16, 2024, plaintiffs
filed a SAC.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Demurrer
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
Strike
“The court may, upon a motion . . .
, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:  (a) Strike any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading.  (b)
Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”  CCP §436(b).
            CCP §431.10 states:  “(a) A material allegation in a pleading is
one essential to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the
pleading without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or defense.  
(b) An immaterial allegation in a
pleading is any of the following:  (1) An
allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense.  (2) An allegation that is neither pertinent
to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.  (3) A demand for judgment requesting relief
not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.  
(c) An ‘immaterial allegation’
means ‘irrelevant matter’ as that term is used in Section 436.”
The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP §437.
DISCUSSION
Demurrer
Defendant American Honda demurs to the
fifth cause of action for fraudulent inducement-concealment in the SAC on the
ground that it fails to allege sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action.
The SAC alleges that on May 30,
2020, plaintiffs entered into a warranty contract with defendant Honda
regarding a 2020 Honda Odyssey.  SAC, ¶6.  The warranty contract contained various
warranties, including bumper-to-bumper warranty, powertrain warranty, and emission
warranty.  Id., ¶7.
As to repair history, plaintiffs
allege that on May 1, 2023, with 30,000 miles on the odometer, plaintiffs
presented the subject vehicle to defendant’s authorized repair facility with
various concerns, including the sensing system, electrical system, and/or the
engine with the vehicle’s rearview camera malfunctioning with a cloudy display
and/or “rearview camera not available” message will display and the radio
randomly switches stations.  Also, the
gauge model goes blank and/or randomly reboots on its own when driving on the
freeway with nothing in front or near the vehicle.  Id., ¶22. 
On December 21, 2023, with 39,825 miles, plaintiffs presented the
vehicle to defendant’s authorized repair facility with various concerns,
including the engine, transmission, and/or sensing system with the vehicle’s
lane departure turns on when plaintiffs is driving on the freeway in their own
lane and pulled out of the correct lane. 
The vehicle also intermittently displays “brake” on dash when driving or
parking when plaintiff has their foot on the brake and makes a loud grinding
noise.  Id., ¶23.  Thereafter, the vehicle continued to
experience symptoms of the defects despite defendant’s representation that the various
defects were repaired.  Id., ¶24.
5th cause of action for
fraudulent inducement - concealment
“’The required elements for fraudulent
concealment are (1) concealment or suppression of a material fact; (2) by a
defendant with a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant
intended to defraud the plaintiff by intentionally concealing or suppressing
the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not have acted as
he or she did if he or she had known of the concealed or suppressed fact; and
(5) plaintiff sustained damage as a result of the concealment or suppression of
fact.’”  Hambridge v. Healthcare
Partners Medical Group, Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 124, 162 (citation
omitted).
“[T]o establish fraud through
nondisclosure or concealment of facts, it is necessary to show the defendant
‘was under a legal duty to disclose them.’” 
OCM Principal Opportunities Fund v. CIBC World Markets Corp.
(2007) 157 Cal. App. 4th 835, 845. 
Nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud when:  (1) there is a fiduciary relationship between
the parties; (2) the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not
known to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant actively conceals a material fact
from the plaintiff; and (4) the defendant makes partial representations but
also suppresses some material facts.  Los
Angeles Memorial Coliseum Commission v. Insomniac, Inc. (2015) 233 Cal.
App. 4th 803, 831.
Rules of specifically pleading how,
when, where, to whom, and by what means, misrepresentations were communicated,
is intended to apply to affirmative misrepresentations, and not to concealment.  See Alfaro v. Community Housing
Improvement System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal. App. 4th
1356, 1384.
Under this cause of action, the SAC
alleges that the subject vehicle contains a defective computerized
driver-assisting safety system, which includes adaptive cruise control, lane
departure warnings and steering inputs, and autonomous braking (meant to avoid
front-end collisions by detecting vehicle speed and the speed of other vehicles
and objects on the road – and can automatically deploy the brakes to avoid a
front-end collision).  Honda calls this
computerized driver-assisting safety system, “Honda Sensing.”  It relies on a radar sensor, an interior
camera, along with computers and other technology.  The autonomous braking system within Honda
Sensing is called Collision Mitigation Braking System (or CMBS).  SAC, ¶63. 
The Sensing system suffers from a defect that causes the various
subsystems within it to malfunction dangerously while the vehicles are
driven.  This defect impedes the systems’
ability to reliably and accurately detect and appropriately respond to
conditions on the roadway, causing malfunctions of the adaptive cruise control,
the lane-departure system, and CMBS. 
Id., ¶64.  As a result of the
Sensing defect, Honda vehicles brake abruptly even though there is nothing
around that risks a collision, warning lights display without explanation,
brakes deploy seemingly randomly, and parts of the system malfunction.  These malfunctions pose a safety risk.  Additionally, the speed of the vehicle may
abruptly change, and warnings may distract the driver.  Id., ¶65. 
Honda’s response has been that no repairs are available.  Id., ¶66.
Defendant argues that the claim remains
barred by the three-year statute of limitations under CCP §338(d).  Defendant asserts that absent sufficient
tolling allegations, the statute of limitations began to run when plaintiffs “acquired”
the vehicle in May 2020 and expired three years later in May 2023.  Defendant also argues that plaintiffs “again
failed to plead facts sufficient to invoke delayed discovery.”  Defendant contends that plaintiffs fail to
allege “a single fact” about plaintiffs’ experiences with the alleged defects
within the warranty period and that plaintiffs vaguely identify two repair
attempts, which were three years or more from plaintiffs’ purchase of the
subject vehicle and fail to identify when they first discovered said defects,
what they did to learn about potential issues with the subject vehicle, and
Honda’s affirmative attempts to conceal such information from plaintiffs.  Defendant also argues that plaintiffs have not
sufficiently pled facts to support tolling.
Defendant further argues that the
claim is barred by the economic loss rule, citing to the California Supreme
Court’s recent decision in Rattagen v. Uber (2024) 17 Cal. 5th
1.
In opposition, plaintiffs argue
that they sufficiently alleged the elements. 
Plaintiffs further contend that the sensing defect is a material fact,
which poses safety risks and arose during the warranty period.  Plaintiffs further assert that the SAC does
not affirmatively show a statute of limitations defense as to the first through
fourth causes of action, which the Court notes, is not at issue in the
demurrer.  Plaintiffs do not address the
statute of limitations as to the fifth cause of action raised in the demurrer.
Plaintiffs further argue that the
economic loss rule does not bar plaintiffs’ fraud cause of action, citing to Dhital
v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal. App. 5th 828,
review granted February 1, 2023.
In reply, defendant points out that
the opposition “completely fails to address the timeliness of their fifth cause
of action.”  As to the economic loss
doctrine, defendant asserts that Dhital is inapt as the case is
currently pending before the California Supreme Court and only has weak
persuasive value.
The Court rules as follows:  The Court finds that the fifth cause of
action for fraudulent concealment is barred by the three-year statute of
limitations under CCP §338(d).  The
three-year statute of limitations began to run when plaintiffs acquired the
subject vehicle in May 2020 and expired in May 2023.  The complaint was filed in January 2024.  Although the Court had previously provided
leave to amend, plaintiffs have still not sufficiently alleged delayed
discovery or tolling.  Plaintiffs did not
even address the statute of limitations issue as to the fifth cause of action
in their opposition.
As for defendant’s argument as to
the economic loss rule, the Court declines to find that the economic loss rule
bars the claim.  As defendant asserted, Dhital
is under review by the California Supreme Court.  Further, Rattagan v. Uber, relied upon
by defendant, specifically did not address “claims of fraudulent inducement by
concealment claims as well as the potential interplay with remedies available
under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act.” 
Rattagan, supra, at 41 n.12.
Accordingly, the demurrer to the
fifth cause of action is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
Motion to Strike
Defendant requests that the Court
strike the prayer for punitive damages.
The motion is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE
TO AMEND in light of the ruling on the demurrer to the fraudulent concealment
cause of action.
ORDER

            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND as to the fifth cause of action for fraudulent concealment in
the SAC.
            The motion to strike is GRANTED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND as to claim for punitive damages.
Defendant is ordered to give notice
of ruling.