  Case Number:  19STCP04706    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
FRIEND
  OF CAMDEN, INC., 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
19STCP04706




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
BARBARA
  BRANDT, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          December 6,
2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Cross-complainants the SW Parties
Responding Party:                  Cross-defendant and plaintiff Friend
of Camden
Motion
for Leave to File a Second Amended Cross-Complaint
 
            The Court considered the moving and opposition
papers.
RULING
The
motion is GRANTED.   Cross-complainants are ordered to file a Second
Amended Complaint within five days.  It is
deemed served as of the date of this hearing.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
CCP §473(a)(1) provides, in
relevant part:  “The court may, in
furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any
party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any
other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer.  The court may likewise, in its
discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be
just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may
upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this
code.”
“This discretion should be
exercised liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors
resolution of all disputed matters in the same lawsuit.”  Kittredge
Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal. App. 3d 1045, 1047.
Under CRC Rule 3.1324(a), a motion
to amend a pleading shall (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or
amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from
previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what allegations in the previous
pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and
line number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3) state what
allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are
located.
Under CRC Rule 3.1324(b), a
separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify (1) the effect
of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the
facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the
reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.
Even if a good amendment is
proposed in proper form, a long, unwarranted and unexcused delay in presenting
it may be a good reason for denial.  In
most cases, the factors for timeliness are: 
(1) lack of diligence in discovering the facts or in offering the
amendment after knowledge of them; and (2) the effect of the delay on the
adverse party.  If the party seeking the
amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party,
the judge has discretion to deny leave to amend.  Hirsa
v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal. App. 3d 486, 490.  Prejudice exists where the amendment would
require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added
costs of preparation such as an increased burden of discovery.  Magpali
v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal. App. 4th 471, 486-488.
DISCUSSION
Cross-complainants
the SW Parties request leave to file a Second Amended Complaint to add six new
parties (Shirley Shapiro, Peter Shapiro, Alison Shapiro, MGM Management
Company, Michael John Klein, and Max Graham Miller) and nine new causes of
action (breach of contract-derivative, unjust enrichment-derivative,
fraud-direct and derivative, breach of fiduciary duty-derivative,
negligence-direct, breach of contract-direct, breach of fiduciary duty-direct,
promissory fraud, and equitable buy out). 
Cross-complainants note that on November 7, 2024, they filed amendments
to substitute in all cross-defendants as Roes 1-9.  
Cross-complainants
contend that they have diligently pursued discovery but that they did not learn
the facts giving rise to the new causes of action until about July 2024 when
they obtained many of the internal communications and other documents they had
been seeking from plaintiff FOC. 
Cross-complainants assert that from July to November 2024, the SW
Parties reviewed over 100,000 pages of documents that FOC and others produced,
which were produced “in a disorganized manner, many were duplicates and many others
did not include their attachments.”  Cross-complainants
argue that there will be no prejudice to FOC as trial is not scheduled until
March 2, 2026, and discovery is ongoing and all the additional cross-defendants
are affiliated with plaintiffs. 
Cross-complainants also contend that they have acted promptly in seeking
to file their SACC as they only recently discovered the facts giving rise to
the new claims in July 2024.
In
opposition, plaintiffs and cross-defendant FOC argue that the motion is
“untimely” and that cross-complainants have not acted with reasonable diligence
because documents produced in discovery show that defendants have been aware of
the claims, which are based on fees paid to Miller and Klein, since at least
2017.  Plaintiffs cite to an email dated
September 2017 regarding that “Graham Miller’s management company” and other
“professional fees” might not be “appropriate” and the possibility that VPE’s
expenses were “not in line with industry standards.”  Further, plaintiffs contend, defendants and
cross-complainants were furnished with a complete set of VPE’s financial
records more than sixteen months ago, and that such discovery has revealed no
evidence of wrongdoing by the FOC.  They
also argue that they will be prejudiced.
 
This case
involves the termination of a multi-decade relationship between the parties as
members of the business venture that owned a valuable high rise office
building.  When the building was sold in
the recent past it generated a net profit of over $30 million.  Plaintiff points out that it was worth double
that when Plaintiff desired to sell it.  The
parties are very suspicious of what has transpired in the past.  As they now move toward the final chapter of
this relationship, they have been engaged in a very involved, highly litigated
case.  There has been significant
discovery requests propounded and significant discovery disputes.  This has all delayed the disclosure of
information.  A vast amount of information
has been sought and exchanged.  The Court
does not find that the Cross-Complainants were dilatory in seeking leave to
amend.
The Court finds that cross-complainants
complied with CRC Rule 3.1324.  Further, “[l]eave to amend is in general
required to be liberally granted.”  Kolani
v. Gluska (1998) 64 Cal. App. 4th 402, 412 (citation omitted).  Also, cross-defendants have not sufficiently
shown that cross-complainants were dilatory or that cross-defendants will be
prejudiced.
Accordingly,
the motion is GRANTED.
ORDER
The
motion is GRANTED.
Cross-complainants are ordered to
file a Second Amended Complaint within five days.  It is
deemed served as of the date of this hearing.
Moving party is ordered to give
notice of the ruling.