  Case Number:  22GDCV00881    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



KRIKOR
   KASSABIAN, et al.,              Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
CITY OF
   GLENDALE, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22GDCV00881
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT CITY OF GLENDALE’S MOTION TO COMPEL
  DEPOSITION OF DEFENDANT FRUNZIK SARGSYAN
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
December
   12, 2023



 
          On November
16, 2022, plaintiffs Krikor Kassabian and Christina Chobanian filed this action
against the City of Glendale (“City”), Frunzik Sargsyan (“Sargsyan”), Agne
Miksyte, and Natalja Miksiene arising from a motor vehicle collision that
occurred on September 30, 2021. Plaintiffs allege that Kassabian was a
pedestrian crossing East Chevy Chase Drive when Sargsyan struck him with his
vehicle. (Compl., ¶ 13.) 
          On November
14, 2023, City filed this motion to compel Sargsyan’s remote deposition. Sargysyan
filed an opposition on November 29, 2023. A reply brief was filed on December
5, 2023. 
Any party may obtain discovery, subject
to restrictions, by taking the oral deposition of any person, including any
party to the action.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.010.)  A properly served deposition
notice is effective to require a party or party-affiliated deponent to attend
and to testify, as well as to produce documents for inspection and
copying.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280,
subd. (a).)
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party . . .
without having served a valid objection . . . fails to appear for examination,
or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document . . .
described in the deposition notice, the party giving notice may move for an
order compelling deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production . . .
of any document . . . described in the deposition notice.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)
A telephonic deposition was scheduled
for November 7, 2023, but did not go forward. City’s counsel was informed by
defense counsel that Sargsyan was arrested and charged with felony hit and run,
and Sargsyan’s criminal attorney requested that the deposition be continued
until the felony hit and run case is closed. City contends that Sargsyan may
appear at his deposition and assert the privilege against self-incrimination,
but may not prevent the deposition from taking place. City requests an order
compelling Sargsyan’s attendance and testimony or, in the alternative, a trial
continuance of one year to allow the pending criminal charges against him to
resolve. A motion to continue the trial date has been reserved for January 4,
2023. City’s counsel declares that he does not intend to ask questions about whether
Sargsyan fled the scene, but only whether any alleged dangerous condition
contributed to the collision. 
In opposition, Sargsyan’s counsel
declares that his client is currently detained at the Florence Correction
Center in Florence, Arizona, which is managed by U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement (“ICE”). Counsel argues that his client’s deposition should be
postponed because of these legal troubles with ICE and other California
agencies. Sargsyan argues that any questions asked of him at his deposition
would necessarily implicate his Fifth Amendment rights. 
A party or witness who wishes to assert
the privilege must generally do so on a question-by-question basis. (People
v. Lopez (1999) 71 Cal.App.4th 1550, 1555.) A blanket assertion of the
privilege is unacceptable. (People v. Trujeque (2015) 61 Cal.4th 227,
267; Fuller v Superior Court (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 299, 308 (civil
litigant facing parallel criminal prosecution may not invoke blanket privilege
against self-incrimination with respect to litigant's entire deposition).
Sargsyan does not submit evidence that
any criminal proceedings related to this civil action are currently pending or
provide any indication of when those proceedings will be resolved. There is also
no request on record for a stay of the civil case until any purported criminal
proceedings have been resolved. In light of the City’s impending deadline to
file a motion for summary judgment (on January 11, 2024) and the failure of
Defendant to show that an actual threat to his privilege against
self-incrimination exists, the City is entitled to an order compelling
Sargsyan’s attendance and testimony at a deposition. Sargsyan may assert the
privilege against self-incrimination on a question-by-question basis. 
City’s motion is GRANTED and Sargsyan
is ordered to appear telephonically for his deposition within 20 days of the
date of this Order. 
 
Moving party to give notice.
 
 
Dated
this 12th
day of December 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 