 Case Number:  KC070435    Hearing Date:   March 4, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Abdul  Ahmed, et al. v. Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department, et al. Defendant  County of Los Angeles’ Motion for Mandatory Dismissal of Plaintiffs’ Action  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court GRANTS Defendant County of Los Angeles’ motion for  mandatory dismissal of Plaintiffs’ action.               Defendant County of Los Angeles is  ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this  order.  BACKGROUND  This is a negligence action based on an unlawful search and  seizure. On July 3, 2018, plaintiffs Abdul Ahmed and Sadiqa Farhat aka Farhat  Sami (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed this action against defendants Los  Angeles County Sheriff’s Department, Jim McDonnel, County of Los Angeles  (County) (collectively, Defendants) and Does 1 through 20, alleging causes of  action for negligence and exceeding scope of search warrant. On September 11,  2018, Defendants filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendant Nadia Ahmed  (Nadia) for equitable indemnity.  On January 16, 2024, County filed a motion for mandatory dismissal  of Plaintiffs’ action. On February 20, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition. On  February 26, 2024, County filed a reply.  LEGAL  STANDARD              “An action shall be brought to trial within five years  after the action is commenced against the defendant.” (Code Civ. Proc., §  583.310.) “In computing the time within which an action must be brought to  trial pursuant to this article, there shall be excluded the time during which  any of the following conditions existed:   (a) The jurisdiction of the court to try the action was suspended. (b)  Prosecution or trial of the action was stayed or enjoined. (c) Bringing the  action to trial, for any other reason, was impossible, impracticable, or  futile.” (Id., § 583.340.) “Notwithstanding any other law, including  Code of Civil Procedure section 583.310, for all civil actions filed on or  before April 6, 2020, the time in which to bring the action to trial is  extended by six months for a total time of five years and six months.”  (Emergency Rule 10, subd. (a).)            REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE              The Court GRANTS  County’s requests for judicial notice. (Evid. Code § 452, subd. (d).) However, the Court takes judicial notice of the  foregoing documents only as to “the existence, content and authenticity of  public records and other specified documents”; it does not take judicial notice  of the truth of the factual matters asserted in those documents. (Dominguez v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal. App. 5th 389, 400.)  DISCUSSION  Summary of Arguments  County moves to dismiss this action on the grounds that Plaintiffs  failed to bring this action to trial within five years and six months of the  commencement of this action per Code of Civil Procedure section 583.310 and  Emergency Rule 10, subdivision (a). (Code Civ. Proc., § 583.310, subd. (a);  Emergency Rule, subd. (a).) County contends that, based on this action having  been filed on July 3, 2018, the deadline for Plaintiffs to have brought this  action to trial was January 3, 2024. County argues that Plaintiffs cannot show  an exception to the five-year deadline as provided under Code of Civil  Procedure section 583.340. (Code Civ. Proc., § 583.340.) More specifically,  County argues that this Court’s jurisdiction was never suspended, the action  was never stayed, and that pretrial delays and continuances do not halt the  five-year deadline.  County contends that Cross-Defendant Nadia’s Chapter 7 bankruptcy  petition has no impact here because:  (1)  Nadia is not a defendant to the primary complaint; and (2) County is not a  party in bankruptcy, and a bankruptcy stay is only effective as to a party in  bankruptcy. County argues that the Court has not otherwise issued an order  staying the entire action.  County further argues that Plaintiffs cannot show  impracticability, impossibility, or futility. County contends that Plaintiffs  cannot show that they were diligent at all stages of litigation, Plaintiffs are  responsible for keeping track of the five-year deadline regardless of the  Court’s actions, Plaintiffs cannot blame their attorneys for failing to meet  the deadline, Plaintiffs never advised the Court of the five-year deadline or  requested an extension, and the two-month period Plaintiffs represented  themselves in pro per does not toll the five-year deadline.  In opposition, Plaintiffs contend that the motion should be denied  because the time during which prosecution or trial of the action was stayed  must be excluded from the period in which the action had to be brought to  trial. Plaintiffs contend the action was stayed due to a bankruptcy filing and  due to a divorce that was pending concurrently with this action, and that this  was done by agreement between Plaintiffs’ prior counsel and defense counsel. Plaintiffs  then argue that a continuance has the legal effect of a stay and that  Plaintiffs’ counsel is equitably estopped based on certain representations made  by opposing counsel.  Analysis  The Court finds County’s motion to be well taken. Plaintiffs  commenced this action on July 3, 2018. (Request for Judicial Notice, Ex. A.) The  five-year deadline would therefore have expired on July 3, 2023. (Code Civ.  Proc, § 583.310.) The 6-month extension provided under Emergency Rule 10,  subdivision (a), extended that deadline to January 3, 2024. (Emergency Rule 10,  subd. (a).) It is now well past that deadline and the action on the Complaint  has not been brought to trial.  Stay  Moreover, there is no evidence of any time in which this action  was stayed or the Court’s jurisdiction was suspended. Plaintiffs’ arguments  regarding concurrently proceeding lawsuits in federal bankruptcy court and in family  law court are unavailing and unpersuasive, as Plaintiffs do not even identify  which lawsuits purportedly had that effect on this action. To the extent  Plaintiffs refer to the Chapter 7 bankruptcy stay against Cross-Defendant  Nadia, County correctly contends that has no bearing on this action because:  (1) Nadia is not a party to the Complaint between Plaintiffs and Defendants,  (see Request for Judicial Notice, Ex. A; Shepard & Morgan v. Lee &  Daniel, Inc. (1982) 31 Cal.3d 256, 260 [complaints and cross-complaints are  separate actions]); and (2) the bankruptcy stay applies only to Nadia because  she was the party in bankruptcy, not County, (see Freiberg v. City of  Mission Viejo (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1484, 1488).  Plaintiffs also provided no evidence as to how the concurrently  proceeding federal bankruptcy and family law court proceedings prevented  Plaintiffs from proceeding against County in this action. (See Freiberg,  supra, 33 Cal.App.4th at p. 1488.) Additionally, Plaintiffs cite no  legal authority to support their contention that continuances have the legal  effect of a stay, and the Court is unaware of any. (See Opp., 8:6-19.) Even  from a practical perspective, if every continuance had the legal effect of a  stay, it would be difficult, if not impossible, to determine when the five-year  deadline occurs given the common occurrence of trial continuances.  Equitable Estoppel  Furthermore, as for equitable estoppel, Plaintiffs have not  presented sufficient evidence of any statements or conduct by County upon which  Plaintiffs relied to their detriment. “The elements of the doctrine [of  equitable estoppel] are that (1) the party to be estopped must be apprised of  the facts; (2) he must intend that his conduct shall be acted upon, or must so  act that the party asserting the estoppel has a right to believe it was so  intended; (3) the other party must be ignorant of the true state of facts; and  (4) he must rely upon the conduct to his injury.” (Greene v. State Farm Fire &  Cas. Co. (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 1583, 1590.)  It is unclear to the Court which conduct from County or its  counsel is purportedly at issue here. Plaintiffs’ opposition quotes language  purportedly from the Declaration of Michael P. Newman, former counsel for  Plaintiffs, but that declaration is not attached to the motion. As such, the  statement quoted in the opposition is not supported by any evidence. (See Opp.,  9:3-7.) Even if it was supported by evidence, the statement quoted is from  Plaintiffs’ counsel, not from counsel for County. (See Id.) For  equitable estoppel to apply, the opposing party must have made the purportedly  improper conduct. (See Greene, supra, 224 Cal.App.3d at p. 1590.)  Plaintiffs’ opposition otherwise argues in a conclusory fashion  that their counsel relied on representations of opposing counsel wanting to  hold litigation, but does not provide any details surrounding such purported  representations. (See Opp., 9:3-7.) Moreover, County provided a copy of  the referenced email correspondence between its counsel, Ms. Busch and  Plaintiffs’ former counsel, “Mike”, and such discussion relates to the  extension of deadlines on motions, not a stay of the litigation as Plaintiffs  represent. (See Supp. Decl. of Kristin T. Busch, ¶ 3, Ex. Q.)              Lack of Opposition to Certain  Arguments  Finally, the  Court notes that Plaintiffs’ opposition did not respond to a number of County’s  arguments, such as those regarding impracticability, impossibility, or futility.  The Court construes such lack of opposition as a tacit admission that County’s  arguments are meritorious. (Holden v. City of San Diego (2019) 43  Cal.App.5th 404, 418; C. Opposing the Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition, Cal.  Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶ 9:105.10.)  Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiffs failed to  bring the action to trial within 5 years and 6 months and GRANTS the motion.  CONCLUSION  The Court GRANTS Defendant County of Los Angeles’ motion for  mandatory dismissal of Plaintiffs’ action.               Defendant County of Los Angeles is  ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this  order.