

Hearing Date:             September 16, 2024    
Case Name:                 Jose Meza Torres v. CBW Doors
Inc. 
Case
No.:                    23STCV31555
Motion:                       OSC
Re: Entry of Default Judgment
Moving
Party:             Plaintiff Jose Meza
Torres

Responding Party:      N/A


 

Tentative
Ruling:      DENY
 

 
Background
            On December
27, 2023, Jose Meza Torres (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint against his former
employer CBW Doors Inc. (Defendant), alleging several violations of California
Labor Codes. Plaintiff was hired by Defendant as a carpenter in July 2022 and
alleges he was wrongfully terminated on February 1, 2023. (Compl., ¶11.) In
January of 2023, Plaintiff was involved in an automobile accident, and informed
Defendants of his injuries. (Compl., ¶18.) Plaintiff later discovered his wife
was pregnant and requested days off to transport his wife to various doctor’s
appointments. (Id.) On February 1, 2023, Plaintiff informed his
supervisor that he had a doctor appointment at 10:30am and would be in to work
afterwards. Less than three hours later, Plaintiff’s supervisor informed
Plaintiff he was terminated. Plaintiff then filed suit. The motion now before
the Court is Plaintiff’s Request for Entry of Default.          
 
Discussion
 
Legal Standard
The governing rule is Cal. Rules of Court
Rule 3.1800 which lays out the requirements for default judgments. In pertinent
part, the rule dictates that a party must use form CIV-100 and file the
following documents with the clerk: (1) Except in unlawful detainer cases, a
brief summary of the case identifying the parties and the nature of plaintiff's
claim; (2) Declarations or other admissible evidence in support of the judgment
requested; (3) Interest computations as necessary; (4) A memorandum of costs
and disbursements; (5) A declaration of nonmilitary status for each
defendant against whom judgment is sought; (6) A proposed form of judgment;
(7) A dismissal of all parties against
whom judgment is not sought or an application for separate judgment against
specified parties under Code of Civil Procedure section 579, supported by a
showing of grounds for each judgment; (8) Exhibits as necessary; and
(9) A request for attorney fees if allowed by statute or by the agreement
of the parties.
 
Analysis
             The Court finds the default packet contains
all the requisite materials. Plaintiff has included a completed CIV-100, client
declaration, a memorandum of costs, and dismissal of Does. However, Plaintiff
fails to explain why the interest for economic damages is calculated at 10% per
annum instead of the 7% annum articulated under Civ. Code §3287. In Form
MC-030, the Declaration Re: Interest, Plaintiff calculates the economic damages
using a contractual interest rate of 10% that is only permitted for contractual
breaches as outlined in Civ. Code §3289. As described in the Summary of the
Case this employment was not based on contract, therefore the interest
calculations are incorrect.      
 
Conclusion
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s request for entry of default judgment is DENIED.
Plaintiff may either (a) correct the interest calculation on Form MC-030 or (b)
provide the Court evidence the employment was based on contract which permits
the use of a 10% interest rate under Civ. Code §3289.
            
            At the
hearing, counsel may present the calculation of interest at the 7% rate, and
the dollar amount can be interlineated into the submitteds proposed judgment.