  Case Number:  19TRCV00871    Hearing Date:   June 10, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative
Ruling 
¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 June 10, 2024¿ 
¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   19TRCV00871
¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Donald Baxter v. Alvin Pittman, et al.  
¿ ¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff, Donald Baxter
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendants, Alvin L. Pittman and Law Offices of Alvin L.
Pittman
 
DISPOSED OF DATE:          April 12, 2023
 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Amend Judgment 

 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANT the motion to correct judgment.  The net
judgment to be entered before including the costs and interest amounts is $7,012,500
after making MICRA and comparative fault adjustments.
GRANT an award of post-998 offer interest and expert witness fees to be calculated
in a proposed amended judgment, supported by a declaration of plaintiff’s counsel
as to the computation of the correct interest amount and post-offer expert fees
to be added in light of this ruling.
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿ 
¿ 
A. Factual¿ 
¿¿ 
            On April 12, 2024, the jury awarded
Plaintiff $10,000,000 with some express and potentially some implied
adjustments. That same day, the Clerk entered judgment on the jury verdict,
reducing the total verdict to $6,800,000, based on deductions for the
comparative fault of Brian D. Witzer at 15% and the jury’s award of $2 Million
in non-economic damages which was 8 times the maximum amount permitted under
MICRA for a medical malpractice case.  
 
            On April 23, 2024, Plaintiff moved
this Court to award costs and pre-judgment interest based on Plaintiff’s
previously tendered and rejected 998 offers. In the same motion, Plaintiff
further sought to correct/amend the judgment pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 473(d) on the basis that the judgment omitted $250,000 worth
of past pain/suffering/emotional distress that would have been obtainable
against the physician in the underlying case, and therefore, should have also
been assessed against Defendants, Alvin Pittman and Law Offices of Alvin
Pittman in the present case and was allegedly improperly reduced.
 
            As
such, Plaintiffs also seek to amend the Judgment to have this Court include the
$250,000 MICRA-capped pain and suffering amount. 
 
B. Procedural  
 
On
April 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed this Motion to Amend Judgment, and filed the
Memorandum of Costs Summary.  On May 6,
2024, Defendants, Alvin L. Pittman and Law Offices of Alvin L. Pittman filed an
opposition to the motion to amend the judgment and filed an opposition to the
claimed costs rather than filing a motion to tax the costs.  On May 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply
brief. On May 17, 2024, this Court conducted the first oral argument on this
motion, and determined to continue the hearing to enable both sides to file
supplemental briefs and/or evidence to answer numerous questions this Court
identified in its previous tentative ruling as to both the motion to amend and
to the Cost Bill. 
 
On
June 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed a supplemental brief in support of his Memorandum
of Costs and Motion to Correct Judgment, and on that same date Defendants Alvin
L. Pittman and Law Offices of Alvin L. Pittman filed supplemental opposition to
Plaintiff’s motion and Cost Bill. 
 
II. ANALYSIS ¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Legal Standard 
 
“The court
may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a
party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out they name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect. . .The court may likewise, in its discretion, after
notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as my be just, an amendment
to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars. . .” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§473, subd. (a)(1).) The court, “regardless of the lapse of time, has inherent
power to correct mistakes in its judgments or orders. [citation] This power,
however, is limited to mistakes which are not the result of an exercise of
judicial discretion.” (In re Sloan’s Estate (1963) 222 Cal.App.2d 283,
292.)  
Under Code of Civil Procedure §1033.5,
subdivision (b)(1), ... parties may not recover expert witness fees as costs “except
when expressly authorized by law.”   Such an express authorization exists under section
998. (First Nationwide Bank v. Mountain Cascade, Inc. (2000) 77
Cal.App.4th 871, 875-876.) Whether a
section 998 offer was reasonable and made in good faith is left to the sound
discretion of the trial court. (Nelson v. Anderson (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th
111, 134.)  “Similarly, the decision to
award expert witness fees, and the determination of whether these fees were
reasonably necessary, are issues left to the discretion of the trial court.”   (Adams v. Ford Motor Co. (2011) 199
Cal.App.4th 1475, 1484.)   On appeal, the
reviewing court “may reverse the denial of statutorily authorized [expert] fees
where the trial court failed to exercise its discretion to determine whether
the requested fees were reasonable.”  (LAOSD
Asbestos Cases (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 1116, 1126.)  
Code of Civil Procedure Section 998 establishes a procedure for
shifting costs upon a party's refusal to settle by “expand[ing] the number and
type of recoverable costs and fees” beyond those otherwise available to a
prevailing party under Code of Civil Procedure section 1032, subdivision (b). (Murillo
v. Fleetwood Enterprises, Inc. (1998) 17 Cal.4th 985, 1000.) In addition to
expert witness fees, a prevailing plaintiff in a personal injury case may
obtain post offer interest on the judgment. (Civ. Code, § 3291.)  Prejudgment interest may be awarded on
personal injury damages whether they are economic (and thus readily
determinable in amount at the time the Section 998 offer was made) as well as
non-economic damages that are not computable or subject to precise
calculation until the jury makes its determination at trial.  (Steinfeld v. Foote-Goldman Proctologic
Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 13, 21.)  The proper method of calculating Section 3291
prejudgment interest amount is to base the interest upon the entire judgment,
except that future damages must be reduced to present value.  (Deocampo v. Ahn (2002) 101
Cal.App.4th 758, 775.)  Here, the jury
was instructed on present value and is presumed to have taken the present value
instruction into account in its awarded amounts.
B.   
Discussion 
 
The issues addressed by this Court in its previous tentative
ruling are below. The Court invited the parties to address these issues at the
previous hearing as well as address them further in supplemental briefings. The
issues identified by the Court and the Court’s analysis of the parties’
supplemental briefings are discussed below in concert. 
 
1.    
The
Interest Calculation
 
Previously, this Court noted that on its face, and regardless of
whether Defendants did or did not fail to timely file a motion to tax costs,
the Court could not accept at face value the single sentence in Mr. Melrose’s
declaration and threadbare discussion in the motion to amend judgment as to how
the claimed interest amount was calculated. 
Given that the dollar amount of the judgment is the subject of the
motion to amend, it was unclear to the Court whether the Plaintiff’s proposed
Cost Bill interest amount was predicated on the judgment entered by the Court
or on the proposed judgment after the requested amendments.  It was also unclear whether the claimed
interest amount was duplicated based on the separate 998 Offers or not.  
 
Plaintiff’s supplemental briefing indicates that Plaintiff’s
calculation of interest was based on the original $6.8 million dollar judgment.
However, Plaintiff contends that if the Court sees fit to amend the judgment
with the addition of the $250,000 and the application of Witzer’s fault
thereto, then Plaintiff notes he has provided an alternative calculation in the
supplemental brief. Plaintiff assures the Court that his interest computation
does not include any of the requested costs, nor does he calculate pre-judgment
interest twice, based on the two 998 offers that were rejected. Instead,
Plaintiff is calculating the $6.8 million, multiplying that by 10% per
annum/365 days, totaling $547,726.03.  Defendant’s
supplemental opposition brief does not speak to this issue. 
 
2.    
 The Reasonableness and Good Faith of the
Section 998 Offers
Next, this Court noted in its earlier tentative ruling that the
Second District recently made it clear that the issues of the reasonableness
and good faith of a Section 998 Offer is within the trial court’s discretion,
but the record must reflect the basis for the trial court’s exercise of that
discretion.  (LAOSD
Asbestos Cases, supra, 25 Cal.App.5th at p. 1126.)  The moving papers on the motion to amend
judgment only scratched the surface of this issue, which is one reason the
Court believed it may need a supplemental declaration and briefing on this
point.  
In
Plaintiff’s supplemental briefing it notes that its offers to settle were
reasonable, noting both 998 offers were made at $500,000, collectively offering
to settle the case at $1 million. The supplemental brief attaches both Section
998 Offers and their proof of service.  Plaintiff
acknowledges that the original jury award was $10 million prior to being
decreased by the Court to $6.8 million, and that these awards far exceed either
or both the 998 offers, but that this does not make them unreasonable. Defendant’s
supplemental opposition brief does not speak to this issue. 
The Court
finds the 998 Offers were reasonable and were deemed rejected by operation of
law when they were not accepted within 30 days of service.  Further, even were the Court to deem the
defense opposition to the motion to amend the judgment as a belated motion to
tax costs, the defense provides no evidence or argument bearing on the costs
penalties to a defendant who fails to accept a Section 998 offer that the Plaintiff
betters at trial.   
 
3.     The Reasonableness of the Expert Fees and Whether They Were
Incurred Pre-Offer or Post-Offer
  
Third, this Court previously noted that similar to the issue of the
reasonableness of the statutory settlement offers, the Court believed it needed
a “fuller record to exercise its discretion of the hourly rates and associated
charges of the expert witnesses whose witness fees are included in the Cost
Bill.”  The moving papers on the motion to
amend judgment only briefly touched this issue.  The Court noted it may “need
a supplemental declaration and briefing on this point” to
make findings as to whether the requested expert witness fees were reasonably
necessary to the litigation.   
Plaintiff
contends that the expert fees were reasonable and the vast majority were
incurred post-offer. Plaintiff also argues, in a conclusory way, that the
amounts identified in the table in Plaintiff’s supplemental briefing are
reasonable based on the expertise of each of the witnesses, each of whom were
reasonably necessary in preparation for trial in this case by Plaintiff, and
none of whom are regular employees to any of the parties. In a single sentence
in his declaration, Plaintiff’s counsel states that the contents of his
supplemental brief are true and correct. 
This is a most unusual approach, instead of providing sworn statements in
the declaration to support contentions, arguments, or asserted propositions of
fact in a supplemental brief.  There is
no invoice attached to the moving or supplemental papers for any of the experts,
in contrast the attachment as exhibits of the two Section 998 offers.  There is no indication in the briefs or the
counsel declarations of the experts’ hourly rates.  Defendant’s supplemental opposition
brief surprisingly does not even speak to this issue, nor is there a supplemental
declaration.  Plaintiff carries the
burden of proof of making a sufficient record to support the sizeable claim for
expert witness expenses.  Even though the
Court explicitly noted in the prior tentative that it needed more details, the Cost
Bill itself has Mr. Melrose’s declaration that the costs were necessarily
incurred and to the best of his knowledge and belief those costs are
correct.  Coupled with the single sentence
in Mr. Melrose’s supplemental declaration that “the contents” of the
supplemental brief are true and correct to the best of his knowledge, and the absence
of any evidence or argument bearing on the hourly rates charged by these
witnesses, Plaintiff has barely edged across the line of proving the expert
witness expenses by a preponderance of the evidence.  The Court will thus award the post-offer
expert fees incurred by Plaintiff as part of the awarded costs in this case.
 
4.    
Handling the MICRA Issue
Fourth, the Motion to Amend argues
that the MICRA $250,000 amount should be added to the jury’s awards.  The relevant portion of MICRA, in Civil Code
section 3333.2, provides: “(a) In any action for injury against a health care
provider based on professional negligence, the injured plaintiff shall be
entitled to recover noneconomic losses to compensate for pain, suffering,
inconvenience, physical impairment, disfigurement and other nonpecuniary
damage. [¶] (b) In no action shall the amount of damages for noneconomic losses
exceed two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000).”  The jury awarded well over $250,000 for
non-economic damages for each of past and future non-economic components.  Expert testimony from both sides provided
notice to the jury that MICRA existed and that MICRA imposed a cap, although
there were no jury instructions to help the jury decide whether they should
award a gross amount that the Court would then reduce on post-judgment motion,
or whether they should ignore the testimony on the point and simply award the
amount they collectively determined was appropriate for each of past and future
components on non-economic damages.  
 
The Court invited arguments from
the supplemental briefings as to whether MICRA applies to both past and future
non-economic damages, whether the $1 Million awards by the jury in the legal
malpractice verdict questions for each component should be reduced to $250,000
total or $250,000 for each on past and future non-economic damages, and what
authority Plaintiff relies on for the assertion that the Court should add
another $250,000 to the $2 Million the jury awarded for such damages. The Court
noted that the jury awarded the exact same $2 Million total for non-economic
damages both in the underlying case special verdict question 3.b (which
combined past and future) and in the malpractice verdict question 6.b and 6.c
(which separated them). The Court previously asked if the parties agreed that
the question 3.b award of $2Million should have been reduced by the Court to
$250,000, and if so what effect would that have on the jury’s award of the
exact same total amount in the legal malpractice section of the verdict
form?  
 
In Plaintiff’s supplemental brief,
they assert this Court should have reduced the non-economic damages against
Pittman by $1,750,000, not two million dollars. Plaintiff notes that in the
subsequent malpractice action against Defendant Pittman, the jury again awarded
$2 million dollars in non-economic damages, split evenly between past and
future non-economic amounts. Plaintiff asserts that in a legal malpractice
case, a Plaintiff cannot recover non-economic losses directly against the
lawyer, but could recover as economic losses the non-economic damages that
would have been available in the underlying action. As such, Plaintiff argues
it was proper for this Court to reduce the two million dollars in non-economic
damages awarded against Defendant Pittman, except for the $250,000 available
under MICRA. Plaintiff contends that it was the jury’s reasonable intent to
award, as damages caused by Pittman, the amount of the non-economic losses
assigned against Dr. Rickles, when they assigned the same exact non-economic
losses against Defendant Pittman. Thus, Plaintiff believes the total verdict
should have been $8.25 million, before reduction based on the fault of Witzer. 
 
In Defendant’s supplemental
opposition brief, he notes that Plaintiffs cite no case law for the argument
that Plaintiff should be able to recover $250,000 under MICRA in addition to
the non-economic damages awarded. Defendant argues that the non-economic
damages awarded by the jury take into account all non-economic damages.
Defendant asserts that Plaintiff cites no authority to support the premise that
$250,000 would be exclusive of non-economic damages recovered and awarded by
the jury, and that there was no segregation on the verdict form to identify
anything in addition to the non-economic damages awarded. 
 
The Court agrees in part with
Plaintiff that the Clerk miscalculated the reductions due to MICRA and due to
the 15% allocation of responsibility to Mr. Witzer.  While the jury found $2Million in non-economic
damages in both the medical malpractice and legal malpractice cases, the effect
of MICRA is to reduce the non-economic damages in the underlying medical
malpractice case to $250,000.  Thus, the
value of the medical malpractice case that the jury found must be adjusted by
the Court to the full amount of the economic damages plus $250,000 for
non-economic damages, i.e., $3.6M plus $4.4M plus $250,000, for a subtotal of
$8,250,000.  From that amount, the 15%
comparative fault attributed to Mr. Witzer for settling the case for less than the
jury believed it was worth must then be applied to calculate the award against Mr.
Pittman in the legal malpractice case.  Thus,
the $8.25M net-of-MICRA value of the medical malpractice case must be reduced
by $1,237,500 attributable to Mr. Witzer. 
The resulting final net judgment to be entered before including the
costs and interest amounts is thus $7,012,500. 

 
5.     Handling
the Howell Issue
Fifth, Defendants raise an argument
in their Opposition Brief (rather than in a motion for new trial or JNOV) that
the Court should reduce the jury’s award of past medical expenses by the negotiated
rate differential reflecting a much smaller amount than the face amount of the
medical bills based on in-network rates Plaintiff’s medical insurance
contracted to pay to Plaintiff’s health care providers and hospital, pursuant
to Howell v. Hamilton Meats & Provisions, Inc. (2011) 52 Cal.4th
541, 563.  Howell held that an
award of past medical expenses is limited to the lesser of (1) the amount paid
or incurred and (2) the reasonable value of the services rendered.  (Id. at p. 556.)  In Pebley v. Santa Clara Organics, LLC
(2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 1266, 1269, the court held that when an insured plaintiff
chooses to seek medical care outside of his or her insurance plan, such a
plaintiff may be considered “uninsured,” making the incurred but unpaid medical
bills potentially relevant to prove past and future medical damages—so long as
additional evidence, usually in the form of expert opinion testimony, is also
presented on the reasonable value of the services rendered.  The Opposition made no reference to any such
expert testimony provided in the trial, because there was none. Moreover, evidence
of unpaid medical bills is relevant to prove or disprove the “reasonable value”
prong of past medical damages if it can be shown the bill is actually incurred.
(Qaadir v. Figueroa (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th 790, 798.)  The Opposition quoted to no such evidence
bearing on how the Court is being requested to make the requested adjustment in
the economic damages awarded.   
 
The Court and the jury were not
provided any evidence of the negotiated rate differential, or whether the
health care providers were or were not within the Plaintiff’s public or private
insurance coverage as approved providers, or whether any of the bills were paid
or discounted by the health care providers, or other evidence bearing on the
reasonable value of the medical expenses claimed.  The Court previously invited oral argument as
to how the parties contend the Court should address this Howell issue
given the record before the Court.  
 
In Plaintiff’s supplemental brief,
it notes that Defendant has already waived the right to enforce Howell in
this case when it failed to move for a new trial nor even file a notice of
intent to move for a new trial. As such, Plaintiff contends Defendants waived
any ability to challenge the verdict or the judgment in this case based on
excessiveness of any damages, including excessiveness of the past economic
damages. However, Plaintiff further argues that the issue was waived long
before that, as the defense never made any motion or objection based on Howell
in the underlying trial. 
 
In Defendant’s supplemental
opposition brief, they argue that while it is true that a challenge to
excessive damages must be raised first on a motion for a new trial in order to
be cognizable on appeal, or in another motion, that this is only for conditions
when the challenge “turns on the credibility of witnesses, conflicting
evidence, or other factual questions.” (County of Los Angeles v. Southern
Cal. Edison Co. (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1108, 1121.) However, in the present
case, Defendant argues that there is no conflicting evidence, no credibility of
witnesses to weigh on the issue of the amounts of past medical expenses
awarded, and no evidence at all of past medical expenses introduced into
evidence at trial, submitted to the jury, including no testimony by Plaintiff
about his past medical bills. 
 
The Defendant bears the burden of
proving a Howell defense.  Defendant’s
original and supplemental opposition to the Cost Bill and the motion to amend the
verdict fail to provide any evidence to support their legal argument.  How much should the Court reduce the past
medical bills?  What witness testified to
such amounts?  The defense argues there
were not medical bills admitted into evidence and no evidence at all of past
medical expenses incurred.  These arguments
would have greater force and effect had they been raised in a motion for new
trial or a motion for JNOV, and supported by admissible evidence such as a
declaration of trial counsel as to the claimed absence of evidence or sufficient
of the evidence to support the award of past medical expenses.  But the defense filed neither such motion nor
provided any such evidence.  Plaintiff
did offer some evidence of past medical treatment, including the testimony of
Dr. Rickles himself.  Defendant himself
offered testimony of economic damages he intended to prove, as did Mr.
Witzer.     
 
Defendant argues that all of the
economic damages for past medical expenses are “legally unavailable” because
the jury’s award lacks any evidence to support it, and thus, asks this Court
that the entire $3.6 million award of past medical expenses be stricken from
the judgment.  The Court denies to strike
the amount, in part because of the procedural impropriety of moving to strike a
category of damages in an opposition brief rather than in a defense motion
predicated on admissible evidence, and in part because there is substantial evidence
that Plaintiff did in fact incur past economic damages before Mr. Pittman filed
the underlying medical malpractice suit claiming, among other things, economic damages
for past medical expenses incurred.
 
6.     Addressing
the 15% Reduction the Jury Attributed to Mr. Witzer  
Sixth, in its answer to Special
Verdict Question 9 the jury attributed 15% responsibility to Mr. Witzer and 85%
of Mr. Pittman.  The Court recognized
that the parties in their briefing have very different takes on this, Defendant
arguing that the Court should substitute its own judgment for the jury’s and
reallocate the apportionment of liability differently. The Court will decline
to do so for numerous reasons, not the least of which is that such a request
for essentially a remittitur or JNOV should have been brought in Defendant’s
own post-trial motion, not in an opposition to Plaintiff’s motion.  Plaintiff’s Motion to Amend argues that the
Court should also ignore the jury’s assessment of apportioned responsibility,
which is essentially a comparative fault determination by the trier of fact
after being instructed pursuant to CACI 3702 that the Court would calculate the
actual reduction of Plaintiff’s claim by its determination of Mr. Witzer’s
percentage of responsibility.  The Court allowed
briefing as to whether the Clerk made a clerical miscalculation of the
percentage reduction found by the jury, or whether there was an error of law in
applying the 15% reduction to improper elements of damages.” 
 
It appears that Plaintiff concedes
this Court should apply the reduction of the judgment based on Witzer’s 15%
fault to the sum of the verdict. In applying this, Plaintiff contends Witzer’s
comparative fault to the verdict yields a verdict of $7,012,500. As discussed
above, the Court concurs.
 
In Defendant’s supplemental
opposition brief, he notes that Defendants proved Brian Witzer was the
intervening cause of the malpractice and that the jury erred in finding Witzer
only 85% responsible. Again, this is an issue that should have been raised by
Defendant as a remittitur or JNOV and brought as a post-trial motion. 
 
7.    
Addressing the Absence of a Motion to Tax Costs When
the Opposition to This Motion to Amend Was Filed within the Time Limits for a
Motion to Tax
 
Lastly, the Court noted in its previous tentative ruling that
Defendants did not file a motion to tax costs. 
Plaintiff’s Reply contends that the Court should exercise no discretion,
simply award every penny sought in the Cost Bill without any analysis, and
essentially find that Defendants have waived their right to challenge any of
the claimed costs.  However, the Court
also noted that the Opposition to the Motion to Amend was filed within the time
limits for a motion to tax costs, and the substance of the opposition brief and
declaration are to question the reasonableness of several items of claimed
costs.  Accordingly, the Court could
consider or deem the Opposition papers to be deemed a motion to tax costs.  
 
In Plaintiff’s supplemental brief, they argue that Defendants
never filed a Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b) motion indicating why they
were unable to file a motion to tax costs, or what the inadvertence was that
led them to believe that filing an opposition to a motion to amend judgment was
an alternative for seeking relief from such errors. However, Plaintiff also
argues that even if this Court were to treat the opposition as a motion to tax
costs, it would fail as Defendant’s burden was to show why the costs sought to
be taxed were not necessary or reasonable. 
Defendant’s supplemental opposition brief does not speak to this issue. 
 
The Court has addressed the merits of this 6th
point in various section fo the this second tentative ruling above.