 Case Number:  24STCV03098    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



JIANGXI DACHENG ELECTROMECHANICAL EQUIPMENT
  IMPORT AND EXPORT CO. LTD 
  
        
  vs.
 
CHW TRADING, INC., et al. 
  


 Case
  No.:  24STCV03098
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  May 6, 2024




 
 
CHW Parties’
demurrer is OVERRULED. Defendant’s motion to strike is DENIED. 
 
            On
2/6/2024, Plaintiff Jiangxi Dacheng Electromechnical Equipment Import and
Export Co. Ltd. filed suit against CHW Trading, Inc., Chundi Liu aka Chun Di
Liu, Catwalk to Sidewalk Inc., and Kyong Won Kang, alleging: (1)
fraud/misrepresentation; (2) breach of contract; and (3) breach of implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing. 
 
            Now,
Defendants CHW Trading, Inc. (CHW) and Chundi Liu aka Chun Di Liu (Liu)
(collectively, Defendants or CHW Parties) demur to the first cause of action.
Defendants also move to strike portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendants
argue that Plaintiff’s fraud claim is barred by the statute of limitations and
fails to allege sufficient facts to state a claim as to Defendants. 
 
            As
to the first contention, the statute of limitations for a fraud claim in
California is three years from the date of injury. (CCP § 338, subd. (d).) The
“discovery rule” may sometimes postpone accrual of a fraud cause of action
until the plaintiff discovers, or has reason to discover, the cause of action.
(Fox v. Ethicon EndoSurgery, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 797, 806.) 
 
            Here,
the events upon which Plaintiff’s first cause of action is based on events
which are alleged to have begun in June 2019, when the first Sales Contract was
executed. However, Plaintiff alleges that from 2020 to 2022, Plaintiff began
urging the Defendants to pay the outstanding balance allegedly owed but that
the parties “used various excuses and refused to make the payment.” (Complaint
¶ 29.) Accordingly, accepted as true at the pleading stage, Plaintiff has
alleged facts which could show that it did not have reason to discover the
fraud until 2022 when emails “between the parties and the phone conversation
with Kang show[ed] that CHW Trading and Catwalk to Sidewalk had fraudulent
intentions not to pay the outstanding balance and that they had no intention to
pay for the goods when they entered into the agreements with Dacheng.”
(Complaint ¶ 30.) While Defendants may dispute that this was the first
opportunity for discovery, that is a factual determination not properly decided
at this stage. 
 
            As
for the second contention, fraud’s “particularity requirement necessitates
pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were tendered.” Id. at 645. Fraud “must be pleaded in specific
language descriptive of the acts which are relied upon to constitute fraud. It
is not sufficient to allege it in general terms, or in terms which amount to
mere conclusions.” (Fallbrook Pub. Util. Dist. v. Martin (1957) 151 Cal.
App.2d 84, 94.)  
 
Here,
Plaintiff’s alleges “Defendants made a false representation to Plaintiff in
entering these three agreements because Defendants intended to first induce
Plaintiff to ship the goods without paying Plaintiff in full at the time when a
such promise was made and then induce Plaintiff in believing that Defendants
would pay for the goods in full. As such, and induced by this false promise,
Plaintiff shipped the goods to Defendants under the impression that Defendants
would pay the goods in full pursuant to the three agreements.” (Complaint ¶
35.) 
 
In its
demurrer, Defendants argue that these allegations are insufficient because
Plaintiff alleges that it entered into agreements with Catwalk, not the CHW
parties. However, Plaintiff clearly alleges that it negotiated to enter into
the agreement with CHW, and “[a]s CHW Trading did not have sufficient credit
line to sign a $500,000 worth of contract, it informed Dacheng that it asked
Catwalk to Sidewalk to sign the contract on its behalf. Catwalk to Sidewalk had
sufficient credit line to sign a $500,000 worth of contract.” (Complaint ¶ 23.)
 
While CHW may
dispute this as true, the Court accepts well-pled allegations as true at the
pleadings stage. Accepted as true, Plaintiff alleges that CHW knowingly induced
Plaintiff to enter into an agreement with Catwalk acting on its behalf, CHW had
no intention to perform under the agreement, accepted goods pursuant to the
agreement, and then refused to pay.  This
is sufficiently specific at the pleadings stage to state a claim for
fraud.  
 
Based on the
foregoing, CHW Parties’ demurrer is overruled.  Given this conclusion, Plaintiff has alleged
sufficient facts to show fraud, malice, or oppression. (Civil Code § 3294.)
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to strike is denied. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  May   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 