  Case Number:  23STCV02085    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



SEBASTIAN DONOVAN, et al
 
  
        
  vs.
 
QUANTGENE, INC.,
  et al.
 


 Case
  No.:  23STCV02085 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  May 6, 2024




 
The Court
finds that Defendants’ counsel has not waived privilege as to the allegedly
privileged documents. However, Defendants are ordered to produce a privilege
log within 15 days of entry of this order. 
 
On 1/31/2023,
Plaintiffs Sebastian Donovan and Arconex (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed suit
against Quantgene, Inc. and Johannes Bhakdi (collectively, Defendants),
alleging: (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing; (3) unjust enrichment; (4) intentional misrepresentation; (5)
negligent misrepresentation; and (6) violation of Business and Professions Code
section 17200.
 
            On
3/3/2022, Cross-Complainants Quantgene, Inc. and Johannes Bhakdi filed a
cross-complaint (XC) against Cross-Defendants Sebastian Donovan and Arconex,
alleging: (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing; (3) false promise; (4) intentional misrepresentation; (5)
concealment; (6) negligent misrepresentation; (7) conversion; (8) unjust
enrichment; (9) intentional interference with contractual relations; and (10)
unfair business practices. 
 
            On
3/1/2024, Plaintiffs moved for a determination of privilege. 
 
Factual Background 
 
From late
October 2023 to late January 2024, Defendants Quantgene, Inc. and Johannes
Bhakdi (collectively, Defendants) made three document productions, containing a
collective total of over 108,000 pages of documents.
 
Defendants
have now admitted that these productions were a large-scale document dump that
Defendants’ counsel did not reviewing before producing them. Rather, to save
time, Defendants’ counsel relied on “search terms” to screen documents for
privilege. 
 
During
Plaintiffs’ review of the documents, it became apparent that the production
contained hundreds of documents (or thousands of individual communications)
involving one of Quantgene’s in-house lawyers.
 
Discussion 
 
When a party
claims privilege over documents that have already been produced, the Code
provides that the receiving party should “immediately sequester the information
and either return the specified information and any copies that may exist or
present the information to the court conditionally under seal for a
determination of the claim.” (CCP § 2031.285(b).) The Code further provides
that “[i]f the receiving party contests the legitimacy of a claim of privilege
or protection, he or she may seek a determination of the claim from the court
by making a motion within 30 days of receiving the claim and presenting the
information to the court conditionally under seal.” Id. at § 2031.285(d)(1).
“Until the legitimacy of the claim of privilege or protection is resolved, the
receiving party shall preserve the information and keep it confidential and
shall be precluded from using the information in any manner.” (Id. at §
2031.285(d)(2).)
 
As a
preliminary matter, the Court notes its dismay that Defendants did not produce
a claw-back list until 3/12/2024, approximately six weeks after Plaintiffs
brought this issue to its attention. Even more concerning is that Defendants
still not have not provided a privilege log, nor have they indicated when they
will do so.
 
Given that
Defendants have not actually asserted any privilege(s) as to any specific
document, the Court cannot determine whether or not the unspecified documents
are privileged. However, the Court can evaluate Plaintiffs’ contention that
Defendants’ conduct amounts to a waiver of privilege. 
 
After review,
the Court determines that Defendants initial production did not result in
waiver, nor did their subsequent conduct. 
 
Under
California law, when a party asserts that privileged materials were
inadvertently produced, the holder of the privilege must demonstrate that it
“has taken reasonable steps under the circumstances to prevent disclosure.” (Regents
of Univ. of California v. Superior Ct. (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 672, 683.) 
 
Although it
is common in modern discovery practice to use electronic discovery tools to aid
in collection, review and production of documents that are in electronic form,
the Code “clearly contemplates that . . . . parties will review ESI before
producing it in order to protect information that is subject to a claim of
privilege or of protection as attorney work product.” (Parkv. Law Offices of
Tracey Buck-Walsh (2021) 73 Cal. Appl. 5th 179, 194 (citing Cal. Code. Civ.
P. § 1985.8(j)). Thus, when a party makes the decision, whether to save time,
money, or for some other reason, to use keyword searches alone to attempt to
identify privileged documents, rather than actually reviewing the documents,
that strategic decision has been found by many courts not to be “reasonable”,
with the result that any claim of privileged is waived.
 
Here,
Defendants’ counsel admitted that “this was a search term production” and that
instead of actually reviewing the documents, “we used a variety of filters and
rules to withhold certain privileged items.” (Carnevale Decl. ¶ 18, Ex. D.) 
 
In its motion,
Plaintiff argues that Defendants’ counsel conduct was unreasonable, advancing
arguments like: 
 
[I]f
Defendants’ counsel truly believed that it was not feasible or possible to
review documents before producing them, there are reasonable steps that Defendant
could have taken to prevent the inadvertent disclosure. In cases where a party
believes a privilege review is not possible or practical for some reason, it is
common to negotiate a “clawback agreement”, which “will permit the parties to
conduct and respond to discovery in an expeditious manner, without the need for
time-consuming and costly pre -production privilege reviews, and at the same
time preserve the parties’ rights to assert the attorney-client privilege or
work product immunity.”
 
            (Opp.,
9: 7-13.)
 
            However,
after review of Defendants’ opposition, the Court finds insufficient evidence
to conclude that the inadvertent production was unreasonable. 
 
In State
Comp. Ins. Fund v. WPS, Inc. (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 644, 652 (1999), the
Second Appellate District expressly that ‘waiver’ does not include accidental,
inadvertent disclosure of privileged information by [the client's] attorney.” (Id.
at p. 654.) In State Comp., outside counsel for plaintiff inadvertently
sent defense counsel 273 pages of civil litigation claims forms as part of a
reproduction of an earlier document production of 7,000 pages. The new set of
documents bore clear markings as attorney-client communications. (See id.
at 647-49.) The trial court found that the plaintiff had not waived the
privilege by the inadvertent disclosure and production of these materials, and
found defense counsel violated its ethical obligations to refrain from using
and returning the documents to State Fund. (Id. at p. 651.) The Second
Appellate District agreed. The court reasoned that there was no affirmative
conduct on behalf plaintiff to consent to disclosure, and found that disclosure
of the material was unintentional and had been made despite the procedures
employed to prevent disclosure of privileged materials. (See id.
at 653.) 
 
Here,
similarly, there is no indication that disclosure was intentional, but rather
all evidence points to this being an inadvertent disclosure. While the Court
agrees that Defendants’ counsel’s failure to closely review the document
production is ill-advised, Plaintiff has not identified any controlling case
law that requires a page-by-page, document-by-document review. Using keywords
to capture potentially privileged items is common-place, and fails to support a
finding waiver, and the Court is persuaded that Defendants’ counsel employed a
method which it could have reasonably believed would not produce privileged
materials.  The Court declines to
consider the out of state authority submitted by Plaintiff. 
 
Similarly,
while the Court is troubled by Defendants’ counsel’s subsequent delay in
specifically identifying the privileged documents, the Court finds inadequate
authority to conclude that it rises to the level of waiver. 
 
            When
Plaintiff first notified Defendants that they may have produced documents
subject to a potential claim of privilege, they made clear that the issue
appeared to implicate many documents. (Carnevale Decl. ¶ 14, Ex. B.) Because
Defendants were suspending their review and sequestering documents as required
by CCP section 2031.285, Plaintiffs asked Defendants to identify the documents
that they believed to be privileged. (Ibid.)
 
Although
Defendants’ counsel sent emails making broad, blanket statements about having
inadvertently produced documents, Defendants did not produce a claw-back list
until 3/12/2024. 
 
When
evaluating “whether an inadvertent disclosure waived the attorney-client
privilege” a relevant consideration is “the promptness with which the holder
sought return of the inadvertently disclosed document.” (McDermott Will
& Emery LLP v. Superior Ct. (2017)10 Cal. App. 5th 1083, 1102 (citing Ardon
v. City of Los Angeles (2016) 62 Cal. 4th 1176. 1191); see also Luna Gaming
San Diego, LLC v. Dorsey & Whitney, LLP(S.D. Cal. Jan. 13, 2010)  No. 06-cv-2804, 2010 WL 275083, at *6
(observing that “failing to take affirmative steps to retrieve the document . .
. also waives the privilege”).) 
 
            Here,
Defendants did assert that the documents had been inadvertently produced, and
have since produced a claw-back list identifying 222 privileged items. Plaintiff
did not submit legal authority which could support a conclusion that six-weeks
is sufficient delay to support a total waiver of privilege. However, the Court
finds Defendants must produce a privilege log within 15 days of entry of this
order, or Plaintiff may renew its motion. 
 
            Finally,
based on this conclusion, the Court directs the parties to meet and confer as
to the issue regarding the specific communications that Plaintiffs seek to
discover based on the crime-fraud exception, including the extent to which
Plaintiffs’ counsel reviewed the materials and whether and how the Court may
rule on such motion given the proscription against using the privileged
material itself as a basis to prove the exception.  
            
Based on the
foregoing, the Court finds that Defendants’ counsel has not waived privilege
with respect to the inadvertently disclosed documents.    
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  April   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 