 Case Number:  BC616980    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER DENYING MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY
ADJUDICATIONI.        INTRODUCTION
          This action was filed on April 14,
2016, and arises from a business dispute that occurred on April 16, 2014,
resulting in a physical altercation and ultimately, the shooting of Plaintiffs
Arutyun Fitilchyan (Fitilchan), Hrachya Gasparyan (Gasparyan) and Defendant
Robert Torosian (Robert). 
Plaintiffs Fitilchyan, Galina Azumanova, Gasparyan, and
Marine Hovhannisyan filed a complaint against Defendants Akop Torosian aka Jack
Torosian (Akop), and Robert. The complaint alleges causes of action for: (1)
assault and battery, (2) conspiracy, (3) negligence, (4) loss of consortium,
and (5) intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
The complaint alleges that Fitilchyan was contacted by Akop
to perform locksmith services for him. Fitilchyan alleges he was on his way to
deliver brochures and schedule the service when he ran low on fuel. On
telephoning Akop about his tardiness, Akop began to verbally abuse Fitilchyan,
which caused Fitilchyan to decide he was no longer willing to provide the
services. Fitilchyan alleges that after this he went to visit his friend
Gasparyan at his body shop. Fitilchyan alleges that while the two were having
coffee at the body shop, Akop showed up and proceeded to scream obscenities at
him and the two of them got into a scuffle which body shop employees broke up.
Fitilchyan alleges Akop left but then returned with his brother Robert, who
charged Fitilchyan and struck him with his fist. He alleges that Akop then
produced a gun and began shooting at them, in response to which Gasparyan
retrieved a gun and returned fire. 
On June 25, 2024, Robert filed this motion for summary
judgment, or in the alterative, summary adjudication. On September 12, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed an opposition. On September 20, 2024, Robert filed a reply.
The motion for summary judgment, or in the alternative,
summary adjudication is denied as Plaintiffs provide evidence sufficient to
show there are triable issues of material fact.
II. EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
A.   
Plaintiffs’ Objections to Defendant’s Evidence
The following
objections are OVERRULED: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16
The following
objections are SUSTAINED: n/a
 
B.    Defendant’s
Objections to Plaintiffs’ Evidence
Defendants’
Objections to Plaintiffs’ Evidence are in an improper format and fail to follow
the requirements of California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1354.  As relevant
here, Rule 3.1354 requires that the objecting party: (3) Quote or set
forth the objectionable statement or material.
Defendant has failed to
quote any of the objectionable statements. Some of the evidence that is
cited in the objections are long texts or full documents. This makes it
impossible to discern which parts of the text is being objected to. The Court
cannot guess which part of the evidence is “conclusory” or “speculation.” 
A
Court must rule on individual objections only when they are timely and in the
proper form.  (Demps v. San Francisco Housing Authority (2007) 149
Cal. App. 4th 564, 578.) The Court will rule on the objections to the
extent possible. As indicated below, the Court declines to rule on any
objections where it is not clear which portion of the evidence is being
objected to.
The following
objections are OVERRULED: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 9, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17
The following
objections are SUSTAINED: 6, 7, 8, 10, 11
The Court declines to
rule on Objections 18-36 as the objections are to entire pleadings, documents,
or transcripts with no quoted text.
II. LEGAL STANDARD
Summary judgment is appropriately granted where it is shown
that an action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action. (Code
Civ. Proc. §437c(a).)  
 
A cause of action has no merit if one of the following
exists: (1) one or more necessary element cannot be established; (2) a
defendant establishes an affirmative defense. (Id., Section §437c(o).)
 
A motion for summary judgment shall be granted where all the
papers submitted show that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. (Id.,
Section 437c(c).)
 
Summary adjudication may be granted where it completely
disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim of damages, or
an issue of duty. (Id., Section 437c(f).)
 
          III.     DISCUSSION
          As
an initial matter, Plaintiffs argue in the opposition that Defendant’s motion
for summary judgment is untimely and the Court lacks authority to grant it. The
Court already ruled on this issue in its order to advance the motion for
summary judgment, and thus, will not readdress this argument as Plaintiffs
failed to file a motion for reconsideration, and present no new facts or law.
i.                
Assault and Battery
Defendant Robert moves for
summary judgment or adjudication as to the cause of action for assault and
battery, on the grounds that he did not intend to cause harm or injure
Plaintiffs and he did not make any threats.
“The essential elements of a cause of
action for battery are: (1) defendant touched plaintiff, or caused plaintiff to
be touched, with the intent to harm or offend plaintiff; (2) plaintiff did not
consent to the touching; (3) plaintiff was harmed or offended by defendant’s
conduct; and (4) a reasonable person in plaintiff’s position would have been
offended by the touching.”  (So v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652,
669.) Intent is satisfied if the defendant acted with
willful disregard of the plaintiff’s rights. (See Ashcraft v. King
(1991) 228 Cal.App.3d 604, 613.)  
“The
essential elements of a cause of action for assault are: (1) defendant acted
with the intent to cause harmful or offensive contact, or threatened to touch
plaintiff in a harmful or offensive manner; (2) plaintiff reasonably believed
she was about to be touched in a harmful or offensive manner or it reasonably
appeared to plaintiff that defendant was about to carry out the threat; (3)
plaintiff did not consent to defendant’s conduct; (4) plaintiff was harmed; and
(5) defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s
harm.”  (So v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652, 668-669.)  Physical injury is not required;
rather, the tort of assault is complete when anticipation of harm occurs.
(See Kiseskey v. Carpenters’ Trust for Southern California (1983)
144 Cal.App.3d 222, 232.) An intent to put the victim in imminent apprehension
of a harmful contact is enough. (Lowry v. Standard Oil Co. (1944) 63
Cal. App. 2d 1, 6–7.)
In support of his motion for summary
judgment, Defendant declares he only intended to transport his brother, Jack Torosian, to the auto
body repair shop. (UMF No. 2.) Defendant also declares had no intention to
cause bodily harm to any of Plaintiffs or other persons at the time of the
subject incident and that he did not threaten any of the Plaintiffs. (UMF Nos.
3-4.)
Defendant has met his burden on
summary judgment or adjudication to present evidence sufficient to show that
there are no triable issues of material fact as to whether he intended on committing
assault and battery, or whether he made any threats. The burden shifts to
Plaintiffs to present triable issues of material fact.
Plaintiffs
submitted evidence sufficient to show there are triable issues of material
fact. Plaintiffs submit the testimony of witnesses who were present at the
incident. Armen Jermakyan was present as the first
incident ended, and Jermakyan saw the Torosians return for the second incident.
(Jermakyan Decl., ¶ 3; Exh. 3.) Jermakyan saw the two brothers park in a
getaway position, blocking the driveway to the multi-business parking, Akop
brandishing a gun in an open and obvious fashion, with Robert carrying a metal
chain wrapped around his arm, asking for Fitilchyan and Gasparyan. (Id.,
¶¶ 3-5.) The brothers appeared “angry and aggressive,” and given the gun and
chain, the car being parked in a getaway position with the door open, Jermakyan
was in fear of his life and hid. (Id.) 
Ashot Mkhitaryan was present during Akop’s first encounter
with Plaintiffs. Mkhitaryan tried to de-escalate the situation with Akop, and
he texted Akop before to drop it, not to come to the body shop, and that Plaintiffs
were not trying to fight with him. (Mkhitaryan Depo., Exhs. 5, 5A, 5B at
56:23-57:16; 57:25-58:2.) 
Plaintiffs
also submit evidence that Defendant Robert punched Fitilchyan. (Fitilchyan
Decl., ¶ 2; Exh. E.) 
The
Court finds that Plaintiffs’ evidence that Robert showed up at the auto body
shop while parked in a getaway position, with a chain wrapped around his arm, accompanied
by his brother Akop who was openly brandishing a gun, asking for Plaintiffs,
and that Robert punched Fitilchyan, raise triable issues of material fact as to
whether Defendant intended to cause injury, and whether Defendant Robert threatened
Plaintiffs. Robert wrapped a chain around his arm, asked about Plaintiffs and
punched one of the Plaintiffs; the evidence presented tends to show that he
intended to cause harm and that he made threats. 
Defendant
is not entitled to summary judgment as to the cause of action for assault and
battery.
ii.
Conspiracy
Defendant
also moves for summary adjudication as to the cause of action for conspiracy
and argues that Plaintiffs cannot prove that he had any knowledge of a plan or
design.
To support a conspiracy claim, the following
elements must be shown: “(1) the formation and operation of the conspiracy, (2)
wrongful conduct in furtherance of the conspiracy, and (3) damages arising from
the wrongful conduct.” (Arei II Cases (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 1004,
1022.) Civil¿conspiracy¿is a “legal doctrine that imposes liability
on persons who, although not actually committing a tort themselves, share with
the immediate tortfeasors a common plan or design in its perpetration.” (Kidron
v. Movie Acquisition Corp.¿(1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1571, 1581.) The conspiring defendants must also
have actual
knowledge that a tort is planned and concur in the tortious scheme with
knowledge of its unlawful
purpose. (Id., at 1582.) “Mere
knowledge, acquiescence, or approval of an act, without cooperation or
agreement to cooperate is insufficient to establish liability." (Id.)
It must be recognized, however, that because of
the very nature of a conspiracy, “its existence must often be inferentially and
circumstantially derived from the character of the acts done, the relations of
the parties and other facts and circumstances suggestive of concerted action.”
(Arei II Cases, supra, 216 Cal.App.4th at 1022.)
To meet his burden, Defendant submits his own declaration, and
he declares that he did not have actual knowledge of any plan or design to shoot
or injure Plaintiffs. (UMF No. 5.) Defendant states that he accompanied his
brother to meet
with Fitilchyan for the purpose of discussing a business issue; not with any
knowledge that his brother intended to shoot or harm anyone. (UMF Nos. 2, 3.)
Defendant also states that he was not aware his brother had a gun. (UMF No. 7.)

Defendant
has met his burden on summary judgment to show there is no triable issue of
material fact as to whether he had any knowledge of a plan or design to shoot
or injure Plaintiffs. 
Plaintiffs
evidence of the witnesses’ statements that Robert and Akop entered the body
shop while openly carrying weapons, parked in a getaway position, angrily asked
for Plaintiffs, and Robert punched one plaintiff in the face, provides triable
issues of material fact as to Defendant’s knowledge of Akop’s plan. 
Further, Plaintiffs submit the testimony of Elda Madatyan,
Akop’s ex-wife, who declares that Robert and Akop were very close, and she
“regularly observed Jack [aka Akop] share his plans and problems with Robert
and would include Robert in everything important, whether personal or business
that Jack was dealing with or planning.” (Madatyan Decl., ¶ 5, Exh. D.) Akop
“does not plan, execute or take action of any consequence, without Robert’s
knowledge, guidance and/or approval.” (Id., ¶ 11.) 
The
evidence of Defendant’s conduct at the body shop, combined with the fact that
Defendants are brothers, and Madatyan’s statement that they are close and
confide in each other, provides triable issues of material fact as to whether
Robert knew of the plan and he acted in concert with Akop.
Defendant
next argues he did not have the requisite intent. The Court incorporates its discussion
above as to intent.
Thus,
Defendant is not entitled to summary adjudication as to the cause of action for
conspiracy. 
iii.
Negligence 
Defendant
also moves for summary judgment or adjudication, on the ground that he owed
Plaintiffs no duty of care.
“The elements of a cause of action for negligence are well
established. They are (a) a legal duty to use due care; (b) a breach of such
legal duty; [and] (c) the breach as the proximate or legal cause of the
resulting injury.” (Ladd v. County of San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913,
917, internal quotations omitted.) Every case is governed by the rule of
general application that all persons are required to use ordinary care to
prevent others from being harmed as a result of their conduct. (Weirum v.
RKO General, Inc. (1975) 15 Cal.3d 40, 46.) “The law imposes a general duty
of care on a defendant only when it is the defendant who has " ‘created a
risk’ " of harm to the plaintiff, including when " ‘the defendant is
responsible for making the plaintiff's position worse.’ " ” (Brown v.
U.S. Taekwondo (2021) 11 Cal.5th 204, 214.) An actor whose conduct has not
created a risk of physical or emotional harm to another has no duty of care to
the other. (Id.) Generally, one owes no duty to control the conduct of
another, nor to warn those endangered by such conduct unless an exception
applies. (Id.)
Defendant argues there is no relationship between
Defendant and Plaintiffs that gives rise to a duty. Defendant argues he was not
the instigator of any
physical altercation with Plaintiffs. (UMF No. 12.) Defendant argues he was
shot in the leg during the subject incident. (UMF No. 13.) Defendant argues did not
have a gun at the time of the subject incident. (UMF No. 14.) 
However, the evidence presented shows that Defendant and his
brother went to the body shop armed with weapons, despite being told that
Plaintiffs did not want to fight, and instigated the incident by showing up
with weapons, asking where Plaintiffs were, and punching one Plaintiff in the
face. Thus, there are triable issues of material fact as to duty as the
evidence suggests that Defendant also created the risk harm and thus, owes a
general duty of care to Plaintiffs.
Defendant also argues that the incident was not foreseeable
because Defendant had no intention to cause harm and he was not aware his
brother carried a gun. The Court disagrees and incorporates its analysis above
as to intent. Further, the fact that Robert also brought a weapon, and his
brother brandished the gun openly presents triable issues of material fact as
to whether he knew his brother brought a gun. The evidence thus suggests that
the harm was foreseeable.
Defendant also argues there is no evidence of breach. He
contends that Jack and Gasparyan, not Defendant, were the only people armed at
the time of the
subject incident. (UMF No. 16.) Defendant contends there is no evidence that
Defendant caused any harm or had any physical contact with Plaintiffs at the
time of the subject incident. (UMF No. 17.) 
The evidence presented by Plaintiffs shows that Defendant
brought a chain and punched a plaintiff. There are triable issues of material
fact as to whether he breached a duty.
iv. Loss of Consortium
“There are four elements to a cause
of action for loss of consortium: ‘(1) a valid and lawful marriage between the
plaintiff and the person injured at the time of the injury; [¶] (2) a tortious
injury to the plaintiff’s spouse; [¶] (3) loss of consortium suffered by the
plaintiff; and [¶] (4) the loss was proximately caused by the defendant’s act.’
[Citations.]” (Vanhooser v. Superior Court (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 921,
927 [emphasis removed].)
“Injury is an essential element of
any cause of action,” and, therefore, “[w]ithout injury to the spouse, the
plaintiff has no loss of consortium claim. Thus, a cause of action is not
complete in the sense it is not actionable, without spousal injury.” (Vanhooser,
supra, 206 Cal.App.4th at pp. 927-928.)
          Defendant
argues that because the underlying claims fail, the loss of consortium claim
fails too. 
However, as discussed above, Defendant is not
entitled to summary adjudication as to the causes of action above. Therefore,
Defendant is also not entitled to summary adjudication as to the cause of
action for loss of consortium. 
          v. Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
          Defendant moves for summary
adjudication of the cause of action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress, arguing that his conduct was not outrageous, and he did not intend to
cause harm.
“The elements of the tort of
intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous
conduct by the defendant; (2) the intention of causing, or reckless disregard
of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (3) the plaintiff's
suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (4) actual and proximate
causation of the emotional distress by the defendant's outrageous
conduct.”  (Christensen v. Superior
Court (1991) 54 Cal.3d 868, 903, internal quotations omitted.)  For conduct to be outrageous it must be “so
extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
community.”  (See Ess v. Eskaton
Properties, Inc. (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 120, 130.)  Liability does not extend to mere insults,
indignities, threats, annoyances, petty oppressions, or other
trivialities.  (Hughes v. Pair
(2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1051.)  “Severe
emotional distress means . . . emotional distress of such substantial quantity
or enduring quality that no reasonable man in a civilized society should be
expected to endure it.”  (Fletcher v.
Western Nat. Life Ins. Co. (1970) 10 Cal.App.3d 376.)   
“[I]t is not enough that the
defendant has acted with an intent which is tortious or even criminal, or that
he has intended to inflict emotional distress, or even that his conduct has
been characterized by ‘malice,’ or a degree of aggravation which would entitle
the plaintiff to punitive damages for another tort.”  (Cochran v. Cochran (1998) 65
Cal.App.4th 488, 496.)  “Liability has
been found only where the conduct has been so outrageous in character, and so
extreme in degree, as to go beyond all possible bounds of decency, and to be
regarded as atrocious, and utterly intolerable in a civilized community.”  (Id.) 
The
determination of “outrageousness” is generally an issue of fact to be
determined by the trier of fact, however, “the court may determine in the first
instance, whether the defendant's conduct may reasonably be regarded as so
extreme and outrageous as to permit recovery.” (Trerice v. Blue Cross of
California (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 878, 883.)
Defendant argues that accompanying his brother to the
auto body shop is not outrageous conduct. (UMF No. 2.) Defendant also argues he
had no intent to harm Plaintiffs.
The Court incorporates its discussion
above as to Defendant’s intent. As to whether Defendant’s conduct was
outrageous, the evidence presented by Plaintiffs shows that Robert accompanied
Akop to the body shop armed with weapons, parked the car blocking the driveway
in a getaway position, and approached the auto body shop yelling out for
Plaintiffs, with Robert punching Fitilchyan and Akop then shooting him. “Summary
judgment may not be granted unless reasonable minds can draw only one
conclusion from the evidence.” (Trerice, supra (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d at
885.) However, when reasonable persons may differ, it is for the jury, subject
to the control of the Court, to determine whether, in the particular case, the
conduct has been sufficiently extreme and outrageous to result in liability.¿ (Alcorn
v. Anbro Engineering, Inc. (1970) 2 Cal.3d 493, 499.) The Court finds it
is for the jury to determine whether the conduct was sufficiently extreme and
outrageous.
As
such, Defendant is not entitled to summary adjudication as to this cause of action.
          vi. Punitive Damages
Defendant argues there is no clear and convincing evidence
that he engaged in any act of malice, fraud, or oppression against plaintiffs.

Civil Code § 3294 provides, in pertinent part, as follows: 
 
(a)¿In an
action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it is
proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages,
may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing the
defendant. 
*** 
“Malice” is defined in section
3294(c)(1) as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury” or
“despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” “Oppression” is defined
in section 3294(c)(2) as “despicable conduct subjecting a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” 
The term
“despicable” has been defined in the case law as actions that are “base,”
“vile,” or “contemptible.” (See, e.g., Shade Foods, Inc. v. Innovative
Products Sales & Marketing, Inc. (2000) 78 Cal. App. 4th 847,
891.)  To prove that a defendant acted with
“willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others,” it is not
enough to prove negligence, gross negligence or even recklessness. (Dawes v.
Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 82, 87.)
While “the ‘clear and convincing’
evidentiary standard is a stringent one, it does not impose on a plaintiff the
obligation to ‘prove’ a case for punitive damages at summary judgment.” (Spinks
v. Equity Residential Briarwood Apartments (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1004,
1053.) However, where the plaintiff's ultimate burden of proof will be by clear
and convincing evidence, the higher standard of proof must be taken into
account in ruling on a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication,
since if a plaintiff is to prevail on a claim for punitive damages, it will be
necessary that the evidence presented meet the higher evidentiary standard. (Basich
v. Allstate Ins. Co. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1118–1120, 105 Cal.Rptr.2d 153.) Further,
summary judgment “on the issue of punitive damages is proper” only “when no
reasonable jury could find the plaintiff’s evidence to be clear and convincing
proof of malice, fraud or oppression.” (Id.) 
          As there are triable issues of material fact as to the
cause of action for IIED, there are also triable issues of fact as to whether
Defendant’s conduct was malicious to support a claim for punitive damages. 
          In the reply, Defendants argue that the wives are not
entitled to punitive damages. However, the complaint makes clear that only
Plaintiffs Gasparyan and Fitilchyan are seeking punitive damages against
Defendants. (Compl., ¶ 40.)
IV.     CONCLUSION AND ORDER
          The motion for
summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary adjudication is DENIED.
           
Dated:  September 26,
2024                    
                                                                             JARED D. MOSES JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT 
                                                                     