  Case Number:  23AHCV01599    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING PLAINTIFF TRISTAN C. HATFIELD’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES (SET ONE)I.        INTRODUCTION       This is an insurance coverage action arising from a motor vehicle accident. Plaintiffs Tristan C. Hatfield (“Hatfield”) and Lucille Annakilsby Renville (“Renville”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) sued Defendants California Casualty Insurance Company, California Casualty Indemnity Exchange (“Defendants”) and DOES 1 through 50, inclusive on July 12, 2023, alleging causes of action for (1) Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (2) Breach of Contract; and (3) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress.  On May 29, 2024, the Court sustained Defendant’s demurrer to the third cause of action without leave to amend and granted Defendant’s motion to strike the prayer for punitive damages. Plaintiffs allege Renville was involved in a motor vehicle accident with Mathew Thomas MacDougal who was driving a motorcycle. (Compl., ¶7.) Hatfield was the passenger on MacDougal’s motorcycle. (Id.) MacDougal and Hatfield suffered permanent injuries because of the accident. (Id.) Renville was covered by an insurance policy with Defendants and timely notified them of the accident. (Compl., ¶¶8-9.) Hatfield made a demand to settle the case for $100,000.00, which was rejected by Defendants. (Compl., ¶¶10-11.) On August 3, 2017, Hatfield filed a personal injury lawsuit against Renville titled Tristan C. Hatfield  v. Lucille Annakilsby Renville, Case No. BC670821 (“Underlying Action” or “U/A”). (Compl., ¶14.) The U/A went to trial and a verdict was rendered in Hatfield’s favor for a judgment of $9,082,710.00, costs, prejudgment interest, interest at 10 percent per annum. (Compl., ¶16.) Hatfield made a demand on Defendants to pay the judgment plus costs, prejudgment interest, and postjudgment interest. (Compl., ¶17.) Defendants refused to pay the judgment, costs, prejudgment interest, and postjudgment interest. (Compl., ¶18.) Defendants have paid a partial satisfaction of the judgment in the U/A totaling $380,882.97 consisting of $100,000.00 stated policy limits and two checks for post judgment interest of $280,882.97. (Compl., ¶20.)          On June 14, 2024, Hatfield filed the instant Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories (Set One). On September 13, 2024,  Defendant California Casualty Indemnity Exchange (“California Indemnity”) filed an opposition. On September 19, 2024, Hatfield filed a reply.II.      LEGAL STANDARDCode Civil Procedure Section 2030.300 governs motions to compel further responses to interrogatories. It provides as follows:“(a) On receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that any of the following apply:(1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete.(2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate.(3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too general.”Motions must be made within 45 days of any response or supplemental response (Subdivision (c)) and must be accompanied by a declaration demonstrating the parties met and conferred to attempt informal resolution; they must also be accompanied by a separate statement or concise outline. (Subdivision (b).)Subdivision (d) provides for the issuance of monetary sanctions against any party who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further responses, unless the court finds the party who would be subject to sanctions acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make sanctions unjust. On the 45-day limit: Golf & Pro Shop, Inc. v. Superior Court (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 127 A responding party is under a statutory obligation to provide responses that are “as complete and straightforward as the information reasonably available to the responding party permits.” (Code Civ. Proc. §2030.220, subd. (a).) Further, “If only part of an interrogatory is objectionable, the remainder of the interrogatory shall be answered,” and “the specific ground for the objection shall be set forth clearly in the response.” (Code Civ. Proc. §2030.240, subds. (a)-(b), italics added.) That is, to be code-compliant, a response should state all available information available and, if there is additional responsive information that is being withheld based on a privilege, it should so state and identify the privilege under which information is being withheld. Prefacing a substantive response with the words, “subject to and without waiving” all objections is not helpful in terms of understanding whether additional information is being withheld based on a privilege, and which privilege is at issue.           III.     ANALYSIS          Hatfield served her Special Interrogatories (Set One) on Defendant California Casualty Indemnity Exchange (“California Indemnity”). The parties engaged in meet and confer process pertaining to these discovery requests. (Nolan Mot. Decl., ¶2a.) California Indemnity provided further responses, which Hatfield argues are still deficient. (Nolan Mot. Decl., ¶2b.)          Hatfield now moves for an order compelling California Indemnity to provide further responses Special Interrogatories (“SROGs”) No. 3, 8, 9, 10 and 11. The following interrogatories seek the following information:           SROG No. 3 – “Identify by name, job title, and current contact information of each person who participated in the handling of the claim commonly known as Hatfield v. Renville, Claim No 59357186.” SROG No. 8 – “Identify when your investigation determined this was likely an excess liability claim.” SROG No. 9 – “Identify all facts that contributed to your determination that the claim was likely an excess claim.” SROG No. 10 – “Identify when your investigation determined this was a claim that was likely a liability claim for your insured(s).” SROG No. 11 – “Identify all facts that contributed to your determination that the claim was likely a liability claim for your insured(s).” In response to SROG no. 3, California Indemnity stated:“Objection, compound, vague, overbroad, not calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, ambiguous, vague as to the meaning and scope of “the handling of the claim”. This request seeks to invade the attorney client privilege and attorney work product privilege. This request seeks to invade the right to privacy of non-parties to this litigation. This request would necessitate the preparation of a compilation, abstract, audit or summary of documents where no such summary or compilation exits; because the burden or expense of preparing or making the compilation would be substantially the same for Responding Party as for the Propounding Party, Responding Party herewith offers to permit review of the documents from which propounding party can audit, inspect, copy or summarize. The documents from which the response may be obtained are the Claim Notes previously produced by Responding Party as Bates Nos. CCI-CF-0000001 through CCI-CF-001145. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 2030.230; and Brotsky v. State Bar of California (1962) 57 Cal.2d. 287.Subject to and without waiving these objections: This request would necessitate the preparation of a compilation, abstract, audit or summary of documents where no such summary or compilation exists; because the burden or expense of preparing or making the compilation would be substantially the same for the Responding Party as for the Propounding Party, Responding Party herewith offers to permit review of the document from which propounding party can audit, inspect, copy or summarize. The documents from which the response may be obtained are the Claim Notes previously produced by Responding Party as Bates Nos. CCI-CF-0000001 through CCI-CF-001145.”Hatfield argues the objections are meritless because the agents and employees of California Indemnity were working on behalf of Renville at the time of the handling of the claim, thus attorney-client privilege belongs to her and she sent waiver of such privileges to California Indemnity. Moreover, Hatfield contends the claims notes provided do not include the job titles of the employees handling the claim nor their contact information, which Plaintiffs might need in order to track down these witnesses independently if not produced by California Indemnity.In opposition, California Indemnity argues it adequately responded to SROG No. 3 pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 2030.230 because this claim spans over nine years and the claim notes referencing the claim are over 1,000 pages. Code of Civil Procedure Section 2030.230 states in pertinent part:“If the answer to an interrogatory would necessitate the preparation or the making of a compilation, abstract, audit, or summary of or from the documents of the party to whom the interrogatory is directed, and if the burden or expense of preparing or making it would be substantially the same for the party propounding the interrogatory as for the responding party, it is a sufficient answer to that interrogatory to refer to this section and to specify the writings from which the answer may be derived or ascertained. This specification shall be in sufficient detail to permit the propounding party to locate and to identify, as readily as the responding party can, the documents from which the answer may be ascertained. The responding party shall then afford to the propounding party a reasonable opportunity to examine, audit, or inspect these documents and to make copies, compilations, abstracts, or summaries of them.” Upon review of the Separate Statements, the Court finds that California Indemnity’s response is insufficient. Although there are purportedly over 1,000 pages of documents, which California Indemnity would have to review to identify the job title, name, and contact information of each person who were involved in the handling of the U/A. California Indemnity admits it has provided a list of 93 witnesses to the subject incident in response to Form Interrogatory No. 12.1. (Opp’n at 2:4-26.) Further, Hatfield contends the documents produced and identified as Bates Nos. CCI-CF-0000001 through CCI-CF-001145 California Indemnity provides in lieu of response to SROG No. 3 only contain the employee names not their job titles and/or contact information.  Therefore, California Indemnity must provide a response that supplies the information requested.  A generic reference to over 1,100 pages of produced documents is insufficient. In response to SROG nos. 8, 9, 10 and 11, California Indemnity stated:“Objection, vague, ambiguous, overbroad, argumentative, not calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, calls for legal analysis and a legal conclusion, seeks expert opinion from a layperson and seeks premature expert opinion. This request is vague and ambiguous and calls for speculation as to the meaning of “excess liability claim.” This request seeks to invade the attorney-client privilege and attorney work product doctrine. This request is vague and ambiguous and calls for speculation as to the scope and meaning of the undefined term “you” in that Responding Party is an unincorporated association, with numerous employees and agents, and thus, it is unclear given the nature of this interrogatory who “you” refers to.” Hatfield contends the purported ambiguities concerning SROGs Nos. 8, 9, and 11 were clarified during the meet and confer process. Next, Hatfield argues SROG No. 8 is relevant because the bad faith claim was made partially on the grounds that the policy was not tendered in a timely manner.  Therefore, when California Indemnity realized it was likely an excess liability claim, i.e., extra-contractual liability beyond the policy limits aka “open policy” is relevant to the issue of timing. As to SROG No. 9, Hatfield contends it is a follow-up to SROG No. 8 and is not objectionable because it relates to fact or the application of law to fact, not legal analysis or an expert opinion. Similarly, Hatfield asserts the privilege objections as to SROG No. 11 are inapplicable for the same reasons set forth regarding SROG No. 9. The Court notes that the moving papers and separate statement indicate Hatfield also seeks further response to SROG No. 10.  However, the moving papers and separate statement do not address SROG No. 10 nor any arguments to support further response to it. Nonetheless, California Indemnity provides SROG No. 10 in its separate statement. In opposition, California Indemnity argues SROG Nos. 8, 9, 10, and 11 asks Defendants to identify when an analysis related to any potential liability in this action was made, which would have come from California Indemnity’s counsel. More specifically, California Indemnity asserts the information sought by SROG Nos. 8, 9, 10, and 11 relate to when California Indemnity received a communication or advice from its attorney regarding their potentiality liability or existence of an open policy. However, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 2030.010, subdivision (b), “An interrogatory is not objectionable because an answer to it involves an opinion or contention that relates to fact or the application of law to fact, or would be based on information obtained or legal theories developed in anticipation of litigation or in preparation for trial.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.010, subd. (b).) As such, California Indemnity’s objections to SROG Nos. 8, 9, 10, and 11 are without merit.   IV.     CONCLUSION AND ORDER          Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff Tristan C. Hatfield’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories (Set One). Defendant California Casualty Indemnity Exchange is ordered to provide verified supplemental responses to Special Interrogatories (Set One) Nos. 3, 8, 9, 10 and 11 within 30 days of this order.          Plaintiff Hatfield to give notice of this order.         Dated: September 26, 2024                                                                                                                                           JARED D. MOSES JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT[TENTATIVE]
ORDER GRANTING PLAINTIFF TRISTAN C. HATFIELD’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER
RESPONSES TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS (SET ONE)I.        INTRODUCTION          This is an insurance coverage action
arising from  motor vehicle accident.
Plaintiffs Tristan C. Hatfield (“Hatfield”) and Lucille Annakilsby Renville
(“Renville”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) sued Defendants California Casualty
Insurance Company, California Casualty Indemnity Exchange (“Defendants”) and
DOES 1 through 50, inclusive on July 12, 2023, alleging causes of action for
(1) Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (2) Breach of
Contract; and (3) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress.            Plaintiffs allege Renville was
involved in a motor vehicle accident with Mathew Thomas MacDougal, who was
driving a motorcycle. (Compl., ¶7.) Hatfield was the passenger on MacDougal’s
motorcycle. (Id.) MacDougal and Hatfield suffered permanent injuries as
a result of the accident. (Id.) Renville was covered by an insurance
policy with Defendants and timely notified them of the accident. (Compl.,
¶¶8-9.) Hatfield made a demand to settle the case for $100,000.00, which was
rejected by Defendants. (Compl., ¶¶10-11.) On August 3, 2017, Hatfield filed a
personal injury lawsuit against Renville titled Tristan C. Hatfield  v. Lucille Annakilsby Renville, Case No.
BC670821 (“Underlying Action” or “U/A”). (Compl., ¶14.) The U/A went to trial and a verdict was rendered in
Hatfield’s favor for a judgment of $9,082,710.00, costs, prejudgment interest,
interest at 10 percent per annum. (Compl., ¶16.) Hatfield made a demand on
Defendants to pay the judgment plus costs, prejudgment interest, and
postjudgment interest. (Compl., ¶17.) Defendants refused to pay the judgment,
costs, prejudgment interest, and postjudgment interest. (Compl., ¶18.)
Defendants have paid a partial satisfaction of the judgment in the U/A totaling
$380,882.97 consisting of $100,000.00 stated policy limits and two checks for
post judgment interest of $280,882.97. (Compl., ¶20.)           On June 14, 2024, Hatfield filed the
instant Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of
Documents (Set One). On September 13, 2024, Defendant
California Casualty Indemnity Exchange (“California Indemnity”) filed an opposition. On September 19, 2024, Hatfield
filed a reply.     II.      LEGAL
STANDARD          A party responding to requests for inspection must either
provide a statement of compliance, represent that it lacks the ability to
comply, or object. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.210.)          - If a party responds with a statement of compliance, the
statement must indicate whether production will be allowed in whole or in part and
that all documents in the responding party’s possession, custody or control to
which no objection is being made will be included in the production. (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2031.220.)          - If a party responds that a particular demand cannot be
complied with it must include a representation that a diligent search and
reasonable inquiry have been made and that the inability to comply is because
the item has never existed, has been lost, stolen, or misplaced, or has never
been in or is no longer in the responding party’s possession, custody, or
control; such response must also identify the name and address of any person or
entity known or believed to have possession, custody, or control of the item or
category of item.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.230.)          - If a response includes objections, a privilege log
identifying documents being withheld must be provided. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.240.)          When a party propounding demands for inspection deems
responses to the responses to be incomplete or evasive, or deems objections to
be without merit, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
further responses. Such motion must set forth facts showing good cause for the
discovery, be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration, and include a
separate statement. Such motion must also be made within 45 days of verified
responses or supplemental responses, or on or before any specific later date
the parties have agreed to in writing. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310, subds. (a)-(c).)          Code Civil Procedure Section 2031.310, subdivision (h)
provides for the imposition of monetary sanctions against any party who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes such a motion unless the court finds that the
one subject to sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of sanctions unjust.III.     ANALYSIS          On September 6, 2023, Hatfield served her Requests for
Production of Documents (Set One) on Defendant California Casualty Indemnity
Exchange (“California Indemnity”). The parties engaged in meet and confer
process pertaining to these discovery requests. (Nolan Mot. Decl., ¶2a-b.)
California Indemnity provided further responses and a privilege log, which Hatfield
argues are still deficient. (Nolan Mot. Decl., ¶2d, 2g.) Hatfield sent another
meet and confer regarding the privilege log. (Id. at ¶2h.)          Hatfield now moves for an order compelling California
Indemnity to provide further responses and to produce documents for Request for
Production of Documents (“RFP”) No. 1, 3, and 17, and a supplemental privilege
log. The following requests seek the following information:           RFP No. 1 – “YOUR entire claims files in connection
with the CLAIM.” RFP
No. 3 – “All DOCUMENTS related to
YOUR internal review of the handling of the CLAIM, excluding that information
provided by retained outside coverage counsel.” RFP
No. 17 – “All versions of YOUR
form/template Third-Party Bodily Injury Releases used by YOU or provided by YOU
within the last ten years.” In
response to these requests, California Indemnity stated:“Objection,
vague and ambiguous. Responding Party also objects to this request to the
extent that it seeks information that is confidential and proprietary to
Responding Party. Responding Party objects to the extent this request seeks
documents prepared in anticipation of litigation, attorney-client privileged
information and/or attorney work product doctrine. Responding Party objects to
re-producing documents received from Plaintiffs in response to discovery or
from third parties in response to subpoenas served in this action, as these
documents are equally available to, and/or in the possession of, Plaintiffs.
Responding Party objects to re-producing documents received from Plaintiffs in
response to discovery or from third parties in response to subpoenas served in
this action, as these documents are equally available to, and/or in the
possession of, Plaintiffs. Subject
to and without waiving these objections: Responding Party will produce, in
whole, all responsive documents in its possession, custody or control.” In
opposition, California Indemnity asserts the present motion is moot because it
has now produced the entire claim file, in whole. Specifically, California
Indemnity contends it has produced documents referenced in the claim notes to
the extent they existed and were in its custody and control; produced all
emails and letters to and from Renville’s private attorney; and asserts it is
not in possession of the voicemails. California Indemnity also contends RFP No.
3 is duplicative of RFP No. 1, thus its production for RFP No. 3 has been
satisfied through the production for RFP No. 1 because the entire claim file
includes the internal review documents. (Opp’n at pp. 3-4.) As for RFP No. 17,
California Indemnity contends it will produce further documents or supplement
its response to indicate responsive documents do not exist before the hearing
on this matter. Although
California Indemnity has provided additional documents to RFP Nos. 1 and 3, Hatfield
asserts California Indemnity’s responses are not verified per Code Civil
Procedure Section 2031.250. (Nolan Reply Decl., ¶2, Ex. 1.) Furthermore,
California Indemnity has not produced further responses and/or produced
documents responsive to RFP No. 17. Thus, the instant motion is not moot. As
shown above, California Indemnity stated it would produce all responsive
documents to these requests. However, Hatfield contends that California
Indemnity only produced transcripts of the recorded calls sought by RFP Nos. 1
and 3, not the actual recordings themselves. Moreover, Hatfield contends that California
Indemnity produced only select pages, (i.e., 274 pages) from a library of
manuals instead of the claims manuals used in handling claims. Therefore, California Indemnity’s responses to and
document production for RFP Nos. 1, 3, and 17 are not sufficient.Privilege
Log and RedactionsAs
to the privilege log, Hatfield argues it includes significantly redacted claim
notes and copy-pasted boilerplate objection on the grounds of attorney-client
privilege. Hatfield contends that California Indemnity cannot claim
attorney-claim privilege because the attorneys working on this claim at the
time of the settlement demand and its rejection were working on behalf of
Renville, the insured. Hatfield further contends Renville and her parents all
signed a letter sent to California Indemnity instructing it to not assert those
privileges on their behalf. However, California Indemnity argues the redacted
portions of the claims notes are related solely to work product and
communications with its attorneys regarding the claims involved in this
litigation.  “A
privilege log must identify with particularity each document the responding
party claims is protected from disclosure by a privilege and provide sufficient
factual information for the propounding party and court to evaluate whether the
claim has merit.” (Catalina Island Yacht Club v. Superior Court (2015)
242 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1130.) Generally, an adequate privilege log will “provide
the identity and capacity of all individuals who authored, sent, or received
each allegedly privileged document, the document's date, a brief description of
the document and its contents or subject matter sufficient to determine whether
the privilege applies, and the precise privilege or protection asserted.” (Id.) Upon
review of the privilege log, the Court finds that it fails to provide
sufficient information for Hatfield and/or the Court to evaluate whether the
privilege claim has merit. Particularly, the current privilege at issue does
not provide the identity and capacity of the individuals who authored, sent, or
received the identified bate stamped documents, the date of these documents,
the type of communication, e.g., email or text messages, or clarify whether the
communications were with California Indemnity’s attorney versus Renville’s
attorney as disputed by the parties. Therefore,
a supplemental privilege log is warranted.  IV.     CONCLUSION
AND ORDER           Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS
Plaintiff Tristan C. Hatfield’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request
for Production of Documents (Set One).           Defendant California Casualty
Indemnity Exchange is ordered to provide verified supplemental responses and
production of documents to Request for Production of Documents (Set One) Nos.
1, 3, and 17 within 30 days of this order.            Plaintiff Hatfield to give notice of
this order.           Dated:  September 26, 2024                                                                                                                                             JARED D. MOSES  JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT











































































































                                                                    