 Case Number:  22STCV01203    Hearing Date:   February 5, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
740 South Broadway Associates, LLC,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22STCV01203




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Chol Enterprises, Inc.,


 
 
 
Defendant.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: February 5, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Set Aside Judgment;
Motion for Attorney’s Fees
 
T/R:      DEFENDANT’S
MOTION TO SET ASIDE JUDGMENT IS DENIED.
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION IS GRANTED IN THE
REDUCED AMOUNT OF $58,269.75 IN ATTORNEY’S FEES AND $3,302.44 IN COSTS.
 
PLAINTIFF TO NOTICE.
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing. 
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
oppositions, and replies.
 
A. Defendant Chol Enterprises Inc.’s
Motion to Set Aside Judgment
 
CCP § 473(b) provides, in pertinent
part, “[t]he court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his
or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other
proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect.”
 
Defendant moves to set aside the
judgment entered in favor of Plaintiff and against Defendant on August 29, 2023
following determination of Defendant’s motion to enforce settlement, on the
grounds of attorney error and excusable neglect. 
 
Defendant asserts that Defendant’s
former counsel did not understand that when the Court granted Plaintiff’s
request for live testimony at the August 24, 2023 hearing on the motion to
enforce settlement the testimony would be offered the same day. Defendant argues
that this prevented former counsel from properly cross-examining Plaintiff’s
witnesses or offering contrary evidence.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues the
motion should be denied because Defendant has not shown excusable neglect. The
Court agrees. Defendant had notice of the request for live testimony in the
motion itself, and Defendant did not request an extension or continuance. Defendant
was able to cross-examine Plaintiff’s witnesses, Defendant offered extensive
evidence in opposition to the motion, and the parties had been arguing over the
subject of testimony (who must install the standpipes) for six months.
Defendant had adequate notice and opportunity to be heard. 
 
Defendant’s motion is DENIED.
 
 
B. Plaintiff 740 South Broadway Associates, LLC’s Motion for Attorney’s Fees
 
The prevailing party in “any action on a contract” shall be awarded
reasonable attorney’s fees incurred to enforce that contract where the contract
specifically provides for attorney’s fees.  (Civ. Code § 1717(a).)
 
Plaintiff moves for $88,934.25 in attorney’s
fees and $3,302.44 costs in connection with enforcing the settlement agreement.
These fees were incurred between November 2022 and September 2023. In
opposition, Defendant asserts Plaintiff should not recover fees incurred before
Plaintiff filed its first unsuccessful motion to enforce settlement, Plaintiff’s
counsel’s hours and hourly rates are unreasonable and Plaintiff’s memorandum of
costs is untimely.
 
The Court agrees that Plaintiff should
not recover fees and costs incurred prior to the May 2, 2023 hearing denying
Plaintiff’s first motion to enforce settlement. Plaintiff is not entitled to
fees that were incurred in unsuccessfully attempting to enforce the settlement.
As for the remaining fees and hourly rates, the Court finds them reasonable. Plaintiff
timely served its memorandum of costs.
 
Plaintiff’s motion is GRANTED in the
reduced amount of $58,269.75 in attorney’s fees and $3,302.44 in costs.


 