  Case Number:  21STCP00529    Hearing Date:   February 5, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles




 
EHM Productions, Inc. dba TMZ,


 
 
 
Petitioner,


 
Case No.:
 


 
21STCP00529




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Starline Tours of Hollywood, Inc.,   
  


 
 
 
Respondent.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: February
5, 2023
Department 54,
Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for
Attorney’s Fees
Moving Party: Petitioner
EHM Productions, Inc. dba TMZ
Responding
Party: Respondent Starline Tours of Hollywood.
 
T/R:     PETITIONER’S MOTION FOR ATTORNEY’S FEES IS GRANTED.
 
PETITIONER TO NOTICE.  
 
If the parties
wish to submit on the tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the
hearing. 
 
The Court
considers the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
                
On October 1, 2021, the Court granted Petitioner’s motion to confirm an arbitration
award against Respondent.
 
ANALYSIS
 
The prevailing party in “any action on a contract” shall be awarded
reasonable attorney’s fees incurred to enforce that contract where the contract
specifically provides for attorney’s fees.  (Civ. Code § 1717(a).)
 
Petitioner moves for an award of attorney’s fees in the amount of $212,958.00. Petitioner’s counsel represents
that 265.9 hours were spent at rates between $292.50 and $1,065.00 per hour. 
 
In opposition, Respondent
asserts Petitioner cannot recover fees because it has not complied with the
Business & Professions Code reporting requirements with respect to its
status as a “dba,” and because counsel’s hours and hourly rates are excessive. 
 
The Court does not take issue
with counsel’s hours or hourly rates. This action entailed motion work and appellate
practice. Counsel’s rates are commensurate with their experience and expertise.
Counsel’s fees are reasonable.
 
The Court also finds
Respondent’s “dba” argument unpersuasive. Petitioner has prosecuted this action
under its true name, EHM. Respondent has never challenged the use of TMZ as a
“dba” prior to this opposition; nor does Respondent provide authority showing that
failure to comply with the Business & Professions Code’s reporting
requirements prohibits an award of fees.
 
Petitioner's motion is
GRANTED.


 