 Case Number:  23STCV14818    Hearing Date:   February 5, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Assetan Sylla,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV14818




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




Wesley Health Clinic,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: February 5, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
Demurrer to First Amended Complaint
Moving Party: Defendant Wesley Health Clinic
Responding Party: None
 
T/R:     DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER IS SUSTAINED
WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers.
No opposition has been received.
 
BACKGROUND
 
 On September 19, 2023, Plaintiff Assetan Sylla
filed the operative first amended complaint against Defendant Wesley Health
Clinic for medical negligence. Plaintiff alleges she sought treatment at the
Defendant clinic but was not seen despite having an appointment.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or to any
of the causes of action in it.  (CCP §
430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only
the legal sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual
allegations or the plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996)
50 Cal. App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court
must treat as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.  (Id. at 732-33.)  The complaint is to be construed liberally to
determine whether a cause of action has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
Defendant demurs to the FAC on the ground that it fails to state
sufficient facts. The elements of a
cause of action for medical malpractice are: (1) a duty to use such skill,
prudence, and diligence as other members of the profession commonly possess and
exercise; (2) a breach of the duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between
the negligent conduct and the injury; and (4) resulting loss or damage.” (Lattimore
v. Dickey (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 959, 968; CACI 500.)
 
Plaintiff alleges she was
made to wait for more than an hour for her appointment at the clinic, which led
her to cancel her appointment. This is not medical negligence. There are no
allegations that Defendant caused an injury in violation of the standard of
care.
 
Defendant’s demurrer is
SUSTAINED without leave to amend. Plaintiff has not opposed this motion to show
how leave to amend could cure the defects of the complaint. 
 
 