  Case Number:  SC125247    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING - No. 1
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


March 26, 2024




CASE NUMBER


SC125247




MOTIONS


Demurrer and Motion to Strike Answer




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Yazmin Ortiz




OPPOSING PARTIES


Defendants Rudy Eisler, individually and as trustee for
  the Eisler Family Living Trust; Stephen Eisler, individually and as trustee
  for the Eisler Family 2000 Living Trust; Theresa Eisler, individually and as
  trustee for the Eisler Family 2000 Living Trust; Wendy Eisler, individually
  and as trustee for the Eisler Family Living Trust; Eisler Investments; West
  End Properties; Robert Sundeen; Carole Sundeen; and Dustin Wells



 
MOTIONS
 
Plaintiff Yazmin Ortiz (“Plaintiff”) demurs to the answer and the first
amended answer filed by Defendants Rudy Eisler, individually and as trustee for
the Eisler Family Living Trust; Stephen Eisler, individually and as trustee for
the Eisler Family 2000 Living Trust; Theresa Eisler, individually and as
trustee for the Eisler Family 2000 Living Trust; Wendy Eisler, individually and
as trustee for the Eisler Family Living Trust; Eisler Investments; West End
Properties; Robert Sundeen; Carole Sundeen; and Dustin Wells (“Defendants”).  Plaintiff also moves to strike the answer and
first amended answer.  
 
The Court notes that the demurrer and motion to strike the original
answer were mooted by virtue of Defendants’ filing a first amended answer.  Therefore, the Court addresses only the
demurrer and motion to strike the first amended answer.
 
Defendants oppose both motions. 
Plaintiff did not reply.
 
MEET
AND CONFER REQUIREMENT
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section
430.41, subdivision (a) requires that “Before filing a demurrer pursuant to
this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”  
 
The statute further requires “As part of the meet and confer process,
the demurring party shall identify all of the specific causes of action that it
believes are subject to demurrer and identify with legal support the basis of
the deficiencies.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(1).)  “The party who
filed the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer shall provide legal support for
its position that the pleading is legally sufficient or, in the alternative,
how the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer could be amended to cure any
legal insufficiency.”  (Ibid.)
 
“The parties shall meet and confer at least five days before the date
the responsive pleading is due.  (Code
Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd. (a)(2).)  “The
demurring party shall file and serve with the demurrer a declaration stating
either” the means by which the parties met and conferred, or that the party who
filed the pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer
request.  (Id., subd.
(a)(3).)  
 
Here, the Friday before filing the instant demurrer and motion to
strike, Plaintiff called Defense counsel’s office, asking to speak to Mr.
Thomas Citron, who was not available, so Plaintiff hung up without asking to
speak to Katherine A. Tatikian, who filed and served Defendants’ answer, and
who was available.  (Ortiz Decl. ¶ 3; Tatikian
Decl. ¶ 4.)  
 
Therefore, the Court agrees with Defendants that Plaintiff’s meet and
confer efforts were insufficient.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Because Plaintiff has failed to adequately meet and confer with
Defendants prior to filing the instant demurrer and motion to strike the first
amended answer, the Court continues the hearing on both motions to April 18,
2024 at 8:30 A.M. in Department 207 so the parties may adequately meet and
confer in a good faith attempt to resolve their disputes with respect to the
pleadings without the need for judicial intervention.  Plaintiff and Defendants shall file
declarations regarding compliance with Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41,
subdivision (a), by no later than April 11, 2024.  
 
The Clerk of the Court shall provide notice of the Court’s
ruling.  
 
 
DATED:  March 26, 2024                                                      ___________________________
                                                                                    Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                    Judge of the Superior CourtTENTATIVE RULING - No. 2
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


March 26, 2024




CASE NUMBER


SC125247




MOTION


Motion for Reconsideration




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Yazmin Ortiz




OPPOSING PARTIES


Defendants Rudy Eisler, individually and as trustee for
  the Eisler Family Living Trust; Stephen Eisler, individually and as trustee
  for the Eisler Family 2000 Living Trust; Theresa Eisler, individually and as
  trustee for the Eisler Family 2000 Living Trust; Wendy Eisler, individually
  and as trustee for the Eisler Family Living Trust; Eisler Investments; West
  End Properties; Robert Sundeen; Carole Sundeen; and Dustin Wells



 
MOTION
 
            Plaintiff Yazmin Ortiz (“Plaintiff”)
moves for reconsideration of the Courts February 7, 2024 order denying
Plaintiff leave to file a supplemental complaint.  
 
Defendants Rudy Eisler, individually and as trustee for the Eisler
Family Living Trust; Stephen Eisler, individually and as trustee for the Eisler
Family 2000 Living Trust; Theresa Eisler, individually and as trustee for the
Eisler Family 2000 Living Trust; Wendy Eisler, individually and as trustee for
the Eisler Family Living Trust; Eisler Investments; West End Properties; Robert
Sundeen; Carole Sundeen; and Dustin Wells (“Defendants”) oppose the motion and
Plaintiff replies.
 
UNTIMELY
OPPOSITION
 
Plaintiff objects to Defendants’ opposition as untimely.    
 
Code of Civil Procedure, section 1005 provides that “all moving and
supporting papers shall be served and filed at least 16 court days before the
hearing” and “[a]ll papers opposing a motion so noticed shall be filed with the
court and a copy served on each party at least nine court days, and all reply
papers at least five court days before the hearing.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).)  The Court has discretion whether to consider
late filed papers.  (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1300(d).)
 
Plaintiff originally filed the Motion for Reconsideration, without a
proof of service, on February 20, and noticed the hearing for March 18,
2024.  On March 15, the Court granted
Plaintiff’s ex parte request to continue the hearing date on Plaintiff’s
pending demurrers and motion to strike, and also rescheduled the hearing on the
Motion for Reconsideration to March 26.  (See
March 15, 2024 Minute Order.)  Nine court
days prior to March 26 is March 13. 
Defendants filed the opposition on March 15.
 
  To explain the delay, Defendants’
counsel points out that there is no proof of service indicating the motion for
reconsideration was ever served and declares that she did not receive actual
notice of Plaintiff’s motion for reconsideration until the March 15, 2024
hearing.  (Tatikian Decl. ¶ 2.)  In reply, Plaintiff provides a declaration
demonstrating that she electronically served Defendants’ counsel, Thomas
Citron, with the motion for reconsideration on February 20, 2024, via the
e-filing service Plaintiff used for the filing.
 
Therefore, the Court finds that service was lawfully effectuated and there
is no due process violation.  Notwithstanding,
the Court also exercises its discretion and considers Defendants’ opposition, considering
counsel’s representation that she had no actual notice that the motion had been
filed until the March 15 hearing, and there being no evidence of prejudice to
Plaintiff, as Plaintiff timely filed a reply.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1008, subdivision (a), “[w]hen an application for an order has been
made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or
granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within
10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order
and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make an
application to the same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the
matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order.  The party making the application shall state
by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what
order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances,
or law are claimed to be shown.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (a).)  Where
the statutory requirements are met, reconsideration should be granted; upon
reconsideration, however, the court may simply reaffirm its original
order.  (Corns v. Miller (1986)
181 Cal.App.3d 195, 202.)  
 
The moving party on a motion for
reconsideration “must provide not only new evidence but also a satisfactory
explanation for the failure to produce that evidence at an earlier time[.]” (Mink
v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.App.4th 1338, 1342, internal quotations
&citations omitted; see New York Times Co. v. Superior Court (2005)
135 Cal.App.4th 206, 21 [on a motion for reconsideration, a party must present
new or different facts, circumstances, or law, which the moving party “could
not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered or produced” in connection with
the original hearing].)
 
ANALYSIS
 
            Plaintiff moves for reconsideration
of the Court’s February 7 Minute Order denying Plaintiff’s motion to file a
supplemental complaint.  The “new
information and circumstances” upon which Plaintiff bases her motion are (1) Plaintiff
was previously unaware of the need to provide the Court sufficient facts, such
as case numbers, to analyze her contentions that two other cases she filed were
dismissed with instructions to re-file those claims in this case for purposes
of consolidation (Mot. for Leave to File Supplemental Complaint at p. 5; Reply
at p. 5.); and (2) Defendants filed an answer and an amended answer to the
operative complaint after the Court’s order denying Plaintiff leave.
 
            Case Numbers
 
            As explained in the Court’s February
7, 2024 Minute Order, “Plaintiff’s newfound awareness or understanding of the
legal and procedural requirements for properly filing her claims does not
constitute ‘new facts[.]’”  (February 7,
2024 Minute Order at p. 6.)  Similarly, that
Plaintiff did not understand she failed to provide the Court sufficient
evidence to prevail on her motion until after she read the Court’s denial order
also does not constitute “new information or circumstances” warranting
reconsideration.
 
            In any event, upon reviewing case
numbers BC685414 and 18STCV06997, the Court notes that both cases were
dismissed for failure to prosecute because Plaintiff failed to serve
Defendants.  The Court sees no evidence to
support Plaintiff’s narrative that those cases were dismissed for the purpose
of consolidation, with instructions for Plaintiff to re-file those causes of
action in this case instead.  Plaintiff’s
narrative also does not comport with the consolidation procedures outlined in Superior
Court Local Rule 3.3(g) and Code of Civil Procedure section 1048, subdivision
(a).  As such, the newly-provided case
numbers do not constitute “new information” or “circumstances” warranting
reconsideration.
 
            Prejudice
 
            Nor does the fact that Defendants answered
the operative complaint after the Court’s ruling constitute “new information”
or “circumstances” impacting the Court’s prior prejudice analysis.  
 
By way of background, the Court sustained Defendants’ demurrer and
granted Defendants’ motion to strike as to the first amended complaint on
December 6, 2022, giving Plaintiff 30 days’ leave to amend the twelfth cause of
action as to Defendants Eisler Investments and West End Properties only, and to
amend Plaintiff’s claim for injunctive relief. 
(December 6, 2022 Minute Order at p. 10.)  Plaintiff contends she did timely submit a
second amended complaint, which the clerk refused to file.  However, the second amended complaint Plaintiff
submitted far exceeds the scope of the leave granted.  As such, Plaintiff did not timely file a
second amended complaint in conformance with the Court’s December 6 order.
 
Plaintiff also moved for reconsideration of that order on December 16,
which the Court denied on February 6. 
That same day, Plaintiff moved for leave to amend the complaint.  
 
On February 3, Plaintiff also filed an appeal from an order entered on
December 6, 2022, described as “An order granting Anti-SLAPP Motion to Strike
(CA CCP 425.16) Attorney Fees at trial and appellate courts.”  On July 19, 2023, the appellate court
dismissed the appeal.  
 
On October 23, 2023, the Court heard and denied Plaintiff’s motion for
leave to amend the complaint, on both procedural and substantive grounds.  (See October 23, 2023 Minute Order.)  On January 10, 2024, Plaintiff moved to file
a supplemental complaint, which the Court denied on February 7.  
 
Thus, Defendants’ delay in answering the operative complaint makes
sense considering Plaintiff’s repeated attempts to amend and/or supplement the operative
complaint.  In any event, Plaintiff did
not seek an entry of default.  Thus, even
if Defendants’ answer were technically untimely, Plaintiff has not been
prejudiced.  And in the interim, the
parties have continued to prepare for trial, submitting jury instructions,
witness lists, trial exhibits, etc. and otherwise continue to prepare for
trial.  Thus, the recent answer does not prejudice
Plaintiff, or otherwise reduce the prejudice Defendants will face if Plaintiff
is permitted to expand the causes of action from one to thirty-two on the eve
of trial.
 
Therefore, Defendants’ recent answer also does not constitute new
facts or circumstances warranting reconsideration.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            Therefore, finding no new facts or
circumstances warranting reconsideration, the Court denies Plaintiff’s motion
for reconsideration.
 
            The Clerk of the Court shall provide
notice of the Court’s ruling.   
 
 
DATED:  March 26, 2024                                          ___________________________
                                                                        Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                        Judge of the Superior Court