 Case Number:  24STCV02433    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     May
2, 2024                                                   TRIAL DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Kenneth W. Wright, M.D. v. City of Los Angeles 
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV02433
 





















 
DEMURRER
WITHOUT MOTION TO STRIKE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
City of Los Angeles 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Kenneth
W. Wright, M.D.
 
 
I.          FACTUAL AND
PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND
 
Between 2001 and 2023, Plaintiff Kenneth W. Wright, M.D.
(“Plaintiff” or “Dr. Wright”) operated a medical practice out of a building he
owned on San Vicente Boulevard.  Plaintiff
alleges that beginning in early 2022, “a tent city was erected around Dr.
Wright’s medical practice.” (FAC, ¶ 11.)  The encampment presented health and safety risks.  On February 4, 2023, a fire broke out at the
encampment which damaged Dr. Wright’s building and surrounding properties.  Prior to the fire, Dr. Wright and his staff
called the Los Angeles Police Department (“LAPD”) numerous times to complain about
the encampment.  LAPD acknowledged the homeless
encampment was illegal, but nothing was done.  Finally in May 2023, the City removed the
homeless encampments. 
 
            Plaintiff
filed an action against the City of Los Angeles (“City” or “Defendant”) in
federal court for public nuisance and dangerous condition on public property.  On January 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
identical action against the City in this court.  Plaintiff dismissed the federal case on
February 6, 2024.
 
            On March 5,
2024, Plaintiff filed the operative Verified First Amended Complaint (FAC).  The FAC asserts causes of action for Public
Nuisance and Dangerous Condition on Public Property.
 
            On April 4,
2024, the City filed this Demurrer to the FAC.
 
            Plaintiff
filed an opposition.  The City replied.
 
II.        JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Plaintiff requests judicial notice of (1) Los
Angeles Municipal Code Section 41.18 and (2) the Legislative history related to
Los Angeles Municipal Code Section 41.18. 
The unopposed request is GRANTED. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (b).)
 
III.      LEGAL STANDARD FOR DEMURRER
            A demurrer
tests the legal sufficiency of the pleadings and will be sustained only where
the pleading is defective on its face.¿ (City of Atascadero v. Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459.)¿
“We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.¿ We accept the factual
allegations of the complaint as true and also consider matters which may be
judicially noticed.¿ [Citation.]”¿ (Mitchell v. California Department of
Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del E. Webb Corp. v.
Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the facts alleged
in the pleading are deemed to be true, however improbable they may be”].)
Allegations are to be liberally construed.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.)¿ In
construing the allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual
allegations that may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory
allegations.¿ (Financial Corporation of America v. Wilburn (1987) 189
Cal.App.3d 764, 769.)¿¿  
            A
demurrer may be brought if insufficient facts are stated to support the cause
of action asserted.¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).)¿“A demurrer for
uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects
uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.”¿(Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th
612, 616.)¿¿¿ 
            Where the
complaint contains substantial factual allegations sufficiently apprising
defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for uncertainty
will be overruled or plaintiff will be given leave to amend.¿ (Williams v.
Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)¿ Leave to
amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment.¿ (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿ The burden
is on the complainant to show the court that a pleading can be amended
successfully. (Ibid.)¿
IV.       DISCUSSION
 
            Meet and Confer
 
            “Before filing a demurrer pursuant
to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person, by
telephone, or by video conference with the party who filed the pleading that is
subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be
reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)¿ Here, defense counsel has complied with the
meet and confer requirement. (See Declaration of Jessica Mariani, ¶¶ 2-5.)
 
            Analysis
 
The City advances three
arguments in support of its Demurrer: (1) the FAC is barred by the separation
of powers doctrine, (2) the FAC is barred by governmental immunities, and (2) the
FAC does not state a valid claim for
public nuisance or dangerous condition on public property.
 
A.    
Separation of Powers 
 
Plaintiff alleges the
encampment presented a “significant health and safety risk to Dr. Wright, his
staff, patients, and the general public, created due to the lack of bathrooms,
risk of COVID-19 spread, violence, noise, lack of access, indecent exposure,
and risk of fires.”  (FAC, ¶ 11.)  Further, “Dr. Wright and his staff made
numerous calls to the Los Angeles Police Department (hereinafter “LAPD”), … to
report the continued nuisance and danger of the public sidewalks surrounding
Dr. Wright’s medical building.  On
November 27, 2022, Dr. Wright was informed by Officer O’Brien that the LAPD was
under direction not to intervene regarding the homeless encampment on the
public sidewalk and the subsequent nuisance and danger it created.  LAPD acknowledged the homeless encampment was
illegal, but nothing was done.”  (FAC, ¶ 12.)
 
Pointing to the
foregoing allegations, the City argues the separation of powers doctrine bars
Plaintiff’s claims because the relief Plaintiff seeks intrudes upon the City’s discretionary
legislative and decision-making authority. 

 
“[P]rinciples of
comity and separation of powers restrain courts’ authority to order acts within
the discretion of other branches of government.”  (Butt v. State of California (1992)
4 Cal.4th 668, 695 (Butt).)  “[U]nder
the separation of powers doctrine, courts lack power to interfere with
legislative action at either the state or local level.”  (Friends of H Street v. City of Sacramento
(1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 152,  (Friends
of H Street); see also California School Bds. Ass’n v. State of
California (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 770, 799 (California School Bds. Ass’n
) (“The California Constitution’s separation of powers doctrine
forbids the judicial from issuing writs that direct the Legislature to take
specific action, including to appropriate funds and pass legislation.”).)
 
            A review of the FAC does not support
the City’s position.  Plaintiff seeks
compensatory, general, and special damages according to proof.  (See Prayer of FAC.)  There are no requests for injunctive relief
asking this court to compel the City to enforce a law or otherwise act in a specific
manner.  The cases upon which the City
relies prove the point.  (See Friends
of H Street, supra, 20 Cal.App.4th at p.157 [“plaintiff filed a
complaint for nuisance seeking injunctions to force the City to reduce the
traffic speed and volume on H Street.”]; California School Bds. Ass’n, supra,
192 Cal.App.4th at p. 779 [“The School Districts sought several forms of
relief, including: … (2) injunctive relief ….”]; Citizens for Odor Nuisance
Abatement v. City of San Diego (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 350, 353 [“CONA brought
four causes of action, all resting on a public nuisance theory. First, CONA
sought an order to show cause as to why the foul odor should not be ordered
abated as a public nuisance. Second, CONA sought injunctive relief to prevent
irreparable harm from the nuisance. Third, CONA sought declaratory relief that
the City violated California law by failing to abate the odor nuisance. Fourth,
CONA sought a writ of mandate directing the City to comply with California law
by remedying the odor nuisance.”]; Jones v. City of L.A. (9th Cir. 2006)
444 F.3d 1118, 1120, vacated by settlement in Jones v. City of L.A. (9th
Cir. 2007) 505 F.3d 1006 [“Appellants seek limited injunctive relief from
enforcement of the ordinance during nighttime hours ….”].)  In short, Plaintiff does not ask this
court to violate any longstanding separation of powers principle by way of
injunctive relief.
 
            B. Governmental Immunities[1]
 
            The City next argues the FAC is
barred by various governmental immunities codified at Government Code sections 815.2,[2] 818.2,
820.2,[3] and
845[4].  The court agrees, at least as with respect to Government
Code section 818.2.  And Government Code
section 818.2 is dispositive.    
Section 818.2
provides, “A public entity is not liable for an injury caused by adopting or
failing to adopt an enactment or by failing to enforce any law.”  Here, Plaintiff alleges that he spoke with an
Officer Ian O’Brien who specifically informed Plaintiff “that the LAPD was
under direction not to intervene regarding the homeless encampment on the
public sidewalk and the subsequent nuisance and danger it created.  LAPD acknowledged the homeless encampment was
illegal, but nothing was done.”  (FAC, ¶
12.)  As alleged, Plaintiff’s claims are
based on the City’s decision not to enforce a law.  Section 818.2 forecloses liability for such an
act or omission.[5]  Plaintiff’s opposition does not address the
preclusive effect of Section 818.2. 
 
The immunity
afforded by Section 818.2 applies to discretionary functions.  The City argues it is insulated from
liability for discretionary decisions in addressing the homelessness crisis.  “The immunity afforded by Government
Code sections 818.2 and 821 attaches only to discretionary
functions.”  (Nunn v. State of
California (1984) 35 Cal.3d 616, 622.) 
“A ministerial duty is one that is required to be performed in a
prescribed manner under the mandate of legal authority without the exercise of
discretion or judgment.” (County of San Diego v. State of California
(2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 580, 593.) 
 
Of course, discretionary
functions are different from mandatory duties.  Government Code section 815.6 provides, “Where
a public entity is under a mandatory duty imposed by an enactment that is
designed to protect against the risk of a particular kind of injury, the public
entity is liable for an injury of that kind proximately caused by its failure
to discharge the duty unless the public entity establishes that it exercised
reasonable diligence to discharge the duty.”
To establish a
mandatory or ministerial duty, the enactment at issue must be obligatory,
rather than merely discretionary or permissive, in its directions to the public
entity; it must require, rather than merely authorize or permit, that a
particular action be taken or not taken.” 
(Hacala v. Bird Rides, Inc. (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th 292, 305–06 (Hacala),
citing Haggis v. City of Los Angeles (2000) 22 Cal.4th 490, 498 (cleaned
up) (italics in original).)  
 
            Although not argued (or pleaded in
the FAC) as a statute which imposes a mandatory duty, Plaintiff cites the
legislative history of Los Angeles Municipal Code section 41.18 for the
proposition that the City was “aware of the likelihood that the homeless would
utilize public sidewalks for their encampments and the dangers posed by this
issue.”  (Opp., p. 8.)  Section 41.18 prohibits sleeping or storing
personal items on a street or sidewalk.  Absent,
however, from Section 41.18 is any language that can be reasonably be read to impose
a mandatory duty on the City to remove homeless encampments on sidewalks.  Section 41.18 does not impose such a duty on
the City and, as a result, Plaintiff’s cannot hold the City liable based upon
such a theory.  Indeed, Plaintiff does
not point to a statute that imposes a mandatory duty.  Plaintiff’s claims are thus barred by
Government Code section 818.2. 
 
            C. 
Failure to State a Claim
 
            Alternatively, even if Section 818.2
does not apply, Plaintiff’s claims do not state valid claims for nuisance or dangerous
condition of public property.
 
            1. 
Public Nuisance 
 
 Civil Code section 3479 defines “nuisance” as
“[a]nything which is injurious to health, including, but not limited to … an
obstruction to the free use of property, so as to interfere with the
comfortable enjoyment of life or property, or unlawfully obstructs the free
passage or use, in the customary manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay,
stream, canal, or basin, or any public park, square, street, or highway, is a
nuisance.”   A “public nuisance” is “‘one which affects at
the same time an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number
of persons, although the extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon
individuals may be unequal.’ (Civ. Code, § 3480.)”  (Citizens for Odor Nuisance Abatement v.
City of San Diego (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 350, 358–59.)  To maintain a cause of action for public
nuisance, a plaintiff must plead “the existence of a duty and causation.”  (Melton v. Boustred (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th
521, 542.) “Causation is an essential element of a public nuisance claim. A
plaintiff must establish a “connecting element” or a “causative link” between
the defendant's conduct and the threatened harm.”  (Id. at p. 359.)  “Causation may consist of either ‘(a) an act;
or [¶] (b) a failure to act under circumstances in which the actor is under a duty
to take positive action to prevent or abate the interference with the public
interest or the invasion of the public interest.’ [Citations.]”  (Id.)
 
The City argues that
Plaintiff does not allege a duty or causation. 
The court agrees.  As discussed
above, Plaintiff does not allege any statute which imposes a mandatory duty to remove
the homeless encampments on public property. 
Having not alleged the existence of a duty, Plaintiff likewise fails to
establish that the City’s failure to act caused Plaintiff’s injury.  
 
2.  Dangerous Condition of Public Property
 
To establish a
claim of dangerous condition on public property, a plaintiff must
prove: (1) that the defendant owned or controlled the property; (2) that the
property was in a dangerous condition at the time of the injury; (3) that
the dangerous condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk of the
kind of injury that occurred; (4) that defendant had notice of the dangerous condition
for a long enough time to have protected against it; (5) that plaintiff was
harmed; and (6) that the dangerous condition was a substantial factor
in causing plaintiff’s harm.¿ (Gov. Code, § 835; CACI No. 1100.)¿¿¿¿“Dangerous
condition” means a condition of property that creates a substantial (as
distinguished from a minor, trivial or insignificant) risk of injury when such
property or adjacent property is used with due care in a manner in which it is
reasonably foreseeable that it will be used.”   (Gov.
Code, § 830, subd. (a).)  
 
Section 835.2 continues,
and provides in pertinent part: “(a) A public entity had actual notice of a
dangerous condition within the meaning of subdivision (b) of Section 835 if it
had actual knowledge of the existence of the condition and knew or should have
known of its dangerous character. [¶] (b) A public entity had constructive
notice of a dangerous condition within the meaning of subdivision (b) of
Section 835 only if the plaintiff establishes that the condition had existed
for such a period of time and was of such an obvious nature that the public
entity, in the exercise of due care, should have discovered the condition and
its dangerous character....”  (Gov. Code,
§ 835.2.) 
 
The City argues Plaintiff
cannot establish that the public sidewalk was itself a dangerous
condition.  The court agrees.  “A public entity may be liable under
Government Code section 835 for failing to take protective measures to
safeguard the public from a dangerous condition of the property itself;
however, when the danger at issue is third-party conduct, liability attaches
only if the alleged physical condition of the property “increased or
intensified” the risk of misconduct.”  (Hacala,
supra, 90 Cal.App.5th at p. 308, citing Zelig v. County of Los
Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.4th 1112, 1137 (italics in original).)  
 
Here, Plaintiff
identifies the dangerous condition as the homeless encampment and the persons
inhabiting the encampment.  There are no
allegations describing the condition of the sidewalk itself.  As such, Plaintiff is describing, at most,
harmful third-party conduct.  The
dangerous condition of public property claim is deficient.
 
Plaintiff opposes the
result on the grounds that “the question of whether the homeless presence
and/or encampments . . . could easily be seen as a dangerous condition and
therefore should be treated as a question of fact for the jury to decide.”  (Opp., p. 8.) 
The cases cited by Plaintiff, however, favor the City’s arguments, not Plaintiff’s.  (See Cole of Town of Los Gatos (2012)
205 Cal.App.4th 749, 755 [in wrongful death action from a car accident,
plaintiff alleged that the defendant town failed to provide and/or maintain
adequate lane channelization, provide protective barriers, curb, or bollards,
among other things]; see also Cordova v. City of Los Angeles (2015) 61
Cal.4th 1099, 1106 [concerning whether a magnolia tree planted in the center
median was a dangerous condition in a negligent driving case].)  Without any allegations describing a dangerous
condition of the property itself, Plaintiff essentially seeks to hold the City
liable for third-party conduct.  
 
V.          CONCLUSION
            
Based on the foregoing, the City’s Demurrer to the FAC is SUSTAINED,
leave to amend is granted.  Plaintiff shall
have twenty days from the date of this Order to file a First Amended Complaint.
  
 
Defendant to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   May 2, 2024                                   




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
            


