 Case Number:  23STCV06111    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     May
2, 2024                           TRIAL
DATE:  April 14, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Alison Cassidy v. WB Studio Enterprises, Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV06111





















 
MOTION
TO QUASH SUBPOENA OF EMPLOYMENT RECORDS



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Alison Cassidy
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendants WB
Studio Enterprises, Inc. and Steve Caloca
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            Plaintiff Alison Cassidy (“Cassidy” or “Plaintiff”) was
hired by WB Studio Enterprises, Inc. (“WB Studio”) as Manager of Food Service
Operations in July 2021.  Plaintiff’s
supervisor was Director of Food Services Steve Caloca (“Caloca”).  In February 2022, Plaintiff complained to
human resources that Caloca was creating a hostile work environment.  After making the complaint, Caloca undermined
Plaintiff’s relationships with the rest of the staff, ignored her ideas,
excluded her from important discussions, gave her job duties belonging to
others, and did not credit Plaintiff for her ideas that were adopted.  In September 2022, Plaintiff complained to
human resources about Caloca’s retaliation. 
In October 2022, WB Studio terminated Plaintiff’s employment.
 
On March 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Complaint against WB
Studio and Caloca (hereafter, Defendants”), for (1) Hostile Work Environment,
(2) Retaliation, (3) Failure to Prevent Harassment and Retaliation, and (4) Wrongful
Termination in Violation of Public Policy.  
 
On November 8, 2023, the parties entered into a Joint
Stipulation and Protective Order Re: Confidential Designation Only (“Protective
Order”).  The court signed the Protective
Order on November 13, 2023.
 
            On February
23, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion to quash Defendants’ subpoenas directed at
Plaintiff’s past employer and present employers, Level 8, Houston Hospitality
LLC, Mann Gelon Glodney Gumerove Yee LLP, Bourbon Steak, and the Ming Group,
LLC.  Plaintiff does not seek sanctions.
 
            On April
19, 2024, Defendants filed an opposition.[1]  Defendants request sanctions.
 
            On April
25, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD 
If a subpoena requires the
attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, electronically
stored information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands such as
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
1987.1.)¿ 
III.       DISCUSSION
A. 
Defendants’ Subpoena Categories
            Defendant
issued a total of five subpoenas.  The
subpoenas are directed at Plaintiff’s past and present employers and contain the
following identical categories: 
1.     
Application for employment (or engagement as an
independent contractor piece rate work or assignments, consultant, etc.),
resume(s), and interview notes of CASSIDY; 
2.     
DOCUMENTS and correspondence, electronic or otherwise,
pertaining to offers of employment or engagement extended to CASSIDY; 
3.     
DOCUMENTS and correspondence, electronic or otherwise,
sent by CASSIDY in response to offers of employment (or engagement as an
independent contractor, piece rate work or assignments, consultant, etc.); 
4.     
DOCUMENTS and correspondence, electronic or otherwise,
RELATING to reference checks for employment (or engagement as an independent
contractor) of CASSIDY;
5.     
DOCUMENTS that reflect the job titles, duties, and
compensation earned for each position CASSIDY applied for, and/or held; 
6.     
W-2 and/or 1099 forms supplied to CASSIDY; 
7.     
Performance reviews and/or evaluations, warnings, and
disciplinary notices (electronic, verbal or written), issued to CASSIDY; 
8.     
DOCUMENTS and correspondence, electronic or otherwise,
concerning discrimination, harassment, or retaliation investigations conducted,
and findings thereof, that reference CASSIDY; 
9.     
The complete contents of CASSIDY’s personnel/employment
file, including the file jacket; 
10.  Payroll
and salary information including, but not limited to, any and all checks or
other evidence of payment for salary, compensation, commissions, and/or bonuses
issued to CASSIDY; 
11.  DOCUMENTS
RELATED to reasons for the termination of CASSIDY’s employment, if applicable; 
12.  DOCUMENTS
RELATED to reasons for CASSIDY’s resignation of employment, if applicable; 
13.  Civil,
administrative, and/or internal complaints that reference CASSIDY; and 
14.  All
settlement terms, agreements, and/or memoranda of understanding, whether verbal
or written, that reference CASSIDY, unless subject to a confidentiality
agreement.
B. 
Analysis
Plaintiff challenges the subpoenas
on the following grounds: (1) the subpoenas violate Plaintiff’s right to
privacy, and (2) the subpoenas seek records that are neither relevant nor
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.  
1.      Privacy 
The right of privacy of individuals
is protected by the California Constitution. (Cal. Const., Art. I, § 1.) In
ruling on discovery motions, the court must balance the privacy claims of the
responding party with the requesting party’s need for the information. (Schnabel
v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 704, 718-722.)¿¿ In Hill v. National
Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 35, the California Supreme
Court fashioned a framework for evaluating potential invasions of
privacy.  The party asserting the right of privacy must establish (1) a
“legally protected privacy interest”; (2) an “objectively reasonable
expectation of privacy in the given circumstances”; and (3) a “threatened
intrusion that is serious.”  (Williams
v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552 (Williams).)  If
Plaintiff meets this standard, Defendants must then show that the requested
documents are “directly relevant” to the litigation.[2]¿¿¿ 
Plaintiff turns to Lantz v.
Superior Court (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 1839 and Britt v. Superior Court (1978)
20 Cal.3d 844, in support of her contention that Defendant must
demonstrate a compelling need for the discovery. Lantz does not help
Plaintiff’s cause. Lantz involved privacy limitations on the scope of medical
records in a sexual harassment case. Similarly in Britt v. Superior
Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, the defendant sought to discover
plaintiff’s entire medical history, including all illnesses, injuries,
and mental or emotional disturbances for which they had sought treatment any
time in their lives. With respect to these types of invasions of privacy, the
California High Court had little trouble requiring a defendant to explain why
“probing into this area is directly relevant.” (Vinson v. Superior Court (1987)
20 Cal.3d 844, 842.)  That is not this
case.         
Having filed suit and having
asserted a privacy interest in her employment records, Plaintiff bears the
initial burden under Hill.  Plaintiff does not meet that burden.
Plaintiff fails to establish a blanket privilege to the information sought, an
expectation of privacy in all of the information sought or how the threatened
intrusion is serious, especially in light of the Protective Order in
place.  As such, the burden does not shift to Defendants to demonstrate
the direct relevance of the requested documents.  Instead, unless
specifically addressed, the general rules of discovery apply: “For discovery
purposes, information is relevant if it might reasonably assist a party in
evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement .... Admissibility
is not the test and information unless privileged, is discoverable if it might
reasonably lead to admissible evidence. These rules are applied liberally in
favor of discovery, and (contrary to popular belief), fishing expeditions are
permissible in some cases.”  (Garamendi
v. Golden Eagle Ins. Co (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 694, 712, fn 8.)  Plaintiff’s blanket challenge to the subpoenas
on privacy grounds fails. 
2.  
Relevance
            As a
threshold issue, Plaintiff indicates in her Reply that there is no dispute as
to payroll records, dates worked, job duties and titles, and reasons for
separation.  (Reply, p. 3:7-13.)  Without stating it, those records are
requested under categories 5, 6, and 9-12. 
Accordingly, the motion is MOOT as the categories 5, 6, and 9-12.  The court reviews the remaining categories.  
Category Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 7
Category No. 1: Application for
employment (or engagement as an independent contractor piece rate work or
assignments, consultant, etc.), resume(s), and interview notes of CASSIDY.
Category No. 2: DOCUMENTS and
correspondence, electronic or otherwise, pertaining to offers of employment or
engagement extended to CASSIDY. 
Category No. 3: DOCUMENTS and
correspondence, electronic or otherwise, sent by CASSIDY in response to offers
of employment (or engagement as an independent contractor, piece rate work or
assignments, consultant, etc.). 
Category No. 4: DOCUMENTS and
correspondence, electronic or otherwise, RELATING to reference checks for
employment (or engagement as an independent contractor) of CASSIDY.
Category No. 7: Performance reviews
and/or evaluations, warnings, and disciplinary notices (electronic, verbal or
written), issued to CASSIDY.
            Defendants
argue these categories are relevant to Plaintiff’s emotional distress claims
and mitigation of damages inquiry.  The
court agrees on both counts.  “[B]y
asserting a causal link between [plaintiff’s] mental distress and defendant’s
conduct, plaintiff implicitly claims that it was not caused by a preexisting
mental condition, thereby raising the question of alternative sources for the
distress[.]”  (Vinson, supra,
43 Cal.3d at p. 842.)  Plaintiff’s
performance reviews and/or evaluations, warnings, and disciplinary notices may
very well show whether Plaintiff’s alleged emotion distress pre-existed her
employment with WB Studio, or generally, whether Plaintiff has a history of
emotional distress.        
As to mitigation of damages, “[t]he
wrongfully terminated employee … can (and must, in order to mitigate damages
[citation]) make reasonable efforts to seek alternative employment.”  (Foley v. Interactive Data Corp. (1988)
47 Cal.3d 654, 692; accord Stanchfield v. Hamer Toyota, Inc. (1995) 37
Cal.App.4th 1495, 1502.)  The mitigation
inquiry is not limited to whether Plaintiff is employed and the amount she
earned, but factors to be considered include the nature of the work, whether
the job is superior/inferior, salary, benefits, hours, the job requirements,
job responsibilities, and the job locality. 
(See CACI No. 3963; Kao v. Univ. of San Francisco (2014) 229
Cal.App.4th 437, 454.)  Consequently,
evidence of mitigation damages is relevant in wrongful termination claims.  (West v. Bechtel Corp. (2002) 96
Cal.App.4th 966, 984-85.)  
Here, the information sought bears directly
upon the nature of the work Plaintiff can obtain, and the responsibilities she
can handle.  The categories are relevant
to the mitigation inquiry.
            Accordingly,
the motion to quash Category Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 7 is DENIED.  
            Category
Nos.  8, 13, and 14
Category No. 8:  DOCUMENTS and correspondence, electronic or
otherwise, concerning discrimination, harassment, or retaliation investigations
conducted, and findings thereof, that reference CASSIDY. 
Category No. 13: Civil,
administrative, and/or internal complaints that reference CASSIDY. 
Category No. 14: All settlement
terms, agreements, and/or memoranda of understanding, whether verbal or
written, that reference CASSIDY, unless subject to a confidentiality agreement.
            Defendants
argue Category Nos. 8, 13, and 14 are relevant to show whether Plaintiff has a
tendency of lodging frivolous internal complaints to overshadow poor job
performance, among other reasons.  “Any
otherwise admissible evidence of habit or custom is admissible to prove conduct
on a specified occasion in conformity with the habit or custom.”  (Evid. Code, § 1105.)  Defendants further argue these categories are
also relevant to the credibility of Plaintiff’s claim, as they seek evidence of
Plaintiff’s stated qualifications in her attempts to obtain employment.  The court agrees.  To the extent these categories (or any
category) seek inadmissible character evidence, the court notes that “admissibility
is not a prerequisite to discovery.”¿ (Volkswagen of Am., Inc. v. Superior
Court (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 1481, 1491.)  Plaintiff cannot resist the subpoenas simply
because purportedly inadmissible information is sought.  
            The motion
to quash Category Nos. 8, 13, and 14 is DENIED.
IV.        CONCLUSION
            
The motion to quash the subpoena is denied.  
 
Defendants to give notice.
 
 
Dated:   May 2, 2024                                   




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
            


