 Case Number:  23STCV09801    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Pacific Western Bank, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case 
No.:
 


 
23STCV09801




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




 
Norman J. Kravetz, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: June 3, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the
alternative, Motion for Summary Adjudication
Moving Party: Plaintiff Pacific Western Bank
Responding Party: Defendants Norman J. Kravetz, Glenda
J. Kravetz and E&O Asset Holdings, LLC
 
T/R:     PLAINTIFFS’
MOTION IS DENIED.
PLAINTIFF TO NOTICE.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing. 
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On May 2, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
complaint against Defendants, asserting causes of action for (1) breach of
promissory note; (2) conspiracy to fraudulently conceal assets; (3) aiding and
abetting fraudulent concealment of assets; (4) voidable transfer; and (5)
declaratory relief. Plaintiff alleges Defendant Norman Kravetz defaulted on a
business loan and fraudulently transferred real commercial property to avoid
repayment of the debt.
 
EVIDENCE
OBJECTIONS
“In granting or denying a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication, the court need rule only on those objections
to evidence that it deems material to its disposition of the motion.” (CCP §
437c(q).) Plaintiffs’ objections to the declaration of Mr. Kravetz are
OVERRULED.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“In moving for summary judgment, a ‘plaintiff
. . . has met’ his ‘burden of showing that there is no defense to a cause of
action if’ he ‘has proved each element of the cause of action entitling’ him
‘to judgment on that cause of action.’” 
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826,
849 (as modified (July 11, 2001).) 
The plaintiff “must present evidence that would require a
reasonable trier of fact to find any underlying material fact more likely than
not—otherwise, he would not be entitled to judgment as a matter of law, but
would have to present his evidence to a trier of fact.”  (Id., at 851, original italics.)
 
Once the plaintiff has met that burden,
the burden shifts to the defendant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.  (CCP § 437c(p)(1).)  “There is a triable issue of material fact
if, and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find
the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance
with the applicable standard of proof.” 
(Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 850.)  The defendant “shall not rely upon
the allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue
of material fact exists but, instead, shall set forth the specific facts
showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause
of action or a defense thereto.”  (CCP §
437c(p)(1).)
 
A. First Cause of Action for Breach of Contract against
Mr. Kravetz
“The standard
elements of a claim for breach of contract are: ‘(1) the contract, (2)
plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach,
and (4) damage to plaintiff therefrom.’” (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New
York Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.)
Plaintiffs
present evidence showing Plaintiffs and Mr. Kravetz executed a loan contract
and Mr. Kravetz defaulted on the loan. In opposition, Defendants present
evidence showing Mr. Kravetz and the Plaintiff bank had a nearly 40-year course
of dealing in which the bank would work with Mr. Kravetz to restructure payment
plans to avoid default and ensure any loans would be repaid before the maturity
date. Defendants assert Plaintiffs went against this course of dealing after
Mr. Kravetz’ long-time banker retired, requiring repayment of the loan at issue
within one year after Mr. Kravetz’ first missed payment. This is sufficient to
establish a triable issue of fact as to the parties’ course of dealing and their
understanding the contract. 
The motion for
summary judgment against Mr. Kravetz is DENIED. The motion for summary
adjudication of the first cause of action is DENIED.
B. Fourth Cause
of Action for Voidable Transfer against Mr. Kravetz, Mrs. Kravetz and E&O 
Civ. Code § 3439.04(a) provides, “[a] transfer made or obligation incurred
by a debtor is voidable as to a creditor, whether the creditor’s claim arose
before or after the transfer was made or the obligation was incurred, if the
debtor made the transfer or incurred the obligation as follows: (1) with actual
intent to hinder, delay or defraud any creditor of the debtor.”
Plaintiffs assert that Defendants fraudulently
transferred certain real property owned by the individual Defendants to an LLC
to avoid repayment of a judgment from another bank. Plaintiffs contend that Mr.
Kravetz also mispresented his ownership interest in the property to obtain the
subject loan from Plaintiffs. In opposition, Defendants represent that there
was no intent to hinder or defraud creditors when this transfer took place. According
to Defendants, there was no practical change in ownership of the property and
Defendants’ practice was to their place property into LLCs. This is sufficient
to create a triable issue of fact as to fraudulent transfer.
The motion for summary adjudication of the claim
for fraudulent transfer is DENIED.


 