 Case Number:  22STCV35760    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles




 
Sajith Weerasinghe, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case 
No.:
 


 
22STCV35760




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




 
Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: June 3, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Enforce Subpoena
Moving Party: Plaintiff Sajith Weerasinghe 
Responding Party: Defendant Cedars-Sinai Medical Center
 
T/R:     PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION TO ENFORCE SUBPOENA IS DENIED.
PLAINTIFF TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing counsel
(or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers, opposition,
and reply.
 
CCP § 1987.1 provides, “[i]f a subpoena
requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents,
electronically stored information, or other things before a court, or at the
trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon
motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the
court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard,
may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing
compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare,
including protective orders.”
 
Plaintiff moves to enforce a subpoena
to bring financial documents to trial in the event the action progresses to punitive
damages. There is no dispute that Plaintiff will be entitled to financial
information for punitive damages. Defendant states that it has agreed to
produce documents showing Defendant’s finances for the last year subject to a
protective order. Defendant asserts that the subpoena as written, however, is
overbroad and should not be enforced. The Court agrees. The subpoena seeks 41
categories of documents, including vehicle leases and fire insurance policies
for the last six years. These are not necessary to determine Defendant’s
current financial condition.
 
Plaintiff’s motion is DENIED.
 
 
 
 