  Case Number:  22STCV28297    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles




 
Marcia Mohler, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case 
No.:
 


 
22STCV28297




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




 
Emerge Capital Management, Inc., et
  al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: June 3, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Compel Deposition of
Defendant Lisa Langley
Moving Party: Plaintiff Marcia Mohler 
Responding Party: Defendants Emerge Capital Management,
Inc. and Lisa Langley
 
T/R:     PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION IS GRANTED. 
DEFENDANT LANGLEY IS ORDERED TO APPEAR FOR DEPOSITION WITHIN 20 DAYS OF
NOTICE OF RULING.
PLAINTIFF’S REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS IS DENIED.
PLAINTIFF TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing counsel
(or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
                
Plaintiff alleges claims for employment
discrimination and failure to accommodate. Plaintiff filed a complaint against
Defendants on August 30, 2022.
ANALYSIS
 
“If,
after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action … without having
served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for
examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.” (CCP § 2025.450, subd. (a).)
Plaintiff
moves to compel the deposition of Defendant Lisa Langley and to set a
deposition schedule for Defendant Emerge’s PMK and certain other
employee-witnesses. Plaintiff has noticed Langley’s deposition several times,
most recently for March 21, 2024. Plaintiff represents that Langley refused to
appear for each deposition, cancelling the March 21, 2024 deposition the day
before. Plaintiff also states that Emerge has refused to produce their PMK and
employee witness, necessitating a deposition schedule ordered by the Court.
As
Langley is a named Defendant in this action, Plaintiff is entitled to take her
deposition. The Court declines to make orders on the deposition schedule for
Defendant Emerge’s PMK and employees, however, given Emerge’s status as an
unrepresented entity. Counsel for Defendants Langley and Emerge were relieved
via motion on April 23, 2024. The Court declines to award sanctions because
Plaintiff has not provided an attorney declaration calculating or justifying
sanctions. 
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel the deposition of Defendant Langley is GRANTED.


 