 Case Number:  22STCV39957    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles




 
Rodolfo Garcia-Rosas, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case 
No.:
 


 
22STCV39957




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




 
Architectural Surfaces, Inc., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: June 3, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
(2) Motions to Quash Service of Summons
Moving Party: Specially Appearing Defendants
Cosentino Group, S.A. 
Responding Party: Plaintiffs Rodolfo Garcia-Rosas and
Alma Delia Llamas
 
T/R:     SPECIALLY APPEARING DEFENDANTS
COSENTINO GROUP, S.A.’S MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS IS GRANTED.
 
COSENTINO TO
NOTICE.  
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing counsel
(or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers, opposition,
reply, and supplemental briefing. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 13, 2023, Plaintiffs Rodolfo
Garcia-Rosas and Alma Delia Llamas filed the operative first amended complaint
against Defendants Architectural Surfaces, Inc., et al., asserting causes of action
for (1) negligence; (2) strict liability – warning defect; (3) strict liability
– design defect; (4) fraudulent concealment; (5) breach of implied warranties;
and (6) loss of consortium. Plaintiff alleges he developed silicosis and
consequential injuries through his employment working with stone products
manufactured, distributed, and/or supplied by Defendants.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“A defendant, on or before the last day of
his or her time to plead or within any further time that the court may for good
cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion for one or more of the
following purposes: (1) To quash service of summons on the ground of lack of
jurisdiction of the court over him or her.”  (CCP §
418.10(a)(1).)  “When a motion to quash is properly brought, the
burden of proof is placed upon the plaintiff to establish the facts of
jurisdiction by a preponderance of the evidence.” (Aquila, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 556, 568.)
A non-resident
defendant may be subject to either general or specific jurisdiction. (See Elkman
v. National States Insurance Co. (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 1305, 1314.)  General jurisdiction exists when a defendant
is domiciled in the forum state or his activities there are substantial,
continuous, and systematic. (F. Hoffman-La Roche, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2005)
130 Cal.App.4th 782, 796.) 
 
Specific
jurisdiction involves a 3-part test in California. California courts adopt the
same test as the test used by the court in Boschetto v. Hansing (9th
Cir. Cal. 2008) 539 F.3d 1011,1016: “ ‘(1) The nonresident defendant must do
some act or consummate some transaction with the forum or perform some act by
which he purposefully avails himself of the privilege of conducting activities
in the forum, thereby invoking the benefits and protections of its laws; (2)
the claim must be one which arises out of or results from the defendant's
forum-related activities; and (3) exercise of jurisdiction must be reasonable.’
Panavision International, L.P. v. Toeppen (9th Cir. 1998) 141 F.3d 1316,
1320 [applying California law].).” (Jewish Defense Organization, Inc. v.
Sup. Ct. of Los Angeles County (Rambam) (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 1045, 1054.)
 
The Court previously found that service on
Cosentino’s Vice President in Canada was proper and that the Court lacks
general personal jurisdiction over Cosentino.  Defendant asserts the Court lacks special
jurisdiction because it is merely a “holding company” that does not make or
distribute the stone products at issue in this action. In the initial opposition,
Plaintiff presented evidence showing Cosentino markets itself as the main
entity that controls all its stone manufacturing and distribution. Plaintiff
requested jurisdictional discovery, which the Court granted. 
In the supplemental opposition, Plaintiff
states the Court should find that service on Cosentino was proper because the
Court of Appeal in other similar cases has found that the same service on
Cosentino’s Vice President in Canada was proper. Plaintiff makes no arguments
related to Cosentino’s contacts in California or specific personal
jurisdiction. In the supplemental reply, Cosentino again asserts that it is
merely a holding company and argues Plaintiff has failed to establish
jurisdiction by not addressing any of the jurisdictional discovery that occurred
during the continuance. 
As noted, the Court already has found that
service was proper. The Court continued the motion to allow for discovery into
facts that could show specific personal jurisdiction over Cosentino. Following
this discovery, Plaintiff has made no new arguments related to specific
personal jurisdiction. Plaintiff has failed to meet the burden to establish
jurisdiction. 
Cosentino’s motion to quash is GRANTED.


 