 Case Number:  24STCV02578    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles




 
Danny J. Torrez II, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case 
No.:
 


 
24STCV02578




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




 
AIDS Healthcare Foundation,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: June 3, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Demurrer to Complaint and Motion to
Strike
Moving Party: Defendant AIDS Healthcare Foundation
Responding Party: Plaintiff Danny J. Torrez II
 
T/R:     DEFENDANT’S
DEMURRER IS OVERRULED.
THE MOTION TO STRIKE IS DENIED.
DEFENDANT TO FILE AND SERVE AN ANSWER
TO THE COMPLAINT WITHIN 30 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING. 
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing counsel
(or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On January 31, 2024, Plaintiff Danny J.
Torrez II sued Defendant AIDS Healthcare Foundation, asserting causes of action
for (1) violation of Civil Code § 1941.1; (2) violation of Civil Code §
17920.3; (3) violation of Civil Code § 1942.4; (4) negligence; (5) nuisance;
(6) IIED; (7) breach of contract; (8) UCL violations; and (9) fraudulent
concealment.
 
This is a landlord tenant action.
Tenant Plaintiff alleges Landlord Defendant concealed a bedbug infestation to
induce Plaintiff to rent from Defendant. Plaintiff alleges the infestation was
apparent within the first month of Plaintiff’s tenancy. Plaintiff alleges
Defendant refused to remediate the infestation after being notified, causing
severe emotional and physical distress.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken
to the whole complaint or to any of the causes of action in it.  (CCP § 430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only the legal
sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual allegations or the
plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations. 
(Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.
App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court must treat
as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law. 
(Id. at 732-33.)  The
complaint is to be construed liberally to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
A. First and Second Causes of Action for Breach of the
Warranty of Habitability under Civil Code § 1941.1 and Health & Safety Code
§ 7920.3 
Defendant demurs to the first, second and
third causes of action on the ground that Civil Code §§ 1941.1 and Health &
Safety Code § 7920.3 do not provide a private right of action. Defendant
asserts that these statutes merely list conditions that make a dwelling
uninhabitable. As stated in the complaint and the opposition to the demurrer,
the first and second causes of action are for breach of the warranty of
habitability. Plaintiff alleges Defendant breached the warranty by allowing the
conditions listed in Civil Code §§ 1941.1 and Health & Safety Code §
7920.3. Plaintiff alleges Defendants knew of, concealed, and failed to remedy a
bed bug infestation. Plaintiff has stated causes of action for breach of the
warranty of habitability. 
The demurrer to the first and second causes
of action is OVERRULED.
B. Third Cause of Action for Violation of Civil Code §
1942.4
Defendant asserts the third cause of action
fails because Plaintiff does not allege that the premises failed an inspection
while Plaintiff was a tenant. Plaintiff alleges Defendants failed an inspection
in 2021 and failed to remedy the infestation. There is no requirement under
this statute that the inspection takes place during Plaintiff’s tenancy. 
The demurrer to the third cause of action is
OVERRULED.
C. Fifth Cause of Action for Nuisance
Defendant demurs to the fifth cause of action
on the ground that it is duplicative of the fourth cause of action for
negligence. The Court declines to sustain the demurrer on this basis. Plaintiff
may allege alternative theories of liability under the same the facts as other
causes of action. 
The demurrer to the fifth cause of action is
OVERRULED.
D. Sixth Cause of Action for IIED
Defendant asserts the sixth cause of action
for IIED fails because Plaintiff cannot allege extreme and outrageous conduct.
Defendant argues that there is no extreme and outrageous conduct because the
lease disclosed that bedbugs had previously been found in the building and that
remediation efforts were ongoing. (Compl. Exh. A.) Plaintiff alleges Defendant
represented that there were no bedbugs in Plaintiff’s unit and then failed to
remediate the issue after notification from Plaintiff causing extreme emotional
and physical distress. A reasonable jury could find this conduct extreme and
outrageous.
The demurrer to the sixth cause of action is
OVERRULED.
E. Ninth Cause of Action for Fraudulent Concealment
Defendant demurs to the ninth cause of action
on the ground that Plaintiff has failed to allege a duty to disclose. Fraud by
omission and fraud by concealment require allegations demonstrating the
defendant was under a legal duty to disclose the allegedly omitted or concealed
facts. (See Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum Commission v. Insomniac, Inc.
(2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 803, 831.) Nondisclosure or concealment may constitute
actionable fraud when: (1) there is a fiduciary relationship between the
parties; (2) the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known
to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the
plaintiff; and (4) the defendant makes partial representations but also
suppresses some material facts. (See id.)
Plaintiff alleges Defendant concealed the
existence of bedbugs in Plaintiff’s unit. Under the above factors, the
allegations show Defendant had exclusive knowledge, made partial
representations in the lease, and actively concealed material facts. This is
sufficient to state a cause of action for fraudulent concealment. 
The demurrer to the ninth cause of action is
OVERRULED.
F. Motion to Strike
Defendant moves to strike Plaintiff’s prayers
for punitive damages and attorney’s fees. As Plaintiff has stated claims for
fraud and IIED, Plaintiff has alleged entitlement to punitive damages. The
Court declines to strike the request for attorney’s fees at the pleading stage.
Whether Plaintiff is entitled to fees is not dependent on the prayer in the
complaint. 
The motion to strike is DENIED.


 