 Case Number:  20STCV27425    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On July
21, 2020, Plaintiff Derrell Hochstein filed this
action against Defendants Marirose Flores,
Jonathan Aguilar, and Does 1-100 for negligence and negligence per se. 
On
July 22, 2020, Plaintiffs Derrell
Hochstein (“Derrell Hochstein”) and Rachel Hochstein (“Rachel Hochstein”) filed
a first amended complaint against Defendants
Marirose Flores ("Flores"), Jonathan Aguilar, and Does 1-100 for negligence, negligence
per se, and loss of consortium. 
On
February 8, 2023, Defendant Jonathan Morgan Aguilar,
erroneously sued and served as Jonathan Aguilar (“Aguilar”), filed an
answer.  On March 7, 2023, Flores filed
an answer. 
On
October 13, 2023, Aguilar filed motions (1) to compel Derrell Hochstein’s
responses to special interrogatories, set one, and for sanctions, (2) to compel
Rachel Hochstein’s responses to special interrogatories, set one, and for
sanctions, (3) to compel Derrell Hochstein’s responses to form interrogatories,
set one, and for sanctions, and (4) to compel Rachel Hochstein’s responses to
form interrogatories, set one, and for sanctions.  The motions were set for hearing on January 25,
2024.  Derrell Hochstein and Rachel
Hochstein have not filed oppositions. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for March 4, 2024. 
PARTY’S REQUESTS 
Aguilar
requests that the Court order Derrell Hochstein and Rachel Hochstein to serve verified
code-compliant responses to special interrogatories, set one, and form
interrogatories, set one, without objections. 
Aguilar also requests that the Court impose sanctions. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2030.290 provides: 
“If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails
to serve a timely response, the following rules apply: 
“(a) The party to whom the interrogatories are
directed waives any right to exercise the option to produce writings under
Section 2030.230, as well as any objection to the interrogatories, including
one based on privilege or on the protection for work product under Chapter 4
(commencing with Section 2018.010). The court, on motion, may relieve that
party from this waiver on its determination that both of the following
conditions are satisfied: 
“(1) The party has subsequently served a response that
is in substantial compliance with Sections 2030.210, 2030.220, 2030.230, and
2030.240. 
“(2) The party’s failure to serve a timely response
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
“(b) The party propounding the interrogatories may
move for an order compelling response to the interrogatories. 
“(c) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust. If a party then fails to obey an order compelling
answers, the court may make those orders that are just, including the imposition
of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in addition to that
sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010).” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.290.) 
DISCUSSION 
On
February 20, 2023, Aguilar served special interrogatories, set one, and form
interrogatories, set one, on Derrell Hochstein and Rachel Hochstein. 
Responses
were due March 24, 2023.  Derrell
Hochstein and Rachel Hochstein did not provide timely responses and had not
provided responses by the time Aguilar filed these motions. 
The
Court grants the motions and orders Derrell Hochstein and Rachel Hochstein to
provide verified code-compliant responses to the special interrogatories and
form interrogatories without objections by February 23, 2024. 
The
Court denies Aguilar’s requests for sanctions on the motions to compel
responses to the special and form interrogatories.  Sanctions for these motions are available only
when a party unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS Defendant Jonathan Morgan Aguilar’s
motion to compel Plaintiff Derrell Hochstein’s responses to special interrogatories,
set one, and orders Plaintiff
Derrell Hochstein to provide verified, code-compliant responses to the special
interrogatories without objections by February 23, 2024. 
The Court
GRANTS Defendant Jonathan Morgan Aguilar’s motion to compel Plaintiff Rachel
Hochstein’s responses to special interrogatories, set one, and orders Plaintiff
Rachel Hochstein to provide verified, code-compliant responses to the special
interrogatories without objections by February 23, 2024. 
The Court GRANTS Defendant Jonathan Morgan Aguilar’s
motion to compel Plaintiff Derrell Hochstein’s responses to form
interrogatories, set one, and orders Plaintiff Derrell Hochstein to provide
verified, code-compliant responses to the form interrogatories without
objections by February 23, 2024. 
The Court GRANTS Defendant Jonathan Morgan Aguilar’s
motion to compel Plaintiff Rachel Hochstein’s responses to form
interrogatories, set one, and orders Plaintiff Rachel Hochstein to provide
verified, code-compliant responses to the form interrogatories without
objections by February 23, 2024. 
The Court DENIES Defendant Jonathan Morgan Aguilar’s
requests for sanctions. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.