 Case Number:  20STCV48398    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows.  
BACKGROUND 
On
December 18, 2020, Plaintiff Francisco Perez Sanchez (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Defendants Kuldeep Shukla (“Shukla”), Lyft, Inc. (“Lyft”), and
Does 1-50 for negligence, negligent hiring, training, and supervision, and
strict products liability. 
On
March 29, 2021, Lyft filed an answer. On May 7, 2021, Shukla filed an answer. 
On
December 28, 2023, Lyft filed a motion for judgment on the pleadings on
Plaintiff’s third cause of action for strict products liability, to be heard on
January 25, 2024.  On January 12, 2024,
Plaintiff filed an opposition and request for judicial notice.  On January 18, 2024, Lyft filed a reply.  (The Court exercises its discretion to consider late filings.)
Trial
is currently scheduled for March 18, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Lyft
requests that the Court grant judgment on the pleadings on Plaintiff’s third
cause of action for strict products liability without leave to amend. 
Plaintiff
requests that the Court grant leave to amend the claim. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 438 provides in part: 
“(a) As used in this section: 
“(1) “Complaint” includes a cross-complaint. 
“(2) “Plaintiff” includes a cross-complainant. 
“(3) “Defendant” includes a cross-defendant. 
“(b) (1) A party may move for judgment on the
pleadings. 
* * *
 “(c) (1) The motion provided for in this section may
only be made on one of the following grounds: 
* * *
 “(B) If the moving party is a defendant, that either
of the following conditions exist: 
“(i) The court has no jurisdiction of the subject of
the cause of action alleged in the complaint. 
“(ii) The complaint does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action against that defendant. 
“(2) The motion provided for in this section may be made
as to either of the following: 
“(A) The entire complaint or cross-complaint or as to
any of the causes of action stated therein. 
* * *
 “(d) The grounds for motion provided for in this
section shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter
of which the court is required to take judicial notice. Where the motion is
based on a matter of which the court may take judicial notice pursuant to
Section 452 or 453 of the Evidence Code, the matter shall be specified in the
notice of motion, or in the supporting points and authorities, except as the
court may otherwise permit. 
* * *
 “(h) (1) The motion provided for in this section may
be granted with or without leave to file an amended complaint or answer, as the
case may be. 
“(2) Where a motion is granted pursuant to this
section with leave to file an amended complaint or answer, as the case may be,
then the court shall grant 30 days to the party against whom the motion was
granted to file an amended complaint or answer, as the case may be. . . .” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 438, subds. (a), (b), (c), (d), (h)(1), (h)(2).) 
          ‘‘A motion for judgment on the pleadings performs the same
function as a general demurrer, and [thus] attacks only defects disclosed on
the face of the pleadings or by matters that can be judicially noticed. [Citations.]’
[Citation.]’ [Citation.]” (Pointe San Diego Residential Community, L.P. v.
Procopio, Cory, Hargreaves & Savitch, LLP (2011) 195 Cal.App.4th
265, 274.) “In reviewing the motion, [the Court] deem[s] true all properly
pleaded material facts, but not contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact
or law, and [the court] may also consider judicially noticed matters.
[Citation.]” (Bear Creek Master Assn. v. Southern California Investors, Inc. (2018)
28 Cal.App.5th 809, 817.)  
A
motion for judgment on the pleadings “normally lies only for defects fully
disclosed on the face of the pleading under attack or by matters of which
judicial notice may be taken. 
Declarations or other extrinsic matters are improper.  Therefore, the judge hearing the motion
cannot consider discovery admissions or other evidence controverting the
pleadings.  Rather, the pleading under attack must be accepted as true.”  (L. Edmon and C. Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide:
Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 7:320, pp. 7(l)-95 to 7(l)-96.) 
PLAINTIFF’S REQUEST FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE 
The
Court grants Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subds. (a), (c), (d).) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Complaint 
The complaint
alleges the following: 
On
December 24, 2018, Lyft driver Shukla’s vehicle, in which Plaintiff was a passenger,
collided with yellow attenuator barrels on the side of the Harbor freeway,
injuring Plaintiff.  Shukla was using the
Lyft app, a computer-based technology platform which matches drivers with
passengers in real time.  
Lyft
required Shukla to use the Lyft app.  However,
Lyft knew or should have known that its drivers’ use of the Lyft app “would
require use in such a manner as to violate one and/or more provisions of the
California Vehicle Code and create a significant risk of harm of the type suffered
by the Plaintiff in this action.”  (Complaint ¶ 32.) 
Specifically, “[t]he LYFT APP is defective in its design as it requires
a driver, such as Defendant, KULDEEP SHUKLA, to engage in distracted driving
including but not limited to conduct that requires the driver to constantly
monitor the LYFT APP and its associated hardware for incoming messages, to
respond and communicate through the LYFT APP and its attendant hardware in such
a manner which constitutes instant messaging and/or text messaging and/or
distracted driving and/or which causes the driver to redirect their attention
from the roadway.” (Complaint ¶ 33.)   
In addition,
“the location of the LYFT APP within the vehicle, as directed and instructed by
Defendants, LYFT, INC. and/or Does 31-40, so as to monitor and interface with
it, creates a visual block which limits and restricts visibility of the driver
creating a danger to those who are outside the vehicle.”  (Complaint ¶ 34.)  
“The
LYFT APP failed to perform as safely as the ordinary consumer would expect, or
have a right to expect, when using the product in an intended or reasonably
foreseeable manner.” (Complaint ¶ 35.)  The
risk of injury, damage, harm, and death inherent in the Lyft app’s design
outweighed the benefits of the design. (Complaint
¶ 36.) 
The
defective product was a proximate cause of Plaintiff’s injury. 
B.   Analysis 
A
defendant “may be held strictly liable for its product if the plaintiff was
injured while using the product in a reasonably foreseeable way. In order for
there to be strict liability, the product does not have to be unreasonably
dangerous—just defective. Products liability may be premised upon a theory of
design defect, manufacturing defect, or failure to warn.” (Romine v. Johnson
Controls, Inc. (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 990, 1000, internal quotations and
citations omitted.) “Whether or not a product was defectively designed or
manufactured is a factual issue to be determined by the trier of fact. However,
whether or not the subject object or instrumentality is a ‘product’ is a
question of law for the trial court[.]” (Brooks v. Eugene Burger Management
Corp. (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 1611.) 
Lyft
assert that the Lyft app is not a “product” because Lyft is a service provider
and the Lyft app is incidental to the provision of Lyft’s services:
facilitating rideshares. The Court agrees. As the Court of Appeal has
explained: 
“The
doctrine of strict liability in tort applies to producing and marketing
enterprises responsible for placing products in the stream of commerce. Where
purchase of a product is the primary objective or essence of the transaction,
strict liability applies even to those who are mere conduits in distributing
the product to the consumer. Courts have not extended the doctrine of strict
liability to transactions whose primary objective is obtaining services. Courts
have also declined to apply strict liability where the transaction’s service
aspect predominates and any product sale is merely incidental to the provision
of the service.” 
(Pierson v. Sharp Memorial
Hospital, Inc. (1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 340, 344, internal citations omitted.) 
Here,
the complaint alleges that Lyft required its driver Shukla to use the Lyft app
to locate passengers who require transportation from one location to another.  In other words, the Lyft app enables people to obtain and provide transportation services.  The Court therefore concludes, as a matter of
law, that the Lyft app is not a “product” for purposes of Plaintiff’s claim for
strict products liability.  The Court grants
the motion for judgment on the pleadings. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant Lyft, Inc.’s motion for judgment
on the pleadings on Plaintiff Francisco Perez Sanchez’s third cause of action
for strict products liability with 30 days leave to amend. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.