 Case Number:  21STCV39861    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposing and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
October 29, 2021, Plaintiff Daniel Reygosa (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Charlesetta Grant (“Grant”), City of Santa Monica (“City”),
City of Santa Monica Big Blue Bus, and Does 1-20 for motor vehicle tort,
general negligence, and negligence of government entity (Gov. Code, §§ 815.2,
subd. (a), 820, subd. (a)). 
On
September 15, 2022, the City filed an answer. 
On
November 15, 2023, Grant filed an answer. 
On
December 27, 2023, the City filed a motion to compel Plaintiff’s mental
examination to be heard on January 25, 2024.  On January 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition. On January 18, 2024, the City filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for April 15, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
The
City requests that the Court order Plaintiff to appear for a mental examination
by David M. Lechuga, a board-certified clinical neuropsychologist, on February
8, 2024, at 7:45 a.m. at 13 Orchard Road, Suite 103, Lake Forest, CA 92630. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2032.020 provides in part: 
“(a) Any party may obtain discovery, subject to the
restrictions set forth in Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 2019.010), by
means of a physical or mental examination of (1) a party to the action, (2) an
agent of any party, or (3) a natural person in the custody or under the legal
control of a party, in any action in which the mental or physical condition
(including the blood group) of that party or other person is in controversy in
the action. 
* * *
“(c) (1) A mental examination conducted under this
chapter shall be performed only by a licensed physician, or by a licensed
clinical psychologist who holds a doctoral degree in psychology and has had at
least five years of postgraduate experience in the diagnosis of emotional and
mental disorders. . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.020,
subds. (a), (c)(1).) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2032.310 provides: 
“(a) If any party desires to obtain discovery by a
physical examination other than that described in Article 2 (commencing with
Section 2032.210), or by a mental examination, the party shall obtain leave of
court. 
“(b) A motion for an examination under subdivision (a)
shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person
or persons who will perform the examination. The motion shall be accompanied by
a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(c) Notice of the motion shall be served on the
person to be examined and on all parties who have appeared in the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.310.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2032.320 provides: 
“(a) The court shall grant a motion for a physical or
mental examination under Section 2032.310 only for good cause shown. 
“(b) If a party stipulates as provided in subdivision
(c), the court shall not order a mental examination of a person for whose
personal injuries a recovery is being sought except on a showing of exceptional
circumstances. 
“(c) A stipulation by a party under this subdivision
shall include both of the following: 
“(1) A stipulation that no claim is being made for
mental and emotional distress over and above that usually associated with the
physical injuries claimed. 
“(2) A stipulation that no expert testimony regarding
this usual mental and emotional distress will be presented at trial in support
of the claim for damages. 
“(d) An order granting a physical or mental
examination shall specify the person or persons who may perform the
examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests and
procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination. 
“(e) If the place of the examination is more than 75
miles from the residence of the person to be examined, an order to submit to it
shall be entered only if both of the following conditions are satisfied: 
“(1) The court determines that there is good cause for
the travel involved. 
“(2) The order is conditioned on the advancement by
the moving party of the reasonable expenses and costs to the examinee for
travel to the place of examination.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.320.)
DISCUSSION 
Asserting
Plaintiff’s mental condition is in controversy, the City asks the Court to
compel Plaintiff to attend a mental examination with a neuropsychologist. The
City argues that a neuropsychological evaluation is the City’s “only means to
counter plaintiff’s assertions that present cognitive impairments are due to
the incident of March 2021[.]”  (Motion
p. 5.) 
In his
opposition, Plaintiff states that “[he] is not putting at issue or controversy
any mental, cognitive, or emotional claim beyond the garden variety emotional
distress accompanying his physical injuries” and he will not present expert
testimony related to mental and emotional distress at trial.  (Opposition pp. 3-4.)  Plaintiff argues that he has stipulated to
these points under Code of Civil Procedure section
2032.320, subdivision (c), and therefore the Court may not order a mental
examination absent exceptional circumstances, which do not exist here. (See Declaration of Gregory B. Selarz.) 
In
its reply, the City argues that it “seeks a neuropsychological examination to
test the credibility of and defend against plaintiff’s claims of concussion and
brain injury, claims which plaintiff has made and continues to make throughout
discovery.”  (Reply p. 1.)  The City also denies that Plaintiff has provided
a stipulation for purposes of Code of Civil Procedure
section 2032.320, subdivision (c), because a stipulation requires both
sides to agree. 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2032.320, subdivision (c), contemplates a
stipulation by one party only: “A stipulation by a party under this
subdivision shall include both of the following: [¶]
(1) A stipulation that no claim is being made for mental and emotional distress
over and above that usually associated with the physical injuries claimed. [¶] (2)
A stipulation that no expert testimony regarding this usual mental and
emotional distress will be presented at trial in support of the claim for
damages.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.320, subd. (c), emphasis added.)  Nothing
in the statutory language requires or invites the opposing party to participate
in the stipulation.  Indeed, construing
the statute to require a plaintiff to obtain a defendant’s agreement to a
stipulation would allow the defendant to block the plaintiff’s use of this statutory
procedure.  The Legislature does not
appear to have intended such a result. 
Based
on Plaintiff’s opposition to the City's motion, the Court finds that Plaintiff has stipulated that (1)
he is not making a claim for mental and emotional distress over and above that
usually associated with the physical injuries he claims and (2) he will not
present expert testimony at trial regarding this usual mental and emotional
distress in support of his claim for damages. 
This stipulation satisfies the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure
section 2032.320, subdivisions (b) and (c). 
No
exceptional circumstances exist which would support a decision to order a
mental examination despite Plaintiff’s stipulation.  Therefore, the Court denies the City’s motion
to compel Plaintiff to attend a mental examination. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd. (b).) 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES Defendant City of Santa Monica’s motion to compel Plaintiff Daniel
Reygosa’s attendance at a mental examination conducted by a neuropsychologist. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.