 Case Number:  23STCV09309    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
AMERICAN BUILDERS & CONTRACTORS
  SUPPLY CO., INC.,
                        
                         Plaintiff,
            v.
 
ENERGY ROOFING, INC.,
  et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV09309
  Hearing Date:  March 15, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant nadav marciano’s demurrer to
  complaint




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On April 26, 2023, Plaintiff
American Builders & Contractors Supply Co., Inc. filed this action against
Defendants Energy Roofing, Inc., Nadav Marciano, and Arturo Suarez. The
complaint asserts causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2) open book
account, and (3) account stated. The action arises from Defendants’ alleged
failure to pay for construction materials provided by Plaintiff. 
            On January 19, 2024, Defendant
Marciano filed the instant demurrer to the complaint. Plaintiff filed its
opposition on March 4, 2024. Defendant filed his reply on March 11, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether a
pleading states a cause of action or defense. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd.
(a).) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior
Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the pleading, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action or defense. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.)
The Court notes that Defendant has complied with the meet and confer
requirement. (See Chemerinski Decl.)
DISCUSSION
“The alter ego doctrine arises when a plaintiff
comes into court claiming that an opposing party is using the corporate form
unjustly and in derogation of the plaintiff's interests . . . In certain
circumstances the court will disregard the corporate entity and will hold the
individual shareholders liable for the actions of the corporation.” (Greenspan
v. LADT LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 486, 510.) Establishing alter ego “generally
requires the proponent to demonstrate two elements: (1) a unity of interest and
ownership such that the separate personalities of the corporation and the
individual do not exist; and (2) an inequitable result if the corporate
identity is not disregarded.” (JPV I L.P. v. Koetting (2023) 88
Cal.App.5th 172, 189.) 
In Rutherford Holdings, LLC v. Plaza
Del Rey (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 221, 235-36, the court of appeal held that
the following alter ego allegations were sufficient to survive a demurrer: that
the individual defendant dominated and controlled the entity defendant; that a
unity of interest and ownership existed between the individual defendant and
entity defendant; that the entity defendant was a mere shell and conduit for
the individual defendant’s affairs; that the entity defendant was inadequately
capitalized; that the entity defendant failed to abide by corporate
formalities; that the individual defendant used the entity defendant’s assets
as her own; and that recognizing the separate existence of the entity defendant
would promote injustice.
Defendant Marciano argues that the
complaint fails to state any cause of action against him because Plaintiff
contracted with Defendant Energy Roofing, and there are no facts establishing
that Marciano is the alter ego of Energy Roofing. Marciano is the principal of
Energy Roofing. Plaintiff alleges that Marciano is the alter ego of Energy
Roofing for the following reasons: unity of interest; commingling assets;
inadequate capitalization; sole control; lack of formalities; and formed for a
fraudulent purpose. (Compl. ¶ 7.) These allegations parallel the ones found
sufficient in Rutherford Holdings, and they go beyond the bare allegations
found insufficient in Leek v. Cooper (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 399. They
are ultimate facts that place Defendant on sufficient notice of the claims
against him for pleading purposes. The specific evidentiary facts proving alter
ego should be left for discovery. 
Defendant also argues that Plaintiff fails
to plead the second element of alter ego, that injustice would result from
treating the entity as separate. However, the complaint alleges that “adherence
to the fiction of the separate existence of MARCIANO and ENERGY ROOFING would,
under the circumstances alleged, sanction a fraud or promote injustice.”
(Compl. ¶ 7(g).) This is also an allegation of ultimate fact sufficient for pleading
purposes, as acknowledged in Rutherford Holdings, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th
at p. 235. Additionally, when the complaint is read as a whole and interpreted
liberally, it may be reasonably inferred that treating Marciano and Energy
Roofing separately would result in injustice. Therefore, the complaint satisfies
both elements of alter ego.  
Lastly, Defendant Marciano argues that the
complaint is uncertain because Plaintiff alleges that both Marciano and Suarez
are alter egos of Energy Roofing. (See Compl. ¶¶ 7, 9.) Defendant provides no
legal authority suggesting that identifying multiple alter egos is improper or
renders a complaint uncertain. (See Gherman v. Colburn (1977) 72
Cal.App.3d 544, 565 [“A plaintiff may plead cumulative or inconsistent causes
of action”].) Defendant Marciano is on sufficient notice of the alter ego
allegations against him even if Plaintiff alleges that Suarez is also an alter
ego of Energy Roofing.  
In sum, the complaint alleges sufficient
ultimate facts demonstrating that Defendant Marciano is the alter ego of
Defendant Energy Roofing. Therefore, the complaint adequately pleads claims
against Defendant Marciano to survive demurrer. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant Nadav Marciano’s demurrer
is OVERRULED.
 