 Case Number:  23STCV17990    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
KRYSTAL LATOYA
  MONTGOMERY, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
GEORGE MARCOS, et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV17990
  Hearing Date:  March 15, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiffs’ motion for trial preference 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On July 31, 2023, Plaintiffs Krystal
Latoya Montgomery, Jeremiah Daquan Montgomery, Anterrika DeShante Willis, and
Kristina Lashay Simpson, individually and as guardians at litem for
various minors, filed this action against Defendants George Morcos and Mervat
Morcos. The complaint alleges (1) breach of the implied warranty of
habitability, (2) negligence, (3) nuisance, and (4) violation of Civil Code
section 1942.4.  
            On February 6, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed the instant motion for trial preference. The Court made a ruling on March
4, 2024, which it subsequently vacated. The hearing was reset for March 15,
2024.  
LEGAL STANDARD
“A civil action to recover damages for
wrongful death or personal injury shall be entitled to preference upon the
motion of any party to the action who is under 14 years of age unless the court
finds that the party does not have a substantial interest in the case as a
whole.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 36(b).) The statute makes preference mandatory as
long as the conditions are met, regardless of prejudice. (See Swaithes v.
Superior Court (1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 1082, 1085 [“The trial court has no power
to balance the differing interests of opposing litigants in applying the
provision”].)
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiffs move for a trial
preference based on the minors Tyler Sincere Montgomery, Karter Darnell
Montgomery, Bre’miah Lejcey Montgomery, and Kai’lah Dezarae Williams. It is
undisputed that these plaintiffs are minors are under 14. The issue is whether
the minors have a substantial interest in the case as a whole. 
The statute does not define “substantial
interest,” nor is there caselaw imposing a definition. Here, the interest of
the minor plaintiffs is tangential compared to the adult plaintiffs, who are
the primary litigants. The numerical proportion of minors to adults is not dispositive.
The evidence will primarily concern and come from the adult plaintiffs. The
adults would have suffered the majority of damages because they would have been
the ones who paid the rent and medical expenses. Therefore, the Court finds
that the minors do not have a substantial interest in the case as a whole.   
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiffs’ motion for trial
preference is DENIED. 