 Case Number:  23PSCV02558    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
Defendant Yihang Duan’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 
Background
This
is a contracts case. Plaintiff CHENSHUO FAMILY OFFICE CORP alleges the following against Defendants CCR
AUTO FINANCING LLC (“CCR”), RUI YU (“R. Yu”), YIHANG DUAN (“Duan”), and JIAN YU
(“J. Yu”) (collectively, “Defendants”)[1]:
Since September of 2023, Plaintiff and Defendants entered into an oral
agreement to enter business relationship to operate a rental car business. Plaintiff
provided the initial funding to purchase the vehicles. On or about December 1,
2022, Defendants stopped all profit distributions. (P19.) Despite demands that
Defendants return “Plaintiff’s vehicle” (P20) and provide immediate accounting,
Defendants refuse to do so.
On August 22, 2023, Plaintiff
filed suit for the following causes of action (COAs):
1.     Breach of Contract
2.     Conversion
3.     Breach of Fiduciary Duty
4.     Fraud
On October 6, 2023, the court
granted Plaintiff’s writ of possession (for the vehicles). 
On October 23, 2023, moving
Defendant (Duan) filed three motions: MOTION FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE, [2]MOTION
TO DISQUALIFY COUNSEL (Robert Hsu as attorney of record for Plaintiff Chenshuo
Family Office Corp.); and the instant demurrer. 
Discussion[3]
 
This demurrer
is based upon the following grounds: 1. The attorney who initiated the lawsuit
did so without the proper authorization from the named Plaintiff. A complaint
filed by some other entity other than the real party in interest in subject to
demurrer. 2. The Complaint is uncertain because it is both ambiguous and
unintelligible. (Demurrer pp. 1-2.)
 
The court SUSTAINS the demurrer on both grounds. 
 
A.    The person who filed the Complaint
does not have the legal capacity to sue
 
As noted in the Statement of Information filed with Secretary of State
on September 7, 2023, Defendant Duan was the only officer and director of the
Plaintiff Chenshuo Family Office Corp. The matter is capable of judicial notice
as the official records of the California Secretary of State, an executive
department of the State of California, would qualify as “official act” of the
executive department of the State of California. (See Rodas v. Spiegel
(2001) 87 Cal. App. 4th 513, 518; Evidence Code §451(c).) 
 
As the only officer or director of the Plaintiff
corporation, then Defendant is seemingly the only one with capacity to sue on
behalf of Plaintiff. (Demurrer p. 4, Del Mar Beach Club Owners Assn v.
Imperial Contracting Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 898, 906.) According to CCP section 367, “every action must be prosecuted in
the name of the real party in interest.” The person possessing the right sued
upon by reason of the substantive law is the real party in interest. (3 Witkin,
Cal. Procedure (2d ed.), Pleading, s 93.) Again, Defendant is the person with the right to
sue (i.e., Defendant has standing). 
 
What adds more confusion is that the complaint’s signature line states
it is filed on behalf of “Belong Inc.” (Complaint p. 7 of 14 of PDF.) 
 
Therefore, as it is uncertain as to who the real party in interest is,
the court SUSTAINS the demurrer. 
 
B.    The complaint is
uncertain. It is ambiguous and unintelligible
 
As noted by Defendant and observed by the court, there are numerous ways
in which the complaint is uncertain. For example, the complaint alleges that: 
 
-       
Defendant Huang agreed to provide rental services (¶16),
but Defendant Huang is not a named defendant. 
-       
The complaint alleges that since September of 2023,
Plaintiff and Defendants entered into an oral agreement to enter business
relationship to operate a rental car business. (¶15.)  But the complaint was filed before in
August 2023. 
 
All in all,
both the facts and identity of the parties are unclear. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the
foregoing, the demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 


