  Case Number:  22AHCV00029    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



XIAO FAN PENG, et al.,
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
YUN
   XIANG TSENG, et al., 
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22AHCV00029
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTIONS TO COMPEL DEPOSITIONS OF DEFENDANTS YUN
   XIANG TSENG AND KRISTINE A. NALDJIAN
 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
October
   9, 2024



 
On January 18, 2022, Fan Peng (“Peng”)
filed this action against Yun Xiang Tseng (“Tseng”), Zhao Cesarone, Anna Grace,
Kristine A. Naldjian (“Naldjian”), Dao House, LLC, and WDA, LLC for breach of
contract, intentional and negligent misrepresentation, false advertising,
conversion, unjust enrichment, intentional infliction of emotional distress,
“purchase money resulting trust”, and “alter ego.” Peng filed an amended
complaint (“FAC”) on January 31, 2022, which added Childwise International
Corporation as a defendant. On March 30, 2022, Tseng filed a cross-complaint
for breach of contract against Peng. Then, Peng filed the Second Amended
Complaint (“SAC”) on July 19, 2022, which added Zhou Sail Electronic Co., Ltd. (“Sail
Electronic”) as a plaintiff. 
On May 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed these
two motions for orders compelling Tseng and Naldjian to appear for their
depositions. Plaintiff also request sanctions against Tseng and Naldjian in the
amount of $3,067.26 each. 
Any party may obtain discovery, subject
to restrictions, by taking the oral deposition of any person, including any
party to the action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) A properly served
deposition notice is effective to require a party or party-affiliated deponent
to attend and to testify, as well as to produce documents for inspection and
copying. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280, subd. (a).) “If, after service of a
deposition notice, a party . . . without having served a valid objection . . .
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party
giving notice may move for an order compelling deponent’s attendance and
testimony, and the production . . . of any document . . . described in the
deposition notice.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (a).)
Plaintiff’s moving papers attach nearly
80 pages of email correspondence between Plaintiff’s counsel and counsel for
Tseng and Naldjian from March 2023 to March 2024, evidencing attempts to
schedule their depositions. The emails also show that before filing these
motions, Plaintiff’s counsel inquired about Tseng and Naldjian’s availability
in April 2024, but did not receive any reply. (Motion, Ex. O.) 
However, the Court notes that Plaintiff
did not include any deposition notice (either the initial or any amended
notices) for Tseng or Naldjian. Therefore, the threshold requirement that a
deposition notice was actually served has not been established. The Court also
notes that Plaintiff’s counsel provides no explanation for why the requested
sanctions are reasonable. Accordingly, the motions are denied without
prejudice. 
VI.    CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motions are DENIED
without prejudice.
Moving party to give notice.  
 
Dated
this 9th
day of October
2024 
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 