 Case Number:  23AHCV01476    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



JOCELYN LOPEZ, 
                    Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
ARCADIA
  LIVING, LLC,
 
                    Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV01476
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO QUASH SUBPOENA FOR EMPLOYMENT RECORDS 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
October
  9, 2024



On
June 27, 2023, plaintiff Jocelyn Lopez (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
her former employer, defendant Arcadia Living, LLC (“Defendant”). Plaintiff
alleges that she was employed as an Office Manager for Defendant and began
working for Defendant on or about July 16, 2016. (Compl., ¶¶ 6-7.) Plaintiff
alleges that she was a non-exempt employee and that Defendant failed to: (1)
pay overtime compensation, (2) pay minimum wage, (3) provide meal periods, (4)
provide rest breaks, and (5) issue accurate and itemized wage statements.
Plaintiff also asserts a claim for violation of Labor Code section 2802 et seq.
and Business and Professions Code section 17200 et seq.  
On
September 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion for an order quashing
Defendant’s subpoenas to Plaintiff’s current employer, Cedars Sinai Health
Ventures (“Cedars Sinai”). Alternatively, Plaintiff seeks an order limiting the
documents to be produced. The documents sought by Defendant from Cedars Sinai
include the following: 
1)  
Any and all resumes PLAINTIFF submitted
at any time from 2018 to the present. 
2)  
Any and all job applications PLAINTIFF
submitted at any time from 2018 to the present. 
3)  
Any and all receipts for employee
handbooks or manuals regarding terms of employment PLAINTIFF signed at any time
from 2018 to the present. 
4)  
Any and all employee handbooks or
manuals regarding terms of employment YOU provided to PLAINTIFF from 2018 to
the present.  
Plaintiff
objects to the production of these documents on the grounds that the documents
are irrelevant and production of her employment records from Cedars Sinai, her
current employer, would violate her right to privacy. (Motion, p. 5.) 
The
right of privacy protects an individual’s “reasonable expectation of privacy
against a serious invasion.” (Pioneer Electronics (USA), Inc. v. Sup.Ct. (2007)
40 Cal.4th 360, 370.) The protection is qualified, not absolute, and the Court
must balance the right of privacy against the need for discovery. The burden is
on the party asserting a privacy interest to “establish its extent and
seriousness of the prospective invasion.” (Williams v. Superior Court
(2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557.)  Once a
privacy interest is established, the party seeking discovery of information
within the “zone of privacy” must show that the information is essential to
determining the truth of the disputed matters and not available from other
sources or through less intrusive means. (Britt v. Sup.Ct. (1978) 20 Cal.3d
844, 859-862.) 
Here,
Plaintiff argues that her employment records are private and that her resume,
job applications, and acknowledgement of receipts for employee handles would
violate not only her right to privacy but the privacy of third parties.
Plaintiff argues that since she does not seek lost wages or damages extending
beyond her employment with Defendant, any information about subsequent
employment is irrelevant. 
Personnel
documents and information, communicated to an employer in confidence are
covered by the employee’s constitutional right of privacy. Board of Trustees
v. Superior Court (1981) 119 Cal. App. 3d 516, 524-26; see also Harding
Lawson Assocs. v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 7, 10 [holding
that personnel files are protected by the right of privacy unless the
requesting party shows a compelling need for the particular documents and that
the information cannot reasonably be obtained through depositions or from
nonconfidential sources].)
In
opposition, Defendant argues that the documents sought are relevant because it asserts
as an affirmative defense that Plaintiff was an administrative employee exempt
from overtime and minimum wage laws. (Opp., p. 4.)  Defendant argues that Plaintiff “customarily
and regularly exercised discretion and independent judgment, which is a
required element to prove exempt administrative employee status under state
law.” (Opp., p. 4.) Therefore, Defendant claims that Plaintiff’s resumes and
job applications to prospective employers, which outline her prior job
responsibilities, duties, and title with Defendant, are relevant to the claim
in dispute and serve as declarations against interest. Defendant also argues,
without providing any authority, that Plaintiff does not have a privacy right
to information voluntarily disclosed in anticipation of potential employment,
and that resumes, job applications, employee handbooks, and manuals are not
private documents with respect to which Plaintiff would have a reasonable
expectation of privacy. (Opp., p. 5.) 
The
Labor Code authorizes the Industrial Welfare Commission (IWC) to establish
exemptions for employees who perform certain duties and who “earn[ ] a monthly
salary equivalent to no less than two times the state minimum wage for
full-time employment.” (Lab. Code, § 515, subd. (a).) In turn, IWC wage order
No. 4-2001 (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 8, § 11040; Wage Order 4), which governs
“persons employed in professional, technical, clerical, mechanical, and similar
occupations,” states an employee is exempt under the administrative exemption
if that employee (1) is primarily engaged in exempt duties and (2) earns “a
monthly salary equivalent to no less than two (2) times the state minimum wage
for full-time employment.” (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 8, § 11040, subd. 1(A)(2)(g).)
The assertion of an exemption is an affirmative defense and the employer bears
the burden of proving its existence. (Semprini v. Wedbush Securities, Inc.
(2020) 57 Cal.App.5th 246, 251.) 
Although
Defendant argues that records sought are relevant to one element of its
affirmative defense, Defendant does not establish an evidentiary foundation for
an exemption because there is no evidence that Plaintiff was salaried or paid
the equivalent of, or more than, 2 times the state minimum wage for full-time
employment. In her moving papers, Plaintiff includes a declaration in which she
states that she was most recently paid on an hourly basis of $26. (Motion,
Lopez Decl., ¶ 2.) Defendant’s supplemental response to Plaintiff’s Special
Interrogatory No. 9 also states: “In January 18, 2021, the hourly rate was
increased from $20 to $23; the hourly rate was increased to $25.5 thereafter;
In July 1, 2022, the hourly rate was increased from $25.5 to $26, until June
15, 2024.” (Reply, Kreiman Decl., Ex. E.) 
Since
Plaintiff was paid on an hourly basis, indicating that her earnings are subject
to the number of hours worked, she was not paid a salary. Plaintiff also asserts
that, based on Defendant’s discovery responses, Defendant admits that she was not
paid the requisite amount. Therefore, Defendant fails to show that the
documents sought are relevant.  Accordingly, the Court GRANTS
the motion to quash the subpoena directed to Cedars Sinai. The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions in the amount of $5,850 against Defendant and counsel of
record. Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is not properly noticed and there is
no explanation for how that amount constitutes her reasonable attorney’s fees. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.040.) 
 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 9th day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




Parties who intend to
submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear
at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and
argue the matter. Unless you receive a submission from all other parties in the
matter, you should assume that others might appear at the hearing to argue. If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calen