 Case Number:  24STCV01615    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  32 


 
FERNANDO
  BARAJAS-SALOMON,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
101 GRANITE COUNTERTOP
  LLC, et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  24STCV01615
  Hearing Date:  January 6, 2025
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant quartz max inc.’s motion to
  strike (CRS# 1493)




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On January 19, 2024, Plaintiff
Fernando Barajas-Salomon filed this product liability action against various
defendants. Plaintiff filed the operative Second Amended Complaint on July 30,
2024, asserting (1) negligence, (2) products liability – failure to warn, (3)
products liability – design defect, (4) fraudulent concealment, (5) breach of
implied warranties, and (6) loss of consortium. 
            According to the complaint, from
2005 to 2023, Plaintiff worked as a cutter, fabricator and/or installer of
Defendants’ stone products. (SAC ¶¶ 166-170.) As a result of this work,
Plaintiff came into contact with “inherently hazardous stone products
manufactured, imported, supplied, distributed, contracted, and/or brokered, by
the named Defendants and Does 1-100.” (Id., ¶ 171.) Specifically,
Plaintiff was “exposed to and inhaled stone dust containing silica and other
toxins and carcinogens.” (Ibid.) Plaintiff allegedly developed lung
disease and is at increased risk of developing other silica-related diseases. (Id.,
¶ 172.) Plaintiff alleges that he “has had to receive substantial medical
treatment, including hospitalizations and surgeries, and will require lung
transplantation.” (Id., ¶ 173.) 
            On November 6, 2024, Defendant Quartz
Max Inc. filed the instant motion to strike against the SAC. Plaintiff filed
his opposition on December 20, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part of that pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b).) The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike (1) any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading and (2) all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Id., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face
of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.)
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.)
The Court notes that Defendant has complied with the meet and confer
requirement. (See Akhavan Decl.)
DISCUSSION
            “In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” (Civ. Code, §
3294, subd. (a).) “‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.” (Id., subd. (c)(1).) “‘Oppression’ means
despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Id., subd. (c)(2).) Fraud
is “intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact
known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of
thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing
injury.” (Id., subd. (c)(3).)
            Defendant has not demurred to the
fraudulent concealment claim. Fraud is an independent basis for punitive
damages. Additionally, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant knew of the hazardous
nature of its products for an extended period of time yet concealed the nature
and extent of such hazards. (See, e.g., SAC ¶¶ 1227, 1233-1255.) Even if
this did not constitute fraud, it would constitute a conscious disregard for
Plaintiff’s rights and safety. Therefore, the complaint adequately pleads
malice, oppression, and fraud. 
Plaintiff has also alleged that the
alleged concealment was ratified by Defendant’s corporate officers and
managers. (SAC ¶ 1181.) This is sufficient for pleading purposes. The precise
identities of Defendant’s managing agents may be ascertained in discovery. 
In sum, Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged
facts supporting the prayer for punitive damages.      
CONCLUSION
            Defendant Quartz Max Inc.’s motion
to strike is DENIED.
 