  Case Number:  21STCV18546    Hearing Date:   July 15, 2024    Dept:  B Maria Salgado, et al. V.
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON COMPANY
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
Date of Hearing:         July 15, 2024                          Trial
Date:       January 13, 2025
Department:                B                                             Case
No.:        21STCV18546
 
Moving Party:             Defendant Crown Castle Fiber LLC  
Responding
Party:      Plaintiffs
Maria Salgado & Alexis Banuelos

 

 
BACKGROUND
            
On May 17, 2021,
Maria Salgado and Alexis Banuelos (Plaintiffs) filed a Complaint against
Southern California Edison Company, alleging a sole cause of action of wrongful
death in negligence. This case stems from a motorcycle accident that took place
on December 28, 2019, at the intersection of Florence Avenue and Crofton Avenue
in the City of Bell California. (Complaint, ¶¶ 4-5.) There, Ismael Banuelos
Quintero (Decedent) was operating his motorcycle when he struck the curb, was
ejected off of the motorcycle, struck a “guy wire”, suffered fatal injuries,
and died after arriving at the hospital. (Complaint, ¶ 7.) 
 
            On
August 4, 2022, Plaintiffs amended their initial Complaint to substitute Doe 1
for Crown Castle Fiber, LLC (Defendant) the company that installed the guy wire
at issue. The motion now before the Court is Defendant’s Motion for Summary
Judgment (the Motion). Plaintiffs opposed the Motion; no reply was filed.      
 
Tentative] Ruling
            
Defendant’s
Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.  
 
DISCUSSION
 
Legal Standard
            The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) CCP
Section 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  
 
            “The function of the pleadings in a
motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function
of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable
issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12
Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)
 
            As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
 
            Once the defendant has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one
or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto. To
establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must
produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Analysis
            
The moving party’s initial task here is to present facts and evidence to
negate an element of the cause of action presented by Plaintiffs. As explained
in more detail below, Defendant negates both the duty and breach element of the
sole cause of action, thereby shifting the burden to Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs
have failed to show a triable issue of material fact with regard to duty and
breach, therefore, Defendant’s Motion is granted.
 
            Duty
            “The
elements of a cause of action for wrongful death are a tort, such as
negligence, and resulting death.” (Lopez
v. City of Los Angeles (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 675, 685.) In order to state
a claim for negligence, Plaintiff must allege the elements of (1) “the
existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3)
“proximate cause resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre
v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)
 
            The first element addressed by
Defendant is the element of duty. Defendant points to Rowland v. Christian
(1968) 69 Cal.2d 108 (Rowland) which sets the standard for whether a
duty is owed. Rowland lays out that whether a duty is owed is determined
by weighing the following seven factors: (1) the foreseeability of harm to the
plaintiff; (2) the degree of certainty that the plaintiff suffered injury; (3)
the closeness of the connection between the defendant's conduct and the injury
suffered; (4) the moral blame attached to the defendant's conduct; (5) the
policy of preventing future harm; (6) the extent of the burden to the defendant
and the consequences to the community of imposing a duty to exercise care with
resulting liability for breach; and (7) the availability, cost and prevalence
of insurance for the risk involved. 
 
 
 
(1)   Foreseeability
            As it pertains to foreseeability, ordinarily,
foreseeability is a question of fact for the jury, however it may be decided as
a question of law only if under the undisputed facts there is no room for a
reasonable difference of opinion. (See generally, Rest. 2d Torts, §453.) 
 
            Here, Defendant demonstrates that
Defendant and its contractors installed the subject guy wire. (UMF 7.)
Additionally, the guy wire was a required component of the utility pole under
applicable regulations from the California Public Utility Commission’s (CPUC),
General Order 95. (UMF 9.) Although it is disputed as to whether the guy wire
was covered, there is no allegation that the guy wire was installed contrary to
CPUC regulations. In fact, Defendants argue that the guy wire was installed as
per requirements by CPUC’s regulations. Plaintiffs contend that the guy wire
being placed immediately next to the roadway poses a foreseeable risk of harm
to motorists, however, Plaintiffs provide no proof to support this contention.    
 
            Plaintiffs attempts to analogize to Bigbee
v. Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co. (1983) 34 Cal.3d 49 (Bigbee) are
unpersuasive. In Bigbee, a telephone booth user was injured when the
booth was struck by an automobile who had jumped the curb. The Supreme Court of
California reversed a grant of summary judgment for the telephone company who
installed the booth, holding that there was a triable issue of material fact as
to whether there was a foreseeability of risk for the user, even when the booth
was 15 feet from the side of a major thoroughfare. The facts here are distinguishable.
Decedent was the driver, and as the evidence from both parties shows, Decedent
lost control of the motorcycle prior to being ejected and hitting the guy wire.
(See Plaintiff’s Compendium of Evidence, Exhs. C & D; Defendant’s Index of
Evidence, Exhs. D.) Additionally, in Bigbee it is unclear whether the
telephone company was following any governmental regulations on the placement
of phone booths, whereas here, CPUC governs how and where guy wires are
installed. Bigbee is simply inapplicable.   
 
            Plaintiffs argue that it was
foreseeable for a pedestrian or a motorist to be injured by the guy wire’s
installation. However, no more or less foreseeable than a motorist jumping the
curb to collide with a tree, building, or bus stop. 
                             
(2)   Degree of Certainty 
            The second factor is the degree of
certainty that the plaintiff suffered injury. It is clear that Plaintiff
suffered an injury, but this factor is not dispositive. It must be assessed
with all other factors together.
 
(3)   Closeness of Connection Between Defendant’s
Conduct & the Injury
            The third factor is the connection
between Defendant’s alleged breach and the injury. Here, Defendant has provided
evidence that the guy wire was only installed because it was required by CPUC
regulations. (Declaration of Saad Khalid, hereinafter, Khalid Decl., ¶¶ 10-13.)
There is no evidence nor allegations that Defendant installed the guy wire
improperly or contrary to CPUC regulations. Accordingly, there is no connection
between Defendant’s conduct and the injury here.  
 
(4)   Moral Blame
            When there is no connection between
Defendant’s conduct and Plaintiffs injury, there is no rational for placing
moral blame. 
 
(5)   Preventing Future Harm
            Similarly, with no connection
between the conduct and the harm, preventing future harm is a non-issue.
Defendant contends that guy wires are placed on countless utility poles as per
CPUC’s regulations, and as CPUC has seen no reason to change the manner in
which they are installed because there is no showing of harm, thus there is no
need to attempt to prevent future harm.  
 
(6)   Burden to Defendant and Consequences to the
Community
            Defendant contends that there are
utility poles and guy wires on every boulevard and non-residential street
throughout the state. Defendant argues that a sudden finding that public
utility providers needed to move or change the guy wires attached to utility
poles to prevent injury because a motorist lost control of their motorcycle
would be impractical and costly. The Court agrees.  
 
            Clearly, the Rowland factors
weigh in favor of imposing no duty on Defendant. With no duty, the cause of
action must fail.
 
            Breach
            Additionally,
without a breach of duty, there is no cause of action. Plaintiffs contend that
Defendant breached their duty of care by failing to inspect the guy wire to be
sure it was properly maintained. However, the Declaration of Saad Khalid, a
Supervisor of Field Operations, Maintenance & Inspections at Crown Castle
Fiber, LLC notes that no repairs were performed on this specific guy wire, for
pole number 4452100E, because no repairs nor maintenance were necessary for
that pole number. (Khalid
Decl., ¶ 14.) Plaintiffs evidence to the contrary is unpersuasive. Plaintiffs
present the Declaration of Nestor E. Valencia a former City Councilman, who
states that during his time as a Councilman, he was aware that Sothern
California Edison was not doing an adequate job of maintaining their equipment.
(Declaration of Nestor E. Garcia, ¶ .) However, it is unclear how this relates
to the specific guy wire alleged to have caused Decedent’s injuries and death.                    
 
 
CONCLUSION
            Accordingly, as Defendant has
successfully negated the elements of both duty and breach, the Court need not
address causation. Crown Castle Fiber, LLC’s Motion for Summary Judgment
is GRANTED.  
 
            Moving party to give notice.