  Case Number:  22SMCV01343    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  I At issue is a motion to enforce a settlement agreement.  The agreement provided that defendant would
complete certain work no later than April 30, 2024.  Plaintiffs had to sign off on the work done,
and when the word was completed and approved, a monetary payment would be
released to plaintiffs.  Plaintiffs
contend that the work was not timely completed and they bring this motion to
enforce and to collect the money. 
Defendant opposes, although the opposition is untimely.  Given the circumstances, however, the court
has elected to consider the opposition. 
There is also an unauthorized sur-reply declaration.  However, because it dealt with recent events,
the court has considered it.
 
The parties’ agreement qualifies under section 664.6, which
allows an expedited process to enforce a settlement that has been signed by the
parties.  The settlement here lists nine
things that defendant had to do to comply with the agreement.  According to plaintiffs, the kitchen
cabinets, carpeting, retention of a leak specialist, and replacement of light
fixtures were not timely done or were not done properly.  They also complain that they have not
received the money promised.  
 
The court is having some trouble.  On the one hand, plaintiffs claim that they
are entitled to the monetary payment because they approved at least some of the
work.  But they are wrong.  They are not entitled to the monetary payment
until they have approved all of the work. 
Defendant is buying peace.  It
does not want to pay over the settlement sum only to be told that the case is
not yet over, and the document reads consistent with the defense position on
this issue.  Plaintiffs can certainly
approve the work piecemeal, and it makes sense to do it that way.  But it is not until all the work is approved
that the money is to be paid.  That said,
the court believes that defendant was obligated to pay over the money to
plaintiffs’ counsel within 30 days of signing the agreement.  Apparently it is not clear that 100% of the
money was paid over.  If not, it should
be.  Even so, the release of the
money to plaintiffs must await final approval. 
Plaintiffs’ counsel must hold the money and not release it until the approvals
have been made.  To avoid future
litigation, to qualify, the approvals must be unconditional—a conditional
approval or an approval that requires additional work by the defense is not
sufficient.
 
But that does not answer the question of getting the work
done.  The work was supposed to be
completed by April 30, 2024.  It is now a
month later and plaintiffs state that the work is still not done.  Defendant contends that it has done the bulk
of the work and it is waiting on plaintiffs for that.  Defendant states that it retained Vibe
Remodeling to deal with the leak problem as well as painting and drywall
repair.  Further, defendant states that
as of April 29, 2024, the city closed the file on the problem, suggesting that
the repairs were proper.  On May 14,
2024, according to defendant, “a leak detection company confirmed that there
are no leaks present.”  According to the
landlord, all that is left to do is the carpet replacement and the delay there
is plaintiffs’ fault.  The landlord
states that the carpet cannot be installed until plaintiffs agree that the
cabinetry was done properly.  Defendant
states that it has requested that plaintiffs sign off on the cabinetry multiple
times, but plaintiffs have not done so. 
Once they do, according to the defense, the carpet will be
installed—defendant states that this can be done in a day—and plaintiffs can
move back in.  In reply, plaintiffs state
that no one has actually confirmed to them that the leak issue has been
solved.  Further, plaintiffs state that
their in-home security service shows that Vibe was never in the unit in April,
so it would have been impossible for Vibe to have done any work at that time,
let alone completed it.  Plaintiffs also
note that the City Attorney closed the file, but not the Health Department or
Building and Safety.  Finally, plaintiffs
contend that they have approved the actual work done to date (presumably
including the cabinetry).  In its
sur-reply declaration, defendant states that the remaining items are now
done.  Defendant also blames plaintiffs
for the delay.  According to defendant,
plaintiffs’ counsel harassed Vibe to the point where Vibe has walked off the
job and taken other action that made the repairs more difficult.  The court is not going to get to the bottom
of that today, but does note that if, as defendant states, the work is now
done, then the motion is in fact moot. 
The court also notes that defendant (in the opposition) included
invoices and evidence showing that it was moving forward.  Plaintiffs, in response, question whether
Vibe actually did the work.  If
plaintiffs have evidence that Vibe was making it up, they can certainly present
it in a proper fashion.  But their
hearsay declaration is not sufficient.
 
For now, it appears that the motion is MOOT and is DENIED on
that basis.  If plaintiffs sign off on
the work, the money ought to be released forthwith.  If they do not, then the parties need to work
it out—hopefully without court intervention, but with court intervention if
necessary.