  Case Number:  21TRCV003147    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  B LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                            Wednesday, September 20, 2023
Department B                                                                                                                            Calendar
No. 15 
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Eric Brown v. Charter Communications,
LLC, et al.
            21TRCV00314
1.      Eric Brown’s Renewed Motion to Lift Stay of
Proceedings and for Sanctions, or, in the Alternative, to Compel Defendants to
Pay the Arbitration Filing Fees  
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Eric Brown’s Renewed Motion to Lift
Stay of Proceedings and for Sanctions, or, in the Alternative, to Compel
Defendants to Pay the Arbitration Filing Fee is denied. 
 
Background 
            
            Plaintiff filed the Complaint on April
23, 2021. Plaintiff alleges the following facts. Plaintiff is a former employee
of Defendant. Plaintiff alleges that he was wrongfully terminated, and that
Defendant failed to pay Plaintiff all wages owed. Plaintiff alleges the
following causes of action: 1. Failure to Provide Overtime Compensation; 2.
Failure to Pay Wages; 3. Failure to Indemnify/Reimburse Expenses to Employee;
4. Failure to Provide Accurate Itemized Wage Statements; 5. Waiting Time
Penalties; 6. Discrimination on the Basis of Disability; 7. Discrimination
Based on Perceived Disability; 8. Work Environment Harassment; 9. Retaliation
[Government Code Section 12940(h)]; 10. Failure to Prevent Harassment,
Discrimination, and Retaliation; 11. Retaliation [Labor Code Section 1102.5];
12. Retaliation [Labor Code Section 246.5] ; 13. Failure to Provide Reasonable
Accommodation; 14. Failure to Engage in Good Faith Interactive Process; 15.
Unfair and Unlawful Business Practices; 16. Wrongful Termination [In Violation
of Public Policy]. 
 
            On June 13, 2022, the Court granted
Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration and to stay action in its entirety. On
June 27, 2023, the Court denied Plaintiff’s motion to lift stay and for
monetary sanctions.
 
            Renewed Motion to Lift Stay
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 1008(b) states: 
“A party who originally made an application for an
order which was refused in whole or part, or granted conditionally or on terms,
may make a subsequent application for the same order upon new or different
facts, circumstances, or law, in which case it shall be shown by affidavit what
application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions
were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed
to be shown. For a failure to comply with this subdivision, any order made on a
subsequent application may be revoked or set aside on ex parte motion.”
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 1008(d) states: “A violation of
this section may be punished as a contempt and with sanctions as allowed by
Section 128.7. In addition, an order made contrary to this section may be
revoked by the judge or commissioner who made it, or vacated by a judge of the
court in which the action or proceeding is pending.”
 
Plaintiff renews his previously denied motion to lift
stay and for sanctions pursuant to CCP § 1298.99, or in the alternative, now moves
to compel Defendants to pay the arbitration filing fees, and to proceed with
arbitration forthwith. The motion is made on the ground that CCP section
1008(b) permits a party to renew a motion that was previously denied based on
new or different law. Here, the new law that is presented is Cvejic v.
Skyview Capital, LLC (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 1073. Plaintiff also seeks
monetary sanctions pursuant to CCP § 1281.99 in the amount of $6,120.00 against
Defendants and their counsel.
 
            Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.97 states:
            “(a)(1) In an employment or consumer
arbitration that requires, either expressly or through application of state or
federal law or the rules of the arbitration provider, the drafting party to pay
certain fees and costs before the arbitration can proceed, if the fees or costs
to initiate an arbitration proceeding are not paid within 30 days after the due
date the drafting party is in material breach of the arbitration agreement, is
in default of the arbitration, and waives its right to compel arbitration under
Section 1281.2.
(2) After an employee or consumer meets the filing
requirements necessary to initiate an arbitration, the arbitration provider
shall immediately provide an invoice for any fees and costs required before the
arbitration can proceed to all of the parties to the arbitration. The invoice
shall be provided in its entirety, shall state the full amount owed and the
date that payment is due, and shall be sent to all parties by the same means on
the same day. To avoid delay, absent an express provision in the arbitration
agreement stating the number of days in which the parties to the arbitration
must pay any required fees or costs, the arbitration provider shall issue all
invoices to the parties as due upon receipt.
(b) If the drafting party materially breaches the
arbitration agreement and is in default under subdivision (a), the employee or
consumer may do either of the following:
(1) Withdraw the claim from arbitration and proceed in
a court of appropriate jurisdiction.
(2) Compel arbitration in which the drafting party
shall pay reasonable attorney's fees and costs related to the arbitration.
(c) If the employee or consumer withdraws the claim
from arbitration and proceeds with an action in a court of appropriate
jurisdiction under paragraph (1) of subdivision (b), the statute of limitations
with regard to all claims brought or that relate back to any claim brought in
arbitration shall be tolled as of the date of the first filing of a claim in a
court, arbitration forum, or other dispute resolution forum.
(d) If the employee or consumer proceeds with an
action in a court of appropriate jurisdiction, the court shall impose sanctions
on the drafting party in accordance with Section 1281.99.”
 
            Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.98 states:
            “(a)(1) In an employment or consumer
arbitration that requires, either expressly or through application of state or
federal law or the rules of the arbitration provider, that the drafting party
pay certain fees and costs during the pendency of an arbitration proceeding, if
the fees or costs required to continue the arbitration proceeding are not paid
within 30 days after the due date, the drafting party is in material breach of
the arbitration agreement, is in default of the arbitration, and waives its right
to compel the employee or consumer to proceed with that arbitration as a result
of the material breach.
(2) The arbitration provider shall provide an invoice
for any fees and costs required for the arbitration proceeding to continue to
all of the parties to the arbitration. The invoice shall be provided in its
entirety, shall state the full amount owed and the date that payment is due,
and shall be sent to all parties by the same means on the same day. To avoid
delay, absent an express provision in the arbitration agreement stating the
number of days in which the parties to the arbitration must pay any required
fees or costs, the arbitration provider shall issue all invoices to the parties
as due upon receipt. Any extension of time for the due date shall be agreed
upon by all parties.
(b) If the drafting party materially breaches the
arbitration agreement and is in default under subdivision (a), the employee or
consumer may unilaterally elect to do any of the following:
(1) Withdraw the claim from arbitration and proceed in
a court of appropriate jurisdiction. If the employee or consumer withdraws the
claim from arbitration and proceeds with an action in a court of appropriate
jurisdiction, the statute of limitations with regard to all claims brought or
that relate back to any claim brought in arbitration shall be tolled as of the
date of the first filing of a claim in any court, arbitration forum, or other
dispute resolution forum.
(2) Continue the arbitration proceeding, if the
arbitration provider agrees to continue administering the proceeding,
notwithstanding the drafting party’s failure to pay fees or costs. The neutral
arbitrator or arbitration provider may institute a collection action at the
conclusion of the arbitration proceeding against the drafting party that is in
default of the arbitration for payment of all fees associated with the
employment or consumer arbitration proceeding, including the cost of
administering any proceedings after the default.
(3) Petition the court for an order compelling the
drafting party to pay all arbitration fees that the drafting party is obligated
to pay under the arbitration agreement or the rules of the arbitration
provider.
(4) Pay the drafting party’s fees and proceed with the
arbitration proceeding. As part of the award, the employee or consumer shall
recover all arbitration fees paid on behalf of the drafting party without
regard to any findings on the merits in the underlying arbitration.
(c) If the employee or consumer withdraws the claim
from arbitration and proceeds in a court of appropriate jurisdiction pursuant
to paragraph (1) of subdivision (b), both of the following apply:
(1) The employee or consumer may bring a motion, or a
separate action, to recover all attorney’s fees and all costs associated with
the abandoned arbitration proceeding. The recovery of arbitration fees,
interest, and related attorney’s fees shall be without regard to any findings
on the merits in the underlying action or arbitration.
(2) The court shall impose sanctions on the drafting
party in accordance with Section 1281.99.
(d) If the employee or consumer continues in
arbitration pursuant to paragraphs (2) through (4) of subdivision (b),
inclusive, the arbitrator shall impose appropriate sanctions on the drafting
party, including monetary sanctions, issue sanctions, evidence sanctions, or
terminating sanctions.”
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.99 states:
“(a) The court shall impose a monetary sanction
against a drafting party that materially breaches an arbitration agreement
pursuant to subdivision (a) of Section 1281.97 or subdivision (a) of Section
1281.98, by ordering the drafting party to pay the reasonable expenses,
including attorney's fees and costs, incurred by the employee or consumer as a
result of the material breach.
(b) In addition to the monetary sanction described in
subdivision (a), the court may order any of the following sanctions against a
drafting party that materially breaches an arbitration agreement pursuant to
subdivision (a) of Section 1281.97 or subdivision (a) of Section 1281.98,
unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.
(1) An evidence sanction by an order prohibiting the
drafting party from conducting discovery in the civil action.
(2) A terminating sanction by one of the following
orders:
(A) An order striking out the pleadings or parts of
the pleadings of the drafting party.
(B) An order rendering a judgment by default against
the drafting party.
(3) A contempt sanction by an order treating the
drafting party as in contempt of court.”
 
Plaintiff previously moved for an order to lift the
stay based on Defendant Charter’s alleged failure to timely pay the arbitration
filing fee with the American Arbitration Association ("AAA") within
30 days as provided by CCP § 1281.97(a). However, upon a review of the evidence
submitted by both parties, the instant Court ruled that Defendant did not fail to
pay the arbitration filing fee. In fact, the arbitration fee never became due
because Plaintiff did not comply with the mandated contractual Solution Channel
process. No statutorily proper invoice was generated by the AAA which triggered
the Defendant’s payment obligation.
 
The instant Court stated: “Thus, it is clear from
these correspondences that the due date for AAA filing fees was not September
13, 2022, but, instead that this matter was being held in abeyance absent a
showing of compliance with the Solution Channel process, and that the fee will
only be due payable at a certain date to be determined if and when “this
arbitration is ready to move forward.” Therefore, Plaintiff has failed to
establish that Defendant failed to comply with the requirements of CCP §
1281.97 et seq. and failed to establish that Defendant is in material breach of
the arbitration agreement.” (Court’s Minute Order, dated June 27, 2023).
 
Plaintiff now presents Cvejic v. Skyview Capital,
LLC (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 1073 which Plaintiff contends mandates reversing
the Court’s prior decision. 
 
First, Cvejic is not new law. It simply applies
the facts of that case to the existing law provided by the statutory framework
noted above. Second, factually, Cvejic is distinguishable from the
instant case. In Cvejic, the defendant was required to pay arbitration
fees due on June 4, 2021. Defendant failed to timely pay the fees. This failure
was confirmed by the AAA case manager. However, despite this failure, the AAA
panel decided to set a new deadline date of July 14, 2021, and declined
plaintiff’s request to withdraw from arbitration based on the plain language of
Section 1098. In evaluating a motion under the statutory guidelines noted
above, the L.A. Superior Court decided that the Defendant had materially
breached the arbitration agreement. This ruling was affirmed by the Court of
Appeal. 
 
However, here, in the instant action, the Defendant
has never missed a due date for a payment of the AAA fees. No such due date was
ever imposed, and no proper invoices were ever issued to Defendant triggering
the payment obligation. The Court refers the parties back to the instant
Court’s minute order of June 27, 2023, detailing the reasons why Defendant did
not materially breach the agreement. As noted earlier, the AAA simply held the
matter in abeyance and did not order that Defendant pay fees by a certain
deadline. 
 
As to Plaintiff’s request to order Defendant to pay
fees and proceed to arbitration, the Court cannot rule on this request since
this was not a part of the original ruling, and, thus, not a proper subject for
a renewal motion. However, factually, this alternative request would fail on
the same grounds as the original motion – no fees are due payable, and, thus,
the Court cannot make any order mandating that Defendant pay such fees, and
immediately proceed to arbitration.
 
Therefore, Plaintiff’s Eric Brown’s Renewed Motion to
Lift Stay of Proceedings and for Sanctions, or, in the Alternative, to Compel
Defendants to Pay the Arbitration Filing Fee is denied. 
 
Defendants are ordered to give notice of this ruling.