 Case Number:  21STCV39586    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Continue
Trial filed by Plaintiff Carlos Avalos
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On October 26, 2021, Carlos Avalos, individually and as
successor-in-interest to decedent Alonso Avalos, (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Jose Mier, Premier Liquor, Maria De Jesus Montiel, and Does 1
to 100 for (1) survival, (2) wrongful death (assault/battery), and (3) wrongful
death (negligence) arising out of Defendant Mier hitting decedent Alonso Avalo
with his car. On June 27, 2022, Plaintiff filed the First Amended Complaint
against the same defendants for the same causes of action. 
 
On May 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed the motion to
continue trial. No opposition has been filed.
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 128,
subdivision (a)(8), provides that the court has the power to amend and control
its process and orders so as to make them conform to law and justice. “The
power to determine when a continuance should be granted is within the
discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue, Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44
Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide latitude in the matter of
calendar control including the granting or denying of continuances.” (Park
Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)  
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil
cases, the dates assigned for trial are firm. 
All parties and their counsel must regard the date set for trial as
certain.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(a).)
“Although continuances of trials are
disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own
merits.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(c).)  “The court may grant a
continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance.”  (Ibid.)  Circumstances that may support a finding of
good cause include:  
“(1) The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances;  
(2) The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(3) The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(4) The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice;  
(5) The addition
of a new party if: (A) The new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had
a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard
to the new party's involvement in the case; 

(6) A party's
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; or  
(7) A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)  
“In ruling on a motion or application for
continuance, the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are
relevant to the determination.”  (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)  California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d) sets forth a non-exhaustive list of factors that
the court may consider:  
“(1) The
proximity of the trial date;  
(2) Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party;  
(3) The length
of the continuance requested;  
(4) The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 

(5) The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;

(6) If the case
is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and
whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7) The court's
calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
(8) Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; 

(9) Whether all
parties have stipulated to a continuance; 

(10) Whether the
interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and  
(11) Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).) 
“A trial court may not refuse to hear a summary judgment
motion filed within the time limits of section 437c.” (Sentry Ins. Co. v.
Superior Court (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 526, 529; accord Cole v. Superior
Court (2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 84, 88.)
Discussion
Plaintiff moves
for a trial continuance. Plaintiff states there is still pending discovery
needing including the deposition of Defendant Mier. Plaintiff highlights that
Defendant Mier joined this action on July 31, 2023, and that his counsel has
also requested a second session of the deposition of Plaintiff. (Boyadzhyan
Decl., ¶2, 6.) Plaintiff also needs to reissue subpoenas related to the
criminal case of Defendant Mier. (Id., ¶ 5.) Lastly,
Plaintiff’s counsel contends he has a long cause case set to begin on July 9,
2024, which was filed in 2017.  (Id., ¶ 7.)
Trial is currently set for July 8, 2024.
No opposition as been filed. 
The Court finds that Plaintiff has shown good cause for a
continuance.  The motion is granted.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to
continue trial. 
The Court advances and continues the trial
date to a date in early November 2024. 
The Final Status Conference and all deadlines are reset based on the new
trial date.
Moving Party is ORDERED to give notice.