 Case Number:  23CHCV00288    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 12/12/23
Case #23CHCV00288
 
WRIT OF
ATTACHMENT
 
Application filed on 7/24/23.
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Southern California Real Estate
Management, Inc.
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant Cornerstone Realty Advisors,
Inc.
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: A right to
attach order and writ of attachment with $2,160,000.00 as the amount to be secured by
the attachment which includes $5,000.00 in estimated costs and $50,000.00 in
estimated allowable attorney fees.  The application
seeks to attach any property of Cornerstone. 
Alternatively, Plaintiffs request a temporary protective order barring
the transfer or encumbrance of the Property.*
 
*The memorandum of points and authorities
filed in support of the application indicates that alternatively, SCREM seeks a
temporary protective order.  (See
SCREM’s Ps&As, p.10:1-19).  However,
the application fails to indicate that a temporary protective order is being
sought.  (See Application, p.1,
no.1.c). 

 
RULING: The application is denied in its
entirety.  
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of Plaintiffs Steffanie Stelnick,
Todd Stelnick, and Southern California Real Estate Management, Inc.’s (SCREM) (collectively,
Plaintiffs) claim that Defendants Ryan House and Tamar House (collectively, the
Houses) have breached a Settlement Agreement that ended a prior lawsuit.  Plaintiffs contend that the Houses have repeatedly
breached the Settlement Agreement by engaging in competing activity in
violation of a non-compete clauses in the Settlement Agreement.  The Settlement Agreement provides that the
Houses will owe liquidated damages of $54,000 per violation.   
 
On 2/1/23, Plaintiffs filed this action against the
Houses and Southern California Property Management Company, Inc. (SCPMC) for:
(1) Breach of Contract and (2) Trademark Infringement (15 U.S.C. 1114(1)).  The operative Second Amended Complaint, which
includes the same two causes of action, also names Team House Real Estate,
Inc.  (Team House) and Cornerstone Realty
Advisors, Inc. (Cornerstone) as defendants. 

 
On 2/24/23, Steffanie Stelnick’s prior application for
writ of attachment against the Houses was denied.  (See 2/24/23 Minute Order).  On 7/24/23, SCREM filed the subject
application for right to attach order and writ of attachment against
Cornerstone with $2,160,000.00 as the amount to be secured by the attachment
which includes $5,000.00 in estimated costs and $50,000.00 in estimated
allowable attorney fees.  The application
seeks to attach any property of Cornerstone. 
Alternatively, Plaintiffs request a temporary protective order barring
the transfer or encumbrance of the Property. 
The Court notes that the memorandum of points and authorities filed in
support of the application indicates that alternatively, SCREM seeks a
temporary protective order preventing Cornerstone from transferring, disposing
of, encumbering, or otherwise making available to levy, any of its property.  (See SCREM’s Ps&As,
p.10:1-19).  However, the application
fails to indicate that a temporary protective order is being sought.  (See Application, p.1, no.1.c). 
 
Cornerstone has opposed the application and SCREM has
filed a reply to the opposition.  
     
ANALYSIS
 
Cornerstone’s objections, numbers 1, 3, 11, 12, 14 and
15, to the declaration of Rick Snyder are overruled.  Cornerstone’s objections, numbers 2, 4-10 and
13, to the declaration of Rick Snyder are sustained.  
 
Cornerstone’s objection, number 16, to the declaration of
Todd Stelnick is sustained.  
 
CCP 483.010(a) provides that an attachment may be issued
in an action on a claim or claims for money, each of which is based on a
contract where the total amount of the claim or claims is a fixed or readily
ascertainable amount not less than $500, exclusive of costs, interest and
attorney’s fees.  
 
CCP 484.090(a) provides that the Court shall issue a
right to attach order if it finds all of the following:
 
“(1) The
claim upon which the attachment is based is one upon which attachment may be
issued. 
(2)
The plaintiff has established the probable validity of the claim upon which the
attachment is based. 
(3)
The attachment is not sought for a purpose other than the recovery on the claim
upon which the attachment is based.

(4) The amount to be secured by the
attachment is greater than zero.”
 
SCREM has not shown that the breach of contract cause of
action, the claim on which this application is based, has probable
validity.  See CCP 483.010(a); CCP
484.090(a)(1), (2), (3).  
 
First, Cornerstone is not a party to the Settlement
Agreement.  (Todd Stelnick Decl.,
Ex.1).  Generally, only signatories to a
contract may be liable for any breach.  Tri-Continent
International Corp. (1993) 12 CA4th 1354, 1359.  The basis under which SCREM contends
Cornerstone may be held liable for the purported breach of a contract to which
it was not a party  is not clear from the
application.  To the extent SCREM relies
on an alter ego theory of liability, as set forth in the  opposition, SCREM has failed to establish
same.  (See Application Memorandum
of Points & Authorities, p.7:13-25; Opposition, p.11:6-p.12:23).  In the reply, SCREM does not seem to refute
its failure to establish alter ego liability in the moving papers.  (See Reply, p.4:8-18).  Instead, SCREM argues that it does not need
to establish that Cornerstone is the alter ego of the Houses because
Cornerstone is owned, at least in part, by the Houses and, therefore, its
assets may be needed to satisfy the judgment. 
SCREM provides no authority or evidence to support this argument.  Id.
 
Even if SCREM could establish that Cornerstone is the
alter ego of the Houses, it has not established the probable validity of its
breach of contract cause of action against them.   
 
To support its claim that the
Houses breached the Settlement Agreement, SCREM relies on the non-compete
clause therein which provides: 
 
“Plaintiffs agree not to compete
with Defendants in the business of residential property management for two (2)
years in the Santa Clarita Valley, the San Fernando Valley, the Antelope
Valley, Agua Dolce, and Acton. Commercial property management and residential
and commercial leasing are specifically excluded from this agreement not to
compete with Defendants. In the event Plaintiffs breach their obligation of
non-competing, Plaintiffs agree to pay to Defendants, as liquidated damages,
the sum of $54,000 for each breach. The Parties acknowledge that this provision
for liquidated damages does not constitute a penalty or forfeiture within the
meaning of Civil Code §§3275 or 3369 or any other provision of California law.
The Parties further acknowledge that the payment of damages pursuant to this
provision does not abrogate or affect in any way the terms of this Agreement.”
 
(See Todd Stelnick
Declaration ¶2, Ex.1 ¶1.f).
 
SCREM contends that Tamar House’s responses to Requests
for Admissions, documents provided by Tamar House during discovery and the
opinion of its real estate expert, Richard A. Snyder (Snyder), establish that the
Houses breached the non-compete clause in the Settlement Agreement on at least
40 occasions.  
 
The specific Request for Admission relied upon by SCREM
asked Tamar House to:
 
“Admit that, on or about [one of 40
dates specified in the RFAs], YOU publicly offered for rent a property, on
behalf of said property’s owner, that was located in the geographic area specified
in the AGREEMENT’S non-complete clauses.”
 
Tamar House denied the request and stated that “Team
House Real Estate, Inc. offered this property.” 
(See Todd Stelnick Decl., Ex.2 – Responses to RFAs 14-53).  SCREM also notes that in discovery Tamar
House also produced eight Lease Listing Agreements in which Team House
undertakes to find tenants for a property owner in the geographic area and time
frame set forth in the Settlement Agreement. 
(Todd Stelnick Decl., Ex.3).  
 
Even if the Court needed an expert opinion to interpret a
contract, the Snyder declaration contradicts the express terms of the
Settlement Agreement and is, therefore, unreliable.  Snyder states that “[t]raditional property
management activities for properties include the management of the subject
property, either residential or commercial, and connected with that property
management, the offering to lease properties for rent on behalf of landlords or
owners to tenants.”  (Snyder Decl.
¶7).  He goes to claim that “[t]he
Settlement Agreement barred any type of leasing or property management
activities on behalf of landlord/owners.” 
(Id. ¶8).  However, as
noted above and in Snyder’s declaration, the non-compete clause applies to
residential property management and expressly excludes commercial property
management.  (See Todd Stelnick
Decl., Ex.1, ¶1.f; Snyder Decl. ¶4).  
 
Even accepting Snyder’s opinion of what constitutes
traditional property management activities, the definition does not establish
that the express exclusion of commercial property management and residential
and commercial leasing from the non-compete clause did not allow the Houses to
engage in all traditional property management activities with regard to
commercial property and the limited property management activity of leasing residential
property, whether that be on behalf of 
landlords/owners or tenants.  
 
Further, Snyder’s reliance on Plaintiffs allegations in
the Second Amended Complaint to support his conclusion that “[t]he Defendants
were permitted a ‘sole exception’ to act ‘as a tenant representative to enter
into residential [or commercial] leases” is unavailing.  (Snyder Decl. ¶¶11 fn.8, 19).  The allegations in the Second Amended
Complaint have not been established and it seems clear that in contrast to such
allegations, the Houses did not understand/agree that the Settlement Agreement
barred the Houses from any work with residential landlords “with the sole
exception of acting as a tenant representative to enter into residential
leases.”  (See SAC ¶23).  If the parties to the Settlement Agreement
had intended to more narrowly limit the activities permitted under the
non-complete clause, the agreement could have specified such.  Snyder has failed to support his conclusion
that the Settlement Agreement barred the Houses from acting as a representative
of a landlord in leasing residential property. 
(Snyder Decl. ¶14).  Snyder again
claims that the Settlement Agreement prohibited activity that is clearly
permitted by the exclusions in the non-compete clause (i.e., all management and
leasing aspects of commercial property which even the Second Amended Complaint
concedes is permitted).  (See
Snyder Decl. ¶¶12, 14); SAC ¶23).  
 
The Settlement Agreement provides that it was “drafted
with the collective participation of the Parties hereto and shall be construed
neither against nor in favor of any party hereto in accordance with the fair
meaning thereof.”  (Todd Stelnick Decl.,
Ex.1 ¶10).  As such, the  ambiguities in the contract (i.e., whether the
Houses were permitted to engage in residential leasing activities on behalf of
landlords) cannot be resolved in favor of or against either party.  
 
Based on the foregoing, SCREM has failed to establish that
it more likely than not that it will obtain a judgment against any defendant,
much less Cornerstone, on the breach of contract claim.  See CCP 481.190.  SCREM has also failed to establish that it
will suffer great or irreparable harm if the alternative request for a
protective order is not granted.  See
CCP 486.020(d).  
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, the application is denied in its
entirety.
 
 
 
 
 