 Case Number:  21STCV14092    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  NANCY MONTEROS, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  ALBERTSONS COMPANIES, INC., ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV14092  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING UNOPPOSED MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL DATE   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  October 2, 2023  I. Background On April 14, 2021, Plaintiff Nancy Monteros (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Albertsons, LLC and Albertsons Companeis, Inc. for premises liability. Trial is currently set for October 16, 2023.   On July 7, 2023, Defendant Albertsons, LLC, erroneously sued as Albertsons Companeis, Inc. (“Defendant”) filed the instant motion, requesting the Court to continue the trial date and all related dates to April 12, 2024 or a date thereafter. No opposition was filed.  II. Legal Standard Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits.  (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).)  The Court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).) The Court may look to the following factors in determining whether a trial continuance is warranted: (1) proximity of the trial date; (2) whether there was any previous continuance of trial due to any party; (3) the length of the continuance requested; (4) the availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion; (5) the prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; and (6) whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial.  (See generally, CRC Rule 3.1332(d)(1)-(11).)  Additional factors for the Court to consider include: a party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts; whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance; and any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.  (CRC Rule 3.1332(c), (d).)  III. Discussion Here, Defendant filed its Answer to Plaintiff’s Complaint on September 9, 2022. Defendant avers a continuance is necessary because of Plaintiff’s delay in serving discovery responses. Furthermore, Defendant argues it has not yet taken Plaintiff’s deposition, initially set for July 14, 2023, because it was unable to subpoena Plaintiff’s medical records until Plaintiff served responses. Defendant further contends it requires an expert to assess Plaintiff’s claimed injuries, and that a physical examination may be required. The parties stipulation to continue trial was rejected because the requested continuance was beyond 24 months after the filing of the complaint. Defendant argues a continuance would allow the completion of necessary discovery, and allow time to discuss settlement or participate in mediation. Defense counsel avers that Plaintiff’s deposition has not moved forward as of the date of the instant motion. This is the first request for a trial continuance, and Plaintiff does not oppose the motion. Therefore, the Court finds good cause to continue the trial date to allow the parties sufficient time to conduct and complete discovery prior to trial.   Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to continue trial is GRANTED.   The October 16, 2023 trial date is continued to ______________ at 8:30 a.m. in Department 31 of the Spring Street Courthouse.  The October 2, 2023 Final Status Conference is continued to _______________ at 10:00 a.m. in Department 31.  All discovery and expert cutoff dates are continued to reflect the new trial date.    Defendant is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: The Court is not available to hear oral argument on this date.  If the parties do not submit on the tentative and want oral argument, the hearing will have to be continued, and the parties must work with the clerk to find an available date for the continuance. Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 29th day of September 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   