 Case Number:  21STCV38168    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  ALEXIS BELL, ET AL., Plaintiff(s),  vs.  SASAN SALMI, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV38168 (C/W 22AVCV00863)  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO STAY PROCEEDING OR ALTERNATIVELY STAY DISCOVERY  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  October 2, 2023  ALEXIS RAESHAUN BELL, Plaintiff(s),  vs. JESUS ALEJANDRO ROSAS BARBOZA, ET AL., Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )          I. Background  This is a consolidated action for negligence and negligent entrustment arising from two separate motor vehicle collisions, which took place on November 26, 2019 and on October 14, 2022 in Los Angeles County.  On May 13, 2022, Plaintiffs Alexis Bell, Latiffany Draper, and minors Harmony Ellis and Latiffany Ellis, by and through their guardian ad litem Latiffany Draper, filed their Second Amended Complaint against Sasan Salmi and Kayhan Salmi for injuries arising from automobile v. automobile accident. Plaintiffs allege on November 26, 2019, Plaintiffs were sitting in their completely stopped vehicle in traffic when Defendant Kayhan Salmi rear-ended Plaintiffs’ vehicle at highway speeds. On October 27, 2022, Plaintiff Alexis Raeshaun Bell filed his Complaint against Defendants Jesus Alejandro Rosas Barboza, Pedro Bacio, Jr., Pedro Bacio, Jr. d/b/a Bacio’s Trucking for injuries arising from an automobile v. semi-truck collision on the freeway. Plaintiff alleges that on October 13, 2022, Defendant Jesus Alejandro Rosas Barboza, while driving a freight semi-truck within the course and scope of his employment, sideswiped the right passenger side of Plaintiff’s vehicle, causing the vehicle to rollover.   On February 24, 2023, the two actions were deemed related. On March 24, 2023, the parties stipulated to consolidate the two actions.  On July 10, 2023, Defendants Jesus Alejandro Rosas Barboza (“Barboza”), Pedro Bacio, Jr., Pedro Bacio, Jr. d/b/a Bacio’s Trucking (collectively, “Defendants”) filed the instant motion to stay proceedings or in the alternative to stay discovery proceedings against Barboza. Defendants move for a stay the civil proceeding until the resolution of an ongoing criminal matter related to the October 13, 2022 accident, which gave rise to Plaintiff Alexis Raeshaun Bell’s (“Bell”) action against Defendants.  Plaintiff Bell opposes the motion, and Defendants filed a reply.    II. Legal Standard “The Constitution does not ordinarily require a stay of civil proceedings pending the outcome of criminal proceedings…‘In the absence of substantial prejudice to the rights of the parties involved, [simultaneous] parallel [civil and criminal] proceedings are unobjectionable under our jurisprudence…Nevertheless, a court may decide in its discretion to stay civil proceedings . . . when the interests of justice seem…to require such action.’”¿ (quoted in Avant! Corp. v. Superior Court, 79 Cal. App. 4th 876, 885 (2000) (quoting Keating v. Office of Thrift Supervision, 45 F.3d 322, 324 (9th Cir. 1995)).)   The decision of whether to stay civil proceedings in the face of a parallel criminal proceeding should be made in light of the particular circumstances and competing interests involved in the case.¿ (Avant! Corp. v. Superior Court (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 876.) The trial court should consider the following factors in ruling on a motion to stay pending the resolution of criminal proceedings:¿¿¿  the extent to which the party seeking the stay's fifth amendment rights are implicated; ¿¿  the interest of the party opposing the stay in proceeding expeditiously with this¿litigation or any particular aspect of it, and the potential prejudice to the party opposing the stay or a delay;¿¿¿   the burden which any particular aspect of the proceedings may impose on the party seeking the stay;¿¿¿   the convenience of the Court in the management of its cases, and the efficient use of judicial resources;¿¿¿   the interests of persons not parties to the civil litigation; and ¿¿¿  the interest of the public in the pending civil and criminal litigation.¿¿¿  (Id. at p. 885.)¿¿ However, a defendant has no absolute right not to be forced to choose between testifying in a civil matter and asserting his Fifth Amendment privilege.¿ (Id.)¿ Not only is it permissible to conduct a civil proceeding at the same time as a related criminal proceeding, even if that necessitates invocation of the Fifth Amendment privilege, but it is even permissible for the trier of fact to draw adverse inferences from the invocation of the Fifth Amendment in a civil proceeding.¿(Id. at 885-886.)¿ Although a stay is most appropriate where the subject matter of the parallel civil and criminal proceedings are the same, there is no Constitutional requirement that civil proceedings be stayed merely because a parallel criminal proceeding is in the works. (Aspen Financial Services v. Dist. Ct. (2012) 128 Nev. 635, 642.) Courts that are confronted with a civil defendant who is exposed to criminal prosecution arising from the same facts ‘weigh the parties' competing interests with a view toward accommodating the interests of both parties, if possible.’” (Fuller v. Superior Court (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) Courts have accommodated defendants in a civil action facing parallel criminal proceedings from a standpoint of fairness, rather than from any constitutional right. (Id at p. 307.) Courts have devised procedures designed to accommodate the specific circumstances of each case, including allowing civil defendants to invoke the privilege against self-incrimination, conferring an immunity on the party invoking the privilege, or precluding a litigant from waiving the privilege and testifying at trial to matters upon which the privilege has been asserted. (Id at 308.)   Defendants may not invoke blanket privilege with respect to discovery requests. (Fuller v. Superior Court (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 299, 308.) The trial court must be given the opportunity to determine whether particular questions posed in the depositions would elicit answers that “support a conviction” or that “furnish a link in the chain of evidence needed to prosecute the witness” Id.  III. Discussion Defendants seek to stay the entire action or alternatively stay discovery proceedings specific to Barboza on the grounds that Barboza is a defendant in a criminal matter pending before Kern County Superior Court (LM125521A) and pending before Los Angeles County Superior Court (MA084719) that arises out of the same incident as alleged in Plaintiff Bell’s civil action. Preliminary, in relation to MA084719, the Court notes that after the filing of the instant motion, the matter was disposed of on August 10, 2023, wherein Barboza was sentenced to 16 months state prison. Therefore, there is no action pending in Los Angeles County.  The Court will determine whether a stay is appropriate using the factors set forth in Avant! and Keating. The extent to which the party seeking the stay's Fifth Amendment rights are implicated. Defendants conclusory contend that Barboza’s Fifth Amendment rights are implicated because he is subject to a pending criminal prosecution and is likely to exercise his Fifth Amendment right in the event his deposition is noticed.  In opposition, Plaintiff Bell asserts that Defendants have not provided sufficient information related to Barboza’s DUI charges in Kern County, when the pre-trial conference and preliminary hearing date has since passed. Additionally, there is no evidence about the outcome and future hearings for Barboza’s pending charges. Plaintiff Bell further argues that discovery has already proceeded, and Barboza provided substantial responses in written discovery. More particularly, Plaintiff Bell contends Barboza directly responded to discovery requests regarding the issue of alcohol consumption prior to the October 14, 2022 incident. Plaintiff Bell avers Barboza has waived his right against self-incrimination by responding to these discovery requests, and that there is no basis to assert the Fifth Amendment.  The Court reviewed Barboza’s responses to Plaintiff Bell’s special interrogatories. As to each interrogatory requesting Barboza to list any and all alcoholic beverages consumed during the between one to five hours prior to the incident, Barboza responded that he did not consume any alcoholic beverage in that timeframe. Furthermore, Barboza responded that he drank water prior to the incident. The Court is not persuaded that Barboza has waived his right against self-incrimination by providing responses denying allegations that he was driving under the influence at the time of the incident, and neither does Plaintiff Bell support this contention with any relevant authority.  Nevertheless, Defendants have not sufficiently demonstrated Barboza’s Fifth Amendment rights would be implicated by responding to discovery, because Barboza did respond to discovery. “[T]he privilege is properly invoked whenever the witness’s answers ‘would furnish a link in the chain of evidence needed to prosecute’ the witness for a criminal offense.  [Citation.]”  (People v. Cudjo (1993) 6 Cal.4th 585, 617.)  “[I]t need only be evident from the implications of the question, in the setting in which it is asked, that a responsive answer to the question or an explanation of why it cannot be answered might be dangerous because injurious disclosure could result.”  (Ibid.) Defendants have offered only conclusory statements. Conclusory statements do not help the Court reach a decision. Because Defendants have not shown that Barboza would be compelled to invoke his fifth amendment privileges and possibly submit to civil liability, or risk having any discovery responses potentially used in the criminal trial against him, this factor weighs against a stay. Most importantly, the moving party has simply not provided enough information about the Kern County criminal case. In reply, Defendant provides that the next hearing date is October 17, 2023; however, the reply is silent as to the type of hearing. The Court has absolutely no information before it to help it understand the length of the stay being requested.  The interest of the party opposing the stay in proceeding expeditiously with this¿litigation or any particular aspect of it, and the potential prejudice to the party opposing the stay or a delay. Defendants argue Plaintiff Bell would not be prejudiced in proceeding expeditiously with this litigation, and that instead Plaintiff would be prejudiced by Barboza’s continued presence with a criminal case pending because Plaintiff Bell would be unable to conduct meaningful discovery in light of Barboza’s intention to assert his Fifth Amendment privilege. Plaintiff Bell argues this is a consolidated action, and that a stay on the case would prevent Plaintiff Bell and the other named Plaintiffs from litigating their case against all the other defendants. Furthermore, in terms of staying discovery, Plaintiff Bell contends that Barboza stipulated to the consolidation.  Defendants affirm October 17, 2023 is the next hearing date for the criminal matter pending in Kern County, and affirm that the criminal matter in Los Angeles County had resolved in their reply. The criminal proceeding in Kern County Superior Court is still in its early stages and Defendants fail to provide any details as to how long the stay is likely to be. Thus, a stay is likely to significantly delay litigation in this matter. Because a stay would delay resolution of this dispute and delay the potential recovery of Plaintiff Bell and the other named Plaintiffs in this consolidated action, this factor weighs against a stay.  The burden which any particular aspect of the proceedings may impose on the party seeking the stay. Defendants’ argument as to this factor is the same as the first factor. Defendants argue Barboza cannot be expected to answer questions in discovery without fear of self-incrimination in the pending criminal case. However, Barboza already responded to discovery in the civil action.  Defendants argue that Barboza would be forced to invoke his Fifth Amendment rights.  However, Barboza does not have an absolute right not to be forced between testifying in this matter and asserting Fifth Amendment privilege. Litigation in this matter may proceed even if there is a parallel criminal matter pending. This factor does not weigh significantly for a stay.  The convenience of the Court in the management of its cases, and the efficient use of judicial resources. Defendants argue a stay would not impact the Court’s management of its cases or judicial resources, because a stay would minimize the likelihood of discovery disputes, additional trial continuances, and potential appeals. Plaintiff Bell does not directly oppose this factor, and merely cites to authority to generally argue that a stay would not promote principles of efficiency. This factor does not weigh significantly in favor of or against a stay.  The interests of persons not parties to the civil litigation. There is no evidence that persons not parties to the civil litigation would be impacted by a stay.    The interest of the public in the pending civil and criminal litigation.¿ Defendants contend Barboza’s invocation of his Fifth Amendment privilege is a constitutionally protected right to avoid self-incrimination. Plaintiff Bell’s only argument is that Defendants must be held accountable for injuries Plaintiff Bell suffered in the two collisions. There is no absolute Constitutional right that requires a civil action to be stayed while a concurrent criminal action is pending. This factor does not weigh strongly in favor of or against a stay.  The factors, overall, weigh against a stay. The evidence shows that this matter involves two different collisions involving a different set of Plaintiffs and different set of Defendants, in which only one action involves a criminal matter. Barboza expressed that he might invoke his Fifth Amendment rights in terms of his deposition, as he already has responded to Plaintiff Bell’s initial written discovery. There is currently no showing that further discovery will likely require significant court intervention to resolve disputes over Barboza’s Fifth Amendment rights.  IV. Conclusion Defendants do not explain how Barboza’s Fifth Amendment rights would be implicated when Defendants have not identified any actual pending discovery to be stayed. Furthermore, the criminal proceeding against Barboza has been pending for a year, yet Defendants waited until now to seek to stay the action or stay discovery when discovery had already commenced. In sum, Defendants’ request is too vague and lacking sufficient detail for the Court to be able to grant Defendants’ request.  Based on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion for a stay of proceedings or alternatively to stay discovery against Barboza is DENIED.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: The Court is not available to hear oral argument on this date.  If the parties do not submit on the tentative and want oral argument, the hearing will have to be continued, and the parties must work with the clerk to find an available date for the continuance. Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 29th day of September 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   