  Case Number:  20STCV08021    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  ADA MAZARIEGOS, ET AL., Plaintiff(s),  vs.  NANCY RODRIGUEZ, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 20STCV08021  [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING WITHOUT PREJUDICE DEFENDANT’S MOTIONS TO COMPEL   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  October 2, 2023  Defendant Nancy Rodriguez (“Rodriguez”) propounded form interrogatories, set two, and request for production of documents (“RPDs”), set two, on Plaintiff Ada Mazariegos (“Mazariegos”) on March 31, 2023. After granting Mazariegos an extension to serve responses, Rodriguez avers that Mazariegos has not served any responses. Plaintiff did not oppose the motion.  However, the Court notes that Rodriguez’s motions to compel were filed on September 8, 2023, which is exactly 16 court days from the hearing set for October 2, 2023. Rodriguez served the moving papers on Plaintiffs’ counsel by electronic mail on September 8, 2023.  CCP § 1005 provides, in relevant part, that all moving and supporting papers shall be served and filed at least 16 court days before the hearing, but if notice was served by facsimile transmission, express mail, or another method of delivery providing for overnight delivery, the required 16-day period of notice before the hearing shall be increased by two calendar days. The instant motion should have been filed and served by at least September 6, 2023 or earlier, to account for the method of service.   Based on the foregoing, the motion is denied without prejudice for failure to comply with CCP § 1005.  Moving Defendant is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: The Court is not available to hear oral argument on this date.  If the parties do not submit on the tentative and want oral argument, the hearing will have to be continued, and the parties must work with the clerk to find an available date for the continuance. Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 29th day of September 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   