 Case Number:  23STCV04789    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
Motion of Law Office of Jacob Partiyeli to be Relieved as Counsel-Civil.
 
BACKGROUND
EJA HAYNESPOLKE (Plaintiff) brings this habitability
case against 600 TOWER, LLC.
Now, counsel moves to be relieved as attorney of
record for Plaintiff.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
“The determination whether to grant or deny an
attorney 's motion to withdraw as counsel of record lies within the sound
discretion of the trial court, having in mind whether such withdrawal might
work an injustice in the handling of the case.” Lempert v. Sup. Ct.
(2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1161, 1173. 
 
ANALYSIS
Counsel moves to be relieved as attorney of record by
declaring:
There has been a
breakdown in client communications, which makes it impossible for our firm to
proceed with this case and to act in the best interest of the Plaintiff. The
Plaintiff’s behavior and the lack of ongoing communication with Ms. Haynespolke
prevents us from effectively representing her in this matter.

Here, the form notice, declaration, proposed order,
and proof of service sufficiently comply with the requirements for a motion to
be relieved as counsel. See
Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362. Further, moving counsel’s declaration shows at
least one cognizable ground for withdrawal: 

Client
     by conduct renders it unreasonably difficult for the member to carry out
     the employment effectively (e.g., noncooperation or
     noncommunication). Rules Prof. Conduct, rule 1.16(b)(4). Cf.  Estate of Falco,
     supra, 188 Cal App.3d at 1020 (“We find no abuse of discretion in
     the trial court's implicit finding rejecting the contention that
     respondents' lack of cooperation justified appellants' withdrawal.”).

Finally, no opposing document has been filed showing
any prejudice to the client. See Rules Prof. Conduct, rule 1.16, subdiv. (d). 
 
CONCLUSION
Therefore, the Court grants the motion, and will sign
the proposed order submitted by counsel.
 