 Case Number:  23AHCV02228    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



JULIA SARABI, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
AMERICAN
   HONDA MOTOR CO., INC.,

                   Defendant(s),


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV02228
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO., INC.’S DEMURRER AND
   MOTION TO STRIKE 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
March 8,
   2024



 
I.       INTRODUCTION
          On
September 26, 2023, plaintiff Julia Sarabi (“Plaintiff”) filed this action for
violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act and fraudulent concealment
against defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc. (“Defendant”). Plaintiff’s
fraud claim arises from the concealment of material facts at the time she
purchased a new 2022 Honda Odyssey (the “Vehicle”). (Compl., ¶¶ 4 8.) Specifically,
Plaintiff claims that Defendant concealed the existence and nature of a defect
with the Vehicle’s computerized driver-assistance safety systems called “Honda
Sensing” (the “Sensing Defect”). The Sensing Defect impedes the Vehicle’s subsystems
from reliably and accurately detecting and appropriately responding to
conditions on the roadway, causing malfunctions of the adaptive cruise control,
the lane-departure system, and the autonomous braking system called Collision
Mitigation Braking System (“CMBS”). (Compl., ¶¶ 11-19.) 
Defendant
demurs to Plaintiff’s cause of action for fraud and moves to strike Plaintiff’s
prayer for punitive damages.  
II.      LEGAL
STANDARDS
A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of the pleadings and will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on
its face. City of Atascadero v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith,
Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459.) “We treat the demurrer as admitting
all material facts properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law. We accept the factual allegations of the complaint
as true and also consider matters which may be judicially noticed. [Citation.]”
(Mitchell v. California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th
1000, 1007; Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123
Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true,
however improbable they may be”].) Allegations are to be liberally construed. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 452.) A demurrer may be brought if insufficient facts are stated
to support the cause of action asserted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(e).) 
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole
or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).) The court may,
upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems
proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Stafford v. Shultz (1954)
42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim
is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or
disregarded”].) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with California law, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) An immaterial or irrelevant
allegation is one that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense;
is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or
defense; or a demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations
of the complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subd. (b).) The grounds for
moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial
notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
III.     DISCUSSION
A.          
Demurrer
Defendant demurs to Plaintiff’s second
cause of action for fraudulent inducement – concealment. The tort of deceit or
fraud requires a plaintiff to plead and prove: “(a) misrepresentation (false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or
“scienter”); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance;
and (e) resulting damage.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th
631, 638.) Defendant argues that Plaintiff failed to plead facts sufficient to
establish a duty to disclose, intent to defraud, justifiable reliance, or resulting
damages. Defendant also argues that Plaintiff’s fraud claim is barred by the
economic loss rule. 
Duty to Disclose
When any claim for fraud is based on an
omission, one of the following four circumstances must apply in order to
establish the defendant’s duty to disclose information to the plaintiff: (1)
the defendant is the plaintiff’s fiduciary; (2) the defendant has exclusive
knowledge of material facts not known or reasonably accessible to the
plaintiff; (3) the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the
plaintiff; and (4) the defendant makes partial representations that are
misleading because some other material fact has not been disclosed. (LiMandri
v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 336.) 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff cannot
prove that there was a duty to disclose because a duty to disclose cannot arise
between a defendant and the public at large. (Demurrer, 11:10-12:3.) In Bigler-Engle
v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, the court of appeal reversed a jury
verdict in favor of the plaintiffs on a claim for intentional concealment on
the grounds that there was no “transaction” arising from direct dealings
between the plaintiff and defendant manufacturer of a medical device. However,
there was no evidence in Bigler that the device manufacturer “directly
advertised its products to consumers” whereas, here, Plaintiff alleges that she
relied on statements and marketing materials by Defendant and its authorized
agents. (Compl., ¶ 87.) 
Defendant also argues that it owes no
duty to disclose to Plaintiff because it did not possess “exclusive” knowledge
of the Sensing Defect. Defendant argues that the information of about the Sensing
Defect was equally available to Plaintiff because technical service bulletins (“TSBs”)
are reported to the National Highway Transportation Safety Association and made
public.  (Motion, 12:4-13:14.) Plaintiff
argues in opposition that Defendant had a duty to disclose the Transmission
Defect because federal courts have interpreted “exclusive” knowledge of material
facts to mean “superior” knowledge, that is, if a car manufacturer is “alleged
to have known a lot more about the [defect], including information
unavailable to the public.” (Opp. at p. 5, citing Falk v. Gen. Motors Corp.
(N.D. Cal. 2007) 496 F.Supp.2d 1088, 1096-97 [courts have not defined
"exclusive" literally but have found the standard met if the
defendant had "superior" knowledge of a defect].) 
Plaintiff has the better argument at
this point of the litigation. Whether Plaintiff possessed actual knowledge or
knowledge equivalent to that of Defendant about the Sensing Defect is an issue
of proof to be determined at a later stage in the case.
Defendant’s demurrer on this ground is
OVERRULED.  
          Economic
Loss Rule 
Next, the Court addresses Defendant’s claim
that Plaintiff’s fraud claim is barred by the economic loss rule. (Demurrer at
pp. 15-19.) The seminal case, Robinson v. Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp.
(2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988 holds that “[t]he economic loss rule requires a
purchaser to recover in contract for purely economic loss due to disappointed
expectations, unless he can demonstrate harm above and beyond a broken
contractual promise.”  In opposition,
Plaintiffs argue that tort damages are available in contract cases where a
contract was fraudulently induced. Plaintiffs also cite to Dhital v. Nissan
North America, Inc.  (2022) 84
Cal.App.5th 828, 838, in which the Court of Appeal applied the fraudulent
inducement exception to allow a fraud claim against a car manufacturer to
proceed, explaining that a defendant’s fraudulent inducement is independent of a
later breach of the contract or warranty provisions that were agreed to.  (Id. at p. 840-841 
The Court agrees with the Dhital court’s
expansion of Robinson.  Fraudulent
concealment of facts to induce the making of a contract is conduct
distinguishable from a subsequent breach of said contract. In Dhital,
the court of appeal reasoned that the car manufacturer defendant’s conduct before
the sale forms the basis for the plaintiff’s fraud claim while defendant’s
conduct after the sale forms the basis for the warranty claim. (Dhital, supra,
84 Cal.App.5th at pp. 841-842.) This Court also looks to the California Supreme
Court’s discussion of public policy in Robinson. Allowing Plaintiffs’
fraudulent concealment claim to go forward “advances the public interest in
punishing intentional misrepresentations” and “preserves a business climate
free of fraud and deceptive practices.” (Robinson, supra, 34
Cal.4th at p. 992 [citing to Diamond Multimedia Systems, Inc. v. Superior
Court (1999) 19 Cal.4th 1036, 1064].) 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer on
this ground is OVERRULED. 
Sufficiency of Complaint
Last, the Court addresses the
sufficiency of Plaintiff’s allegations. Defendant argues that Plaintiff fails
to plead that it concealed or suppressed a material fact about the Sensing
Defect. (Demurrer, pp. 8-9.) This is unpersuasive. Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant and its agents “actively concealed the existence and nature of the Sensing
Defect”; specifically, “a. any and all known material defects or material
nonconformity of the [Vehicle], including defects relating to the computerized
driver-assistance safety system and collision mitigation braking system; b.
that the [Vehicle], including its computerized driver-assistance safety system,
and collision mitigation braking system, was not in good working order, was
defective, and was not fit for the intended purposes; and, c. that [Vehicle]
and its computerized driver-assistance safety system, and collision mitigation
braking system, were defective, despite the fact that [Defendant] learned of
such defects through alarming failure rates, [sic] and customer complaints.” (Compl.,
¶ 71.) Plaintiff additionally alleges that the Sensing Defect is triggered by
certain conditions, including nearly every condition in which consumers operate
their vehicles, and that Defendant’s Owner’s Guide failed to disclose that the
Sensing Defect can fail due to normal everyday driving conditions. (Compl., ¶ 21.)
Further, Plaintiff claims that the Sensing Defect “suffers from frequent
malfunctions, causing (1) numerous warning messages to intermittently appear on
the vehicles’ instrument cluster alerting drivers to a problem with Honda
Sensing safety and driver-assist system, (2) the vehicles to fluctuate their highway
speed without warning when adaptive cruise control is set, (3) the vehicles to
alert drivers to apply brakes immediately although no obstruction is present,
(4) the vehicles to apply brakes although no obstruction is present, (5) the
vehicles to falsely alert drivers that they fail to drive their vehicle within
road lane markings, and (6) the vehicles to steer themselves outside lane of
travel.” (Compl., ¶ 17.)
The Court is also unpersuaded by
Defendant’s claim that Plaintiff fails to plead with specificity the
representations that she relied on in purchasing the vehicle. (Demurrer, pp. 13-14.)
The rule of specifically pleading how, when, where, to whom and by what means,
misrepresentations were communicated is intended to apply to affirmative
misrepresentations and not to concealment. (Alfaro v. Community Housing
Improvement System & Planning Assn, Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356 at
1384.) “The requirement of specificity is relaxed when the allegations indicate
that ‘the defendant must necessarily possess full information concerning the
facts of the controversy.” (Tarmann v. State Farm (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th
153, 58.)
Last, Defendant argues that no
representations were made by Defendant because there are no allegations of
direct contact with Defendant (as opposed to the dealership). (Demurrer, pp. 10.)
Defendant claims that any representations, misstatements, or omissions by
dealers are not attributable to or actionable against it without allegations of
agency. However, Plaintiff alleges that she was assisted by a salesperson and
that she relied on the statements made during the sales process by Defendant’s
agents. (Compl., ¶¶ 87-88.) Plaintiff also alleges she relied upon marketing
materials, television commercials, and radio commercials that Defendant issued.
(Compl., ¶¶ 87-88.) While Plaintiff ultimately bears the burden to prove any
agency relationship, the allegations pleaded in the Complaint are sufficient
for purposes of pleading at this stage of the litigation.  
B.  
Motion
to Strike
Defendant moves to strike Plaintiff’s
prayer for punitive damages on the grounds that Plaintiff fails to plead facts
with requisite specificity to support a punitive damages claim. 
Punitive damages are allowed in
non-contract cases when a defendant is guilty of “oppression, fraud, or malice
. . . .” (Civ. Code § 3294.) Here, because Plaintiff alleges a viable fraud
claim, she has pleaded fraud for the purposes of entitlement to punitive
damages under Civil Code § 3294.
IV.     CONCLUSION
Defendant’s demurrer is OVERRULED.  
Defendant’s motion to strike is DENIED.  
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 8th
day of March 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions
provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you
submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing
party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 
 
 