  Case Number:  23SMCV04576    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGDefendant California Rehabilitation Institute, LLC and Select Hospitals Investors, LP’s Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED with thirty (30) days leave to amend.Plaintiff Robert Johnson, Individually and as Heir and Successor-in-Interest to Patricia Johnson, Deceased, may amend his complaint only as authorized by the Court’s order and may not amend the complaint to add a new party or cause of action without having obtained permission to do so. (Harris v. Wachovia Mortgage, FSB (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023.)Defendant California Rehabilitation Institute, LLC and Select Hospitals Investors, LP to give notice.REASONINGDefendant California Rehabilitation Institute, LLC and Select Hospitals Investors, LP (“Defendant”) demurs to Plaintiff Robert Johnson, Individually and as Heir and Successor-in-Interest to Patricia Johnson, Deceased (“Plaintiff”)’s claim for violations of the Elder and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act.“[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents].) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967), but the Court does not “assume the truth of contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law” (Moore v. Regents of University of California (1990) 51 Cal.3d 120, 125).Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 [court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”]; Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 [“A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment.”]; Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768 [“When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to amend.”].) The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)First Cause of Action: Violations of the Elder Dependent Adult Civil Protection ActTo state a cause of action for elder abuse and neglect, Plaintiff must allege “[p]hysical abuse, neglect, abandonment, isolation, abduction, or other treatment with resulting physical harm or pain or mental suffering.” (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.07, subd. (a)(1).) Acts which are prohibited under the Elder Abuse Act provisions of the Welfare and Institute Code “do not include acts of simple professional negligence, but refer to forms of abuse or neglect performed with some state of culpability greater than mere negligence.” (Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 781 (Covenant Care).)To constitute abuse and neglect within the meaning of the Elder Abuse Act, thereby triggering the enhanced remedies available under the Act, Plaintiff “must demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence that defendant is guilty of something more than negligence; he or she must show reckless, oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious conduct,” with recklessness referring “to a subjective state of culpability greater than simple negligence, which has been described as a “deliberate disregard” of the “high degree of probability” that an injury will occur,” and “[o]ppression, fraud and malice [involving] intentional or conscious wrongdoing of a despicable or injurious nature.” (Sababin v. Superior Court (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 81, 88-89, quotation marks omitted.) Neglect includes failure to assist in personal hygiene, failure to provide medical care for physical and mental health needs, and failure to protect from health and safety hazards. (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.57, subd. (b).)  [S]everal factors [] must be present for conduct to constitute neglect within the meaning of the Elder Abuse Act and thereby trigger the enhanced remedies available under the Act. The plaintiff must allege (and ultimately prove by clear and convincing evidence) facts establishing that the defendant: (1) had responsibility for meeting the basic needs of the elder or dependent adult, such as nutrition, hydration, hygiene or medical care; (2) knew of conditions that made the elder or dependent adult unable to provide for his or her own basic needs; and (3) denied or withheld goods or servicesnecessary to meet the elder or dependent adult’s basic needs, either with knowledge that injury was substantially certain to befall the elder or dependent adult (if the plaintiff alleges oppression, fraud or malice) or with conscious disregard of the high probability of such injury(if the plaintiff alleges recklessness). The plaintiff must also allege (and ultimately prove by clear and convincing evidence) that the neglect caused the elder or dependent adult to suffer physical harm, pain or mental suffering. Finally, the facts constituting the neglect and establishing the causal link between the neglect and the injury “must be pleaded with particularity,” in accordance with the pleading rules governing statutory claims. (Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC(2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 406-407, citations omitted.)  In the first cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant knew the care plan put in place for Decedent Patricia Johnson (“Decedent”) was inadequate to meet her needs, which is shown through her development of pressure ulcers, deep tissue injuries, and resulting complications, and Defendants’ failure to heal those injuries. (First Am. Compl. ¶ 94.) Plaintiff alleges that the neglect was ongoing, as her medical records indicate her wounds worsened over time, and had needed care been provided, Decedent would not have developed the injuries. (First Am. Compl. ¶¶ 95-96.)Put simply, Plaintiff has failed to state facts that meet the heightened standard of pleading for elder abuse and neglect. (See Covenant Care, supra, 32 Cal.4th at p. 790 [“statutory causes of action must be pleaded with particularity”].) In the First Amended Complaint, Plaintiff alleges that Decedent’s pressure ulcers were treated by Defendant and reduced in size, and Decedent was discharged on October 15, 2022. (First Am. Compl. ¶¶ 58, 64-66.) While Plaintiff alleges that the wound grew in size, this is belied by the numbers in the First Amended Complaint, i.e., the size of the wound is alleged to be smaller on a later date. The trier of fact could not conclude that elder abuse occurred here where the facts tend to show no more than negligence or medical malpractice by Defendant which caused Decedent’s harms. The Court will allow Plaintiff the opportunity to amend this claim, and Plaintiff is advised that the facts of the amended pleading must show a failure to provide necessary medical care, not just a negligent rendering of medical care that caused harm. Accordingly, Defendant California Rehabilitation Institute, LLC and Select Hospitals Investors, LP’s Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED with thirty (30) days leave to amend. Plaintiff Robert Johnson, Individually and as Heir and Successor-in-Interest to Patricia Johnson, Deceased, may amend his complaint only as authorized by the Court’s order and may not amend the complaint to add a new party or cause of action without having obtained permission to do so. (Harris v. Wachovia Mortgage, FSB (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023.)