 Case Number:  22STCV05768    Hearing Date:   April 15, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


April
  15, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV05768




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Jesus Sanchez




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the petition
filed April 8, 2024 to Approve Compromise of Pending Action of a Minor, Jayleen Sanchez, age 12. The
Court denies the petition without prejudice for the following reasons. 
 
Claimant was involved in a rear-end motor vehicle
accident, experienced neck and back pain, and received chiropractic treatment.
The medical records in attachment 8 show that Claimant’s last examination
occurred on March 15, 2021. However, the report from that date shows that
Claimant was not completely recovered. The tests performed indicated a left and
right muscular strain, although Claimant rated her pain in her neck and back as
1 out of 10. The report anticipated a complete recovery. Therefore, Petitioner
must provide a more recent medical record or report or other evidence
confirming that Claimant is fully recovered from her injuries. 
 
In this revised petition, Petitioner now includes values
in 12b(2), indicating reimbursement to a private health insurance plan.
However, item 12b(5) indicates that reimbursement for all medical expenses will
be to a single provider, Elite Sports Medicine. If this is correct, then
Petitioner must not provide values in item 12b(2). 
 
In the proposed order MC-351, $701.18
should be in item 8a(2) instead. 
 
Accordingly, the Court denies the petition without
prejudice.
 
Petitioner shall give notice and file a
proof of service of such.
 