 Case Number:  23STCV11541    Hearing Date:   April 15, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


April
  15, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV11541




MOTIONS:  


Compel
  Further Responses to Form Interrogatories




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Tamera Pinelo




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Jorge Carlos Castro 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Tamera Pinelo (Plaintiff) moves to compel further responses
from Defendant Jorge Carlos Castro (Defendant) to Form Interrogatories, Set One.
Plaintiff also seeks monetary sanctions. Defendant opposes. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
The
Court’s Eighth Amended Standing Order for Procedures in the Personal Injury Hub
requires counsel to participate in an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”)
before the Court will hear any motion to compel further responses to discovery.
(See Eighth Amended Standing Order for Procedures in the Personal Injury Hub §
9E.) Plaintiff asserts that Defendant’s counsel refused to engage in an IDC.
(Dayen Decl. ¶ 8, Exh. F.) However, there is no indication that Plaintiff filed
an IDC statement with the Court or reserved a date. 
 
The
Court therefore denies the motion as procedurally defective. Accordingly, the
Court also denies Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court denies the motion to compel further discovery
responses and denies the requests for sanctions. 
 
Plaintiff is ordered to provide notice of the Court’s orders and file
a proof of service of such.