 Case Number:  24SMCV01152    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Cho v. Trader Joes, Case No.
24SMCV01152
Hearing Date October 1, 2024
Defendant Trader Joe’s Demurrer to Complaint with Motion to
Strike Attorney’s Fees and Punitive Damages
Plaintiff Cho sues his former
employer defendant Trader Joe’s for breach of contract and tortious breach of
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. After plaintiff organized an
alcohol tasting on defendant’s property, defendant terminated him. Defendant
demurs to the claims for breach of contract and breach of implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing, arguing failure to state sufficient facts.
Defendant also moves to strike requests for attorney’s fees, costs, and
punitive damages. 
Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice
Defendant requests judicial notice
of a July 16, 2024 Order Sustaining Demurrer in the
matter entitled Jorge Rodriguez v. Trader
Joe’s
Company, Los Angeles Superior Court Case
Number 24SMCV01221. The court may take judicial notice of “records
of…any court of this state.” Cal. Evid. Code §452(d). Judicial notice is
properly requested as to the fact of the order, but not as to the facts
alleged. GRANTED.
Defendant’s Demurrer
“The function of a demurrer is to
test the sufficiency of the complaint as a matter of law.” Holiday Matinee, Inc. v. Rambus, Inc. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 1413,
1420. A complaint “is sufficient if it alleges ultimate rather than evidentiary
facts” Doe v. City of Los Angeles
(2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550, but plaintiff must set forth the essential facts of
the case “with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficient to
acquaint [the] defendant with the nature, source and extent” of the plaintiff’s
claim. Doheny Park Terrace Homeowners
Ass’n., Inc. v. Truck Ins. Exchange (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 1076, 1099. In
reviewing the legal sufficiency of a complaint against a demurrer, a court will
treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded. Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318; C & H Foods Co. v. Hartford Ins.
Co. (1984) 163 Cal.App.3d 1055, 1062. 
First COA: Breach of Contract
Labor Code §2922 provides that an
employment, having no specified term, may be terminated at the will of either
party on notice to the other. Employment for a specified term means an
employment for a period greater than one month. The at-will presumption may be
overcome by evidence that the employer and employee impliedly agreed to
termination only for cause. Camp v.
Jeffer, Mangels, Butler & Marmaro (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 620, 629. The
existence of an implied contract to discharge only for good cause is normally a
factual question for the trier of fact. Haycock
v. Hughes Aircraft Co. (1994) 22 Cal.App.4th 1473, 1490, citing Foley v. Interactive Data Corp. (1988)
47 Cal.3d 654, 677, 680, 682.
Defendant argues plaintiff does not
allege sufficient facts to show an employment contract existed or that a breach
occurred. Plaintiff alleges :
¿      
The acts that are the
subject of this complaint began on or about 03/02/2022. At that time, CHO was a
"mate" which meant he was a member of supervision. Compl. para. 6.
¿      
Plaintiff was hired by
Traders Joes in approximately 1997. Compl. para. 11.
¿      
During the course of
plaintiff’s employment with defendant, there existed an express and implied in
fact employment contract between plaintiff and defendant. Compl. para. 13.
¿      
Plaintiff would be able
to continue his employment with defendant indefinitely so long as he carried
out his duties in a proper and competent manner. Compl. para. 13(a).
¿       This total employment contract was evidenced by various written
documents, oral representations to plaintiff by defendant's agents and
employees, and the parties’ entire course of conduct. Compl. para. 14.
¿      
Plaintiff is informed
that portions of this contract are embodied in defendant's written policies and
discipline procedures. Compl. para. 14(a).
¿      
As independent
consideration, plaintiff refrained from seeking other employment . Compl. para.
15.
¿      
Despite representations
made to plaintiff and the reliance he placed on them, defendant failed to carry
out its responsibilities under the terms of the employment contract. Compl.
para. 17.
Defendant is correct that plaintiff
failed to plead particular facts sufficient to establish a claim for breach of
contract. Plaintiff alleges existence of an express employment contract and an
implied employment contract. Plaintiff pleads no facts that specifically
demonstrate existence of an express employment contract, simply alleging “this
total employment contract was evidenced by various written documents.” Compl.
para. 14. This is not sufficient to allege a written contract.
Plaintiff alleges an implied
employment contract but fails to state who allegedly made “oral
representations” that would create an implied contract. Nor does plaintiff
allege senior management or anyone he should have reasonably relied on made
such representations. Compl. para. 14.
Plaintiff fails to allege any
particular terms of this implied employment contract.“So long as he carried out
his duties in a proper and competent manner” does not sufficiently establish a
basis for an implied employment contract. Compl. para. 13(a). Further,
plaintiff does not allege what responsibilities defendant may have had under
the alleged contract, such as wages, leave or promotions. Plaintiff fails to
allege all facts necessary to support existence of an implied employment
contract. SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
Second COA: Breach of Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
“[A]llegations which assert [a
breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing] claim must show that
the conduct of the defendant, whether or not it also constitutes breach of
consensual contract term, demonstrates failure or refusal to discharge
contractual responsibilities, prompted not by an honest mistake, bad judgment
or negligence but rather by conscious and deliberate act, which unfairly
frustrates the agreed common purposes and disappoints the reasonable
expectations of the other party thereby depriving that party of the benefits of
the agreement.” Careau & Co. v.
Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1395.
“If the allegations do not go beyond the statement of mere contract breach and,
relying on the same alleged acts, simply seek the same damages or other relief
already claimed in companion contract cause of action, they may be disregarded
as superfluous as no additional claim is actually stated.” Id.
Defendant argues plaintiff has not
pled facts sufficient to find a breach of the implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing. The court agrees. While a COA for breach of the covenant will
necessarily arise out of some of the same allegations as a COA for breach of
contract, plaintiff does not allege any facts to indicate that his second COA
is anything other than duplicative of the first. 
Plaintiff asserts his breach of
contract COA arises out of defendant’s termination of him for taking part in
the alcohol tasting. Plaintiff asserts defendant’s alleged breach of covenant
of good faith and fair dealing arises from the same incident. Both COAs arise
from the same set of facts, and rely on the same alleged wrongdoing. Plaintiff
cannot seek damages for breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing when
he has sought relief from the exact same wrongdoing in another COA; that is
duplicative. SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
Defendant’s Motion to Strike
To obtain punitive damages,
plaintiff must prove oppression, fraud or malice. Cal. Civ. Code §3294(a).
Facts giving rise to a claim for punitive damages must be pleaded specifically
– vague or conclusory allegations are insufficient. G.D. Searle & Company v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d
22, 29. Conclusory requests for punitive damages without factual support are
subject to a motion to strike. E.g., Cyrus v. Haveson (1976) 65 Cal.App.3d
306, 316-317; Grieves v. Superior Court
(1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 164. 
Plaintiff seeks punitive damages and
fees. Defendant argues plaintiff failed to cite authority allowing recovery of
attorney’s fees (e.g., Civil Code 1717) and punitive damages are not
recoverable in breach of contract claims. 
Plaintiff does not contest
defendant’s argument regarding attorney’s fees on opposition, and such are
STRICKEN.
Plaintiff argues punitive damages
are allowed in discrimination, harassment, and retaliation cases if plaintiff
proves by clear and convincing evidence that "an officer, director, or
managing agent" of a corporation personally engaged in oppressive,
fraudulent, or malicious conduct, or "authorized or ratified" that
conduct. Civ. Code §3294(b). Plaintiff has made no such allegations nor
asserted a claim for discrimination, harassment, or retaliation. Punitive
damages are STRICKEN.