 Case Number:  23SMCV03683    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Blue Rider v. War Paint, Case No. 23SMCV03683
Hearing date October 1, 2024
Plaintiff’s
Motion for Assignment Order
Plaintiff
Blue Rider Media Finance, LLC sued defendants 13 Films, LLC, War Paint Movie,
LLC and Greg Schenz for breach of contract. The parties settled via a
stipulated money judgement. Plaintiff has not received payment and moves for an
order assigning all accounts, account receivables, rights to payment of money,
contingent rights, contract rights, deposits and deposit accounts, claims
against third parties, monies due from third parties, due and in favor of and
for the benefit of defendants pursuant to Cal. Civ. Proc. §708.510. 
Plaintiff
also moves for an order restraining defendants from the sale, alienation,
mortgage, lien, encumbrance, advancement, cashing or negotiation or receipt or
exploitation of any of the rights of payment sought to be assigned as permitted
under Cal. Civ. Proc. §708.520. 
Defendants
have not filed an opposition. 
Cal.
Code Civ. Proc. §708.510 provides "the court may order the judgment debtor
to assign to the judgment creditor…all or part of a right to payment due or to
become due.” In assessing whether an order of assignment is proper, the Court
may consider all relevant facts, including: "(1) The reasonable
requirements of a judgment debtor who is a natural person and of persons
supported in whole or in part by the judgment debtor. (2) Payments the judgment
debtor is required to make or that are deducted in satisfaction of other
judgments and wage assignments, including earnings assignment orders for
support. (3) The Amount remaining due on the money judgment. (4) The amount
being or to be received in satisfaction of the right to payment that may be
assigned." Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §708.510(c). 
The
judgement was $3,984,500; inclusive of interest, the judgement is now over
$4,000,000. Plaintiff is due payment, which is owed. Defendants failed to
comply with the court’s order for post-judgement discovery, making it
impossible for plaintiffs to accurately identify the specific amounts each
defendant ought to be paying. Based on these factors and defendants’ failure to
oppose, the motion is GRANTED.