 Case Number:  24SMCV00772    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Sunset Group v. Lionscove Fund, Case
no. 24SMCV00772
Hearing date October 1, 2024
Plaintiffs’ Counsel Shapero’s Motion to be Relieved 
Defendant EF Mortgage’s Demurrer to FAC
Plaintiffs Sunset Group and Campbell
sue defendants Lionscove Fund 1, LLC and EF Mortgage for breach of contract,
breach of good faith and fair dealing, and violation of Bus. Prof. Code §17200.
Plaintiffs allege defendants made a mortgage to plaintiffs to be disbursed as
construction funds and have not made the distributions as contracted, instead
foreclosing on the mortgaged property. Plaintiffs allege defendants conspired
to stall disbursements of the construction funds to engineer the foreclosure.
Plaintiffs seek injunctive relief, disgorgement and damages. 
Plaintiffs’ counsel Sarah Shapero
moves to be relieved as counsel. 
Defendant EF Mortgage demurs,
arguing failure to state a cause of action, and as to the FAC in its entirety
as to plaintiff Campbell on the grounds of judicial estoppel. Defendant EF
Mortgage also requests judicial notice. 
Shapero’s Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel for Sunset Group & Campbell
An application to be relieved as
counsel must be made on judicial council form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and
Motion) per Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(a), MC-052 (Declaration) per CRC
rule 3.1362(c), and MC-053 (Proposed Order) per CRC rule 3.1362(e).¿ The
proposed order must specify all hearing dates scheduled in the action or
proceeding, including the date of trial, if known. CRC rule 3.1362(e).
Plaintiffs’ counsel Shapero states
there has been a breakdown in relations between the Shapero Law Firm and
plaintiffs, and plaintiffs have breached their retainer agreement with counsel.
Decl. in Supp. p. 1. Counsel declares they have served plaintiffs via mail and
submitted the necessary declarations to satisfy CRC rule 3.1362. Decl. in Supp.
p. 1. Counsel filed a proposed order 8/1/2024 that specified the necessary
hearing dates, and trial has not been set. Counsel has met all the requirements
under CRC rule 3.1362. GRANTED. 
As an individual, Campbell may
represent himself in pro per or may retain counsel. As an entity, Sunset Group,
LLC cannot represent itself. The court will set an OSC re failure to obtain
counsel as to Sunset Group in 30-60 days.
Defendant EF Mortgage’s Request for
Judicial Notice
Cal. Evid. Code §452(h) provides a
court may take judicial notice of “facts and propositions that are not
reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate
determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.” Section
452(d)(2) allows the court to take judicial notice of records in any court of
record or of publicly recorded documents. Defendant EF Mortgage requests
judicial notice of the following:
¿      
Notice of Default and
Election to Sell Under Deed of Trust recorded on September 27, 2023 in the
Official Records of Los Angeles County, instrument #20230650599,
¿      
Notice of Trustee’s Sale
recorded on January 3, 2024 in the Official Records of Los Angeles County,
instrument #20240003475,
¿      
Voluntary Petition for
Individuals Filing for Bankruptcy filed in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the
Central District of California in the matter In re: Daron C. Campbell, Case No. 1:24-bk-10941MB on June 11,
2024,
¿      
Schedules filed in the
U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Central District of California in the matter In re: Daron C. Campbell, Case No.
1:24-bk-10941-MB on June 21, 2024.
GRANTED.
Defendant EF Mortgage’s Demurrer to
FAC
“The function of a demurrer is to
test the sufficiency of the complaint as a matter of law.” Holiday Matinee, Inc. v. Rambus, Inc. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 1413,
1420. A complaint “is sufficient if it alleges ultimate rather than evidentiary
facts” Doe v. City of Los Angeles
(2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550, but plaintiff must set forth the essential facts of
the case “with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficient to
acquaint [the] defendant with the nature, source and extent” of the plaintiff’s
claim. Doheny Park Terrace Homeowners
Ass’n., Inc. v. Truck Ins. Exchange (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 1076, 1099. In
reviewing the legal sufficiency of a complaint against a demurrer, a court will
treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded. Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318; C & H Foods Co. v. Hartford Ins.
Co. (1984) 163 Cal.App.3d 1055, 1062.
Defendant EF Mortgage argues failure
to state a claim and judicial estoppel as to plaintiff Campbell. 
Plaintiff Campbell as Necessary
Party
Defendant EF argues plaintiff
Campbell has not alleged facts or causes of action against defendant EF. The
FAC states “only borrower” seeks relief against defendant EF. FAC paras. 51-59,
60-71, 72-78. Defendant EF argues only plaintiff Sunset Group alleged facts
sufficient to establish the alleged causes of action, so the demurrer should be
sustained as to plaintiff Campbell. 
Plaintiffs argue Campbell is a
necessary party. A necessary party is one subject to service of process and
whose joinder will not deprive the court of jurisdiction over the subject
matter of the action. Such shall be joined as a party if (1) in their absence,
complete relief cannot be accorded among those already parties or (2) they
claim an interest relating to the subject of the action and is so situated that
the disposition of the action in his absence may (i) as a practical matter
impair or impede his ability to protect that interest or (ii) leave any of the
persons already parties subject to a substantial risk of incurring double,
multiple, or otherwise inconsistent obligations by reason of his claimed
interest. Campbell is titleholder of the property, and this action arises out
of an alleged breach of contract that resulted in the property being foreclosed
upon. Campbell is a necessary party.
First COA – Breach of Contract
The elements of a cause of action
for breach of contract are (1) existence of a contract; (2) plaintiff’s
performance or excuse for nonperformance; (3) defendant’s breach, and (4)
damages.  Oasis W. Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal. 4th 811, 821. 
Defendant EF argues plaintiffs fail
to allege facts sufficient to establish that EF breached any agreement.
Defendant is correct; plaintiffs only specifically allege defendant EF hired
agents to inspect the property, and those agents engaged in misconduct. FAC
para. 22. Plaintiffs do not allege facts establishing an agreement between them
and defendant EF, nor do they allege specific facts alleging a breach of
contract claim.
Plaintiffs argue defendant Lionscove
transferred the original mortgage between itself and plaintiffs to defendant EF
but continued to communicate with plaintiffs regarding disbursements. FAC para.
21. Plaintiffs argue defendants conspired to delay disbursements under the loan
agreement. Id. While these
allegations support an alleged breach by defendant Lionscove, plaintiff has not
alleged existence of a contract between plaintiffs and defendant EF. Plaintiffs
must allege facts that support all elements of this cause of action as to each
defendant, but failed to do so regarding the breach of contract claim against
EF. SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.s
Second COA – Breach of Implied
Covenant of Good Faith & Fair Dealing
Every contract contains an “implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing” that the parties will not do anything
that “will injure the right of the other to receive the benefits” of the
contract.  Gruenberg v. Aetna Ins. Co. (1973) 9 Cal.3d 566, 573.  The nature and extent of the covenant “will
depend on the contractual purposes.”  Egan v. Mutual of Omaha Ins. Co. (1979)
24 Cal.3d 809, 818.  The implied covenant
cannot impose obligations that go beyond the scope of the contract’s express
terms.  Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 327.
Plaintiffs failed to allege facts
establishing a contract or breach thereof between plaintiffs and defendant EF.
Plaintiffs must allege a contract and breach to allege that defendant EF
breached the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND.
Third COA - UCL
California's Unfair Competition Law
("UCL") prohibits "any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business
act or practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising."
Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code §17200. An act violates the UCL if it is
"unlawful," "unfair" or "fraudulent." Rubio v. Capital One Bank (9th Cir.
2010) 613 F.3d 1195, 1203. To state a claim under the UCL's unfairness prong, a
plaintiff must show either (1) "a practice that undermines a legislatively
declared policy or threatens competition," or (2) "a practice that
has an impact on its alleged victim that outweighs the reasons, justifications,
and motives of the alleged wrongdoer." Lozano
v. AT&T Wireless Servs., Inc. (9th Cir. 2007) 504 F.3d 718, 736. 
Plaintiffs allege defendants
conspired to purposefully delay disbursements of construction funds through the
misconduct of their inspecting agents. FAC para. 21. As alleged, this practice
threatens competition and has an alleged impact on its victims that outweighs
the motivations of the alleged wrongdoers. Plaintiffs allege harm via
additional interest payments on the mortgage, lowered value on the projected
sale of the project and foreclosure. FAC paras 47-48. These allegations satisfy
the unfairness prong of the UCL claim. DENIED.
Judicial Estoppel as to the entire
FAC with regard to Campbell
When a debtor files for bankruptcy,
the filing of a petition creates an estate comprised of “all legal or equitable
interests of the debtor in property as of the commencement of the case.” 11
U.S.C. §541(a)(1). As such, the Bankruptcy Code and the Federal Rules of
Bankruptcy Procedure impose upon bankruptcy debtors “an express, affirmative
duty to disclose all assets, including contingent and unliquidated claims.” Hamilton v. State Farm Fire & Cas. Co.
(9th Cir. 2001) 270 F.3d 778, 785. This duty requires disclosure of all
potential causes of action, even if the debtor does not know all of the facts
or the legal basis for the cause of action. Id.
at 784. 
In deciding whether to judicially
estop a claimant and preclude a claim or cause of action, the court may
consider: “[f]irst, a party’s later position must be “clearly inconsistent”
with its earlier position. [Citation.] Second, courts regularly inquire whether
the party has succeeded in persuading a court to accept that party’s earlier
position, so that judicial acceptance of an inconsistent position in a later
proceeding would create the ‘perception that either the first or second court
was misled,’ [citation], and thus no threat to judicial integrity. [Citation.]
A third consideration is whether the party seeking to assert an inconsistent
position would derive an unfair advantage or impose an unfair detriment on the
opposing party if not estopped. [Citation.]” New Hampshire v. Maine (2001) 532 U.S. 742, 743.
Defendant EF argues that in the
bankruptcy, plaintiff Campbell expressly admitted he possessed no claims
against EF Mortgage in his bankruptcy schedules. Schedules at p. 10, nos.
33-34. Defendant EF argues that because Campbell took the position he had no
claims against EF, and because Campbell received an automatic stay when the
bankruptcy was filed and received a benefit from those positions, Campbell is
now judicially estopped from bringing claims against defendant EF.
Plaintiffs argue “before invoking
the doctrine of judicial estoppel, the record [should] show that … the
bankruptcy court accepted the [earlier position] as true and granted relief on
that basis.” Gottlieb v. Kest (Cal.
2nd Dist. 2006) 141 Cal. App. 4th 110, 137. Plaintiffs correctly note an
automatic stay pursuant to filing for bankruptcy is not a form of relief based
on an earlier position, as it is automatic on filing and does not rely on a
specific position. Id. at 144. 
Defendants also argue that, as the
bankruptcy was filed after this lawsuit was initiated, there is no legitimate
reason for Campbell to have failed to disclose any potential claims he has
against defendant EF. Plaintiffs argue defendants offer no evidence that
Campbell intended to defraud the court or the bankruptcy proceedings.
Plaintiffs argue that whether Campbell intended fraud or not is a factual
matter intended for trial, and is not appropriate upon demurrer. The court
agrees. 
Plaintiffs’ initial lawsuit, which
did not name defendant EF, was filed 2/20/2024. Campbell filed for bankruptcy
on 6/11/2024 and filed his bankruptcy schedules on 6/21/2024. Plaintiffs filed
the FAC, which named defendant EF as a defendant, on 6/10/2024. 
There is a question as to why
Campbell did not disclose his alleged claims against defendant EF in the
schedules, as he had at least 11 days in which he was aware of said claims
prior to filing. This is a question of fact which cannot be decided upon demurrer.
DENIED.
 
Plaintiff to have 20 days leave to
amend.