  Case Number:  23CHCV02339    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  F49 


Dept.
  F-49¿ 




Date:
  6/7/24




Case
  Name:  Timothy James Dolan v. Scott
  Andrew Peterson, and Does 1 through 25




Case
  # 23CHCV02339



 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT F-49
 

JUNE 7, 2024
 

APPLICATION DETERMINATION OF
GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT (C.C.P. Section 877.6(a)(2)); MOTION TO CONTEST

Los Angeles Superior
Court Case No. 23CHCV02339

 
Motion
filed: 2/13/23
 
MOVING PARTY: Cross-Defendant Hoa T. Duong (“Duong”
or “Cross-Defendant”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant Scott Andrew Peterson
(“Peterson” or “Defendant”)
NOTICE: OK.¿¿¿ 
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: Cross-Defendant’s
application requires an order determining that the settlement entered into
between Plaintiff, Timothy James Dolan, and Duong in the underlying Case No.
23CHCV00241 was made in good faith under Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6,
subdivision (a)(2). Defendant’s Motion seeks to contest the good faith
settlement.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The application
is DENIED. The motion to contest is GRANTED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action arises from an alleged three-party motor vehicle
accident that occurred on December 6, 2022, on the Northbound I-5 Freeway North
of Hasley Canyon Road, in an unincorporated area in the City of Castaic, County
of Los Angeles (the “Accident”).
 
Before the filing of this action, Plaintiff sued Cross-Defendant,
Duong, in the underlying Case of Timothy James Dolan v. Hoa T. Duong,
Case No. 23CHCV00241, alleging personal injuries arising from the Accident,
during which Plaintiff and Duong reached a settlement. (Siepler Decl., ¶¶ 3-4.)
Subsequently, a dismissal of Case No. 23CHCV00241 was filed on August 1, 2023. 
 
On August 4, 2023, Plaintiff filed his Complaint against Defendant,
Peterson for general negligence, alleging personal injuries arising from the
same Accident. Subsequently, Peterson filed his Answer to the Complaint on November
9, 2023.
 
            On the
same day, November 9, 2023, Peterson filed a Cross-Complaint against Duong and
Andrew Duong (“Andrew”), alleging three causes of action: (1) indemnification,
(2) apportionment of fault, and (3) declaratory relief. Subsequently, on
January 18, 2024, Duong and Andrew filed their respective Answers to the
Cross-Complaint on January 18, and February 13, 2024, respectively.
 
            On
February 13, 2024, Duong filed the instant Application for Determination of
Good Faith Settlement (the “Application”). 
 
Subsequently, on March 7, 2024, Peterson filed a notice of
motion to contest the good faith settlement. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6, subdivision (a)(2)
provides, in pertinent part, that “a settling party may give notice of
settlement to all parties and to the court, together with an application for
determination of good faith settlement and a proposed order. The application
shall indicate the settling parties, and the basis, terms, and amount of the
settlement. The notice, application, and proposed order shall be given by
certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service. Proof of service
shall be filed with the court. Within 25 days of the mailing of the notice,
application, and proposed order, or within 20 days of personal service, a
nonsettling party may file a notice of motion to contest the good faith of the
settlement.”
 
The determination as to whether a settlement is in good faith is a
matter left to the discretion of the trial court.” (Mattco Forge,
Inc. v. Arthur Young & Co. (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1349
(Mattco).)
 
A.   
Motion to
Contest is Timely
 
The Court determines that
Peterson’s Motion to Contest the Good Faith of the Settlement, filed on March
7, 2024 (the “Motion”) is timely, as it was filed within 25 days of the mailing
of Cross-Defendant’s Application, within the statutory time period under Code
of Civil Procedure section 877.6, subdivision (a)(2). 
 
B.    
Determination
of Good Faith Settlement
 
1.     
Applicability
of Code of Civil Procedure Section 877.6
 
Here, Peterson contends that despite being sued by
Plaintiff, he is not a joint tortfeasor with Duong who should be liable for 100
percent of the damage. Peterson argues that this settlement does not fall
within Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6 which applies to an action in
which it is alleged to have two or more joint tortfeasors or co-obligors.
(Mot., at p. 3.) The Court disagrees.
 
The Court first notes that Peterson’s argument solely
relies on a legal conclusion that he bears no liability and disregards the
terms of the code itself, which states that it applies when “... it is alleged
that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors.” (See Code of Civ. Proc., §
877.6, subd. (a).) (Underlines added.) The Court of Appeal in Wilshire Ins.
Co. v. Tuff Boy Holding, Inc. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 627 (Wilshire),
clarified that “[t]his language... reflects that there must be some party in
the case who is not a party to the settlement for which trial court
confirmation is being sought” even if the tortfeasors were names defendants in
different proceedings at different times. (Id., at p. 640.) In Wilshire,
plaintiffs were heirs of automobile accident victims. They sued and reached a
settlement with the insurer of the other driver, Wilshire Insurance Company.
Later, the plaintiff in that case amended their complaint adding the
manufacturer of the trailer, Tuff Boy Holding, Inc. as a defendant, under the
theories of negligence and product liability. The Wilshire Court found,
“Here, there were two parties who were alleged to be joint tortfeasors –
Campbel [the plaintiff] (in which shoes Wilshire stands) and Tuff Boy. Campbell
(Wilshire) was not a party to the settlement between the Cline plaintiffs and
Tuff boy.... When we independently examine section 877.6 and its goals, we
conclude the trial court correctly applied the statute[.]” (Ibid.)
 
Here, like the situation in Wilshire, Plaintiff
alleges that Duong and Peterson both were tortfeasors to his damages, although
the allegations arise from two separate proceedings. It is evident that
Peterson is an “alleged” joint tortfeasor under the meaning of Code of Civil
Procedure section 877.6, and the ultimate deposition of each’s respective
liability, even if none, has no bearing on the issue of application of the
section 877.6 before us.
 
Consequently, the Court concludes that Plaintiff
properly submitted his Application under Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6.
             
2.     
Tech-Bilt
Factors
 
Peterson further argues that
based upon analysis of the factors set forth in Tech-Bilt, Inc. v.
Woodward-Clyde & Associates¿(1985) 38 Cal.3d 488 (Tech-Bilt),
the Court should also deny the Application. (Mot., at pp. 4-7.) The Court next
turns to examining these factors.
 
The California Supreme Court
held in Tech-Bilt that the
trial court’s determination of good faith is based on “a number of factors,”
including “[1] a rough approximation of
plaintiffs’ total recovery and the settlor’s proportionate liability, [2] the
amount paid in settlement, [3] the allocation of settlement proceeds among
plaintiffs, . . . [4] a recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement
than he would if he were found liable after a trial. . . [5] the financial
conditions and insurance policy limits of settling defendants, as well as [6]
the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the
interests of nonsettling defendants.” ¿(Tech-Bilt, supra,
at p. 499; see also Far West
Financial Corp. v. D&S Co.¿(1988) 46 Cal.3d 796, 816, fn. 16 [expanding
on Tech-Bilt factors].) “[W]hen the good faith nature of a settlement is
disputed, it is incumbent upon the trial court to consider and weigh the Tech-Bilt
factors.” (City of Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d
1251, 1261 (City of Grand Terrace).
 
i.                   
Rough
Proximation and Settling Defendant’s Proportionate Liability
 
 The
first Tech–Bilt factor, which consists of two parts: a
rough approximation of the plaintiff’s total recovery and the settling
defendant’s proportionate liability. (Cahill v. San
Diego Gas & Electric Co. (App. 4 Dist. 2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 939,
962 (Cahill).)
 
When approximating a plaintiff’s total recovery or the
settling defendant’s proportionate liability, “judges should . . . not yearn
for the unreal goal of mathematical certainty.¿ Because the application of
section 877.6 requires an educated guess as to what may occur should the case
go to trial, all that can be expected is an estimate, not a definitive
conclusion.”¿ (North County Contractor’s Assn. v. Touchstone Ins. Services (1994)
27 Cal.App.4th 1085, 1090.)
 
Furthermore, the defendant's settlement figure must not be
grossly disproportionate to what a reasonable person, at the time of the
settlement, would estimate the settling defendant's liability to be. (Dole Food Co., Inc. v. Superior Court (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 894, 909.)  After the court first makes a rough
approximation of the total amount the plaintiff is likely to recover, the court
then determines what, if any, the settling defendant’s proportionate share of
that total recovery would be, and then determines whether the settlement amount
was “within the ballpark” of reasonable settlement amounts based on the first
two factors.” (Ibid.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff does not claim a specific damage amount in the Complaint. To aid the
Court in estimating the Plaintiff’s potential total recovery, Peterson presents
evidence that Plaintiff, Mr. Dolan, has identified his alleged injuries, in
response to Peterson’s Form Interrogatories, Set One, inquiring about the same,
to include, “Broken sternum, broken neck, spine, lower back pain and problems
with left hand in strength, numbness, and weakness. Generalized anxiety is
characterized by pain, fear, mental suffering, loss of enjoyment of life, and
generalized emotional distress.” (Mot., at p. 4) 
 
Moreover,
Dolan identified medical services and charges to date as: “American Medical
Response, $2,833.00; Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital, $63,459.97; Nicolas
Jain, MD/Center for Pain Control, $1,750.00; Kern Radiology Medical Group,
Inc., $1,278.00.” (Mot., at p. 4.)
 
Furthermore,
Dolan stated in his response that future and additional treatment are required,
including “(a) Dr. Russ Shimizu, MD, 2811 Wilshire Blvd. #550, Santa Monica, CA
90403 (310) 829-5968; (b) Neck Surgery; and (c) Cost unknown; and (a) Dr.
Nicolas Jain, MD, Center for Pain Control, 2701 Chester Avenue, Suite 102,
Bakersfield, CA 93301 (818) 923-5440, (b) Neck Surgery; and (c) Cost Unknown.”
(Mot., at p. 5.)
 
Peterson
argues that although an accurate estimate of damage is unavailable at the
moment, the settlement amount of $50,000 pales in comparison with the potential
judgment for the injuries of Plaintiff. 
 
The
Court notes that the approximation needs to be made as to at the time of the
settlement. It acknowledges that these pieces of information were acquired in
Plaintiff’s response to Peterson’s Form Interrogatories, Set One, as of January
23, 2024 (Mot., at p. 4), whereas the settlement in the underlying case was
reached and a release of all claims was executed by Plaintiff on June 26, 2023.
(Siepler Decl., ¶ 5.) Considering the proximity of the timeframe and the
absence of any evidence from applicant Duong regarding records in the
underlying case, the Court cannot reasonably infer that Plaintiff held a significantly
different perspective on potential damage at the time of the settlement. Based
on the available information and its own judicial experience, the Court
determines that the settlement of $50,000 appears to be insubstantial in
relation to the total recovery.
 
Moreover,
Peterson argues that Duong’s settlement amount is grossly disproportionate to
what a reasonable person would estimate her liability to be. He claims that
Duong is 100 percent liable for Plaintiff’s injuries based on the information
reported on the Traffic Crash Report # 9540-2022-02652 by California Highway
Patrol officer B.E. Kellog #022378 (“Officer Kellog”). In essence, Officer
Kellog reported his on-scene investigation as follows:
 
1.     
Cross-Defendant
Duong was driving a 2020 Volkswagen Jetta (the “Jetta”) in the #1 of four lanes
when she felt a bump. So she turned on her hazard lights and stopped in the #1
lane. She placed the vehicle in park and exited to investigate what had
happened. While standing outside her vehicle, she observed that she had a flat
tire, and that traffic was going fast around her. As she observed multiple
vehicles nearly colliding with her vehicle, and then observed that Plaintiff’s
vehicle and Defendant Peterson’s vehicle collided with her Jetta. Duong’s Jetta
had a flat tire which was unrelated to the crash, and the vehicle could have
easily been driven from the roadway.
 
2.     
Defendant
Peterson was driving a 2005 Ford F150 (“F-150”) in the #1 lane when he observed
the vehicle in front of him swerving into the #2 lane and then observed the
vehicle of Duong stopped in the #1 lane. He applied his brakes and came to a
complete stop a few feet from the Duong’s Jetta. He then felt an impact to the rear
of his vehicle which caused it to be pushed forward and collide with the rear
of the Duong’s Jetta. Peterson's F-150 sustained moderate damage as a result of
this crash.
 
3.     
Plaintiff
Dolan was driving a 2017 Lincoln MKZ (the “MKZ”) when he observed vehicles in
front of him swerving into the #2 lane. When he then observed Peterson’s F-150
stopped in the #1 lane, he applied his brakes but was unable to stop before
experiencing an impact to the front of his MKZ. Dolan’s MKZ sustained major
damage as a result of this crash.
 
(Hagemann Decl., ¶ Ex. “A.”)
 
¿           Based on the only factual information available before the
Court and its own judicial experience, the Court rationally concludes that a
reasonable person could find that as compared to Peterson’s liability, Duong’s
negligence was likely the primary, if not sole, cause of Dolan’s injuries,
thereby reducing, if not eliminating, the potential judgment against Peterson.
 
            Accordingly,
based on the records before it, the Court does not find that the analysis of
the first Tech-Bilt factor can be said to be in favor of the determination of
good faith settlement. 
 
            Furthermore, case
law has established that “[p]otential liability for indemnity to a nonsettling
defendant is an important consideration” for the trial court in determining
good faith settlement under Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6. (West v.
Superior Court (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 1625, 1636-1637 (West).) In West,
the home buyer plaintiff there brought an action against the seller and their
real estate broker, alleging that they failed to disclose subsidence problems.
The West court reversed the trial court’s grant of broker’s motion under
section 877.6, seeking determination of its settlement with home buyer was made
in good faith, thereby barring the cross-complaint of the sellers against the
broker for comparative indemnity and implied indemnity. The West Court held
that the trial should consider the culpability of the broker and their
potential liability for indemnity to the sellers and stated that shielding the
brokers with immunity from the cross-complaints of the sellers “neither serves
the goal of encouraging settlement among all interested parties nor promotes
the goal of equitable allocation among multiple tortfeasors.” (West, supra,
27 Cal. App. 4th at p. 1636.)
 
            Mirroring the
situation in West, here, Duong seeks determination of good faith
settlement in order to bar the cross-complaint of Peterson. The Court finds
that in addition to her proportionate share of what the total damage may be,
Duong’s potential liability for indemnity also strongly weighs against the
determination of good faith settlement.
 
            Therefore, the first
Tech-Bilt fact does not support the determination of good faith settlement.
            
ii.                 
Settling Defendant’s
Financial Condition
 
In regard to
the factorial approach of Tech-Bilt,
the only factors stated to assess the settling
defendant’s financial condition were the amount of the settlement and the
policy limits. However, the Court of Appeal in City of Grand Terrace, supra,
held that “it was an abuse of
discretion for the trial court to find a good faith settlement in that there
was insufficient evidence presented on the issues of settlor's financial
condition and insurance coverage.” (City of Grand Terrace, supra,
192 Cal.App.3d, at p. 1264.)
 
Here, Peterson
asserts that there was insufficient evidence presented by Duong as to her
financial condition and the availability of any additional insurance policy
held by the registered owner of the vehicle that was involved in the accident,
her son Andrew Duong, both of which could have been added to the pot, if
available, to make up her proportionate share in the settlement. (Mot., at p.
7.) As to this contention, the Court agrees.
 
Accordingly,
the Court determines that the analysis of this factor is also against the
determination of the good faith settlement.
 
iii.               
The
Existence of Collusion, Fraud, or Tortious Conduct Aimed to Injure the
Interests of Nonsettling Defendants
 
The “existence
of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of
nonsettling defendants” is another relevant consideration. (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at 499.)
 
Peterson
argues that if a party enters into a disproportionately low settlement with the
plaintiff solely to obtain immunity, the inference that the settlement was not
made in good faith is difficult to avoid, citing Mattco, supra.
 
            Notably,
the Court distinguished this factor from the first Tech-Bilt factor which
focuses on the approximation and proportionality, treating them independently. Peterson’s
contention seems to imply that failure to satisfy the first factor of Tech-Bilt
necessarily leads to the conclusion that it must fail another factor for
nonexistence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the
interests of the nonsettling party. 
 
            Here, there is no
evidence of “the existence of collusion,
fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure
the interests of” Peterson. Therefore, the Court finds Peterson’s contention on
this ground is unconvincing.
 
            Based on the foregoing, the Court concludes that its
analysis of Tech-Bilt factors does not support the determination of good faith
settlement that would have provided Cross-Defendant Duong immunity from
liability to nonsettling Defendant Peterson.
 
            Therefore, the Court DENIES the Application for
Determination of Good Faith Settlement.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Cross-Defendant’s
Application for Determination of Good Faith Settlement is DENIED.
 
Defendant’s
Motion to Contest is GRANTED.
 
Moving
Defendant is ordered to give notice.