 Case Number:  23CMCV01424    Hearing Date:   February 8, 2024    Dept:  A 
23CMCV01424 Christian
 Garza, et al. v. Tesla, Inc., et al.
Thursday,
 February 8,  2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING
MOTION
 FOR LEAVE TO FILE COMPLAINT-IN-INTERVENTION 
 
       The
complaint alleges Plaintiffs were injured when Defendant, Cameron Dayne
(“Dayne”), while in the course and scope of employment with Fifth Third Bank,
National Association, crashed into Plaintiffs’ vehicle. Another driver, Oswaldo
Lopez (“Lopez”) was allegedly driving Dayne’s while intoxicated. Plaintiff,
Christian Garza, sustained injury requiring double amputation above the
knee.   Plaintiffs
also assert product liability claims against Defendant, Tesla Inc., for
defective design and manufacture of the Tesla Model 3, which allegedly malfunctioned.

       Petitioner,
Zurich American Insurance Company (“Intervenor”), moves to file a
Complaint-in-Intervention against Defendants to recover worker's compensation
benefits paid to Plaintiff who was injured while in the course and scope of
employment. No opposition has been filed. 
       A
party may intervene as a matter of right if the party demonstrates an interest
relating to the property or transaction at issue and disposition of the action
may as a practical matter impair that party’s ability to protect the interest. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 387 subd. (b).) Permissive intervention is proper
where the intervenor shows a direct interest in the outcome of the litigation
between two other parties. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 387
subd.(a).) 
       An
employer can intervene in the employee’s suit if it becomes obligated to pay
salary in lieu of compensation.  (Lab.
Code, § § 3852, 3853.) An
“employer” includes an “insurer” such as a private company authorized to insure
employers against liability for compensation. (Lab.
Code, § 3211, Lab.
Code, § 3850.) 
       Intervenor
has demonstrated a statutory right to intervene under the Labor Code given its
status as an insurer for the employer. Accordingly, the motion to intervene is
GRANTED. The Court’s file reflects that the Intervenor filed a
Complaint-in-Intervention on January 10, 2024.  
 