  Case Number:  22STCV29076    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE
MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION 
On September 7, 2022,
Plaintiffs Richard Tree and Leah Sanford filed this action alleging Richard
Boetsch developed mesothelioma as a result of exposure to asbestos from Defendant
Ford Motor Company’s products.  Defendant
filed a motion for summary adjudication as to Plaintiffs’ wrongful death claim.
 
A defendant seeking
summary judgment must “conclusively negate[] a necessary element of the
plaintiff’s case, or . . . demonstrate[] that under no hypothesis is there a
material issue of fact that requires the process of trial.”  (Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24
Cal.4th 317, 334.)  To show that a
plaintiff cannot establish an element of a cause of action, a defendant must
make the initial showing “that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot
reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.)  “The defendant may, but need not, present
evidence that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of
action.  The defendant may also present
evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence – as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive
discovery to the effect that he has discovered nothing.”  (Id. at p. 855.)  
Defendant argues
Plaintiffs, the adult children of Richard Boetsch, do not have standing to
bring a wrongful death claim because Boetsch’s parental rights were terminated
when the children were adopted by their stepfather.  (Calfo Decl., Exs. G and H.)  Defendants cite deposition testimony that
Plaintiffs had minimal contact with Decedent after the adoption.  (Undisputed Material Fact 10.)
Civil Code section 377.60,
subdivision (a) states that individuals with standing to bring a wrongful death
claim include “[t]he decedent's surviving spouse, domestic partner, children, .
. .”  Probate Code section 6451 governs
the effect of an adoption on the parent-child relationship and states, in
pertinent part: “(a) An adoption severs the relationship of parent and child
between an adopted person and a natural parent of the adopted person unless
both of the following requirements are satisfied: (1) The natural parent and
the adopted person lived together at any time as parent and child, or the
natural parent was married to or cohabiting with the other natural parent at
the time the person was conceived and died before the person’s birth; (2) The
adoption was by the spouse of either of the natural parents or after the death
of either of the natural parents.”
Richard Boetsch is the
natural parent of Plaintiffs.  (Calfor
Decl., Ex. E at p. 10; Ex. F at p. 10.) 
Plaintiffs were born in 1965 and 1967. 
(Id., Ex. E at p. 10; Ex. F at p. 10)  Plaintiffs’ parents divorced in 1976.  (Id., Ex. E at p. 10)  Plaintiffs lived with Boetsch until the
divorce.  (Id., Ex. E at p. 25;
Ex. F at pp. 11-12.)  Gary Russell Tree
is the spouse of Plaintiffs’ natural parent, Jeannine Fisher Tree.  (Id., Ex. D at p. 27.)  Based on these facts, Plaintiffs’ adoption did
not sever the relationship of Boetsch and Plaintiffs under section 6451.  Therefore, Defendant did not shift the
burden.
The motion for summary
adjudication is DENIED. 
The moving party is to
give notice. 