 Case Number:  23PSCV03888    Hearing Date:   January 8, 2025    Dept:  H  Lu v. Wang, et  al.,  Case No. 23PSCV03888   ORDER ON  DEMURRER  Defendants’ Demurrer to the  Second Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED, without leave to amend.   I.        Background Plaintiffs Juliana  Lu (“Juliana”), Alice Lu (“Alice”), and Luke Lu (“Luke”) (together,  “Plaintiffs”) allege as follows: Alice and Luke are married; Juliana is their  daughter. Plaintiffs live in the same residential community. Luke served on the  Community board from approximately late 2006 to summer 2017. In 2006, it was  arranged for STC Management Company (“STC”) to oversee and monitor the  community’s finances. Cheng Ming Wang  (“C. Wang”), Chien Chyun Lee (“Lee”), Liou-Jy Wang (“L. Wang”), and David H.  Cheng (“Cheng”) falsely accused Luke of fiscal mismanagement of community funds  and/or have denied ever receiving community’s bank accounts and access to  financial data from STC. Defendants have invaded Plaintiffs’ privacy by  using community cameras to monitor them and have otherwise harassed and bullied  Plaintiffs.  On May 14,  2024, Plaintiffs filed a 193-page First Amended Complaint against C. Wang,  Cheng, Lee, L. Wang, Walnut Grove Senior Housing, Inc., Walnut Grove Senior  Housing Owner Association, Walnut Grove Senior Housing HOA, Walnut Grove  Village HOA, Inc., Walnut Grove Senior Housing Homeowner Association, Walnut  Grove Senior Housing Community, and Does 1-10 (together, “Defendants”.) On August  28, 2024, on the Court’s own motion, the Court struck the First Amended  Complaint pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 436 and gave Plaintiffs  40 days leave to amend; based on this ruling, the Court overruled as moot  Defendants’ demurrer to the First Amended Complaint.  On October  1, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the operative 201-page Second Amended Complaint  (“SAC” or the “Operative Complaint”) against Defendants.  Pending  before the Court is Defendants’ Demurrer to the Operative Complaint. For the  reasons stated herein, the Demurrer is sustained, without leave to amend.  II.      Legal Standard A  demurrer may be made on the grounds that the pleading, inter alia, does not  state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and/or is uncertain.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e) and (f).) When  considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context. In  a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading  or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)  116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the  evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects  appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v.  Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905 [citations omitted].) At the  pleading stage, a plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to  apprise the defendant of the factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole  v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) “[A] demurrer does not,  however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in  the pleading, or the construction placed on an instrument pleaded therein, or  facts impossible in law, or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may  take judicial knowledge.” (S. Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226  Cal.App.2d 725, 732 [citations omitted].)  When a  demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a  reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy  (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court  that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.; Lewis v.  YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.)    III.     Meet and Confer Before filing a  demurrer or motion to strike, the moving party is required to meet and confer  in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading demurred to or  the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike for the purposes of  determining whether an agreement can be reached through a filing of an amended  pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer or  motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41; 435.5.)  “As part of  the meet and confer process, the demurring party shall identify all of the  specific causes of action that it believes are subject to demurrer and identify  with legal support the basis of the deficiencies.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41,  subd. (a)(1).)   Here, counsel for  Defendants attests that on October 10, 2024, he spoke on the telephone with  Plaintiff Juliana and advised her that Defendants would be filing a demurrer to  the Operative Complaint; during this call, counsel for Defendants also proposed  mediation. (Kim Decl., ¶ 4.) On the same day, Juliana sent an email to  Defendants’ counsel regarding the potential mediation, to which counsel  responded. (Id. ¶ 5.) On October 23, 2024 and October 24, 2024,  Defendants’ counsel called Julianna to discuss potential mediation, but according to counsel, Juliana did not pick  up the phone. (Id.) Defendants’ counsel sent a follow up email  regarding his attempt to call Juliana. (Id., Ex. 3.)  Even  assuming that the phone call on October 10, 2024 does not satisfy the  meet-and-confer requirement, a “determination by the court that the meet and confer process was  insufficient shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer.” (Code  Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a)(4).)  Accordingly, the Court proceeds to the merits.   IV.     Discussion  Defendants  demur, per Code of Civil Procedure § 430.10(e) and (f), to the Operative  Complaint, on the basis that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a  cause of action and is uncertain. As an  initial matter, the Court observes that following the Court’s August 28, 2024  order, Plaintiffs have filed a Second Amended Complaint, which (1) has been  executed by each Plaintiff separately, (2) includes certified translations of  the attached exhibits pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 3.110(g), and  (3) identifies specific causes of  action – Libel, Invasion of Privacy, Stalking/Harassment, Trespass, Public  Nuisance, False Impersonation, and Negligence – pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 2.112.  The Court addresses each cause of action in turn.[FN1] A.       Libel  Plaintiffs allege  libel against Defendants and “libel per se” against Lee and C. Wang, based on  Exhibits 1 through 10 attached to the Operative Complaint. (SAC ¶ 48(I).) Libel is “a  false and unprivileged publication by writing . . . which exposes any person to  hatred, contempt, ridicule, or obloquy, or which causes him to be shunned or  avoided, or which has a tendency to injure him in his occupation.” (Civ. Code, § 45.) The statute  of limitations for a libel action is one year. (Code Civ. Proc., § 340.) “As a  general rule a cause of action for libel  accrues when the defamatory matter is published.” (Schneider v. United Airlines,  Inc. (1989) 208 Cal.App.3d 71, 76.) However, “if a party could not reasonably  have discovered the facts giving rise to the cause of action for libel (i.e., defamatory matter contained  in a confidential file and communicated to persons of which plaintiff is  unaware), the statute of limitation  starts to run upon discovery of the publication of the defamatory matter.” (Id.  at p. 77.) Here, the exhibits and  allegations underlying the libel cause of action demonstrate that the cause of  action is time-barred. Exhibit 1, a Community Residential bulletin board  posting, is dated August 18, 2017. (SAC, Ex. 1.) Exhibit 2 is purportedly a Community  Bulletin Board from August 2015, within which “libels” were allegedly “posted.”  (SAC, ¶ 24, Ex. 2.) Exhibits 3 and 4 are purportedly Defendant Cheng  video-taping Juliana in front of her garage, an event Plaintiffs allege  occurred in August 2017. (Id., ¶ 6, Exs. 3, 4.) These exhibits, on their  face, depict incidents that are all well outside the one-year statute of  limitations period.  Plaintiffs’ remaining exhibits  similarly do not support a libel cause of action. Exhibit 5 is a “Report and  Victims’ Bill of Rights,” which is illegible. Exhibit 6 is a “Long Scratch on  [Juliana’s] Auto Windshield Glass.” (SAC, Exhibit 6.) Exhibits 7 and 8 purport  to be messages involving unidentified individuals regarding inspections and  cameras. (Id., ¶ 26, Exs. 7, 8.) Exhibits 9 and 10 purport to be  messages regarding potential legal action taken against Alice, involving  unidentified individuals using the “Community’s HOA account.” (Id. ¶ 27,  Exs. 9, 10.)  These exhibits and the  accompanying allegations do not make out the elements of a libel claim and are  more akin to “generalized grievances,” which the Court previously advised  Plaintiffs were insufficient. (Aug. 28, 2024 Order.)    Accordingly, the Court sustains  the demurrer as to the libel cause of action.   Invasion of Privacy  Plaintiffs  allege invasion of privacy against Defendants Cheng, Lee, and C. Wang, based on  Exhibits 1, 3, 4, 7, 8, 28, 39, and 41 attached to the Operative Complaint.  (SAC ¶ 48(II).)  The  elements of a cause of action for violation of invasion of privacy are “(1) a  legally protected privacy interest; (2) a reasonable expectation of privacy in  the circumstances; and (3) conduct by defendant constituting a serious invasion  of privacy.” (Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.  4th 1, 39-40). “Whether a legally recognized privacy  interest is present in a given case is a question of law to be decided by the  court. . . . If the undisputed material facts show no reasonable expectation of  privacy or an insubstantial impact on privacy interests, the question of  invasion may be adjudicated as a matter of law.” (Id. at p. 40.)  “Code of Civil Procedure  section 340, subdivision (3) provides a one-year statute of limitations  for invasion of privacy  claims.” (Maheu v. CBS, Inc. (1998) 201 Cal.App.3d 662, 676.)  Code of Civil Procedure section 335.1 provides a two-year statute of  limitations for “an action for assault, battery,  or injury to . . . an individual caused by the wrongful act or neglect of  another.” Code of Civil Procedure section 343 provides a “catch-all” four-year  statute of limitations of actions other than for the recovery of real property  “not hereinbefore provided.” Here, the allegations and  exhibits underlying the invasion of privacy cause of action demonstrate that  most of the complained-of conduct falls outside the statute of limitations.  Exhibit 1, a Community Residential bulletin board posting, is dated August 18,  2017. (SAC, Ex. 1.) Exhibit 2 is purportedly a Community Bulletin Board from  August 2015, within which “libels” were “posted.” (SAC, ¶ 24, Ex. 2.) Exhibits  3 and 4 are purportedly Defendant Cheng video-taping Juliana in front of her  garage, which Plaintiffs allege occurred in August 2017. (Id., ¶ 6, Exs.  3, 4.) These exhibits, on their face, depict incidents that fall outside the  statute of limitations. While other exhibits purportedly  represent more recent conduct, they still do not support an invasion of privacy  cause of action, either because they fail to allege a legally recognized  privacy interest or because they amount to generalized grievances that do not  align with the elements of the cause of action. Exhibits 7 and 8 purport to be  messages involving unidentified individuals regarding inspections and cameras,  which Plaintiffs allege occurred “around November of 2023.” (SAC, ¶ 12, Exs. 7,  8.) However, Exhibit 7 references the fact that the cameras at issue were in  “the public area,” and Paragraph 44 of the Operative Complaint confirms that  these are community areas. (SAC, ¶ 44.)[FN2] Accordingly, Plaintiffs have not sufficiently alleged a legally recognized  privacy interest that would support a cause of action for invasion of privacy. Exhibits 39 and 41 and the  accompanying allegations similarly do not support the invasion of privacy cause  of action. Exhibit 39 purportedly references a message about a parking  violation warning: “Friendly Reminder left and right, front and back two cares  in parking violation. WARNING first time.” (Id., Ex. 39.) Exhibit 41  purportedly references a posting to the community, which summarily states “scam  calls and emails are very common.” (Id., Ex. 41.) These exhibits and accompanying allegations do not make out the  elements for invasion of privacy.  Accordingly,  the demurrer is sustained as to the invasion of privacy cause of action.   Stalking/Harassment  Plaintiffs  allege stalking/harassment against Defendants Cheng and Lee, based on Exhibits  1, 3, and 4, attached to the Operative Complaint. (SAC ¶ 48(III).)  Code  of Civil Procedure section 335.1 provides a two-year statute of limitations for  “an action for assault, battery, or injury to,  or for the death of, an individual caused by the wrongful act or neglect of  another.” Code of Civil Procedure section 343 provides a “catch-all” four-year  statute of limitations of actions other than for the recovery of real property  “not hereinbefore provided.”  Here, the exhibits underlying  the cause of action demonstrate the cause of action is time-barred. Exhibit 1,  a Community Residential bulletin board posting, is dated August 18, 2017. (SAC,  Ex. 1.) Exhibits 3 and 4 are purportedly Defendant Cheng video-taping Juliana  in front of her garage, which Plaintiffs allege occurred in August 2017. (Id.,  ¶ 6, Exs. 3, 4.) These exhibits, on their face, depict incidents that all fall  outside the statute of limitations periods delineated above. Accordingly, the demurrer is  sustained as to the stalking/harassment cause of action.    Trespass  Plaintiffs  assert a trespass action against Defendant Lee, specifically alleging that Lee  committed trespass “with a locksmith into the exclusive area belong [to] the  Plaintiffs and their immediate neighbor.” (SAC ¶ 48(IV).) Plaintiffs allege  that this incident occurred “during the end of 2017.” (Id. ¶ 8(d).)  Code  of Civil Procedure section 338 subdivision (b) provides a three-year statute of  limitations for “[a]n action for trespass upon  or injury to real property.”  As alleged by Plaintiffs, the purported trespass  occurred in 2017, which falls outside the three-year statute of limitations. Accordingly, the demurrer is sustained as to the  trespass cause of action.    Public Nuisance  Plaintiffs  allege public nuisance against Lee and L. Wang, based on Exhibit 1. (SAC, ¶  48(V).)  The  statute of limitations for a public nuisance is three years. (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 338(b).)  Exhibit  1, a Community Residential bulletin board posting, is dated August 18, 2017.  (SAC, Exhibit 1.) The cause of action for public nuisance is thus barred by the  three-year statute of limitations.  Accordingly,  the demurrer is sustained as to the public nuisance cause of action.    False Impersonation  Plaintiffs  allege false impersonation against Defendant C. Wang, based on Exhibits 24 and  27 attached to the Operative Complaint, (SAC ¶ 48(VI).) Specifically,  Plaintiffs allege that C. Wang committed “False Impersonation of Walnut City,  which can cause Walnut City to be civilly liable for the defendants’ actions,  or to incur any other penalty or charge.” (Id.)  Plaintiffs’  exhibits and accompanying allegations in support of the false impersonation  claim do not sufficiently allege that C. Wang falsely impersonated Walnut City  or that the alleged impersonation caused Plaintiffs to suffer damages. (SAC ¶  48(VI).) Exhibit 24 purports to show Defendant C. Wang “fak[ing] to be  Join[t]-Managing the Community with Walnut City and pretending to schedule [an]  appointment for Walnut City to discuss with the Community Senior Residents.”  (SAC, ¶ 45(o), Ex. 24.) While Plaintiffs claim that Exhibit 27 demonstrates C.  Wang “fak[ing] to be representing or speaking on behalf of the Walnut City”  (SAC ¶ 45(o), Ex. 27), Exhibit 27 appears to be a communication exchange where  Plaintiffs are complaining to an unidentified party about Defendants. Simply put, these exhibits and the accompanying allegations  do not state a cause of action for false impersonation.    Negligence  Plaintiffs  appear to first assert a negligence claim against Defendant L. Wang, based on  Exhibit 38, attached to the Operative Complaint. (SAC ¶ 48(VII).) Specifically,  Plaintiffs allege that L. Wang’s omission of Lee’s  murder conviction was a breach of the duty of care that gave rise to injury or  harm to the Community bank account belonging to all the Community senior  residents, including Plaintiffs. (Id.)  Plaintiffs  also appear to assert a separate negligence claim against all Defendants, based  on the allegations that “Defendants since approximately 2019 had been  withdrawing and endorsing the same Community bank account fund with many  different name endorsements, different bank accounts from different banks or  often with no bank endorsement at all.” (Id., ¶ 48(VII).)[FN3] To state a cause of action for  negligence, a plaintiff must allege (1) the defendant owed the plaintiff a duty  of care, (2) the defendant breached that duty, and (3) the breach proximately  caused the plaintiff’s damages or injuries. (Lueras v. BAC Home Loans  Servicing, LP (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 49, 62.) “[T]he plaintiff must  show the defendant’s act or omission (breach of duty) was a cause of the  plaintiff’s injury.” (Vasquez v. Residential Investments, Inc. (2004)  118 Cal.App.4th 269, 288). To prove causation, the plaintiff must show: (1)  that the defendant’s breach of duty was a cause in fact of his or her injury;  and (2) that the defendant's breach was the proximate, or legal, cause of the  injury. (Id.; see also Sandoval v. Bank of America (2002) 94  Cal.App.4th 1378, 1385 [“’In California, the causation element of negligence is  satisfied when the plaintiff establishes (1) that the defendant's breach of  duty (his negligent act or omission) was a substantial factor in bringing about  the plaintiff's harm and (2) that there is no rule of law relieving the  defendant of liability.’”].)  The exhibits and accompanying  allegations do not state a cause of action for negligence. As to the claim  against L. Wang, Plaintiffs have not sufficiently alleged that L. Wang’s  alleged failure to disclose Lee’s murder conviction resulted in harm to Plaintiffs.  As to the check endorsement claim, Exhibit 38 appears to show various checks  that were deposited into the community bank account (as demonstrated by  markings on the rear side of the checks). Plaintiffs have not sufficiently  alleged how “different name endorsements, different bank accounts from  different banks or [the lack of] bank endorsement” amount to a breach of a duty  of care, let alone that a breach that proximately caused damages or injury to  Plaintiffs.  Accordingly, the demurrer is  sustained as to the negligence causes of action.    Conclusion  For the foregoing reasons, Defendants’ demurrer is sustained in its  entirety, without leave to amend.  Where “legal theories [are] soundly rejected” and  the plaintiff has “not identified any additional facts that [it] can allege to  overcome these legal barriers,” no leave to amend should be granted. (Nelson v. Tucker Ellis, LLP,  48 Cal. App. 5th 827, 848–49 (2020).) Here, even after two rounds of  amendment, the Operative Complaint fails to assert a legally viable cause of  action, and Plaintiffs fail to proffer additional facts that could overcome the  defects. Accordingly, the Court finds that any further amendment would be  futile as Plaintiffs have not shown “a reasonable possibility that the  defect[s] can be cured by amendment.” (Heshejin v. Rostami (2020) 54 Cal.App.5th 984, 992.)        