On March 9, 2023, Plaintiff Travis Flaherty filed the operative Complaint against Defendants Samuel Luke Llaneras, Marfuri LLC, and Tariq Shah for (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (3) promissory estoppel; (4) unjust enrichment; (5) intentional misrepresentation; (6) concealment; (7) false promise; (8) negligent misrepresentation; (9) conversion; (10) possession; (11) intentional infliction of emotional distress; and (12) negligent infliction of emotional distress.On April 17, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion to deem admitted his requests for admission, set one, propounded on Defendant Samuel Luke Llaneras.Plaintiff now seeks Summary Adjudication against Llaneras with respect to his first and third causes of action for breach of contract and promissory estoppel.  Plaintiff relies on Llaneras’ admissions.The law of summary judgment provides courts “a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  In reviewing a motion for summary judgment or adjudication, courts employ a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”  (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)  The moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue, in which case the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(p)(2).)  To show a triable issue of material fact exists, the opposing party may not rely on the mere allegations or denials of the pleadings, but instead must set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.  (Aguilar, at p. 849.)  Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)The Motion for Summary Adjudication is granted because there is no opposition, including a separate statement of undisputed fact.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(b)(3).)Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 