 This is an action in which Plaintiff SK Rosgosstrakh Pao (“RGS”), a Russian insurance company, alleges that Defendant Danil Khachaturov, its former president, embezzled RGS’s funds through a fraudulent reinsurance scheme.  Motion to Stay  On September 28, 2022, the Court entered a stay of this action due to the Ukraine war and the related U.S. sanctions on Russia.  On November 7, 2023, the Court lifted the stay and allowed the parties to attempt discovery.   Defendant Danil Khachaturov again seeks to stay this action in light of the Ukraine-Russia war and U.S. sanctions imposed on Russia. Defendant contends these issues continue to make discovery very difficult or impossible.  Defendant points to the facts that essentially all evidence is in Russia and RGS has made very few witnesses available for deposition.  Defendant further contends that while he has insisted on depositions in a neutral company like Hong Kong, the depositions RGS has offered are by video only.  “[A] court ordinarily has inherent power, in its discretion, to stay proceedings when such a stay will accommodate the ends of justice.”  (People v. Bell (1984) 159 Cal.App.3d 323, 329.)  “[T]he power to stay proceedings is incidental to the power inherent in every court to control the disposition of the causes on its docket with economy of time and effort for itself, for counsel, and for litigants.”  (Landis v. North American Co. (1936) 299 U.S. 248, 254.)  “In exercising its discretion the court should consider the importance of discouraging multiple litigation designed solely to harass an adverse party, and of avoiding unseemly conflicts with the courts of other jurisdictions. It should also consider whether the rights of the parties can best be determined by the court of the other jurisdiction because of the nature of the subject matter, the availability of witnesses, or the stage to which the proceedings in the other court have already advanced.”  (Farmland Irr. Co. v. Dopplmaier (1957) 48 Cal.2d 208, 215.)An indefinite stay will not remedy the issue of difficult discovery.  First, it is not at all clear when the Ukraine war will end.  The Court will not stay this matter for years.  Second, while the end of the war would make matters somewhat better, it would not be a cure-all.  Even if there were no sanctions, Khachaturov and his counsel would likely never travel to Russia.  Even now they have declined visas to Moscow and have hired local counsel, which makes sense.  Additionally, the Court cannot compel foreign nationals to appear in California for a deposition.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1989;  Toyota Motor Corp. v. Superior Court (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 1107, 1125.)  Also, notably, the fear of reprisal by Putin would seem to exist regardless.  While there will be challenges for remote depositions, this makes more sense than compelling teams of people to a neutral country.  These depositions can take place whether or not there is a war.  Finally, the issue of discovery as to third-parties in Russia will always be an obstacle.For all of these reasons, the Court finds a stay to be unwarranted and unhelpful.  Other courts have come to the same conclusion.  In sum, the Motion to Stay is denied. Motion to Compel Depositions Defendant also seeks to compel RGS “to make its Russia-based affiliated witnesses—for starters, (1) Maxim Shepelev (Plaintiff’s former Advisor and CFO, and now board member); (2) Valeriy Smirnov (RGS’s former Deputy Finance Director and then Advisor); and (3) Plaintiff’s person(s) most qualified on various topics—available for in-person depositions.”  Defendant seeks depositions in Hong Kong or another neutral country. As discussed above, the Court, in the exercise of its discretion, declines to compel depositions in a neutral country.  Remote depositions will be the most ideal in this situation.  The fears of evidence tampering exist whether or not the deposition is in-person.  The Motion is denied.    Khachaturov to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 