 On April 10, 2024, Plaintiff Joshua Saeta filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) (case no. 24STCV04306) against Defendants West Hills Hospital and Medical Center and HCA Healthcare, Inc. for (1) dependent adult neglect, (2) dependent adult neglect (enhanced remedies), (3) violation of the Health Care Decisions Law, (4) medical battery, (5) fraudulent concealment, and (6) negligence.   This matter is related to case no. BC691744, which is a medical malpractice case.Plaintiff now seeks a trial preference under Code Civ. Proc. § 36(d)-(e).  Plaintiff requests that trial be set for October 1, 2024, which is the same date for the trial in BC691744.  Plaintiff seems to indicate that he will pursue consolidation.The request for a trial preference is based on the contention that, as a result of Defendant’s care, Plaintiff suffers from a severe anoxic injury to his brain and organs; he requires round-the-clock care; he regularly goes into hospitals and emergency rooms; his family’s finances have now been depleted, with Plaintiff’s father spending all of his retirement funds; the family now personally cares for Plaintiff on a 24/7 basis, which has taken a severe mental toll—several family members have been diagnosed with depression and are in a “crisis”; the family care is insufficient for Plaintiff’s needs—one example cited is Plaintiff and his sister falling because his sister could not support Plaintiff’s weight; and these circumstances have ultimately led to Plaintiff’s health further diminishing, which threatens his ability to go to trial on an ordinary timeline. Defendant West Hills Hospital and Medical Center opposes the Motion because (1) Plaintiff’s declarations are not sufficient; (2) financial hardship is not a basis for a preference and it’s Plaintiff’s fault for not having medical insurance; (3) the trial in the related malpractice case is irrelevant as the two cases present distinct theories; (4) it’s Plaintiff’s fault that this intentional tort case was filed so late; and (5) Defendant is in the process of preparing a summary judgment motion.Code Civ. Proc. § 36(e) states, “(e) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the court may in its discretion grant a motion for preference that is supported by a showing that satisfies the court that the interests of justice will be served by granting this preference.”The Court has considered this matter and, in the exercise of its discretion, will grant a trial preference based on the evidence that Plaintiff’s health is diminishing due to the circumstances of his family.  (Patterson M.D. Decl. ¶¶ 14-15; Code Civ. Proc. § 36(e).)  The trial date is December 2, 2024.The Motion is granted.  Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 