 Case Number:  24STCP00520    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  73 09/24/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
EBET, INC. v. BOUSTEAD SECURITIES,
LLC (24STCP00520)
 
Counsel
for Petitioner:  Eric Berg (Berg Law
Group), Joseph Wilson (Bevilacqua PLLC)
Counsel
for Respondent:  Farhad Novian (Novian
& Novian, LLP)
 
(1)   MOTION TO VACATE ARBITRATION AWARD (filed 04/05/2024)
(2)   MOTION TO FILE DOCUMENTS UNDER SEAL IN CONNECTION WITH EBET,
INC.’S MOTION TO VACATE ARBITRATION AWARD (filed 04/05/2024)
(3)   MOTION TO CONFIRM ARBITRATION AWARD (filed 06/10/2024)
(4)   APPLICATION TO APPEAR PRO HAC VICE (filed 06/11/2024)
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 
The Court DENIES the motion to vacate the arbitration award.
Accordingly, the petition to confirm the arbitration award is GRANTED.  
 
Petitioner is to lodge a proposed judgment consistent with the
arbitration award within 10 days.
 
The
Court GRANTS Respondent’s Motion to Seal. 
 
Petitioner’s Pro Hac Vice Application of Joseph D. Wilson is GRANTED.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On February 20, 2024, Petitioner Boustead Securities LLC filed a
petition for an order confirming the arbitration award in favor of Petitioners
and against Respondent Ebet, Inc. (as successor-in-interest to ESEG Limited).
 
The arbitration award in Petitioner’s favor was made on January 1,
2024, by arbitrators Joseph C. Watson, Richard Maurice Robinson and Michael
Craig Ditty, and is attached to the petition. The arbitration was related to a
dispute that concerned Respondent's failure to pay Petitioner certain fees and
other consideration for services Petitioner rendered to Respondent. Respondent
also raised a counterclaim in the arbitration concerning alleged tortious
interference. The arbitration award requires Respondent to pay Petitioner an
award of $ 15,162,689.05. The petition requests the Court confirm the award and
enter judgment according to it. 
 
On April 5, 2024, Respondent filed a Motion to Vacate Arbitration
Award, arguing:
·      
The Arbitrators exceeded their powers by recognizing an
unconscionable right of first offer and awarding warrants based on contractual
language that does not allow for their proper valuation.
·      
The terms of the Engagement Agreement was indefinite and therefore
unconscionable.
·      
Because the Arbitrators improperly awarded Boustead the full
amount of warrants in Count II, based on a manifest disregard for the plain
language of Section 2(a)(i)-(ii) of the Engagement Agreement and well-settled
principles of contract interpretation, under which the uncertainty should have
been interpreted strongly against Boustead, the Arbitrators exceeded their
powers.
 
On June 10, 2024, Petitioner filed an Opposition to Respondent’s
Motion to Vacate Arbitration Award/Motion to Confirm Arbitration Award,
arguing:
·      
The Law Requires a Court to Enter an Arbitration Award as a
Judgment Except in Extraordinary Circumstances Not Present Here
·      
The Arbitrators Properly Issued the Award, Which Should Be
Affirmed
o  
The Engagement Agreement expressly gave the Panel the authority to
render the decision it issued
o  
EBET made the same challenges to Counts II and V of the Statement
of Claim that EBET raises in its Motion to Vacate. See Wilson Dec., 7; Ex. 4.
The Panel implicitly rejected those challenges in finding for Boustead on
Counts II and V. Thus, EBET's Motion to Vacate boils down to being an argument
that the Panel got the facts or law wrong in deciding Counts II and V. However,
that is clearly not a valid basis for vacating an arbitration award.
Respondent
filed a reply, arguing:
·      
Petitioner did not need to file a Motion to Confirm Award.
Petitioner’s motion doubles as an opposition to Respondent’s Motion to Vacate. 
·      
Boustead does not meaningfully dispute that the arbitrators
manifestly disregarded the contract language and well-settled principles of
contract interpretation in the Engagement Agreement with respect to the award
of warrants.
On April 5,
2024, Respondent filed a Motion to File Documents Under Seal in Connection with
Respondent’s Motion to Vacate Arbitration Award. No opposition was filed. 
 
On June 11,
2024, counsel for Petitioner filed an Application for Joseph D. Wilson to
Appear Pro Hac Vice. No opposition was filed.
II.
DISCUSSION
 
A.     
Motions to Vacate/Confirm Arbitration Award
 
a.       Legal
Standard 
 
Statutes set forth specific grounds upon which an¿arbitrator’s
award may be¿vacated (Code Civ. Proc. § 1286.2) or corrected (Code Civ. Proc. §
1286.60).  Except on these grounds,¿arbitration awards are immune from
judicial review in proceedings to challenge or enforce the award.¿(Moncharsh
v. Heily & Blase¿(1992) 3 Cal.4th 1, 12-13;¿Zazueta v.
County of San Benito¿(1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 106, 110.)  In
deciding an application to vacate an arbitration award, every presumption is
made in favor of upholding the arbitration award.  (Popcorn Equipment
Co. v. Page (1949) 92 Cal.App.2d 448, 451.) 
 
An award may be vacated only for fraud, corruption, misconduct, an
undisclosed conflict, or similar “circumstances involving serious problems with
the award itself, or with¿the fairness of the arbitration process.”¿(Moncharsh,¿3
Cal.4th at 12, see¿Code Civ. Proc., § 1286.2, subd.
(a).)  “[B]y voluntarily submitting to arbitration, the parties have
agreed to bear the risk [of uncorrectable legal or factual error] in return for
a quick, inexpensive, and conclusive resolution to their dispute.” (Moncharsh,¿3
Cal.4th at 11.) 
 
 
An award may be set aside entirely if the court finds any of the
following grounds,¿Code Civ. Proc. § 1286.2(a)(1)-(6): 
 
(1) The award
was procured by corruption, fraud or other undue means. 
(2) There was
corruption in any of the arbitrators. 
(3) The
rights of the party were substantially prejudiced by misconduct of a neutral
arbitrator. 
(4) The
arbitrators exceeded their powers and the award cannot be corrected without
affecting the merits of the decision upon the controversy submitted. 
(5) The
rights of the party were¿substantially prejudiced¿by the refusal of the
arbitrators to postpone the hearing upon sufficient cause being shown therefor
or by the refusal of the arbitrators to hear evidence material to the
controversy or by¿other conduct of the arbitrators contrary to the provisions
of this title. 
(6) An
arbitrator making the award either: (A) failed to disclose within the time
required for disclosure a ground for disqualification of which the arbitrator
was then aware; or (B) was subject to disqualification upon grounds specified
in¿Section 1281.91¿but failed upon receipt of timely demand to disqualify
himself or herself as required by that provision. However, this subdivision
does not apply to arbitration proceedings conducted under a collective
bargaining agreement between employers and employees or between their
respective representatives…” 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1286.2(a)(1)-(6).)  
 
Limiting grounds for judicial review effectuates the parties’
agreement that the award be final.  It also reflects that arbitrators
ordinarily need not follow the law and may base their decisions on “broad
principles of justice and equity” – “paths neither marked nor traceable by
judicial review. ”¿(Moncharsh, 3 Cal.4th at 11;¿Nogueiro
v. Kaiser Found. Hospitals¿(1988) 203 Cal.App.3d 1192,
1195.)   
 
The merits of the controversy are generally not reviewable by the
court when a petition to confirm or vacate is presented.¿(Moncharsh, 3
Cal.4th at 11.)  Thus, courts will¿not review¿the sufficiency
of the evidence to support the award.¿(Morris v. Zuckerman¿(1968) 69
Cal.2d 686, 691.) 
 
Nor will courts pass upon the¿validity of the arbitrator’s
reasoning.¿The court simply may not substitute its judgment for that of the
arbitrator.¿ (Morris v. Zuckerman, 69 Cal.2d at 691;¿Department of
Pub. Health of City & County of San Francisco v. Service Employees Int'l
Union, Local 790¿(1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 429, 433, fn. 4 (“we do not see any
logic in the arbitrator’s [decision] … however … the arbitrator had the power
[to so decide]”).) 
 
Finally, and most importantly here, errors of law are not
reviewable.  Generally, errors of law committed by the arbitrator, no
matter how gross, are not grounds for challenging the arbitrator’s award under
California law.¿(Moncharsh, 3 Cal.4th at 11;¿Richey v. AutoNation,
Inc.¿(2015) 60 C4th 909, 916;¿Baize v. Eastridge Cos.¿(2006) 142
Cal.App.4th 293, 300-302.) There are two reasons:  First, the parties
contracted that the arbitrator’s decision, right or wrong, would be
conclusive.  Second, the risk of arbitral error has been reduced by
statutory provisions allowing courts to vacate or correct for “serious problems
with the award itself or with the fairness of the arbitral process.”  (Moncharsh,¿3
Cal.4th at 12.) Thus, for example, awards have been upheld despite
erroneous application of the doctrine of collateral estoppel, erroneous
application of res judicata, consideration of inadmissible evidence and
erroneous denial of attorney’s fees.  (See¿State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins.
Co. v. Guleserian¿(1972) 28 Cal.App.3d 397, 402;¿see also¿Moore v. First
Bank of San Luis Obispo¿(2000) 22 Cal.4th 782, 789;¿Moshonov v. Walsh¿(2000)
22 Cal.4th 771, 779.) 
 
b.      Discussion
 
Here, the petition complies with Code of Civil Procedure section
1285.4.  The petition includes a copy of the parties’ agreement to
arbitrate.  (Attachment 4(b).) Joseph C. Watson, Richard Maurice
Robinson and Michael Craig Ditty, served as the arbitrators.  A copy of
the arbitration award is attached to the petition.  (Attachment 8(c).) 

 
Petitioner asserted claims against Respondent for breach of the
Engagement Agreement and for an award of attorneys' fees and costs. Respondent
asserted a counterclaim for tortious interference with prospective economic
advantage. On January 5, 2024, the arbitrators issued an award and determined:
(a) Respondent breached the Engagement Agreement; (b) Petitioner suffered
$14,641,827.11 in damages as a result of Respondent's breaches; and (c) as the
prevailing party, Petitioner was entitled to recover from Respondent
$509,499.44 in attorney's fees and $2,700 in costs. (Wilson Decl., Ex. 1, p. 4.)
 
Respondent’s motion challenges the award's rulings on Counts II
and V of Petitioner's Second Amended Statement of Claim. Count II pertained to
Respondent EBET’s purported breach of the Engagement Agreement for failure to
pay Petitioner success fees due to it in the form of warrants to purchase EBET
stock. Count V was for Respondent’s purported breach of a right of first
refusal provision ("ROFR") in the Engagement Agreement. 
 
Respondent argues that the Court should vacate the arbitration
award because the arbitrators exceeded their powers. Respondent asserts that
the arbitrators exceeded their powers on Count V because the ROFR is allegedly
unconscionable and, regarding Count II, because the panel awarded damages for
the value of the warrants based on an alleged improper reading of the
Engagement Agreement. Respondent contends an award upholding an illegal
contract exceeds the arbitrator’s powers: “[A]n award springing out of an
illegal contract, which no court can enforce, cannot stand on any higher ground
than the contract itself.” (Loving & Evans v. Blick (1949) 33 Cal.2d
603, 610; see also Lindenstadt v. Staff Builders, Inc. (1997) 55
Cal.App.4th 882, 892 [public policy requires that the issue of legality be
independently determined by the court].)
 
In opposition, Petitioner argues the arbitration panel acted well
within the authority granted to it in the Engagement Agreement in issuing the award.
Respondent’s arguments that the arbitrators exceeded their powers by basing
their award on an unsupported or unconscionable reading of the Engagement
Agreement is not a proper ground to vacate an award. Respondent’s raised the
same arguments in their motion to the Statement of Claim, and the panel
rejected those challenges in finding for Petitioner. Thus, Petitioner argues
Respondent’s motion is improperly arguing that the arbitrators got the facts or
law wrong. 
 
The Court does not find that Respondent has established that the
arbitrators exceeded their authority. Respondent ignores that the arbitrators
already rejected its arguments and does not address the grounds for this
rejection. Respondent does not point to any finding that was not potentially
supported by the record. For example, as to Count II, both parties’ experts
disagreed as to how the amount of warrants due was calculated. Just because the
arbitrators could have found differently is of no moment. "Generally,
when faced with a petition to confirm or vacate an arbitration award, a court
may not review the merits of the parties' controversy or claims that the
arbitrator's decision is either legally or factually erroneous, '[Arbitrators
do not exceed their powers merely [by] assign[ing] an erroneous reason for
their decision.' 'Nor can an award be vacated because the arbitrator 'reached
an erroneous decision."' (Jones v. Humanscale Corp. (Cal. Ct. App.
2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 401, 409 (internal citations omitted).)
 
Based on the above, the Court DENIES the motion to vacate the
arbitration award and GRANTS the petition to confirm the arbitration award. 
 
B.     
Motion to Seal 
 
a.       Legal
Standard 
 
“Unless
confidentiality is required by law, court records are presumed to be open.”
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(c).) A party may move to seal records pursuant
to California Rules of Court, rules 2.550-2.551. “A party requesting that a
record be filed under seal must file a motion or an application for an order
sealing the record. The motion or application must be accompanied by a
memorandum and a declaration containing facts sufficient to justify the
sealing.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551(b).) To grant an order permitting a
record to be filed under seal, the court must find facts that establish:  
 
(1)
There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access
to the record; 
(2)
The overriding interest supports sealing the record; 
(3)
A substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be
prejudiced if the record is not sealed; 
(4)
The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and 
(5)
No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest. 
 
(Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d).)  
 
b.      Discussion
 
Respondent
requests
that the Court issue an order sealing: 
·      
Exhibits A, C, and D to the Declaration of Andrew B. Goodman in
support of EBET’s Motion to Vacate Arbitration Award.
·      
EBET’s Motion to Vacate Arbitration Award itself (which contains
references to Exhibits A, C, and D, supra)
 
Respondent
asserts that the if the documents are not sealed, other businesses could gain
an advantage against the parties in future litigation or business deals with
specific knowledge of the confidentially designated information.
 
The
Court finds there are sufficient facts to support the filing of the settlement
documents under seal. As Respondent contends, there is an overriding interest
supporting sealing the Parties’ confidential Engagement Agreement and two expert reports
discussing
the Engagement Agreement in detail. No less
restrictive means are apparent to achieve the overriding interest in protecting
the party’s confidential business information. Petitioner
did not file an opposition.
 
The
Court GRANTS Respondent’s unopposed Motion to Seal. 
 
C.     
Application to Appear Pro Hac Vice
 
a.       Legal
Standard
 
CRC
Rule 9.40(d) provides that an application to be admitted pro hac vice must
state the following: (1) applicant attorney’s residence and office addresses;
(2) the courts to which the applicant attorney has been admitted and dates of
admission; (3) a representation that the attorney applicant is a member in good
standing in the courts of admission and is not currently suspended or disbarred
in any court; (4) the title of each court and action in which the applicant
attorney has appeared pro hac vice in this State in the preceding two years, if
any; and (5) the name, address, and telephone number of the active California
State Bar member who is counsel of record in the local action. (CRC Rule
9.40(d).) 
 
C.R.C., Rule 9.40(e) provides as follows, “[a]n
applicant for permission to appear as counsel pro hac vice under this rule must
pay a reasonable fee not exceeding $50 to the State Bar of California with the
copy of the application and the notice of hearing that is served on the State
Bar.” 
 
b.      Discussion
 
Petitioner’s application on behalf of Joseph D. Wilson provides the information required by C.R.C., Rule
9.40(d).  The declarations supplied
sufficient information to satisfy the requirements. (Wilson Decl., ¶¶ 1-8; Berg
Decl., ¶¶ 1-7, Wilson Suppl. Decl., ¶¶ 1-2.)  Petitioner submitted
proof that the $50.00 fee was paid to the State Bar of California. 
(C.R.C., Rule 9.40(e).) Petitioner also submitted proof of service on the State
Bar of California.  (C.R.C., Rule 9.40(c)(1).) Petitioner’s application
satisfies rule 9.40. Respondent did not file an opposition.
 
Accordingly,
Petitioner’s unopposed motion for an order admitting Joseph D. Wilson to appear pro
hac vice is GRANTED. 
 
III. DISPOSITION
 
The Court DENIES the motion to vacate the arbitration award.
Accordingly, the petition to confirm the arbitration award is GRANTED.  
 
Petitioner is to lodge a proposed judgment consistent with the
arbitration award within 10 days.
 
The
Court GRANTS Respondent’s Motion to Seal. 
 
Petitioner’s Pro Hac Vice Application of Joseph D. Wilson is GRANTED.