 Case Number:  23STCV16554    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  73 09/24/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding
 
FEAR OF GOD, LLC, et al. v. ART CITY CENTER LLC,
et al. (23STCV16554)
 
Counsel for Plaintiffs/opposing party:
 John Cha (Raines Feldman Littrell LLP.)
Counsel for Defendant CBRE Brokerage
Service & Phillip Ruhl/moving party: Gregory Bordo (Blank Rome LLP)
 
Demurrer to THIRD amended complaint (filed by Defendants
CBRE Brokerage Service & Phillip Ruhl on 08/13/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The demurrer
is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend as to the third cause of action
against Defendants CBRE Brokerage Service and Phillip
Ruhl.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On July 14, 2023, Plaintiffs Fear of
God, LLC and FOG Essentials, LLC (collectively “Plaintiffs” or “Tenants”) filed
this action against Defendants Art City Center, LLC (“Art City” or “Landlord”),
Phillip Ruhl (“Ruhl”), and CBRE Brokerage Service (“CBRE”).
 
On February 26, 2024, the Court
sustained Defendant Art City’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint
with leave to amend. On March 14, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a Second Amended
Complaint. The Court subsequently sustained in part and overrule in part
Defendant Art City’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint. 
 
On July 12, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a
Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) alleging the following causes of action: (1)
declaratory relief, (2) rescission and (3) negligent misrepresentation. 
 
The TAC
alleges the following. Plaintiffs
are tenants to a lease (the “Lease”) for a commercial property located at 1360
E. 6th Street, Los Angeles (the “Premises”). Prior to the Lease, the Premises
was used for many years as a warehouse. However, Defendants marketed the
Premises as suitable for conversion to an office space. Plaintiffs’ intent and
plan, which was communicated to Defendant Art City and its broker, Phillip
Ruhl, verbally and in writing, was to create a multi-use space, including a
retail showroom, general office, flex office, creative studio, marketing,
content production, light manufacturing, light distribution, entertainment and
media related space, and its corporate headquarters (“Intended Use”). Of
particular concern to Plaintiff during Lease negotiations was the availability
of electrical power and its capacity for the Premises such that Plaintiff could
properly operate its business in accordance with the Intended Use. Plaintiff
was repeatedly assured, both verbally and in writing, by both Defendants and
Defendants’ Broker that the Premises has “enough power” for the Plaintiffs’
Intended Use. However, after the Lease was executed, Plaintiff alleges Defendants
have failed to provide Plaintiffs with the full power that was promised and that
is needed to use the premises for Plaintiffs’ Intended Use. 
 
On August 13, 2024, Defendants CBRE Brokerage
Service and Phillip Ruhl (“CBRE Defendants”) filed a Demurrer to the TAC,
arguing:
·      
The third cause of action for negligent misrepresentation
fails to state a claim
o   Negligent
misrepresentation only applies to past or existing facts. The purported fraud
concerned a future condition – whether the property would have sufficient power
once the yet-to-be-designed facility was operational.
o   Plaintiffs’
claim for negligent misrepresentation also fails because Plaintiffs do not
allege that the CBRE Defendants knew or should have known the alleged
representations were not true 
·      
The Court Should Sustain the Demurrer
Without Leave To Amend
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue:
·       The allegations of the TAC are sufficient to support each the third cause
action
·       Defendants made misrepresentations to Plaintiffs about the specific
amount of power and Defendants knew its representations were not true. Just
because Art City affirmatively knew their own representations were false based
on their electrician does not mean that the CBRE Defendants did not lack
reasonable grounds to make representations about the Premises 
 
In reply, Art City maintains that the demurrer
should be sustained, arguing:
·       There are no
allegations whatsoever that the CBRE Defendants “knew or should have known”
that electrical panels were broken or inoperable at the Premises. The TAC only
alleges that Art City, via its electrician, knew about purported issues with
the electrical panels. (TAC, ¶¶ 17, 19.) To the extent Plaintiffs are relying
on an argument that the knowledge of Art City, via its electrician, is imputed
to the CBRE Defendants, any such argument is legally flawed. Simply because Art
City may have known there were broken or inoperable electrical panels at the
Premises, as a matter of law, it does not mean that the CBRE Defendants knew as
well.
·       Plaintiffs’
Claim for Negligent Misrepresentation Fails Because it is Based on
Non-Actionable Future Conduct or Opinion
 
II. DISCUSSION 
 
A.     Legal Standard for Demurrer
 
A demurrer tests the sufficiency of whether the complaint
states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context—any defects must be apparent on the face
of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins.
Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading alone,
and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc.
Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the
truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Id.)
The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it
stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th
at p. 747.) 
 
B.     Meet and
Confer Requirement 
 
“Before
filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and
confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is
subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be
reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)  
 
Here, counsel for CBRE Defendants submitted a declaration stating that
on August 8, 2024, the parties met and conferred telephonically regarding the alleged
deficiencies. (Haring Decl., ¶
2.) The Court finds the moving
party has satisfied its meet and confer obligation. 
 
A.     Third Cause
of Action: Negligent Misrepresentation
 
Defendants CBRE Brokerage Service and Phillip Ruhl
argue that Plaintiffs’
negligent misrepresentation cause of action fails against the CBRE Defendants
because the TAC does not allege with specificity (1) that the CBRE Defendants
made any representation knowing it was false or without a reasonable ground for
believing the representation was true, and (2) a misrepresentation of past or
existing material fact.
The elements
of a cause of action for negligent misrepresentation are: (1) the defendant
must have made a representation as to a past or existing material fact; (2) the
representation must have been untrue; (3) regardless of the defendant’s actual
belief, the defendant must have made the representation without any reasonable
ground for believing it to be true; (4) the representation must have been made
with the intent to induce the plaintiff to rely on it; (5) the plaintiff must
have been unaware of the falsity of the representation and must have acted in
justifiable reliance on the truth of the representation; and (6) as a result of
reliance on the truth of the representation, the plaintiff must have sustained
damage. (Continental Airlines, Inc. v. McDonnell Douglas Corp. (1989)
216 Cal.App.3d 388, 402 (reh’g denied and opinion modified on Jan. 5, 1990).) 
The TAC alleges the following. “During Lease negotiations, Landlord and Landlord’s Broker
represented to Tenant and Williams, on multiple occasions both verbally and in
writing, that there was sufficient electrical power available for Tenant’s
Intended Use.” (TAC, ¶ 67.) “Even though Landlord and Landlord’s Broker may
have believed the representations were true when they made them, they had no
reasonable grounds for so believing. The Landlord and through its electrician
Mr. Ben-Shahar, were familiar with the Premises, knew the Premises were to be
converted from a warehouse without an operable HVAC system to a premiere office
space with an HVAC system sufficient to allow Tenants’ employees to comfortably
work there. As such, Landlord knew, or should have known, based upon Mr.
Ben-Shahar’s knowledge both of the Premises and as an electrician, the
electrical load necessary to comply with Landlord’s obligation to provide the
Landlord’s Work items, which, among other items, includes an obligation to
deliver a new HVAC system to cool or heat the approximately 57,000 square foot
Premises sufficient for the Intended Use as well as the additional electrical
power that will be required for Tenant to utilize the Premises for the Intended
Use. Accordingly, because Landlord’s electrician and Landlord knew or should
have known that they would need to use and/or would be using substantially all
of the available electrical power capacity set forth in the Power Availability
Assessment letter for the HVAC system alone – including Landlord and Landlord’s
electrician’s knowledge that certain panels identified in the Power
Availability Assessment Letter were inoperable - Landlord knew or should have
known that Landlord had no reasonable ground for believing its representation
that “the available wattage would definitely be sufficient for Tenants’
Intended Use.” Landlord knew or should have known at the time the
representation was made that that additional power capacity would then be
needed for the Intended Use and made the representation with an intent to
deceive Tenants’ to enter into the Lease.” (SAC, ¶ 69.) 
Here, Plaintiffs specify in the TAC how the Landlord, Defendant
Art City, knew or should have known their representations were false. Plaintiffs
allege that the Landlord and its electrician had knowledge of the Premises and
its electrical load. However, Plaintiffs do not include any allegations as to
how the CBRE Defendants knew or should have known their representations were
false and thus, intended to deceive Plaintiffs. Based on this ground, the Court
does not find the TAC’s allegations sufficient as to its negligent
misrepresentation cause of action against the CBRE Defendants. 
Thus, the
demurrer is sustained as to Plaintiffs’ third cause of action against the CBRE
Defendants with leave to amend. 
III. DISPOSITION 
 
The
demurrer is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend as to the third cause of
action against Defendants CBRE
Brokerage Service and Phillip Ruhl.