  Case Number:  23STCV00319    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  73 09/24/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
JOSEPH F. FARIVAR INVESTMENT GROUP,
INC., et al. v. HPC VINEBURN, LLC, et al. (23STCV00319)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiffs/moving party:  Kenneth Ehrlich
(Elkins Kalt Weintraub Reuben Gartside LLP) 
Counsel for Defendants
HPC Vineburn, LLC and Highpoint Capital LLC/opposing party: Brian Ledger
(Gordon Rees Scully Mansukhani, LLP)
 
PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION FOR SUMMARY
ADJUDICATION (filed on 06/05/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiffs’
Motion for Summary Adjudication of the first, third, fifth, sixth and ninth
causes of action against Defendants
HPC Vineburn and Meruelo Maddux is GRANTED.
 
Plaintiffs’
Motion for Summary Adjudication of the first, third, fifth, sixth and ninth
causes of action against Defendants Benedetta Nardon and Marylin Knoop is MOOT.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On January 6, 2023, Plaintiffs Joseph
F. Farivar Investment Group, Inc. (“FIG”) and Bordan Shoe Company, Inc. (“Bordan”)
filed this action against Defendants HPC Vineburn, LLC (“HPC Vineburn”); Nardon
Liquidating Corp.; Meruelo Maddux Properties – 1919 Vineburn Street, LLC  (“Meruelo Maddux”); Vineburn Property, LLC;
Benedetta Nardon, as an individual and as a Trustee of the Nardon Family Trust
dated October 27, 1982 and as Trustee of the
M Nardon Marital Trust; Marilyn N. Knoop, as an individual; and Patricia J.
Minni, as an individual and as Trustee of the Minni Family Trust dated April
18, 1996 f/b/o the Minni Family and as Trustee of the Minni Family Bypass
Trust.
 
HPC
Vineburn filed a Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff Joseph
F. Farivar Investment Group, Inc. On September 26, 2023, the Court
sustained Plaintiff’s demurrer to that Cross-Complaint, and HPC Vineburn did
not file an amended Cross-Complaint.
 
On June 28,
2024, Plaintiffs dismissed their claims against Defendants Marilyn N. Knoop and
Benedetta Nardon. On September 3, 2024, the Court granted Defendants Benedetta Nardon and Marily Knoop’s Notice
of Settlement and Application to Determine Good Faith Settlement.
 
On February 28, 2024, filed the
operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging the following causes of
action:
1.     
Continuing Nuisance;
2.     
Permanent Nuisance;
3.     
Continuing Trespass;
4.     
Permanent Trespass;
5.     
Negligence;
6.     
Negligence Per Se;
7.     
Contribution;
8.     
Equitable Indemnity; and 
9.     
Declaratory Relief.
 
A.      Allegations
in the FAC
 
The FAC
alleges the following. 
 
Plaintiff
Joseph F. Farivar Investment Group, Inc. is the owner of real property located
at 4335 Valley Boulevard, Los Angeles, California 90032 ("4335 Valley
Boulevard" or "Farivar Property"). Plaintiff Bordan Shoe
Company, Inc. is the current lessee and occupant of 4335 Valley Boulevard.
 
Defendants
are current and former owners and/or operators of the real property at 1919
Vineburn Avenue, Los Angeles, California 90032 (the "Nardon
Facility"). The Nardon Facility is the former location of the Nardon
Manufacturing Company, which conducted on-site metal fabrication. The Nardon
Facility is physically adjacent to 4335 Valley Boulevard. The Nardon Facility
is also upgradient from 4335 Valley Boulevard, meaning that groundwater flows
from the Nardon Facility toward 4335 Valley Boulevard.
 
Defendants
and/or their predecessors in interest caused or permitted hazardous substance
contamination to the soil, soil vapor, and groundwater at the Nardon Facility.
Contaminated groundwater at the Nardon Facility then migrated, and continues to
migrate, to the groundwater beneath the Farivar Property.
 
Plaintiffs
bring this Complaint to recover damages and other appropriate relief resulting
from the migration of contamination from the Nardon Facility to the Farivar
Property.
 
B.      Plaintiffs’
Motion for Summary Adjudication 
 
On
June 5, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the instant Motion for Summary Adjudication,
arguing:
·       Plaintiffs
move for summary adjudication of their first, third, fifth, sixth and ninth
causes of action against Defendants HPC Vineburn, LLC, Meruelo Maddux
Properties, Benedetta Nardon and Marylin Knoop.
·      
The Statements Contained in the 2020 Subsurface Report Constitute
Party Admissions of HPC Vineburn 
·      
The Undisputed Facts Establish Plaintiffs’ Claims for Continuing
Nuisance and Trespass
o   Discharges of
waste, including 1,4-dioxane, occurred at the adjacent Nardon Facility while it was owned and operated by the Nardon
Manufacturing Company prior to 1989. SUF 8-13. Since then, that Contamination
has migrated and continues to migrate from the Nardon Facility to 4335 Valley
Boulevard. SUF 24-35. Defendant HPC
Vineburn currently owns the adjacent Nardon Facility. SUF 5-6. Defendants
Meruelo Maddux, Nardon, and Knoop owned the Nardon Facility after the Nardon
Manufacturing Company. SUF 61, 71, 81. 
o   This
constitutes an invasion onto, and an interference with, Plaintiffs’ enjoyment
and use of their property. Martin Marietta Corp. v. Ins. Co. of N. Am.,
40 Cal. App. 4th 1113, 1132 (1995) (“The migration of pollutants from one
property to another may constitute a trespass, a nuisance, or both.”)
o   Here,
Defendants are liable for the Contamination because it occurred—and
migrated—during their ownership of the Nardon Facility, and because they
constitute successive legal owners to the Nardon Manufacturing Company.
o   This nuisance
and trespass have caused damage to Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs will need to
remediate the property (SUF 36-41) at a cost of $11,779,000 (SUF 47-49). The
Contamination is continuing in nature.
·      
Plaintiffs are Entitled to Summary Adjudication on the Fifth Cause
of Action for Negligence
o   Defendants
Have a Duty of Care to Prevent Contamination to Plaintiffs’ Adjacent Property. Defendants
own or have owned the Nardon Facility after the Nardon Manufacturing Company’s
operations there. SUF 5-6, 61, 71, 81.
o   Defendants
Breached Their Duty by Allowing Contamination to Migrate to Plaintiffs’
Property.
o   Defendants’
Breaches Have Caused Plaintiffs’ Damages.
·      
Plaintiffs are Entitled to Summary Adjudication on the Sixth Cause
of Action for Negligence Per Se.
o   Defendants
Violated Multiple Statutes. Defendants
remain subject to statutory obligations, including, but not limited to:
California Civil Code § 3479 (creating a nuisance), 5 California Water Code §
13350 (unauthorized
discharges of waste and hazardous substances), 6 California Health & Safety
Code § 5411 (“No person shall discharge sewage or other waste, or the effluent
of treated sewage or waste, in any manner which will result in contamination,
pollution or a nuisance”), and California Health & Safety Code § 25249.5
(discharge of cancerous or toxic chemicals into water)
·      
Plaintiffs are Entitled to Summary Adjudication on the Ninth Cause
of Action for Declaratory Relief.
o   Plaintiffs
seek a declaration that Defendants are responsible and liable for the
Contamination migrating from the Nardon Facility to 4335 Valley Boulevard, and
that Defendants are responsible and liable for Plaintiffs’ resulting damages.
First Am. Compl. ¶¶ 77, 81.
o   It is
undisputed that an actual controversy exists between Plaintiffs and Defendants
on these points.
o  
Plaintiffs are entitled to summary adjudication of their
declaratory relief claim, and, specifically, a judicial declaration that: (a)
Defendants are the cause of the Contamination, (b) Defendants are responsible
for Plaintiffs’ costs of remediating the Contamination, or, alternatively,
Defendants are required to remediate the Contamination within a timeframe set
by the Court, and (c) Defendants are responsible for Plaintiffs’ damages for
loss of use of 4335 Valley Boulevard.
 
Defendant
HPC Vineburn, LLC filed an opposition, arguing: 
·      
Genuine Issues of Material Fact Preclude Summary Adjudication of Plaintiffs’
Causes of Action for Negligence, Negligence Per Se, Continuing Nuisance,
Continuing Trespass, and Declaratory Relief.
o   Because HPC
Has Presented Evidence That 1,1,1-Trichloroethane (1,1,1-TCA) Was Historically
Used on Plaintiffs’ Property, There Are Genuine Issues of Material Fact on
Causation, Thus Requiring Denial of Plaintiffs’ Motion as to Each Cause of
Action.
§  HPC presents
evidence that former operations on Plaintiffs’ property itself, the Square D
Property, contributed directly to the presence of 1,1-DCA in groundwater, thus
creating a genuine issue of material fact on causation of Plaintiffs claimed
damages that precludes summary adjudication.
§  The former
operator of the Square D Property, Alba Industries, utilized spray equipment
using “adhesives compounded with 1,1,1-trichloroethane and/or methylene
chloride.” Love Decl., ¶ 14 and Exhibit D
o   There Are
Genuine Issues of Material Fact as to the Equitable Allocation and Amount of
Plaintiffs’ Alleged Damages, Thus Requiring Denial of Plaintiffs’ Motion as to
Each Cause of Action.
§  Neither the
Square D Property nor the Nardon Property has been investigated fully to enable
a cleanup remedy to be fully designed. Love Decl., ¶ 21. In addition, the RWQCB
has not determined what the requirements will be for cleanup of groundwater
from these locations. Id.
§  Plaintiffs’
expert, Steven Luis, has opined that 1,4-dioxane groundwater cleanup costs are
expected to be $11,779,000 (with an additional contingency of $2.4 million.) Mr.
Luis’ inefficient technical approach does not meet with the standards of
practice in the environmental industry, his estimated costs are inefficient and
overly conservative, and thus excessive and unreasonable. Love Decl., ¶ 26.
·      
Plaintiffs Have No Evidence to Support the Key Element of Breach
of Any Duty to Support Their Negligence and Negligence Per Se Causes of Action
o   They present
no evidence to establish, nor could they in good faith allege, that HPC
conducted any operations on the Nardon Property that caused discharge of any
substance.
o   Plaintiffs
cite no evidence to support the assertion that HPC failed to take any steps
available to it to prevent migration.
·      
Plaintiffs’ Motion as to its Causes of Action for Continuing
Nuisance and Continuing Trespass Must Be Denied Because the Evidence
Establishes There Is No Continuing Nuisance or Trespass Under the Law.
o   The alleged
nuisance and trespass are permanent, not continuing.
o   HPC’s
predecessors ceased operating the property for metal fabrication involving use
of 1,1,1-dichloroethane by 1989. SUF 6-9. Thus, the activities that caused the
alleged nuisance ceased decades before Plaintiff filed suit, although some of
the contamination is located beneath the Square D property. HPC has been
investigating and working to address the historic contamination for years. SUF
14-16.
·      
Plaintiffs’ Motion Must Be Denied as to the Declaratory Relief
Cause of Action Because its Other Claims Fail and Declaratory Relief Is Not
Available Without a Remedy.
o   Courts have
typically only awarded declaratory relief where a remedy has been selected,
substantial remedial work has already been done, and the defendant is clearly
responsible for the future work. In cases where it is unclear what future work
will be conducted, courts have refused to award declaratory relief.
o  
Here, site investigation is not even complete, equitable
apportionment of anticipated remediation costs as between Plaintiffs, HPC, and
others has not been determined, and the Regional Board has not approved a plan
for remediation. Love Decl., ¶ 21. Accordingly, on this record, Plaintiffs
cannot establish a right to declaratory relief.
 
Plaintiffs
filed a reply, arguing:
·      
First, HPC’s historical evidence—purported South Coast Air Quality
Management District (“SCAQMD”) materials and a 1993 Phase I report—is
unauthenticated and constitutes inadmissible hearsay. But even if the Court
admits this evidence, it relates to a different property not at issue here, and
it does not show a “release” occurred (“use” is different from “release”). It
also does not create a dispute of fact whether contamination has migrated from
HPC’s property to Plaintiffs’ property, which HPC admits. Therefore, these
documents do not create a material dispute of fact precluding summary
adjudication.
·      
Second, even if HPC’s historical evidence is admissible (it is
not), at most it shows that another party (not Plaintiffs) may have contributed
to a “co-mingled” plume on Plaintiffs’ property. That does not relieve HPC of
liability or create a material issue of fact, as HPC would be a joint tortfeasor and would remain fully liable to Plaintiffs.
·       Third, HPC’s
expert, Dr. Love, purports to disagree with Plaintiffs on the cost (but not the
necessity) of a remediation. However, his opinion is supported only by a
one-page spreadsheet of ipse dixit, without an explanation of the methodology
used or how he arrived at his conclusions. It is thus inadmissible. See Sargon
Enterprises, Inc. v. Univ. of S. California, 55 Cal. 4th 747, 771 (2012) (trial
court is “gatekeeper” to exclude unreliable expert opinion). But even if
admitted, and even if there is a dispute of fact as to the amount of damages,
there is not a material dispute as to Plaintiffs’ entitlement to injunctive and
declaratory relief.
 
Defendant
Meruelo Maddux did not file an opposition.
 
Defendants
Benedetta Nardon and Marylin Knoop were dismissed on June 28, 2024.
 
DISCUSSION
 
A.      Legal
Standard for Motion for Summary Adjudication
 
Motions for summary adjudication are
procedurally identical to motions for summary judgment. (Serri v. Santa
Clara University (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 830, 859.) “A party may move for summary
adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more
affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of
duty, if that party contends that the cause of action has no merit or that
there is no affirmative defense thereto, or that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, or both, or that there is no
merit to a claim for damages . . . or that one or more defendants either owed
or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs. A motion for summary
adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of
action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”
(Code of Civ. Proc., §¿437c,¿subd. (f)(1).)¿
 
A plaintiff moving for summary
judgment/summary adjudication bears the initial burden of showing that “there
is no defense to a cause of action if that party has proved each element of the
cause of action entitling the party to judgment on the cause of action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) “Plaintiff's¿initial¿burden¿of proof in
moving for summary judgment, however, d[oes] not include disproving any
affirmative defenses asserted by defendants.”  (Oldcastle Precast, Inc. v.
Lumbermens Mutual Casualty Co.¿(2009) 170 Cal.App.4th 554, 564, citing Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 853 (“Aguilar”) [“summary judgment
law in this state no longer requires a¿plaintiff¿moving for summary judgment to
disprove any defense asserted by the defendant as well as prove each element of
his own cause of action.... All that the¿plaintiff¿need do is to ‘prove[ ] each element of the cause of action’ ”])  Once Plaintiff meets its
initial burden of proving each element of the cause of action, “the burden shifts
to the defendant “to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to that cause of action¿or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) 
 
As noted in Aguilar,
“the party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to
make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material
fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the
opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a
prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material
fact.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 850.)  Thus, courts
usually follow a three-step analysis: “First, we identify the issues framed by
the pleadings . . . . [¶] Secondly, we determine whether the moving party’s
showing has established facts which negate the opponent’s claim and justify a
judgment in movant’s favor. . . . [¶] When a . . . motion prima facie justifies
a judgment, the third and final step is to determine whether the opposition
demonstrates the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”  (Ojavan
Investors, Inc. v. Cal. Coastal Comm. (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 373, 385
[citation and footnote omitted].) 
  
Opposing
parties must present substantial evidence in order to avoid summary
judgment.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,
163.)  “In some instances…, ‘evidence may be so lacking in probative value
that it fails to raise any triable issue.’”  (Whitmire v.
Ingersoll-Rand Co. (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1078, 1083-1084.)  “A
complete failure of proof concerning an essential element of the nonmoving
party's case necessarily renders all other facts immaterial.”  (Hunter
v. Pacific Mechanical Corp (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1282, 1286, disapproved on
other grounds by Aguilar, supra, at 865; accord Saelzler v. Advanced
Group 400 (2001) 25 Cal.4th 763, 780 [“‘If the plaintiff is unable to meet
her burden of proof regarding an essential element of her case, all other facts
are rendered immaterial.’”].) 
 
Courts
“construe the moving party's affidavits strictly, construe the opponent's
affidavits liberally, and resolve doubts about the¿propriety¿of granting the
motion in favor of the party opposing it.’” (Unilab Corp.v. Angeles-IPA
(2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 622, 636; internal citation omitted.) 
“The court focuses on issue finding; it does not resolve issues of fact. The
court seeks to find contradictions in the evidence, or inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence, which raise a triable issue of material
fact.”  (Johnson v. United Cerebral Palsy, etc. (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 740, 754; internal citation omitted.)   
"[S]ummary judgment cannot be granted when the facts are susceptible [of]
more than one reasonable inference...” (Rosas v. BASF Corp.¿(2015) 236
Cal.App.4th 1378, 1392.) 
 
B.      Request for
Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiffs
request the Court take judicial notice of the following requests 1-7: 
1.      Order from
the Los Angeles Regional Water Quality Control Board, “Requirement for
Technical Report Pursuant to California Water Code Section 13267 Order No.
R4-2018-0150,” dated November 19, 2018.
2.      Order from
the Los Angeles Regional Water Quality Control Board, “Requirement to Submit a
Work Plan for Additional Assessment Pursuant to California Water Code Section
13267, Order Number R4-2018-0150,” dated September 27, 2023.
3.      Grant Deed
for 1919 Vineburn Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90032, whereby Meruelo Maddux
Properties-1919 Vineburn Street, LLC granted the property to HPC Vineburn, LLC
dated April 15, 2013, and recorded on April 16, 2013.
4.      Grant Deed
for 1919 Vineburn Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90032, whereby Vineburn Property, LLC
granted the property to Meruelo Maddux Properties-1919 Vineburn Street, LLC,
dated September 15, 2005, and recorded on December 16, 2005.
5.      Grant Deed
for 1919 Vineburn Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90032, whereby Benedetta Nardon and
Marilyn Knoop and others granted the property to Vineburn Property, LLC, dated
April 28, 1999, and recorded on May 12, 1999.
6.      Grant Deed
for 1919 Vineburn Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90032, whereby Nardon Manufacturing
Company granted the property to Benedetta Nardon and Marilyn Knoop and others,
dated February 7, 1989, and recorded on February 7, 1989.
7.      Permit to
Operate a degreaser, issued by the South Coast Air Quality Management District
(“SCAQMD”), issued to the Nardon Manufacturing Company, Inc. in 1987 for
equipment at 1919 Vineburn Avenue, Los Angeles, California.
 
Defendant HPC
Vineburn requests the Court take judicial notice of the following: 
1.      Permit to
Operate issued by the South Coast Air Quality Management District (“SCAQMD”) to
Alba Industries for equipment at 4301 Valley Boulevard, Los Angeles, California.
2.      Summary of
Change of Location and Change of Ownership for Alba Industries.
3.      1992
hazardous materials inventory for Alba Industries documented in the 1993 Phase
I Environmental Assessment.
4.      Subject Site
Diagram documented in the 1993 Phase I Environmental Assessment.
5.      “Phase I
Environmental Assessment, Alba Industries, 4335 Valley Boulevard, Los Angeles,
California” prepared by Smith-Emery Company and dated January 14, 1993.
 
The
court may take judicial notice
of “official acts of the legislative, executive, and judicial departments of
the United States and of any state of the United States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any
court of this state or (2) any court of record of the United States or of any
state of the United States,” and “[f]acts and propositions that are not
reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate
determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.” (Evid.
Code § 452, subds. (c), (d), and (h).)¿¿ “Where judicial
notice is requested of a legally operative document—like a contract—the court
may take notice not only of the fact of the document and its recording or
publication, but also facts that clearly derive from its legal effect.” (Scott
v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal. App. 4th 743, 751.)
 
The Court grants
judicial notice of Plaintiffs’ requests 1-7. The Court grants judicial notice
of Defendant’s request 1 and denies judicial notice of requests 2-5. 
 
However, the
court only takes judicial notice of the foregoing documents only as to “the
existence, content and authenticity of public records and other specified
documents”; it does not take judicial notice of the truth of the factual
matters asserted in those documents. (Dominguez v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal.
App. 5th 389, 400.)¿ 
 
C.      Evidentiary
Objections
 
The Court rules on Defendant’s objections to Plaintiffs’ evidence in
support of their Motion for Summary Adjudication as follows:
                                                              
i.     
Declaration of Joseph F. Farivar
 
·      
Nos. 1-5: Overruled.
 
                                                            
ii.     
Declaration of Steven J. Luis, C.E., P.E.
 
·      
Nos. 1-18: Overruled.
 
                                                          
iii.     
Declaration of Bradley E. Lofgren
 
·      
No. 1: Sustained (Lacks foundation, no
personal knowledge).
·      
Nos. 2-7: Overruled.
 
                                                          
iv.     
Declaration of Sean A. McCormick
 
·      
Nos. 1-5: Overruled.
The Court rules on Plaintiffs’ objections to Defendant’s evidence in
support of their opposition to Plaintiffs’ Motion for Summary Adjudication as
follows:
                                                            
v.     
Declaration of Adam Love
 
·      
No. 1: Sustained (Lack of Foundation.)
·      
No. 2: Overruled.
·      
No. 3-4:  Sustained (Lack of Foundation.)
·      
No. 5-6: Sustained (Exhibit not properly
authenticated. Cal. Evid. Code, § 1401.)
·      
No. 7: Sustained (Hearsay.) 
·      
No. 8-9: 
Sustained (Lack of Foundation, Exhibit not properly authenticated. Cal.
Evid. Code, § 1401.)
·      
No. 10: Overruled.
·      
No. 11: 
Sustained (Lack of Foundation, Exhibit not properly authenticated. Cal.
Evid. Code, § 1401.)
·      
No. 12-13: 
Sustained (Lack of Foundation.)
·      
No. 14-15: Overruled.
·      
No. 16: Sustained (Lack of Foundation.)
·      
No. 17-23: Overruled.
·      
No. 24-28: Sustained (Exhibit not properly
authenticated. Cal. Evid. Code, § 1401.)
·      
No. 29: Overruled.
 
                                                          
vi.     
Declaration of Brian M. Ledger
 
·      
No. 1-11: Sustained (Exhibits not properly
authenticated. Cal. Evid. Code, § 1401.)
 
D.    
Procedural
Deficiencies
 
Defendant HPC
Vineburn requests that the Court strike Plaintiffs’ Reply Separate Statement
because no such filing is permitted by the Code of Civil Procedure. 
 
The Court agrees.
Plaintiffs’ Reply Separate Statement, filed on September 18, 2024, is STRICKEN
from the record and disregarded as the Rules of Court do not provide for Reply
Separate Statements. (See Nazir v. United Airlines, Inc. (2009) 178
Cal.App.4th 243, 252, 291.) There
are good reasons for the omission of reply separate statements from the Rules
of Court. A separate statement is a summary document which requires direct and
precise citation to supporting evidence. But new evidence cannot be submitted
on reply. The only other use for a reply separate statement is to submit
additional argument, which belongs in the reply memorandum. That document is
limited to 10 pages by California Rules of Court Rule 3.1113(d). A reply
separate statement thus has no licit use; it is either a conduit for improper
submission of evidence or
an end-run on page limits.
 
Thus, Plaintiffs’
Reply Separate Statement, filed on September 18, 2024, is STRICKEN from the
record.
 
E.     
Defendants
Benedetta Nardon and Marylin Knoop
 
As
an initial matter, the Court notes that Plaintiffs’ Motion for Summary
Adjudication of claims against Defendants Benedetta Nardon and Marylin Knoop is
MOOT. Plaintiffs dismissed their claims against Defendants Benedetta Nardon and
Marylin Knoop on June 28, 2024, after the filing of the instant motion. Since Plaintiffs settled and dismissed claims against those Defendants,
the Court need not analyze the Motion with respect to those Defendants.
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiffs’ Motion for Summary Adjudication of the first, third, fifth, sixth
and ninth causes of action against Defendants Benedetta Nardon and Marylin
Knoop is MOOT.
 
A.      First and
Third Causes of Action: Continuing Nuisance and Continuing Trespass
 
Plaintiffs assert they are entitled to summary
adjudication on the Continuing Nuisance and Trespass causes of action against
Defendants HPC Vineburn
and Meruelo Maddux.
 
To
establish an action for private nuisance, (1) “the plaintiff must prove an
interference with his use and enjoyment of his property”; (2) “the invasion of
the plaintiff’s interest in the use and enjoyment of the land must be
substantial, that is, that it causes the plaintiff to suffer substantial actual
damage”; (3) “the interference with the protected interest must not only be
substantial, but it must also be unreasonable, i.e., it must be of such a
nature, duration, or amount as to constitute unreasonable interference with the
use and enjoyment of the land.”  (Mendez
v. Rancho Valencia Resort Partners, LLC (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 248, 262-263,
cleaned up.)

 
“The elements of trespass are: (1) the
plaintiff's ownership or control of the property; (2) the defendant's
intentional, reckless, or negligent entry onto the property; (3) lack of
permission for the entry or acts in excess of permission; (4) harm; and (5) the
defendant's conduct was a substantial factor in causing the harm.” (Ralphs
Grocery Co. v. Victory Consultants, Inc. (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 245,
262.) 
 
A trespass on real property may be either continuing or
permanent. (Beck Development Co. v. Southern Pacific Transportation Co.
(1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1160, 1219-1222.) “Continuing trespasses are essentially
a series of successive injuries, and the statute of limitations begins anew
with each injury.” (Starrh & Starrh Cotton Growers v. Aera Energy LLC (2007)
153 Cal.App.4th 583, 592.)
 
Nuisances may also be continuing or permanent depending on
“the type of harm suffered.” (Baker, v. Burbank-Glendale-Pasadena Airport
Authority (1985) 39 Cal.3d 862, 866.) Continuing nuisances involve ongoing
or repeated disturbances caused by noise, vibrations, or foul odor and may be
abated at any time. (Baker, 39 Cal.3d at p. 868.) Moreover, there is no
statute of limitations for continuing trespass and continuing nuisance. (See Starrh,
153 Cal.App.4th at p. 592.; Lyle v. State of California (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 281, 291. )
 
Here, Plaintiff has pled in its FAC that Defendants and/or their predecessors in interest caused or
permitted hazardous substance contamination to the soil, soil vapor, and
groundwater at the Nardon Facility. Contaminated groundwater at the Nardon
Facility then migrated, and continues to migrate, to the groundwater beneath
the Farivar Property. Plaintiffs assert that this contamination constitutes an
invasion onto, and an interference with, Plaintiffs’ enjoyment and use of their
property. Plaintiffs contend Defendants are liable for the Contamination
because it occurred—and migrated—during their ownership of the Nardon Facility,
and because they constitute successive legal owners to the Nardon Manufacturing
Company.
 
In support, Plaintiffs rely on a 2020 Subsurface
Report. HPC Vineburn retained Hazard Management Consulting, Inc.
(“HMC”) to conduct a subsurface investigation and prepare a report. (McCormick
Decl. ¶ 10, Ex. 9.) To prepare the 2020 Subsurface Report, HMC obtained and
analyzed samples of soil, soil gas, and groundwater at the Nardon Facility. (McCormick
Decl. ¶¶ 2, 9, Ex. 1, pp. 7-14.) The 2020 Subsurface Report revealed that soil
and groundwater contamination at the Nardon Facility has migrated to the
subsurface at the Farivar Property. (McCormick Decl. ¶¶ 2, 9, Ex. 1, p. 20.)
The 2020 Subsurface Report states in relevant part:
 
“The site was formerly used as a
metal fabricator for the aerospace industry. Although previous investigations
indicated residual concentrations of VOCs, no samples were analyzed for
1,4-dioxane. 
Based on this information and
historical land use, the LARWQCB requested soil, soil gas, and groundwater
samples to be collected at the site to further assess whether the site had
contributed to the TCE and 1,4-dioxane issue at the adjacent property. 
 
Based on the results of the soil,
soil gas, and groundwater investigations completed at the site, elevated
concentrations of 1,4-dioxane have been detected in the vicinity of the Former
Clarifier; a possible onsite source. Other chemicals, such as 1,1-DCE and PCE,
were also noted in soil gas and groundwater collected throughout the area of
former chemical use and former manufacturing area of the site. Based on this
information, it appears that the site has contributed to the 1,4-dioxane
groundwater issues at the Former Square D Facility, and to a lesser extent the
residual 1,1-DCE and PCE at that property. Much lower concentrations of TCE
have been reported in groundwater beneath the site than those on the Former
Square D Facility. Petroleum hydrocarbons and metals do not appear to be a
concern at the site.”
 
(McCormick Decl. ¶¶ 2, 9, Ex. 1, pp. 19-20.)
 
Plaintiffs assert that Defendants have failed to
remediate the contamination. In support, Plaintiffs submit emails from Justin Schnuelle, a representative of
HPC Vineburn, stating that remediation will need to be done to clean up the
ground water at Plaintiffs’ property and the Nardon Facility. (Luis Decl. ¶¶
38- 39; Ex. 15-18.) Plaintiffs contend they will need to remediate the property
at a cost of $11,779,000. (Luis Decl., ¶¶ 40-56.) Plaintiffs also assert that
as a result of needing to remediate the property, Plaintiff Bordan will lose
use of the property during the remedial work which damages Bordan in the amount
of $192,887. (Lofgren Decl. ¶¶ 11-12.)
 
Here, the Court finds Plaintiffs have carried
their initial burden. Plaintiffs have provided evidence that contaminated groundwater at the Nardon Facility migrated, and
continues to migrate, to the groundwater beneath the Farivar Property. Plaintiffs
have shown the contamination constitutes continuing nuisance and trespass. (Martin
Marietta Corp. v. Ins. Co. of N. Am., 40 Cal. App. 4th 1113, 1132 (1995)
(“The migration of pollutants from one property to another may constitute a
trespass, a nuisance, or both.”); Resol. Tr. Corp. v. Rossmoor Corp., 34
Cal. App. 4th 93, 99 (1995) (“Failure to clean up contamination causing ongoing
damage to property has been held to constitute such a nuisance. . . . Likewise,
the same conduct gives rise to an action for continuing trespass.) (citations
omitted).) Plaintiffs also provide evidence that the contamination can be
remediated, that Defendants have failed to remediate the contamination, and
Plaintiffs have been harmed. 
 
Therefore,
the burden shifts to Defendants. 
 
Defendant HPC
Vineburn argues in opposition that former operations on Plaintiffs’ property contributed
directly to the presence of 1,1-DCA in groundwater, thus creating a genuine
issue of material fact on causation of Plaintiffs claimed damages that
precludes summary adjudication. HPC Vineburn argues that the former operator of
Plaintiffs’ Property, Alba Industries, utilized spray equipment using adhesives
compounded with 1,1,1-trichloroethane and/or methylene chloride. In support,
Defendants submit a Permit to Operate issued by the South Coast Air Quality
Management District (“SCAQMD”) to Alba Industries for equipment at 4301 Valley
Boulevard, Los Angeles, California, the property adjacent to Plaintiffs’
property. However, the Court does not find that HPC Vineburn has sufficiently
authenticated the evidence it relies upon. (Cal. Evid. Code, § 1401, Ledger Decl., ¶¶ 2-6, Exs. D-I.) No declaration from an
SCAQMD custodian accompanies the records, and no evidence suggests how the
records came to exist or were obtained. Since the documents have not been
sufficiently authenticated, the Court will not consider it. In HPC Vineburn’s
motion, it also argues that the alleged nuisance and trespass are not
continuing, but permanent. HPC Vineburn contends the court in Mangini v.
Aerojet-General Corp. stated that “the crucial distinction between a
permanent and continuing nuisance is whether the nuisance may be discontinued
or abated” at any time. (Mangini v. Aerojet-General Corp. (1991) 230
Cal.App.3d 1125, 1146.) However, HPC Vineburn fails to provide any evidence or
facts in support of its assertion that the nuisance is permanent. As discussed
above, Plaintiffs provided evidence that the contamination can be remediated
and abated. (Luis Decl., ¶¶ 40-56.) Finally, HPC Vineburn also argues that there are
issues of material fact as to Plaintiffs’ claimed damages. However, HPC
Vineburn does not present any admissible evidence in support. Based on the
foregoing, the Court does not find HPC Vineburn has carried its burden. 
 
Defendant
Meruelo Maddux did not file an opposition to Plaintiffs’ motion. Opposing parties must present substantial evidence in order to
avoid summary judgment.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th
151, 163.)  Since Defendant Meruelo Maddux fails
to present any opposition or evidence to Plaintiff’s motion, Defendant Meruelo
Maddux fails to carry its burden of establishing a triable issue of material
fact. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ motion for summary adjudication as to
the first and third causes of action against Defendants HPC Vineburn and
Meruelo Maddux is GRANTED.
 
B.      Fifth Cause
of Action: Negligence
 
Plaintiffs assert they are entitled to summary
adjudication on its Negligence cause of action against Defendants HPC Vineburn
and Meruelo Maddux.
 
In order to state a claim for negligence, Plaintiff must
allege the elements of (1) “the existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach
of that duty,” and (3) “proximate cause resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre
v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.) 
 
The FAC alleges that Defendants and/or their predecessors in
interest owed a duty of care in handling, storing, and using hazardous and
contaminating substantives at the Nardon Facility. The FAC further alleges that
Defendants and/or their predecessors in interest also owed a duty of care in
preventing hazardous and contaminating substances from migrating onto the
Farivar Property. The FAC further alleges that Defendants and/or their
predecessors in interest breached their duty of care by releasing, allowing the
release of, or failing to prevent the release of, the Contamination, and/or by
allowing the Contamination to migrate to the Farivar Property or failing to
prevent the same.
 
As discussed
above, Plaintiffs have provided evidence that contaminated groundwater at the
Nardon Facility then migrated, and continues to migrate, to the groundwater
beneath the Farivar Property. (McCormick
Decl. ¶¶ 2, 9, Ex. 1, p. 20.) Plaintiffs also provide evidence that the
contamination can be remediated, that Defendants have failed to remediate the
contamination, and Plaintiffs have been harmed. (Luis Decl., ¶¶ 40-56, Luis Decl., ¶¶ 40-56.) Thus, the Court
finds Plaintiffs have carried their initial burden. 
 
In Defendant HPC Vineburn’s opposition, it argues that
Plaintiff has not shown that HPC Vineburn breached a duty. However, Plaintiffs
have submitted evidence that the
contamination can be remediated and that Defendants have failed to remediate
the contamination. HPC Vineburn does not present admissible evidence
establishing a triable issue of material fact. Thus, HPC Vineburn has not
carried its burden as to the fifth cause of action. 
 
Since
Defendant Meruelo Maddux did not file an opposition to Plaintiffs’ motion,
Meruelo Maddux also fails to carry its burden of establishing a triable issue
of material fact. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ motion for summary adjudication as to
the fifth cause of action against Defendants HPC Vineburn and Meruelo
Maddux is
GRANTED.
 
C.      Sixth Cause
of Action: Negligence Per Se
 
Plaintiffs assert they are entitled to summary
adjudication on its Negligence Per Se cause of action against Defendants HPC Vineburn
and Meruelo Maddux.
 
“The negligence per se doctrine, as codified in
Evidence Code section 669, creates a presumption of negligence if four elements
are established: (1) the defendant violated a statute, ordinance, or regulation
of a public entity; (2) the violation proximately caused death or injury to
person or property; (3) the death or injury resulted from an occurrence of the
nature of which the statute, ordinance, or regulation was designed to prevent;
and (4) the person suffering the death or the injury to his person or property
was one of the class of persons for whose protection the statute, ordinance, or
regulation was adopted.”  (Spates v.
Dameron Hospital Association (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 208, 218, cleaned
up.)  “The doctrine of negligence per se
is not a separate cause of action[] but creates an evidentiary presumption that
affects the standard of care in a cause of action for negligence.”  (Johnson v. Honeywell International Inc. (2009)
179 Cal.App.4th 549, 555, cleaned up.)
 
The FAC
alleges Defendants and/or their predecessors in interest, through their acts
and/or omissions, created the Contamination and have allowed the Contamination
to migrate from the Nardon Facility to the subsurface beneath the Farivar
Property. Such actions
or omissions violate California Civil Code § 3479 (creating a nuisance),
California Water Code § 13350 (unauthorized discharges of waste and hazardous
substances), California Health & Safety Code § 5411 (discharging sewage,
waste, or effluent in a manner causing "contamination, pollution or a
nuisance"); and California Health & Safety Code § 25249.5 (discharge
of cancerous or toxic chemicals into water), among other statutes and
regulations. As a direct
and proximate result, Plaintiffs have been damaged in an amount to be
determined at trial.
 
Based on the
Court’s findings above, Plaintiff has carried its initial burden as to its
sixth cause of action. Plaintiffs have presented evidence that contaminated
groundwater at the Nardon Facility migrated, and continues to migrate, to the
groundwater beneath the Farivar Property. (McCormick Decl. ¶¶ 2, 9, Ex. 1, p. 20.) Defendants’ discharge of the contamination
constitutes a violation of each of the statutes listed above.
 
In opposition, Defendant HPC Vineburn presents the same
argument that Plaintiffs have not established HPC Vineburn has breached any statute.
However, as discussed above, HPC Vineburn fails to present any admissible
evidence in support. Thus, HPC Vineburn failed to carry its burden.
 
Since
Defendant Meruelo Maddux did not file an opposition to Plaintiffs’ motion,
Meruelo Maddux also fails to carry its burden of establishing a triable issue
of material fact. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ motion for summary adjudication as to
the sixth cause of action against Defendants HPC Vineburn and Meruelo
Maddux is
GRANTED.
 
D.     Ninth Cause
of Action: Declaratory Relief
 
Plaintiffs assert they are entitled to summary
adjudication on its Declaratory Relief cause of action against Defendants HPC Vineburn
and Meruelo Maddux.
 
“To
qualify for declaratory relief, a party would have to demonstrate its action
presented two essential elements: (1) a proper subject of declaratory relief,
and (2) an actual controversy involving justiciable questions relating to the
party’s rights or obligations.” (Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013)
213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909, quotation marks and brackets omitted.) 
 
“Actual controversy” is a controversy which admits of
definitive and conclusive relief by judgment within the field of judicial
administration, as distinguished from an advisory opinion on a particular or
hypothetical state of facts. The judgment must decree, not suggest, what the
parties may or may not do. (Selby Realty Co. v. San Buenaventura (1973)
10 Cal.3d 110.) A mere difference of opinion is not an “actual controversy”
within §1060. The summary judgment procedure is appropriate in declaratory
relief actions since ‘The propriety of the application of declaratory relief
lies in the trial court's function to render such a judgment when only legal
issues are presented for its determination.’ (Spencer v. Hibernia Bank,
186 Cal.App.2d 702, 712.)
 
A
cause of action for declaratory relief should not be used as a second cause of
action for the determination of identical issues raised in another cause of
action. (General of America Insurance Co. v. Lilly (1968) 258 Cal.App.2d
465, 470.) “The availability of another form of relief that is adequate will
usually justify refusal to grant declaratory relief.” (California Insurance
Guarantee Association v. Superior Court (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1617, 1624.) Further,
“there is no basis for declaratory relief where only past wrongs are involved.”
(Osseous Technologies of America, Inc. v. DiscoveryOrtho Partners LLC
(2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 357, 366, quotation marks omitted.)
 
According to the FAC, Plaintiff requests a declaratory
judgment that: (a) Defendants are the cause of the Contamination; (b)
Defendants are solely responsible for Plaintiffs’ damages incurred as a result
of the Contamination, including but not limited to damages for the loss of use and enjoyment of 4335 Valley Boulevard; the
expenses of investigating and remediating the Contamination; diminution of 4335
Valley Boulevard's value; liabilities to third parties, including the
applicable governmental agencies arising from Contamination; and all other
monetary damages; (c) Plaintiffs are not liable for any such damages; and (d)
Defendants must remediate the Contamination on 4335 Valley Boulevard within a
timeframe as ordered by the Court.
 
Based on the Court’s findings
above, Plaintiff has carried its initial burden as to its ninth cause of
action. Plaintiffs have presented evidence that that an actual controversy
exists between Plaintiffs and Defendants. Plaintiffs have asserted that contaminated
groundwater at the Nardon Facility migrated, and continues to migrate, to the
groundwater beneath the Farivar Property. (McCormick
Decl. ¶¶ 2, 9, Ex. 1, p. 20.) Plaintiffs also provide evidence that the
contamination can be remediated, that Defendants have failed to remediate the
contamination, and Plaintiffs have been harmed. (Luis
Decl., ¶¶ 40-56, Luis Decl., ¶¶ 40-56.)
 
In opposition, Defendant HPC Vineburn argues that the Court should
refuse to award declaratory relief because it is unclear what future work will
be conducted. HPC Vineburn asserts that declaratory relief “is not appropriate
because the [Los Angeles Regional Water Quality Control Board] has not selected
a remedy.” (Oppos., p. 16.) However, HPC Vineburn does not cite to any
authority that supports its argument that this would preclude Plaintiffs from
seeking summary adjudication. Thus, the Court does not find HPC Vineburn’s
argument persuasive, and it fails to carry its burden. 
 
Since
Defendant Meruelo Maddux did not file an opposition to Plaintiffs’ motion,
Meruelo Maddux also fails to carry its burden of establishing a triable issue
of material fact. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ motion for summary adjudication as to
the ninth cause of action against Defendants HPC Vineburn and Meruelo
Maddux is
GRANTED.
 

DISPOSITION 
 
Plaintiffs’
Motion for Summary Adjudication of the first, third, fifth, sixth and ninth
causes of action against Defendants HPC Vineburn and Meruelo Maddux is GRANTED.
 
Plaintiffs’
Motion for Summary Adjudication of the first, third, fifth, sixth and ninth
causes of action against Defendants Benedetta Nardon and Marylin Knoop is MOOT.