 Case Number:  24STCV08225    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



MICHAEL
  SEVERO, JR., et al. 
                           
         vs.
 
THE
  ELITE GROUP PROPERTY INSPECTION SERVICE, et al. 
 


 Case No.: 
  24STCV08225  
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  September 24, 2024



 
Defendants’
motion to strike is GRANTED.  
 
            On
4/2/2024, Plaintiff Michael Severo, Jr. and Michelle Severo (collectively,
Plaintiffs) filed suit against the Elite Group Property Inspection Service,
Inc., Todd Smith, Media West Realty, Inc., Bryan C. Ochse, Compass California,
and Charles W. Clark, alleging: (1) breach of statutory duty; (2) breach of
fiduciary duty; (3) breach of contract; (4) negligence; (5) intentional
misrepresentation; (6) negligent misrepresentation; and (7) constructive
fraud.  
 
            Now,
Defendants Compass California, Inc. and Charles W. Clark (collectively,
Defendants) move to strike portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
 
            The
motion is unopposed. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Motions to strike are used to reach
defects or objections to pleadings that are not challengeable by demurrer, such
as words, phrases, and prayers for damages. (See Code Civ Proc., §§
435-437.)  A motion to strike can be made to strike irrelevant, false or
improper matter inserted in any pleading or to strike any pleading or part
thereof not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court
rule or order of the court.  (CCP § 436.) 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendants argue that Plaintiff has
not alleged any facts which could show entitlement
to recover their attorney’s fees. The Court agrees. 
            The
Court considers Plaintiff’s non-opposition to be a concession to Defendants’
motion on the merits. 
 
            Based on the foregoing, Defendants’
motion to strike is granted. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  September   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517. 
 
 