  Case Number:  21STCV36711    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   July
10, 2024                                      
 
CASE NAME:           Paula
York Herriott v. Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department
 
CASE NO.:                21STCV36711

 
(1)   MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO FILE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT;
(2)   MOTION
FOR ENTRY OF JUDGMENT PURSUANT TO CCP § 438(i)(1)(B)

 
MOVING PARTY:  
 
(1)   Plaintiff
Paula York Herriott
(2)   Defendant
County of Los Angeles erroneously sued as “Los Angeles County Sheriff’s
Department”
RESPONDING PARTY(S): None to either motion as of July
5, 2024.
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
Motion for Leave:
 
1.      An
Order granting leave for Plaintiff to file an Amended Complaint attaching a new
Exhibit.
Motion for Entry of
Judgment:
 
1.      An
Order entering judgment against Plaintiff in Defendant’s favor.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Motion
for Leave to Amend is DENIED;
2.      Motion
for Entry of Judgment is GRANTED.
 
 
 
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On October 5, 2021, Plaintiff Paula York Herriott
(Plaintiff) filed a Complaint against Defendant Los Angeles County Sheriff’s
Department (Defendant) with three causes of action for: (1) General Negligence
– Civil Rights Violation, (2) General Negligence – Defamation, and (3) General
Negligence – Emotional Distress. 
 
That same date, Plaintiff filed a second Complaint against
Defendant Catalina Island Company (Catalina) bearing Case No. 21STCV36719 for
the same alleged incident.
 
According to the Complaint, Defendant arrested Plaintiff on
October 5, 2019 resulting from an altercation where Plaintiff was attacked by a
third party. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant wrongfully arrested her, added
her information to their criminal databank, and exposed her private area to the
public during the arrest.
 
On January 6, 2022, Defendant filed an Answer.
 
On January 18, 2022, Defendant filed a Notie of Related Case
which was granted.
 
On March 16, 2022, Catalina filed an Answer.
 
On April 28, 2023, the parties filed a Stipulation to
Continue FSC, Trial and All Related Pre-Trial Motion/Discovery Deadlines which
the court GRANTED.
 
On February 22, 2024, Defendant filed a Motion for Judgment
on the Pleadings which the court GRANTED with leave to amend as to Government
Claim Act section 915, only. 
 
On May 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion for Leave to file
First Amended Complaint.
 
On May 20, 2024, Defendant filed a Motion for Entry of
Judgment in its Favor Pursuant to CCP § 438(i)(1)(B) for failure to amend.
 
Neither party filed oppositions to these motions.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Leave
to Amend
 
California Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) section 473,
subdivision (a)(1) provides, in relevant part: “The court may, in furtherance
of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any
pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by
correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect;
and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.¿ The court
may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon
any terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by this code.”¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
“This discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of
amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in
the same lawsuit.”¿ (Kittredge Sports Co.
v. Superior Court¿(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.)¿ Ordinarily, the court
will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in ruling on a
motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer or motion to strike are
premature.¿ The court, however, does have discretion to deny leave to amend
where a proposed amendment fails to state a valid cause of action as a matter
of law and the defect cannot be cured by further amendment.¿ (See¿California Casualty General Ins. Co. v.
Superior Court¿(1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281 (overruled on other grounds
by¿Kransco¿v. American Empire Surplus
Lines Ins. Co.¿(2000) 23 Cal.4th 390).)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Under California Rules of Court Rule (CRC), rule 3.1324,
subdivision (a), a motion to amend a pleading shall (1) include a copy of the
proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate
it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what allegations in the
previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3) state
what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are
located.¿¿  
¿¿ 
Under California Rule of Court, rule 3.1324, subdivision
(b), a separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify (1) the
effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3)
when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4)
the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.¿¿¿ 
 
Entry
of Judgment Pursuant to CCP § 438(i)(1)(B)
 
“Where a motion for judgment on the
pleadings is granted with leave to amend, the court shall not enter a judgment
in favor of a party until the following proceedings are had:
(A) If
an amended pleading is filed and the moving party contends that pleading is
filed after the time to file an amended pleading has expired or that the
pleading is in violation of the court’s prior ruling on the motion, then that
party shall move to strike the pleading and enter judgment in its favor.
(B)  If
no amended pleading is filed, then the party shall move for entry of judgment
in its favor.” (CCP § 438(i)(1)(A) & (B).) 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Leave to Amend
 
Plaintiff contends leave to amend is
warranted because the amendment will not prejudice Defendant and the failure to
attach the claim was excusable mistake. Defendant did not file an opposition.[1]
 
Here, Plaintiff did not comply with CRC rule 3.1324. Notably,
the motion does not include the proposed First Amended Complaint. Instead,
Plaintiff indicates the Complaint remains unchanged except for attaching a new
exhibit. (Mot. for Leave to Amend 3:18-23.) Additionally, Plaintiff’s
declaration does not comport to the requirements of CRC rule 3.1324(b).[2] However, the
court notes that Plaintiff previously had leave of court to amend her Complaint.[3] Therefore,
Plaintiff’s request to attach the proposed exhibit is in line with the scope of
the court’s leave to amend and so leave was not required. (See Patrick v. Alacer Corp. (2008) 167
Cal.App.4th 995, 1015.) Still, Plaintiff’s “proposed amendment” is incomplete.
(See State of California v. Superior
Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 1234, 1239 [concluding that failing to “allege
facts demonstrating or excusing compliance with the claim presentation
requirement subjects a claim against a public entity to a demurrer for failure
to state a cause of action.”]). In sum, the court cannot accept a proposed
amended complaint that contains no proposed factual amendments.
 
Accordingly, the court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion for leave to
amend.
 
Entry
of Judgment Pursuant to CCP § 438(i)(1)(B)
 
Defendant contends that Judgment should be
entered in its favor because Plaintiff did not amend the Complaint within 30
days from the court’s ruling on its motion for judgment on the pleadings.
Defendant further contends that Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend is an
attempt to relitigate the court’s prior ruling granting its Motion for Judgment
on the Pleadings. Plaintiff did not file an opposition.
 
“Where a motion is granted pursuant to this section with
leave to file an amended complaint or answer, as the case may be, then the
court shall grant 30 days to the party against whom the motion was granted to
file an amended complaint or answer, as the case may be.” (CCP § 438(h)(2).)
“If an amended complaint is filed after the time to file an amended complaint
has expired, then the court may strike the complaint pursuant to Section 436
and enter judgment in favor of that defendant against that plaintiff or a
plaintiff.” (Id. at subd.(h)(4).) 
 
Here, dismissal is warranted. As noted above, Plaintiff
intended to amend the Complaint to include an attachment that she appears to
claim supports compliance with the Government Claims Act. Defendant has not
provided authority that a pro se litigant who has indicated an intent to file
an amended complaint is subject to dismissal pursuant to CCP § 438(i)(1)(B).[4]
However, the statute is clear. “[If] the motion is granted with respect to the
entire complaint . . . with leave to file an amended complaint” but one is not
filed, “then after the time to file an amended complaint . . . has expired,
judgment shall be entered forthwith in favor of the moving party.” (CCP §
438(h)(4)(C).) “When a litigant is appearing in propria persona, he is entitled
to the same, but no greater, consideration than other litigants and attorneys.”
(Burnete v. La Casa Dana Apartments
(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 1262, 1267.) A pro se litigant “is held to the same
restrictive rules of procedure as an attorney.” (Ibid.) Here, the court granted Defendant’s Motion for Judgment on
the Pleadings on April 9, 2024. (Declaration of Anita Susan Brenner (Brenner
Decl.) ¶3-4, Exhibit A.) Defendant served notice of ruling via e-mail on April
9, 2024. (Brenner Decl. ¶6.) Plaintiff’s thirty-day plus two court day deadline
to file an amended complaint was Monday, May 13, 2024. (CCP §438(h)(2) [30 days
from granting motion for judgment on the pleadings with leave to amend]; § 1010.6(4)(A)
[two court days attached to deadline].) Plaintiff did not file an amended
complaint.
 
Accordingly, the court GRANTS Defendant’s
Motion for Entry of Judgment. The court refers to the proposed judgment
submitted by Defendant.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
3.      Motion
for Leave to Amend is DENIED;
4.      Motion
for Entry of Judgment is GRANTED.
Defendant is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              July 10, 2024              __________________________________                                                                                                                            Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


