 Case Number:  23TRCV00596    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  8 Tentative
Ruling 
¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 October 31, 2023¿ 
¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV00596
¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Joan Rita
Dutton v. Stadco LA, LLC, et al. 
¿ ¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant,
Stadco LA, LLC 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff,
Joan Rita Dutton 
 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not
Set.
 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Compel
Arbitration  
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1)
The Court
will give Plaintiff the option of submitting a further brief or further
evidence given Defendant’s supplemental declaration at the Reply phase of
briefing which provided evidence lacking in the original moving papers.  Without further briefing or evidence from
Plaintiff, the tentative ruling is to ARGUE. 
The Court finds the arbitration provision to be moderately procedurally
unconscionable, but needs oral argument as to substantive
unconscionability.  While the Plaintiff’s
discovery rights would be curtailed in a AAA arbitration, Defendant has already
propounded a first round of discovery to Plaintiff, and there was no
arbitration defense in the Answer.  Also the
Court could order each side to complete a first round of written discovery
before ordering the case into AAA arbitration, thus remedying an element of
claimed substantive unconscionability.  Would
the defense so stipulate as a condition of ordering the case into arbitration
early next year?
                                                 
I. BACKGROUND¿ 
¿ 
A. Factual¿ 
¿¿ 
            On March 1, 2023, Plaintiff, Joan
Rita Dutton (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendant, Stadco LA, LLC,
dba Sofi Stadium, and DOES 1 through 100. The Complaint alleges causes of
action for: (1) Negligence. Plaintiff’s action is based on an alleged
slip-and-fall incident in the parking lot of SoFi stadium in which Plaintiff
allegedly suffered personal injuries. 
 
            Defendant Stadco now files a Motion
to Compel Arbitration. 
 
B. Procedural  
 
On
October 6, 2023, Defendant filed a Motion to Compel Arbitration. On October 18,
2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On October 24, 2023, Defendant filed a
reply brief along with a Supplemental Declaration of Mike Forrester.  
 
II. EVIDENTIARY OBJECTION 
 
Plaintiff’s Evidentiary
Objections to Defendant’s Evidence: 
Sustain: none.
 
Overrule: 1-2
 
III. ANALYSIS ¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Legal Standard 
The Federal Arbitration
Act (“FAA”) states that “[a] written provision in any . . . contract evidencing
a transaction involving commerce to settle by arbitration a controversy
thereafter arising out of such contract or transaction . . . shall be valid,
irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at law or in
equity for the revocation of any contract.” (9 U.S.C. § 2.) California law
incorporates many of the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal
Arbitration Act, including a presumption in favor of arbitrability. (Engalla
v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-72.)
California law states
that “[o]n petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence
of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the
agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists….” (Code Civ. Proc, §
1281.2.) “The party seeking arbitration bears the burden of proving the
existence of an arbitration agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears
the burden of proving any defense, such as unconscionability.” (Pinnacle
Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55
Cal.4th 223, 236.)
Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure §1281.2, generally, on a petition to
compel arbitration, the court must grant the petition unless it finds either
(1) no written agreement to arbitrate exists; (2)¿the right to compel
arbitration has been waived; (3) grounds exist for revocation of the agreement;
or (4) litigation is pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or
create conflicting¿rulings on common issues. 
 
When seeking to compel
arbitration, the initial burden lies with the moving party to demonstrate the
existence of a valid arbitration agreement by preponderance of evidence. 
(Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 841-42; Gamboa
v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021), 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 164-65.)  It
is sufficient for the moving party to produce a copy of the arbitration
agreement or set forth the agreement’s provisions.  (Gamboa, 72
Cal.App.5th at 165.)  The burden then shifts to the opposing party to
prove by a preponderance of evidence any defense to enforcement of the contract
or the arbitration clause.  (Ruiz, 232 Cal.App.4th at 842; Gamboa,
72 Cal.App.5th at 165.)  Subsequently, the moving party must
establish with the preponderance of admissible evidence a valid arbitration
agreement between the parties.  (Ibid.)  The trial court then
weighs all the evidence submitted and uses its discretion to make a final
determination.  (Ibid.)  “California law, ‘like [federal law],
reflects a strong policy favoring arbitration agreements and requires close
judicial scrutiny of waiver claims.’”  (Wagner Const. Co. v. Pacific
Mechanical Corp. (2007) 41 Cal.4th 19, 31.) 
 
If the court orders arbitration,
then the court shall stay the action until arbitration is completed.  (See
Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.) 
 
B.    
Discussion 
 
As a preliminary matter, the Court understands Plaintiff’s position
that Defendant failed to meet its initial burden of production because the
Declaration of Mike Forrester lacks statements which would establish the
Contract as admissible evidence. The Court notes that since the original motion
papers were filed, Defendant has filed a supplemental declaration along with
its Reply brief, which the Court considered in preparing its Tentative
Ruling.  However, since the original
moving papers lacked the supplemental declaration, the Court will give
Plaintiff the option of submitting a supplemental brief or additional evidence
for a continued hearing.   
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff, as a season ticket holder, entered
into a contract with Defendant, relative to her season ticket status, which defines
her as a “Licensee”. The License Agreement has a section for binding
arbitration. Defendant contends that the License Agreement provides the
following language: 
 
“11. CHOICE OF LAW; MANDATORY AND
BINDING ARBITRATION; NO CLASS OR REPRESENTATIVE ACTIONS OR
ARBITRATIONS;LIMITATION ON TIME TO MAKE CLAIMS 
 
“PLEASE READ THIS PROVISION
CAREFULLY. THIS LICENSE AGREEMENT PROVIDES THAT ALL DISPUTES BETWEEN THE
PARTIES WILL BE RESOLVED BY BINDING ARBITRATION. LICENSEE IS THUS GIVING UP
LICENSEE’S RIGHTS TO GO TO COURT TO ASSERT OR DEFEND ITS RIGHTS UNDER THIS LICENSE
AGREEMENT . . . . THE PARTIES’ RIGHTS WILL BE DETERMINED BY A NEUTRAL
ARBITRATOR AND NOT A JUDGE OR JURY. THE PARTIES ARE ENTITLED TO A FAIR HEARING,
BUT THE ARBITRATION PROCEDURES ARE SIMPLER AND MORE LIMITED THAN RULES
APPLICABLE IN COURT. THE ARBITRATOR’S DECISIONS ARE AS ENFORCEABLE AS ANY COURT
ORDER AND ARE SUBJECT TO VERY LIMITED REVIEW BY A COURT. 
 
*
* *
 
“b. Mandatory and Binding
Arbitration. With respect to any and all disputes arising out of or relating to
this License Agreement, no matter on what theory, including without limitation,
. . . tort, . . . , and including regarding the applicability or validity of
this arbitration provision (collectively, “Claims”), the parties agree to
negotiate in good faith to achieve a mutually satisfactory resolution. If the
parties do not resolve any dispute by informal negotiation, any other effort to
resolve the dispute will be conducted exclusively by binding arbitration as
described in this Section 11; . . . LICENSEE ACKNOWLEDGES THAT LICENSEE IS
GIVING UP THE RIGHT TO LITIGATE . . . ALL DISPUTES IN COURT BEFORE A JUDGE OR
JURY, . . . Instead, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, all
Claims will be resolved before a neutral arbitrator, whose decision will be
final . . . . Any court with jurisdiction over the parties may enforce the
arbitrator’s award. 
 
“[A]ll Claims that cannot be settled
through informal negotiation will be adjudicated exclusively through
confidential binding arbitration in accordance with the then current Consumer
Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association (the “AAA”), or, in
the event the AAA declines or is unable to administer the arbitration, by a
nationally recognized arbitration forum reasonably selected by Fanfaire. AAA
rules are available from the AAA, which can be contacted by mail at 725 South
Figueroa, Suite 400, Los Angeles, California 90017, by telephone at (800)
778-7879, or through its website at www.adr.org. The arbitrator’s award shall
be binding and may be entered as a judgment in a court of competent
jurisdiction. Licensee agrees that the Stadium Company . . . may seek any
interim or preliminary relief from a court of competent jurisdiction in Los
Angeles County, California necessary to protect its rights or property pending
the completion of arbitration.” [Emphasis added.] (Exhibit “1”, Sec. 11,
Exhibit C, Page 15.)
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff concedes
that she signed a licensing agreement which contained a mandatory arbitration
clause, but argues that the incident did not arise out of the licensure, ticket
purchase, ticket sales, seating, or anything else related to the Contract. Plaintiff
argues this incident occurred during a soft-launch of the stadium and does not
bring it within the scope of the contract. The Court does not understand
Plaintiff’s argument as it appears that she was invited to a soft-launch event
at the stadium BECAUSE she is a season ticket holder. Moreover, in Defendant’s
reply brief, it confirms that the soft-launch was a season ticket holder event.
As such, it appears that based on the agreement, this event would bind
Plaintiff to mandatory arbitration. Thus, Defendant has met its initial burden
of establishing an agreement to arbitrate. 

 
Unconscionability
 
Plaintiff next argues that the License
Agreement is an adhesion contract and is procedurally unconscionable. “The procedural element of unconscionability focuses on
whether the contract is one of adhesion. (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 113; Mercuro v.
Superior Court, supra, 96 Cal.App.4th at p. 174.) Procedural
unconscionability focuses on whether there is “oppression” arising from an
inequality of bargaining power or “surprise” arising from buried terms in a
complex printed form. (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 114; (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 167,
174 (Mercuro)) The substantive element addresses the
existence of overly harsh or one-sided terms. (Little v. Auto Stiegler, Inc.
(2003) 29 Cal.4th 1064, 1071 [130 Cal.Rptr.2d 892, 63 P.3d 979]; Armendariz,
supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 114.) An agreement to arbitrate is unenforceable
only if both the procedural and substantive elements are satisfied. (Armendariz,
supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 113; Mercuro, supra, 96
Cal.App.4th at p. 174.) However, Armendariz held, “[T]he more
substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of procedural
unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the term is
unenforceable, and vice versa.” (Armendariz, at p. 114; see also Kinney
v. United HealthCare Services, Inc. (1999), 70 Cal.App.4th 1322, 1329.).” McManus
v. CIBC World Markets Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 76, 87.)
 
Procedural Unconscionability 
 
            Plaintiffs
argue that the License Agreement is unenforceable because it is an adhesion
contract and procedurally unconscionable. Plaintiff notes that when she entered
into the contract, she had no bargaining power in negotiating the terms and
conditions on the contract. Plaintiff notes that she was presented with a
single document unilaterally drafted and created by Defendant and its lawyers
and provided to her through DocuSign for her electronic signature, on a take-it
-or-leave-it basis. She asserts she was not provided with the option to enter
into the Contract with the exception of the arbitration provision. 
 
            The Court
notes that a contract
of adhesion typically denotes a standardized contract imposed and drafted by
the party of superior bargaining strength which relegates to the subscribing
party only the opportunity to adhere to the contract or reject it. (Armendariz,
supra, 24 Cal.4th at 113.)¿ The adhesive nature of a contract is one factor
that the courts may consider in determining the degree of procedural
unconscionability.¿ (Carmona v. Lincoln Millennium Car Wash, Inc. (2014)
226 Cal.App.4th 74, 84 fn.4.)¿¿ Further, procedural unconscionability “focuses on two factors:
‘oppression’ and ‘surprise.’ ‘Oppression’ arises from an inequality of
bargaining power which results in no real negotiation and ‘an absence of
meaningful choice.’ ‘Surprise’ involves the extent to which the supposedly
agreed-upon terms of the bargain are hidden in the prolix printed form drafted
by the party seeking to enforce the disputed terms.”¿ (Zullo v. Superior
Court (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 477, 484.)¿¿Here,
Plaintiff does not claim that she was surprised by this arbitration provision,
only that she had no other options. Defendant points out that Plaintiff could have
chosen not to sign the License Agreement, and gone through other methods of
securing tickets, such as purchasing single day tickets, or purchasing on a
resale site. 
 
            Here, because the contract was one
of adhesion, the Court accepts that the Agreement is procedurally
unconscionable to a moderate degree because Defendant was the party of superior
bargaining strength and drafted the Agreement while Plaintiff risked not
becoming a season ticket holder sans signing the Agreements. Thus, the Court
finds the arbitration agreement to be moderately unconscionable in a procedural
sense.  
 
Substantive Unconscionability
 
            Next, Plaintiff argues that the
Contract was substantively unconscionable because she argues that arbitration
provision was buried within the Contract and was not a stand-alone document
offered to Plaintiff to accept or reject. She argues that the arbitration
provisions require AAA as the arbitrator with no alternative and therefore are
substantively unconscionable. An arbitration agreement is generally enforceable, if it (1)
provides for neutral arbitrators, (2) provides for more than minimal discovery,
(3) requires a written award, (4) provides for all of the types of relief that
would otherwise be available in court, and (5) does not require the parties to
pay unreasonable costs and fees as a condition of access to an arbitration
forum. (See Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000)
24 Cal.4th 83, 102.)
 
            Plaintiffs
argue that by requiring Plaintiff to submit any and all disputes solely through
AAA under its Consumer Arbitration Rules, Defendant improperly takes advantage
of Plaintiffs and impairs the integrity of the bargaining process. As noted by
Plaintiff, under the AAA Rules, 
parties have severely limited discovery, and eliminates the opportunity
for any depositions. (See AAA Rules, R-22.) Further, beyond a very ambiguous
description of the exchange of information (i.e.., “specific documents and
other information”), the AAA rules state: “No other exchange of information
beyond what is provided for in section (a) above is contemplated under these
rules, unless an arbitrator determines further information exchange is needed
to provide for a fundamentally fair process.” Lastly, Plaintiff argues that although the arbitration
provision includes a link to www.adr.org, it provides no other guidance
regarding how to search for the rules, or any information regarding how the
rules are applied, how these rules differ from a civil forum, whether there are
other rules, etc.. Based on this, Plaintiff concludes that the provision is
substantively unconscionable. 
 
An agreement is
substantively unconscionable if it imposes terms that are “overly harsh,”
“unduly oppressive,” “unreasonably favorable,” or “so one-sided as to ‘shock
the conscience.’”¿ (Sanchez v. Valencia Holding Co., LLC¿(2015) 61
Cal.4th 899, 910-911¿(Sanchez).)¿ “All of¿these formulations point to
the central idea that unconscionability doctrine is concerned not with ‘a
simple old-fashioned bad bargain’ [citation], but with terms that are
‘unreasonably favorable to the more powerful party.’ [Citation.]”¿ (Id.
at p. 911.)¿ “These include ‘terms that impair the integrity of the bargaining
process or otherwise contravene the public interest or public policy; terms
(usually of an adhesion or boilerplate nature) that attempt to alter in an
impermissible manner fundamental duties otherwise imposed by the law,
fine-print terms, or provisions that seek to negate the reasonable expectations
of the¿nondrafting¿party, or unreasonably and unexpectedly
harsh terms having to do with price or other central aspects of the
transaction.’ ”¿ (Id. at p. 911.)
 
            Plaintiff bases her substantive
unconscionability argument on a number of factors. First, she argues that the
Contract was buried within the Contract and was not a stand-alone document. The
Court notes that the Arbitration provision was on page 15-17 of 18 pages. As
such, simply because the provision was at the end of the contract does not mean
that it was hidden. The Arbitration provision fell at the end of the contract,
was the exact same font and size as the rest of the contract, and required
Plaintiff to provide her separate signature at the end of the provision. The
Court believes this is more of a procedural unconscionability argument than a substantive
one.   
 
            Next, Plaintiff argues that the
provision seeks to significantly eliminate Plaintiff’s litigation rights.
Plaintiff gives the following examples: Paragraph 9 contains an “assumption of
risk” and “indemnification” provision releasing Defendant from all liability
including “personal injury…occurring in or around the stadium (including the
parking lots) and “excepting only…gross negligence.”  She also asserts the Contract cuts Plaintiff’s
statute of limitations in half from two years to one year, in paragraph 11(d)
when noting “licensee permanently and irrevocable waives the right to bring any
claim in any forum unless licensee provides Fanfair with written notice of the
events or facts”. Although the Court concedes that Courts have held that an
arbitration clause can shorten the amount of time an individual has to bring a
claim (or bring notice of a claim such as in this case), those Courts have
conditioned this allowance on still allowing for a reasonable amount of time to
pass. “While parties to an arbitration agreement may agree to shorten the
applicable limitations period for bringing an action, a shortened period must
be reasonable. A contractual period of limitation is reasonable if the
plaintiff has sufficient opportunity to investigate and file an action, the
time is not so short as to work a practical abrogation of the right of action,
and the action is not barred before the loss or damage can be ascertained.” (Baxter
v. Genworth North America Corp. (2017) 16 Cal.App.5th 713, 731.) 
 
            For oral argument, the Court needs
to hear from both sides whether the one-year limitations period will completely
deprive Plaintiff of a remedy or whether the suit would be timely even if the license
agreement provisions were enforced.  Also
for oral argument, the Court invites argument as to whether California law would
apply an assumption of risk defense regardless of the provisions of the license
agreement given that SoFi Stadium hosts sporting events and California law employes
an assumption of risk defense to participation in sporting events.  
 
            Lastly, Plaintiff asserts that
arbitration is required for claims she brings against Defendant, but not the
other way around. In reply, Defendant asserts that the arbitration agreement is
mutual. Plaintiff also notes that it requires her to pay arbitration fees,
fails to specify discovery rights, and allows Defendant, but not Plaintiff to
seek injunctive relief at any time. In its reply brief, Defendant notes
arbitration fees are not unconscionable under Armendariz. The Court
agrees so long as such arbitration fees are comparable to those in court. As to
the discovery issue, the arbitration clause notes it is governed by AAA rules
and identifies how to obtain such rules by providing their website. Finally,
Defendant argues under the arbitration provision, either party may seek
preliminary injunctive relief. 
 
Defendant Did
Not Waive Right to Arbitration 
 
            Plaintiff
argues the Defendant waived its right to compel arbitration by engaging in
conduct inconsistent with an intent to arbitrate. “‘In
determining waiver, a court can consider “(1) whether the party’s actions are
inconsistent with the right to arbitrate; (2) whether the ‘litigation machinery
has been substantially invoked’ and the parties ‘were well into preparation of
a lawsuit’ before the party notified the opposing party of an intent to
arbitrate; (3) whether a party either requested arbitration enforcement close
to the trial date or delayed for a long period before seeking a stay; (4)
whether a defendant seeking arbitration filed a counterclaim without asking for
a stay of the proceedings; (5) ‘whether important intervening steps [e.g.,
taking advantage of judicial discovery procedures not available in arbitration]
had taken place’; and (6) whether the delay ‘affected, misled, or prejudiced’
the opposing party.” ’  [Citation.]”  (St. Agnes Med. Ctr. v.
PacifiCare of Cal. (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1187, 1196 (St. Agnes).) 
Recently, the United States Supreme Court resolved a circuit split and “held
that under the FAA, courts may not ‘condition a waiver of the right to
arbitrate on a showing of prejudice.’”  (Davis v. Shiekh Shoes, LLC
(2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 956, 965 (Davis), quoting Morgan v. Sundance,
Inc. (2022) 142 S.Ct. 1708, 1713 (Morgan).)  Accordingly, the St.
Agnes factors “‘minus the prejudice requirement’ are unaffected by Morgan
and remain proper considerations in the waiver inquiry.”  (Davis,
supra, 84 Cal.App.5th at p. 966.) 
 
            Here,
Plaintiff notes Defendant filed an answer and propounded written discovery on
Plaintiff, including Form Interrogatories, and Request for Production of
Documents. Plaintiff also asserts Defendant waited to file its petition to
compel arbitration while commencing written discovery, thereby demonstrating
intent to waive any right to arbitration. Here, the Court notes that
Defendant’s answer does not even include an affirmative defense for binding
arbitration. Further, engaging in discovery indicates that Defendant did not
intend to bring this case to arbitration. The Court will allow oral argument as
to the prejudice faced by Plaintiff before deciding whether Defendant waived
its right to arbitrate. 
 
 
 