 Case Number:  22TRCV01449    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  8 Tentative
Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 October 31, 2023¿¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   22TRCV01449
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Sandra Butler v. Hollywood Park Management
Company, LLC, et al.       .¿¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant, Apex Security Group, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff, Sandra Butler
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                       None
Set.   
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Strike 
¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) Motion to Strike is GRANTED. 
 
¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿ 
On December 8, 2022, Plaintiff, Sandra
Butler (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants, Hollywood Park
Management, LLC, Hollywood Park Management Company II, LLC, Stadco LA, LLC,
Stadco LA Manager, LLC, Pincay Re, LLC, Pincay Re Member LLC, APEX Security
Group, Inc., and DOES 1 through 50. On May 10, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging causes of action for: (1) Negligence; and
(2) Premises Liability. 
 
Now, Defendant, Apex Security Group, Inc. (“Apex”)files
a Motion to Strike portions of Plaintiff’s FAC. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
 
On September 11, 2023, Apex filed
a Motion to Strike. On October 18, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On
October 24, 2023, Apex filed a reply brief. 
 
II. GROUNDS FOR MOTION
 
Apex seeks to strike the
following portions of Plaintiff’s FAC: 
 
1.    
“44. Defendants’ aforementioned conduct
constitutes a willful and deliberate disregard for the safety of Plaintiff and
all other invitees and guests on the SUBJECT PREMISES. Defendants knowingly and
willfully subjected Plaintiff and others to a risk of serious harm despite
their knowledge not only that the dangerous condition existed, but that others
had already been injured as a result of the dangerous condition, including at
least one person taken away in an ambulance.” (FAC ¶44; 7:14-18.) 
2.    
“45. Defendants willfully and deliberately
failed to avoid other members of the public, including Plaintiff, from
suffering the dangerous consequences posed by their failure to take corrective
measures. Defendants’ conduct was such so as to be offensive and unconscionable
to a reasonable person of the community.” (FAC ¶45; 7:19-22.) 
3.     “For
punitive damages, according to proof;” (FAC Prayer ¶2; 8:5.) This motion is
brought following meet and confer efforts between counsel pursuant to
California Code of Civil Procedure Section 435.5. (See, Declaration of Katie J.
Brinson, filed concurrently herewith, ¶¶1-16.)
            
 
¿III. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A. Motion to Strike 
¿ Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).) The court may, upon a motion, or at any
time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,
subd. (a); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a
pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are
surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].) The court may also strike
all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with
California law, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., §
436, subd. (b).) An immaterial or irrelevant allegation is one that is not
essential to the statement of a claim or defense; is neither pertinent to nor
supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense; or a demand for judgment
requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 431.10, subd. (b).) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on
the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., §
437.)¿¿ 
 
B.
Discussion 
 
Here, Apex argues that the Court should strike
the request for punitive damages found in the FAC. Civil Code section 3294,
subdivision (a) authorizes punitive damages in non-contract cases “where the
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.” “Malice [is defined
as] conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff
or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard for the rights and safety of others.” (Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (c)(1).) “Oppression” means “despicable conduct that subjects a person to
cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.”
(Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2).) “Fraud” is “an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code,
§ 3294, subd. (c)(3).) The Plaintiff has alleged sufficient facts which, if
proven could entitle Plaintiff to establish the malice prong of Civil Code
section 3294. 
 
Apex contends that instead of alleging acts
that constitute oppression, fraud, or malice, Plaintiff merely recites the
language of Civil Code section 3294 in a conclusory fashion. Apex also contends
that Plaintiff has failed to satisfy the requirements of Civil Code § 3294
because they do not allege corporate control over the alleged “despicable
conduct.” Instead, Apex argues that the FAC does not plead any facts then
address this requirement, nor do they distinguish Apex from other defendants
generally. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff relies on its
allegation that a security guard told Plaintiff that “someone is always
falling” off the same dip, including at least one other person who had to be
taken away in an ambulance after falling over the dip a couple weeks prior.
(FAC, ¶ 41.) Based on this, Plaintiff contends that Defendants, including Apex
Security, knew of or had notice of the dangerous condition on the subject
premises posed by the significant yet unmarked dip in the surface walked on by
invitees and guests of the vicinity of the subject incident. (FAC, ¶ 42.)
However, Plaintiff states in its opposition that it alleges that an Apex
Security guard was the security guard in the paragraph 41 allegation, but the
paragraph makes no such distinction. 
 
In the Court’s view, Plaintiff must plead its
allegations with more specificity. Particularly, which security guard made the
statement? Further, many security companies are contracted out by companies who
own the premises. Was Apex in charge of ensuring the premises was safe? Was
Apex in charge of remedying or warning of dangers on the walking paths? Was the
statement by the security guard authorized or ratified by management?  Allegations addressing answers to these
questions would get Plaintiff closer to providing more sufficient facts on its
claim for punitive damages. However, as of now, the Court holds that
Plaintiff’s FAC fails to state facts sufficient to plead punitive damages. 
 
As such, the Motion to Strike is GRANTED, with
twenty (20) days leave to amend. 
 
IV.
CONCLUSION¿¿  
¿¿¿ 
For the foregoing reasons, Defendant’s Motion to Strike is
GRANTED. Plaintiff will be allowed twenty (20) days leave to amend. 
¿¿¿ 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.
 
 
 
 