 Case Number:  23TRCV02570    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  8 Tentative
Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 October 31, 2023¿¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23TRCV02570
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Kevin
Symons v. General Motors, LLC, et al.  
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant, General Motors, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff, Kevin Symons 
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                       Not
Set   
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Demurrer¿ 
(2) Motion to Strike 
¿                                                                                
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) Defendant’s Demurrer to the fraud,
misrep and 17200 causes of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend
(2) Defendant’s Motion to Strike is MOOTED
 
¿ 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿ 
On August 9,
2023, Plaintiff, Kevin Symons (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendant
General Motors (“GM”) and DOES 1 through 20. The Complaint alleges causes of
action for: (1) Fraud Concealment and Misrepresentation; (2) Negligent
Misrepresentation; (3) Business and Professions Code § 17200; (4) Song-Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act – Breach of Express Warranty; (5) Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act – Breach of Implied Warranty; (6) Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty
Act – Civil Code § 1793.2(b). 
 
Defendant GM
has now filed a Demurrer and Motion to Strike portions of the Complaint. 
            
B. Procedural¿¿ 
 
On September 11, 2023, Defendant,
GM filed a Demurrer and Motion to Strike. On October 18, 2023, Plaintiff filed
opposition papers. On October 24, 2023, Defendant, GM filed a reply brief. 
 
¿II. MOVING PARTY’S GROUNDS
¿ 
GM demurs to Plaintiff’s
complaint on the grounds that it argues the First, Second, and Third causes of
action fails to state sufficient facts. 
 
III. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A. Demurrer 
¿ 
A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that
appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the
pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts
sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might
eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v.
William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City
Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab
Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A pleading is uncertain if it is ambiguous or
unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer for
uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders the
complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to
respond to.¿ (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed,
even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can
be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of
California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)¿¿ 
 
Fraud
Concealment and Misrepresentation 
Here, the cause of action for Fraudulent
Concealment and Misrepresentation is uncertain to the Court as the two can be
separate causes of action. “The elements of fraud,” including a cause of action
for fraudulent inducement, “are (a) a misrepresentation (false representation,
concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c)
intent to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.”
(Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Ctr.
(2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) The facts constituting the alleged fraud must
be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the
policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be
invoked. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)
12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) To properly allege fraud against a corporation, the
plaintiffs must plead the names of the persons allegedly making the false
representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said
or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann
v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
Concealment
The elements of a cause of action for
fraudulent concealment are: (1) concealment of a material fact; (2) by a
defendant with a duty to disclose; (3) the defendant intended to defraud by
failing to disclose; (4) plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not have
acted as it did had it known the fact; and (5) damages.” (Butler America,
LLC v. Aviation Assurance Company, LLC (2020) 55 Cal.App.5th 136, 144.) The
facts constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically
as to every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the
pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar v. Superior Court
(1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) To properly allege fraud against a corporation,
the plaintiffs must plead the names of the persons allegedly making the false
representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said
or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto.
Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.) Of course, a concealment cause of action
has a more relaxed specificity requirement as compared to affirmative
misrepresentations because a concealment claim does not assert that GM actively
or affirmatively defrauded the public in general of Plaintiff in particular.
The rule of specifically pleading how, when,
where, to whom and by what means, misrepresentations were communicated is
intended to apply to affirmative misrepresentations and not to concealment. (Alfaro
v. Community Housing Improvement System & Planning Assn, Inc. (2009)
171 Cal.App.4th 1356 at 1384.) 
Under the fraudulent concealment issue, GM
asserts that that Plaintiff has not identified any material facts regarding the
Subject Vehicle that GM concealed. Here, the Complaint alleges that First, GM
intentionally and knowingly concealed, suppressed and/or omitted material facts
including the presence of the defective high voltage battery pack in the
vehicle. (Complaint, ¶ 29). Plaintiff also alleges GM had a duty to disclose (Complaint,
¶ 31.) Further, Plaintiff contends that GM intentionally concealed the material
facts including the standard, quality or grade of the Vehicles and the presence
of the battery defect, to sell additional vehicles and avoid the cost of repair
or replacement. (Complaint, ¶ 31.) Plaintiff further asserts it would not have
purchased the vehicle but for GM’s omissions and concealment of material facts
regarding the nature and quality of the vehicle and existence of the battery
defect. (Complaint, ¶ 32.)
Here, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s
Complaint does not meet the requisite level of specificity because it fails to
allege how GM obtained its knowledge of the defect and how such knowledge of a
defect was not equally available to Plaintiff. Plaintiff’s complaint makes no
mention of Technical Service Bulletins. Moreover, the only reference to the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) in the Complaint
contends that GM informed the NHTSA that the purpose of the recall was to
install an interim software fix that called for reprogramming the hybrid
propulsion system control module to limit the battery’s range to approximately
214 miles on a single batter charge, but that at the very least, the
programming change dropped the vehicle’s total range 10%. The Court can take
judicial notice of the fact that TSBs are available on the NHTSA website for
consumer consumption and would have been available to Plaintiff. 
Under California law, a duty to disclose
material facts may arise (1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship
with the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant has exclusive knowledge of material
facts not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively conceals a
material fact from the plaintiff; or (4) when the defendant makes partial
representations but also suppresses some material facts. (Falk v. General
Motors Corp. (N.D. Cal. 2007) 496 F.Supp.2d 1088, 1098-1099 citing LiMandri
v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326.) 

Here, although Plaintiff’s complaint alleges
that the knowledge obtained by GM was exclusive or superior, it does not
provide any allegations to which it basses this belief on. (i.e., customer
complaints, internal testing, etc..) Moreover, although not argued in the
demurrer, the Complaint fails to allege a sufficient transactional
relationship. As LiMandri made clear, the second, third, and fourth
circumstances giving rise to a duty to disclose “presupposes the existence of
some ... relationship between the plaintiff and defendant.” 52 Cal. App.
4th at 336-37 (emphasis added). For purposes of duties to disclose, the
California Supreme Court has defined a “relationship” as a “transaction”
between the parties. (Warner Constr. Corp. v. City of Los Angeles (1970)
2 Cal. 3d 285, 294; see LiMandri, 52 Cal. App. 4th at 337 (“As a matter
of common sense, such a relationship can only come into being as a result of
some sort of transaction between the parties.”) (emphasis in original).)  This Court notes that a transactional
relationship test can be met indirectly, i.e., by virtue of an allegation that
Plaintiff purchased the subject vehicle from an authorized GM dealer.  There is some support in published decisions
for this argument. Namely, the Court directs the parties to the case of Dhital
v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828. The Court notes
that the California Supreme Court granted review of Dhital, and thus,
although not binding, its decision may be cited for its persuasive authority.
The decision in Dhital found the allegations sufficient to overcome
Nissan’s demurrer there.   
Dhital states: “Plaintiffs alleged that they
bought the car from a Nissan dealership, that Nissan backed the car
with an express warranty, and that Nissan’s authorized dealerships are
its agents for purposes of the sale of Nissan vehicles to consumers.” (Dhital,
supra, 84 Cal.App.5th at 844 [emphasis added].) Here, the Complaint
alleges no such thing. Plaintiff’s Complaint does not identify that Martin
Chevrolet is an authorized dealership of GM. As such, Plaintiff’s Complaint
fails as to the fraudulent concealment cause of action and the demurrer is
SUSTAINED with twenty (20) days leave to amend. 
 
Misrepresentation
Fraudulent misrepresentation can be
intentional or negligent. As noted above, The rule of
specifically pleading how, when, where, to whom and by what means,
misrepresentations were communicated is intended to apply to affirmative
misrepresentations. (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement System &
Planning Assn, Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356 at 1384.) Here, Plaintiff
fails to allege fraudulent misrepresentation with such specificity. As such,
the Demurrer is SUSTAINED. 
Negligent
Misrepresentation 
The elements of a cause of action for negligent
misrepresentation include “[m]isrepresentation of a past or existing material
fact, without reasonable ground for believing it to be true, and with intent to
induce another’s reliance on the fact misrepresented; ignorance of the truth
and justifiable reliance on the misrepresentation by the party to whom it was
directed; and resulting damage.” (Hydro-Mill
Co., Inc. v. Hayward, Tilton & Rolapp Ins. Associates, Inc. (2004) 115
Cal.App.4th 1145, 1154, quotation marks omitted.) The facts constituting the
alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of
fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not
ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar v. Superior
Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) To properly allege fraud against a
corporation, the plaintiff must plead the names of the persons allegedly making
the false representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what
they said or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153,
157.) California courts have recognized a cause of action for negligent
misrepresentation, i.e., a duty to communicate accurate information, in two
circumstances. The first situation arises where providing false information
poses a risk of and results in physical harm to person or property. The second
situation arises where information is conveyed in a commercial setting for a
business purpose.” (Friedman v. Merck
& Co. (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 454, 477.)
Here, as noted above, the Complaint fails to allege the
specificities required as misrepresentation. As such, the demurrer to this
cause of action is also SUSTAINED with twenty (20) days leave to amend. 
Business
and Professions Code § 17200
            Lastly, GM argues that Plaintiff has
failed to allege specific facts sufficient to establish the cause of action for
Business and Professions Code § 17200. To set forth a claim for a violation of Business and
Professions Code section 17200 (“UCL”), Plaintiff must establish Defendant was
engaged in an “unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice and
unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising” and certain specific acts.
(Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200.) A cause of action for unfair competition “is
not an all-purpose substitute for a tort or contract action.” (Cortez v. Purolator Air Filtration Products
Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 163, 173.) Here,
the Court contends that Plaintiff has not ufficiently alleged the unlawful
behavior for which it bases its action; does not contend how GM’s actions were
unfair besides alleging conclusory allegations; and as noted, Plaintiff’s
Complaint is devoid of the specificity required to plead fraud. As such, the
cause of action is SUSTAINED with twenty (20) days leave to amend. 
A.    Motion to Strike 
 
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole
or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).) The court may,
upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems
proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Stafford v. Shultz (1954)
42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim
is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or
disregarded”].) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with California law, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) An immaterial or irrelevant
allegation is one that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense;
is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or
defense; or a demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations
of the complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subd. (b).) The grounds for
moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial
notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)¿¿ 
 
Here,
GM bases its Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s prayer for Punitive Damages on the
argument that Plaintiff has not plead the fraud cause of action with the
specificity required. Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages, and Defendant’s
argument against it, are intrinsically intertwined with the fraudulent
inducement – concealment cause of action, and as such, the Court’s ruling as to
the Motion to Strike is determined by the Court’s ruling of the demurrer. The
Motion to Strike is thus mooted.  
 
IV.
CONCLUSION¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
For the foregoing reasons, Defendant’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED.
Additionally, Defendant’s Motion to Strike is MOOTED. 
¿¿¿ 
GM is ordered to give notice.
 
 
 
 
 