  Case Number:  24CHCV00848    Hearing Date:   July 1, 2024    Dept:  F51  JUNE 28, 2024    DEMURRER  Los Angeles Superior Court Case  # 24CHCV00848    Demurrer Filed: 4/17/24   MOVING PARTY: Defendant Proshat Shahrestany  (“Defendant”) RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff  Julian Lawrence Colberg, in pro per (“Plaintiff”)  NOTICE: OK    RELIEF REQUESTED: Defendant  demurs against Plaintiff’s entire complaint.   TENTATIVE RULING: The unopposed demurrer is sustained without leave to  amend.     BACKGROUND    On 3/14/24,  Plaintiff filed his complaint against Defendant, alleging the following causes  of action: (1) Trespass; (2) Fraud; (3) Negligence; (4) Intentional Infliction  of Emotional Distress; (5) Deprivation of Right; (6) Subversion; (7)  Mischief/Intentional Indifference & Malice; (8) False Imprisonment; (9)  Unjust Enrichment; and (10) Racketeering.   On 4/17/24,  Defendant filed the instant demurrer. On 4/25/24, Plaintiff filed a “Notice on Denial  of Defendant’s Demurrer.” On 5/9/24, Plaintiff filed a “Notice on Overruling of  Defendant’s Demurrer.”[1] On  6/24/24, Defendant filed her reply.   ANALYSIS   As a general matter, a party may respond to a pleading  against it by demurrer on the basis of any single or combination of eight  enumerated grounds, including that “the pleading does not state facts  sufficient to constitute a cause of action” and is uncertain, meaning  “ambiguous and unintelligible.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e) and  (f).) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the  pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.  (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿   “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence  or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs.  (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the  complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The  only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,  states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th  740, 747.)    Here, Defendant  demurs to Plaintiff’s entire complaint, arguing that Plaintiff fails to allege  facts sufficient to constitute any of the causes of action contained therein, therefore  rendering the complaint fatally uncertain.   A.    Meet  and Confer   Counsel for Defendant declares that on 4/3/24, she and  Plaintiff met and conferred telephonically regarding the issues raised in the  instant demurrer, but the parties were unable to resolve the dispute. (Decl. of  Joelle Foxwell, ¶¶ 6–10.) Therefore, the Court finds that counsel has satisfied  the preliminary meet and confer requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section  430.41, subdivision (a).   B.     Factual  Sufficiency   Plaintiff  alleges against Defendant the following causes of action: (1) Trespass; (2)  Fraud; (3) Negligence; (4) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; (5)  Deprivation of Right; (6) Subversion; (7) Mischief/Intentional Indifference  & Malice; (8) False Imprisonment; (9) Unjust Enrichment; and (10)  Racketeering.   Here,  Defendant argues that “Plaintiff’s complaint contains no factual allegations  making it unclear, ambiguous and unintelligible.” (Dem. 7:27–28.) “Plaintiff’s  complaint in this case is devoid of any factual allegations. Plaintiff has not  alleged any facts establishing the identity of the parties, contact between the  parties, jurisdiction, venue, or the events and circumstances giving rise to  the complaint. It is impossible to determine who the parties are, what events  transpired, where the events occurred, or when these undefined events occurred  within the four corners of the complaint. Defendant cannot reasonably ascertain  what claims, grounds, or basis Plaintiff has for any of his claims or even if  this Court has jurisdiction over the parties or issues.” (Id. at 4:20–26.)   Upon review  of Plaintiff’s one-page complaint, the Court agrees with Defendant that  Plaintiff has failed to state any substantive factual allegations. Based on the  foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has not alleged facts sufficient to  constitute any causes of action against Defendant. Accordingly, the demurrer is  sustained against the entire complaint on this basis.   C.    Uncertainty   Defendant  argues that the complaint is uncertain pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure  section 430.10, subdivision (f). As the complaint is devoid of any factual  allegations against Defendant, the Court agrees with Defendant, and finds that  the complaint is fatally uncertain. Accordingly, the demurrer is sustained  against the entire complaint on this basis.   D.    Leave  to Amend   Where a  demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a  reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy  (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court  that a pleading can be amended successfully. Plaintiff has failed to meet his  burden.       CONCLUSION    The unopposed demurrer  is sustained without leave to amend.       