 Case Number:  24STCV12715    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     December
6, 2024                                          TRIAL DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Jose Licea v. Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc.
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV12715
 





















 
SPECIALLY
APPEARING DEFENDANT HILTON WORLDWIDE HOLDINGS INC.’S MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF
SUMMONS FOR LACK OF PERSONAL JURISDICTION 
 
STATUS
CONFERENCE RE: JURISDICTIONAL DISCOVERY



 
 
            Plaintiff Jose
Licea (Plaintiff or Licea) brings this action against Defendant Hilton
Worldwide Holdings Inc. (Defendant or Hilton) for violation of the California
Invasion of Privacy Act (CIPA).  Licea
alleges that Hilton operates the website “www.grandwailea.com” which provides
information about the Grand Wailea, a resort located in Hawaii.  Unbeknownst to website visitors, Hilton deploys
spyware on the website which accesses visitors’ devices and installs tracking
spyware without obtaining consent.  The
tracking spyware allows Hilton to monitor visitors’ online habits after leaving
the website.  Licea further alleges that
Hilton accessed Licea’s device after Licea visited the website.
 
            On July 26,
2024, Hilton filed a motion to quash service of summons on the grounds that it
does not own or operate hotels in California, is not registered to do business
in California, and does not operate the website.  
 
            The motion
was heard on August 26, 2024.  After
taking the matter under submission, the court issued a ruling finding Plaintiff
had not established general or specific personal jurisdiction but granting Plaintiff’s
request to conduct jurisdictional discovery. 
The court directed Plaintiff to submit a discovery plan and concurrently
continued Hilton’s motion to quash.  The
court set a status conference for October 4, 2024, to resolve any dispute, if
any, regarding Plaintiff’s proposed discovery plan.
 
            On
September 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed his discovery plan.  Hilton filed timely its objection to the
plan.  Plaintiff responded.  
 
On August 26, 2024, the court approved Plaintiff’s proposed
discovery plan.  The Status Conference
re: Jurisdictional Discovery and Defendant Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc.’s
Motion to Quash Service of Summons were continued to December 6,
2024.  
 
The parties have not filed any supplemental briefing nor
updated the court of the status of jurisdictional discovery.  Accordingly, the Status Conference re:
Jurisdictional Discovery is CONTINUED to February 6, 2025, at 9:00 a.m.  The hearing for Defendant Hilton Worldwide
Holdings Inc.’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons is CONTINUED to March 6,
2025, at 8:30 a.m.  The Case Management
Conference is CONTINUED to March 6, 2025, at 9:00 a.m.
 
Plaintiff is directed to file a report regarding the status
of jurisdictional discovery no later than 10 court days before the status
conference.  The parties are file
supplemental briefing pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1005 based on
the March 6, 2025, hearing date.
 
 
Clerk of the court to give notice. 
 
 
Dated:   December 6,
2024                                      




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




            