..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 24NNCV02759
Plaintiff: Sandra Vigil
Defendant: SFT Investment Corp. and Arman Sarkissian
People: Sandra Vigil, Arman Sarkissian
Companies: SFT Investment Corp.
Places: Los Angeles, California
Dates: November 15, 2006, January 20, 2023, February 2, 2023, February 3, 2023, July 8, 2024, September 3, 2024, September 30, 2024, October 4, 2024, October 11, 2024
Events: Allegations of retaliation, wrongful termination, failure to provide meal and rest breaks, failure to pay wages due upon termination, failure to indemnify, and failure to issue accurate and itemized wage statements
Money: Unpaid wages, overtime, meal and rest break premiums
Intentions: To address alleged labor code violations and retaliation
Facts: Plaintiff was a former employee of SFT Investment Corp., alleging she was retaliated against for using sick leave and complaining about unpaid wages. She also alleges failure to provide meal and rest breaks, failure to pay wages due upon termination, failure to indemnify, and failure to issue accurate and itemized wage statements.
Disputes: Demurrer filed by Defendants to the complaint
Acts: Allegations of unfair labor practices and violations of labor code
Agreements: Labor Code, Industrial Welfare Commission wages orders, Business and Professions Code
Laws: Labor Code, Industrial Welfare Commission wages orders, Business and Professions Code
Statutes: Labor Code, Industrial Welfare Commission wages orders, Business and Professions Code
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant
Significant Statements:
- "An employer shall not deny an employee the right to use accrued sick days, discharge, threaten to discharge, demote, suspend, or in any manner discriminate against an employee for using accrued sick days, attempting to exercise the right to use accrued sick days, filing a complaint with the department or alleging a violation of this article, cooperating in an investigation or prosecution of an alleged violation of this article, or opposing any policy or practice or act that is prohibited by this article." - Labor Code, §246.5(c)(1)
- "An employer shall not require an employee to work during a meal or rest or recovery period mandated pursuant to an applicable statute, or applicable regulation, standard, or order of the Industrial Welfare Commission, the Occupational Safety and Health Standards Board, or the Division of Occupational Safety and Health." - Labor Code, §226.7(b)
- "An employer shall indemnify his or her employee for all necessary expenditures or losses incurred by the employee in direct consequence of the discharge of his or her duties, or of his or her obedience to the directions of the employer, even though unlawful, unless the employee, at the time of obeying the directions, believed them to be unlawful." - Labor Code, §2802(a)
```

And here is a summary in English text:

The tentative ruling is a response to a demurrer filed by defendants SFT Investment Corp. and Arman Sarkissian to a complaint filed by plaintiff Sandra Vigil. The complaint alleges various labor code violations, including retaliation for using sick leave and complaining about unpaid wages, failure to provide meal and rest breaks, failure to pay wages due upon termination, failure to indemnify, and failure to issue accurate and itemized wage statements.

The court has sustained the demurrer as to the 2nd, 3rd, and 7th causes of action, but has overruled the demurrer as to the 1st, 4th, 5th, 6th, 9th, and 10th causes of action. The court has given defendants 20 days leave to amend the causes of action that were sustained. The court has also ordered that defendants provide notice of this order.

The ruling is significant because it allows the plaintiff's claims to move forward and addresses alleged labor code violations and retaliation. The court has relied on various labor code provisions, including Labor Code, §246.5(c)(1), Labor Code, §226.7(b), and Labor Code, §2802(a), in making its ruling.
