 Case Number:  23BBCV02480    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
jesus
  rivas guillen, et al.,
  
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
juliana
  rodriguez, et al., 
                        Defendants.


 
Case
  No.:  23BBCV01727
 
  Hearing Date:  October 11, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion to compel further responses 
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiffs Leticia Rivas and Jesus Rivas
Guillen allege that they are separated but not divorced and do not speak or
write English well.  They allege that the
property at issue is located at 11746 Stagg Street, North Hollywood, CA 91605.  Plaintiffs allege that the subject property
was purchased in 2012 and that their two daughters, Defendant Juliana Rodriguez
and Nancy Barahona (deceased) assisted Plaintiffs with the purchase of the
property, such that Plaintiffs would give their daughters the money for the
down payment, the daughters would obtain a loan, and the property would be put
in the names of the daughters; however, Plaintiffs would be the equitable
owners of and live on the property.  Plaintiffs
allege that they gave Juliana Rodriguez and Nancy Barahona $243,662 on January
6, 2012 to obtain the loan, and that Juliana Rodriguez and Nancy Barahona took
title to the subject property as joint tenants, as married women, as their sole
and separate property by Grant Deed. 
Plaintiffs allege that Nancy Barahona died on August 24, 2021, such that
Juliana Rodriguez is the only living record title holder—though they dispute
that she holds any equitable title.  Plaintiffs
allege that Leticia Rivas has lived at the property since 2012 and that Jesus
Rivas Guillen has lived at the property until 2 years ago when he moved to
Texas; however, Plaintiffs both sent money to Juliana Rodriguez and Nancy
Barahona to make all mortgage payments, taxes, and insurance for Plaintiffs
since the property was obtained.  Plaintiffs
allege that Juliana Rodriguez, her husband Dimas Rodriguez, and their 3
children moved into the property in April 2020 and pay rent in the amount of
$700/month.  
Plaintiffs seek to quiet title to the
subject property, finding them the equitable and actual owners of the property
and that Juliana and Dimas Rodriguez have no right, title, or interest in the
subject property.  
The complaint, filed October 24, 2023,
alleges causes of action for: (1) quiet title; (2) declaratory relief; (3)
breach of fiduciary duty; (4) fraud; and (5) IIED.    
B.    
Cross-Complaint
On July 18, 2024, Defendants/Cross-Complainants
Juliana Rodriguez and Dimas Rodriguez filed a first amended cross-complaint
(“FAXC”) against Cross-Defendants Jesus Rivas Guillen, Leticia Rivas, and all
persons known and unknown claiming an interest to title for: (1) breach of oral
contract; (2) intentional misrepresentation (fraud); (3) conversion; (4) breach
of covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (5) intentional prospective
economic advantage; (6) slander of title; (7) defamation per se; (8) IIED; (9)
accounting; (10) quiet title; and (11) declaratory relief. 
C.    
Motion
on Calendar 
On August 6, 2024, Plaintiff Leticia Rivas
filed a motion to compel Defendant Juliana Rodriguez’s further responses to
Requests for Production, set one (“RPD”). 

On October 1, 2024, Juliana Rodriguez
filed an opposition brief. 
On October 3, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a
reply brief. 
DISCUSSION 
            Plaintiff
Leticia Rodriguez (hereinafter “Plaintiff”) moves to compel Defendant Juliana
Rodriguez’s (hereinafter “Defendant”) further responses to RPD Nos. 1-31. 
            In
the opposition, Defendant argues that the motion should be denied because
Defendant believed that her attorney’s office had sent the RPD responses via
email, but discovered later that the email was not sent and could not be
located.  Defendant argues that the
failure to send response was through inadvertence and mistake.  Defendant states that simultaneously with the
opposition brief, defense counsel has provided the documents to Plaintiff’s
counsel via creation of a new digital link and email for easy access to the
documents.  (Tehrani Decl., ¶¶3-4.)  Exhibit A to the opposition brief includes an
email attaching a link to the amended and supplemental response to the
RPD.  (Id., ¶5, Ex. A.)  
            In
reply, Plaintiff argues that the supplemental/amended responses state in large
part that Defendant will be producing documents.  (Reply at Ex. 5.)  
According to Defendant’s
amended responses (served September 30, 2024), Defendant states that she will
provide responsive documents as to RPD Nos. 1-3, 5, 7, and 9-31.  In light of her representations that further
documents are forthcoming but have not yet been produced, the Court grants the
motion as to RPD Nos. RPD Nos. 1-3, 5, 7, and 9-31. 
RPD No. 4 seeks
communications between Defendant and Jesus Rivas Guillen regarding the subject
property.  Defendant responded that she
could not comply with the request because no such document existed despite a
diligent search and reasonable inquiry.  This
is compliant with CCP § 2031.230.  As
such, the motion is denied as to RPD No. 4.
RPD No. 6 seeks
communications between Defendant and Dimas Rodriguez regarding the subject
property from 2019 to October 24, 2023.  RPD
No. 8 seeks communications between Defendant and Victor Manuel Castillo
related to the purchase of the subject property in or around 2012.  Defendant objected to these RPDs based on the
marital communication privilege.  Evidence
Code, § 980 states: “Subject to Section 912 and except as otherwise provided in
this article, a spouse …, whether or not a party, has a privilege during the
marital or domestic
partnership relationship and afterwards to refuse to disclose, and to
prevent another from disclosing, a communication if he or she claims the privilege and the
communication was made in confidence between him or her and the other spouse while they
were spouses.”  The Court notes that this was the same
objection raised by Defendant in her initial responses to RPD Nos. 6 and 8.  To the extent that Defendant is relying on
privilege, she should substantiate her claim of privilege and produce a
privilege log pursuant to CCP § 2031.240(c). 
The motion is granted as to RPD Nos. 6 and 8 so that Defendant may
produce a privilege log of the documents claimed to be covered by the
privilege.   
            Plaintiff
seeks $4,868.90 in sanctions against Defendant and defense counsel (= [11.5
hours drafting the motion + 3.5 anticipated hours to consider the opposition
and draft a reply brief + 1 anticipated hour to appear for the hearing, at
$300/hour] + $68.90 in filing fees). 
(Digiuseppe Decl., ¶11.)  The
Court will award sanctions in favor of Plaintiff but will reduce the sanctions
to a more reasonable sum of $2,068.90 and will impose the sanctions against
defense counsel only.  The failure to
provide Defendant’s RPD responses to Plaintiff does not appear to have been as
a result of any failure on the part of the client, but on defense counsel’s
purported inadvertence and mistake.  On
July 11, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel sent a meet and confer letter regarding
Defendant’s responses and pointed out that no responses were received with
respect to the RPDs.  (Mot. at Ex.
3.)  Despite notifying defense counsel
regarding the lack of responses, RPD responses were not provided, and Plaintiff
filed this motion on August 6, 2024.  It
appears that defense counsel was prompted to provide the discovery responses as
a result of the filing of this motion.  Further, even though amended responses were
provided, Defendant has still not produced documents.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
            Plaintiff Leticia Rivas’ motion to
compel Defendant Juliana Rodriguez’s further responses to Requests for
Production, set one is granted as to RPD Nos. 1-3 and 5-31.   The
motion is denied as to RPD No. 4.  Defendant
is ordered to provide further responses within 20 days of notice of this order.

            Defendant’s counsel
of record is ordered to pay monetary sanctions in the amount of $2,068.90 to
Plaintiff, by and through counsel, within 20 days of notice of this order.
Plaintiff shall provide
notice of this order. 
 
 
DATED:  October 11, 2024                                                    ___________________________
                                                                                          John
J. Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court  