 Case Number:  24BBCV00459    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
johnny
  o’connor by and through his conservator alexandra o’connor,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
john
  t. toal, et al.,
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  24BBCV00459
 
  Hearing Date:  October 11, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
demurrer; motion to strike
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations

Plaintiff Johnny O’Connor by and through
his conservator Alexandra O’Connor (“Plaintiff”) alleges that Defendants John
T. Toal (“Toal”), John T. Toal as Trustee of the John T. Toal Trust, and the
John T. Toal Trust (“Toal Trust”) own the real property at 629 N. Reese Place
in Burbank.  Plaintiff alleges that he
met Toal through “the homosexual hook-up app “Grindr’” and that Toal engaged in
a pattern of coercive, manipulative, and abusive behavior with regard to
Plaintiff.  (FAC at 1st cause
of action.)  Plaintiff alleges that Toal
knew that Plaintiff struggled with drug use and addiction, and he manipulated
and coerced Plaintiff to engage in sexual activity with Toal at Toal’s property
in exchange for illicit drugs.  (Id.)  Plaintiff alleges this occurred more than 30
times in the 5 years before the May 10, 2022 incident.  
Plaintiff alleges that on the evening of
May 9, 2022, he was at Toal’s property because Toal offered drugs to Plaintiff
in exchange for sex.  Plaintiff alleges
that he went to the bathroom to use heroin. 
He alleges that when he returned to sleep, Toal heard Plaintiff
“snoring” loudly.  Plaintiff alleges that
he is not a snorer, but instead that a common symptom of heroin overdose is the
“death rattle,” which is a gurgling sound that is caused by buildup of mucus
and saliva in the throat as systems shut down. 
Plaintiff alleges that Toal did not assist Plaintiff until 18 hours
later when he called for medical help for Plaintiff’s drug overdose.  Plaintiff alleges that as a result of the
failure to get immediate help, Plaintiff has suffered brain injury, he is a functional
quadriplegic, and he will require 24-hour assistance with daily activities for
the rest of his life. 
The first amended complaint (“FAC”), filed
August 12, 2024, alleges causes of action for: (1) general negligence; (2)
premises liability; and (3) violation of Civil Code, § 52.5.  
B.    
Motions
on Calendar 
On September 13, 2024, Defendants filed a
demurrer and motion to strike in a single filing.  
On September 30, 2024 at 2:56 p.m., Plaintiff
filed opposition briefs.  On September
30, 2024 at 5:34 p.m., Plaintiff filed another set of opposition briefs.  The Court will consider the later-filed
opposition briefs as the operative opposition papers.  
On October 4, 2024, Defendants filed reply
briefs. 
DISCUSSION RE
DEMURRER
            Defendants
demur to the 1st to 3rd causes of action in the FAC on
the grounds that they fail to allege sufficient facts and are uncertain. 
A.    1st and
2nd causes of action for general negligence and premises liability
The elements of a
premises liability claim and negligence claim are the same: a legal duty of
care, breach of that duty, and proximate cause resulting in injury.  (Kesner
v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1158.)
            The
1st cause of action is summarized above in the “Background”
section.  In the 2nd cause of
action, Plaintiff alleges that Toal coerced and manipulated Plaintiff and
provided drugs to Plaintiff such that he overdosed and suffered grievous
injuries while on Defendants’ property. 
(FAC at 2nd cause of action.) 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants owned/leased, managed, controlled, and
operated the property.  (Id.)  Plaintiff incorporates the allegations of the
1st cause of action into the 2nd cause of action.  
            Defendants
demur to the 1st and 2nd causes of action, arguing that
Plaintiff has not alleged that Defendants owed or breached a duty of care and
Defendants are immune for any delay in calling for medical assistance.  
Defendants argue
that they cannot be liable to Plaintiff because Plaintiff alleges he met Toal
on the dating app when they were both adults and their relationship was
consensual, he was a drug addict, he willingly took heroin by himself, and he thereby
caused his own injuries.  Defendants rely
on Civil Code, § 1714, which states in relevant part: “Everyone is responsible,
not only for the result of his or her willful acts, but also for an injury
occasioned to another by his or her want of ordinary care or skill in the
management of his or her property or person, except so far as the latter
has, willfully or by want of ordinary care, brought the injury upon himself or
herself.”  (Civ. Code, § 1714(a) [emphasis
added].)  Defendants’ arguments in the
demurrer focus on Plaintiff’s ingestion of drugs, as opposed to Plaintiff’s
allegations that Defendants failed to timely seek medical attention on
Plaintiff’s behalf after he took drugs that were provided to him by Defendants.  Here, there are sufficient allegations that
Toal knew Plaintiff had taken drugs and was “snoring” (though he was ordinarily
not a snorer); Toal was concerned he could be liable for Plaintiff’s drug
overdose as he participated in the illicit activity and encouraged Plaintiff to
become chemically impaired; Toal delayed seeking medical attention for
Plaintiff in hopes that the situation would resolve itself and Plaintiff would
“wake up”; and Toal sought medical help for Plaintiff more than 18 hours after
Plaintiff suffered from a drug overdose at the property.  (FAC at 1st cause of action.)  Plaintiff alleges that Defendants failed to
take any action to either prevent the harm and/or warn about the dangers at the
subject property.  (Id.)  There are sufficient allegations to allege a
duty and breach of that duty.  
Next, Defendants argue that they are immune from liability for their
delay in calling for medical assistance. 
Health & Safety Code, § 1799.102 states in relevant part:
(a) No person who in good faith, and not for
compensation, renders emergency medical or nonmedical care at the scene of an
emergency shall be liable for any civil damages resulting from any act or
omission. … This subdivision applies only to the medical, law enforcement, and
emergency personnel specified in this chapter.
(b)(1) It is the intent of the Legislature to
encourage other individuals to volunteer, without compensation, to assist
others in need during an emergency, while ensuring that those volunteers who
provide care or assistance act responsibly.
(2) Except for those persons specified in
subdivision (a), no person who in good faith, and not for compensation, renders
emergency medical or nonmedical care or assistance at the scene of an emergency
shall be liable for civil damages resulting from any act or omission other than
an act or omission constituting gross negligence or willful or wanton
misconduct. …
(Health & Saf. Code, § 1799.102(a)-(b).)  At this time, the Court cannot ascertain
whether this defense or immunity will apply based on the allegations of the FAC
only.  The Court will not make a
determination at the pleading stage whether Defendants acted in “good faith”
when delaying their call to obtain medical services on behalf of Plaintiff.  This argument and defense are better left for
the motion for summary judgment or trial phase upon the consideration of
evidence. 
Defendants also
argue that the FAC assumes that Toal was familiar with symptoms of heroin
overdose and that he did nothing (without factual support) in hopes that
Plaintiff would wake up.  Defendants make
arguments that are extrinsic to the facts of the FAC such as arguments that
snoring is a common symptom of sleeping.  However, at the demurrer stage, the
allegations of the FAC are taken as true and whether Defendants were or were
not aware of the difference between snoring and the “death rattle” will be better
determined upon the consideration of evidence. 

At the demurrer
stage, the Court finds that the allegations sufficiently allege that Defendants
owed a duty to Plaintiff while he was on Defendants’ property and that they
breached their duty by failing to timely seek medical assistance on Plaintiff’s
behalf.  Whether Plaintiff can prove
these allegations and whether Defendants’ claim of immunity applies is better
determined at a later stage upon the consideration of evidence.  The demurrer to the 1st and 2nd
causes of action is overruled.  
B.     3rd
cause of action for violation of Civil Code, § 52.5
Civil Code, §
52.5(a) states in relevant part: “A victim of human
trafficking, as defined in Section 236.1 of the Penal Code, may bring a civil
action for actual damages, compensatory damages, punitive damages, injunctive
relief, any combination of those, or any other appropriate relief.”  Penal Code, § 236.1(a) states: “A person who
deprives or violates the personal liberty of another with the intent to obtain
forced labor or services, is guilty of human trafficking and shall be punished
by imprisonment in the state prison for 5, 8, or 12 years and a fine of not
more than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000).”  (Pen. Code, § 236.1(a).)  
Defendants argue
that the 3rd cause of action fails to allege facts that Plaintiff
was a victim of human trafficking and that Defendants were found guilty of
section 236.1.   
The allegations of
the 3rd cause of action are similar to those alleged in the 1st
cause of action.  Plaintiff has not
alleged facts that he is was a victim of human trafficking as defined under
Penal Code, § 236.1 or was forced to engaged in labor or services.  Plaintiff alleges facts that he met Toal on a
dating app when Toal and Plaintiff were both adults, such that any allegations
regarding human trafficking involving a minor do not apply.  (See Penal Code, § 236.1(c).)  The Court finds that the allegations fail to
rise to a statutory cause of action for human trafficking.  
As such, the
demurrer to the 3rd cause of action is sustained.  Plaintiff was
given a prior opportunity to amend this cause of action, but has failed to
allege a viable cause of action under Civil Code, § 52.5 in the FAC.  As such, the demurrer to the 3rd
cause of action is sustained without leave to amend.   
DISCUSSION
RE MOTION TO STRIKE
            Defendants move to
strike portions of the 1st cause of action, the attachment for
exemplary damages, and Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages on page 3 of the
FAC. 
            First, Defendants argue that
the 1st cause of action for negligence improperly includes a
reference to the duty of care owed by landowners.  They reference the phrase that Defendants had
“a duty to use care to avoid injury to others, and may be liable if his
careless conduct injures another person.” 
(FAC at 1st cause of action.) 
The Court does not find this allegation to be improper as it alleges a
general duty of care.  As such, the
motion to strike this allegation is denied. 
(The Court notes that the sentence before the one sought to be stricken
alleges, “As owner of the property, Defendant Toal and/or Trustee Toal has a
duty to use reasonable care to maintain the property in a reasonably safe
condition and prevent injury and harm to guests.”  Defendants do not seek to strike this
allegation from the 1st cause of action for general negligence.) 
            Second, Defendants move
to strike the attachment for exemplary damages and the prayer for punitive
damages.  (FAC, §14(a)(2); FAC at
Exemplary Damages Attachment.)  
A complaint including a request for
punitive damages must include allegations showing that the plaintiff is
entitled to an award of punitive damages.  (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253,
1255.)  A claim for punitive damages cannot be pleaded generally and
allegations that a defendant acted "with oppression, fraud and
malice" toward plaintiff are insufficient legal conclusions to show that
the plaintiff is entitled to an award of punitive damages.  (Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73
Cal.App.3d 864, 872.)  Specific factual allegations are required to
support a claim for punitive damages.  (Id.)
Civil Code § 3294
authorizes a plaintiff to obtain an award of punitive damages when there is
clear and convincing evidence that the defendant engaged in malice, oppression,
or fraud.  Section 3294(c) defines the terms in the following manner:
(1)  
"Malice" means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.
(2)  
"Oppression" means despicable
conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious
disregard of that person's rights.
(3)  
"Fraud" means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. 
            Defendants argue that
the FAC alleges salacious, conclusory facts without clear and convincing
evidence against Defendants, such that punitive damages are not warranted.  They argue that the FAC fails to provide
facts that Defendants have a medical background such that they were aware that
Plaintiff’s snoring was instead the “death rattle” of a heroin overdose.  The Court has reviewed the allegations of the
FAC. Taken at face value, the allegations state that Defendant used his own
possession of illegal drugs to induce an addict to submit to unwanted sex knowing
that Plaintiff was willing to degrade himself in return for satisfying his
addiction. Having supplied dangerous illegal drugs to Plaintiff, he then
ignored the obvious dangers to Plaintiff from the illegal activity he had
facilitated. At the pleading stage, Plaintiff need not provide clear and
convincing evidence of Defendants’ conduct warranting punitive damages. Enough
has been alleged here to allow the case to proceed. Undoubtedly there are many
uncertain facts to be determined, and this decision may be re-examined at a
later stage based on the development of the evidence. But for now, the motion
to strike the allegations for punitive damages is denied. 
            Third, Defendants move
to strike damages under Civil Code, § 52.5 in connection with the 3rd
cause of action, including any request for punitive damages.  For the reasons stated above with respect to
the demurrer to the 3rd cause of action, the motion to strike is
granted without leave to amend.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
            Defendants John T. Toal, John T.
Toal as trustee of the John T. Toal Trust, and the John T. Toal Trust’s demurrer
to the FAC is overruled as to the 1st and 2nd causes of action.  The demurrer is sustained without leave to
amend as to the 3rd cause of action. 
            In light of the ruling on the
demurrer to the 3rd cause of action, the motion to strike is granted
without leave to amend as to damages sought in connection with the 3rd
cause of action.  The remainder of the
motion to strike is denied. 
Defendants
shall
give notice of this order.  
 
 
DATED:  October 11, 2024                                                    ___________________________
                                                                                          John
J. Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court 