 Case Number:  23BBCV01727    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
Jaron
  onorati, 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
Vijaya
  L. Lagudu, 
                        Defendant.


 
Case
  No.:  23BBCV01727
 
  Hearing Date:  October 11, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion for leave of Court for
  neuropsychological examination and asSessment of plaintiff (CCP § 2032.310)
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiff Jaron Onorati (“Plaintiff”)
alleges that on August 1, 2021, she was lawfully walking on Vineland Avenue
near the cross street of Burbank Boulvard in North Hollywood when Defendant
Vijaya L. Lagudu unexpectedly lost control of his vehicle and struck Plaintiff.  
The complaint, filed July 28, 2023,
alleges a single cause of action for negligence.  
On February 14, 2024, Plaintiff named
Thanmye Lagudu as Doe 1. 
B.    
Motion
on Calendar 
On August 16, 2024, Defendants Vijaya and
Thanmye Lagudu (“Defendants”) filed a motion for leave of Court to conduct the
neuropsychological examination and assessment of Plaintiff pursuant to CCP §
2032.310.  
On September 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition brief. 
LEGAL STANDARD
            CCP § 2032.310 states: 
(a) If any party desires to obtain discovery by a
physical examination other than that described in Article 2 (commencing with
Section 2032.210), or by a mental examination, the party shall obtain leave of
court.
(b) A motion for an examination under subdivision
(a) shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person
or persons who will perform the examination. The motion shall be accompanied by
a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.
(c) Notice of the motion shall be served on the
person to be examined and on all parties who have appeared in the action.
(CCP § 2032.310.) 

CCP § 2032.320 states in relevant part: 
(a) The court shall grant a motion for a physical or mental examination
under Section 2032.310 only for good cause
shown.
(b) If a party stipulates as
provided in subdivision (c), the court shall not order a mental examination of
a person for whose personal injuries a recovery is being sought except on a
showing of exceptional circumstances.
(c) A stipulation by a party under this
subdivision shall include both of the following:
(1) A stipulation that no claim is being made for
mental and emotional distress over and above that usually associated with the
physical injuries claimed.
(2) A stipulation that no expert testimony regarding
this usual mental and emotional distress will be presented at trial in support
of the claim for damages.
(d) An order granting a physical or mental examination shall specify the person or persons who may
perform the examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests
and procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.
(CCP § 2032.320.) 

DISCUSSION

            Defendants move to compel the neuropsychological
examination and assessment of Plaintiff. 
They seek to have the examination be conducted by neuropsychology
specialist, Philip K. Stenquist, PhD, ABCN, and for it to take place at 9001
Wilshire Boulevard, Suite 204, Beverly Hills, CA 90211 on November 19, 2024 at
9:00 a.m.  (Cadena Decl., Ex. C [Dr.
Stenquist’s CV].)  Defendants anticipate
the examination to include a detailed history and interview (2-3 hours),
neuropsychological testing (3-4 hours), and additional time to score and
prepare a comprehensive written report (1-2 hours), with breaks.  They state that the assessment will examine
Plaintiff’s “intellectual functioning, language processing skills, perceptual
skills, higher motor functions, attention and concentration skills, judgment,
reasoning skills, mental flexibility, memory, constructional skills, abstract
thinking and conceptualization skills, problem solving skills, behavioral
regulation, personality alterations, and emotional functioning” and that none
of the tests/procedures will be painful, protected, or intrusive.  (Mot. at pp.5-6.)  
            Defendants
argue that there is good cause to grant the motion because Plaintiff stated in
his special interrogatory responses that: “Plaintiff continued to suffer from
headaches and dizziness. Plaintiff consulted with Dr. Madhu Katakia, a
neurologist with a final impression of traumatic brain injury, cerebral
concussion, headache memory impairment, history of ringing in the ear, probably
a manifestation of post-concussion syndrome, to rule out cerebral injury and
cervical and lumbosacral sprain. [¶] As such, considering the above-mentioned
injury producing incident, the injuries caused by said subject incident, and
the assessments, diagnoses, treatments and other related medical care that
followed, Plaintiff alleges traumatic brain injury.”  (Cadena Decl., Ex. B [Pl.’s response to SROG
No. 15, 7:17-23].)  At his deposition,
Plaintiff testified that he experienced ringing in his ears, headaches, dizzy
spells, and memory loss when he first saw the neurologist on February 7,
2022.  (Cadena Decl., Ex. A [Pl.’s Depo.
at 38:16-23, 48:17-23, and 48:24-49:8].) 
Thus, Defendants argue that they should be able to conduct Plaintiff’s
mental examination to investigate Plaintiff’s injuries and damages.  Defendants also argue that Plaintiff has been
examined by his own neurologist Dr. Katakia, whose final impressions were TBI, among
other conditions.  (Mot. at p.4.)  They argue that Dr. Katakia referred
Plaintiff to neuropsychologist Lawrence G. Lyons, PhD for memory impairment and
that Dr. Lyons performed a comprehensive evaluation of Plaintiff’s complaint of
memory loss in his August 22, 2022 report. 
(Id.)  
            In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendants have not established good cause to
justify an examination, the examination is unnecessary as the type of tests
anticipated would not explain his symptoms, and he would experience burden and
harassment if he must submit to a 6–7-hour examination.   
            The
Court finds that Defendants have established good cause to warrant granting
this motion and compelling Plaintiff to submit to a neuropsychological
examination and assessment.  As indicated
by Plaintiff’s discovery responses, Plaintiff is now claiming TBI and he
testified at his deposition that he has experienced memory loss, ringing in his
ears, headaches, and other conditions following the subject incident.  Plaintiff also does not deny that he was seen
by his own neuropsychologist and that he was evaluated for the purposes of this
litigation.  As the plaintiff in this
action, Plaintiff is expected to experience some burden in the litigation, such
as submitting to his deposition and submitting to defense medical examinations,
particularly if Plaintiff is claiming damages as a result of the subject
incident.  Thus, the Court grants the
motion to compel Plaintiff to attend a defense neuropsychological
examination.   
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
            Defendants Vijaya
and Thanmye Lagudu’s motion to compel Plaintiff to submit to a
neuropsychological examination and assessment is granted.  The examination shall be conducted by Philip
K. Stenquist, PhD, ABCN, and for it to take place at 9001 Wilshire Boulevard,
Suite 204, Beverly Hills, CA 90211 on November 19, 2024 at 9:00 a.m.  If this is not a mutually agreeable date and
time, the parties shall be ordered to meet and confer and find a mutually
agreeable date and time within 60 days of this order.  
Defendants shall provide
notice of this order. 
 
 
DATED:  October 11, 2024                                                    ___________________________
                                                                                          John
J. Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court  