 Case Number:  22STCV19086    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


January
  23, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV19086




MOTIONS:  


Compel
  Further Responses to Requests for Production, Set One




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Ramela Ouzounian Beer




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Mona Fard 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On June 10, 2022, Plaintiffs Ramela Ouzounian Beer, Michael Beer, and
James Beer, a minor by and through his guardian ad litem, Ramela Beer, filed a
complaint against Defendants Mohammad Reza Danesh and Mona Fard for injuries
related to a motor vehicle accident. 
 
On April 3, 2023, Plaintiff served Defendant Mona Fard (“Defendant”)
with Request for Production, Set One. An unverified response was served May 19,
2023. Counsel met and conferred and Defendant served a further response on
August 1, 2023. Plaintiff still maintained that the responses were insufficient
and filed this motion. 
 
This motion was originally scheduled for October 25, 2023. However,
the Court, on its own, continued the motion to December 12, 2023 to allow the
parties to attend an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”) on November 27, 2023.
(See Min. Order, 10/16/23.) After the IDC was held, the Court continued the
motion to the present date and ordered Plaintiff to file a supplemental motion
advising the Court of remaining issues by January 8, 2024. (Min. Order,
12/12/23.)
 
On January 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed a supplemental brief stating that
the sole remaining issue is the response to Request for Production, Number 9. 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
On November 27, 2023, the parties appeared for a scheduled Informal
Discovery Conference (IDC) pursuant to the Court’s Eighth Amended Standing
Order. Therefore, the IDC requirement has been met. (Min. Order, 11/27/23.) 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Compel
Further Responses
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310(a) provides that
on receipt of a response to a request for production of documents, the demanding
party may move for an order compelling further responses if:¿ 
¿ 
(1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete.¿ 
(2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive.¿ 
(3) An objection in the response is without merit or too
general.¿¿ 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.320(a) provides that
“[i]f a party
filing a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling
under Sections 2031.210, 2031.220, 2031.230, 2031.240, and 2031.280 thereafter
fails to permit the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling in accordance
with that party's statement of compliance, the demanding party may move for an
order compelling compliance.” 
 
“A representation of inability to comply with the particular demand
for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall affirm that a diligent
search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that
demand. This statement shall also specify whether the inability to comply is
because the particular item or category has never existed, has been destroyed,
has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the
possession, custody, or control of the responding party. The statement shall
set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization known or
believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or
category of item.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.230.)
¿ 
“Unless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of
the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or
on or before any specific later date to which the demanding party and the
responding party have agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any right
to compel a further response to the demand.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310(c).)¿¿¿ 
 
The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response to a
demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310 (h).) 
 
Request for
Production, Set One, Number 9 asks for “True and correct copies of all
cellular device records related to YOUR use of a cellular device from fifteen
minutes prior to the INCIDENT through fifteen minutes after the INCIDENT.” 
 
In
Plaintiff’s supplemental motion, she states that following the IDC, Defendant
filed an insufficient response. Prior to the IDC, Defendant’s response to
number 9 was the following:
“Objection,
Invasion of privacy, calls for speculation, lacks foundation, assumes facts not
in evidence, not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.” 
 
However,
on December 7, 2023, Defendant served the following response:
 
“Objection,
Invasion of privacy, calls for speculation, lacks foundation, assumes facts not
in evidence, not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence. 
Without waiving
said objections: Responding party is the process of attempting to access phone
records pursuant to this request; responding party is making diligent effort
pursuant to the Code to seek these records and their possible existence. Once
such records are obtained, they will be forwarded to plaintiff.”
(Akargian Decl. ¶
3, Exh. 1.) 
 
Plaintiff
argues that despite this response on December 7, 2023, on January 8, 2024, responses
had not been served. Plaintiff submits a January 8, 2024 email correspondence
between the parties indicating that Defendant may have received a new phone
number and was still in the process of obtaining the records. Defendant’s
counsel indicated he would provide a supplemental response in the next few days
after speaking with Defendant. (Id. ¶ 4, Exh. 2.) 
 
            The parties have not filed anything
indicating that further responses were served. Defendant did not file an
opposition to Plaintiff’s supplemental motion. Therefore, since Defendant
responded it was making a diligent effort to obtain the phone records,
Defendant must provide a further response either agreeing to produce said
records or a response complying with Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.230. 
 
Plaintiff
did not request monetary sanctions in the original motion or supplemental
motion. Therefore, the Court declines to award sanctions. 
 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff Ramela Ouzounian Beer’s motion
to compel further responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One,
number 9. Defendant Mona Fard shall serve a further response within 15 days.
 
Plaintiff
to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 
 