 Case Number:  22STCV07018    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


January 23, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV07018




MOTIONS


Consolidate




MOVING PARTY


Defendants Dora Rodriguez Sandoval and Ricardo Sandoval




OPPOSING PARTY


None



 
BACKGROUND
 
Defendants Dora Rodriguez Sandoval and Ricardo Sandoval (“Defendants”)
move the Court to consolidate this case with The Kroger Co. v. Dora Sandoval
(Case No. 22STLC02971) (“Kroger”) for all purposes.  There is no opposition to the Motion.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
California Code of Civil Procedure
section 1048 states: “When actions involving a common question of law or fact
are pending before the court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any or
all the matters in issue in the actions; it may order all the actions
consolidated and it may make such orders concerning proceedings therein as may
tend to avoid unnecessary costs or delay.” 
 
Under California Rules of Court,
rule 3.350, subdivision (a)(1), a notice of motion to consolidate must: (A)
List all named parties in each case, the names of those who have appeared, and
the names of their respective attorneys of record; (B) Contain the captions of
all the cases sought to be consolidated, with the lowest numbered case shown
first; and (C) Be filed in each case sought to be consolidated. (2) The motion
to consolidate: (A) Is deemed a single motion for the purpose of determining
the appropriate filing fee, but memorandums, declarations, and other supporting
papers must be filed only in the lowest numbered case; (B) Must be served on
all attorneys of record and all non-represented parties in all of the cases
sought to be consolidated; and (C) Must have a proof of service filed as part
of the motion.  
 
¿“Cases may not be consolidated
unless they are in the same department. A motion to consolidate two or more
cases may be noticed and heard after the cases, initially filed in different
department, have been¿related¿into a single department, or if the cases were
already assigned to that department.” (LASC Local Court Rules, Rule 3.3(g)(1).)
 
The purpose of consolidation is to
avoid unnecessary costs or delay, avoid duplication of procedure, particularly
in the proof of issues common to both action, and avoid inconsistent results by
hearing and deciding common issues together. 
(See Estate of Baker (1982) 131 Cal.App.3d 471, 485.)  The granting or denial of a motion to
consolidate rests in the trial court's sound discretion, and will not be
reversed except upon a clear showing of abuse of discretion. (Feliner v.
Steinbaum (1955) 132 Cal.App.2d 509, 511.) 
Each case presents its own facts and circumstances, but the court
generally considers the following: (1) timeliness of the motion: i.e., whether
granting consolidation would delay the trial of any of the cases involved; (2)
complexity: i.e., whether joining the actions involved would make the trial too
confusing or complex for a jury; and (3) prejudice: i.e, whether consolidation
would adversely affect the rights of any party. (See State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins.
Co. v. Superior Court (1956) 47 Cal.2d 428, 430–431.)  
 
DISCUSSION
 
As an initial matter, the two cases
have been deemed related and are pending in Department 32; 22STCV07018 was designated
the lead case. (Min. Order, 10/27/23.) 
 
Defendants argue that the two cases
result from the same motor vehicle accident that occurred on April 29, 2020 in
El Monte, California. The Plaintiff in Kroger is the employer of the
Plaintiff in the present case, seeking to recover worker’s compensation
benefits. Both cases allege causes of action for negligence. As a result, the
Court finds that the two cases involve common questions of law and fact. Although
the proof of service of this motion does not indicate which attorneys pertain
to which Plaintiff, the Court notes that the list matches the counsel named in
each complaint.
 
Therefore, in light of the above,
and seeing no opposition, the motion to consolidate for all purposes is
granted.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion to
Consolidate is GRANTED.
 
All future papers must be filed in 22STCV07018
only and all future hearings must be scheduled in 22STCV07018 only. All hearing
dates in 22STLC02971 are advanced and vacated.
 
Defendants shall provide notice of
this order and file a proof of service of such.
 
 