  Case Number:  21STCV00267    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


January
  23, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV00267




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Leave to File Cross Complaint




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant City of Los Angeles




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed



 
BACKGROUND
 
On January 5, 2021, Plaintiff Sherry
Antonio (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against City of Los Angeles
(“City”) alleging negligence and
premises liability after tripping on a sidewalk.
 
On April 24, 2023, City filed
its answer. 
 
On June 30, 2023, City filed
the instant motion for leave to file a cross-complaint against Omir Tcherchi,
individually and as Trustee of the Omir Tcherchi Seven Seventy Trust, and Roes
1 to 10. No opposition has been filed.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the
initial complaint or cross-complaint against the cross-complainant must be
filed before or at the same time as the answer to the initial complaint or
cross-complaint, which answer must be filed within 30 days of service of the
complaint or cross-complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 412.20(a)(3),
428.50(a), 432.10.)  Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any time
before the court has set a trial date.  (Code Civ. Proc.
§428.50(b).)   
 
If a party fails to file a cross-complaint within the time
limits described above, they must obtain permission from the court to file the
cross-complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 426.50, 428.50(c).)  Leave to
file a mandatory cross-complaint must be granted absent bad faith.  (Silver
Organizations, Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 99.)  Leave to
file a permissive cross-complaint need only be granted in the interest of
justice.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 428.50(c).)          
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, City seeks to file a cross
complaint against Omir Tcherchi,
individually and as Trustee of the Omir Tcherchi Seven Seventy Trust, and Roes
1 to 10. City seeks to bring causes of action for indemnification,
apportionment of fault, and declaratory relief. City argues that the proposed
cross-defendants are liable for Plaintiff’s injuries. 
Therefore, the complaint and cross-complaint
arise from the same incident and should be litigated together. Trial is
scheduled for June 17, 2024, and there does not appear to be prejudice to any
party by the filing of the cross-complaint. Accordingly, the Court finds it to
be in the interests of justice to grant leave to file a cross-complaint. 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS City’s motion for leave to file a cross-complaint. 
City is ordered to file and serve the cross-complaint within 20 days.
 
City shall give notice of the
Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.
 
 