  Case Number:  23STCV24849    Hearing Date:   March 25, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Demurrer
 
Moving Party: Defendant
Berkshire Hathaway Direct Insurance Company
Resp. Party:    Plaintiff Black Brewed Coffee L.L.C.
 
 
SUBJECT:        Motion to
Strike
 
Moving Party: Defendant
Berkshire Hathaway Direct Insurance Company
Resp. Party:    Plaintiff Black Brewed Coffee L.L.C.
 
 
 
The Demurrer is OVERRULED. 
 
The Motion to Strike is DENIED. 
 
BACKGROUND:
        
On October 11, 2023, Plaintiff Black Brewed Coffee L.L.C. filed its
Complaint against Defendant Berkshire Hathaway Direct Insurance Company on
causes of action of declaratory relief, breach of contract, and insurance bad
faith. 
 
On February 26, 2024, Defendant filed: (1) Demurrer to the Complaint; and
(2) Motion to Strike Portions of the Complaint. Defendant concurrently filed a
Proposed Order with each of these filings. 
 
On March 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed: (1) Opposition to Demurrer; and (2)
Opposition to Motion to Strike. 
 
On March 18, 2024, Defendant filed: (1) Reply in support of Demurrer;
and (2) Reply in support of Motion to Strike. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Demurrer
 
A. 
    Legal
Standard
 
“The party
against whom a complaint or cross-complaint has been filed may object, by
demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30, to the pleading on any one or
more of” various grounds listed in statute. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10.)
 
“When any ground
for objection to a complaint, cross-complaint, or answer appears on the face
thereof, or from any matter of which the court is required to or may take
judicial notice, the objection on that ground may be taken by a demurrer to the
pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a).)
 
“A demurrer to a
complaint or cross-complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or cross-complaint
or to any of the causes of action stated therein.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.50,
subd. (a).)
 
“In reviewing the sufficiency
of a complaint against a general demurrer, we are guided by long-settled rules.
We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. We also consider matters which may be judicially
noticed. Further, we give the complaint a reasonable interpretation,
reading it as a whole and its parts in their context.” (Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal.3d 311, 318, citations and internal quotation marks omitted.)
 
B. 
    Discussion
 
Defendant demurs to all three causes of
action in the Complaint. 
 
1. 
    Declaratory
Relief
 
a.  
    Legal
Standard
 
“To qualify for declaratory relief, a party
would have to demonstrate its action presented two essential elements: (1) a
proper subject of declaratory relief, and (2) an actual controversy involving
justiciable questions relating to the party’s rights or obligations.” (Jolley
v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909, quotation marks
and brackets omitted.)
 
A cause of action for declaratory relief
should not be used as a second cause of action for the determination of
identical issues raised in another cause of action. (Gen. of Am. Ins. Co. v.
Lilly (1968) 258 Cal.App.2d 465, 470.) “The availability of another form of
relief that is adequate will usually justify refusal to grant declaratory
relief” (Cal. Ins. Guar. Ass’n v. Super. Ct. (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1617,
1624), and a duplicative cause of action is subject to demurrer (Palm
Springs Villas II Homeowners Ass’n, Inc. v. Parth (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th
268, 290). 
 
Further, “there is no basis for declaratory
relief where only past wrongs are involved.” (Osseous Tech. of Am., Inc. v.
DiscoveryOrtho Partners LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 357, 366, quotation
marks omitted.)
 
b.  
    Discussion
 
Defendant demurs to the first cause of action for declaratory relief,
arguing that the cause of action should be dismissed because it is wholly
derivative of and subsumed under the breach of contract claim. (Demurrer, p.
7:20–22.)
 
The Court disagrees with this argument. 
 
“The court must, in every stage of an action,
disregard any error, improper ruling, instruction, or defect, in the pleadings
or proceedings which, in the opinion of said court, does not affect the
substantial rights of the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 475.)
 
The request for declaratory relief is separate from the claim of breach
of contract. Even if the cause of action for declaratory relief is duplicative,
pleading both causes of action does not affect Defendant’s substantial rights.
Thus, to the extent it is duplicative, that issue can be disregarded at the
present time.
 
The Court OVERRULES the Demurrer to the first cause of action. 
 
2. 
    Breach
of Contract
 
a.  
    Legal
Standard
 
To state a cause of action for breach of
contract, a plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the existence of the
contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis
W. Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)
 
If a breach of contract claim “is based on
alleged breach of a written contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the
body of the complaint or a copy of the written agreement must be attached and
incorporated by reference.” (Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999)
74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) 
 
“In an action based on a written contract, a
plaintiff may plead the legal effect of the contract rather than its precise
language.” (Constr. Protection Servs., Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co.
(2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198–199.)
 
b.  
    Discussion
 
Defendant demurs to the second cause of action for breach of contract,
arguing that Plaintiff has not stated facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action for breach of contract. (Demurrer, p. 8:14–15.)
 
The Court disagrees with this argument. 
 
Among other things, Plaintiff alleges: (1) that there is an insurance
contract between the Parties; (2) that Plaintiff performed under the contract;
(3) that Defendant improperly denied coverage under the contract; and (4) that
Plaintiff was harmed by Defendant’s breach of the contract. (Complaint, ¶¶ 6,
8–14, 21–23.)
 
For the purposes of a demurrer, the Court must assume the truth of the
allegations and the allegations state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action for breach of contract. 
 
The Court OVERRULES the Demurrer to the second cause of action for
breach of contract. 
 
3. 
    Insurance
Bad Faith
 
a.  
    Legal
Standard
 
“Insurance is initially
obtained for the protection of the insured, and the insurer's primary duty is
to protect the interests of its own insured.” (Moradi-Shalal v. Fireman’s
Fund Ins. Companies (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287, 312.)
 
“The distinction
between tort and contract is well grounded in common law, and divergent
objectives underlie the remedies created in the two areas. . . . Every contract
imposes upon each party a duty of good faith and fair dealing in its
performance and its enforcement. .
. . Because the covenant is a contract term, however, compensation for its
breach has almost always been limited to contract rather than tort remedies. . . . An exception to this general rule has developed in the
context of insurance contracts where, for a variety of policy reasons, courts
have held that breach of the implied covenant will provide the basis for an
action in tort. California has a well-developed judicial history addressing
this exception. Accordingly, when the insurer unreasonably and in bad faith
withholds payment of the claim of its insured, it is subject to liability in
tort.” (Foley v. Interactive Data Corp. (1988) 47 Cal.3d 654, 683–84,
citations and paragraph breaks omitted.)
 
“[B]ad
faith insurance practices may qualify as any of the three statutory forms of
unfair competition. They are unlawful; the insurer's obligation to
act fairly and in good faith to meet its contractual responsibilities is
imposed by the common law, as well as by statute. They
are unfair to
the insured; unfairness lies at the heart of a bad faith cause of action. They
may also qualify as fraudulent business
practices.” (Zhang v. Super. Ct. (2013) 57 Cal.4th 364, 380, citations
omitted, emphases in original.)
 
“[T]here is no
bar to common law fraud and bad faith actions.” (Zhang, supra, at
p. 380, citation omitted.)
 
b.  
    Discussion
 
Defendant demurs to the third cause of action for insurance bad faith,
arguing that Plaintiff has not stated facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action for insurance bad faith. (Demurrer, p. 9:16–17.)
 
        The Court disagrees with this argument. 
 
        Among other things, Plaintiff alleges:
(1) that Defendant breached the contract; (2) that Defendant breached the
contract’s implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing by consciously
deciding to wrongfully and without proper cause deny Plaintiff the rights and
benefits to which it was entitled; (3) that Defendant wrongfully refused to
honor its obligations under the contract by (a) requiring Plaintiff to appear
for an examination under oath as a condition of coverage even though the policy
did not require it and (b) refusing reasonable requests for documents made by
Plaintiff; and (4) that Plaintiff has suffered from Defendant’s breach of the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing in the contract. (Complaint, ¶¶
25–29.)
 
These allegations state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action for insurance bad faith. 
 
The Court OVERRULES the Demurrer to the third cause of action for
insurance bad faith.
 
C. 
    Conclusion
 
The Demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
II.      
Motion
to Strike
 
A. 
    Legal
Standard
 
“Any party,
within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of
motion to strike the whole or any part thereof, but this time limitation shall
not apply to motions specified in subdivision (e).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435,
subd. (b)(1).)
 
“The court may, upon a motion made
pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper: 
 
“(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading. 
 
“(b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
436.)
 
“The grounds for
a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from
any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437, subd. (a).)
 
“A notice of motion to strike a portion of a pleading must
quote in full the portions sought to be stricken except where the motion is to
strike an entire paragraph, cause of action, count, or defense. Specifications
in a notice must be numbered consecutively.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1322(a).)
 
B. 
    Discussion
 
Defendant moves the Court to strike Plaintiff’s request for attorney’s
fees. (Motion to Strike, p. 5:16–17.)
 
The Court disagrees with Defendant’s argument. 
 
Plaintiff sufficiently alleges a cause of action for insurance bad
faith. Thus, Plaintiff is allowed to pray for attorney’s fees. It will
ultimately be Plaintiff’s burden to prove that it is entitled to the relief
that it seeks.  
 
C. 
    Conclusion
 
The Motion to Strike is DENIED. 
 