  Case Number:  22STCV08163    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  73 TENTATIVEOpportunity Financial, LLC v. Clothilde Hewlett, Commissioner22STCV08163The court issues its rulings in connection with OppFi’s two motions to seal (8554, 0556).In NBC Subsidiary (KNBC-TV), Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1178 (“NBC Subsidiary”), the California Supreme Court held that the First Amendment provides “a right of access to ordinary civil trial and proceedings.” (Id. at p. 1212.)“In response to NBC Subsidiary, the Judicial Council promulgated ‘the sealed records rules,’ [California Rules of Court] rules 2.550 . . . [and] 2.551. [Footnote omitted.] [Citation.] The rules expressly implement the First Amendment principles espoused in NBC Subsidiary and establish a presumption that ‘court records . . . be open’ unless the law requires confidentiality.” (Overstock.com, Inc. v. Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 471, 486 (“Overstock.com”).)According to rule 2.550, “[t]he court may order that a record be filed under seal only if it expressly finds facts that establish:(1) There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record;(2) The overriding interest supports sealing the record;(3) A substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed;(4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and(5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.”(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d).) “Unless the context indicates otherwise, ‘record’ means all or a portion of any document, paper, exhibit, transcript, or other thing filed or lodged with the court, by electronic means or otherwise.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(b)(1).) “A ‘sealed’ record is a record that by court order is not open to inspection by the public.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(b)(2).)Rule 2.551(a) requires a court order for “[a] record . . . [to] be filed under seal . . .,” and “[t]he court must not permit a record to be filed under seal based solely on the agreement or stipulation of the parties.”Further, an application to seal must be accompanied by a declaration containing facts sufficient to justify sealing. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551(b)(1) [“A party requesting that a record be filed under seal must file a motion or an application for an order sealing the record. The motion or application must be accompanied by a memorandum and a declaration containing facts sufficient to justify the sealing” (emphasis added)].)“[A] reasoned decision about sealing or unsealing records cannot be made without identifying and weighing the competing interests and concerns. Such a process is impossible without (1) identifying the specific information claimed to be entitled to such treatment; (2) identifying the nature of the harm threatened by disclosure; and (3) identifying and accounting for countervailing considerations. The burden of presenting information sufficient to accomplish the first two steps is logically placed upon the party seeking the sealing of the documents, who is presumptively in the best position to know what disclosures will harm him and how.” (H.B. Fuller Co. v. Doe (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 879, 894 [emphasis added] (“H.B.”).)“[A]t a minimum . . . the party seeking to seal documents, or maintain them under seal, must come forward with a specific enumeration of the facts sought to be withheld and specific reasons for withholding them.” (H.B., supra, 151 Cal.App.4th at p. 894 [emphasis added].)If a court grants the motion to seal, the “order sealing the record must: ¶ (A) Specifically state the facts that support the findings; and ¶ (B) Direct the sealing of only those documents and pages, or, if reasonably practicable, portions of those documents and pages, that contain the material that needsto be placed under seal. All other portions of each document or page must be included in the public file.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(e)(1).)“[W]hether the state-recognized privacy interest in financial information overrides the federal constitutional right of access to court records,” “is necessarily a balancing inquiry, dependent on the facts and circumstances of the particular case.” (Overstock.com, supra, 231 Cal.App.4th at p. 504.)Regarding OppFi’s motion (0556) to seal parts of the Wu declaration submitted by the Commissioner in support of her motion for a preliminary injunction, the court finds that OppFi has carried its burden regarding:1. Exhibit A to Wu declaration: Exhibits A-4 (“Underwriting Requirements”) and Schedule 3.1(m) (“Audit Schedule”).2. Exhibit C: financial terms in paragraphs 1.B, 1.D, and 2.OppFi does not carry its burden as to the other documents that it seeks to seal in connection with the Commissioner’s submission.Regarding OppFi’s motion (8554) to seal certain documents submitted in its opposition, the court finds that OppFi has carried its burden regarding:1. McKay declaration paragraphs 13.b and 13.d: amount of fee.2. Exhibit A to McKay declaration: consistent with above ruling regarding the same exhibit.3. Exhibit L to McKay declaration: consistent with above ruling regarding the same exhibit.OppFi does not carry its burden regarding the other documents that it seeks to seal submitted in opposition to the Commissioner’s motion for a preliminary injunction.The parties’ memoranda and any other ancillary documents will follow the court’s ruling on sealing.The court points out that OppFi is a publicly traded entity. Also OppFi argues throughout, FinWise is a highly regulated bank.