 Case Number:  22STCV30174    Hearing Date:   July 15, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION 
Hearing Date: 7/15/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV30174 YELENA MELOYAN
vs ALBERTSONS COMPANIES, INC.
Moving Party: Plaintiff 
Responding Party: Defendant Albertsons
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: THE COURT WILL HEAR FROM THE PARTIES
 
On December 21, 2023,
Plaintiff sent the initial deposition notice for Defendant Albertson’s
following employees:
1.  Michelle
Rivera
2.  Crystabelle
Cuevas
3.  Trinidad
Schema
4.  Yesenia
Martinez
5.  Elmer
Delosange
6.  Natalie
Vanderham. 
On January 2, 2024,
Defendant served two objections, citing that the employees’ depositions were
unilaterally noticed, and ultimately refused to produce the aforementioned
employees to testify at deposition until after the deposition of Plaintiff’s
witness, Emily Meloyan, was taken. From January to February 2024, Plaintiff’s
counsel sent emails requesting the employees’ depositions to no effect. On
February 27, 2024, Plaintiff moved the Court to compel the employees’
depositions.
Defendant Albertsons
filed an opposition stating that the depositions of Michelle Rivera and Elmer
Delosange had already been completed. The depositions of Trinidad Schema and
Yesenia Martinez were scheduled to proceed on May 28, 2024, and May 31, 2024, respectively.
The deposition of Natalie Vanderham was scheduled to proceed on May 7, 2024,
but was canceled last minute by Ms. Vanderham for reasons unknown to defense
counsel. Crystabelle Cuevas is no longer employed by Albertsons and, therefore,
cannot be produced for deposition by Albertsons. Nonetheless, Plaintiff has
been provided with Ms. Cuevas’s last known contact information.
Defendant does not
oppose the motion on its merits and concedes that there is good cause for the
depositions. Pursuant to that, Defendant has attempted to arrange the
employees’ depositions. Defendant contends that the depositions of Michelle
Rivera and Elmer Delosange have been taken. Crystabelle Cuevas is no longer
employed by Albertsons and should be deposed through a subpoena. Only the
depositions of Trinidad Schema, Yesenia Martinez, and Natalie Vanderham remain
outstanding, but they were allegedly to be completed prior to the motion being
heard. Plaintiff did not file a reply or any other supplemental declaration as
to the status of the outstanding depositions. The Court will hear from the
parties on whether the depositions of these three individuals have been taken.
Plaintiff requests
monetary sanctions; the Court will address that issue when hearing from the
parties but it appears that Defendant has acted with substantial justification
as it noticed Plaintiff’s daughter’s deposition first in November 2023 and
produced the employees’ depositions soon after Plaintiff's daughter’s
deposition was taken. 