 Case Number:  22STCV24820    Hearing Date:   July 15, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR DETERMINATION OF GOOD FAITH
SETTLEMENT
Hearing Date: 7/15/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV24820 MARIE DEKERMENJI vs
CITY OF GLENDALE
Moving Party: Aghayani Defendants
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient 
 
Ruling: MOTION FOR DETERMINATION OF
GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT IS GRANTED
 
Legal Standard
 
CCP section 877.6(a)(1) provides that “[a]ny
party to an action wherein it is alleged that two or more parties are joint
tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract debt shall be entitled to a hearing on
the issue of the good faith of a settlement entered into by the plaintiff . . .
and one or more alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors . . . .”¿ (Code. Civ. Proc., § 877.6(a)(1).) “A determination by the court that the settlement
was made in good faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from
any further claims against the settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable
comparative contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based on
comparative negligence or comparative fault.” (Id., § 877.6(c).)¿Although a determination that a settlement was in good faith does
not discharge any other party from liability, “it shall reduce the claims against the others
in the amount stipulated” by the settlement.¿(Id.,
§ 877(a).)
 
Factors to consider in determining if a
settlement was made in good faith include “a rough approximation of plaintiffs’
total recovery and the settlor’s proportionate liability, the amount paid in
settlement, the allocation of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs, and a
recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement than he would if he
were found liable after a trial.”¿(Tech-Bilt,
Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499.)¿“Other relevant considerations include the financial conditions and
insurance policy limits of settling defendants, as well as the existence of
collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of
nonsettling defendants.” (Id.)
 
The evaluation of whether a settlement was
made in good faith is required to “be made on the basis of information
available at the time of settlement.”¿(Tech-Bilt,
Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499.)¿ “[A] court not only looks at the alleged
tortfeasor’s potential liability to the plaintiff, but it
must also consider the culpability of the tortfeasor vis-à-vis other parties alleged to be responsible
for the same injury.”¿(TSI
Seismic Tenant Space, Inc. v. Superior Court (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 159,
166.)¿ “Potential liability for indemnity to a nonsettling defendant is an
important consideration for the trial court in determining whether to approve a
settlement by an alleged tortfeasor.”¿(Id.)
 
“The party asserting the lack of good faith
shall have the burden of proof on that issue.”
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 877.6(d).)¿The party
asserting the lack of good faith can establish that the proposed settlement was
not a settlement made in good faith by showing the settlement is so far “out of
the ballpark” in relation to the Tech-Bilt factors as to be inconsistent
with the equitable objectives of the statute.¿(Tech-Bilt, Inc., supra, 38 Cal.3d at 499-500.)
 
Unopposed Motion
 
An unopposed motion for determination of good
faith of settlement need not contain a full and complete discussion of the Tech-Bilt
factors (Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38
Cal.3d 488) by declaration or affidavit; rather, a bare bones motion setting
forth the grounds of good faith and a declaration containing a brief background
of the case is sufficient.¿(City
of Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261.)¿  
  
Analysis and Conclusion
 
This case arises
out of Plaintiff Marie Dekermenji allegedly tripping and falling on May 26,
2021, on the public sidewalk owned and maintained by Defendant City of
Glendale, which is adjacent to the residential property owned by Defendants
Andre Aghayani and Blandin Aghayani (Aghayani Defendants). Plaintiff alleges
injury to her wrist and elbow. Defendants contend that the displacement in
question was less than an inch in height. The parties attended mediation on
June 4, 2024, and Plaintiff and the Aghayani Defendants accepted the mediator’s
proposal and entered into a settlement in the amount of $25,000.00. Aghayani
Defendants now move the Court for a determination of good faith settlement.
The present
motion is unopposed, and there are no filings objecting to the settlement at
issue. The motion demonstrates that the settlement agreement was reached in
good faith during mediation. It also contains a brief background of the case.
The moving party has made a sufficient showing. Thus, Settling Defendants’
Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement is GRANTED. 
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.