 Case Number:  22STCV21594    Hearing Date:   July 15, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION AND REQUEST FOR
SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 7/15/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV21594 MAHER CHAMMAE vs
ABRAM TAVERA 
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Responding Party: Defendant The Estate of
Abram Tavera
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: THE COURT WILL HEAR FROM THE PARTIES
 
On January 8, 2024,
Plaintiff served a Notice of Deposition of the Person Most Knowledgeable
(“PMK”) and Document Production Requests on Defendant. (Sarkesians Decl., ¶ 2.)
On January 17, 2024, Defendant objected to Plaintiff’s Notice of Deposition because
it was unilaterally set. (Id., ¶ 3.) On January 24, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel
emailed defense counsel requesting alterative dates for said deposition. (Id.,
¶ 4.) On January 26, 2024, defense counsel emailed Plaintiff’s counsel stating
that counsel cannot comply with the notice of deposition as “no one [] fits the
categories” provided. On April 18, 2024, Plaintiff moved the court to compel
the deposition of the Estate of Abraham Tavera, which Plaintiff contends was
added as a Doe defendant.  (It appears, however,
that no judicial officer approved the amendment seeking to name the Estate in
place of a Doe defendant.)  
In opposition,
Defendant objects to the deposition on the ground that the date was
unilaterally selected by Plaintiff’s counsel. Further, Defendant contends that
there is no such entity as “The Estate of Abraham Tavera” and that there is no
PMK for a non-existent entity.
On May 14, 2024,
Department 31 heard the Parties’ arguments and issued a tentative order stating
that even in instances where an entity is not in existence for purposes of
producing a person most knowledgeable or qualified, a court may direct an
entity to elect or appoint an individual who can act as a person most qualified
or knowledgeable for purposes of a deposition. (Melendrez v. Superior Court (2013)
215 Cal.App.4th 1343, 1347.) An estate cannot speak for itself, nor can counsel
represent a client who is dead. There would necessarily need to be an appointed
personal representative on behalf of Decedent. It would appear to this Court
that Plaintiff would therefore be entitled to take the deposition of Decedent’s
designated personal representative and/or successor-in-interest.
Given that this case
was only recently transferred to Department 27, the newly assigned judicial
officer is unaware of any discussions that may have previously been held
regarding a substitution for Decedent as a party to this action. No filing has
been submitted by either party since the Court heard from the parties and
issued its minute order on May 14, 2024. This Court agrees with Department 31’s
tentative decision from May 14, 2024, that the deposition should be held once a
personal representative is appointed on behalf of Decedent. Accordingly, this
Court will hear from the parties on the status of the substitution or
appointment of a personal representative.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.