 Case Number:  2OSTCV16448    Hearing Date:   July 15, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO VACATE
Hearing Date: 7/15/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 20STCV16448 GUSTAVO JIMENEZ
vs EDER FLORES et al.
Moving Party: Plaintiff 
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO VACATE
IS DENIED
 
This action stems from
an incident that occurred on May 23, 2018. On April 30, 2020, Plaintiff filed
the present case. On December 4, 2023, counsel for Plaintiff, Daniel Moossai,
failed to appear for an Order to Show Cause Re: Dismissal. Plaintiff’s counsel
alleges that he was unable to attend the hearing due to a calendaring error,
and as a result of his non-appearance, the case was dismissed. Plaintiff now
moves the Court to vacate its dismissal.
The Court did not
dismiss the present case due to Daniel Moossai’s non-appearance on December 4,
2023. Rather, on December 4, 2023, the Court issued a minute order stating that
“There are no appearances made by or for any party this date. There is no
default judgment filed on this date. On the Court's own motion, the Order to
Show Cause Re: Dismissal for Failure to Enter Default/Default Judgment
scheduled for 12/04/2023 is continued to 01/24/2024 at 08:30 AM in Department
27 at Spring Street Courthouse. If there are no appearances and no default
judgment filed by the next hearing date, the Court may dismiss this matter
pursuant to CCP § 581(g) and CCP § 583.410; Calif. Rules of Court, rule
3.110(h) and/or impose sanctions upon counsel for Plaintiff.”
Plaintiff’s counsel was
notified of this ruling, and a certificate of mailing was filed on December 5,
2023. On January 24, 2024, Plaintiff did not appear for the continued Order to
Show Cause Re: Dismissal for Failure to Enter Default/Default Judgment. The
Court issued a minute order stating: "There are no appearances made by or
for any party this date. There is no default judgment filed on this date. The
Court orders the entire case dismissed without prejudice. This dismissal is
pursuant to CCP § 581(g) and CCP § 583.410."
Although Plaintiff’s
counsel filed the present motion within six months of the dismissal of this
action and submitted a declaration attesting to his mistake, the declaration
from Plaintiff’s counsel and his paralegal only addresses his non-appearance on
December 4, 2023. It is silent on why counsel did not appear at the hearing on
January 24, 2024. The Court did not dismiss the present case because of
counsel’s non-appearance on December 4, 2023. In fact, the Court provided
counsel an opportunity to prevent the dismissal by filing a default judgment
and appearing at the hearing on January 24, 2024. However, counsel failed to do
so, and the declarations did not demonstrate that counsel’s failure to appear
on January 24 was due to mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.
Therefore, the Court does not find that the case was dismissed as a result of
the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, as claimed in
counsel’s declaration.
Furthermore, this case
was dismissed pursuant to CCP § 583.410 due to Plaintiff’s lack of prosecution.
The case was filed on April 30, 2020, and Plaintiff has failed to obtain a
default judgment for approximately four years. Counsel’s non-appearance is one
factor that contributed to the dismissal of the case, but the primary reason is
that Plaintiff failed to provide a compliant default judgment workup in
approximately four years. The dismissal was not due to a one-time mistake, but
rather due to counsel’s inability to file a proper write-up over an extended
period of time. Additionally, CCP § 473(b) requires “application for this
relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed
to be filed therein; otherwise, the application shall not be granted.”
Plaintiff did not attach a copy of a proposed default judgment workup to the
moving papers.
Based on the foregoing
analysis, the Court denies the motion to vacate. 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.