  Case Number:  20STCV49589    Hearing Date:   July 15, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR SANCTIONS 
Hearing Date: 7/15/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 20STCV49589 FATEMEH AZIMA vs
ROLLING HILLS PLAZA, LLC, et al.
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Responding Party: Defendant AMC and Rolling
Hills Plaza
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION FOR SANCTIONS IS GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED IN PART
 
On August 28, 2023, the
Court granted Plaintiff’s motion to compel further and ordered Defendants to
provide verified further supplemental responses to Plaintiff's first set of
discovery. On October 2, 2023, Defendant complied with the Court’s order by providing
further supplemental responses but failed to provide verifications for the
following:
·       
Second Supplemental Responses to Request
for Production of Documents, Set 1
·       
Second Supplemental Responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set 1
·       
Third Supplemental Responses to Form
Interrogatories, Set 1
Plaintiff further
alleges that monetary sanctions of $860 pursuant to the Court’s August 28, 2023
order and $2,520 pursuant to the Court’s December 19, 2023 discovery order
remain unpaid. Plaintiff now moves the Court for terminating sanctions, issue
sanctions, evidentiary sanctions, and additional monetary sanctions.
On July 3, 2024,
Defendant filed a declaration stating that a check for the outstanding monetary
sanctions, $3,380.00, was sent via overnight mail to Plaintiff’s counsel on
June 26, 2024, and that the outstanding verifications to Plaintiff’s first set
of discovery responses had been provided.
On July 11, Plaintiff
filed a declaration acknowledging that “verified supplemental responses to
Plaintiff’s First Set of Discovery Requests” were finally served. (July 11
declaration ¶ 4.)
The Court does not find
evidentiary, issue, or terminating sanctions appropriate in this instance as
the Civil Discovery Act provides for an escalating and “incremental approach to
discovery sanctions, starting with monetary sanctions and ending with the
ultimate sanction of termination.” (Lopez v. Watchtower Bible & Tract
Society of New York, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 566, 604.) Discovery
sanctions should be appropriate to and commensurate with the misconduct, and
they “should not exceed that which is required to protect the interests of the
party entitled to but denied discovery.” (Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc.
(2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992.)
Defendant’s counsel has
provided the verifications at issue and paid the outstanding discovery
sanctions. It does not seem that less severe sanctions would not produce
compliance with the discovery rules. (Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez
(2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 377, 390.)
Having said that,
Plaintiff has requested verifications and discovery sanctions numerous times
prior to the filing of the present motion, and Defendant provided verifications
and paid discovery sanctions only after the present motion was filed. The Court
finds it appropriate to impose monetary sanctions to compensate Plaintiff for
having to expend attorney’s fees to bring the present motion. Consequently, the
Court sanctions Defendant in the amount of $2,000. Defendant and its counsel
are ORDERED, jointly and severally, to pay sanctions of $2,000 to Plaintiff
within 30 days of today’s date.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.