  Case Number:  22LBCV00852    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2023    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Marlene Canas filed this action against Defendants, John Canas,
Bank of America, Recon Trust Company, and Evelyn Marie Canas for quiet title,
cancellation of instrument, declaratory relief, and injunctive relief.  The crux of the complaint is that (a) in
2002, Plaintiff was gifted the subject property by her grandmother, and it was
to be in her name only; however, the grant deed mistakenly reads “John Canas
and Marlene Canas, Husband and Wife as Joint Tenants.”  Subsequently, in 2005, a grant deed was
recorded that transfers Plaintiff’s interest in the subject property entirely
to Defendant; Plaintiff contends the signature on the deed is a forgery, and she
only discovered the forgery this year.  Evelyn
Marie Canas is John Canas’s current spouse, and Bank of America holds the
mortgage on the subject property.  
 
2.    
Demurrer
a.     Procedural History
The Court was originally scheduled to hear this demurrer on 8/10/23.  The Court issued a tentative ruling
sustaining the demurrer without leave to amend in light of Plaintiff’s failure to
file opposition to the demurrer.  
 
Plaintiff appeared at the hearing and indicated she had not received the moving
papers from her former attorney, who had withdrawn from representation.  She sought a continuance of the hearing to permit
her to file opposition papers.  The Court
granted the continuance and rescheduled the hearing for 9/19/23.
 
Plaintiff filed timely opposition papers, per the order, on 8/31/23.  Her opposition, however, abruptly cut off on
page 8.  The Court therefore continued the
hearing on the demurrer to 11/07/23 to permit Plaintiff to file a full copy of
her brief and to permit Defendant to respond. 

 
b.    
Initial
Note re: Opposition
Plaintiff’s opposition, filed on 9/25/23, is 24 pages long (commencing on
page 4 and concluding on page 27 of the document), in violation of CRC
3.1113(d), which prohibits memoranda in excess of 15 pages in response to a
demurrer.  Compounding the issue, the
opposition often meanders from one subject to another with incomplete sentences
and failures to complete thoughts and arguments.  The Court has done its best to read and
interpret the opposition despite these defects.
 
c.     Legal
Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to test
the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact,
regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true, however
improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no “speaking
demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], § 430.30 [as
to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be taken], and § 430.50(a)
[can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of action within].  Specifically, a demurrer may be brought per
CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action
asserted.  Per CCP §430.10(a) a demurrer
may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause
of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore,
demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the complaint is so bad
that the defendant cannot reasonably respond. 
CCP § 430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated by
reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the incorporated
exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given to a cause
of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if the facts
as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for relief. Special
demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP § 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP §430.41(a)(2).)
Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing
their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 
d.    
Meet
and Confer
Defense Counsel, Kelly Andrew Beall, declares the parties met and
conferred telephonically but were unable to resolve the issues raised by way of
the demurrer.  The meet and confer requirement
is therefore satisfied.  
 
e.    
Request
for Judicial Notice
Defendant, with its demurrer, requests judicial notice of the grant deeds
and deeds of trust relating to the subject property.  The RJN is granted.
 
f.     
Grounds
for Demurrer
Plaintiff’s complaint against Defendant alleges causes of action for quiet
title, cancellation of instrument, declaratory relief, and injunctive relief.  Defendant demurs to the complaint on four
grounds.  It contends the complaint is
barred by the statute of limitations and the doctrine of laches, is also barred
because BOA is a bona fide encumbrancer for value, and finally is barred
because Plaintiff failed to allege tender. 

 
g.    
Bona
Fide Encumbrancer for Value
Defendant’s first argument is that the causes of action for quiet title
and cancellation of instrument (as well as the companion causes of action for
declaratory and injunctive relief) asserted against it in the complaint are barred
because it is a bona fide encumbrancer for value.  Pursuant to First Fidelity Thrift & Loan
Association v. Alliance Bank (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1433, 1441, a bona
fide encumbrancer for value is one who takes or purchases a lien and parts with
something of value in consideration thereof; the encumbrancer acts in good
faith if it does so without knowledge or notice of competing liens on the
subject property.  
 
Plaintiff, in opposition to the demurrer, argues the doctrine does not apply
when the purchased lien was obtained by fraud and is therefore a nullity.  
 
The Court researched this issue and located Erickson v. Bohne (1955) 130
Cal.App.2d 553.  In that case, the Court
noted that a void transaction includes one where the person signing the deed is
induced to do so by fraudulent misrepresentations and believes she is merely
signing, in that example, a letter addressed to a third person.  It went on to hold, “A void deed passes no
title, and cannot be made the foundation of a good title even under the
equitable doctrine of bona fide purchase.” 
Id. at 556.  
 
Plaintiff herein alleges, at ¶16 of her complaint, that John Canas forged
her signature on the 2005 grant deed, which is the deed Bank of America
encumbered in 2015 (complaint, ¶17(d)).  Plaintiff
therefore alleges the deed was fraudulently obtained, such that, if her allegations
are proven true, the deed would be void and would not give rise to application of
the doctrine.  The demurrer on this
ground is therefore overruled.
 
h.    
Statute
of Limitations
Defendant’s second argument is that the statute of limitations bars the
action against it.  Defendant cites
Family Code §1102(d), which requires a spouse to bring a claim for cancellation
of instrument when one spouse records a deed on a property during the course of
the marriage within one year after the spouse does so.  Defendant correctly notes that the subject
deed was recorded in 2005.  The demurrer
on this ground is therefore also sustained. 

 
Plaintiff does not cite any authority applying §1102(d) to her claims of
fraud.  She cites Faison 25 N.Y.3d at
224-25 to support her claim that a forged deed is void ab initio and not
subject to a statute of limitations defense, but Faison is a New York case and
not binding in California, and also did not consider the issue of whether
§1102(d) acts as a bar to her claims.
 
The Court located and reviewed Byrd v. Blanton (1983) 149 Cal.App.3d 987,
992-993 in this regard.  Byrd considered
Family Code §5127, which was the predecessor statute to §1102.  The Byrd Court held:
While property standing of record in one spouse's name appears validly
alienable by that spouse alone, section 5127 requires the other spouse's
signature. The one year limitation period only protects bona fide transferees
with no knowledge of the marriage relation who have no reason to suspect
another signature is necessary.
 
We find the limitation in section 5127 is not a bar to Jewell's community
property claim. The property stood in the name of her husband alone and was
conveyed by him alone without her knowledge or consent to a donee who knew of
the marriage relation and the nonsigning spouse's lack of knowledge or consent.
 
Thus, it appears the issue is whether Plaintiff has alleged Bank of
America knew of her marriage and knew of her lack of knowledge or consent.  Plaintiff has not pled facts establishing
such knowledge.  The demurrer on this
ground is therefore sustained.  Because it
does not appear Plaintiff could amend if given leave to do so, leave to amend
is denied.
 
i.     
Laches
Defendant argues the complaint is barred by laches because it was filed
in 2022 and seeks to void grant deeds recorded in 2002 and 2005.  The application of laches is a fact-intensive
inquiry, and the Court is not inclined to decide this issue at the pleading stage.  The demurrer on this ground is overruled.
 
j.     
Tender
Finally, Defendant demurs to the complaint on the ground that Plaintiff failed
to allege tender.  Pursuant to Aguilar v.
Bocci (1974) 39 Cal.App.3d 475, 476, when alleging a claim against a secured
creditor, the borrower must plead that she has tendered all amounts due on the
loan.  Plaintiff does not address tender
in opposition to the demurrer.  The demurrer
is sustained without leave to amend on this ground also.
 
k.    
Conclusion
Defendant’s demurrer is sustained without leave to amend on the grounds
that it is barred by the statute of limitations and by the failure to allege
tender of all amounts due under the loan. 
Because these arguments are fatal to all causes of action, the complaint
against Bank of America is dismissed in its entirety.
 
3.     Case
Management Conference
The parties are reminded that there
is a CMC on calendar concurrently with the hearing on the above demurrer.  The Court asks the parties to make arrangements
to appear remotely at the CMC and hearing on the demurrer.
 