 Case Number:  21STCV32134    Hearing Date:   February 9, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
LIANA GABRIELYAN, et
  al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
BMW OF NORTH AMERICA,
  LLC, et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  21STCV32134
  Hearing Date:  February 9, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
     defendant bmw north america’s
  
     motion to stay proceedings 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On August 30, 2021, Plaintiffs Liana
Gabrielyan and Sona Simonyan filed this action against Defendants BMW of North
America, LLC and Finchey Corporation of California, asserting two causes of
action under the Song-Beverly Act. BMW of North America is the only remaining
Defendant. On February 28, 2022, this Court granted BMWNA’s motion to compel
arbitration. The parties thereafter initiated arbitration with JAMS, but subsequently
stipulated to return to court. 
            On December 22, 2023, Defendant BMWNA
filed a motion to stay the proceedings pending the California Supreme Court’s review
of the appellate decision in Rodriguez v. FCA US, LLC (2022) 77
Cal.App.5th 209. Defendant filed an amended motion on January 4, 2024.
Plaintiffs filed their opposition on January 29, 2024. Defendant filed its reply
on February 1, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
“Courts have inherent authority to control
their own calendars and dockets . . . .” (Walker v. Superior Court
(1991) 53 Cal.3d 257, 267.) This includes “the inherent power to stay proceedings
in the interests of justice and to promote judicial efficiency.” (Freiberg v.
City of Mission Viejo (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1484, 1489.) “The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance.” (Cal. Rules of Ct., Rule 3.1332(c).)
DISCUSSION
            In
Rodriguez, the Court of Appeal affirmed summary judgment in favor of FCA on
claims brought under the Song-Beverly Act, holding that the Act’s
refund-or-replace provision, which applies to a “new motor vehicle,” only
applies to vehicles that have not previously been sold. (Rodriguez, supra, 77
Cal.App.5th at p. 209.) This may include “previously driven but not previously
sold vehicles, such as a demonstrator or loaner, where the warranty was issued
with the sale.” (Ibid.) But the court held that the provision does not apply to “previously
owned vehicles with a balance remaining on the manufacturer's express warranty.”
(Ibid.) The vehicle
in Rodriguez was not covered under the definition of “new motor vehicle” because it
was purchased from a used car dealership and had at least one prior consumer
owner.  
            The
plaintiffs in Rodriguez had argued that a “new motor vehicle” includes any vehicle sold with a
balance remaining on the warranty because the definition includes “other motor
vehicle sold with a manufacturer's new car warranty.” (Rodriguez, supra, 77
Cal.App.5th at pp. 219-20.) The court rejected this construction based on the context
of the entire statute. (Ibid.) Specifically, the Act defines “new motor vehicle” to include “a
dealer-owned vehicle and demonstrator,” which is a narrow class of vehicles that
have been “used” in the literal sense but are nonetheless treated as new
because they are sold with the same manufacturer’s warranty that accompanies
new cars. (Id. at p. 220.) The court held that the catchall phrase “other motor
vehicle sold with a manufacturer's new car warranty” similarly refers to “vehicles
that have never been previously sold to a consumer and come with full express
warranties.” (Ibid.) 
            Based
on the legal question presented in Rodriguez, the Supreme Court’s decision will determine the scope of the phrase “other
motor vehicle sold with a manufacturer's new car warranty,” specifically,
whether it includes a used vehicle sold with a balance on the warranty. There
is no dispute, however, that a “new motor vehicle” includes “a dealer-owned
vehicle and demonstrator,” because that is simply the plain language of the
Act. (Civ. Code, § 1793.22(e)(2).) In other words, “new motor vehicle”
indisputably covers a dealer-owned vehicle that may have seen some usage prior
to being sold to a consumer for the first time but is nonetheless sold with a
traditional (full) new car warranty. 
            Defendant
argues that a stay is warranted pending the Supreme Court’s decision because Plaintiffs
here must similarly rely on the broader interpretation of “new motor vehicle”
in order to succeed. Specifically, Defendant points out that the subject
vehicle was sold with 3,201 miles on it, and the complaint and lease both refer
to the vehicle as “used.” (Compl. ¶ 11; Layva Decl., Ex. A.) Defendant argues
that there are no facts alleged and no evidence presented showing that the
vehicle was a dealer-owned vehicle, demonstrator, or other essentially new
vehicle.         Plaintiffs argue that the
Supreme Court’s decision will have no bearing on this case because the subject
vehicle is indisputably a “new motor vehicle” regardless of whether the
definition includes a used vehicle with a balance on the warranty. Plaintiffs
contend that the vehicle, while previously used as a loaner, was leased
directly from a BMW dealership without any prior consumer owners. Plaintiffs
attach a Carfax report showing that the vehicle was sold for the first time on
March 16, 2019, the date alleged in the complaint. (Plntf.’s Ex. A.) The report
only lists one owner. (Ibid.) 
            The
factual issue regarding the vehicle’s usage history cannot be resolved on this
motion. There is also a question regarding the precise warranty the vehicle was
sold with. The parties have not stipulated on any of these facts, and neither
party presents definitive evidence regarding whether the vehicle was dealer-owned
at the time Plaintiffs leased it, or whether the vehicle came with a new manufacturer’s
warranty. The fact that Plaintiffs and the lease refer to the vehicle as “used”
is not dispositive because the Act covers vehicles “used” by the dealer that nonetheless
come with a new car warranty. Defendant points to the dealership’s deposition testimony,
where the PMK stated that the vehicle was sold only with the 50,000-mile
manufacturer’s warranty that comes from the factory. This does not reveal
whether the vehicle was sold with the full new warranty or merely a balance. The
lease is similarly silent on the issue. The fact that the dealership did not
check a box for additional warranties does not mean the vehicle lacked a new manufacturer’s
warranty. 
These disputes
must be resolved at trial by the finder of fact, and there is no reason to wait
until the Supreme Court’s decision in Rodriguez before resolving them. The Supreme Court’s legal opinion regarding the scope of the Song-Beverly Act will not resolve
the factual dispute
about the status of the subject vehicle. Thus, there is no basis for a stay.     
CONCLUSION
            Defendant’s
motion to stay is DENIED. 