 Case Number:  23STCV05811    Hearing Date:   February 9, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
BFF CONSTRUCTION, INC.,
  et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
R&M BRO’S
  CONSTRUCTION INC., et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV05811
  Hearing Date:  February 9, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
demurrer to cross-complaint 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On March 15, 2023, Plaintiffs BFF
Construction, Inc. (BFF) and RB Realty Management, LLC (RB) filed this action
against Defendants R&M Bro’s Construction Inc. (R&M) and Miguel Duarte
Olmos (Duarte), alleging (1) breach of contract, (2) implied indemnity, (3)
negligence, (4) conversion, and (5) fraud. 
            The case involves a construction project
that took place in Ventura County. The property is owned by RB. BFF was the
general contractor on the project, and R&M was the subcontractor. Duarte owns
and operates R&M. The complaint alleges that R&M performed its work
negligently, causing multiple shutdowns and delays. BFF terminated R&M from
the project, and Duarte allegedly retaliated by vandalizing the property and
destroying or stealing certain materials. R&M also allegedly absconded with
money meant for paying BFF’s vendors. 
            On April 26, 2023, R&M and
Duarte filed a lawsuit in Ventura Superior Court (Case No. 2023CUBC008227).
R&M and Duarte filed the first amended complaint in that action on July 11,
2023 (R&M Complaint). The R&M Complaint was asserted against RB, BFF,
Arixa Enhanced Income Fund, Hudson Insurance Company, and Bahram Fata. The
R&M Complaint alleged that R&M was not paid for the work it performed on
the project and sought, among other things, to foreclose on a mechanics lien.
The R&M Complaint also alleged that Duarte suffered physical injuries while
working on the project. 
            R&M and Duarte thereafter filed a
motion to transfer this case to Ventura Superior Court. The Court denied this
motion on September 1, 2023. On November 28, 2023, R&M and Duarte filed a
cross-complaint in this Court, essentially mirroring the R&M Complaint that
was filed in Ventura, with a few added causes of action. 
On December 20, 2023, Hudson Insurance
Company filed a cross-complaint against R&M, Duarte, and BFF, asserting
declaratory relief and interpleader. 
            On January 2, 2024, BFF, RB, and
Bahram Fata (collectively, Cross-Defendants) filed the instant demurrer to the
cross-complaint of R&M and Duarte. Arixa Enhanced Income Fund filed a
joinder to the demurrer on January 9, 2024. R&M and Duarte filed their
opposition on January 29, 2024. Cross-Defendants filed their reply on February
2, 2024.    
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading
or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a).) A
demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the defects
appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to strike,
the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the party who
filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the motion to
strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached
through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.) The Court notes
that Cross-Defendants have complied with the meet and confer requirement. (See Ardalan
Decl.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Mechanic’s Lien
            Cross-Defendants argue that the
second and fourth causes of action for mechanic’s lien fail because the
cross-complaint does not allege compliance with notice requirements,
incorporates liens that are not properly verified, and does not allege that
R&M had proper licensure to perform grading services. Cross-Defendants also
argue that the lien was not timely recorded. 
            a. Notice
             “Except as otherwise provided by statute,
before recording a lien claim . . . a claimant shall give preliminary notice to
the following persons: (1) The owner or reputed owner. (2) The direct
contractor or reputed direct contractor to which the claimant provides work,
either directly or through one or more subcontractors. (3) The construction
lender or reputed construction lender, if any.” (Civ. Code, § 8200(a).) The preliminary
notice must comply with various requirements. (Id., §§ 8200(b), 8204(a).)
“In order to perfect a mechanic's lien, a preliminary notice must be given in
strict compliance with the statutory requirements. Where notice does not meet
those requirements a lien cannot attach to funds or property.” (IGA Aluminum
Products, Inc. v. Manufacturers Bank (1982) 130 Cal.App.3d 699, 705.) 
Cross-Defendants argue that R&M has
not alleged its compliance with the preliminary notice requirement. However, it
cannot be determined from the pleadings alone that R&M failed to notify
Cross-Defendants. This is a factual matter beyond the scope of a demurrer. For
example, in IGA, the lack of notice was established on summary judgment.
(IGA, supra, 130 Cal.App.3d at p. 701.) For pleading purposes, it may be
reasonably inferred that R&M provided adequate notice of the lien.  
b. Verification
“A claim of mechanics lien shall be a
written statement, signed and verified by the claimant . . . .” (Civ. Code, §
8416(a).) Cross-Defendants argue that the liens incorporated in the cross-complaint
as Exhibits 2 and 4 are not verified by the claimant, R&M. Instead, the
liens are verified by an attorney-in-fact based on information and belief. 
However, the authority cited by
Cross-Defendants does not support their position. The court in Sunset Lumber
Co. v. Smith (1928) 95 Cal.App. 307, 316 acknowledged that “the
verification to claims of lien . . . may be made by any person who knows
the facts.” Similarly, the court in Parke & Lacy Co. v. Inter Nos Oil
& Development Co.
(1905) 147 Cal. 490, 494 held that “the claim of lien may be verified by any
person who is possessed of sufficient knowledge upon the subject to make
the verification, and the particular relation that he bears to the claimant is
immaterial.” Cross-Defendants cite no authority suggesting that a claimant cannot
verify a lien through an agent or representative such as an attorney-in-fact. 
Here, the liens are verified by R&M’s
attorney-in-fact who attests to her knowledge of the contents as true. This is
sufficient at the pleading stage. Cross-Defendants cite no authority for the
proposition that a verification signed on information and belief is invalid as
a matter of law.  
 
 
c. Licensure
“[N]o person engaged in the business or
acting in the capacity of a contractor, may bring or maintain any action, or
recover in law or equity in any action, in any court of this state for the
collection of compensation for the performance of any act or contract where a
license is required by this chapter without alleging that they were a duly
licensed contractor at all times during the performance of that act or contract
. . . .” (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 7031(a).) 
Cross-Defendants argue that R&M improperly
seeks recovery for the performance of grading services, which require a “Class
A” license, whereas R&M only has a “Class B” license. (See Bus. & Prof.
Code, §§ 7055-7057; Cross-Compl. ¶¶ 1, 27-31.) A “Class B” license applies to “a
contractor whose principal contracting business is in connection with any
structure built, being built, or to be built, for the support, shelter, and
enclosure of persons, animals, chattels, or movable property of any kind . . .
.” (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 7057.) R&M alleges that the project involved
the construction of a luxury residence. (Cross-Compl. ¶ 13.) For pleading
purposes, this sufficiently establishes that R&M was engaged in “Class B”
activities, for which it was licensed.
A “Class A” contractor is one “whose
principal contracting business is in connection with fixed works requiring
specialized engineering knowledge and skill,” including in the subject of
grading. (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 7506.) But that does not mean that all
grading work necessarily involves specialized knowledge requiring a “Class A”
license. (See Pacific
Caisson & Shoring, Inc. v. Bernards Bros. Inc. (2011) 198
Cal.App.4th 681, 691 [“only class A licensee may engage in land leveling
and earthmoving, excavation, grading, and trenching when it demands
‘specialized engineering knowledge and skill’”].) In sum, R&M has sufficiently
alleged its licensure. 
d. Recordation
“A direct contractor may not enforce a
lien unless the contractor records a claim of lien after the contractor
completes the direct contract, and before the earlier of the following times: (a)
Ninety days after completion of the work of improvement. (b) Sixty days after
the owner records a notice of completion or cessation.” (Civ. Code, § 8412.) 
Cross-Defendants argue that R&M timely
recorded a lien within 90 days of work completion only in the Ventura action.
Cross-Defendants argue that since the Ventura action has been dismissed, that
lien has expired, and the new lien that R&M filed in relation to this case
is untimely. However, under Section 8412, the 90-day deadline does not begin to
run until the work has been completed, and the 60-day deadline does not begin
to run until the owner records a notice of completion. The cross-complaint does
not allege that either of these two events has occurred, and outside facts
cannot be considered on a demurrer. Therefore, for pleading purposes, R&M
has not missed either deadline, and the lien is timely.  
II.
Breach of Contract
            A demurrer for uncertainty applies “if
the pleading is so incomprehensible that a defendant cannot reasonably respond.”
(A.J. Fistes Corp. v. GDL Best Contractors, Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th
677, 695.) Usually, a complaint does not need to be a “model of clarity” to
survive a demurrer because most ambiguities can be clarified through discovery.
(Ibid.)
To establish
breach of contract, a plaintiff must show: (1) the contract existed, (2) the
plaintiff’s performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the
defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff. (Richman
v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.) A breach of contract can be
alleged by simply “plead[ing]
the legal effect of the contract rather than its precise language.” (Miles
v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 394, 402.)
            Cross-Defendants argue that the
first cause of action is uncertain because it is unclear what terms were
included in the subject agreement and how Cross-Defendants supposedly breached
those terms. However, the cross-complaint alleges that Cross-Defendants engaged
R&M to perform grading and earthwork services, that R&M began those
services, that Cross-Defendants agreed to pay for those services, and that
Cross-Defendants breached the agreement by failing to pay. (Cross-Compl. ¶¶ 27-30.)
This sufficiently establishes a breach of contract.  
III.
Open Book Account
            “A book account is defined . . . as
‘a detailed statement, kept in a book, in the nature of debit and credit,
arising out of contract or some fiduciary relation.’” (Joslin v. Gertz
(1957) 155 Cal.App.2d 62, 65-66, internal citations omitted.) “A book account
may furnish the basis for an action on a common count . . . when it contains a
statement of the debits and credits of the transactions involved completely
enough to supply evidence from which it can be reasonably determined what
amount is due to the claimant. A book account is described as ‘open’ when the
debtor has made some payment on the account, leaving a balance due.” (Interstate
Group Administrators, Inc. v. Cravens, Dargan & Co. (1985) 174
Cal.App.3d 700, 708, internal citations omitted.) To prevail on a claim for
open book account, the plaintiff must establish: (1) the plaintiff and
defendant had financial transactions with each other; (2) the plaintiff, in the
regular course of business, kept a written or electronic account of the debits
and credits involved in the transactions; (3) defendant owes plaintiff money on
the account; and (4) the amount owed. (CACI No. 372.)
            Cross-Defendants argue that the cross-complaint
fails to allege any statement of transactions or a precise amount owed. These
are factual issues not suited for demurrer. When the complaint is read as a
whole and interpreted liberally, it supports a reasonable inference that the parties
engaged in a financial transaction resulting in a balance owed. That R&M
may be uncertain of the precise amount at the pleading stage is not fatal to
its claim. A sum certain may be established through evidence. 
IV.
Account Stated
“An account stated is an agreement, based
on the prior transactions between the parties, that the items of the account
are true and that the balance struck is due and owing from one party to
another.” (Gleason v. Klamer (1980) 103 Cal.App.3d 782, 786-87.) To
establish an account stated, a plaintiff must prove: (1) defendant owed
plaintiff money from previous financial transactions; (2) the parties agreed, by
words or conduct, that the amount claimed is correct; (3) defendant, by words
or conduct, promised to pay the stated amount; (4) defendant has not paid the
amount; and (5) the amount owed. (CACI No. 373.)
Cross-Defendants reiterate their argument
that the claim fails to state a definite amount, instead claiming “at least”
$484,667.74. (See Cross-Compl. ¶ 67.) As discussed above, a sum certain may be
ascertained in discovery. R&M need not prove the amount owed at the
pleading stage. 
V.
Quantum Meruit
            Cross-Defendants’ only argument
against this claim is R&M’s purported lack of licensure. As discussed
above, R&M has adequately alleged its license. 
VI.
Alter Ego
            “To succeed on their alter ego
claim, plaintiffs must be able to show (1) such a unity of interest and
ownership between the corporation and its equitable owner that no separation
actually exists, and (2) an inequitable result if the acts in question are
treated as those of the corporation alone.” (Leek v. Cooper (2011) 194
Cal.App.4th 399, 417.) “Whether a party is liable under an alter ego theory is
a question of fact.” (Id. at p. 418.) 
            Here, the cross-complaint alleges sufficient
facts to support a reasonable inference of alter ego. (Cross-Compl. ¶¶ 6-7.) Similar
facts were found sufficient to survive demurrer in Rutherford Holdings, LLC
v. Plaza Del Rey (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 221, 235-36. Therefore, the cross-complaint
sufficiently pleads alter ego liability against Defendant Fata. 
CONCLUSION
            Cross-Defendants’ demurrer is
OVERRULED. 