  Case Number:  20STCV42553    Hearing Date:   February 9, 2024    Dept:  32      ALAN ELLIOTT, et al.,                         Plaintiffs,             v.   BARRY TYERMAN, et al.,                          Defendants.           Case No.:  20STCV42553   Hearing Date:  February 9, 2024        [TENTATIVE]    order RE: defendants’ motion to compel further responses                  BACKGROUND             On November 5, 2020, Plaintiffs Alan  Elliott, Amazing Grace Movie LLC, and Al’s Records and Tapes Inc. filed this  action against Defendants Barry Tyerman and Jackoway Austen Tyerman Wertheimer  Mandelbaum Morris Bernstein Trattner & Klein. Plaintiffs filed the operative  First Amended Complaint on January 12, 2021, asserting causes of action for (1)  trade libel/slander, (2) intentional and (3) negligent interference with prospective  economic relations, (4) interference with contractual relations, (5) unfair competition,  (6) intentional infliction of emotional distress, and (7) negligent  supervision. The FAC alleges the following pertinent facts.               The dispute centers around a movie  based on archival footage of Aretha Franklin’s performance of her album, Amazing  Grace. The footage was shot by director Sydney Pollack and owned by Warner Brothers.  Plaintiff Elliott obtained the rights to the footage and agreed with Warner  Bros. to produce a film based on the footage. Defendants represented Pollack  and then Pollack’s family after his death. While not initially claiming Pollack’s  rights in the film, Defendants subsequently realized the economic potential of  the film and sought compensation. When Plaintiff Elliott retained Defendants on  unrelated matters, Defendants exploited the opportunity to obtain more  information regarding the film. Plaintiffs’ efforts to sell the completed film  were undermined by Defendants’ unfounded assertion of Pollack’s rights in the  film. Defendants interfered with distribution of the film for their own  financial gain.              On May 3, 2021, the Court partially  granted Defendants’ anti-SLAPP motion, striking the fourth through seventh  causes of action. Defendants appealed the ruling, arguing that the first three  causes of action should have also been dismissed. On March 27, 2023, the Court  of Appeal issued a decision affirming this Court’s ruling. As a result,  Plaintiffs currently have three causes of action for trade libel/slander and  intentional/negligent interference with prospective economic advantage.              On December 22, 2023, Defendants  filed the instant motion to compel further responses to requests for production  and special interrogatories. Plaintiffs filed their opposition on January 29,  2024. Defendants filed their reply on February 2, 2024. LEGAL STANDARD Upon receiving responses to its discovery requests,  the propounding party may move for an order compelling further responses if the  responses are incomplete or evasive, or objections are without merit or too  general. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(a), 2031.310(a), 2033.290(a).) This  motion must be made within 45 days of receipt of the responses. (Id., §§  2030.300(c), 2031.310(c), 2033.290(c).)  MEET AND CONFER A motion to compel further must be  accompanied by a meet and confer declaration demonstrating an attempt to  resolve the matter informally. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(b)(1), 2031.310(b),  2033.290(b).) The Court finds that Defendants have satisfied the meet and  confer requirement. (See Frid Decl. ¶¶ 8-9, Ex. E, F.)    DISCUSSION Plaintiffs argue that the motion was not  timely filed. Plaintiffs served their responses on July 7, 2023. (Frid Decl. ¶¶  5-6.) Defendants did not file this motion until December 22, 2023, beyond the  45-day limit. However, parties may “enter into an agreement to extend the time  for the completion of discovery proceedings or for the hearing of motions  concerning discovery.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.060.) “This agreement may be  informal, but it shall be confirmed in a writing that specifies the extended  date.” (Ibid.)  Here, the parties agreed to extend the  motion deadline until after Plaintiffs have served supplemental responses. This  agreement was confirmed in writing on multiple occasions. (See Frid Decl., Ex.  F at p. 515 [“We will of course extend any motion to file a motion to compel  for two additional weeks until you receive our responses”]; p. 538 [“We agreed  that both sides motions to compel discovery would be extended until after we  receive the supplemental responses”]; p. 541 [“We agreed that Defendants’  motion to compel deadline will be two weeks after Plaintiffs serve their  amended/supplemental responses”].)  Although the correspondence does not identify  a precise date, it sufficiently “specifies the extended date” by clearly  indicating that the date is two weeks after service of supplemental responses. Plaintiffs  have not served supplemental responses, which is the subject of this motion. Having  agreed to extend the motion deadline to after their service of supplemental  responses, Plaintiffs cannot then delay serving those responses indefinitely, only  to counter a motion to compel by arguing that Defendants missed the filing  deadline. The Court finds that the parties agreed to extend the motion deadline.  Therefore, the motion is timely.   Plaintiffs present no argument regarding  the substance of the discovery requests at issue. Defendants have filed a  separate statement explaining why further responses are warranted, to which  Plaintiffs have not filed a response. Therefore, a court order is needed to  ensure that Plaintiffs finally provide supplemental responses.  CONCLUSION             Defendants’  motion to compel further responses is GRANTED. Plaintiffs shall serve supplemental  responses to the subject discovery within 20 days of this order. Sanctions are  denied as the parties acted with substantial justification.


 
ALAN ELLIOTT, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
BARRY TYERMAN, et al., 
                        Defendants.



 
  Case No.:  20STCV42553
  Hearing Date:  February 9, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ motion to compel further
  production 




 


 




BACKGROUND

            On November 5, 2020, Plaintiffs Alan
Elliott, Amazing Grace Movie LLC, and Al’s Records and Tapes Inc. filed this
action against Defendants Barry Tyerman and Jackoway Austen Tyerman Wertheimer
Mandelbaum Morris Bernstein Trattner & Klein. Plaintiffs filed the operative
First Amended Complaint on January 12, 2021, asserting causes of action for (1)
trade libel/slander, (2) intentional and (3) negligent interference with prospective
economic relations, (4) interference with contractual relations, (5) unfair competition,
(6) intentional infliction of emotional distress, and (7) negligent
supervision. The FAC alleges the following pertinent facts.  

            The dispute centers around a movie
based on archival footage of Aretha Franklin’s performance of her album, Amazing
Grace. The footage was shot by director Sydney Pollack and owned by Warner Brothers.
Plaintiff Elliott obtained the rights to the footage and agreed with Warner
Bros. to produce a film based on the footage. Defendants represented Pollack
and then Pollack’s family after his death. While not initially claiming Pollack’s
rights in the film, Defendants subsequently realized the economic potential of
the film and sought compensation. When Plaintiff Elliott retained Defendants on
unrelated matters, Defendants exploited the opportunity to obtain more
information regarding the film. Plaintiffs’ efforts to sell the completed film
were undermined by Defendants’ unfounded assertion of Pollack’s rights in the
film. Defendants interfered with distribution of the film for their own
financial gain. 

            On May 3, 2021, the Court partially
granted Defendants’ anti-SLAPP motion, striking the fourth through seventh
causes of action. Defendants appealed the ruling, arguing that the first three
causes of action should have also been dismissed. On March 27, 2023, the Court
of Appeal issued a decision affirming this Court’s ruling. As a result,
Plaintiffs currently have three causes of action for trade libel/slander and
intentional/negligent interference with prospective economic advantage. 

            On December 4, 2023, Defendants
filed the instant motion to compel Plaintiffs to: (i) reproduce their document
production in a code-compliant, usable format; (ii) produce all documents that
they agreed to produce; and (iii) provide a code-compliant privilege log.
Plaintiffs filed their opposition on January 29, 2024. Defendants filed their
reply on February 2, 2024. 

DISCUSSION

I.
Production Format

            “If a demand for production does not
specify a form or forms for producing a type of electronically stored
information, the responding party shall produce the information in the form or
forms in which it is ordinarily maintained or in a form that is reasonably
usable.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.280(d)(1).) 

            Defendants contend that Plaintiffs
failed to produce documents in their original form, instead piecing together
select portions of correspondence with post hoc alterations. These
alterations include highlights, added commentary, and formatting changes. (Mtn.
17:7-19; Frid Decl., Ex. M.) Defendants further contend that Plaintiffs omitted
portions of relevant communications instead of producing the entire email
chains. (Mtn. 17:20-18:19; Frid Decl., Ex. M, G.) 

            Plaintiffs argue that Elliott
produced the emails in the format that he had them. In particular, the emails
were stored on Elliott’s Mac computer, not a PC. (Gallagher Decl., Ex. A
(Elliott Decl.) ¶¶ 8-9.) Plaintiffs contend this is why the emails are in a different
format than Defendants expected. However, Plaintiffs do not dispute the post
hoc alterations, including highlights, commentary, and omissions.
Plaintiffs do not contend that the original emails contained these alterations.
Defendants are entitled to unaltered documents in their original form.
Therefore, Plaintiff shall produce the communications without alteration, in
the format that he has them.    

II.
Statements of Compliance

            “If a party filing a response to a
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling . . . thereafter fails to
permit the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling in accordance with that
party’s statement of compliance, the demanding party may move for an order
compelling compliance.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.320(a).) “No time limit is
placed on such a motion.” (Standon Co. v. Superior Court (1990) 225
Cal.App.3d 898, 903.) 

            Defendants argue that Plaintiffs
have failed to produce documents responsive to RFP Nos. 4-6, 8, 10-13, 21, 22,
29, 31, and 49, despite stating in their responses that they would do so. (Mtn.
19:2-21; Frid Decl., Ex. A-C, P.) These include documents that Plaintiff
Elliott testified he produced to his counsel, confirming their existence. Plaintiffs
argue that they complied by producing a log identifying which documents were
responsive to which requests. (See Gallagher Decl., Ex. 3.) However, this log addresses
requests other than the ones at issue. Plaintiffs do not contend that they
produced documents responsive to RFP Nos. 4-6, 8, 10-13, 21, 22, 29, 31, and 49.
If Plaintiffs responded with statements of compliance to these requests, they
must produce documents accordingly. 

III.
Privilege Log

            “If an objection is based on a claim
of privilege or a claim that the information sought is protected work product,
the response shall provide sufficient factual information for other parties to
evaluate the merits of that claim, including, if necessary, a privilege log.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.240(c)(1).) 

            Defendants argue that the privilege
log provided by Plaintiffs fails to identify any document by exhibit or page
number, and provides no information on the general subject matter of the
communications. (Mtn. 20:21-27; Frid Decl., Ex. J.) However, Plaintiffs’ log sufficiently
identifies the redacted communications by date, author, and recipient. (See
Gallagher Decl., Ex. 5.) Additionally, Plaintiffs’ log generally describes the
subject matter of the redacted communications. (Ibid.) The log provides
sufficient information to evaluate the privilege. Therefore, Plaintiffs are not
required to amend the existing privilege log. 

CONCLUSION

            Defendants’ motion to compel
production is GRANTED in part. Plaintiffs shall produce unaltered
communications, and documents responsive to RFP Nos. 4-6, 8, 10-13, 21, 22, 29,
31, and 49. Sanctions are denied as the parties acted with substantial
justification. 

             

 