 Case Number:  23STCV21265    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendants
Pinnacle Estate Properties, Inc.’s and
Kenneth Winter’s Demurrers and Motions to Strike Portions of Plaintiffs’
Complaint
Demurrers
Defendants Pinnacle Estate Properties, Inc.
(Pinnacle) and Kenneth Winter separately demur to plaintiffs Jacob Ongwiseth
and Nipith Ongwiseth’s fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action.
Summary of Allegations
            This
action arises from plaintiffs’ lease of a house in Malibu.  Pinnacle and its agent and employee Winter
served as the property owners’ listing agent. 
(Comp., ¶¶ 4, 9.)  The property’s
listing on a real estate website “described the Property as having a ‘gourmet kitchen
[] fully quipped with Viking appliances,’ ‘[a] flat entertainer’s yard’, and a ‘luxurious
ensuite bathroom,’ among other things.  It
listed a dishwasher, dryer, range, oven, refrigerator and washer as included
appliances.”  (¶ 8.)  When plaintiffs toured the property, “Winter
represented to the Plaintiffs that” numerous problems at the property “would
all be repaired prior to move-in.”  (¶
12.)  Plaintiffs allege these “Listing
Misrepresentations” and “Tour Misrepresentations”, respectively, were
false.  (¶¶ 18, 54, 62, 69.)
            Plaintiffs
agreed to lease the property for one year. 
(Comp., ¶¶ 13, 17.)  They allege
they “would not have entered into the Lease if Defendants had not made these misrepresentations”
(¶ 22) or if defendants had “disclosed the existence of these defects prior to
its execution” (¶ 23).  “After enduring
months of” various problems at the house (¶ 24), plaintiffs vacated it and
incurred at least $17,000 in relocation expenses (¶ 28).      
4th Cause of
Action: Negligent Misrepresentation
            Plaintiffs allege sufficient facts
for this cause of action.  “The elements
of negligent misrepresentation are (1) the misrepresentation of a past or
existing material fact, (2) without reasonable ground for believing it to be
true, (3) with intent to induce another's reliance on the fact misrepresented,
(4) justifiable reliance on the misrepresentation, and (5) resulting
damage.”  (Apollo Capital Fund, LLC v.
Roth Capital Partners, LLC (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 226, 243.)  “In contrast to fraud, negligent
misrepresentation does not require knowledge of falsity.”  (Ibid.)
            Plaintiffs allege the ultimate facts
required for each element.  First, they allege
Pinnacle, through its agent and employee Winter, misrepresented facts about the
property’s condition, including its appliances (Comp., ¶ 8) and that numerous
problems “would all be repaired prior to move-in” (¶ 12).  
Second, they allege Pinnacle and Winter “knew or
should have known that these representations and omissions were false when they
were made, or acted with reckless disregard for the accuracy of these representations
when they were made.”  (¶ 55.)  
Third, plaintiffs allege defendants intended them to
rely on their misrepresentations.  (¶
72.)  “[T]he only intent by a defendant
necessary to prove a case of fraud is the intent to induce reliance.  Moreover,
liability is affixed not only where the plaintiff's reliance is intended by
the defendant but also where it is reasonably expected to
occur.”  (Lovejoy v. AT&T Corp. (2001)
92 Cal.App.4th 85, 93.)  The factual
allegations permit a reasonable inference that defendants intended to induce
plaintiffs’ reliance on their alleged misrepresentations.  
Fourth, plaintiffs allege they justifiably relied on
defendants’ misrepresentations.  (¶ 57.)  “[T]he reasonableness of the reliance is
ordinarily a question of fact. 
[Citations.]  However, whether a
party’s reliance was justified may be decided as a matter of law if reasonable
minds can come to only one conclusion based on the facts.”  (Guido v. Koopman (1991) 1
Cal.App.4th 837, 843.)  A reasonable
factfinder could conclude plaintiffs justifiably relied on representations
about the property made by the property’s listing agent.
Finally, plaintiffs allege they suffered resulting
damages.  They allege they would not have
entered the lease if they had known the truth. 
(¶¶ 22-23.)  They vacated the
property after less than six months of their one-year lease and incurred
$17,000 in relocation expenses.  (¶ 28.)
5th & 6th
Causes of Action: Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment & Misrepresentation
            Plaintiffs allege sufficient facts
for these causes of action.  Fraudulent
inducement of a contract requires: (1) the defendant “misrepresented or
concealed a material fact … , (2) knowledge of the falsity of the fact or lack
of reasonable grounds for believing it to be true, (3) an intent to induce
reliance, (4) justifiable reliance by the [plaintiff], and (5) resulting
damages.”  (Garamendi v. Golden Eagle
Ins. Co. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 452, 470.) 

The allegations
described above suffice to constitute a cause of action for fraudulent
inducement of contract by concealment or by misrepresentation.  The complaint further alleges defendants
“intentionally failed to disclose certain facts regarding the habitability,
features, and quality of the Property” (¶ 62), “were aware of these material
facts and intentionally concealed them” (¶ 63), and “knew that the
representations were false when they made them, or made them recklessly and
without regard for their truth” (¶ 71).  
Defendants argue plaintiffs do not
meet the heightened standard for pleading fraud.  “[F]raud must be pled specifically.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)  “ ‘This particularity requirement necessitates
pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by
what means the representations were tendered.’ ”  (Ibid.)  “A plaintiff’s burden in asserting a fraud
claim against a corporate employer is even greater.  In such a case, the plaintiff must ‘allege
the names of the persons who made the allegedly fraudulent representations,
their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when
it was said or written.’ ”  (Ibid.)  
Plaintiffs allege the
required details.  The “Listing
Misrepresentations” were made on “a listing for the Property on [a] real estate
website” in March 2023.  (¶ 8.)  The tour occurred “[s]hortly thereafter” (¶ 10),
and the “Tour Representations” were made during that tour (¶ 12).  Pinnacle, through agent and employee Winter,
who is a “duly licensed real estate agent” (¶ 4.b), made the representations to
plaintiffs.            
Motion to Strike
Defendants Pinnacle Estate Properties, Inc.
and Kenneth Winter separately move to
strike portions of plaintiffs’ complaint regarding punitive damages.  Courts
may strike such allegations where the facts alleged “do not rise to the level
of malice, oppression or fraud necessary” to recover punitive damages under
Civil Code section 3294.  (Turman v.
Turning Point of Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53,
64.)  For punitive damages, “ ‘[f]raud’
means means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a
material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the
defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or
otherwise causing injury.”  (Civ. Code, §
3294(b)(3).)  
Defendants rely on
the same arguments made in their demurrers. 
For the reasons discussed above, plaintiffs allege sufficient facts to
constitute causes of action for fraudulent inducement of contract by
concealment and by misrepresentation. 
The same factual allegations suffice for fraud under Civil Code section
3294.  
Disposition
Defendants Pinnacle Estate Properties, Inc.’s
and Kenneth Winter’s demurrers to plaintiffs’ complaint are overruled.  Defendants Pinnacle Estate Properties, Inc.’s
and Kenneth Winter’s motions to strike
portions of plaintiffs’ complaint are denied.  Defendants Pinnacle Estate Properties,
Inc. and Kenneth Winter shall answer the complaint within 15 days.