 Case Number:  23STCV23458    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendants
Gigi C’s Bikinis, LLC and Tina Caruso’s Motion to Compel Arbitration 
Defendants
Gigi C’s Bikinis, LLC and Tina Caruso move to compel arbitration of this action
by plaintiff Monique Ocegueda.  Plaintiff
argues the parties’ arbitration agreement is unconscionable and therefore
unenforceable.  
Unconscionability requires both procedural and substantive
unconscionability using a sliding scale. 
(Serafin v. Balco Properties Ltd., LLC (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th
165, 185.)  “Procedural unconscionability
focuses on the elements of oppression and surprise.”  (Id. at p. 177.)  “Substantive unconscionability focuses on the
actual terms of the agreement and evaluates whether they create overly harsh or
one-sided results.  (Ibid.,
internal quotes omitted.)  “Generally,
the burden is on the party opposing arbitration to show an arbitration
agreement is unconscionable.”  (Saheli
v. White Memorial Medical Center (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 308, 330.)
Procedural Unconscionability
Plaintiff shows some procedural unconscionability.  Procedural unconscionability occurs when the
stronger party drafts the contract and presents it to the weaker party on a
‘take it or leave it basis.’ ”  (Trivedi v. Curexo Technology Corp.
(2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 387, 393, disapproved on other grounds by Baltazar v. Forever 21, Inc. (2016) 62
Cal.4th 1237.)  “ ‘Arbitration contracts
imposed as a condition of employment are typically adhesive.’ ” (Davis v.
Kozak (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 897, 906.) 
“By itself, however, adhesion establishes only a ‘low’ degree of
procedural unconscionability.”  (Id.
at p. 907.)
The parties’ arbitration
agreement was an adhesion contract imposed as a condition of employment.  Plaintiff does not show any other
circumstances that make the agreement oppressive or surprising.  Even if included among 70 pages of documents,
the agreement is clearly labeled and in legible print.  It plainly states the result of agreeing to
its terms.  In capital letters, it
states, “Company and Employee understand that by using arbitration to resolve
disputes, they are giving up any right(s) they may have to a judge or jury
trial with regard to all issues concerning employment.”  (Bottiani Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 2.)
Substantive Unconscionability
In arguing the arbitration agreement is
substantively unconscionable, plaintiff relies in part on provisions in a
separate confidentiality agreement. 
(Scalia Decl., Ex. 2.)  An “Arbitration
Agreement and [a] Confidentiality Agreement should be read together” when they
‘were executed on the same day” and “were both separate aspects of a single
primary transaction—[plaintiff’s] hiring.” 
(Alberto v. Cambrian Homecare (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 482, 490 (Alberto).)  Defendant sent plaintiff both agreements and
required her to sign them as a condition of employment.  (Ocegueda Decl., ¶¶ 8-10.)  As in Alberto, “the two agreements
were part of a single transaction,” so “unconscionability in the
Confidentiality Agreement is relevant in determining whether the parties’
agreement to arbitrate was unconscionable.” 
(Alberto, supra, at p. 491.)
Plaintiff argues the agreement is substantively
unconscionable for four reasons.  
1. Provision for Injunctive Relief to Enforce
Confidentiality Agreement
First, plaintiff contends the agreement is not
mutual because it requires arbitration of claims generally brought by employees
but “allows Defendants direct access to the courts through the confidentiality
agreement to seek an injunction.”  (Opp.,
p. 9.)  “An agreement may be unfairly
one-sided if it compels arbitration of the claims more likely to be brought by
the weaker party but exempts from arbitration the types of claims that are more
likely to be brought by the stronger party.” 
(Fitz v. NCR Corp. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 702, 724.)  “[P]rovisions that allow employers to seek a
preliminary injunction outside of arbitration for breach of a confidentiality
agreement are not, by themselves, unconscionable, simply because they primarily
benefit employers.”  (Alberto, supra,
91 Cal.App.5th at p. 492.)  “But
additional provisions that waive the employer’s need to obtain a bond before
seeking an injunction, waive the employer’s need to show irreparable harm, and
require an employee to consent to an immediate injunction are
unconscionable.  They exceed the
legitimate ‘margin of safety’ for the employer and are not mutual.”  (Ibid.)  
The parties’ confidentiality agreement provides,  “Employee acknowledges and agrees that the
business of the Company is highly competitive, and that violation of any of the
covenants provided for in this Agreement would cause immediate, immeasurable,
and irreparable harm, loss and damage to the Company not adequately compensable
by a monetary award.  Accordingly, the
Employee agrees, without limiting any of the other remedies or damages
available to the Company, that any violation of said covenants, or any of them,
may be enjoined or restrained by any court of competent jurisdiction, and that
any temporary restraining order or emergency, preliminary or final injunctions
may be issued by any court of competent jurisdiction.”  (Scalia Decl., Ex. 2, § 7.)
This provision is substantively unconscionable,
though not to the same degree as the one in Alberto.  There, “the Confidentiality Agreement
required Alberto to consent to an ‘order of an immediate injunction, without
bond, from any court of competent jurisdiction, enjoining and restraining’
Alberto from disclosing confidential or proprietary information.”  (Alberto, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at p.
492.)  Here, the confidentiality
agreement purports to waive the employer’s need to show irreparable harm in
that it requires plaintiff to agree that a breach would “cause immediate,
immeasurable, and irreparable harm.”  (Scalia
Decl., Ex. 2, § 7.)  It does not,
however, provide for an “immediate” injunction and does not waive the
employer’s need to obtain a bond.
2. Attorney Fee Award to Party Who Successfully
Compels Arbitration 
Second, plaintiff argues the agreement is
unconscionable because it permits the employer to recover attorney fees
incurred in compelling arbitration.  The
agreement provides that, if either party files a lawsuit, an opposing party who
“successfully compels the Suit-Filing Party to arbitration … shall be entitled
to the reasonable attorneys’ fees incurred in enforcing this Agreement.”  (Bottiani Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 16.)  
This provision violates the FEHA because “a
prevailing defendant in a FEHA action can recover attorney fees only if the
action was frivolous, unreasonable, or groundless.”  (Ramirez v. Charter Communications, Inc.
(2022) 75 Cal.App.5th 365, 377, review granted June 1, 2022, S273802.)  This provision “as written is unenforceable
as being in violation of FEHA” and therefore must either be found
unconscionable (id. at pp. 378, 380-382) or must be modified by “incorporating
the FEHA attorney fee standard” (id. at p. 379 [disagreeing with that
approach used in Patterson v. Superior Court (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 473]).  The court finds this provision is
substantively unconscionable.  
3. PAGA Waiver
Third, plaintiff argues the agreement’s “ban on
‘representative’ PAGA claims is unlawful.” 
(Opp., p. 10.)  Plaintiff argues
the following provision is unconscionable: “The Parties hereby waive any
substantive or procedural rights they may have to participate or bring an
action on a class, collective, or other similar basis in court, arbitration or
otherwise.  By signing this Agreement, I
am agreeing to waive any substantive or procedural rights I may have to bring
or participate in an action on a class or collective basis.”  (Bottiani Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 9.)  
This provision is not unconscionable.  It does not purport to waive any right to
bring PAGA claims.  A PAGA action is a
“representative” action, not a “class or collective” action.  (Kim v. Reins International California,
Inc. (2020) 9 Cal.5th 73, 87 [“ ‘a representative action under PAGA is not
a class action’ ”].)  The arbitration
agreement expressly provides that representative PAGA actions are not subject
to arbitration.  It states, “The Parties
specifically agree that, except for representative claims arising under the
California Private Attorneys General Act of 2004 (‘PAGA’) (Labor Code § 2698,
et seq.), all claims under the California Labor Code … shall be subject to this
Agreement.”  (Bottiani Decl., Ex. A, ¶
4.)  It further provides, “Claims not
covered by this Agreement [include] representative claims arising under the
California Private Attorneys General Act of 2004 (PAGA).”  (Id., ¶ 5.)  
4. Confidentiality of “Personnel Information”
Finally, plaintiff argues
the arbitration agreement is unconscionable because the confidentiality
agreement prohibits employees from disclosing their wages.  A “restriction on discussing wages” is
substantively unconscionable.  (Alberto,
supra,
91 Cal.App.5th at p. 494.)  Such a
provision violates Labor Code section 232, which prohibits employers from
requiring an employee to “refrain from disclosing the amount of his or her
wages.”  (Lab. Code, § 232(a).)  
The parties’ confidentiality
agreement does not restrict employees from discussing wages.  Plaintiff relies on a provision defining
“confidential information” to include “personnel information including the
productivity and profitability (or lack thereof) of Company’s employees,
agents, or independent contractors.”  (Scalia
Decl., Ex. 2, § I.C.7.)  Plaintiff
argues, “While the terms ‘personnel information’ and ‘productivity and
profitability’ are not defined by the agreement, such broad language would
restrain employees from even discussing their wages.”  (Opp., p. 12.)  
This provision does not prohibit
employees from disclosing the amount of their wages.  It limits disclosing “personnel information
including the productivity and profitability” of employees.  “Productivity” concerns the employees’ value
to the company, regardless of how much the company pays them.  “Profitability” does not refer to wages or
pay of employees.  Profit generally means
“[t]he excess of revenues over expenditures in a business transaction.”  (Black’s Law Dict. (11th ed. 2019).)  Employees’ wages or salary are their income,
not “profit.”  The term “profitability”
does not apply to employees working for hourly wages or annual salary.  In contrast, in Alberto, “the Confidentiality Agreement treated ‘compensation
and salary data and other employee information’ as a supposed ‘trade secret.’
”  (Alberto, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at p. 493.)  
Limiting disclosure of
“personnel information including the productivity and profitability (or lack
thereof) of Company’s employees, agents, or independent contractors” cannot
reasonably be interpreted to prohibit an employee from disclosing the amount of
his or her wages.  Had the parties
intended that result, the agreement would have used clear language like the
term “compensation”, as it does in protecting “the financial status,
compensation, or personal information of individuals who own the Company.”  (Scalia Decl., Ex. 2, § 1.C.6.)  This provision is not unconscionable.   
Severability
            The court exercises its discretion to sever the two
substantively unconscionable provisions in the parties’ arbitration and
confidentiality agreements.  “In the
context of severing unconscionable provisions from an arbitration agreement, ‘the
strong legislative and judicial preference is to sever the offending term and enforce
the balance of the agreement.’ ”  (Alberto,
supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at p. 495.)  A
court should not enforce an agreement “permeated by unconscionability.”  (Ibid., internal quotes omitted.)  “One factor weighing against severance is when
‘the arbitration agreement contains more than one unlawful provision.’ ”  (Ibid.)
Here, the parties’ agreement
has two unconscionable terms: (1) the confidentiality agreement’s provision
permitting the employer to seek an injunction in court (Scalia Decl., Ex. 2, § 7), and (2) the arbitration
agreement’s provision permitting the employer to recover attorney fees incurred
in compelling arbitration (Bottiani Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 16).  These two provisions can be “stri[cken] or restrict[ed] in order to
remove the unconscionable taint from the agreement.”  (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 124-125.)  The agreement is not permeated with
unconscionability.  
Disposition
            Defendants Gigi
C’s Bikinis, LLC and Tina Caruso’s motion to compel arbitration is granted.  
The court
hereby severs the following provisions of the parties’ agreements: (1) the
entire Section 7 of the confidentiality agreement, titled “Remedies” (Scalia Decl., Ex. 2,
§ 7), and (2) the sentence, “If the Suit-Filing Party does not timely serve
his/her/its agreement to arbitrate and the Enforcing Party successfully compels
the Suit-Filing Party to arbitration, the Enforcing Party shall be entitled to
the reasonable attorneys’ fees incurred in enforcing this Agreement” in
paragraph 16 of the arbitration agreement. 
(Bottiani Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 16.)  
Plaintiff Monique
Ocegueda is ordered to arbitrate this action against defendants.  The court hereby stays the entire
action pending resolution of the arbitration proceeding.