 Case Number:  24SMCP00066    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  O  Case Name: 
Namecheap, Inc v. Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers



Case No.:


24SMCP00066


Complaint Filed:


1-31-24




Hearing Date:


9-24-24 


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


14


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


None



SUBJECT:                 DEMURRER WITHOUT MOTION TO
STRIKE
MOVING
PARTY:   Defendant Internet
Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers
RESP.
PARTY:         Plaintiff Namecheap,
Inc.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Defendant
Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers’ (ICANN) Demurrer to
Plaintiff Namecheap, Inc.’s Petition to Confirm an Arbitration Award is
OVERRULED. Plaintiff’s petition states a proper proper petition claim for relief
 under CCP §§ 1286.2 and 1286.4.  To the extent Defendant’s demurrer seeks an order
to vacate the arbitration award CCP §§ 1286.2 and 1286.4. that request is
DENIED.
 
            Nothing in
this order precludes the Court’s consideration of the merits of the petition, including
any objection to the scope of Plaintiff’s proposed order or judgment confirming
the award that seeks relief that is not in conformity with the arbitration
award. 
            
Defendant’s and Plaintiff’s
respective RJNs are DENIED. (See Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General
Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 113 [“The hearing on demurrer may
not be turned into a contested evidentiary hearing through the guise of having
the court take judicial notice of documents whose truthfulness or proper
interpretation are disputable.”]
 
REASONING
As a general matter, in a demurrer
proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via
proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116
Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the
evidence or facts alleged.” (E428.50Fab, Inc. v. Accountants,
Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes
the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Id.)
The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it
stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
740, 747.)
 
“Any party to an arbitration in
which an award has been made may petition the court to confirm, correct or
vacate the award. The petition shall name as respondents all parties to the
arbitration and may name as respondents any other persons bound by the arbitration
award. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.) A petition to confirm, correct, or vacate an
arbitration award must include the following:
 
(a) Set forth the substance of or have
attached a copy of the agreement to arbitrate unless the petitioner denies the
existence of such an agreement.
(b) Set forth the names of the
arbitrators.
(c) Set forth or have attached a copy
of the award and the written opinion of the arbitrators, if any.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.4.)
 
“If an award is confirmed, judgment
shall be entered in conformity therewith....” 


(Code Civ. Proc., § 1287.4)
 
“A response to a petition may
request that the court dismiss the petition or confirm, correct or vacate the
award. (Code of Civ. Proc., § 1285.2.) A petition or a response requesting that
the court correct or vacate an award must set forth the grounds for the relief.
(Code of Civ. Proc, § 1285.8.).” (Soni v. SimpleLayers, Inc. (2019) 42
Cal.App.5th 1071, 1085.)
 
Plaintiff Namecheap, Inc.
(“Namecheap”) pleads the following allegations in its petition to confirm an
arbitration award:
 
1.    
Namecheap sets forth the substance of the agreement to
arbitrate stating that the Independent Review process (“IRP”) “proceedings
allow independent review of ICANN’s actions that are alleged to violate the
Articles or Bylaws, and “[o]n February 25, 2020, Namecheap initiated the IRP
pursuant to ICANN’s Bylaws.” (Petition, ¶¶ 6, 7, 38.)
2.    
Namecheap provides the Bylaws sections allowing the
IRP. (See Petition., Exhibit A, ¶¶ 443, 455-456, citing Bylaws Sections 4.3(r),
4.3(o)(iii))
3.    
Namecheap includes the names of the arbitrators within the
“Final Declaration of the Independent Review Process Panel” on the cover page
of Exhibit A attached to the Petition. (See Petition, Ex. A at p. 15 of
Petition.)
4.    
Namecheap attaches the “Final Declaration of the
Independent Review Process Panel” as Exhibit A to Petition. (See Petition, ¶ 8;
Ex. A.)
 
ICANN does not argue that
Arbitrators exceeded the boundaries of their duty, or any other means to vacate
the arbitration award pursuant to CCP §§ 1286.2 and 1286.4. In turn,
Namecheap pleads all the necessary elements of a petition to confirm an
arbitration award.
 
“‘Our analysis begins and ends with Code of
Civil Procedure section 1286.... If a petition or response under this chapter
is duly served and filed, the court shall confirm the award as made, whether
rendered in this state or another state, unless in accordance with this chapter
it corrects the award and confirms it as corrected, vacates the award or
dismisses the proceeding.” The Legislature's use of the word “shall” renders
this provision mandatory. (Citation.) “Under Code of Civil Procedure section
1286, once a petition to confirm, correct, or vacate is filed, the superior
court has only four choices: It may (1) confirm the award, (2) correct the
award and confirm it as corrected, (3) vacate the award, or (4) dismiss the
proceedings.” (Citation.) “A party to an arbitration may seek to vacate or
correct the award or to have it confirmed. [Citation.] Upon a petition seeking
any of those results, the court must confirm the award, unless it
either vacates or corrects it. [Citations.]” Law Offices of David S. Karton v. Segreto (2009) 176 Cal.App.4th 1, 8: 
 
 
ICANN demurs to Namecheap’s Petition
to Confirm Arbitration Award arguing that the petition is improper as a matter
of law because the petition seeks  “additional
requirements on ICANN that go well beyond the scope of the arbitration award.” (Demurrer,
p. 17:1–9.) ICANN argues that the petition “transforms the Panel’s non-binding
recommendations into mandatory requirements, sets arbitrary deadlines on ICANN
to implement the Final Declaration’s non-binding recommendations, and includes
relief that was neither mentioned in the Final Declaration nor considered by
the Panel.” (Ibid.)
 
ICANN relies on SunLine Transit
Agency v. Amalgamated Transit Union, Local 1277 (2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 292
for the proposition that the Court can dismiss the petition because Plaintiff the
petition seeks an order that exceeds the bound of the award itself.  In Sunline, the defendant was
petitioning the court for the arbitration award to be vacated due to the
arbitrator exceeding their “express and implied powers under the MOU.” (SunLine,
supra, 189 Cal.App.4th at p. 309.) Sunline
does not stand for the proposition
that a party can demur to a petition to confirm an arbitration award just because
the petition itself exceeds the bounds of the award.  ICANN is not arguing that the arbitrators
exceeded the bounds of their powers. 
ICANN provides no authority showing the court can sustain a demurrer to
a petition to confirm a award, based solely  on the grounds the petition seeks an order that
seeks relief that exceeds that granted by the award. 
 
Finally, ICANN argues the petition to confirm the arbitration award is
moot and fails as a matter of law because “ICANN has already considered the
Final Declaration and passed a formal Board Resolution acknowledging the
Panel’s declarations that Namecheap prevailed on certain of its claims IRP,
that ICANN violated its Articles of Incorporation and/or Bylaws in the manner
set forth in the Final Declaration, and that ICANN reimburse Namecheap the sum
of the fees and expenses the Panel declared ICANN owed (which it has done).
(RJN, Exhibit A).” (Demurrer, p. 19.) However, the Court cannot take judicial
notice to the facts of what ICANN claims it has considered or passed in
relation to the arbitration award. The Court must accept all the pleaded facts
as true upon demurrer. (See Yvanova v. New Century Mortgage Corp. (2016)
62 Cal.4th 919, 924 [“For purposes of reviewing a demurrer, we accept the truth
of material facts properly pleaded in the operative complaint”].)
 
Thus, ICANN’s demurrer is
OVERRULED. 

 