 Case Number:  24SMCV01910    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  O  Case Name: 
Lopez v. Gavrieli Brands, LLC



Case No.:


24SMCV01910 


Complaint Filed:


4-23-24           




Hearing Date:


9-24-24 


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


11


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


None



SUBJECT:                 MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
MOVING
PARTY:   Defendant Gavrieli Brands,
LLC
RESP.
PARTY:         Plaintiff Lesbia Rebeca
Sandoval Lopez
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Defendant Gavrieli Brands, LLC’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration is GRANTED. Defendant provides the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement entered into by the Plaintiff on 2-22-22. Plaintiff does not meet
their burden to prove a defense by a preponderance of evidence.  The action is stayed
pending resolution of arbitration pursuant to CCP §1281.4.
  
 
REASONING
 
Under
both the Title 9 section 2 of the United States Code (known as the Federal
Arbitration Act, hereinafter “FAA”) and the Title 9 of Part III of the
California Code of Civil Procedure commencing at section 1281 (known as the
California Arbitration Act, hereinafter “CAA”), arbitration agreements are
valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law
or equity for voiding a contract.  (Winter
v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.)  
 
“The
petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by the preponderance of the evidence, and a party opposing the petition
bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact
necessary to its defense. In these summary proceedings, the trial court sits as
a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other
documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court's
discretion, to reach a final determination.” (Giuliano v. Inland Empire
Personnel, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.)   “The party opposing arbitration has the
burden of demonstrating that an arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to
require arbitration of the dispute.” (Rice v. Downs (2016) 247
Cal.App.4th 1213, 1223, citing Coast Plaza Doctors Hospital v. Blue Cross of
California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677, 686-87.)   “On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists, unless it determines that: (a) The right to compel
arbitration has been waived by the petitioner…” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)
 
"[W]hen
a petition to compel arbitration is filed and accompanied by prima facie
evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the controversy, the court itself
must determine whether the agreement exists and, if any defense to its
enforcement is raised, whether it is enforceable. Because the existence of the
agreement is a statutory prerequisite to granting the petition, the petitioner
bears the burden of proving its existence by a preponderance of the
evidence." (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996)
14 Cal.4th 394, 413.)
 
“A
party opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of
evidence any fact necessary to its defense.” (Olvera v. El Pollo Loco, Inc.
(2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 447, 453.) CCP §1281.2 only allows the Court to deny
enforcement of an applicable arbitration agreement where the party resisting
arbitration demonstrates (1) waiver; (2) grounds for rescission of the
agreement; or (3) subsection (c) grounds involving third parties to the
arbitration agreement and potential for inconsistent rulings of fact or law.
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)
 
I.               
Defendant establishes the existence of an
applicable arbitration agreement 
 
Defendant Gavrieli Brands, LLC
(“Defendant”) submits a copy of the Employment and Confidentiality Agreement
(“Employment Agreement”) containing the arbitration agreement, entered into between
Defendant and Plaintiff Lesbia Rebeca Sandoval Lopez (“Plaintiff”) on 2-22-22.
(Hinton Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. A.) Defendant provides a declaration from Samantha
Hinton, the Vice President of Operations for Defendant, who declares she has
personal knowledge of the facts and “responsible for overseeing the daily
functioning of the Company’s operations, ensuring efficiency, productivity, and
quality across all departments.” (Id., ¶ 1.)  Defendant moves to compel arbitration pursuant
to ¶ 13 on pages 4 and 5 of the Employment Agreement which states in relevant
part:
 
13. Dispute Resolution.  In the event there a dispute between the
Company and Employee arising out of or otherwise relating to the relationship
between the Company the Employee or the termination of the relationship . . . .
Employee and Company agree to submit all such controversies, claims or disputes
to be resolved by final and binding arbitration . . . .
 
Said disputes may include, but are not
limited to, any and all claims under federal, state, or local law arising in
contract, tort, or under any statute, regulation or ordinance of any kind or
under common law (including, but not limited to, claims for breach of contract
or covenant (express or implied), tort claims, claims under the California Fair
Employment and Housing Act (which includes claims for discrimination and
harassment on the basis of age, race, color, ancestry, national origin,
disability, medical condition, marital status, religious creed, sex, pregnancy,
and sexual orientation), claims under the California Labor code, the Federal
Fair Labor Standards Act, claims for benefits, claims for violation of common
law or federal, state, or other governmental law, statute, regulation or
ordinance).
 
(Hinton Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. A, ¶ 13 at pp.
4–5.)
 
            The
arbitration provision is signed by both Defendant sand Plaintiff. (Id.,
¶¶ 5,  Ex. A.) The arbitration provision
is broad and applies to a dispute “arising out of or otherwise relating to the
relationship between the Company the Employee or the termination of the
relationship . . .” (Id.)  The
language of the arbitration clause is considered “very broad.” (See Larkin
v. Williams, Woolley, Cogswell, Nakazawa & Russell (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th
227, 230 (arbitration clause applicable to “any controversy or claim arising
out of or relating to any provision” of partnership agreement was “very broad”
and applied to plaintiff’s complaint for breach of partnership agreement,
dissolution and accounting); Ramos v. Supr. Ct. (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th
1042, 1052 (arbitration clauses using the phrase “arising out of or related to”
are construed more broadly than arbitration clauses only using “arising from”
or “arising out of an agreement”); Berman v. Dean Witter & Co., Inc. 
(1975) 44 Cal.App.3d 999, 1003 (arbitration agreement applying to “any
controversy arising out of or relating to this contract” was “certainly broad
enough to embrace tort as well as contractual liabilities so long as they have
their roots in the relationship between the parties which was created by the
contract”).   
 
            Defendants
argue the broad arbitration clause applies to the Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
Defendant has provided the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement which encompasses the causes of action within Plaintiff’s complaint,
as the Complaint generally alleges causes of action surrounding the termination
of her employment. Termination of employment is covered by the broad
arbitration agreement submitted by Defendant. (See Hinton Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. A, ¶
13 at pp. 4–5.)
 
II.  
Plaintiff argues the Arbitration Agreement is Unconscionable
 
            Plaintiff argues the arbitration agreement is
procedurally and substantively unconscionable, thus grounds for rescission of
the agreement under CCP § 1281.2(b). (See Oppo., 6–9.)  Plaintiff does not argue that the signature on
the arbitration agreement is not hers, nor that she did not sign the agreement
 
            “The prevailing view is that procedural and substantive
unconscionability must both be present in order for a court to exercise its
discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the doctrine of
unconscionability.  But they need not be
present in the same degree. Essentially a sliding scale is invoked which
disregards the regularity of the procedural process of the contract formation,
that creates the terms, in proportion to the greater harshness or
unreasonableness of the substantive terms themselves.  In other words, the more substantively
oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability
is required to come to the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice
versa.” (Baltazar v. Forever 21, Inc. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237,
1243–1244, quoting Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc.
(2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114).
 
a.    
Procedural Unconscionability
 
            “The procedural element addresses the circumstances of
contract negotiation and formation, focusing on oppression or surprise due to
unequal bargaining power.  Oppression
occurs where a contract involves lack of negotiation and meaningful choice,
surprise where the allegedly unconscionable provision is hidden within a prolix
printed form.  When the contract is a
contract of adhesion imposed and drafted by the party with superior bargaining
power, the adhesive nature of the contract is evidence of some degree of
procedural unconscionability. However, the fact that an agreement is adhesive
is not, alone, sufficient to render it unconscionable.”  (Malone v. Superior Court (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 1551, 1561.)
 
            “The term contract of adhesion signifies a standardized
contract, which, imposed and drafted by the party of superior bargaining
strength, relegates to the subscribing party only the opportunity to adhere to
the contract or reject it.”  (Armendariz,
supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 113.) 
Thus, a form agreement presented on a preprinted form and offered on a
take-it-or-leave-it-basis would render it a contract of adhesion.  (Baltazar, supra, 62 Cal.4th
at p. 1245.)  Where a contract of
adhesion is presented but there is no element of surprise or oppression, the
Court must be “particularly attuned” to a claim of unconscionability, but the
agreement is “not subject[ed] to the same degree of scrutiny as contracts of
adhesion that involve surprise or other sharp practices.”  (Ibid.)  
 
            “The circumstances relevant to establishing oppression
include, but are not limited to (1) the amount of time the party is given to
consider the proposed contract; (2) the amount and type of pressure exerted on
the party to sign the proposed contract; (3) the length of the proposed
contract and the length and complexity of the challenged provision; (4) the
education and experience of the party; and (5) whether the party's review of
the proposed contract was aided by an attorney.”  (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th
111, 126–127.)
 
            Oppression occurs where a contract involves lack
of negotiation and meaningful choice, surprise where the allegedly
unconscionable provision is hidden within a prolix printed form.’ ” ’ (Pinnacle,
supra, 55 Cal.4th at p. 247, italics added; see De La Torre v.
CashCall, Inc. (2018) 5 Cal.5th 966, 983.)” (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho
(2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 126, italics by OTO Court.)
 
            Plaintiff argues the Arbitration Agreement is
procedurally unconscionable because Defendant relies on an English only
arbitration agreement, and Plaintiff’s primary and first language in Spanish.
(Oppo., p 3:14–20.) Plaintiff argues Defendant provides no evidence that
Plaintiff understood the arbitration agreement due to the arbitration
agreement’s lack of a Spanish translation. (Ibid.) Plaintiff does not
provide any declaration or other evidence that Plaintiff’s primary language is
Spanish, nor that Plaintiff does not read, speak or understand English. Plaintiff
additionally does not provide any evidence that Defendant knew Plaintiff was
not proficient in English. Without any admissible evidence to support the
argument the Court cannot find the agreement to be procedurally unconscionable
based on a language barrier, or lack of understanding the agreement. 
 
            The Court agrees proof a party to an arbitration
agreement could not read or write English could cause a high degree of
procedural unconscionability. However, in Esteban H. Carmona et al. v.
Lincoln Millennium Car Wash Inc. et al. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 74, there
was persuasive evidence the Plaintiff there could not read or write English, that
Spanish was his native language, and that the managers never explained the
document to Plaintiff. (See Carmona, supra,  226 Cal.App.4th at p. 80.) Plaintiff also
cites to Nunez v Cycad Mgmt. (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 276 which states that
there was procedural unconscionability because it was undisputed that Plaintiff
here could not read English and that Defendant “did not provide a Spanish
version of the Agreement.” (Nunez, supra 77 Cal.App.5th
at p. 284.) Here it is not undisputed that Plaintiff could not read or understand
English. Indeed, Plaintiff does not provide any evidence the Plaintiff does not
read or understand English.
 
            Plaintiff argues there is procedural unconscionability
due to the arbitration agreement being buried within the Employment Agreement,
but they do not provide any argument nor authority. The arbitration agreement
is underneath a section titled “Dispute Resolution,” and the word
arbitration does not appear within this paragraph until the fifth line. The paragraph
is written in dense legal language, and arbitration is not highlighted or
bolded within the paragraph. Additionally, the arbitration agreement is on page
four through five of the employment agreement, in paragraph 13. The placement
of the agreement and lack of clear visibility leads to a low level of
procedural unconscionability for oppression. However, procedural
unconscionability alone is not enough for a finding of unconscionability, as substantive
unconscionability must be present as well. 
 
b.    
Substantive Unconscionability
 
Substantive
unconscionability focuses on the terms of the agreement and whether those terms
are “so one sided as to “’shock the conscience.’” (Kinney v. United
Healthcare Services, Inc. (1999) 70 Cal. App.4th 1329, 1330.)  “To reiterate, we assess
unconscionability with a sliding scale approach. [Citation] In light of the high degree of procedural
unconscionability, even a low degree of substantive unconscionability could
render the arbitration agreement unconscionable.” (Carmona v. Lincoln Millennium Car Wash, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 74, 85.)
Plaintiff
argues the arbitration agreement is substantively unconscionable because the
agreement is overbroad based on Plaintiff’s responsibilities of maintaining the
cleanliness and hygiene of the warehouse and office. Additionally, Plaintiff
argues the agreement is:
1.     Overly
broad confidentiality agreement that seeks to maintain her confidentiality in
perpetuity
2.     An
overly broad photography and model release in perpetuity that does not allow
Plaintiff to rescind her release
3.     An
unlawful Inventions Assignment
4.     Provision
that the prevailing party shall have the right to collect attorney fees and
costs
(Oppo., p. 5:2–11.)
            The
Court may, and does, “disregard conclusory arguments that are not supported by
pertinent legal authority or fail to disclose the reasoning by which the
appellant reached the conclusions he wants us to adopt.” (United Grand Corp.
v. Malibu Hillbillies, LLC (2019) 36 Cal.App.5th 142, 153.)
            The
Court cannot find any degree of substantive unconscionability exists due to the
lack of evidence provided by the Plaintiff, and Plaintiff’s unsupported
arguments. A small degree of procedural unconscionability alone is not
sufficient for the Court to find the agreement was unconscionable. Thus,
Plaintiff does not establish a defense to arbitrability.
Defendant’s
Motion to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED. 
 
III.          
Stay pending
resolution of arbitration pursuant to CCP §1281.4 
            “If a court of competent jurisdiction, whether in this
State or not, has ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an issue
involved in an action or proceeding pending before a court of this State, the
court in which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a
party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an
arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such
earlier time as the court specifies.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.) 
The action is stayed pending resolution of arbitration
pursuant to CCP §1281.4.