  Case Number:  20STCV25326    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



SANTA PLAYA VISTA PANINI INVESTMENTS, INC., a Nevada corporation,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
INVESCO ADVISERS, INC., a Delaware corporation; RUNWAY OWNER,
  LLC, a Delaware limited liability company; PLAYA RUNWAY, LP, a Delaware
  limited partnership; DJM CAPITAL PARTNERS, INC., a California corporation;
  UNIVERSAL PROTECTION SERVICE, LP, a California limited partnership; and DOES
  1 through 100, inclusive,
                        Defendants.
______________________________________
RUNWAY OWNER, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company,
                        Cross-Complainant,
            v.
SANTA PLAYA VISTA PANINI INVESTMENTS, INC., a Nevada corporation;
  MIKE RAFIPOOR, an individual; and ROES 1 through 10, inclusive,
                        Cross-Defendants.


 Case No.:          20STCV25326
 Hearing Date:   12/08/23
 Trial Date:        7/30/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
[Plaintiff and
  Cross-Defendant Santa Playa Vista Panini Investments, Inc. and
  Cross-Defendant Mike Rafipoor’s] Motion
  to Quash or Limit Deposition Subpoena for Business Records to Baker Tilly US,
  LLP and Nano Banc.



 
Background
Pleadings
Plaintiff Santa Playa Vista Panini
Investments, Inc. (Santa Playa) sues Defendants Invesco Advisers, Inc.
(Invesco), Runway Owner, LLC (Runway), Playa Owner, LP (Playa), DJM Capital
Partners, Inc. (DJM), Universal Protection Service, LP (Universal), and Does
1-100 pursuant to a June 17, 2021 Third Amended Complaint (TAC), alleging
claims of: (1) Fraud; (2) Fraudulent Concealment; (3) Negligent
Misrepresentation; (4) Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic
Advantage (challenged successfully on demurrer, without leave to amend, by
Universal); (5) Negligent Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage; (6)
Breach of Contract; (7) Breach of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (8) Trespass;
(9) Nuisance; (10) Negligence; (11) Declaratory Relief; (12) Discrimination and
Retaliation (Civil Code § 51); and (13) Breach of the Covenant of Quiet
Enjoyment.
(Playa was dismissed without
prejudice by the Court on September 13, 2021, based on Santa Playa’s failure to
serve the operative summons and complaint on Playa. Universal was dismissed
with prejudice by Santa Playa on August 9, 2022, after the Court granted an
April 9, 2022/May 11, 2022 good faith settlement application made by these
parties.)
The TAC’s claims arise from
allegations that, among other things, Santa Playa—a company operating
Mediterranean-style restaurants—leased from Invesco, Runway, and DJM (Landlord
Defendants) commercial restaurant space located at 12751 Millennium Dr #110,
Los Angeles, CA 90094 (Premises). Landlord Defendants and Universal were
alleged as alter egos of one another. Despite Landlord Defendants’
representations during contractual negotiations, however, after Santa Playa
completed construction of its business on the Premises, Santa Playa failed to
receive the benefit of promised foot traffic and signage for the business, with
the business further negatively affected by Landlord Defendants’ six-month
shutdown of the road on which the Premises were located. These difficulties,
compounded by COVID-19 restrictions on dining, caused Santa Playa to lose
customers and led Santa Playa to vacate the Premises on June 26, 2020. After
this vacatur, Landlord Defendants removed “closed” banners hung by Playa
outside the Premises and harassed Santa Playa by placing Universal security
guards on or near the Premises and by refusing to permit Santa Playa access to
the Premises to remove their belongings, such as by locking out the Premises
and refusing roof access.
Defendant Runway, in a
Cross-Complaint filed October 22, 2022, sues Santa Playa, Cross-Defendant Mike
Rafipoor (Rafipoor), and Roes 1 through 10, asserting causes of action of: (1)
Breach of Contract; (2) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing; (3) Negligence; (4) Negligent Interference with Prospective Economic
Advantage; (5) Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage;
(6) Public Nuisance; (7) Private Nuisance; (8) Declaratory Relief; and (9) Rent
on Abandonment and Termination of Lease [Civ. Code § 1951.2].
            The
Cross-Complaint alleges, among other things, that Santa Playa broke the lease
between the parties by hanging contractually unauthorized banners with
inflammatory language outside the Premises, demolishing the Premises in their
entirety and failing to return them to broom-clean condition (waste), and
trespassing on the Premises after a change of locks on the Premises, causing
damage thereto in the process (e.g., breaking a water sprinkler which triggered
a fire alarm for the building).
Motion Before the Court
On October 13, 2023, Santa Playa and
Rafipoor (collectively, “Cross-Defendants”) moved for an order quashing or
limiting the deposition subpoenas for production of business records that Cross-Complainant
Runway served on nonparties Baker Tilly, US (Baker) and Nano Banc (Nano). 
On November 27, 2023, Runway filed its
opposition to the motion.
As of December 7, 2023, no reply
has been filed. 
Motion
to Quash: GRANTED IN PART. 
Legal Standard
“To pursue the deposition of a
nonparty, a party must generally serve a deposition subpoena.” (Board of
Registered Nursing v. Superior Court of Orange County (2021) 59 Cal.App.5th
1011, 1030, citing Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.010, subd. (a).) 
“A business records subpoena
directs the nonparty’s custodian of records (or other qualified person) to
deliver the requested documents (in person, by messenger, or by mail) to the
‘deposition officer’ specified in the subpoena. ([Code Civ. Proc.] § 2020.430,
subd. (a).)” (Unzipped Apparel, LLC v. Bader (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 123,
131.) The subpoena must “designate the
business records to be produced either by specifically describing each
individual item or by reasonably particularizing each category of item, and
shall specify the form in which any electronically stored information is to be
produced, if a particular form is desired.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.410, subd.
(a).) 
“[T]he court, upon motion reasonably made by any person [including a
party] … may make an order quashing [a] subpoena entirely, modifying it, or
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).)
The court may also “make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the
person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable
violations of the right of privacy of the person.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1,
subd. (a).)
Discussion
As an initial matter, the Court discusses the procedural
issues raised in Cross-Complainant Runway’s opposition. 
First, Runway argues that the motion should be denied
because the motion was brought against Invesco instead of Runway, the party
that issued the subpoenas. (Opposition, pp. 9:24-10:2.) 
Indeed, the Court notes that Cross-Defendants state it
was Invesco that issued the subpoena at issue even though according to the
copies of the subpoenas the Cross-Defendants have submitted, the “requesting
party” is Runway. (See Motion, Declaration of Jores Kharatian), ¶ 2;
Exhibit A – a copy of the subpoenas.) 
Nevertheless, the Court will consider
the motion on the merits, as Runway has responded and failed to show prejudice.

Second, Runway argues that the
motion should be denied because the movants failed to submit a separate
statement for each subpoena and instead submitted one separate statement.
Runway also contends that the separate statement is confusing. 
“Any motion involving the content
of a discovery request or the responses to such a request must be accompanied
by a separate statement. The motions that require a separate statement include
a motion: … [¶¶] (5) To compel or to quash the production of documents or
tangible things at a deposition ….” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a).)
 “A separate statement is a separate document
filed and served with the discovery motion that provides all the information
necessary to understand each discovery request and all the responses to it that
are at issue. The separate statement must be full and complete so that no
person is required to review any other document in order to determine the full
request and the full response.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(c).) 
Here, even if the Court were to
agree that Cross-Defendants should have filed separate statements for each
subpoena, the current separate statement is sufficient because it identifies
each request for production at issue in the subpoenas and explains the
Cross-Defendants’ reasons for objecting to each of those requests.
Lastly, Runway argues the
Cross-Defendants did not meet and confer in good faith. 
However, the governing statute (Code
of Civil Procedure section 1987.1) did not require the moving parties to meet
and confer before filing the instant motion. (See Notice of Motion, p. ii:21-23
[stating that Cross-Defendants are bringing the motion under Section 1987.1].)
The Code of Civil Procedure sections that Runway cites, 2017.020(a) and
2019.030(b), concern motions for protective orders. 
Accordingly, even if the parties’
meet and confer process was insufficient, the Court will still consider the
motion on its merits. 
            Cross-Defendants move for an order
quashing the subpoenas, arguing that the subpoenas (1) seek irrelevant
information, (2) are overly broad as they go beyond the landlord-tenant, breach
of commercial lease dispute at issue in the case, (3) seek third party
information (e.g., information regarding Santa Playa’s former employees), and
(4) seek private and privileged financial information, including bank account
statements and tax returns. 
Cross-Defendants further argue that to the extent Runway
is seeking pretrial discovery of the Cross-Defendants’ financial condition,
Runway should have complied with Civil Code section 3295. That statute “allows
the trial court, ‘at any time,’ to enter an order permitting the discovery of a
defendant’s profits and/or financial condition, if the plaintiff has
established that there is a substantial probability that he or she can prevail
on a claim upon which an award of punitive damages can be based.” (Mike
Davidov Co. v. Issod (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 597, 609 [italics removed].) Given
those reasons, Runway asks the Court to quash the subpoenas or, in the
alternative, issue a protective order “[l]imiting the subpoenas to the
production of ‘financial documents of [Santa Playa] relating to the property
located at 12751 Millennium Dr #110, Los Angeles, CA 90094, prepared by the
non-party entities within the five years preceding the Subpoena.” (Motion, p.
9:23-10:4.)
            In opposition, Runway argues the
Court should deny the motion for the following reasons. 
First, the subpoenas seek relevant information for the
following reasons. The Cross-Defendants’ financial records, including history
of transactions and/or transfers between them and any related entities, are
directly relevant to (1) substantiate Runway’s allegations that Rafipoor is the
alter ego of Santa Playa and (2) support the cross-complainant’s punitive
damages claim; 3) documents and communications relating to Santa Playa’s
payroll and application for a loan pursuant to the Paycheck Protection Program
are directly relevant to Santa Playa’s claim for damages resulting from
financial losses allegedly caused by Runway; and 4) documents and
communications relating to the action, lease, or premises are critical to determine,
among other things, whether the movants have engaged in communications with
their financial advisors to evade their rent obligations to Runway and whether
the Cross-Defendants are alter egos. 
Second, the subpoenas do not seek any privileged
documents or communications. Although federal and state tax returns are
generally privileged from disclosure, two recognized exceptions are applicable
here, and the Cross-Defendants have not addressed those exceptions. Therefore,
the Cross-Defendants have failed to meet their burden of showing that the
documents are privileged. 
Third, Runway does not need to show a “compelling need” for
information at issue in the subpoenas. In Hill v. National Collegiate
Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1 (“Hill”), the California Court of
Appeal held that a “compelling interest” is only required “[w]here the case
involves an obvious invasion of an interest fundamental to personal autonomy,
e.g., freedom from involuntary sterilization or the freedom to pursue consensual
familial relationships.” (Id. p. 34, fn. 11.) In contrast, invasions of
“informational privacy,” such as the financial records here, do not infringe a
fundamental right and thus do not require such a showing. (Ibid.)
Fourth, Cross-Defendants have failed to meet their burden
of establishing that their privacy interests outweigh the need for discovery.
However, even if they have met that burden, the importance of the information
outweighs any privacy interest. 
The Court notes that although there are four (4)
subpoenas at issue, two of those subpoenas were served on nonparty Baker (the
“Baker Subpoenas”) and the other two on nonparty Nano (the “Nano Subpoenas”).
The Court has reviewed the Baker Subpoenas and notes that they are identical
(i.e., they contain the same 23 requests for production of documents), and the
same is true for the Nano Subpoenas (they contain the same 15 requests for
production). Therefore, it is the Court’s understanding that there are only two
types of subpoenas at issue: one propounded on Baker and the other on Nano. 
Runway’s argument that the subpoenas seek information
relevant to its punitive damages claim is not a persuasive reason for the Court
to deny the motion to quash. As the Cross-Defendants argue, “‘[p]retrial
discovery of a defendant’s financial condition in connection with a claim for
punitive damages is prohibited absent a court order permitting such discovery.’”
(I-CA Enterprises, Inc. v. Palram Americas, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th
257, 282.) “[A] plaintiff who believes that there is a substantial probability
that the plaintiff will prevail on its punitive damages claim must seek such a
court order in order to obtain the supporting information.” (Id. at p.
283.) Civil Code section 3295, subdivision (c), requires a party desiring
discovery of a defendant’s financial information to bring a motion in order to
obtain such information. (Ibid.) “Then, the trial court must determine
whether the plaintiff has established a ‘substantial probability’ of prevailing
on the claim for punitive damages” before granting such an order. (Ibid.)
“‘In this context, a “substantial probability” of prevailing on a claim for
punitive damages means that it is “very likely” that the plaintiff will prevail
on such a claim or there is a “‘strong likelihood’” that the plaintiff will
prevail on such a claim.’ [Citation.]” (Ibid.) Here, Runway has not
brought a motion under Civil Code section 3925, subdivision (c), let alone shown
a substantial probability of prevailing on its punitive damages claim. 
The Court also agrees that the subpoenas are overly broad
and seek information interfering with Rafipoor’s right to privacy in his
financial records. 
When evaluating potential privacy violations concerning
discovery, the Court is guided by the framework articulated in Hill,
which “sets forth in detail the analytical framework for assessing claims of
invasion of privacy under the state Constitution.” (Pioneer Electronics
(USA), Inc. v. Superior Court (2007) 40 Cal.4th 360, 370.) 
According to Hill, “[t]he party asserting a
privacy right must establish a legally protected privacy interest, an
objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a
threatened intrusion that is serious. [Citation.]” (Williams v. Superior
Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552 (“Williams”), citing Hill, supra,
7 Cal.4th at pp. 35-40.) 
“The party seeking information may raise in response
whatever legitimate and important countervailing interests’ disclosure serves,
while the party seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives that
serve the same interests or protective measures that would diminish the loss of
privacy.” (Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 552.) 
“A court must then balance these competing
considerations.” (Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 552.) 
Here, Rafipoor has a right to privacy in his financial
matters.
(Shaffer v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 993, 999.) 
Runway argues that the subpoenas seek information
relevant to its allegations that the Cross-Defendants are alter egos of one
other. 
“Whether a party is liable under an
alter-ego theory is normally a question of fact” that depends on the facts of
each case. (Zoran Corp. v. Chen (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 799, 811 (“Zoran”).)

“[I]t is generally stated that in
order to prevail on an alter-ego theory, the plaintiff must show that ‘(1)
there is such a unity of interest that the separate personalities of the
corporations no longer exist; and (2) inequitable results will follow if the
corporate separateness is respected.’ [Citation.]” (Zoran, supra,
185 Cal.App.4th at p. 811.) 
The alter ego test encompasses a
host of factors, including (1) the commingling of funds and other assets, (2)
the treatment by an individual of the assets of the corporation as his own, (3)
the holding out by an individual that he is personally liable for the debts of
the corporation, (4) sole ownership of all of the stock in a corporation by one
individual, (5) the failure to adequately capitalize a corporation, (6) the
total absence of corporate assets, and undercapitalization, (7) the use of a
corporation as a mere shell, instrumentality or conduit for a single venture or
the business of an individual or another corporation, and (8) the diversion of
assets from a corporation by or to a stockholder or other person or entity, to
the detriment of creditors. (Zoran, supra, 185 Cal.App.4th at pp.
811-812.)
In all, after considering the
parties’ papers and reviewing the pleadings, the Court finds it proper to enter
an order quashing the subpoenas except as to the following document
requests:
3, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 16, 20,
21, 22, and 23.
The Court finds these requests are appropriately limited in
scope, reasonably calculated to lead to admissible evidence as they relate to alter
ego and compensatory damages, and tailored to protect Rafipoor’s right to
privacy in his financial records. The Court does not order any documents relating
solely to punitive damages. The documents may be produced pursuant to a protective
order, and if none has yet been signed, the Court will sign an order based on
the model protective order posted on the court’s website at lacourt.org, civil
division section, Tools for Litigators.
Conclusion
The Motion to Quash is GRANTED IN PART as follows. 
 
Nonparties Baker Tilly US, LLP and Nano Banc are ordered to produce documents only
to the following document requests:
3, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 16, 20,
21, 22, and 23.
 
At Cross-Defendants’ election, the
documents may be produced pursuant to a protective order, and if none has yet
been signed, the Court will sign an order based on the model protective order
posted on the court’s website at lacourt.org, civil division section, Tools for
Litigators page.
 
All other requests for production
in Defendant and Cross-Complainant
Runway Owner, LLC’s subpoenas are quashed. 