 Case Number:  22STCV26036    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposing and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
August 11, 2022, Plaintiff Eduardo D. Sandoval (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants PJ Equipment Rental (“PJ Equipment”) and Does 1-50 for
general negligence and premises liability. 
On
June 20, 2023, PJ Equipment filed an answer. 
On
November 27, 2023, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Lowers
Welding & Fabrication, Inc. (“Lowers Welding”) as Doe 1.  
On
January 2, 2024, Lowers Welding, specially appearing, filed a motion to quash service
on Doe defendant and to strike Doe amendment be heard on February 2, 2024.  On January 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition.  (The Court exercises its
discretion to consider the late-filed opposition.)  On January 26, 2024, Lowers Welding filed a
reply.  On January 29, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a response to Lowers Welding’s reply. 
On January
22, 2023, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Lowers
Properties, LLC (“Lowers Properties”) as Doe 2. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for June 7, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Lowers
Welding asks the Court to quash service of process and strike the Doe amendment
from the complaint. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE 
          The Court grants Lowers Welding’s request for judicial
notice of documents in the Court’s file. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
“A defendant, on or before the last day of his or her
time to plead or within any further time that the court may for good cause
allow, may serve and file a notice of motion for one or more of the following
purposes: 
“(1) To quash service of summons on the ground of lack
of jurisdiction of the court over him or her.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10.
subd. (a)(1).) 
A
defendant may file a motion to quash service of summons on the ground that the
court lacks jurisdiction over the defendant. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd. (a).) A motion made under section
418.10 does not constitute an appearance unless a court denies the motion.  (See L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) (Cal. Practice Guide) ¶
3:376, p. 3-116 [“If the motion is denied, defendant is deemed to have made a
general appearance – waiving any jurisdictional objection – upon entry of the
order denying the motion” (emphasis omitted)].) 
“
‘Although a proper basis for personal jurisdiction exists and notice is given
in a manner which satisfied the constitutional requirements of due process,
service of summons is not effective and the court does not acquire jurisdiction
of the party unless the statutory requirements for service of summons are met.’
” (Engebretson & Co. v. Harrison (1981) 125 Cal.App.3d 436, 443 (Engebretson),
quoting Schering Corp. v. Superior Court (1975) 52 Cal.App.3d 737, 741.)  
DISCUSSION 
“Designating
a defendant by a fictitious name is proper only if plaintiff is genuinely
ignorant of the defendant’s true name or the facts rendering defendant liable
when the complaint was filed.”  (Cal. Practice
Guide, supra, ¶ 6:80, p. 6-26.)  “
‘The test is whether, at the time the complaint was filed, the plaintiff was
ignorant of the facts giving [her] a cause of action against the person.  The focus is on the facts that the plaintiff knew,
not on whether the plaintiff subjectively knew she had a cause of action based
on those facts,’ and there is no duty to exercise reasonable diligence to
obtain those facts.”  (Id. at pp.
6-26 to 6-27, quoting Hahn v. New York Air Brake LLC (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th
895, 899-900, internal quotes and citations omitted, brackets in original,
emphasis omitted.) 
“Because
plaintiffs have up to 3 years in which to serve summons [citations], naming Doe
defendants effectively enlarges the statute of limitations period as to unknown
defendants for the 3-year period.” (Cal.
Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 6:80.1, p. 6-27.) 
Lowers
Welding asserts that Plaintiff did not properly serve it as a Doe defendant,
and Plaintiff’s claims against Lowers Welding are time-barred, because
Plaintiff was not genuinely ignorant of Lowers Welding’s identity when
Plaintiff filed his complaint.  According
to Lowers Welding, Plaintiff must have known that Lowers Welding owned or
controlled the premises where he was injured because the company’s name is
written on the walls of the premises. 
Plaintiff
responds that after the accident, no one told him that Lowers Welding controlled
the premises or the steel beams located on the premises, one of which struck
and injured Plaintiff.  As noted above, Plaintiff
had no duty to ascertain these facts. 
Lowers
Welding has not shown that Plaintiff knew of facts giving him a cause of action
against Lowers Welding when he filed his complaint.  The Court denies the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES Defendant Lowers Welding & Fabrication, Inc.’s motion to quash
service of summons on Doe defendant 1 and to strike Doe amendment. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.