 Case Number:  23TRCV04108    Hearing Date:   July 19, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 July 19, 2024
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV04108
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Sedgwick Claims
Management, Inc. v. City of Los Angeles, et al. 

¿¿¿ ¿¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Intervenor, Pablo Sierra 
 
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiff, Sedgwick Claims
Management, Inc. or Defendant, City of Los Angeles (No Opposition Filed) 
 
TRIAL DATE:                         Not Set. 
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion of Pablo Sierra
for Leave to Intervene  
¿¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED.
 
¿¿ 
 
 
¿¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
On December 8, 2023,
Plaintiff, Sedgwick Claims Management, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint
against Defendants, City of Los Angeles, and DOES 1 through 50. The complaint
is for reimbursement for workers’ compensation expenditures. Plaintiff’s
complaint contends that Plaintiff is a third party administrator for workers’
compensation benefits paid under a policy of insurance issued to Total Airport
Services, Inc. (“insured”) by Starr Indemnity & Liability Company.
(Complaint, ¶ 1.) Plaintiff contends that it is obligated to pay workers’ compensation
benefits to employees of insured, including Pablo Sierra. (Complaint, ¶
1.) Plaintiff alleges that at all times relevant, specifically December 8,
2022, Plaintiff expended benefits to and on behalf of the insured’s employee,
injured worker Pablo Sierra, for workers’ compensation claims. 
 
On
December 8, 2022, Plaintiff contends that Pablo Sierra was in the course and
scope of his employment with the aforementioned insured when his vehicle was at
a stop sign and Defendants garbage truck turned in front of Plaintiff’s
insured’s vehicle, hitting the front end of the vehicle and causing injuries to
said employee. Plaintiff alleges that as a result of Defendant’s negligence,
Plaintiff became obligated to pay and did pay workers’ compensation benefits to
and on behalf of Pablo Sierra in the total sum of $24,584.64 and continuing,
and Plaintiff will become obligated to pay further benefits in sums not yet
fully determined for medical treatment and medical liens which will be
specified by amendment when determined or proved. As such, Plaintiff is seeking
reimbursement of benefits paid and payable to and on behalf of Pablo Sierra. 
Now,
Pablo Sierra seeks to intervene in the action. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On June 24, 2024, Intervenor, Pablo
Sierra filed this Motion for Leave to Intervene. To date, no opposition has
been filed.  
 
¿II. ANALYSIS¿¿ 
 
A.    Legal Standard 
 
 “A nonparty shall petition the court for leave to
intervene by noticed motion or ex parte application.  The petition shall
include a copy of the proposed complaint in intervention or answer in
intervention and set forth the grounds upon which intervention rests.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 387(c).) 
 
“The court shall, upon timely application, permit a nonparty
to intervene in the action or proceeding if either of the following conditions
is satisfied: 
 
(A)¿A
provision of law confers an unconditional right to intervene. 
(B)¿The
person seeking intervention claims an interest relating to the property or
transaction that is the subject of the action and that person is so situated
that the disposition of the action may impair or impede that person’s ability
to protect that interest, unless that person’s interest is adequately
represented by one or more of the existing parties.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
387(d)(1).) 
 
Where an employer brings an action for damages proximately
caused by a third person, an employer who pays or becomes obligated to pay
compensation, or who pays, or becomes obligated to pay salary in lieu of
compensation, may likewise make a claim or bring an action against the third
person.  (Lab. Code, § 3852.)  “[T]he employer may recover in the
same suit, in addition to the total amount of compensation, damages for which
he or she was liable including all salary, wage, pension, or other emolument
paid to the employee or to his or her dependents.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“A workers’ compensation carrier is authorized to attempt
recovery of benefits paid either through the maintenance of an independent
action (Lab. Code, § 3852), intervention in the employee’s action (Lab. Code, §
3853), or assertion of lien rights in the employee’s recovery (Lab. Code, §
3856, subd. (b).)”  (Catello v. I.T.T. General Controls (1984) 152
Cal.App.3d 1009, 1015, fn. 7.) When the action is initiated by the
employer, the employee may, at any time before trial on the facts, join as a
party plaintiff or shall consolidate his action, if brought independently.
(Lab. Code, § 3853.)
 
If leave to intervene is granted by the court, the
intervenor shall separately file the complaint in intervention and serve notice
of the court’s decision” to parties who have appeared. (Code Civ. Proc. §
387(e).) 
 
 
B.     Discussion 
 
            Here,
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure, section 387, subdivision (d)(1)(A), the
law confers an unconditional right as to Pablo Sierra intervening in this
action based on Labor Code, section 3853. Intervenor contends that upon
retaining his own counsel to recover his own personal injury damages, Mr.
Sierra was unaware of who owned the garbage truck which crashed into his
vehicle. As such, Intervenor’s counsel began an investigation as to the proper
Defendants to sue were. Prior to making his own suit, Intervenor notes that
counsel for Plaintiff contacted Intervenor’s counsel and made them aware of
Plaintiff’s complaint. Intervenor’s counsel met and conferred with Plaintiff’s
counsel to determine whether it would be opposed to Mr. Sierra intervening into
this action. Plaintiff indicated no opposition. 
 
            This
Court notes that while the one-year statute of limitations governs both
employee’s and employer’s suit against a third party, Plaintiff filed this suit
within the one-year statute of limitations, and an employer or employee who has
an unconditional right to intervene may intervene in the other’s lawsuit at any
time prior to trial on the facts, and thereby avoid the one-year statute of
limitations. (O’Dell v. Freightliner Corp. (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 645,
654.) 
 
            Here,
because Plaintiff filed within the one-year statute of limitations period, and
because Intervenor is seeking intervention prior to trial on the facts, and
also holds an unconditional right to intervene, Intervenor’s motion is GRANTED.

 
III. CONCLUSION 
 
For
the foregoing reasons, Intervenor, Pablo Sierra’s Motion to Intervene is
GRANTED.  
 
            Intervenor is ordered to give
notice. 
 
 