 Case Number:  23TRCV04190    Hearing Date:   July 19, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 July 19, 2024¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV04190
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Collin
J. Burt v. US Bank, Clarisa Espinoza, et al. 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                (1) Defendant, U.S. Bank National
Association (erroneously sued as US Bank), and Clarisa Espinoza  
                                                (2) Defendant U.S.
Bank National Association
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       (1) Plaintiff, Collin J. Burt 
                                                (2) Plaintiff,
Collin J. Burt
                                                
TRIAL DATE:                        None
set.  
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Defendant’s U.S. Bank National Association, and Clarisa
Espinoza’s Demurrer¿ 
                                                (2)
Defendant U.S. Bank National Association’s Motion to Deem Requests for
Admission as Admitted 
                                                (3)
Defendant U.S. Bank National Association’s Request for Monetary Sanctions
¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) SUSTAINED
                                                (2)
GRANTED
                                                (3)
DENIED without prejudice. 
 
 
 
 
¿¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿ 
On
December 20, 2023, Plaintiff, Collin J. Burt (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint
against Defendants, U.S. Bank National Association (erroneously sued as US
Bank), and Clarisa Espinoza. The Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1)
Common Counts; (2) Intentional Tort- Grand Larceny; and (3) Motor Vehicle
Negligence. 
 
On
March 8, 2024, this Court sustained Defendants’ demurrer to the original
complaint with leave to amend. 
 
Instead
of filing a substantively amended complaint, on May 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
Amendment to the Complaint as to an alleged fictitious/incorrect name. 
 
Now,
Defendants, U.S. Bank National Association and Clarisa Espinoza (collectively,
“Defendants”) file a Demurrer to that pleading. 
 
Further,
Defendants assert that Defendant, U.S. Bank National Association (“USBNA”)
served Requests for Admission, Set One upon Plaintiff on February 7, 2024.
USBNA notes that the responses were due on or before March 13, 2024. To date,
USBNA asserts that it has not received any response to its Requests for
Admission, Set One. As such, USBNA brings forth this motion to deem requests
for admission as admitted. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
On June 20, 2024, Defendants
filed their demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint. On June 24, 2024, Plaintiff
filed an opposition brief. To date, no reply brief has been filed. 
 
Also, on June 20, 2024,
Defendant, USBNA filed its Motion to Deem Requests for Admission as Admitted.
On June 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief. To date, no reply brief
has been filed. 
 
II. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Demurrer

 
i.                   
Legal Standard 
¿ 
A demurrer can be used only to challenge
defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters
outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only
allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that
might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A.
v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City
Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab
Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A pleading is uncertain if it is
ambiguous or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer
for uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders
the complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to
respond to.¿ (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed,
even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can
be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of
California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)¿¿ 
 
 
 
ii.                 
Discussion
 
Preliminarily, this Court notes that granted Plaintiff leave to
amend his complaint, it was because this Court sustained Defendants’ demurrer
signaling that Plaintiff’s allegations in his complaint were insufficient to
state causes of action against Defendants. Clarifying that Defendant USBNA’s
name should be changed from “US Bank” to “U.S. Bank National Association,” does
not change the fact that the substantive allegations in the complaint are
insufficient. 
 
Common
Counts 
 
Previously, this Court held that Plaintiff’s first cause of
action for common counts was insufficient because Plaintiff failed to allege
any fact, reasonable inferences, or anything to successfully allege a cause of
action for common counts. This Court acknowledged that Plaintiff used the form
pleading as his complaint, and checked off the required boxed, but included
nothing in the complaint itself to assist the Court, or Defendants, in
ascertaining what it was that Plaintiff is alleging indebtedness for. Because
Plaintiff only amending the complaint to correct the name of Defendant USBNA,
this Court finds that the allegations are still insufficient to maintain a
cause of action for common counts. 
 
This Court thus, SUSTAINS demurrer. Plaintiff will be required
to present oral argument on how he plans to amend a pleading in the future in
order to convince this Court to allow him leave to amend yet again. 
 
Intentional
Tort - Grand Theft 
 
Next, this Court noted in its previous minute order that Plaintiff’s
second cause of action for intentional tort – grand theft failed because
Plaintiff failed to allege any facts to base its cause of action on, and did
not include any allegations alleging which part of the statute Plaintiff was
alleging defendants violated or what conduct was committed by Defendants such
as the personal property or other thing Plaintiff is alleging Defendants took
to amount to grand theft, etc.. Again, because Plaintiff’s only amendment to
the complaint was changing “US Bank” to “U.S. Bank National Association,
Plaintiff failed to amend his complaint to cure the deficiencies identified by
this Court during the previous hearing on demurrer. 
 
Thus, the demurrer is SUSTAINED. Plaintiff will be required to
present oral argument on how he plans to amend a pleading in the future in
order to convince this Court to allow him leave to amend yet again. 
 
Motor
Vehicle Negligence 
 
Lastly, this Court previously held that Plaintiff’s third cause
of action for motor vehicle negligence failed to allege any facts that
satisfied the elements required to state a negligence cause of action. This
Court took time to instruct the Plaintiff that he may not merely state
conclusory elements of a cause of action for negligence, and instead, that
Plaintiff would be required to allege facts that speak to the existence of a
legal duty of care, breach of that duty, proximate cause, and damages. As with
the causes of action above, because Plaintiff’s only amendment to the complaint
was changing “US Bank” to “U.S. Bank National Association, Plaintiff failed to
amend his complaint to cure the deficiencies in the negligence cause of action
identified by this Court during the previous hearing on demurrer. 
 
Thus, the demurrer is SUSTAINED. Plaintiff will be required to
present oral argument on how he plans to amend a pleading in the future in
order to convince this Court to allow him leave to amend yet again. 
 
B.     Motion to Deem Requests for Admission Admitted 
 
                                           
i.           
Legal Standard 
A party must respond to
interrogatories within 30 days after service. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260,
subd. (a).) If a party to whom interrogatories are directed does not provide
timely responses, the requesting party may move for an order compelling responses
to the discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) The party also
waives the right to make any objections, including one based on privilege or
work-product protection. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) There is no
time limit for a motion to compel responses to interrogatories other than the
cut-off on hearing discovery motions 15 days before trial. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2024.020, subd. (a); Code Civ. Proc., 2030.290.) No meet and confer efforts are
required before filing a motion to compel responses to the discovery. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.290; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific
Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 411
Further, where there has been no timely response to a Code
of Civil Procedure § 2031.010 demand, the demanding party must seek an order
compelling a response. (CCP § 2031.300.) Failure to timely respond waives all
objections, including privilege and work product. Thus, unless the party to
whom the demand was directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise
objections to the documents demanded. There is no deadline for a motion to
compel responses. Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not
attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the motion. Where the
motion seeks only a response to the inspection demand, no showing of "good
cause" is required. 
 
                                         
ii.           
Discussion
Here, Defendant USBNA asserts that on February
7, 2024, it propounded Requests for Admission, Set One on Plaintiff, and that
to date, Plaintiff has failed to respond. As such, the motion to deem requests
for admission is GRANTED. 
Although Plaintiff’s opposition brief is
entitled: “Notice of Opposition: Request for Admission,” the substance of the
opposition appears to be arguing against the demurrer, not the motion to deem
requests for admission as admitted. 
            Without a showing that Plaintiff has
potentially late-served his responses, this Court GRANTS USBNA’s motion.  The Court will consider permitting Plaintiff
to serve Code-compliant responses without objections to the RFA’s, such as
“Admit” or “Deny” or “Plaintiff lacks sufficient facts to admit or deny,”  by August 2, 2024 with a verification under
penalty of perjury.  The Court will hear
oral argument from Plaintiff as to whether that alternative ruling would be his
preference.
                                       
iii.           
Sanctions
            Code of Civil
Procedure § 2023.030(a) provides, in pertinent part, that the court may impose
a monetary sanction on a party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process
to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone
because of that conduct.  Misuse of discovery includes “failing to respond
or submit to an authorized method of discovery.”  (Code Civ. Proc.
§¿2023.010(d)). 
 
            Along with USBNA’s Motion to Deem Requests for Admission,
Set One as admitted, USBNA also included a Request for Monetary Sanctions in
the amount of $1,404. This amount is based on counsel for USBNA’s attorney’s
hourly rate of $240, spending 4.1 hours preparing the notice, motion,
declaration, exhibits, and proposed order, a projected 1 hour to review the
opposition and preparing the reply brief, a $60 filing fee, and an expected 0.5
hours to attend the hearing. (Declaration of Emily E. Howe (“Howe Decl.”), ¶¶
7(a)-(d).) 
 
            This Court notes that 4.1 hours is excessive to prepare a
standard motion to compel. As such, if this Court was granting USBNA’s request
for monetary sanctions, the amount would be awarded in a lesser amount.
However, this Court notes that the granting of a motion to deem RFAs admitted is
typically devastating to Plaintiff’s entire action. The Requests for Admission
that this Court is tentatively inclined to deem as admitted are nearly
tantamount to a motion to dismiss Plaintiff’s claim against USBNA, and thus
this Court denies USBNA’s request for monetary sanctions, without prejudice to
be reasserted if and when Plaintiff seeks relief from the deemed
admissions.   However, if Plaintiff opts
to serve Code-compliant and verified responses to the RFA’s as suggested as an
alternative, the Court would be inclined to order the payment of a small amount
of monetary sanctions that the amount requested.   
¿ 
 