 Case Number:  23TRCV02361    Hearing Date:   July 19, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 July 19, 2024
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV02361
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Yadira Coleman v.
Aryana Hearod, et al.  
¿¿¿ ¿¿¿ 
ATTORNEY NAME:             Defendants, Aryana Hearod and Devine
Drip Beauty Bar dba Devine Fram eNatural Spa, LLC’s attorneys, James J. Kjar,
Esq. & Kylie Schofield, Esq. 
 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not
Set. 
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to be Relieved as Counsel 
¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) CONTINUED.  No
confirmation of current address nor Proof of Service of the Moving papers have
been filed 
 
 
I.                   
Background  
 
On
July 20, 2023, Plaintiff, Yadira Coleman (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint
against Defendants, Devine Drip Beauty Bar dba Devine Frame Natural Spa, LLC,
Ariyana Hearod (collectively, “Defendants”), and DOES 1 through 100. The
complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Premises Liability; (2) General
Negligence; and (3) products Liability. 
 
On
June 18, 2024, Defendants’ attorneys, James J. Kjar, Esq. and Kylie Schofield,
Esq., (“Kjar” and “Schofield”) filed a Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for
Defendants.
 
Currently, trial has not yet been set. 
 
II.                
Legal Standard & Discussion  
 
Code of Civil Procedure § 284 states that
“the attorney in an action…may be changed at any time before or after judgment
or final determination, as follows: (1) upon the consent of both client and
attorney…; (2) upon the order of the court, upon the application of either
client or attorney, after notice from one to the other.”  (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 284; CRC 3.1362.)  The withdrawal request may be denied if it would
cause an injustice or undue delay in proceeding; but the court's discretion in
this area is one to be exercised reasonably.  (See Mandell v. Superior
(1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 1, 4; Lempert¿v. Superior Court (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1161, 1173.) 
 
In making a motion to be relieved as
counsel, the attorney must comply with procedures set forth in Cal. Rules of
Court 3.1362.  The motion must be made using mandatory forms: Notice of
Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel directed to the client – Civil
(MC-051); Declaration “stating in general terms and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship” reasons the motion was
brought (MC-052); and a Proposed Order (MC-053).  (Ibid.)  The
forms must be filed and served on all parties who have appeared in the
case.  (Ibid.) 
 
Here, Defendants’ attorneys,
Kjar and Schofield, move the Court to relieve them as attorneys of record for Defendants.
Kjar and Schofield properly filed a Notice of Motion, Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel, Declaration, and Proposed Order in accordance with Cal. Rules of Court
3.1362. On June 18, 2024, all forms for the pending motion were served on Defendants
personally. Kjar and Schofield indicate that proofs of service will be filed
with this Court five (5) days prior to the hearing, but as to the day before
the hearing the Court does to see any such document. Further, the attorneys
indicate that the have been unable to confirm that Defendants’ address is
current despite making the following efforts: (a) mailing the motion papers to
the client’s last known address, return receipt requested; (b) calling the client’s
last known telephone number or numbers; (c) contacting persons familiar with
the client; and (d) conducting a search for the business address on the
California Secretary of State’s website. Further, the documents were served
with this Court on June 18, 2024
 
In the declaration, Kjar and
Schofield note that: “There has been a fundamental breakdown in the
attorney-client relationship which makes it impossible to continue to represent
the clients in this matter. Under the circumstances, [Kjar and Schofield]
believe it is in the best interest of all concerned to terminate the
attorney-client relationship with the clients and [Kjar and Schofield’s] firm.
In [their] judgment, [their] ethical responsibilities preclude [them] with
providing ay additional details. However, [Kjar and Schofield note] should
[this] Court desire further information, [they] will attempt to provide it in a
matter consistent with ethical considerations.” Kjar and Schofield note that
“[t]rial in this matter is not currently set. Therefore, [they assert]
withdrawal from this matter would not be prejudicial to the[ir] clients’ claims
or plaintiff’s.”
 
Since Defendants’ attorneys have
complied with most procedural requirements in filing a motion to be relieved as
counsel, but a critical one is missing – confirming the client’s current
address and serving him with the motion papers __  the Court intends to continue the hearing to
a future date certain sufficient to enable the moving counsel to satisfy those
prerequisites.   
 
 
 