 Case Number:  22STCV29914    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




fernando lara

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
kaiser foundation health
   plan, inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV29914




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


May
   31, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  defendants’
  demurrer to second amended complaint
(2)  
  defendants’
  motion to strike portions of second amended complaint
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:              Defendants Kaiser Foundation
Health Plan, Inc., Kaiser Foundation Hospitals (erroneously sued as Kaiser
Permanente Panorama City Medical Center and Kaiser Permanente Palmdale Medical
Center), and Southern California Permanente Medical Group                      
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Fernando Lara
(1)  
Demurrer
to Second Amended Complaint
(2)  
Motion
to Strike Portions of Second Amended Complaint
The court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in
connection with the demurrer and motion to strike. 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Fernando Lara, an
incompetent individual, by and through his Guardian ad Litem Sandra J. Carlisle
(“Plaintiff”) filed the operative Second Amended Complaint in this action on
November 14, 2023, against defendants Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc.,
Kaiser Foundation Hospitals, Southern California Permanente Medical Group,
Kaiser Permanente Panorama City Medical Center, and Kaiser Permanente Palmdale
Medical Center.  Plaintiff alleges four
causes of action for (1) professional negligence, (2) dependent adult abuse,
(3) fraud (misrepresentation), and (4) fraud (concealment). 
Defendants Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc., Kaiser Foundation
Hospitals (erroneously sued as Kaiser Permanente Panorama City Medical Center
and Kaiser Permanente Palmdale Medical Center), and Southern California
Permanente Medical Group (“Defendants”) now move the court for an order (1)
sustaining their demurrer to Plaintiff’s second, third, and fourth causes of
action, and (2) striking from the Second Amended Complaint Plaintiff’s requests
for treble damages, attorney’s fees, and punitive damages.
DEMURRER
The court overrules
Defendants’ demurrer to the second cause of action for dependent adult abuse /
neglect because it states facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action
since Plaintiff has alleged, with sufficient particularity, facts establishing
that (1) Plaintiff is a dependent adult (SAC ¶¶ 1, 32, 43); (2) Defendants were
Plaintiff’s care custodians beginning on or about January 10, 2022, continuing
through the present, and therefore had responsibility for meeting the basic
needs of Plaintiff  (SAC ¶¶ 33, 36, 41);
(3) Defendants knew that Plaintiff required special equipment, care and
attention due to his recent hospitalization, surgery and disabilities (SAC ¶
42); (4) Defendants denied or withheld services necessary to meet Plaintiff’s
needs by  (i) failing to change
Plaintiff’s diaper, causing him to suffer diaper rash, (ii) failing to provide
to Plaintiff ice chips, water, and food, thereby causing him to suffer
malnutrition, (iii) failing to change Plaintiff’s medical gowns after they
became soiled with vomit, and (iv) disconnecting Plaintiff’s staff call button
at night so as to prevent Plaintiff from requesting, and to prevent Defendants
from providing, other necessary services (SAC ¶ 44); (5) in withholding these
necessary services, Defendants knew that injury was substantially certain to
befall Plaintiff (SAC ¶ 44), and Defendants’ senior management further implemented
a plan to increase their business profits by understaffing, undersupplying, and
under-equipping supplies (SAC ¶¶ 50, 63), which caused Defendants’ staff to
withhold necessary goods and services to patients such as Plaintiff (SAC ¶¶
51-52); and (6) Defendants caused Plaintiff harm (e.g., causing Plaintiff to
suffer diaper rash and malnutrition) (SAC ¶ 44).  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Wel.
& Inst. Code, § 15610.57, subds. (a)(1), (b)(1) [neglect includes failure
to assist in personal hygiene, or in the provision of food and clothing], (b)(4)
[neglect includes failure to prevent malnutrition or dehydration]; Carter v.
Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 406-407
[elements of cause of action for neglect within the meaning of the Elder Abuse
and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act].)  Plaintiff has also alleged that the conduct set
forth above was engaged in and/or ratified by high level managerial agents,
which the court interprets to include Defendants’ “managing agent[s]” within
the meaning of Civil Code section 3294. 
(Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (b); Wel. & Inst. Code, § 15657, subd. (c)
[“The standards set forth in subdivision (b) of Section 3294 of the Civil Code
regarding the imposition of punitive damages on an employer based upon the acts
of an employee shall be satisfied before any damages or attorney’s fees
permitted under this section may be imposed against an employer”].) 
The court notes that
Defendants have argued, in their demurrer, that Plaintiff has inconsistently alleged
both that he is a dependent adult (SAC ¶¶ 1, 32, 43) and that, at the time of
his injuries, he was gainfully employed (SAC ¶ 58).  (Dem., p. 5:24-26.)  However, Defendants have not shown that a
dependent adult cannot be employed. 
Moreover, the court must accept as true Plaintiff’s allegations that (1)
he “is an incompetent and dependent adult due to congenital disorders” (SAC ¶
1), and (2) he has “physical or mental limitations that restricted his ability
to carry out normal activities, or to protect his or her rights, including, but
not limited to, physical or development disabilities” (SAC ¶ 32).  (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185
Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078 [“a demurrer accepts as true all well pleaded facts”].)  
The court sustains Defendants’
demurrer to the third cause of action for fraud (misrepresentation) because it
does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action since Plaintiff
has not alleged, with sufficient particularity, facts establishing the element
of misrepresentation, including when the subject misrepresentation(s) were
made, by whom, and by what means the misrepresentation(s) were tendered.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); SAC ¶
69 [alleging generally that Plaintiff relied on the misrepresentation that
Defendants were able to provide Plaintiff with the care and treatment he
required]; Aton Center, Inc. v. United Healthcare Ins. Co. (2023) 93
Cal.App.5th 1214, 1245 [elements of cause of action for intentional
misrepresentation]; Lauckhart v. El Macero Homeowners Assn. (2023) 92
Cal.App.5th 889, 903 [“Fraud must be pleaded with particularity.  General and conclusory allegations are
inadequate”], 904.)
The court overrules Defendants’
demurrer to the fourth cause of action for fraud (concealment) because it states
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action since Plaintiff has alleged facts
establishing that (1) Defendants intended to defraud Plaintiff by intentionally
concealing their understaffing levels and their ability to care for Plaintiff
(SAC ¶¶ 91, 89) in order to induce Plaintiff to remain at Kaiser Permanente
(SAC ¶ 94) and to allow Defendants to bill for and collect payments for
services that were not rendered (SAC ¶ 95), and (2) Plaintiff sustained damage
as a result of Defendants’ concealment, including because, had he not entered
or remained at Kaiser Permanente, he would not have sustained the injuries and
damages alleged (e.g., diaper rash and malnutrition) (SAC ¶¶ 97, 44).  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e);
Demurrer, p. 13:7-18 [challenging only the elements of intent and causation]; Hambrick
v. Healthcare Partners Medical Group, Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 124, 162
[elements of cause of action for fraudulent concealment].) 
MOTION TO STRIKE
Defendants move the court for an order striking the following from
Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint: (1) the prayer for punitive damages
(Prayer, ¶ 6) and supporting allegations or requests as set forth in portions
of paragraphs 27, 52, subdivisions (a)-(k), 53, subdivisions (a)-(l), 56, 62, 63,
64, 83, 84, 105; (2) the prayer for attorney’s fees (Prayer, ¶ 5) and
supporting allegations or requests as set forth in paragraphs 82, 84, 104, and
106; (3) the requests for treble damages as set forth in paragraphs 63, 82, 84,
104, and 106; and (4) the prayer for costs of litigation pursuant to Welfare
and Institutions Code section 15657 (Prayer, ¶ 4).
First, the court denies as moot Defendants’ motion to strike
paragraphs 83-84 because those paragraphs were alleged in support of the third
cause of action for fraud misrepresentation, to which the court has sustained
Defendants’ demurrer for the reasons set forth above. 
Second, the court denies Defendants’ motion to strike the requests for
punitive damages and supporting allegations because Plaintiff has alleged facts
establishing that (1) Defendants were guilty of oppression, malice, and fraud
(SAC ¶¶ 44 95-96), and (2) Defendants’ authorization, ratification, or act of
oppression, malice, or fraud was on the part of a managing agent of Defendants
(SAC ¶¶ 50, 64, 105).  (Code Civ. Proc., §
436; Civ. Code, § 3294, subds. (a), (b).)
Third, the court denies Defendants’ motion to strike the requests for
attorney’s fees and costs under the Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act because the court has
determined, for the reasons set forth in connection with the ruling on
Defendants’ demurrer, that Plaintiff has pleaded facts sufficient to constitute
a cause of action for neglect under that statute, such that his requests for
relief thereunder are not improper or irrelevant.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) 
            Fourth, the court denies Defendants’
motion to strike the requests for treble damages because Defendants did not
present argument establishing that Plaintiff is not entitled to treble damages
pursuant to Civil Code section 3345 in their motion, and therefore have not met
their burden to show that such requests are irrelevant, false, improper, or not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or
order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
436.)
ORDER
            The court overrules defendants
Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc., Kaiser Foundation Hospitals (erroneously
sued as Kaiser Permanente Panorama City Medical Center and Kaiser Permanente
Palmdale Medical Center), and Southern California Permanente Medical Group’s
demurrer to plaintiff Fernando Lara’s second and fourth causes of action. 
The court sustains defendants Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc.,
Kaiser Foundation Hospitals (erroneously sued as Kaiser Permanente Panorama
City Medical Center and Kaiser Permanente Palmdale Medical Center), and
Southern California Permanente Medical Group’s demurrer to plaintiff Fernando
Lara’s third cause of action for fraud (misrepresentation). 
            The court denies defendants Kaiser
Foundation Health Plan, Inc., Kaiser Foundation Hospitals (erroneously sued as
Kaiser Permanente Panorama City Medical Center and Kaiser Permanente Palmdale
Medical Center), and Southern California Permanente Medical Group’s motion to
strike.
The court grants plaintiff Fernando Lara 20 days leave to file a Third
Amended Complaint that cures the defects in the third cause of action set forth
in this ruling.
            The court orders plaintiff Fernando
Lara to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  May 31, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court