 Case Number:  23SMCV05806    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Cienega
Ventures LLC v. 730 N. La Cienega LLC, et al.
CASE NO.:                23SMCV05806
MOTION:                  Motion
for Stay of Proceedings
HEARING DATE:   4/26/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
“Trial courts generally have the inherent
power to stay proceedings in the interests of justice and to promote judicial
efficiency.” (Freiberg v. City of Mission Viejo (1995) 33 Cal.
App. 4th 1484, 1489.) The trial court has the authority to control litigation
before it in order to ensure the orderly administration of justice. (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 128, 187; Rutherford v. Owens-Illinois, Inc. (1997)
16 Cal.4th 953, 967 [“It is also well established that courts have fundamental
inherent equity, supervisory, and administrative powers, as well as inherent
power to control litigation before them.”].)
 
Analysis
 
Defendants 730 N. La Cienega, LLC,
Koi LP, Nick Haque, 734 LCB, LLC, and Koi Group, Inc. move to stay this fraudulent
transfer action pending the resolution of the earlier-filed rent recovery
action, Cienega Ventures, LLC v. 730 N. La Cienega, LLC, et al., LASC Case No.
22SMCV000063. Defendant argues that the fraudulent transfer action should be stayed
for efficiency’s sake in favor of first resolving the related rent action.
Defendant reasons that this fraudulent transfer action is contingent on the success
of the rent action, since the debt alleged in this matter is the based upon the
underlying rent claim, and thus the outcome of the rent action will moot this transfer
action. Defendant sets forth several scenarios of how the rent action will be dispositive
of this matter, including where there is a judgment in Defendants’
favor, a nominal judgment in Plaintiff’s favor, a ready collection of any
judgment in Plaintiff’s favor, or the settlement of both actions.
 
Defendants’
cited authorities do not support a stay. Generally, courts approve discretionary
stays where the moving party shows some sort of substantial prejudice absent
the stay. (See Montrose Chem. Corp. v. Superior Court, (1993) 6
Cal. 4th 287 [a stay of the declaratory relief action pending resolution of the
third-party suit is appropriate when the insurance coverage question turns on
facts to be litigated in the underlying action and to eliminate the risk of
inconsistent factual determinations that could prejudice the insured]; St.
Paul Fire & Marine Insurance Co. v. AmerisourceBergen Corp., (2022) 80
Cal. App. 5th 1 [trial court had discretion to stay California state action
filed by insurer against insureds on a forum-non-conveniens basis, where
insurer was already a defendant in a four year long complex litigation in West
Virginia state court regarding prescription opioid lawsuits around the country,
where there was overlapping discovery, both cases presented substantially
identical coverage and policy language issues, and the WV court already issued
rulings on such issues]; Haskel, Inc. v. Superior
Court, (1995) 33 Cal. App.4th 963, 978–80 [insured was entitled to stay of discovery
in declaratory relief action, pending a factual determination by the trial court
as to whether any pending discovery by the insurers is so logically related to
the issues in the underlying action that further pursuit of that discovery
would prejudice insured’s interests in that action].) 
 
Here, however, there is no substantial prejudice in proceeding with both
actions simultaneously other than the costs and time involved in litigating two
cases. While the Court has discretion to order a stay, the Court is not
persuaded that a stay would be in the interests of justice or promote
efficiency. Defendants fail to explain how concurrently litigating this action would
substantially prejudice them. Defendant presents only the possibility
that this instant fraudulent transfer action will become moot, either because
of a defense-favorable judgment in the rent action or a global settlement of
both actions. Furthermore, even if this fraudulent transfer action
largely depends on the validity of the rent action, there is still no apparent
risk of factually inconsistent rulings even if the cases are never consolidated.
Therefore, the Court declines to issue a stay.

 
Accordingly, the motion is DENIED.