  Case Number:  20STCV24771    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
(1)   DEFENDANT COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES’
DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFFS’ SIXTH AMENDED COMPLAINT is OVERRULED in part
(i.e., 2nd COA because Plaintiffs have pled a mandatory duty (see
County Manual provisions) and SUSTAINED in part WITHOUT leave to
amend as to the 8th COA. 
 
(2)   DEFENDANT COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES’
MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF PLAINTIFFS’ SIXTH AMENDED COMPLAINT is GRANTED
in part (with leave to amend TBD), MOOT in part (as to the allegations
re: 8th COA) and DENIED in part (as to allegations in 2nd
COA).
 
Background[1]
 
This case
arises from the death of NOAH CUATRO (“Noah”). Plaintiffs EVANGELINA HERNANDEZ
(“Eva”), individually and as Successor in Interest to the Estate of NOAH
CUATRO; A.C. (“AC”), a minor, by and through her Guardian ad Litem, Evangelina
Hernandez; E.C. (“EC”), a minor, by and through his Guardian ad Litem,
Evangelina Hernandez; R.C. (“RC”), a minor, by and through his Guardian ad
Litem, Evangelina Hernandez[2]
allege the following against Defendants COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES (“County”) and
HATHAWAY-SYCAMORES CHILD AND FAMILY SERVICES (“Hathaway-Sycamores” or
“Hathaway”)[3]:
On July 6, 2019, Noah was murdered by his parents, both of whom are awaiting
trial. Noah’s death occurred after
multiple reports of abuse and torture had been made to the Los
Angeles County Department of Children and Family Services ("DCFS"). The allegations against Hathaway
are predicated upon vicarious liability (retaining an unlicensed trainee (Erika
Schreefel (“Schreefel”)) who did not communicate accurate information to the
dependency court (DC) that created the misimpression that Noah and his parents
were progressing towards reunification when in fact the family problems
remained the same or worsened during this time frame) and independent
negligence for its failure to supervise an unlicensed trainee. As for the County’s liability, it is
predicated upon DCFS’s alleged breaches of various duties.  
 
On July 1, 2020, Plaintiffs filed the action. 
 
On June 26, 2023, the County filed a demurrer to the 5AC, which
this court sustained with leave to amend and determined the MTS was moot. 
 
On August 21, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their sixth amended complaint
(6AC) alleging eight causes of action (COA) for: 1.     Wrongful death (Minor
Plaintiffs v. County) 2.     Negligence (Eva v. County) 3.     Wrongful Death (Negligent
retention and supervision) (Eva and Minor Plaintiffs v. County and Hathaway) 4.     Wrongful death (negligence)
(Minor Plaintiffs v. Hathaway) 5.     Survival action (negligence)
(Minor Plaintiffs v. Hathaway) 6.     Survival action (negligence)
(Minor Plaintiffs v. County) 7.     Wrongful death (negligence)
(Minor Plaintiffs v. Doe Defendants) 8.     Negligence (Minor Plaintiffs v.
County)
 
On November 15, 2023, the court heard oral argument on the
demurrer to the 6AC and the MTS, which the court’s tentative was to overrule as
to the 2nd COA and sustain with leave to amend as to the 8th
COA. The court continued the hearing to allow for supplemental briefing as to
both COAs. 
 
On December 15, 2023, the County filed ‘Defendant County Of Los Angeles’
Supplemental Brief In Support Of County’s Demurrer To Second Cause Of Action Of
Plaintiffs’ Sixth Amended Complaint’ (“County Supp. Brief”). That same day,
Plaintiffs filed their ‘Supplemental Memorandum In Opposition To County Of Los
Angeles’ Demurrer To Sixth Amended Complaint And Motion To Strike’
(“Plaintiffs’ Supp. Brief), which focused on the 8th COA and the
MTS. 
 
On January 5,
2024, the county filed its ‘Reply To Plaintiffs’ Supplemental Memorandum In Opposition
To County’s Demurrer To Eighth Cause Of Action Of Plaintiffs’ Sixth Amended
Complaint’ (“County Supp. Reply”). That same day, Plaintiffs filed their
‘Opposition To Supplemental Memorandum Of County Of Los Angeles Re Demurrer To
Sixth Amended Complaint And Motion To Strike’ (“Plaintiffs’ Supp. Reply), which
mainly discussed the 2nd COA. Lastly, also
on 1/5/24, the County filed a ‘Motion To Seal Court Records; Memorandum
Of Points And Authorities In Support Thereof’ (“Motion to Seal”).
 
Request for Judicial Notice
(RJN)
 
The crux of the
2nd COA’s issue is whether a County regulation requires
notice of a removal petition to a relative. Effectively, to adjudicate the
issue, the County Manuel (a matter of public record) must be examined. (See Evi.
Code section 451; Day v. Rosenthal (1985) 170 Cal.App.3d 1125, 1147
[court compelled to take judicial notice of
standards established by Rules of Professional Conduct when considering
attorney's alleged breach of standard of care]; see Quelimane Co. v. Stewart
Title Guaranty Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 46, fn. 9 [“A request for judicial
notice of published material is unnecessary. Citation to the material is
sufficient. We therefore consider the request for judicial notice as a
citation to those materials that are published.”].) 
 
Therefore, though neither party has made a RJN, the court, on its
motion, takes judicial notice of the ‘California Department of Social Services (“CDSS”)
Manual of Policies and Procedures for child welfare services (“County Manual”)
which is available at https://www.cdss.ca.gov/inforesources/letters-regulations/legislation-and-regulations/child-welfare-services-regulations.[4]

 
 
 
 
Discussion[5]
 
A.    2nd COA (Negligence
COA asserted by Eva)
 
As discussed in the court’s 11/15/23 tentative ruling, there are
two ways to assert direct liability against a public entity: (1) identification
of a specific statute or (2) identifying a mandatory duty. The issue here is
whether Plaintiffs have alleged that the County failed to discharge a mandatory
duty. Specifically, Plaintiffs allege that the County breached the following
duties: 
 
1.              
Duty to notify a relative or someone who had previous custody
of the child of dangers facing the child, 
2.              
Duty to notify a relative or someone who had previous custody
of the child regarding a petition for a warrant to remove the child from the
parents’ custody, or
3.              
Duty to notify the relative or someone who had previous
custody of the child of the County’s subsequent decision not to execute the
removal warrant. (6AC ¶117.) 
 
In its 11/15/23 tentative, the court determined that a mandatory
duty was alleged because a CSW testified that “the norm usually” “required the CSW applying for the
removal order to notify parents or relatives, like [Eva], who previously had
custody of the child who is the subject of the petition.” (6AC ¶106.)  
 
In both the hearing and its supplemental brief, the County advanced three rebutting
arguments to the court’s 11/15/23 tentative ruling:
 
i.                
The
CSW’s testimony is insufficient to create a mandatory duty. (See e.g., County’s
Supp. Brief p. 11, Transcript p. 9.)[6]
ii.              
A
policy is not the equivalent of a regulation. (Transcript p. 6:23-24, County’s
Supp. Brief p. 6.)
iii.            
Plaintiffs do not allege “any statute,
or regulation, or even a policy, that imposes a mandatory duty.” (County Supp.
Brief p. 8:10-11.)
 
Viewing the allegations in a
light most favorable to Plaintiffs and bound by the allegations in the 6AC, the
court, nevertheless, determines that, at the pleading stage, Plaintiffs allege
a mandatory duty to assert a negligence COA. 
 
As observed
by the appellate court in County of Los Angeles v. Super. Ct. (2002) 102
Cal.App.4th 627, 639, a mandatory duty is imposed by an enactment. The term
‘enactment’ for purposes of Government Code section 815.6 means a
“constitutional provision, statute, charter provision, ordinance or
regulation.” (Ibid.) In turn, the term ‘regulation’ means “a rule,
regulation, order or standard, having the force of law, adopted ... as a
regulation by an agency of the state pursuant to the Administrative Procedure
Act [Act].” (Ibid.) Without an enactment that requires (obligatory, not
discretionary) that a public agency to take a particular action, there is no
mandatory duty. (See County’s Supp Brief p. 6, quoting Wilson v. County of
San Diego (2001) 91 Cal.app.4th 974, 980, see also Transcript pp.
7-8.)  
 
Here, the court still disagrees with the County
that the County Manual does amount to state regulations. 
 
For one, the
County Manual’s begins by stating that the “Regulations [have been] adopted” by
the Department of Social Services (DSS) and other state departments affecting
DSS programs. (See MANUAL LETTER NO. CWS-93-01, p. 1, available at https://www.cdss.ca.gov/ord/entres/getinfo/pdf/ssman1.pdf.) Indeed, the regulations found
within the County Manual has been adopted by mechanisms prescribed by the Administrative Procedure Act (APA). (See Cal. Code of
Regs., Title 22, Div. 2, Part 1, Department of Social Services—Manuals of
Policies and Procedures; available at https://govt.westlaw.com/calregs/Document/I5BD004906CC111ECAC9ED6A94397B751?viewType=FullText&originationContext=documenttoc&transitionType=CategoryPageItem&contextData=(sc.Default).) In fact, during
the 11/15/23 hearing, the County may have inadvertently admitted the
regulations have been adopted. (See Transcript p. 12:17-20 [“[R]ules and regulations that are binding
statewide.”], emphasis added.) After all, to assume that the County is not
following regulations within the meaning of
Government Code sections 810.6 and 811.6 would entail that the County is
creating and following arbitrary rules, orders, and standards not ensured by
the Office of Administrative Law (OAL). 
 
Second, Thompson v. County of Los Angeles (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th
376, which also relied on the County’s Child Welfare Services Manual of
Policies and Procedure, “assume[d] without deciding that the [provision] [] is
a regulation with legal force.” (Id. at p. 381, citing to Scott v.
County of Los Angeles (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 125, 145.) Thus, even absent
the analysis above, this court, assuming without deciding, deems the County
Manual, which provides regulations, to be regulations within the meaning
of Government Code sections 810.6 and 811.6.
 
Thus, any provision found within the County Manual would suffice
for the imposition of a mandatory duty. And the court’s review of the County Manual provides a duty
to have notified Eva when the dependency court granted the May 15, 2019
petition to remove Noah from his parents’ custody (¶79).[7] The following is taken from Div 31,
Handbook, 1514. thru 366.3. - Child Welfare Services Manual.
 
According to
section 300, a minor who comes within certain descriptions is within the
jurisdiction of the juvenile court which may adjudge that person to be a
dependent child of the court. (Id. at p. 5 of 48 of PDF.) According to
the 6AC, the dependency court deemed Noah a
minor dependent in November 2016 (¶20.) In turn, when a
child is deemed a dependent, sections 361 and 361.2 offers limitations on
parental control, such as ordering for the dependent child’s removal
from parents’ custody. (Id. at p. 16 of 48 of PDF.) Thereafter, the
following regulations are in place: 
 
Where the court has ordered removal of the child from the physical
custody of his or her parents pursuant to Section 361, the court shall consider
whether the family ties and best interest of the minor will be served by
granting visitation rights to the minor's grandparents . . . In any case in
which a child is removed from the physical custody of his or her parents
pursuant to Section 361, preferential consideration shall be given to
a request by a relative of the child for placement of the child
with the relative . . . (c) For purposes of this section: (1)
"Preferential consideration" means that the relative seeking
placement shall be the first placement to be considered and investigated
. . . The county social
worker shall initially contact the relatives given preferential [sic]
consideration for placement to determine if they desire the child to be
placed with them . . . (2) "Relative" means an adult who
is related to the child or the child's half sibling by blood, adoption or
affinity within the fifth degree of kinship, including step-parents,
step-siblings, and all relatives whose status is preceded by the words
"step," "great," "great-great," or
"grand" or the spouse of any such person even if the marriage has
been terminated by death or dissolution. (Id. at pp. 18-21 of 48 of PDF,
emphasis and underline added.)
 
Of import,
aside from Eva, as Noah’s great-grandmother (6AC ¶1) being defined as relative for purposes of
‘Assessment of Preferential Consideration for Relatives’ under the County
Manual, in preparing the
May 2019 petition, Johnson “planned on placing Noah with [Eva] after removal.
Everyone else at DCFS agreed that [Eva] was the best placement for Noah after
removal.” (6AC ¶113; see also ¶112 [“The
dependency court wanted [Eva] to stay involved in the dependency process and to
provide information to the court. DCFS social workers knew this.”].) Consequently,
as Eva was the first placement to considered, the County had various mandatory
obligations, including to contact her of the dependency court’s removal
order, which inherently required notifying her of the petition
and removal order. 
 
To the extent
that the County may argue that the duty to contact regards placement after the
order, not a specific, express, or explicitly duty to contact Eva about the
petition before the order (the latter being the allegation in ¶117), that can be cured with
leave to amend.[8]

 
To the extent
that the County may argue, as it did during the hearing, that “There's a
difference between a warrant being applied for and granted by the Court and a
decision to  execute that warrant which
would trigger, quote, the normal policy of trying to figure out if we're going
to take this child out of the home, where do we place that child,” that is an
argument that is not found within the County Manual. (Transcript p.
14:2-14.)[9]
 
To the extent that the County argues
that notification about the removal would have been immaterial because Noah’s death could not have been prevented (County
Supp. Brief. p. 15:1-5), the
6AC, no matter how impractical or improbable, pleads otherwise, making any
factual determinations about causation improper on a demurrer.[10]
(See 6AC ¶115 [“Had [Eva]
received notice of the petition and a decision not to execute the removal
warrant, she would have informed the dependency court and hired an attorney to
protect her rights and those of Noah’s. DCFS robbed [Eva] the opportunity to
protect her rights and those of Noah’s, leading to his death.”].) 
 
Therefore, since
Eva has pled the existence of a mandatory duty owed to her by the County, the
Demurrer to 2nd COA is OVERRULED. 
 
 
 
 
B.    8th COA
(by Minor Plaintiffs)
 
In the court’s 7/20/23 and 11/15/23
tentative rulings, the
court agreed with the County’s arguments that (1) Minor Plaintiffs are barred
from asserting any claims because they failed to assert claims within six
months of claims rejection(s) and (2) the COA is time barred because it does
not relate back to the original complaint. After all, the court noted that Minor Plaintiffs’
allegations go beyond what Noah experienced—which was the impetus
for this lawsuit—indicating that COAs asserted by Minor Plaintiffs do not
relate to the original complaint. 
 
Now, though
the court offered leave to amend, Plaintiffs merely restate their arguments raised
in opposition to the demurrer to the 6AC, which the court found unhelpful and
unpersuasive. Instead of providing new facts, Plaintiffs argue that the court
has gone beyond the four corners of the complaint by addressing a statute of
limitations defense. Plaintiffs are mistaken, however, as Plaintiffs’
Government Tort Claims is a judicially noticed matter, and a demurrer may be
based upon a SOL defense. 
 
Thus, as
Plaintiffs’ Supplemental Brief does not offer a legal basis to extend the
limitations period which ran July 10, 2020, six months after County’s rejection
of Plaintiffs’ Government Tort Claims which included claims of Minor
Plaintiffs’ own abuse while they lived with Noah and their parents, the court
affirms its reasoning as found in 11/15/23 ruling with respect to the 8th
COA.  
 
Therefore, the court SUSTAINS the
demurrer as to the 8th COA. As for leave to amend, the court
acknowledges that Minor Plaintiffs suffered trauma at the hands of their
parents and will continue to suffer trauma from those events. The court does
not reach its determination to sustain the demurrer lightly. But as Plaintiffs
have been afford previous leave to amend and supplemental briefing yet have not
offered a law that conforms with their facts, leave to amend is
denied. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the demurrer is
OVERRULED as to the 2nd COA and SUSTAINED without leave to amend as
to the 8th COA. 
 
Motion to Strike
 
As to the motion to strike allegations
relating to the Minor Plaintiffs’ 8th COA, that is MOOT, based upon
the court SUSTAINING the demurrer without leave to amend. 
 
As for the motion to strike allegations
of a mandatory duty owed to Eva and a special relationship between the County
and Eva, that is DENIED as the court OVERRULED the demurrer as to the 2nd
COA. 
 
As for Paragraph 175(d) (related to the 8th COA),
that is MOOT as the court SUSTAINED the demurrer w/out motion to strike. 
 
As for
allegations Relating to the Conduct of Noah’s Parents After His Death
(Paragraphs 120-125), the court adheres to its reasoning in the 11/15/23
tentative. The court GRANTS the MTS as to these paragraphs. Leave to amend is
TBD at the conclusion of the hearing. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the
foregoing, the MTS is MOOT in part (as to allegations found within the 8th
COA), DENIED in part (as to allegations in the 2nd COA), and GRANTED
in part (as to allegations regarding the parents’ conduct) with leave to amend
TBD. 
 
 
 


