 Case Number:  22PSCV00888    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
(1)   RKA Consulting Group's Motion For
Reconsideration Regarding The Court's Ruling On Defendant Khatri International,
Inc. And Dilip Mulchand Khatri's Motion For Determination Of Good Faith
Settlement is DENIED, notably as RKA did not produce neither new
facts nor a satisfactory explanation as to why the email(s) were not produced
earlier; thus, the motion must be denied.[1] 
 
(2)   Plaintiffs’ Motion For Terminating And
Monetary Sanctions Against Defendant, Rka Consulting Group, And Its Attorney’s,
Randall F. Koenig And Wilfred A. Llaurado, Pursuant To Ccp Sec. 128.7 In The
Sum Of $5,100 is DENIED, notably as the court did not issue a final
ruling on the GFS motion to state the reason why it reversed its tentative
ruling. 
 
Background[2]
 
This case
pertains to the evacuation of over 150 residents at the condominium units
located at Diamond Bar Village (“DBV”). Plaintiffs, the owners of condominium
units, allege the following against Defendants THE AVALON MANAGEMENT GROUP,
INC. (“Avalon”), a California corporation; DIAMOND BAR VILLAGE ASSOCIATION
(“HOA” or “DBV”), a California nonprofit corporation; LARRY CARMACK, an
individual; JAMES HOPKINS, an individual; KHATRI INTERNATIONAL, INC., a Nevada
corporation and DIPLIP MULCHAND KHATRI, an individual (collectively, “Khatri
Defendants” or “Khatri”); RKA CONSULTING GROUP, a California corporation
(“RKA”); CITY OF DIAMOND BAR, a governmental entity (occasionally referred to
as the “City”): On September 27, 2021, Defendants Avalon and the HOA sent an
e-mail to all the residents and owners of DBV, including Plaintiffs, advising
them for the first time that all the residents may need to evacuate the Subject
Property due to “impending risk to the health and safety of residents from the
roof rafter conditions.” (First Amended Complaint (FAC) ¶75.) The City’s Notice and
Order to Vacate DBV (“Vacate Order”) referenced a 2017 report that found
similar problems with Termite, Dry Rot, and structural damage. However,
Plaintiffs were not informed about the 2017 report; therefore, the first time
Plaintiffs learned of any possible massive evacuation was in 2021. That said,
the Vacate Order was rescinded because on October 25, 2021, Plaintiffs’ own
structural engineer determined that there was no imminent threat of collapse to
the buildings at DBV. Although the Vacate Order had been rescinded by the City,
Plaintiffs still suffered damages because they “had to pay their tenants
relocation fees and lost rent for months . . . and had to live through the
chaos, discomfort, trash being dumped everywhere, the swimming pool being green
and full of mosquitos, the lack of maintenance to the Subject Property, the
news reporters being at the Subject Property, and the threat of fines and
penalties being levied by the City and being arrested by the police for failure
to vacate by October 18, 2021.” (FAC ¶100.) 
 
On August 18, 2022, Plaintiffs filed suit.
 
On November 7, 2023, the court, after taking Khatri’s GFS motion
under submission, issued its final ruling, reversing the tentative ruling to
deny and granting Khatri’s GFS motion.
 
On November 20, 2023, RKA filed the instant motion for
reconsideration.
 
On December 13, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the instant motion for
sanctions.
 
On December 28, 2023, RKA filed its opposition to the motion for
sanctions 
 
On January 4,
2024, Plaintiffs filed their reply in support of the motion for sanctions.
 
On January 8,
2024, Plaintiffs and Khatri filed their separate oppositions to the motion for
reconsideration.
 
On January
12, 2024, RKA filed its separate replies.
 
1.     Motion for Reconsideration 
 
Legal
Standard[3]
 
RKA brings forth the motion pursuant to CCP section 1008 subdivision
(a). (Motion p. 3.) 
 
In short, the statute requires that the
party seeking reconsideration (i) base its motion upon new or different facts,
circumstances, or law and (ii) provide a satisfactory explanation for the
failure to make the showing at or before the time the challenged order was
issued. (See also New York Times Co. v. Sup. Ct. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th
206, 208 (NYT); see also Garcia v. Hejmadi (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th
674, 689.) 
 
Regarding the first prong, information that can easily be
obtained during discovery and that was available to throughout the
discovery process does amount to “new or
different facts, circumstances, or law” that would justify reconsideration. (NYT,
supra, 135 Cal.App.4th at p. 213.) This requirement is not met by arguing
that the matter was merely not “presented” to the court. (Garcia, supra, 58
Cal.App.4th at p. 689.) New evidence that should have been included
and could have been included in a filing is not a proper basis for
reconsideration. (See Khatri Opp. p. 11, citing Morris v. AGFA Corp. (2006)
144 Cal.App.4th 1452, 1460; see also Khatri Opp. p. 11 citing Hennigan v.
White (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 395, 405 [party whose arguments concerned
matter expressly argued in moving papers and matters addressed in opposition
cannot, for purposes of a reconsideration motion, attempt to introduce new evidence].)   
 
Regarding the second prong, the party
making the application shall state by affidavit what application was
made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and
what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008) (emphasis added).[4]
 
Discussion[5]
 
RKA moves the
court for reconsideration of its GFS motion because RKA has located documents “that
were not available until after the motion was fully briefed and considered by
the court” (Motion p. 3:15-17) which set forth new and different facts which
contradict statements made by Khatri. Specifically, the newly found evidence
contradict:
 
(1) Khatri 's statements that the 'green-yellow-red' construct rating
system in his report was not intended to correlate to a municipal entity's
definition of 'red tag' to condemn a building" and 
(2) that Khatri did not participate in a September 29, 2021 Zoom meeting
and, if he did, he did not make any representations as to the urgency to vacate
the building. (Motion p. 1:12-17.) 
 
Here, the motion fails for a variety of reasons. 
 
First, the evidence submitted is irrelevant. 
 
A motion for reconsideration inherently requires the
introduction of new information that would call into question a court’s ruling.[6]
Here, however, the interpretation of the tagging system and whether Mr. Khatri
attended the Zoom meeting were deemed irrelevant and remain irrelevant as the
court neither discussed the matters in the tentative ruling nor during oral
argument. Thus, the evidence RKA submits in its motion for reconsideration would
not alter the court’s ruling to grant Khatri’s GFS motion.
 
Second, assuming Mr. Khatri’s attendance to the 9/29/21 zoom call was relevant,[7]
the evidence is neither new nor has RKA offered an explanation as to its recent
introduction. 
 
Exhibits 1 through 8 are emails from over 2 years ago
copying Mr. Raymond Tao. (See Opp. p. 8.) Mr. Le’s email was already available
to RKA as the email CC’d Mr. Tao. (Motion, Ex. 7, p. 41 of 46 of PDF.)[8]
Admittedly, “RKA does not
dispute that the documents set forth in the instant motion were part of its
file.” (Reply p. 2:4-5). Thus, RKA could have opposed the GFS motion with said evidence and provided the email
at the hearing but did not. (See NYT, supra, 135 Cal.App.4th at pp.
212-215.) 
 
To the extent some explanation is provided in Reply, it
is both untimely[9]
and unpersuasive. The party asserting the lack of
good faith has the burden of proof on that issue. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (d).) As the party
opposing Khatri’s GFS motion and as the party stating that Mr. Khatri during
the Zoom meeting “explain[ed] his recommendation for an immediate evacuation
based on his conclusion that there was a high risk of danger,” (RKA Opp. to
Khatri GFS p. 4:1-3) then RKA should have had evidence ready during the GFS hearing
to support that statement, even if it required parsing through 95,000 pages. It
is not “unfair” for a party to meet its evidentiary burden. (RKA Reply p.
5:13-14 [“Essentially, RKA had 5 days . . . For Plaintiffs to claim that RKA's
counsel should have possessed and reviewed all relevant documents to oppose
Khatri's good faith motion is completely absurd and unrealistic. . . To hold
RKA to an untenable, unsupportable and new standard is unfair.”].)[10]
What RKA attempts to do is to circumvent the very purpose of litigation: compile
evidence. (Garcia, supra, 58 Cal.App.4th at p. 689 [“The miserable result would be to defeat the
Legislature's stated goal of reducing the number of reconsideration motions and
would remove an important incentive for parties to efficiently marshall [sic]
their evidence.”].) 
 
In sum, as summarized by Khari in opposition, this is not a
case where third-party discovery or depositions reveal some previously unknown
fact giving rise to the need for reconsideration. Rather, it is situation
wherein Mr. Tao, as RKA’s witness with the relevant knowledge, failed to
include in declaration in opposition to Khatri’s GFS motion information of
which he was fully aware. (Khatri Opp. p. 11:16-20.) 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing—as RKA’s motion effectively seeks
the court to excuse RKA from meeting its affirmative burden in the GFS
motion but an excuse is not proscribed by reconsideration—the motion is DENIED.
With that determination, the court turns to the motion for sanctions. 
 
2.     Motion for Sanctions
Legal Standard
Plaintiffs move the Court for
an Order for Monetary Sanctions pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure
section 128.7. (Motion p. 2, 6.)
In turn, California’s 128.7
motion is a statutory provision designed to prevent parties from filing and
maintaining lawsuits or motions deemed frivolous, improper, or filed for an
improper purpose. Specifically, in pertinent part, the statute provides the
following:
(b) By presenting to the
court, whether by signing, filing, submitting, or later advocating, a pleading,
petition, written notice of motion, or other similar paper, an attorney or
unrepresented party is certifying that to the best of the person’s knowledge,
information, and belief, formed after an inquiry reasonable under the
circumstances, all of the following conditions are met: (1) It is not being presented
primarily for an improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary
delay or needless increase in the cost of litigation. (2) The claims,
defenses, and other legal contentions therein are warranted by existing law or
by a nonfrivolous argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of
existing law or the establishment of new law. (3) The allegations and other
factual contentions have evidentiary support or, if specifically so identified,
are likely to have evidentiary support after a reasonable opportunity for
further investigation or discovery. (emphasis and underline added). 
Likewise, a violation of CCP
section 1008 may be punished with sanctions as allowed by Section 128.7. Before
filing the motion with the court, the moving party must serve notice of the
motion and the motion to the nonmoving party. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §
128.7c(1).) After the twenty-one (21) day safe-harbor period has elapsed and
the non-moving party has not withdrawn the “challenged paper, claim, defense
contention, allegation, or denial,” the moving party may file this motion with
the Court. Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 128.7(c)(1).
Discussion 
 
As explained above, the motion for reconsideration was,
patently, flawed. 
 
Notwithstanding, the court denies sanctions for two
reasons: 
 
i.                
The
motion for reconsideration was not brought for an improper purpose and
ii.              
The
court did not issue a final ruling.
 
During the
hearing, Khatri directed the court to Horton v. Superior Court (1987)
194 Cal.App.3d 727, a case that was not discussed in the
court’s tentative ruling.
(Khatri GFS Motion pp. 15-16.) The case advises that “In
determining a settling defendant's equitable proportionate share of liability, the
judge does not look to the plaintiff's claim for damages; rather the judge
tries to determine a “rough approximation” of what the plaintiff would actually
recover if the case should go to trial.” (Id. at p. 735.)  
 
Khatri set forth a compelling application as to
why Plaintiffs’ damages though alleged as $1,945,000.00 at best may be about
$500,000.00. (See Khatri GFS Motion p. 16.) RKA did not oppose Khatri’s calculation.
(See Opp. to Khatri Motion p. 11:4-5[“Khatri ignores and fails to address Plaintiffs $1,945,000
damages claim.”].) Thus, even assuming that RKA and Khatri bear near 50/50
liability, which the court has previously suggested, a $250,000 settlement
offer in light of potential $500,000 damages (with $35,000 already paid by the
City) is in good faith. 
 
Therefore, the court exercises its discretion to
decline sanctions because the court did not issue a final ruling. Had it done
so, the parties would have known that the sole reason the court granted
Khatri’s GFS motion was based on a re-reading and application of Horton. 
Second, there are no
indications that the reconsideration motion was brought for an improper purpose,
and Plaintiffs’ motion makes no such argument, aside from a conclusive
statement. 
To the extent that Plaintiffs
rely upon Burkle v. Burkle, that case is wholly distinguishable. There,
the wife filed a civil action despite the well-established
law that neither party to a dissolution proceeding has the right to file
a separate civil action to enforce an interim support order issued in the
dissolution proceeding. In fact, the wife’s attorneys were aware of the
applicable precedents because in another of the wife’s civil actions, the judge
sustained the demurrer citing to two precedents affirming the foregoing rule. Thus, even though the motion for reconsideration is
inarguably deficient, the pleading cannot be so characterized that it is for an
improper purpose such as to harass or cause a needless increase in the cost of
litigation. (Id. at p. 399.) 
Therefore, as
Plaintiffs have not established that the motion for reconsideration was filed
for an improper motive or intent, CCP section 128.7’s requirements are not satisfied.
To the extent that RKA seeks
sanctions against Plaintiffs in the amount of $2,000, that is also denied. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the
foregoing, exercising its discretion, the motion for sanctions is denied. 


