 Case Number:  23PSCV02630    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
(1)   DEFENDANT PALOMARES ESCROW, INC,’S
DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT is MOOT, as the court, on its own motion, STRIKES
the 6th COA for sham pleading, without leave to amend; SUSTAINED
as to the 8th COA for conversion with leave to amend TBD at the
hearing. 
 
(2)   DEFENDANT PALOMARES ESCROW, INC,’S
MOTION TO STRIKE PLAINTIFF'S COMPLAINT is GRANTED WITHOUT leave to amend
as the “tort of another” doctrine is inapplicable as a matter of law. 
 
Background
 
This case
arises from a purported fraud. Plaintiff PASADENA FEDERAL CREDIT UNION, a
federally chartered credit union (“Plaintiff” or “PFCU”), alleges the following
against PALOMARES ESCROW, INC. (“Palomares” or Palomares Escrow”) and PRIMARY
PARTNERS FINANCIAL (“PPF”): Plaintiff has had a contract with PPF to originate,
process, and underwrite residential mortgages for PFCU’s members. On August 30,
2022, PPF represented to Plaintiff that Palomares would act as the escrow
holder for two of Plaintiff’s members. Ultimately, through a series of events,
false instructions were sent to PPF, ultimately leading to the wiring of funds
to a Truist Bank, not Palomares. 
 
On August 28,
2023, Plaintiff file suit for: 
 
1.     Breach Of Contract
2.     Negligence
3.     Negligent Misrepresentation
4.     Intentional Misrepresentation
5.     Conversion 
6.     Express Indemnity
 
On November
1, 2023, DEFENDANT PALOMARES ESCROW, INC filed the instant DEMURRER and MOTION
TO STRIKE TO PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT. 
 
On November
22, 2023, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint (FAC). Though the caption
on the FAC indicates that there are 6 COAs, the body of the FAC provides for
the following 8 COAs:
 
1.     Breach of Contract (v. PPF)
2.     Negligence (v. PPF)
3.     Negligence (v. Palomares)
4.     Negligent Misrepresentation (v. PPF)
5.     Intentional Misrepresentation (v. PPF)
6.     Intentional Misrepresentation (v.
Palomares)
7.     Conversion (v. PPF)
8.     Conversion (v. Palomares)
 
On November
1, 2023, the court deemed the demurrer and MTS moot as a FAC was filed
thereafter. 
 
On December
27, 2023, Palomares filed the instant demurrer with a MTS.
 
On January
11, 2024, Plaintiff filed its opposition. The opposition is untimely as it
was filed more than 9 court days before the hearing (DUE 1/8). The court
will exercise its discretion to consider the merits of the Opposition. Notwithstanding,
should Plaintiff file an untimely paper in the future, the filing will be
disregarded. 
 
On January
12, 2024, Palomares filed its reply. 
 
Discussion
 
Palomares/moving
Defendant demurs on three grounds (see Table of Contents): 
 
1.     The new allegations of the FAC
contradict prior allegations and are a sham. 
2.     The 6th COA for intentional
misrepresentation fails to state a cause of action.
3.     The 8th COA for conversion
fails to state a cause of action.[1]
 
The court
agrees with Palomares as to all three arguments. 
 
 
 
1.    
Whether the FAC is a Sham Pleading? 
 
“Under the
sham pleading doctrine, plaintiffs are precluded from amending complaints to omit
harmful allegations, without explanation, from previous complaints to
avoid attacks raised in demurrers or motions for summary judgment.” (Deveny
v. Entropin, Inc. (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 408, 425) (emphasis added). 
 
“‘Generally,
after an amended pleading has been filed, courts will disregard the original
pleading. However, an exception to this rule is found ... where an amended
complaint attempts to avoid defects set forth in a prior complaint by ignoring
them. The court may examine the prior complaint to ascertain whether the
amended complaint is merely a sham.’ Moreover, any inconsistencies with prior
pleadings must be explained; if the pleader fails to do so, the court may
disregard the inconsistent allegations. [Citation.] Accordingly, a court is
‘not bound to accept as true allegations contrary to factual allegations in
former pleading in the same case.’ [Citation.]” (Larson v. UHS of Rancho
Springs, Inc. (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 336, 343; quoting Vallejo
Development Co. v. Beck Development Co. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 929,
946.)  
 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff has responded to the prior demurrer by deleting key
admissions and changing wholesale its theory that Ms. Blacks’ email was hacked
by a third-party fraudster to the new theory that Ms. Black is the
hacker/perpetrator of the fraud. (Demurrer pp. 12-13.)  
 
At first
glance, the original complaint and the FAC appear similar. Both allege, in the
same paragraphs, that Plaintiff entered into an agreement with Palomares Escrow
to process loans for its members (Complaint and FAC ¶7); that on 8/30/22, a
lending supervisor at Plaintiff received a secured emailed from a closing
specialist at PPF requesting funding for the subject property (¶16); that Ms.
Patti Black was an Escrow Officer at Palomares (¶17) provided wire instructions
to PPF wherein the emails were sent from an email account (homebrokerp@gmail.com) (¶18); Without performing any due diligence, PPF almost immediately
confirmed the wire instructions, and the wire was processed via Federal Reserve
system in the amount of $619,725.14 (¶P21). 
But there is one omission
which renders the FAC tantamount to a sham pleading: the FAC no longer uses
the word “hacker.”
Whereas the original complaint alleged that a “hacker was impersonating
Ms. Black through the unverified homebrokerp@gmail.com account” (Complaint ¶23,
emphasis added), the FAC now seemingly alleges that Ms. Black, the one who sent
wire instructions (¶23) is the hacker. “PFCU is informed and
believes and thereupon alleges that an employee(s) of [] Palomares were involved
in this scheme to defraud [Plaintiff] through sending false wire
instructions misrepresenting them to be true and accurate.” (FAC ¶33,
emphasis added.) The allegation that Ms. Black (a Palomares employee) defrauded
Plaintiff is further evidenced by the change in identifying the email
correspondence as “atypical” (Complaint ¶19) to an “external” email address
(FAC ¶19), suggesting that the this was not a hacker (i.e., hacker would hack
into an internal email address).  
 
To the extent that Plaintiff attempts to clarify
the discrepancy, it is unpersuasive. As stated above, despite Plaintiff’s characterization, the original
complaint did not allege Ms. Black as a hacker. Plaintiff alleged that
during the closing of escrow, a third-party fraudster or hacker inserted itself
into the transaction. 
 
All in all,
while the original complaint was conflicting and somewhat uncertain,[2]
the FAC is now clear but contradictory to the original complaint. Thus, it is
not Palomares who is “attempting to change its story” (Opp. p. 4:6-7), but
Plaintiff. 
 
Without a meaningful explanation as to the sham
pleading accusation, the court deems the demurrer as to the 6th COA
moot because the court, on its ow motion, STRIKES the 6th COA.[3]
 
2.     Conversion COA 
 
Conversion
requires: (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of the property;
(2) defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of property rights;
and (3) damages. Lee v. Hanley (2015) 61 Cal. App. 4th 1225, 1240.
Conversion must be knowingly or intentionally done, such that negligence or
breach of contract does constitute a conversion. (Taylor v. Forte Hotels
Int’l (1991) 235 Cal. App. 3d 1119, 1124.) Further, defendants need not
actually take the property; “it is only necessary to show an assumption of
control or ownership over the property, or that the alleged converter has
applied the property to his own use.” (Enterprise Leasing Corp. v. Shugart
Corp. (1991) 231 CA3d 737, 747.) 
 
Here, despite
the conclusory allegation in the 8th COA that Palomares “have
wrongfully exercised control over the funds” and “continue to wrongfully
exercise control over the funds,” the FAC (and original complaint) contend
otherwise: Truist Bank has the money. (Demurrer p. 19:2-3.) By example, the FAC
alleges the following: 
 
-       
“Truist
Bank representatives also stated that the funds were still there, they would
not be returning, and instructed PFCU to call back in a week if PFCU has not
heard from Truist Bank.” FAC ¶30
-       
“Truist
Bank refused to assist PFCU.” FAC ¶31
-       
 “After lengthy back and forth correspondence,
a wire from Truist Bank was received on or about October 4, 2022 for
$207,041.72, a difference of $412,683.42 from the original wire transfer on
August 30, 2022.” FAC ¶32
 
How, Palomares, when Truist Bank has the money,
exercises control over this money is unpled, unclear, and uncertain. 
 
Therefore,
the court SUSTAINS the demurrer as to the 8th COA for Conversion.
While leave to amend should liberally be granted upon the first leave of court,
the court will not do so here considering the contradictory nature of the
allegations. Leave to
amend will be determined at the hearing. 
 
Motion to
Strike
 
Palomares
moves to strike from Page 13, lines 13 to 14 – “2. PFCU’s reasonable attorneys’
fees pursuant to Cal. Civ. Cove § 1717 and any other relevant law authorizing
such relief” because the 3rd COA for negligence and 6th
and 8th COAs (intentional torts) do not provide grounds for attorney
fees. 
 
Attorney's fees are generally recoverable as costs in a current action
only if provided for by statute, law, or contract.
 
Here, there is no contract between Palomares and Plaintiff nor a statute
that would provide for it. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs advanced the “Tort of Another” doctrine to
justify recovery of attorney fees. (Opp. pp. 2-3, citing to Prentice v. North America Title
Guaranty Corp.,
(1963) 59 Cal.2d. 618, 620.) The
doctrine, however, is inapplicable to the instant facts. 
 
The
California Supreme Court in Prentice created an exception to the general American rule that parties bear their own
attorney fees and costs in tort actions. As stated in Prentice, “A person who through the tort of
another has been required to act in the protection of his interests by bringing
or defending an action against a third person is entitled to recover
compensation for the reasonably necessary loss of time, attorney's fees, and
other expenditures thereby suffered or incurred.” (Id. at p.
620.) Notably, the doctrine does not allow a party to recover the fees and costs
involved in litigating directly with a negligent defendant, and the
doctrine does not apply to the situation where a plaintiff has been damaged by
the joint negligence of codefendants. (See Gorman v. Tassajara Development
Corp. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 44, 80 [“The tort of another doctrine does not
allow a party to recover the fees and costs involved in litigating directly
with a negligent defendant. [internal citation omitted]. The biggest problem
with this claim, however, as contractor asserts in its supplemental letter
brief, is that the tort of another doctrine does not apply to the situation
where a plaintiff has been damaged by the joint negligence of codefendants.”].)

 
Here, as Plaintiff suing Palomares as a defendant and as the (or
one of) the tortfeasors, then Palomares is not the third party. 
 
Therefore, the tort of another theory does not apply to justify
Plaintiffs' recovery of costs as damages under these circumstances. As the
claim fails as a matter of well-established law, the motion to strike attorney
fees is GRANTED without leave to amend. 
 
 
 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the demurrer as to the 6th COA is
MOOT as it is stricken, demurrer as to the 8th COA is SUSTAINED with
leave to amend TBD at the hearing. The MTS attorney fees is GRANTED, without
leave to amend. 


