 Case Number:  24STCP00661    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  82 Essam Assaad,                                                           Case No. 24STCP00661
 
v.
                                                                    Hearing:
January 15, 2025
                                                                        Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse
California
Unemployment Insurance                     Department:
82                                     
 Appeals Board                                                     Judge:
Stephen I. Goorvitch      
 
[Tentative] Order Granting in Part and
Denying in Part
Petition for Writ of Mandate
            
INTRODUCTION

 
Petitioner
Essam Assaad (“Petitioner”) was terminated from his job at Zenith Insurance
Company on June 9, 2021, and he filed a claim for unemployment benefits on
August 29, 2022.  The Employment
Development Department (the “EDD”) denied the claim, and Petitioner appealed
the decision to Respondent California Unemployment Insurance Appeals Board
(“Respondent” or the “CUIAB”).  The
administrative law judge (the “ALJ”) affirmed the EDD’s decision, finding that
Petitioner “made no attempt to file a claim before August 29, 2022” and that
“[t]here was no legitimate reason for the claimant’s failure to file the claim
earlier than the claimant ultimately did.” 
The CUIAB affirmed
the ALJ’s decision finding Petitioner ineligible for benefits because he did
not submit a timely claim.  Now,
Petitioner seeks a writ of mandate to set aside this decision and to grant his
request for benefits.  The ALJ and the
CUIAB erred in two respects.  There is
insufficient evidence to support the finding that Petitioner “made no attempt”
to file a claim before August 29, 2022. 
In fact, the uncontradicted evidence demonstrates that he made attempts
to do so.  More important, the ALJ relied
on evidence outside the record—hearsay statements made by other litigants in
other cases indicating that claims could have been filed during the relevant
time period—without providing Petitioner notice and opportunity to challenge
this evidence.  Therefore, the court
grants the petition for writ of mandate and remands the case for a new trial.  The court denies the petition to the extent
Petitioner seeks a writ entitling him to benefits.  That must first be decided on the merits by
the administrative law judge and reviewed by the CUIAB.  
 
BACKGROUND 
 
            On
Wednesday, June 9, 2021, Petitioner was terminated from his employment at
Zenith Insurance Company.  (AR 56,
19.)  At all relevant times, Petitioner was
continuously unemployed since his termination. 
(AR 4.)  Petitioner filed a claim
for unemployment benefits in person at the Canoga Park office of the EDD on
August 29, 2022, which was 445 days after he was terminated.  (AR 17, 26, 56-57.)  On November 3, 2022, the EDD notified
Petitioner that his request to backdate his claim was denied.  (AR 2, 16, 21.)[1]  Petitioner then appealed that decision and a
hearing was held before an ALJ.
According
to Petitioner’s sworn testimony before the ALJ, the offices of the EDD were not
open to the public in 2021 and through mid-2022 due to restrictions related to
the Covid-19 pandemic.  (AR 24.)  Petitioner testified that he made multiple unsuccessful
attempts to file his claim for unemployment benefits online and by telephone starting
in or about June 2021, after he was terminated. 
(AR 22.)  Petitioner testified
that the EDD offices opened to the public around July or August 2022, when he
filed his claim in person at the EDD’s office in Canoga Park.  (AR 22, 26.) 
Petitioner testified that the EDD’s offices “may have reopened in July
of 2022 but not much earlier than that.” 
(AR 22.)  Respondent has not cited
any evidence in the administrative record contradicting Petitioner’s testimony
that the EDD’s physical offices did not reopen until mid-2022.  (See Opposition (“Oppo.”) 7-8.)  
 
The
ALJ asked Petitioner if he had “any screenshots or any kind of documents that
indicate [his] attempts to file a claim ... online ... or any of [the] error
messages … [he] received.” (AR 23.)  In
response, Petitioner stated that he did not have a screenshot of the error
messages.  (Ibid.)  Petitioner also testified, however, that he
“certainly would have an email from EDD … when I first attempted to file my
claim,” but that he had not submitted such evidence prior to the hearing before
the ALJ, as required by the notice of hearing. 
(Ibid.; see also AR 9 [notice of hearing].)   
 
            On
June 21, 2023, the ALJ issued a decision upholding the EDD determination that
Petitioner was ineligible for unemployment benefits “for twelve (12) weeks
beginning June 5, 2022 and ending August 27, 2022.”  (AR 56.) 
In a section of the decision titled “Findings of Fact,” the ALJ made several
factual findings, including: 
 
The claimant made no attempt to file a claim before August
29, 2022. The claimant's delay in applying for benefits was due to
procrastination.  There was no legitimate
reason for the claimant's failure to file the claim earlier than the claimant
ultimately did.
 
(AR 56.)  In a section of the decision titled
“Credibility,” the ALJ also found Petitioner’s testimony was not credible, even
though it was not contradicted.  In
relevant part, the ALJ reasoned as follows:
 
If weaker and less satisfactory evidence is offered when it
was within the power of the party to produce stronger and more satisfactory
evidence, the evidence offered should be viewed with distrust. (Evidence Code,
section 412.)
 
….[¶]
 
During [the]
fifteen-month period, the claimant never once sought to correspond with the
Department in writing either electronically or by U.S. mail concerning his
desire to apply for benefits or the purported difficulties he was having in
applying for such benefits. 
 
The claimant has no documentary evidence, such as emails or
screenshots, concerning any of his failed attempts to apply for benefits.
Because it was within the claimant’s power to produce stronger and more
satisfactory evidence, the evidence offered, including the claimant's
testimony, is viewed with distrust. Moreover, the Administrative Law Judge has
conducted hearings that involved claimants during the same time period who were
able to converse with Department representatives at field offices, even if only
through a door or partition when not allowed entry into the office itself.
Based on the Administrative Law Judge’s experience, the Administrative Law
Judge finds the claimant not credible and therefore does not accept as true the
claimant’s testimony, even though the testimony is uncontradicted. Accordingly,
the facts are as above.
 
(AR 56-57.)
 
            On
July 21, 2023, Petitioner appealed the ALJ’s decision to the CUIAB and
submitted a copy of an email dated July 18, 2021, confirming he created an EDD
account after his termination and over 45 pages of news articles.  (AR 90-146, 162, and 221.)  The news articles included an op-ed, letters
to the editor, and various other articles about the EDD and its response to the
pandemic. (AR 90-146.)  With his appeal,
Petitioner also included a lengthy, sworn declaration.  (See AR 64-67.)  
 
            On September 5, 2023, the CUIAB
affirmed the ALJ’s decision finding Petitioner ineligible for benefits because
he did not submit a timely claim.  (AR
231-238.)  The CUIAB admitted into
evidence and considered the email dated July 18, 2021, but not Petitioner’s
other new evidence.  (Ibid.)  In all other respects, the CUIAB did not
upset or modify the findings made by the ALJ. 
This writ petition followed.
 
STANDARD OF
REVIEW
 
Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5(b), the pertinent issues are whether the
respondent has proceeded without jurisdiction, whether there was a fair trial,
and whether there was a prejudicial abuse of discretion.  An abuse of discretion is established if the
agency has not proceeded in the manner required by law, the decision is not
supported by the findings, or the findings are not supported by the
evidence.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1094.5(b).)
 
Unemployment
benefits of the nature involved here have long been held to be subject to the
independent judgment standard of review. 
(Douglas v. Unemployment Ins.
Appeals Bd. (1976) 63 Cal.App.3d 110, 114.) 
Furthermore, “remedial
statutes involving welfare benefits are to be interpreted in a manner that
minimizes the hardship of unemployment. Because unemployment insurance benefits
are a property right, and because the unemployment insurance laws are remedial
in nature, the Unemployment Insurance Code must be liberally construed to
further the legislative objective of reducing the hardship of
unemployment.”  (Johar v. California
Unemployment Ins. Appeals Bd. (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 259, 276, internal
citations and quotation marks omitted.)  
 
Under
the independent judgment test, “the trial court not only examines the
administrative record for errors of law, but also exercises its independent
judgment upon the evidence disclosed in a limited trial de novo.”  (Bixby v. Pierno (1971) 4 Cal. 3d 130,
143.)  The court must draw its own
reasonable inferences from the evidence and make its own credibility
determinations.  (Morrison v. Housing Authority of the City of Los Angeles Board of
Commissioners (2003) 107 Cal. App. 4th 860, 868.)  “In exercising its independent judgment, a
trial court must afford a strong presumption of correctness concerning the
administrative findings, and the party challenging the administrative decision
bears the burden of convincing the court that the administrative findings are
contrary to the weight of the evidence.” 
(Fukuda v. City of Angels
(1999) 20 Cal. 4th 805, 817.)  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
A.        Statutory
and Regulatory Framework 
 
“An unemployed individual is
eligible to receive unemployment compensation benefits with respect to any week
only if the director finds that: (a) A claim for benefits with respect to that
week has been made in accordance with authorized regulations….”  (Unemployment Insurance Code § 1253(a).)  The
authorized regulations are found at California Code of Regulations, title 22,
sections 1253-1 and 1326-1, et seq.[2]  These regulations state, among other things,
that claimants file new claims by contacting the EDD and providing the required
application information. (§
1326-2(b).)  Further, the regulations
define a “week of unemployment” as “the week of unemployment in which an
individual registers in person at an employment office prior to the close of
business on Friday of such week.”  (§
1253-2; see also § 1253-1.)  
 
The EDD “shall … extend the period
prescribed for the filing of a new … claim … if the department finds that the
failure of the individual to file any such claim or to register for work within
the prescribed time was due to good cause.” 
(§ 1326-10(a).)  “Good cause”
includes “mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect,” but “does not
include negligence, carelessness, or procrastination, in the absence of
circumstances excusing these causes for delay.” 
(§ 1326-10(a)(7).)  “The
individual shall file such claim or register for work with reasonable diligence
after the termination of good cause, usually not later than during the week
following the week in which such termination occurs.”  (§ 1326-10(b).)  “A first or subsequent partial claim or other
claim for benefits or registration for work shall not be valid if it is filed
more than 13 weeks after the end of the benefit year (actual or potential)
during which the week of partial unemployment or week of unemployment occurred.”  (§ 1326-10(c).)
 
B.        The
ALJ’s Findings Are Not Supported by the Record 
 
In relevant part, the ALJ and the CUIAB found
that Petitioner “made no attempt
to file a claim before August 29, 2022.”  (AR
56 [emphasis added].)  The ALJ and the
CUIAB did not find that Petitioner made attempts to file a claim online or by
phone during part of the relevant time period (e.g., shortly after his
termination).  Rather, the ALJ and the
CUIAB found that he did not make any attempt to file a claim
before August 29, 2022.  This finding was
based on the 


 
ALJ’s determination that Petitioner
was not a credible witness.  Specifically,
the ALJ reasoned as follows: 
 
The claimant has no documentary evidence, such as emails or
screenshots, concerning any of his failed attempts to apply for benefits.  Because it was within the claimant’s power to
produce stronger and more satisfactory evidence, the evidence offered,
including the claimant’s testimony, is viewed with distrust.  Moreover, the Administrative Law Judge has
conducted hearings that involved claimants during the same time period who were
able to converse with Department representatives at field offices, even if only
through a door or partition when not allowed entry into the office itself.  Based on the Administrative Law Judge’s
experience, the Administrative Law Judge finds the claimant not credible and
therefore does not accept as true the claimant’s testimony, even though the
testimony is uncontradicted.
 
(AR
68-69.)  These findings and credibility
determination were affirmed by the CUIAB and adopted as its own.  (AR 233-234.) 

 
Exercising its independent judgment on the
record, the court concludes that these specific factual findings are not
supported by the weight of the evidence. 
Starting with Petitioner’s credibility, the ALJ and CUIAB did not “identify any
specific evidence of the observed demeanor, manner, or attitude of the witness
that supports the determination” that Petitioner was not credible.  (See Gov. Code § 11425.50(b).)[3]  Accordingly, the ALJ and CUIAB’s credibility
findings are not entitled to any special deference from this court.  (See ibid. and Rutter, Administrative
Law, ¶ 5:584 [“the rule requiring the court to give ‘great weight’ to the
presiding officer’s credibility findings applies only if the credibility
findings are based on demeanor”].)  
 
At the administrative hearing, Petitioner testified in detail
about numerous, unsuccessful attempts to contact the EDD by phone and also to
file his claim online and by phone:
 
I -- I attempted to do it online -- file the claim online,
which is what the website and the phone message advises, using two different
forms of government issued picture ID, and received the same error that says
approximately, unable to validate, or verify your identity.  You have to file your claim in person.
Attempting to contact the EDD obviously in person was not an option. I made
many, many attempts to contact EDD by phone and even staying on hold was not an
option. The -- the recording says due to a high call volume, we can’t take your
call at this time. Please -- please try again later and clicked. You are
disconnected. That’s all I got for a very long time. I kept checking back
periodically after a few months until EDD opened in person. I may not have been
there on the first day EDD opened in person, but I don't think I was much later
than physical service was available and that’s when I went in and did it in
person.   
 
(AR 22.)  When questioned by the ALJ, Petitioner consistently
testified that he attempted to file a claim with the EDD by phone and online.  For example, when asked by the ALJ what he
did to prepare for the hearing, Petitioner testified in part as follows: 
 
I simply reviewed the documents you sent me. I don’t have
anything else to add other than EDD was closed.  I – I’m not sure I need to why I need to prove
that EDD offices were closed through at least all of 2021 and some of 2022.  I -- I -- I can't imagine how that fact can be
in dispute.  I mean that’s all that this
delay hinges on.  Why didn’t I do it
sooner? Because it would’ve been impossible to do it sooner ‘cause online the
system wouldn’t let me and by phone I wasn’t able to reach anyone…. And in
person was not possible until sometime mid 2022.  
 
(AR 24.)  The ALJ then asked, “Are you telling me that
in 15 months, you were not able to reach the EDD by phone?”  (Ibid.)  Still under oath, Petitioner responded: “Yes,
I am.”  (Ibid.)  Upon further questioning from the ALJ,
Petitioner also testified that “my income was zero so I didn't need any
motivation or deadlines to [file a claim].” 
(AR 25.) 
 
Although Petitioner did not produce screenshots documenting
his failed attempts to apply for benefits, he did submit with his appeal an
email dated July 18, 2021, from the EDD confirming successful registration of
an online benefits account.  (AR
233.)  That email, which the CUIAB
admitted into evidence, corroborates Petitioner’s testimony that he attempted
to file a claim online after he was terminated in June 2021.  (AR 22.) 
On the narrow factual issue of
whether Petitioner made attempts to file a claim with the EDD online and by
telephone after he was terminated in June 2021, the court finds Petitioner’s
testimony to be credible, consistent, and uncontradicted.  Accordingly, the court finds that the ALJ’s
and CUIAB’s finding that Petitioner “made no attempt to
file a claim before August 29, 2022” is not supported by the weight of the
evidence.  (AR 56 [emphasis added].)  Tellingly, Respondent introduced no evidence
demonstrating that its officers were, in fact, open during the relevant time
period.    
 
More
important, the ALJ based her credibility determination on evidence outside the
record, specifically, hearsay statements from litigants in other unemployment
cases.  The ALJ stated:
 
Moreover, the Administrative Law Judge has conducted
hearings that involved claimants during the same time period who were able to
converse with Department representatives at field offices, even if only through
a door or partition when not allowed entry into the office itself.  Based on the Administrative Law Judge’s
experience, the Administrative Law Judge finds the claimant not credible and
therefore does not accept as true the claimant’s testimony, even though the testimony
is uncontradicted.
 
(AR
68-69.)  The CUIAB did not overturn this
specific finding or state that it was not relying upon it.  (AR 233-234.) 
In that regard, the CUIAB prejudicially abused its discretion.  The statements of other claimants upon which
the ALJ relied were not submitted into evidence.  Accordingly, the weight of the evidence does
not support the ALJ and the CUIAB’s credibility determinations for this additional
reason.
 
In
the opposition brief, Respondent fails to address Petitioner’s argument that the
ALJ and the CUIAB prejudicially abused their discretion in relying on hearsay
statements that were not submitted into evidence and were not “public
knowledge.”  (See OB 12; Sehulster Tunnels/Pre-Con v. Traylor
Brothers, Inc. (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1328, 1345, fn. 16 [failure to
address point is “equivalent to a concession”].)  Although not raised by Respondent, the ALJ apparently
relied upon Government Code section 11425.50(c), which states:
 
The statement of
the factual basis for the decision shall be based exclusively on the
evidence of record in the proceeding and on matters officially noticed
in the proceeding. The presiding officer’s experience, technical competence,
and specialized knowledge may be used in evaluating evidence.
 
(AR 57;
Gov. Code § 11425.50(c) [emphasis added].)
 
Respondent
has not argued, or shown, that the ALJ complied with section 11425.50(c).  The ALJ did not purport to take official
notice of the truth of hearsay statements of the other claimants and she did
not give Petitioner notice that she would take official notice of those hearsay
statements, as required by law.  (See Gov.
Code § 11515.)  Nor could she take
official notice of such hearsay statements, which are not “generally accepted technical or scientific
matter” or otherwise subject to judicial notice by the courts of this state.  (See ibid. & Evid. Code §
452.)  Further, the ALJ was not simply
applying her experience and expertise in evaluating the evidence presented by
the parties at the hearing.  (See Vinson
v. Synder (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 182, 186-189.)[4]  Rather, the ALJ affirmatively relied upon hearsay
statements of other claimants that were not presented into evidence in the
administrative hearing at issue.  Thus, in
violation of section 11425.50(c), the factual basis of the decision was not “based
exclusively on the evidence of record in the proceeding.”  This error was prejudicial because the ALJ
and the CUIAB relied, in part, on this extra-record evidence in finding that
Petitioner was not credible.     
 
            Exercising
its independent judgment on the record, the court finds that the weight of the
evidence does not support the finding that Petitioner lacked credibility in his
testimony that he made multiple, unsuccessful attempts to file a claim with the
EDD, both by telephone and through the EDD’s website.  (See AR
22-26.)  Exercising its independent
judgment, the court also concludes that the weight of the evidence does not
support the finding that Petitioner “made no attempt to
file a claim before August 29, 2022.”  (AR
56 [emphasis added].)  Given Petitioner’s
detailed testimony, which is not contradicted, and the email dated July 18,
2021, from the EDD, the court finds it credible that Petitioner did make
attempts to file a claim with the EDD after he was terminated in June 2021.  The ALJ and the CUIAB also prejudicially
abused their discretion in relying on evidence from outside the record.  
            C.        Petitioner Did Not Receive Due Process 
 
Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5(b), the pertinent issues include whether
there was a fair trial. 
“Generally, a fair procedure requires ‘notice reasonably calculated to
apprise interested parties of the pendency of the action ... and an opportunity
to present their objections.’”  (Doe v. University of Southern California
(2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 221, 240.)  “[C]ommon
law requirements for a fair hearing under section 1094.5 do not allow an administrative board to rely on evidence that has
never been revealed to the accused.”  (Id.
at 247.)  The California Supreme
Court has summarized this principle as follows: 
 
The action of such an administrative board exercising adjudicatory
functions when based upon information of which the parties were not
apprised and which they had no opportunity to controvert amounts to a denial of
a hearing. [Citations.] Administrative tribunals which are required to make a
determination after a hearing cannot act upon their own information, and
nothing can be considered as evidence that was not introduced at a hearing of
which the parties had notice or at which they were present. [Citations.]
... [T]he right of a hearing before an administrative tribunal would be
meaningless if the tribunal were permitted to base its determination upon
information received without the knowledge of the parties. A hearing requires
that the party be apprised of the evidence against him so that he may have an
opportunity to refute, test, and explain it, and the requirement of a hearing
necessarily contemplates a decision in light of the evidence there introduced.
 
(Id. at 247-248, quoting English v.
City of Long Beach (1950) 35 Cal.2d 155, 158-159.)  Due process principles, as applied to
administrative proceedings, are similar. 
(Gross v. Lopez (1975) 419 U.S. 565.)  Procedural errors, “even if proved, are
subject to a harmless error analysis.”  (Hinrichs v. County of Orange (2004) 125
Cal.App.4th 921, 928.)
 
            As
discussed, the ALJ based her credibility determination,
in part, on hearsay statements of claimants from other unemployment claimants
from other cases.  (AR 68-69.)  The CUIAB did not overturn this specific
finding or state that it was not relying upon it.  (AR 233-234.) 
The ALJ did not give Petitioner notice that she would be relying on this
evidence, which was not introduced or admitted at the hearing, or an
opportunity to respond to it.  (See AR
15-28 [hearing transcript].)  Government
Code section 11425.50(c) and principles of due process did not authorize the
ALJ to make a credibility determination based on her personal knowledge of
hearsay statements of non-party claimants from other administrative proceedings,
especially without giving Petitioner notice and an opportunity to respond to
such evidence.  Respondent has not
advanced an argument or cited any authority to the contrary.[5]  
D.        The
CUIAB Did Not Abuse its Discretion in Excluding Petitioner’s Evidence
 
Petitioner
argues that the CUIAB improperly disregarded evidence that he submitted with
his appeal, specifically his six news articles. 
(OB 13-16.)  The news articles
included an op-ed, letters to the editor, and various other articles about the EDD
and its response to the pandemic. (AR 90-146.) 
One of the articles states: “Frustrated workers showing up at the EDD
offices during the pandemic were met with iron gates and bolted doors. A sign
told them to call the same 800 number they'd been calling over and over.”  (AR 99.) 
Another article states: “EDD’s pandemic operations rapidly devolved into
a bureaucratic Chernobyl with immense and prolonged backlogs of claims [and] unresponsive
handling of claimants’ inquiries….”  (AR
92.)
 
With
his appeal, Petitioner also included a lengthy, sworn declaration which states,
in part, as follows: 
 
I am a 58 year old
single parent and the sole guardian of my two minor dependent children (now
ages 10 and 13). There is no one to replace me in my parental role - my
children have no living relatives who can take care of them. There was no
daycare, summer camp, babysitters or anything of the sort during the relevant
time period. I had to be present at all times to take care of them…. Until the
risk of contracting eovid-19 had subsided, I took every precaution to stay safe
for myself and my children. From March 2020 until summer of2022 when both CDC
and CDPII guidelines eased social distancing restrictions, the only place I
visited was the grocery store…. I would believe it is unfair and unjust to look
back in time and characterize my behavior during the relevant time period as “procrastination”
when it was, in large part, cautious and protective of myself and my children….
 
[¶¶]
 
I also believe
that the ALJ improperly based her Decision on anecdotal hearsay that she heard.
For example, on page 2, paragraph 4 of the Decision (Exhibit 1), the ALJ
references, without legal support or evidentiary support or foundational
support, that other unknown, unidentified claimants “who were able to converse
with Department representatives at field offices, even if only through a door
or partition when not allowed entry into the office itself.”  This statement appears to form the essential
basis for the ALJ’s decision in this case that I “procrastinated.”…. I believe
that this faulty reasoning created an insurmountable bias against me that is further
evidenced by the ALJ’s apparent disregard and general lack of interest in the
facts of my case.
 
(AR
68-69.)  
 
            
The CUIAB declined to admit this new
evidence because it was “not pivotal or material to the outcome.”  (AR 234.) 
In Land v. CUIAB (2020) 54 Cal.App.5th 127, the Court of Appeal
summarized the legal standard for the CUIAB to admit such evidence, as follows:
 
In an unemployment
insurance benefits case, a party appearing before an ALJ “shall have his or her
evidence and witnesses and be ready to proceed.” (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 22, § 5062,
subd. (a).)
On appeal to the Appeals Board, “An application to present new or additional
evidence shall state the nature of the evidence, the materiality of such
evidence, and the reasons why such evidence was not introduced at the hearing
before the [ALJ]. If the new or additional evidence is documentary in
nature, the applicant shall attach the evidence to the application. No such
evidence shall be considered by the board unless the board admits it.” (Id.,
§ 5102, subd. (d).)
 
(Land,
supra, 54 Cal.App.5th at 143.)  The
Court further stated that it “is only in a very unusual case that we will
conclude the Appeals Board abused its discretion in failing to consider new
evidence.”  (Id. at 144.)  The CUIAB may abuse its discretion if the
evidence is “pivotal to the ALJ’s decision and to the Appeals Board's reasoning
for upholding it.”  (Ibid.)  
 
Here,
the news articles may have some similarities to Petitioner’s testimony that he
could not reach the EDD by phone or submit his claim at its physical offices
during the pandemic.  However, the news
articles are hearsay, are not specific to Petitioner’s case, and, over timely
objection, would not be sufficient in themselves to support a finding.  This is because, in an administrative
proceeding, “[h]earsay evidence may be used for the purpose of supplementing or
explaining other evidence but over timely objection shall not be
sufficient in itself to support a finding unless it would be admissible over
objection in civil actions.”  (Gov. Code
§ 11513(d); see Lake v. Reed (1997) 16 Cal.4th 448, 458.)  Petitioner does not show that the news
articles are “pivotal” to the ALJ’s decision or the CUIAB’s reasons for
upholding it.  Accordingly, the CUIAB did
not prejudicially abuse its discretion in excluding this new evidence.
 
Petitioner
has not argued that the CUIAB erred when it did not admit his declaration into
evidence.  The court declines to make
Petitioner’s arguments for him on this point. 
A reviewing court “will not act as counsel for either party to an appeal
and will not assume the task of initiating and prosecuting a search of the
record for any purpose of discovering errors not pointed out in the briefs.” (Fox v. Erickson (1950) 99 Cal.App.2d
740, 742.)  “When an appellant fails to
raise a point, or asserts it but fails to support it with reasoned argument and
citations to authority, we treat the point as waived.”  (Nelson v. Avondale HOA (2009) 172
Cal.App.4th 857, 862-863.)
 
Petitioner
has not shown any prejudicial abuse of discretion in the CUIAB’s decision to
exclude Petitioner’s news articles and declaration.  Nonetheless, on remand, the CUIAB or assigned
ALJ may reconsider whether or not any of this evidence should be admitted.  (See Code Civ. Proc. §
1094.5(f).)  
 


 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The court grants Petitioner’s petition
for writ of mandate.  
 
            2.         The court issues a writ directing the
CUIAB to set aside the entire decision and to reconsider the matter in light of
the court’s opinion and judgment.  (Code
Civ. Proc. § 1094.5(f).)  On remand,
Respondent shall afford Petitioner a new trial that is consistent with the
court’s ruling.  However, this judgment
shall not limit or control in any way the discretion legally vested in
Respondent.  (See ibid.)  In other words, this judgment shall not
preclude Respondent from reaching the same decision provided that it affords
due process and there is sufficient evidence to support the decision.
 
            3.         The court denies Petitioner’s request
for additional relief, such as a writ establishing “his right to wrongfully
withheld unemployment.”  The court has an
insufficient record upon which to resolve that issue.  That issue first must be decided on the
merits by the ALJ and reviewed by the CUIAB. 
 
            4.         Respondent’s counsel shall prepare and
lodge a proposed judgment.
 
            5.         The court’s clerk shall provide
notice.  
 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED
 
 
Dated:
January 15, 2025                                             ______________________

                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge 
    


