  Case Number:  23STCP04182    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  82 California Policy Center,                                         Case No. 23STCP04182
 
v.
                                                                    Hearing:
January 15, 2025
                                                                        Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse
Los
Angeles Unified School                                     Department: 82                                              District                                                                      Judge:
Stephen I. Goorvitch
            
 
[Tentative] Order Granting in Part and
Denying in Part 
Petition for Writ of Mandate
  
INTRODUCTION 
 
Petitioner California Policy Center
(“Petitioner”) seeks a writ of mandate directing Respondent Los Angeles Unified
School District (“Respondent,” “LAUSD,” or the “District”) to produce all
public records responsive to Petitioner’s requests under the California Public
Records Act (the “CPRA”).  Petitioner
seeks documents that set forth or “evidence” the monthly and total amounts of
union dues paid by LAUSD for the months of May, June, July, and August 2023 to each
collective bargaining unit and professional management association with which
LAUSD has entered contracts.  Respondent
admits that it has “underlying accounting information reflecting whether each
employee is paying union dues and the amounts paid.”  However, Respondent argues that it need not
produce these documents under the CPRA’s collective bargaining exemption for
local agencies, Government Code section 7928.410, citing Freedom Foundation
v. Superior Court (2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 47. 
The court finds that because these accounting records have no role in
the LAUSD’s “deliberative
processes” or its “instruction, advice, or training” to employees involved in
collective bargaining processes, they are not exempt under the CPRA.  Therefore, the
petition for writ of mandate is granted in part.  The LAUSD shall produce either: (a) The
accounting records reflecting whether each employee is paying union dues and
the amounts paid (with any appropriate redactions); or (b) Identify and produce
records and/or information that is responsive to the purpose of Petitioner’s
request, e.g., extract the responsive data and produce a copy to
Petitioner.  The petition for writ of
mandate is otherwise denied.  
 
BACKGROUND 
 
A.        Petitioner’s
CPRA Requests
 
             Petitioner seeks to
enforce its right to public records pursuant to two CPRA requests.  The first request was made on June 1, 2023
(“June 2023 Request” or the “first request”). 
The second request was made on September 5, 2023 (“September 2023
Request” or the “second request”; collectively “CPRA Requests”).  (Petition for Writ of Mandate (“Pet.”) ¶
1.)  
 
            In
the first request, Petitioner requested that Respondent produce the following
records:
“A. The total number of payers into
each and every collective bargaining unit or professional association for May
2023”; and “B. The total number of people covered by a union collective
bargaining agreement for May 2023.”  (Id.
¶ 7 and Exh. A.)  On August 4, 2023,
Respondent’s counsel denied the first request, stating in pertinent part: 
 
Please be advised that the District does not have a
responsive record that contains all of items requested. With respect to your
request that the District create a spreadsheet with this information, please be
advised that the District has no duty to create records that do not exist…. Haynie
v. Superior Court (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1061, 1073–1075 …. Moreover, none of
information requested will be made available to you because it is exempt from
disclosure under the CPRA and case law. (Gov. Code, §§ 7927.705 and 7928.405; Freedom
Foundation v. Superior Court (2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 47….)
 
(Id. Exh. J)  In a responsive letter dated September 5,
2023, Petitioner explained – with respect to the June 2023 Request – that
Petitioner “has been making this request to LAUSD for approximately five years”
and “[t]his is the first time LAUSD has advised that this document was created
by LAUSD in response to CPC’s records.” 
(Id. Exh. K.)  
 
Petitioner sent the second request
on September 5, 2023, which modified the first request to seek the following
records:
 
1.    
A copy of each contract / MOU or
other evidence of an agreement with any and all collective bargaining unit /
professional management association that are currently in effect for the months
of May, June, July and August 2023; and 
 
2.    
Any documents that set forth the
number of employees of each bargaining unit / association for which LAUSD is
paying dues to each unit/association for each pay period for the months of May,
June, July and August 2023; and / or 
 
3.    
Any documents that set forth or
evidence the total amount paid by LAUSD to each unit / association for each pay
period for the months of May, June, July and August 2023.
 
(Id. ¶ 14, Exh. K.)  
 
On or about September 15, 2023,
Respondent produced certain responsive, non-exempt records and denied the
remainder of the first and second requests. 
In a letter, Respondent’s counsel explained:
 
This most recent request [the June 2023 Request] is similar
to prior requests received by Los Angeles Unified School District (“District”).
In the past, the District created documents to respond to these similar
requests because there was no single document that existed containing the
requested information. In the past, the District created this document to
provide your client with what was believed at the time to be public
information. Since the publication of Freedom Foundation v. Superior Court
(2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 47, this information has been deemed exempt from
disclosure. Furthermore, 


 
your assumption that the District altered an existing
document is both unfounded and untrue.
 
….[¶¶]
 
Please note that
the responsive, non-exempt, information that you seek can be found at the
following link: 
 
https://www.lausd.org/Page/4080
 
Please be advised that the District does not have a
responsive record that contains all of items of the remaining requests. With
respect to your request that the District create a spreadsheet with this
information, please be advised that the District has no duty to create records
that do not exist…. Haynie v. Superior Court (2015) 26 Cal.4th 1061 ….
Moreover, none of information requested will be made available to you because
it is exempt from disclosure under the CPRA and case law.  (Gov. Code, §§ 7927.705 and 7928.405; Freedom Foundation v. Superior Court (2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 47….)
 
(Id. ¶ 16, Exh. L.) 

 
Because the second request modified
the first request, the court focuses its analysis below on the categories of
records sought in the second request. 
Furthermore, Respondent represents that only the second and third
categories of records in the second request “remain at issue.”  (Oppo. 2:22.) 
Petitioner has not argued, or cited evidence, to the contrary.  (See Reese Decl. ¶¶ 6-12.)
 
THE CALIFORNIA PUBLIC RECORDS ACT
 
Pursuant to the CPRA (Gov. Code § 7921.000, et seq.)[1],
individual citizens have a right to access government records.  In enacting the CPRA, the California
Legislature declared that “access to information concerning the conduct of the
people’s business is a fundamental and necessary right of every person in this
state.”  (Gov. Code, § 7921.000; see also
County of Los Angeles v. Superior Court (2012)
211 Cal.App.4th 57, 63.)  Significantly, Article 1, Section 3(b) of the
Constitution affirms that “[t]he people have the right of access to information
concerning the conduct of the people’s business.” The Constitution mandates
that the CPRA be “broadly construed,” while any statute “that limits the right
of access” must be “narrowly construed.” 
(See Nat’l Lawyers Guild v. City of Hayward (2020) 9 Cal.5th 488,
507.)  
 
The CPRA “does not allow limitations on access to a public record based
upon the purpose for which the record is being requested, if the record is
otherwise subject to disclosure.” (Gov. Code § 7921.300.)  “Any reasonably segregable portion of a
record shall be available for inspection by any person requesting the record
after deletion of the portions that are exempted by law.”  (Gov. Code § 7922.525(b).)  
To establish an
agency has a duty to disclose under the CPRA, the petitioner must show that: (1) The record qualifies as a public record; and (2) The
record is in the possession of the agency. 
(See Anderson-Barker v Superior Court (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 528,
538.)  However, exemptions under the CPRA
must be narrowly construed and the agency bears the burden of showing that a
specific exemption applies.  (Sacramento County Employees’ Retirement
System v. Superior Court (2013) 195 Cal.App.4th 440, 453.)  “Because the agency has full knowledge of the contents of the
withheld records and the requester has only the agency’s affidavits and
descriptions of the documents, its affidavits must be specific enough to give
the requester ‘a meaningful opportunity to contest’ the withholding of the
documents.”  (ACLU of Northern California v. Superior Court (2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 55, 83, citations omitted.)
 
EVIDENTIARY ISSUES 
 
            Petitioner seeks judicial notice of Exhibits A and B,             which are Assembly and State Senate
analyses of AB 1455.  Respondent does not
object.  The request is granted under
Evidence Code section 452(c).  
            
            Respondent
objects to Paragraph 12 of, and Exhibit Y to, the declaration of Craig
Alexander, which was filed with the opening brief.  This paragraph and exhibit reference the CPRA
request in Freedom Foundation v. Superior Court (2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 47.  The court relied on the description from the
case itself, not this exhibit. 
Therefore, the court need not rule on this objection.  (See Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(q).) 
 
            Respondent
objects to certain paragraphs of the declaration of Craig Alexander, which was
filed with the reply brief.  The court
did not rely on those portions of the declaration.  Therefore, the court need not rule on this
objection.  (See Code Civ. Proc. §
437c(q).) 
  
DISCUSSION 
 
A.        Respondent Has Possession of Public Records
Responsive to the CPRA Requests and a Legal Duty to Assist Petitioner Identify
Responsive Records
 
The CPRA defines public records as “any writing containing information
relating to the conduct of the public’s business prepared, owned, used, or
retained by any state or local agency regardless of physical form or
characteristics.”  (Gov. Code § 7920.530(a).)  In the context of the CPRA, the term
“possession” has been defined to mean both actual and constructive possession.
(City of San Jose v. Superior Court (2017) 2 Cal.5th 608, 623.)  “[A]n agency has constructive possession of
records if it has the right to control the records, either directly or through
another person.”  (Ibid.)  The CPRA does not require agencies “to
generate new substantive content to respond to a PRA request.  The rule means that, for example, agencies
need not draft summary or explanatory material, perform calculations on data,
or create inventories of data in response to a records request.”  (National Lawyers Guild, San Francisco Bay
Area Chapter v. City of Hayward (2020) 9 Cal.5th 488, 502 [hereafter “NLG”];
see also Haynie
v. Superior Court
(2001) 26 Cal.4th 1061, 1075.)  However, “the PRA does require agencies to
gather and segregate disclosable electronic data and to ‘perform data
compilation, extraction or computer programming if ‘necessary to produce a copy
of the record.’”  (NLG, supra, 9 Cal.5th at 503, discussing Gov.
Code § 7922.575(b).)  Thus, section
7922.575(b) provides:
 
(b) …. [T]he requester
shall bear the cost of producing a copy of the record, including the cost to
construct a record, and the cost of programming and computer services necessary
to produce a copy of the record when either of the following applies:
 
…. ¶ 
 
(2) The request would
require data compilation, extraction, or programming to produce
the record.
 
(§
7922.575(b) [emphasis added].)
 
In addition, the CPRA mandates that the
responding agency “assist the member of the public make a focused and effective
request that reasonably describes an identifiable record or records.”  (Gov. Code § 7922.600(a).)  The responding agency “shall do
all of the following, to the extent reasonable under the circumstances:
 
(1)  
Assist
the member of the public to identify records and information that are
responsive to the request or to the purpose of the request, if stated.
 
(2)   Describe the
information technology and physical location in which the records exist.
 
(3)   Provide suggestions for
overcoming any practical basis for denying access to the records or information
sought.”
 
(Gov.
Code § 7922.600(a) [emphasis added].)
  
            Here, as noted above, the following
two categories of records from Petitioner’s CPRA Requests remain at issue:
            
2.    
Any documents that set forth the
number of employees of each bargaining unit / association for which LAUSD is
paying dues to each unit/association for each pay period for the months of May,
June, July and August 2023; and / or 
 
3.    
Any documents that set forth or
evidence the total amount paid by LAUSD to each unit / association for
each pay period for the months of May, June, July and August 2023.
 
(Pet. ¶ 14, Exh. K [emphasis added];
see also Oppo. 2:22 and Reese Decl. ¶¶ 6-12.)
 
            Respondent
admits that it possesses electronic accounting records “reflecting whether each
employee is paying union dues and the amounts paid.”  (Oppo. 2:10-11; see also Alexander
Decl. Exh. P at 2.)  Respondent admits
that it maintains its own electronic accounting records (using SAP software), including
“for payment of union dues” to the various unions of which its employees are
members.  (Oppo. 3:26-27, 4:13-22;
Alexander Decl. Exh. P at 2-3.)  Petitioner
submits evidence that the total amount of union dues paid by Respondent to
bargaining units may be determined from data that could be extracted from these
records.  (See e.g. OB 9:1-15,
citing Alexander Decl. Exh. U, V, W and Reese Decl. ¶ 10, Exh. I-N).  Stated another way, these accounting records “evidence”
the amounts paid by LAUSD to each collective bargaining unit and professional
management association for each pay period for the months of May, June, July
and August 2023.  (Pet. ¶ 14, Exh.
K.)  Accordingly, the court finds that
Respondent has possession of some public records responsive to the CPRA
Requests.  In the alternative, even if
the accounting records are not literally responsive to the CPRA Requests as
worded, Respondent has a legal duty to assist Petitioner “to identify records
and information that are responsive to the request or to the purpose of the
request.”  (Gov. Code §
7922.600(a)(1).)  
 
B.        The Records Are Not
Exempt under Government Code Section 7928.410 or  
Freedom Foundation v. Superior Court (2022) 87
Cal.App.5th 47  
 
Respondent argues that any “conceivable” responsive records
are exempt from disclosure under Government Code section 7928.410 and Freedom Foundation
v. Superior Court (2022)
87 Cal.App.5th 47 (“Freedom Foundation”). 
 
Freedom Foundation
concerned
Government Code section 7928.405, which exempts certain records of state
agencies.  Government Code section
7928.410, which is relevant to this case, provides a similar exemption for
records of local agencies.  Specifically,
section 7928.410 provides in full, as follows: 
 
(a)  
Except as provided in Sections
7924.510, 7924.700, and 7929.610, this division does not require the disclosure of
records of local agencies related to activities governed by Chapter 10
(commencing with Section 3500) of Division 4, that reveal a local agency’s
deliberative processes, impressions, evaluations, opinions, recommendations,
meeting minutes, research, work products, theories, or strategy, or that
provide instruction, advice, or training to employees who do not have full
collective bargaining and representation rights under that chapter.
 
(b)  
This section shall not be construed to
limit the disclosure duties of a local agency with respect to any other records
relating to the activities governed by the employee relations act referred to
in this section.
 
(Gov. Code §
7928.410.)
 
1.         Freedom
Foundation Is Distinguishable  
 
In
Freedom Foundation, the petitioner made CPRA requests to the State
Department of Human Resources (“CalHR”) for records showing the “total number
of employees in [each] bargaining unit . . . who had union dues or fees
withheld from their pay in each month of 2018 and 2019, and total amount of
union dues/fees withheld ….”  (Freedom
Foundation, supra, 87 Cal.App.5th at 52.) 
In that case, however, CalHR did not maintain the underlying records as
part of its payroll function.  Instead, CalHR
purchased the records in the form of “custom reports” from the State
Controller’s Office (the “SCO”) for use in labor negotiations.  (Id. at 52-53.)  CalHR used these reports “to evaluate
bargaining proposals, to develop strategies for collective bargaining, and to
inform and advise the Director.”  (Id.
at 53.)  Accordingly, the trial court
denied the petition for writ of mandate, and the District Court of Appeal
affirmed: 
 
We conclude, as
the trial court did, that the statute does what it says—it exempts records of state
agencies related to activities governed by the Dills Act that “reveal a state
agency’s deliberative processes, impressions, evaluations, opinions,
recommendations, meeting minutes, research, work products, theories, or strategy.” 

 
(Id. at 57, quoting
§ 6254, subd. (p)(1) [emphasis added].)
 
            By contrast, in the instant case, Petitioner seeks
underlying accounting records from the LAUSD, which are used in the first
instance for payroll purposes, not collective bargaining.  The LAUSD has possession and control of its
payroll source data in its payroll department, which handles deductions.  (See Alexander Decl. Exh. U at 56-57; see
also Reese Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. A-D.) 
Respondent does not argue, or cite evidence, that it maintains this data
in the files of its labor negotiators or that it uses this data in labor
negotiations.  Respondent does not
identify responsive
records similar to the “custom reports” at issue in Freedom Foundation.  Nor is there any specific tie between these
records in LAUSD’s labor negotiations.  Respondent’s
payroll department has not been asked to produce a “Flex Report” for any labor
negotiators (or anyone else at LAUSD) identifying employees who are union dues
payors and those who are not.  (Alexander
Decl. Exh. U at 177-178.)  The reports
created for Petitioner’s prior CPRA requests were not included in any labor
negotiation reports.  (Id. Exh. V
at 73-74; Exh. W at 45.)  Therefore, the
instant case is distinguishable from Freedom Foundation.    
 
Respondent
concedes that the records at issue are not used in direct labor
negotiations.  Referencing past reports
it produced to Petitioner in response to prior CPRA requests, Respondent concedes:
 
Although these
reports are not used in direct labor negotiations, they do reflect
the most current number of union members for each bargaining unit and
constitute labor related work product which is used by Respondent in the
context of managing its labor relations obligations.  
 
(Id.
Exh. N at 4 [emphasis added].)  Instead, Respondent attempts to interpret Freedom
Foundation broadly to encompass “[a]ll records related to labor relations
are protected by law.”  (Oppo.
8:26-27.)  Respondent asserts that “[w]hile
Freedom Foundation is not limitless, it does broadly protect all of the
documents the District uses to fulfill its labor related obligations, including
the accounting records sought here.” 
(Oppo. 9:16-25.)  
 
The
court declines to extend the holding in Freedom Foundation or the plain
language of Government Code section 7928.410. 
The court agrees with Petitioner that there must be some relationship
between the documents at issue and a local agency’s “deliberative processes” or
its “instruction, advice, or training” to employees involved in collective
bargaining processes.  In fact,
Respondent’s interpretation would contradict the District Court of Appeal’s
holding in Freedom Foundation, which left open the possibility that the
underlying data could be obtained directly from the SCO, notwithstanding
CalHR’s use of this data in labor negotiations. Accordingly, Respondent has not
shown that the underlying accounting records at issue are exempt from
disclosure pursuant to Freedom Foundation.
 
           2.          Respondent Has
Not Proven that the Statutory Exemption in Section 7928.410 Applies to
the Accounting Records at Issue 
 
As a matter of statutory construction, Respondent asserts that section
7928.410 should be interpreted to exempt all records related to labor relations,
including accounting records related to the payment of union dues:
 
Simply put, the
life cycle of public employment labor relations is beyond just the initial
negotiation stage…. Importantly here factually, the District has negotiated
with its labor partners to have dues deducted from members’ paychecks.
(Martinez Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. 1 at 124:21-125:5.) Under this type of arrangement,
legally unions have a statutory right to have those dues directly transmitted
to the union. (Gov. Code, § 3543.1, subd. (d); Ed. Code, § 45168.) Unions also
have a statutory right in how the dues are collected as well as accuracy of
these amounts vis-à-vis their statutory right to sue. (Ed. Code, § 45168.5,
subd (b)(1).) 
 
(Oppo.
9:16-25.)  Respondent
argues that “[n]owhere in the plain language of the statute is there a
limitation to information solely used during negotiations.”  (Oppo. 8:24-25.)  
 
The rules governing statutory construction are well settled. We begin
with the fundamental premise that the objective of statutory interpretation is
to ascertain and effectuate legislative intent.  To determine legislative intent, we turn first
to the words of the statute, giving them their usual and ordinary meaning.  When the language of a statute is clear, we
need go no further. However, when the language is susceptible of more than one
reasonable interpretation, we look to a variety of extrinsic aids, including
the ostensible objects to be achieved, the evils to be remedied, the
legislative history, public policy, contemporaneous administrative
construction, and the statutory scheme of which the statute is a part.
 
 (Nolan v. City of Anaheim (2004) 33
Cal.4th 335, 340, citations omitted.)  
 
Respondent
argues that the exemption in section 7928.410 applies to all “activities
governed by Chapter 10 (commencing with Section 3500) of Division 4,” which
includes the Meyers-Milias-Brown Act (“MMBA”). 
(Gov. Code § 3500.5.)  The Court of Appeal has
summarized the purposes of the MMBA as follows:
 
The purposes of the
[MMBA] are to promote full communication between management and labor and
improve employer-employee relations. According to the Act, these purposes will
be effectuated by establishing methods to resolve labor disputes and by
providing a uniform basis for recognizing the right of public employees to
organize and be represented by employee organizations…. The Act sets forth
certain principles which public agencies must follow. These primarily include
the recognition of employee organizations in representing public employees, and
the mutual obligations of public agencies and ‘recognized employee
organizations’ to meet and confer in good faith regarding wages, hours and
other conditions of employment, and to reduce their agreements to binding
written memoranda of agreement. 
 
(Relyea
v. Ventura County Fire Protection Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.App.4th 875,
880.)  Since
the MMBA applies to more than just collective bargaining, Respondent contends
that the exemption applies to everything that Respondent does with its unions.  Respondent’s interpretation is not persuasive
for several reasons.
 
Respondent fails
to give effect to subdivision (b) of section 7928.410, which states that “[t]his
section shall not be construed to limit the disclosure duties of a local agency
with respect to any other records relating to the activities governed by the
employee relations act referred to in this section.”  “When
interpreting statutory language, we may neither insert language which has been
omitted nor ignore language which has been inserted.”  (See People v. National Auto. and Cas. Ins. Co. (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th
277, 282.)  “[I]nterpretations which render any
part of a statute superfluous are to be avoided.”  (Young v. McCoy (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
1078, 1083.)  If the Legislature had intended to exempt all
employer relations described in “Chapter 10 (commencing with Section 3500) of
Division 4,” as Respondent contends, it would not have needed to exclude from
the exemption any other activities as it did int subdivision (b).
 
Similarly, Respondent’s
interpretation fails to give meaning to subdivision (a) of section 7928.410.  Specifically, only documents “that reveal a
local agency’s deliberative processes, impressions, evaluations, opinions,
recommendations, meeting minutes, research, work products, theories, or
strategy” are exempt.  There would have
been no reason for the Legislature to provide this itemized list if it had
intended to exempt everything mentioned in Chapter 10 (commencing with Section
3500), as Respondent asserts.
 
Respondent also does not
give a “reasonable and commonsense” interpretation of the statute or
acknowledge that CPRA exemptions are to be narrowly construed.  In interpreting a statute, the court must “give
the provision a reasonable and commonsense interpretation consistent with the
apparent purpose and intention of the lawmakers, practical rather than
technical in nature, which upon application will result in wise policy rather
than mischief or absurdity.”  (People v. Burgess (2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 375, 382, internal
quotation marks omitted.)  Moreover, Article 1, Section
3(b) of the California Constitution mandates that the CPRA be “broadly
construed,” while any statute “that limits the right of access” must be
“narrowly construed.”  (See NLG,
supra, 9 Cal.5th at 507.)  According
to Respondent, section 7928.410 should be interpreted to exempt from disclose all
public records created in the “the life cycle of public employment labor
relations.”  (Oppo. 9:16.) Respondent
proposes an interpretation of the statute that would not allow any public
access to its interactions with labor unions. 
That interpretation conflicts with the plain language of the statute,
which shows intent to create only a narrow exemption for public records used in
the collective bargaining process or that otherwise “reveal a local agency's deliberative
processes, impressions, evaluations, opinions, recommendations, meeting
minutes, research, work products, theories, or strategy.”  (§ 7928.410(a).) 

The
legislative history also does not support Respondent’s position.  Specifically, according to its author, “the
purpose of [the statutory] exemptions is to allow public employee unions and
public agencies to engage in candid and fully-informed collective
bargaining negotiations without the potentially disruptive effects of
public disclosure of ongoing negotiations.” (RJN Exh. A at 2 [emphasis added]; see
also RJN Exh. B at 2-3.)  This
legislative history does not suggest that the Legislature sought to exempt from
disclosure all records related to labor relations.  Finally, as a factual
matter, Respondent does not show that the accounting records at issue fall
within the scope of section 7928.410, as discussed.  
 
Based on the foregoing, Respondent does not show
that the accounting data that Petitioner seeks is exempt from disclosure under Freedom Foundation or section 7928.410.  Accordingly, since the accounting data is
held in electronic form, Respondent must either produce the accounting records themselves
(with
appropriate redactions), or extract the responsive data and produce a copy of the
extracted data to Petitioner.  (See NLG, supra, 9 Cal.5th at 503, discussing Gov.
Code § 7922.575(b).)
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 
Based upon the foregoing, the court
orders as follows:
 
1.         The
petition for writ of mandate is granted in part.  The Los Angeles Unified School District shall
produce either: (a) The accounting records reflecting whether each employee is
paying union dues and the amounts paid (with any appropriate redactions); or 
(b) Identify and produce records
and/or information that is responsive to the purpose of Petitioner’s request, e.g.,
extract the responsive data and produce a copy to Petitioner.  
 
            2.         The petition for writ of mandate is
otherwise denied.
 
            3.         Respondent shall comply with the writ
and file a return within 90 days of service of the writ.  Neither party has requested that the court
conduct an in camera review of responsive documents.    
 
            4.         The court declines to issue a declaratory judgment because Petitioner has an
adequate remedy with respect to the petition for writ of mandate.  
 
            5.         The court declines to issue injunctive
relief because Petitioner has an adequate remedy with respect to the petition
for writ of mandate.  
 
            6.         Petitioner shall pay the costs of
extraction, if any, per Government Code section 7922.575(b).  The parties shall meet-and-confer on this
issue and, if necessary, file a noticed motion to resolve any disputes
concerning the cost.
 
            


 
7.         Petitioner
may be entitled to attorney’s fees or costs if the court determines that
Petitioner prevailed in this action.  (Gov.
Code § 7923.115(a); Fontana Police
Dept. v. Villegas-Banuelos (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 1249, 1252.)  The court orders the parties to
meet-and-confer and, if necessary, Petitioner may file a noticed motion.  
 
            8.         The court’s clerk shall provide
notice.  
 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED 
 
 
Dated: January 15,
2025                                             ______________________

                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge 
    


