 Case Number:  22SMCV02361    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING
 
DEPARTMENT          207
HEARING DATE       June 5, 2024
CASE NUMBER        22SMCV02361
MOTION                    Motion
to Vacate/Set Aside Default, Default Judgment and to Quash and Recall Writ of
Execution
MOVING PARTY      Defendant
Hansueli Overturf aka Hans Overturf
OPPOSING PARTY   Plaintiff Sally
Maslon
 
BACKGROUND
 
On November 11, 2022, Plaintiff Sally Maslon (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Defendants Hans Overturf (“Overturf”) and Sisu Holding Company,
Inc. (“Sisu”) for (1) breach of fiduciary duty (2) financial elder abuse, (3)
undue influence, (4) breach of oral contract, and (5) negligence. 
 
Overturf was allegedly Plaintiff’s financial planner, money manager,
option trader, crypto currency trader, and a stock, equity, commodity, and
securities investor. (Complaint ¶ 2.) Plaintiff claims Overturf mismanaged her
money, causing her to lose approximately $252,000. (Id. at ¶¶ 5-13.) 
 
On May 9, 2023, the Court entered default against Overturf.  On June 26, 2023, Overturf filed a motion to
set aside the default on the grounds that he has not resided at the Eureka,
California service address since 2015, when he moved to Switzerland.  On July 24, 2023, the Court denied Overturf’s
motion to set aside the default on the grounds that Overturf’s declaration
lacked credibility in light of the contrary evidence Plaintiff provided
demonstrating that Overturf resided at the Eureka address at the time of
service.  Thereafter, the Court entered default
judgment against Overturf on January 23, 2024, and issued a writ of execution
on the same date.
 
Overturf now moves again to set aside the default and default judgment
and to quash the writ of execution. 
Plaintiff opposes the motion.[1]  
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Plaintiff requests judicial notice
of the following exhibits:
 
1.    
Proof of Service of Summons on Sisu Holding Company,
Inc. (“Sisu”) filed April 4, 2023.
2.    
Proof of Service of Summons on Hansueli Overturf
(“Hans” or “Defendant”) filed April 4, 2023.
3.    
Denied Default Request as to Sisu for having “Faulty
Proof of Service” filed May 9, 2023.
4.    
Notice of Rejection of Default Entry as to Sisu filed May
15, 2023.
5.    
Declaration of Hans Overturf in Support of his Motion
to Set Aside Default (“Default Relief Motion”) filed June 26, 2023.
6.    
Declaration of Ho-El Park in Support of Default Relief
Motion filed June 26, 2023.
7.    
Declaration of Plaintiff in Opposition to Default
Relief Motion filed July 11, 2023.
8.    
Declaration of Plaintiff’s Counsel, Jeffrey A. Cohen in
Opposition to Default Relief Motion filed July 11, 2023.
9.    
Court’s Ruling on Default Relief Motion filed July 24,
2023.
10.  Ruling
on Defendant’s Evidentiary Objections filed July 24, 2023.
11.  Ruling
on Plaintiff’s Evidentiary Objections filed July 24, 2023.
12.  Plaintiff’s
Default Judgment filed January 23, 2024.
 
Judicial notice may be taken
of records of any court in this state. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).) 
Because the requested exhibits are all court records within this state,
the Court may take judicial notice of them. 
(Ibid.)   However, “while courts are free to take
judicial notice of the existence of each document in a court file, including
the truth of results reached, they may not take judicial notice of the truth of
hearsay statements in decisions and court files.  Courts may not take judicial notice of
allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation reports in court records
because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute and therefore require
formal proof.”  (Lockley v. Law Office
of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875,
882 [cleaned up].)  
 
Accordingly, the Court takes
judicial notice of the court records, including the truth of results reached
and legal implications of the records, the Court does not take judicial notice
of the truth of hearsay allegations in the requested exhibits.  
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
            With respect to Plaintiff’s
objections to the Declaration of Ho-El Park, the Court rules as follows:
 
1.    
Overruled
2.    
Overruled
3.    
Overruled
4.    
Overruled
5.    
Overruled
6.    
Overruled
7.    
Overruled
8.    
Overruled
9.    
Overruled
10.  Overruled
11.  Overruled
12.  Sustained
- Foundation
 
            With respect to Plaintiff’s
objections to the Declaration of Overturf, the Court rules as follows:
 
1.    
Overruled
2.    
Sustained – Foundation and Hearsay
3.    
Sustained – Hearsay
4.    
Sustained - Hearsay
 
ANALYSIS
 
            Code of Civil procedure section 473
“includes a discretionary provision, which applies permissively, and a
mandatory provision, which applies as of right.” (Minick v. City of Petaluma
(2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 15, 25 (hereafter Minick).)  “Section 473 is a remedial statute to be
“applied liberally” in favor of relief if the opposing party will not suffer
prejudice.  Because the law strongly
favors trial and disposition on the merits, any doubts in applying section 473
must be resolved in favor of the party seeking relief from default.  Unless inexcusable neglect is clear, the
policy favoring trial on the merits prevails.” 
(Minick, supra, 3 Cal.App.5th at p. 24 [cleaned up].)  
 


DISCRETIONARY
      RELIEF


 
The party or the legal
representative must seek such relief “within a reasonable time, in no case
exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was
taken.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b); see Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 980 [“because more than
six months had elapsed from the entry of default, and hence relief under
section 473 was unavailable”]; People v.
The North River Ins. Co. (2011) 200 Ca.App.4th 712, 721 [motion
for relief under section 473 must be brought “within a reasonable time, in no
case exceeding six months”]).  “The
six-month limit is mandatory; a court has no authority to grant relief under
section 473, subdivision (b), unless an application is made within the
six-month period.”  (Arambula v. Union Carbide Corp. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 333, 340,
citations omitted.) 
 
Here, the Clerk of the Court entered default as to Overturf on May 9,
2023.  
Defendant
filed this motion on February 22, 2024, which is nine months and thirteen days
after the Clerk of the Court’s entry of default.  Accordingly, the Court finds Overturf’s
motion to set aside the Clerk of the Court’s entry of default is untimely
regarding discretionary relief under Section 473.  
 
            And because Overturf’s motion is
untimely with respect to the Clerk of the Court’s entry of default, the Court
is thus unable to set aside the default judgment entered against Overturf
despite Overturf’s motion being timely in that regard.  (See Pulte Homes Corp. v. Williams
Mechanical, Inc. (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 267, 273 [finding that where a motion
to set aside default and default judgment is untimely as to the default but
still timely as to the default judgment, a court cannot set aside a default
judgment under Code of Civil Procedure section 473 “because that would be ‘an
idle act’”].)[2]  
 


MANDATORY
      RELIEF 


 
Notwithstanding any other requirements of this section, the court
shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months
after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an
attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk
against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a default
judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or
her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in
fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b), emphasis
added.)  Here, the Court entered
the default judgment against Overturf on January 23, 2024 and Overturn filed
his motion on February 22, 2024.  Thus,
with respect to the relief sought by Overturf under the mandatory provisions of
Section 473, the Court finds that Overturf’s motion is timely.  (See, e.g., Sugasawara v. Newland
(1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 294 [six-month limitation period for relief from default
based on attorney's neglect commences at time default judgment is rendered,
rather than earlier when default is entered].)[3]
 
            “In considering whether the trial
court properly denied relief under section 473(b), the first question is the
sufficiency of defendants' showing of attorney fault, if believed, to trigger
the mandatory relief provisions of that statute.”  (Standard Microsystems Corp. v. Winbond
Electronics Corp. (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 868, 896, disapproved on other
grounds by Even Zohar Construction & Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire
Townhouses, LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 830 (hereafter Standard).)  “Under section 473(b), a party is entitled to
relief from a default and resulting judgment whenever, on timely application
for relief, his attorney ‘attest[s] to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect’ in connection with the default or the judgment.”  (Ibid.)  
 
            In Standard, counsel for the
defendants attested that he believed the service of the summons on defendants
was defective and informed defendants that they were not required to answer the
summons under the laws of the United States. 
Defense counsel also did not advise the defendants to take any
affirmative action, for example move to quash the service of the summons.  Defense counsel also indicated that he
expected to “receive notice of any application for entry of default before
default was entered so that we could respond.” 
“He also acknowledged that he was responsible for advising defendants in
connection with, and preparing, the first motion for relief from the default;
that in doing so he “believed that the Court would set aside any default
because of an invalid service of process”; and that he omitted “any argument
showing that there was a ‘mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect’ in WEC and Winbond Israel's motions.” Although he did not separately point
it out, he also indisputably omitted from defendants' first motion any
invocation of the mandatory relief provisions of section 473(b), and the
required showing to support such an invocation.”  (Standard, supra, 179 Cal.App.4th at
p. 897.)   
 
            After considering the record before
the trial court, the appellate court held that “Counsel's mistakes, in
contrast, entitled them to relief . . . . 
[defense counsel's] affidavit and the record as a whole overwhelmingly
established that the default and ensuing judgment were the products of attorney
fault.”  (Standard, supra, 179
Cal.App.4th at p. 900.)   
 
            Further, “[t]he court's
determination of whether the default was caused by the attorney's mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect is in part a credibility determination.  Credibility is an issue for the fact finder,
we do not reweigh evidence or reassess the credibility of witnesses. When the
evidence gives rise to conflicting reasonable inferences, one of which supports
the findings of the trial court, the trial court's finding is conclusive on
appeal.”  (Cowan v. Krayzman
(2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 907, 915 [cleaned up].) 

 
Here, Defendant advances the
Declaration of Ho-El Park, Overturf’s former counsel of record (“Park”),[4]
to support the request for relief under Section 473.  But Park does not address the entry of the
default judgment other than as follows: 
“After learning this discrepancy, along with discrepancy in this Court’s
rulings on evidentiary objections as to Plaintiff’s process server, and also
having more time to obtain further evidence to prove Defendant’s permanent
residency in Switzerland, Defendant has decided to bring this instant motion to
set aside default and now, a default judgment.” 
(See Declaration of Ho-El Park, ¶ 17.) 
 In other words, Park does not assert
that the judgment was entered because of his mistake, inadvertence, surprise or
neglect.  
 
More important, Park does not attest
that because of his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect the Clerk of
the Court entered the default against Overturf. 
(See Declaration of Ho-El Park, ¶¶ 3-16.)  In fact, as Park declares, Overturf retained
his services on or about May 18, 2023, which is after the
default was entered on May 9, 2023.  (See
id at ¶¶ 3-4.)  Thus, the Court
determines that there was nothing Park did or could have done, whether based
upon mistake, inadvertence, surprise or neglect, that resulted in the default entered
against Overturf.  
 
Furthermore, to the extent
Overturf challenges the evidentiary rulings and factual findings made in connection
with the Court’s July 24, 2023 ruling, that challenge is also untimely.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (a) [“[w]hen
an application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and
refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms,
any party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of
entry of the order and based
upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make an application to the
same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify,
amend, or revoke the prior order”], emphasis added.)  
 
Here, the Clerk of the Court
mailed notice of the ruling to Overturf’s counsel on July 25, 2023 which is well
past the 10 days under Section 1008.  
 
CONCLUSION
 
            For the reasons stated, the Court denies
Overturf’s motion to vacate/set aside the default and default judgment and to
quash the writ of execution.  
 
            The Clerk of the Court shall provide
notice of the Court’s ruling.  
 
 
 
 
DATED:
June 5, 2024                                                                        ___________________________
Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 


