  Case Number:  21SMCV00182    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


June
  5, 2024




CASE NUMBER


21SMCV00182




MOTIONS


Motions
  to Quash Service of Summons




MOVING PARTIES


(1)  
  Defendants Amanda Staveley and Cantervale Ltd.
(2)  
  Defendants David Reuben and Simon Reuben
(3)  
  Defendant Koronus Holdings




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Keyway Pride Limited 



 
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises from a dispute over the rightful ownership of a
Beverly Hills property.  On January 25,
2021, Plaintiff Keyway Pride Limited LLC (“Plaintiff” or “Keyway”) filed a
verified complaint to cancel deed and quiet title against Defendant 25 Beverly
Park Circle Propco LLC (“Propco”).  
 
On November 17, 2023, with leave of the Court, Plaintiff filed the
Verified First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) adding Defendants Koronus Holdings
Designated Activity Company (“Koronus”); Simon Reuben (“Simon”); David Reuben
(“David”) (together, “the Reuben Defendants”); Amanda Staveley (“Staveley”);
PCP Capital Partners LLP (“PCP”); Cantervale Limited (“Cantervale”); and
Chicago Title Company (“Chicago Title”), alleging six causes of action: (1)
cancel deed and quiet title; (2) civil violation of Penal Code section 496; (3)
declaratory relief; (4) breach of contract; (5) gross negligence; and (6)
unfair competition.
 
Before the Court are now three Motions to Quash Service of the Summons
and FAC (“MTQ”), filed by the Moving Defendants (1) Staveley and Cantervale;
(2) David and Simon Reuben; and (3) Koronus. 

 
Plaintiff opposes the motions and the Moving Defendants reply.
 
REQUESTS
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Defendants’ Request for
Judicial Notice
 
            Defendant Koronus requests judicial
notice of the following:
 
Exhibit
1: Grant Deed dated May 18, 2017, that was recorded in the Los Angeles
County Recorder’s Office as Instrument No. 20170595928 on May 31, 2017.
 
Exhibit
2: Deed of Trust and Assignment of Rents dated July 23, 2018, recorded in
the Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office as Instrument No. 20180746805 on July
26, 2018.
 
Exhibit
3: First Amendment to Deed of Trust and Assignment of Rents dated July 23,
2019, recorded in the Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office as Instrument No.
2019039509 on September 11, 2019.
 
Exhibit
4: Grant Deed dated November 17, 2020, that was recorded in the Los Angeles
County Recorder’s Office as Instrument No. 20201498615 on November 20, 2020.
 
Exhibit
5: Substitution of Trustee and Full Reconveyance dated November 18, 2020,
recorded in the official records of the Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office as
Instrument No. 20201498616 on November 20, 2020.
 
Exhibit
6: Keyway Pride Limited LLC’s February 23, 2021, Statement of Information
filed with the Secretary of State of California.
 
            Similarly, the Reuben Defendants
request judicial notice of:
 
Exhibit
1: Grant Deed dated May 18, 2017, that was recorded in the Los Angeles
County Recorder’s Office as Instrument No. 20170595928 on May 31, 2017 [the
same as Koronus’s RJN Ex. 1.]
 
Exhibit
2: Deed of Trust and Assignment of Rents dated July 23, 2018, recorded in
the Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office as Instrument No. 20180746805 on July
26, 2018 [the same as Koronus’s RJN Ex. 2.]
 
Exhibit
3: Grant Deed dated November 17, 2020, that was recorded in the Los Angeles
County Recorder’s Office as Instrument No. 20201498615 on November 20, 2020
[the same as Koronus’s RJN Ex. 4.]
 
Exhibit
4: Keyway Pride Limited LLC’s February 23, 2021, Statement of Information
filed with the Secretary of State of California [the same as Koronus’s RJN Ex.
6.]
 
For ease of reference, the Court refers to these exhibits using
Koronus’s Exhibit numbering.  
 
With respect to Exhibits 1-5, courts
can take judicial notice of the existence and recordation of real property
records, including deeds, if authenticity is not reasonably disputed.  (Fontenot v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
(2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 256, 264-265.) 
“The official act of recordation and the common use of a notary public
in the execution of such documents assure their reliability, and the
maintenance of the documents in the recorder’s office makes their existence and
text capable of ready confirmation, thereby placing such documents beyond
reasonable dispute.”  (Ibid.)  Moreover, courts can take judicial notice not
only of the existence and recordation of recorded documents but also matters
that can be deduced from the documents, including the parties, dates, and legal
consequences of recorded documents relating to real estate transactions.  (Ibid.)  Therefore, the Court takes judicial
notice of Exhibits 1-5.
 
With regard to Exhibit 6, Koronus and the Reuben Defendants request
judicial notice pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivisions (c) and
(h).  Subdivision (c) permits courts to
take judicial notice of “[o]fficial acts of the legislative, executive, and
judicial departments of the United States and of any state of the United
States.”  Subdivision (h) provides
judicial notice may be taken of “[f]acts and propositions that are not
reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate determination
by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.  
 
Official notices, statements, and certificates made by the Secretary
of State and by the Franchise Tax Board are properly the subject of judicial
notice as documents reflecting official acts of the state’s executive
department, pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (c).  (Friends of Shingle Springs Interchange,
Inc. v. County of El Dorado (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 1470, 1483–1484.)  However, “materials prepared by private
parties and merely on file with the state agencies” may not be properly
judicially noticed as an official act of a legislative, executive, or judicial
department of the United States or any state of the United States.  (People v. Thacker (1985) 175
Cal.App.3d 594, 598.)
 
Moreover, Courts may not take judicial notice of the truth hearsay
statements contained in documents filed by the parties.  (See, e.g., Lockley v. Law Office of
Cantrell, Green, Pekish, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875,
882.)  Therefore, while the Court could
take judicial notice of Exhibit 6 as evidence that Keyway filed the document
with the Secretary of State on February 23, 2021, or that it made the
statements contained therein, the Court cannot take judicial notice of the
truth of those statements.  In briefing,
Koronus and the Reuben Defendants rely on Exhibit 6 as evidence that Keyway’s
manager, G Robinson & Company LLC is located in New Jersey.  (See Koronus MTQ at p. 15, Reuben Defendants’
MTQ at p. 15.)  Therefore, the Court
denies the requests to take judicial notice of Exhibit 6.
 
Plaintiff’s Request for Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiff requests judicial notice of the following:
 
Exhibit
1: Section 1139 entitled “Service of documents on company” of the United
Kingdom’s Companies Act 2006.
 
Exhibit
2: Section 1140 entitled “Service of document on company” of the United
Kingdom’s Companies Act 2006.
 
Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (f) permits courts to take
judicial notice of “[t]he law of an organization of nations and of foreign
nations and public entities in foreign nations.”  Therefore, the Court takes Judicial Notice of
Plaintiff’s Exhibits 1-2.
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
            The Court rules as follows with
respect to Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections:
 
1.    
Overruled
2.    
Overruled
3.    
Overruled
4.    
Overruled
5.    
Overruled
6.    
Overruled
7.    
Overruled
8.    
Overruled
9.    
Overruled
10.  Overruled
11.  Overruled
12.  Overruled
13.  Overruled
14.  Overruled
15.  Overruled
16.  Overruled
17.  Overruled
18.  Overruled
19.  Overruled
20.  Overruled
21.  Overruled
22.  Overruled
23.  Overruled
24.  Overruled
25.  Overruled
26.  Overruled
27.  Overruled
28.  Overruled
29.  Overruled
30.  Overruled
31.  Overruled
 
LEGAL
STANDARDS
            
A.    SERVICE
 
For service on persons within California, generally, service of
summons and complaint must be done by personal service.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.10.)  However, “[i]f a copy of the summons and
complaint cannot with reasonable diligence be personally delivered to the
person to be served,” they may be served by leaving a copy of the summons and
complaint at the person’s dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual place of
business, or usual mailing address with a competent member of the household or
person apparently in charge of the office, place of business, or usual mailing
address, at least 18 years old, by informing them of the contents, and
thereafter mailing a copy to the person at the place where the copy was
left.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.20, subd.
(b).)
 
Under California law, “[a] summons may be served
on a business organization, form unknown, by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint
during usual office hours with the person who is apparently in charge of the
office of that business organization, and by thereafter mailing a copy of the
summons and complaint by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the person to be
served at the place where a copy of the summons and complaint was left. Service
of a summons in this manner is deemed complete on the 10th day after the
mailing.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.95.)
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 413.10, subdivision (c), a
summons shall be served on a person “[o]utside the United States, as provided
in this chapter or as directed by the court in which the action is pending, or,
if the court before or after service finds that the service is reasonably
calculated to give actual notice, as prescribed by the law of the place where
the person is served or as directed by the foreign authority in response to a
letter rogatory.  These rules are subject
to the provisions of the Convention of the ‘Service Abroad of Judicial and
Extrajudicial Documents’ in Civil or Commercial Matters (Hague Service
Convention).”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
413.10, subd. (c).)  The methods
enumerated in Section 413.10, subdivision (c) for serving defendants abroad all
require transmission of documents abroad, and therefore are preempted by the
Hague Service Convention as to defendants in signatory countries.  (Kott v. Superior Court (1996) 45
Cal.App.4th 1126, 1136.)
 
“The primary innovation of the Hague Service Convention — set out in
Articles 2–7 — is that it requires each state to establish a central authority
to receive requests for service of documents from other countries.”  (Water Splash, Inc. v. Menon (2017)
581 U.S. 271, 275 [cleaned up].) 
“Submitting a request to a central authority is not, however, the only
method of service approved by the Convention. For example, Article 8 permits
service through diplomatic and consular agents; Article 11 provides that any two
states can agree to methods of service not otherwise specified in the
Convention; and Article 19 clarifies that the Convention does not preempt any
internal laws of its signatories that permit service from abroad via methods
not otherwise allowed by the Convention.” 
(Ibid.)  Article 10 of the
Convention provides: 
 
Provided the State of destination does not
object, the present Convention shall not interfere with—
 
(a)   the
freedom to send judicial documents, by postal channels, directly to persons
abroad,
 
(b)   the
freedom of judicial officers, officials or other competent persons of the State
of origin to effect service of judicial documents directly through the judicial
officers, officials or other competent persons of the State of destination,
 
(c)   the
freedom of any person interested in a judicial proceeding to effect service of
judicial documents directly through the judicial officers, officials or other
competent persons of the State of destination.”
 
(Ibid.)  
 
            In addition to
service through the Hague Service Convention’s Central Authority, the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (“UK”) also permits “direct”
service.[1]  
 
            A state may also
exercise jurisdiction over an individual who consents to such
jurisdiction.  (Nobel Farms, Inc. v.
Pasero (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 654, 658.) 
“Express consent to a court's jurisdiction will occur by generally
appearing in an action or by a valid forum-selection clause designating a
particular forum for dispute resolution regardless of residence.”  (Ibid. [cleaned up].)  “Consent to a court's jurisdiction may also
be implied by conduct.”  (Ibid.)  For example, a nonresident plaintiff who
commences an action thereby submits to that “[c]ourt’s personal jurisdiction on
any cross-complaint filed against him by the defendant.”  (Ibid.)  “Similarly, a
nonresident plaintiff who has filed a suit in California against particular
parties has consented to jurisdiction in California when these same parties
later sue him in a related action.”  (Sea
Foods Co., Ltd. v. O.M. Foods Co., Ltd. (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 769,
786.)  “By choosing a particular forum,
[the] plaintiff is considered to have voluntarily submitted to the court's
jurisdiction ‘for all purposes for which justice to the defendant requires his
presence.”  (Ibid.)
 
B.   
PERSONAL JURISDICTION
 
“A defendant, on or before
the last day of his or her time to plead or within any further time that the
court may for good cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion for one
or more of the following purposes:  (1)
To quash service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court
over him or her.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
418.10, subd. (a)(1).)  
 
“[W]hen jurisdiction is
challenged by a nonresident defendant, the burden of proof is upon the
plaintiff to demonstrate that ‘minimum contacts’ exist between the defendant
and the forum state to justify imposition of personal jurisdiction.” (Mihlon
v. Superior Court (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 703, 710.)  It is thus upon the plaintiff to demonstrate
by a preponderance of the evidence that all jurisdictional criteria are met. (Ziller
Electronics Lab GmbH v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 1222, 1232.)   
 
Moreover, “on a challenge to
personal jurisdiction by a motion to quash, the plaintiff has the burden of
proving, by a preponderance of the evidence, the factual bases justifying the
exercise of jurisdiction.”  (ViaView,
Inc. v. Retzlaff (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 198, 209–210 (hereafter ViaView).)  “The plaintiff must come forward with
affidavits and other competent evidence to carry this burden and cannot simply
rely on allegations in an unverified complaint.”  (Id. at p. 210.)  If plaintiff meets this burden, “it becomes
the defendant’s burden to demonstrate that the existence of jurisdiction would
be unreasonable.” (Buchanan v. Soto (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 1353, 1362.)
 
California’s long-arm statute
grants its courts the power to assert personal jurisdiction over out-of-state
parties to the maximum extent that the state and federal constitutions allow.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 410.10.) Under the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the United States Constitution, state courts may exercise personal
jurisdiction over nonresidents who have “minimum contacts” with the forum
state. (International Shoe Co. v. Washington (1945) 326 U.S. 310, 316.) Minimum
contacts exist when the relationship between the nonresident and the forum
state is such that the exercise of jurisdiction does not offend “traditional
notions of fair play and substantial justice.” (Ibid.) The primary focus
of the personal jurisdiction inquiry is the relationship of the defendant to
the forum state. (Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. v. Superior Court of California,
San Francisco County (2017) 582 U.S. 255 (hereafter Bristol-Myers).)

 
“Minimum contacts exist where
the defendant’s conduct in the forum state is such that he should reasonably
anticipate being subject to suit there, and it is reasonable and fair to force
him to do so.” (F. Hoffman-La Roche, Ltd. v. Superior Court (2005) 130
Cal.App.4th 782, 795, citing World–Wide Volkswagen Corp. v. Woodson (1980)
444 U.S. 286, 297; Kulko v. California Superior Court (1978) 436 U.S.
84, 92; Pavlovich v. Superior Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 262, 269.) 
 
Personal jurisdiction may be
either general or specific. General (also called all-purpose) jurisdiction
means that a defendant's contacts with a state are sufficiently extensive that
the “defendant is ‘essentially at home,’ ” and the court may exercise
jurisdiction over the defendant regardless of whether the claims relate to the
forum state.  (Ford Motor Company v.
Montana Eighth Judicial District Court (2021) 141 S.Ct. 1017, 1024; Goodyear
Dunlop Tires Operations, S. A. v. Brown (2011) 564 U.S. 915, 919.) 
 

Specific personal
jurisdiction hinges on the “relationship among the defendant, the forum, and
the litigation.” (Daimler AG v. Bauman (2014) 571 U.S.117, 133 [cleaned
up]; accord Walden v. Fiore (2014) 571 U.S. 277, 284.)  Such jurisdiction requires “an affiliation
between the forum and the underlying controversy, principally, an activity or
an occurrence that takes place in the forum State and is therefore subject to
the State’s regulation.” (Bristol-Myers, supra, 582 U.S. at p. 262
[cleaned up].) Consistent with the constraints of due process, “the defendant’s
suit-related conduct must create a substantial connection with the forum
State.” (Walden v. Fiore, supra, 571 U.S. at p. 284.) 
 
Further, “a nonresident
defendant may be subject to the court's specific jurisdiction if three
requirements are met: (1) the defendant has purposefully availed itself of
forum benefits with respect to the matter in controversy; (2) the controversy
is related to or arises out of the defendant's contacts with the forum; and (3)
the exercise of jurisdiction would be reasonable and comports with fair play
and substantial justice.”  (ViaView, supra,
1 Cal.App.5th at p. 216.)

 
ANALYSIS
 
A.    Cantervale’s
Motion to Quash
 
Cantervale is a private limited liability company formed and
headquartered in London, England. 
(Staveley Decl. ¶ 3.)  The
Cantervale proof of “personal” service indicates service was effectuated on
January 12, 2024 in accordance with the Hague Service Convention by leaving the
summons with an occupant at Cantervale’s Registered Office, Mr. Ghodoussi.
 
UK law provides:
 
Personal service on a company or other corporation 
 
6.1 Personal service on a registered company or corporation in
accordance with rule 6.5(3) is effected by leaving a document with a person
holding a senior position. 
 
6.2 Each of the following persons is a person holding a senior
position – 
 
(1) in respect of a registered company or corporation, a director, the
treasurer, the secretary of the company or corporation, the chief executive, a
manager or other officer of the company or corporation; and 
 
(2) in respect of a corporation which is not a registered company, in
addition to any of the persons set out in sub-paragraph (1), the mayor, the
chairman, the president, a town clerk or similar officer of the corporation.
 
(See Ex. C to Gilchrest Decl. in support of Motion to Set Aside
Defaults of Staveley and Cantervale.)
 
            Amanda Staveley, Cantervale’s
principal stated in her March 14, 2024 Declaration (filed on March 20, 2024):
 
2. I am not a citizen of the United States. I am a citizen of England
and reside in London. I also maintain a residence in Dubai. I have never
resided in the United States. I vacationed in California once, before I got
married in 2011. I have never conducted business in California. And I have
never owned, leased, or encumbered any property in California. 
 
3. I formed Cantervale Limited in London, England, as a private
limited liability company on January 2, 2018. Cantervale Limited is
headquartered in London. Since its formation, I have been the sole shareholder
and director of Cantervale Limited. 
 
4. I formed Cantervale Limited for the purpose of acquiring a minority
ownership interest in Newcastle United Football Club (“Newcastle United”).
Newcastle United is based in Newcastle upon Tyne, England. Newcastle United
plays soccer in the English Premier League (“EPL”). Since Cantervale became
part-owner of Newcastle United, EPL soccer matches have been played in England
only. Newcastle United has not played any soccer matches in California,
friendly or otherwise, since Cantervale became a minority owner of the club in
2021. 
 
5. Cantervale Limited is not a resident or citizen of the United
States, including California. 
 
6. Cantervale Limited has never owned, leased, occupied, or encumbered
any property (including bank accounts) in the United States, including
California. 
 
7. Cantervale Limited has never conducted business or had employees in
California. 
 
8. I was not served with Keyway Pride Limited LLC’s Summons and First
Amended Complaint on behalf of Cantervale Limited. Nor have I received copies
of them in the mail.
 
9. I have read the “Certificate – Attestation” and Witness Statement
of Nigel Roger Walker. Mr. Walker states that the “Service Documents” were
given to “Mr. Ghodoussi” to pass on to me. Mr. Ghodoussi is not a director or
shareholder in Cantervale Limited. Mr. Ghodoussi is not an employee or agent of
Cantervale Limited. Nor is he authorized to accept service of process on behalf
of Cantervale Limited.
 
(Staveley
Decl. ¶¶ 2-9.)
 
Thus, the Staveley declaration establishes that Mr. Ghodoussi does not
hold a senior position with Cantervale.
 
However, UK law also provides a document may be served “by leaving it
at, or sending it by post to, the company’s registered address[.]”  (Plaintiff’s RJN Ex. 1.)  Here, the proof of service establishes that
the FAC and summons were left with Mr. Godoussi at Cantervale’s registered
service address, and Cantervale does not dispute that the address in question
is Cantervale’s registered service address. 

 
Therefore, service on Cantervale was proper.
 
Cantervale
also argues that California has no personal jurisdiction over it because it did
not purposefully avail itself of the forum. 
In support, Cantervale cites several out-of-state nonbinding federal
district court cases standing for the proposition that a party does not
purposefully avail itself of the forum merely by making telephone calls or
sending letters to a resident of the forum.[2]
 
Cantervale
also references Coast Equities, LLC v. Right Buy Properties, LLC (9th
Cir. 2017) 791 Fed.Appx.611, an unpublished 9th Circuit Case.  Besides the fact that Coast Equities is
unpublished and therefore not binding, it is also factually
distinguishable.  There, the purchaser of
a Florida property resided in Oregon, and communications with the purchaser
alone were insufficient to confer personal jurisdiction on the nonresident.  The Court elaborated that “The contract was a
one-time transfer of real estate that had no future consequences tying Right
Buy and Mackie to Oregon after closing.” 
(Id. at p. 613.)  
 
The
Coast Equities opinion cites to Peterson v. Kennedy (9th Cir.
1985) 771 F.2d 1244, for the proposition that emails and telephone
correspondence are insufficient to confer personal jurisdiction.  There, a law student purportedly gave the
plaintiff, an NFL player, bad legal advice regarding his contract with Tampa
Bay.  Prior to playing for Tampa Bay, the
plaintiff had played in college in San Diego and had then played for the Los
Angeles Rams.  The 9th Circuit held that
the defendant’s emails and telephone calls to the plaintiff while the plaintiff
was at his home in California were insufficient to confer personal
jurisdiction.  (Id. at p. 1262.) 
 
By
contrast, here, Cantervale, and its principal, Staveley, were deeply involved
in the Koronus loan, which was secured by a Deed of Trust on the California
property.  Specifically, in addition to
brokering the loan, negotiating the terms of the loan, and finalizing the
closing of the loan, Staveley (apparently through Cantervale), embarrassed by
the fact that Keyway had missed payments, also advanced several payments on the
Koronus loan, which was later reimbursed by a wire for $2,323,497.38 from the
proceeds of the sale of the home to Propco. 
(Supplemental Staveley Decl. ¶¶ 4-8.) 
Moreover, Staveley continued to be involved in enforcement efforts and
even negotiations regarding the instant lawsuit, long after the loan
closed.  (Supp. Staveley Decl. ¶ 9; Ex. 3
to Simmons Decl.)  
 
Thus,
Staveley, (through Cantervale) not only brokered, negotiated, and closed the
loan, but also made several payments on the Koronus loan for Keyway, doing
business in California, which was secured by a deed of trust against the California
property, and then Cantervale received reimbursement for those payments from
the proceeds of the sale of that California property to Propco.  As such, Cantervale engaged in numerous financial
transactions concerning real property in California, and demonstrated a deep personal
involvement in the loan and ultimate sale of the property to Propco, that
extended long after the loan closed and even into negotiations concerning this
lawsuit.  These actions demonstrate
transactions with the forum that are much more than simply having
communications with someone who happens to be in California in a transaction
otherwise unrelated to the forum.  
 
Therefore,
Cantervale has purposefully availed itself of the forum for the purposes of
this litigation, which centers around the Koronus loan and transfer of the
property to Propco.  
 
For
the same reason, because of the extent of Cantervale’s financial involvement in
the transactions, traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice
permit exercising personal jurisdiction over Cantervale, notwithstanding that
it is inconvenient for an overseas entity to participate in California
litigation.  Factors to be considered in
determining whether the exercise of personal jurisdiction over a nonresident
defendant is reasonable include (1) the burden on the nonresident defendant;
(2) California’s interest in adjudicating the dispute; (3) Plaintiff’s interest
in obtaining convenient and effective relief; (4) judicial economy; and (5)
furtherance of social policies.  Here, California
has a strong interest in adjudicating this dispute, which involves transactions
between California companies Propco and Keyway regarding real property in
California, Keyway has a strong interest in convenient and effective relief in
California, and judicial economy will be best served by adjudicating the
dispute against all involved parties in one lawsuit.  Thus, the Volkswagen factors favor
exercising personal jurisdiction.
 
As such, the Court denies Cantervale’s Motion to Quash.
 
B.    Staveley’s
Motion to Quash
 
            Staveley is a citizen of England who
resides in London and in Dubai. 
(Staveley Decl. ¶ 2.)  The
Staveley proof of “personal” service indicates service was effectuated on
February 7, 2024 in accordance with the Hague Service Convention by leaving the
summons with “PA Joanne Mills” at Staveley’s residential address pursuant to
Section 1140 of UK’s Companies Action 2006.
 
            Section 1140 provides, “A document
may be served on a person to whom this section applies by leaving it at, or
sending it by post to, the person's registered address.”  (Plaintiff’s RJN Ex. 2.)  
 
Thus, service on Staveley was proper.
 
Moreover, as discussed above, due to the extent of Staveley’s personal
involvement with the Koronus loan, which included brokering the loan,
negotiating the terms of the loan, closing the loan, advancing several payments
on the loan, receiving and disbursing payments from the sale of the property to
Propco, and ongoing negotiations regarding the transaction, the Court finds it
has specific personal jurisdiction over Staveley as well and denies Staveley’s
Motion to Quash.
 
C.    Koronus’
Motion to Quash
 
Koronus is incorporated and has its principal place of business in
Ireland.  (Walsh Decl. ¶ 2.)  Koronus contends there is no personal
jurisdiction over it because it was not involved in the sale of the property to
Propco.  
 
However, Koronus concedes it loaned money to Keyway, a California
company, secured by a Deed of Trust and Assignment of Rents against the
California property.  (Koronus MTQ at p.
10; see also Robinson Decl. ¶¶ 3-4 and Exs. B-F.)  Moreover, the Koronus loan was paid off in
full from the proceeds of the allegedly fraudulent sale of the property to
Propco.  (Gershman Decl., Ex. 7; RJN Ex.
5.)  “[H]olding a deed of trust
represents a significant contact with the forum” sufficient to demonstrate
purposeful availment where the party also has the right to collect rent under
the deed of trust.  (See, e.g., Easter
v. American West Financial (9th Cir. 2004) 381 F.3d 948, 961; Sher v.
Johnson (9th Cir. 1990) 911 F.2d 1357, 1363.)  
 
Moreover, Koronus’s principals, the Reuben Defendants, are also
alleged to be principals of Propco.  (FAC
¶ 12.)  Koronus is alleged to have (1)
improperly directed a large portion of the loan funds to a Qatari businessman
with whom the Reuben Defendants have a business relationship, for use in
renovating a New York property unrelated to Keyway; and (2) profited from the allegedly
fraudulent sale of the property to Propco because the sale proceeds were used
to pay off the Koronus loan, while Koronus’s principals also benefited from the
sale of the property to Propco, by virtue of their alleged control and
ownership interest in Propco.
 
Thus, contrary to Koronus’ contention, there is a close nexus between
the Koronus loan secured by a deed of trust and assignment of rents for the
California property, and the ultimate, allegedly fraudulent transfer of the
property to the Reuben Defendants’ California company, Propco.  
 
Finally, as discussed above, the Volkswagen factors favor the
reasonableness of a California court adjudicating the dispute involving the
Koronus loan to California company Keyway, which was secured by a deed of trust
for the California property, which was ultimately sold to California company
Propco to pay off the loan, notwithstanding that it may be inconvenient for
Koronus to litigate overseas.  (See Ex. G
to Schack Decl.)
            
D.    Reuben
Defendants’ Motion to Quash
 
            The Reuben Defendants are British
citizens who currently reside in Monaco. (Ex. H to Schack Decl. at CTC1071; David
Decl. ¶ 3; Simon Decl. ¶ 3.)  The Reuben
Defendants argue that service of the summons and FAC on them was improper,
because it was left with a personal assistant at the London office for Motcomb,
a company the Reuben Defendants neither own nor work for, and who is not their
agent for service of process.  (David
Decl. ¶¶ 9-11; Simon Decl. ¶¶ 10-12.)
 
            However, service under UK law is
proper by leaving the documents at the person’s registered address.  The proof of service indicates that on the
date of service, the address where the summons and FAC were left was the Reuben
Defendants’ registered address, and the Reuben Defendants have introduced no
evidence to dispute this.
 
            In Reply, the Reuben Defendants
appear to concede that service was proper, arguing instead that Plaintiff
unreasonably delayed in producing the proof of service.  In any event, the proof of service has now
been produced, it demonstrates that service was proper, and the Reuben
Defendants have not demonstrated otherwise.
 
            The Reuben Defendants also argue
that this Court lacks personal jurisdiction over them.  However, Simon authorized the Koronus Loan to
California company Keyway, secured by a deed of trust on the real property
located in California.  Simon also
approved the transfer of the property to Propco, a California company in which
the Reuben Defendants are principals.           Further, the Reuben Defendants’
passports were provided to Defendant Chicago Title in connection with the
transfer, and they were listed as “person[s] conducting transaction for
another.”  (Ex. G to Schack Decl. [PROPCO_00005292;
PROPCO_00005898]; Ex. H to Schack Decl. [CTC1071].)  In addition, the Reuben Defendants’ agents
Eileen Sawyer and Eric Orenstein, purported to act on behalf of both Propco and
Koronus in connection with the loan and the sale.  (Ex. G to Schack Decl.)  
 
            As such, the Reuben Defendants
purposefully availed themselves of the laws and protections of the state of
California, and those transactions are directly at issue in this lawsuit.  Further, as discussed above, in light of the
extent of the Reuben Defendants’ involvement in the loan to a California
company, Keyway, secured by a deed of trust and assignment of rents related to
California real property, at least some of the proceeds of which were used to
renovate an unrelated New York property they may be involved with, plus their
involvement in the subsequent transfer of the California property to their
other company, Propco, the proceeds of which went to pay off the Koronus loan,
exercising personal jurisdiction over the Reuben Defendants is reasonable under
the circumstances, notwithstanding that it may be inconvenient for them to
litigate overseas.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Therefore, the Court denies all
three Motions to Quash filed by (1) Staveley and Cantervale; (2) Koronus; and
(3) the Reuben Defendants.  Service on Staveley,
Cantervale, and the Reuben Defendants was proper under UK law, and the Court
has personal jurisdiction over all moving defendants, as their extensive transactions
with California companies Keyway and Propco involving the Koronus loan, the
Deed of Trust and Assignment of Rents, and ultimate transfer of California real
property at the heart of this dispute demonstrate purposeful availment and that
these transactions are directly related to the instant litigation.  Moreover, California’s interest in adjudicating
the dispute centering around California real property and California companies
Keyway and Propco, Plaintiff’s interest in adjudicating the dispute in
California, and judicial economy outweigh the moving defendants’ inconvenience
in litigating overseas, making the exercise of personal jurisdiction
reasonable.  
 
            Moving Defendants shall file and
serve Answers to the FAC on or before June 26, 2024.
 
            Plaintiff Keyway shall provide
notice of the Court’s ruling and file the notice with a proof of service
forthwith.
 
 
DATED:  June 5, 2024                                                           ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 


