 Case Number:  24SMCV00306    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


June 5, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV00306




MOTIONS


Demurrer and Motion to Strike Complaint




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants Alliance Property Management, Inc. and Great
  for Six, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


none



 
MOTIONS
 
On January 23, 2024, Plaintiff David Schlosberg (“Plaintiff”) filed
suit against Defendants Alliance Property Management, Inc. and Great for Six
LLC (“Defendants”) alleging four causes of action for (1) wrongful eviction;
(2) vacate void judgment; (3) breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment of the
premises; and (4) negligence.  Defendants
now demur to the first three causes of action[1] on
the grounds that they fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e).  Defendants also move to strike all claims for
damages, including punitive damages, from the complaint.  Both motions are unopposed.
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Defendants request judicial notice
of the following:
 
1.    
Exhibit A: Unlawful Detainer Complaint (the “UD
Complaint”) filed on February 9, 2023, as case number 23SMUD00248.
 
2.    
Exhibit B: 
Answer to the UD Complaint filed by Mr. Schlosberg.
 
3.    
Exhibit C: Judgment and Special Verdict in the
UD action.
 
4.    
Exhibit D: An action filed by Plaintiff against
Alliance and others seeking damages related to his tenancy, as case number
23SMCV02310.
 
5.    
Exhibit E: A Motion Notwithstanding the Verdict
(“JNOV”) relating to the Judgment and Special Verdict in the Unlawful Detainer
action.
 
6.    
Exhibit F: The decision rendered on the JNOV
against Plaintiff and in favor of Alliance.
 
Judicial notice may be taken
of records of any court in this state. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).) 
Because the requested exhibits are all court records within this state,
the Court may take judicial notice of them. 
(Ibid.)   However, “while courts are free to take
judicial notice of the existence of each document in a court file, including
the truth of results reached, they may not take judicial notice of the truth of
hearsay statements in decisions and court files.  Courts may not take judicial notice of
allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation reports in court records
because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute and therefore require
formal proof.”  (Lockley v. Law Office
of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875,
882 [cleaned up].)  Accordingly, the
Court takes judicial notice of the court records, including the truth of
results reached and legal implications of the records, the Court does not take
judicial notice of the truth of hearsay allegations in the requested pleadings.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if on consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
Defendant demurs to the first three causes of action on the grounds
that the issues were already adjudicated in connection with a prior Unlawful
Detainer (“UD”) action.  (See RJN Exs. A-C,
E & F.)  Indeed, the Complaint
alleges:
 
7. Plaintiff executed a Fixed-Term Residential
Lease ("Lease") on or around January 28, 2006 concerning real
property located at 846 4th Street, Unit #103, Santa Monica, CA 90403
("Subject Property"). Alliance Property Management, Inc. is
authorized agent for "Landlord" and owner of the property, Great For
Six LLC ("Landlord"). The Lease includes a provision for attorney fees.
 
8. On or around January 26, 2023, defendants
Alliance and Landlord (collectively referred to herein as
"Defendants") caused to serve Plaintiff with a (curable) THREE (3)
DAY NOTICE TO PERFORM OR QUIT ("Notice") which required Plaintiff to
remove "all unauthorized  occupants
from the Premises and to permanently cease and desist all subletting ... and to
utilize the Premises as your primary residence, or to vacate and return
possession of the Premises to the 
Landlord." Defendants did not cause to serve a (non-curable) THREE
(3) DAY TO QUIT.
 
9. Defendants caused to file unlawful detainer
case 23SMUD00248 on February 9, 2023, based on the 3-day notice to perform
covenants or quit. Defendants checked item 7.b. "The tenancy 3 described
in 6 is subject to the Tenant Protection Act of 2019." Defendants checked
item 9.a.(5) which stated: "3-day notice to perform covenants or quit (not
applicable if item 7b checked).
 
10. Judgment was entered against Plaintiff on
9/12/23. Plaintiff informed Defendants on or around 11/28/23 that the judgment
was void because the unlawful detainer complaint was void for failure to serve
a 3-day notice to quit in compliance with the Tenant Protection Act. Defendants
refused to vacate the judgment or otherwise stay the judgment in any manner. 
 
11. Plaintiff was evicted from the subject
property on or around 11/24/23. Plaintiff has been harmed by Defendants'
wrongful eviction and is entitled to damages as a matter of law.
 
(Complaint
¶¶ 7-11.)  
 
            “A litigant may collaterally attack
a final judgment for lack of personal or subject matter jurisdiction, or for
granting relief that the court had no power to grant, but may not collaterally
attack a final judgment for nonjurisdictional errors.”  (Estate of Buck (1994) 29 Cal.App.4th
1846, 1854.)  
 
            Personal jurisdiction in an Unlawful
Detainer action is conferred by virtue of service of the summons and unlawful
detainer complaint, not the 3-Day Notice to Quit, and whether Plaintiff was
properly served with the 3-day Notice to Quit is an element of an unlawful
detainer claim, not a jurisdictional prerequisite.  (Borsuk v. Appellate Division of Superior
Court (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 607, 612-613 [“Those courts and treatises that
have […] described the service of the three-day notice as jurisdictional are
incorrect”].)
 
            Therefore, Plaintiff’s allegations
that only a 3-Day Notice to Perform or Quit and no subsequent 3-Day Notice to
Quit was served following Plaintiff’s failure to perform, in violation of the
Tenant Protection Act, does not allege a jurisdictional defect on the
face of the judgment that renders the judgment void and subject to collateral
attack.  
 
Therefore, the Court sustains
Defendants’ demurrer to the first three causes of action.
 
2.     MOTION
TO STRIKE
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)  
 
In ruling on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth.” 
(Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  To
state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the
elements set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College
Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  Per Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must
allege that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)   As set forth in the Civil Code, 
 
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended
by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which
is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others.  (2)
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.  (3) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
(Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1)-(3), emphasis added.)  
 
Further, a plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to support a
conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression, fraud or malice.  To wit, there is a heightened pleading
requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages.  (See Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)  “When
nondeliberate injury is charged, allegations that the defendant’s conduct was
wrongful, willful, wanton, reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for
exemplary damages; such allegations do not charge malice.  When a defendant must produce evidence in
defense of an exemplary damage claim, fairness demands that he receive adequate
notice of the kind of conduct charged against him.” (G. D. Searle & Co.
v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29 [cleaned up].)  In Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v.
Snepp, the Court of Appeal noted that the plaintiffs’ assertions related to
their claim for punitive damages were “insufficient to meet the specific
pleading requirement.”  (Anschutz
Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643
[plaintiffs alleged “the conduct of Defendants was intentional, and done
willfully, maliciously, with ill will towards Plaintiffs, and with conscious
disregard for Plaintiff's rights. Plaintiff's injuries were exacerbated by the
malicious conduct of Defendants. Defendants' conduct justifies an award of
exemplary and punitive damages”]; see also Grieves
v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [“The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages.  Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim”].)  
 
Moreover, “the imposition of punitive damages upon a corporation is
based upon its own fault.  It is not imposed vicariously by virtue of the
fault of others.”  (City Products Corp. v. Globe Indemnity Co.
(1979) 88 Cal.App.3d 31, 36.)  “Corporations are legal entities which do
not have minds capable of recklessness, wickedness, or intent to injure or
deceive.  An award of punitive damages against a corporation therefore
must rest on the malice of the corporation’s employees.  But the law does
not impute every employee’s malice to the corporation.  Instead, the
punitive damages statute requires proof of malice among corporate
leaders:  the officers, directors, or managing agents.”  (Cruz v.
Home Base (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 160, 167 [cleaned up].)  
 
            Here, because the Court sustains
Defendants’ demurrer to the first three causes of action, Plaintiff’s claims
for damages related to those causes of action, including the punitive damages claim
asserted in connection with the First Cause of Action, are moot. 
 
            The only claims for damages that
remain at issue are alleged in connection with the Fourth Cause of Action for
negligence.  Defendants base their
request to strike such non-punitive damages claims on the same grounds as the
demurrer to the first three causes of action –res judicata bars the claims which
arise from Plaintiff’s tenancy with Defendants. 
Because Defendant did not demur to the Fourth Cause of Action, the Court
declines to strike the request for damages on that basis.   
            
3.    
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v. City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal basis for
the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a cause of
action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff does not meet his
or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a demurrer or motion to
strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint deficient, plaintiff
respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major Clients Agency v Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v. Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)
 
Here, Plaintiff has failed to meet this burden as Plaintiff failed
to oppose the demurrer and motion to strike, and therefore does not address
whether leave should be granted if either the demurrer is sustained or the
motion to strike is granted.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court sustains Defendants’ Demurrer to the
First, Second, and Third Causes of Action without leave to amend.
 
The Court denies Defendants’ motion to strike Plaintiff’s claims for
damages, including the claim for punitive damages, concerning the First, Second
and Third Causes of Action as moot, and denies as procedurally defective the
request to strike Plaintiff’s claims for damages alleged in connection with the
fourth cause of action.
 
Further, the Court orders Defendants to file and serve an Answer to
the Complaint on or before June 26, 2024. 

 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith. 

 
 
DATED:  June 5, 2024                                                           ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


