 Case Number:  23SMCV06055    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


June 5, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV06055




MOTION


Demurrer to Complaint




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants Michael D. Pariser and Michael Pariser
  Psychotherapy, PC




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Jane Doe



 
MOTION
 
On December 28, 2023, Plaintiff Jane Doe (“Plaintiff”) brought suit
against Defendants Michael D. Pariser and Michael Pariser Psychotherapy, PC
(“Defendants”) alleging six causes of action for (1) negligence; (2) violation
of Civil Code section 43.93; (3) sexual harassment; (4) infliction of emotional
distress; (5) sexual battery; and (6) fraud. 
Plaintiff alleges Defendants used Plaintiff’s psychotherapy sessions to psychologically
groom and ultimately initiate a sexual relationship with Plaintiff.  
 
Defendants now demur to all six causes of action on the grounds that
they fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action under Code
of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subd. (e) and are barred by the statute of
limitations under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.5.  Plaintiff opposes the demurrer and Defendants
reply.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if on consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
Defendants contend that all causes of action arise from Plaintiff’s
allegations that Defendants’ treatment of Plaintiff constituted professional
negligence by a health care provider, and are therefore time barred by virtue
of the one-year statute of limitations in the Medical Injury Compensation
Reform Act (“MICRA”), Code of Civil Procedure section 340.5, because Plaintiff
began treatment with Defendants in 2014, and Defendants terminated Plaintiff’s treatment
on or about March 11, 2019, when Dr. Pariser began a sexual relationship with
Plaintiff that continued until February of 2020.  (Complaint ¶¶ 6, 14-15.)  Yet Plaintiff did not file suit until
December 28, 2023.
 
Section 340.5 provides:
 
In an action for injury or death against a health
care provider based upon such person’s alleged professional negligence, the
time for the commencement of action shall be three years after the date of
injury or one year after the plaintiff discovers, or through the use of
reasonable diligence should have discovered, the injury, whichever occurs
first. In no event shall the time for commencement of legal action exceed three
years unless tolled for any of the following: (1) upon proof of fraud, (2)
intentional concealment, or (3) the presence of a foreign body, which has no
therapeutic or diagnostic purpose or effect, in the person of the injured
person.
 
            “[W]hen a plaintiff asserts a claim
against a health care provider on a legal theory other than professional
negligence, courts must determine whether the claim is nonetheless based on the
health care provider's professional negligence, which would require application
of MICRA.”  (Larson v. UHS of Rancho
Springs, Inc. (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 336, 347.)  “To make that determination, courts must
examine not only the legal theory alleged, but also the nature of the health
care provider's alleged conduct and the legislative history of the MICRA
provision at issue.”  (Ibid.)  “When, as here, the question presented
concerns which limitations period applies, courts also must focus on the nature
or gravamen of the claim, not the label or form of action the plaintiff
selects.”  (Ibid.)  
 
            In Unruh-Haxton v. Regents of the
University of California (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 343, 355-356, the appellate
court held that the gravamen of plaintiff’s fraud, conversion, and emotional
distress claims were based on allegations that plaintiff’s fertility doctors
stole patient eggs and embryos and sold them for financial gain related to wrongful
intentional misconduct, and were therefore not governed by MICRA’s statute of
limitations.  “It would be inconsistent
with the letter and spirit of the statutory scheme to hold allegations of
intentional fraud, emotional distress, and stealing are really just another
form of professional negligence.”  (Id.
at p. 356.)
 
            In Cobbs v. Grant (1972) 8
Cal.3d 229, the Supreme Court differentiated between battery, where a doctor
obtains a patient’s consent to perform one type of treatment but subsequently
performs a substantially different treatment without consent, to which MICRA’s
limitations do not apply, and “technical” battery, where a doctor fails to sufficiently
disclose the risks inherent in the operation, which fundamentally centers
around the doctor’s professional negligence, and to which MICRA’s limitations
do apply.  (Id. at p. 239.)  
 
Similarly, in Perry v. Shaw (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 658, the
appellate court held that MICRA’s limitations did not apply where the alleged
battery was based on a deliberate decision to ignore the scope of the
plaintiff’s consent, not a negligent failure to disclose a potential
complication.  (Id. at pp. 664,
668, fn. 4.)
 
Here, the gravamen of Plaintiff’s claim is not that Defendants provided
Plaintiff negligent psychotherapy care, but rather that Dr. Pariser intentionally
abused his position of power over her as her psychotherapist, took advantage of
her vulnerability due to her young age and the fact she was his mental health
patient, and used his superior knowledge of psychology to groom and manipulate Plaintiff
into having a sexual relationship with him. 
Put differently, the gravamen of Plaintiff’s claim isn’t that Dr.
Pariser negligently allowed “transference” to occur, but rather that he intentionally
exploited it to have a sexual relationship with Plaintiff.  As such, MICRA does not apply to Plaintiff’s
second, third, fourth, fifth, or sixth causes of action.
 
With respect to Plaintiff’s first cause of action for medical
negligence, however, Plaintiff alleges that by January 28, 2021, she “became
aware through further therapy of how egregious Dr. Pariser’s actions were” and
filed an administrative complaint with the California Board of Psychology.  (Complaint, ¶ 16.)  Because Plaintiff had discovered her injury
by January 28, 2021, her first cause of action for professional negligence
became time barred as of January 28, 2022.
 
            Finally, Defendants argue that
Plaintiff’s second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action should
still be time barred, because Code of Civil Procedure, section 340.16, upon
which Plaintiff relies to toll the statute of limitations, applies only to
“sexual assault” which Defendants contend Plaintiff has not alleged.  Whether Defendants’ conduct rises to the
level of “sexual assault” under Section 340.16 is a factual issue to be
determined at later stages of the litigation.
 
2.    
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v. City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal basis for
the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a cause of
action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff does not meet his
or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a demurrer or motion to
strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint deficient, plaintiff
respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major Clients Agency v Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v. Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)
 
Here, Plaintiff requests an opportunity to amend to add additional
facts and law “with regard to the issue of her lack of ability to legally
consent to the sexual conduct at issue.” 
(Opp. at p. 5.)  But additional
facts regarding Plaintiff’s capacity to consent will not cure the statute of
limitations problem barring Plaintiff’s first cause of action for professional
negligence.  Therefore, the Court denies
Plaintiff’s request for leave to amend.    
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court sustains Defendant’s Demurrer to the
First Cause of Action without leave to amend, but overrules Defendant’s
Demurrer to all other causes of action.   
 
Further, the Court orders Defendants to file and serve an Answer to
the Complaint or before June 26, 2024.  
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith. 

 
DATED:  June 5, 2024                                                           ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court