Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: ? (not specified)
Plaintiff's Name: Igor Fradkin
Defendant's Name: Corina Weaver, Carl Warren & Company, Pomona City, Los Angeles County, State of California
People-Names: Igor Fradkin, Corina Weaver, Kevin J. Engelien
Company-Names: Carl Warren & Company
Places: Glendale, CA, Los Angeles, CA, Pomona, CA, West Sacramento, CA
Dates: August 15, 2023, August 17, 2023, September 5, 2023, September 6, 2023, September 7, 2023, September 12, 2023, September 14, 2023, September 15, 2023, September 19, 2023, September 25, 2023, December 8, 2023, February 5, 2024, May 16, 2023
Events: Filing of petition, service of documents, filing of opposition, filing of case management statement, filing of notice of remote appearance
Money: $10,000
Intentions: To determine whether the petition should be granted or denied
Facts: Petitioner filed a petition on August 17, 2023, and served documents on multiple defendants; County and State have filed oppositions; Petitioner has not provided notice of hearing to all parties
Disputes: Whether the petition should be granted or denied
Acts: Filing of petition, service of documents, filing of oppositions
Agreements: None mentioned
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure sections 945.4, 910
Case Citations: None mentioned
Statutes: California Code of Civil Procedure sections 945.4, 910
Roles:
* Igor Fradkin: Petitioner
* Corina Weaver: Defendant
* Carl Warren & Company: Defendant
* Pomona City: Defendant
* Los Angeles County: Defendant
* State of California: Defendant
* Kevin J. Engelien: Counsel for County
Significant Statements:
* "[I]t was my, TRVEINO's, understanding that claim forms must be submitted within six months of the injury."
* "Except as provided in Sections 946.4 and 946.6, no suit for money or damages may be brought against a public entity on a cause of action for which a claim is required to be presented until a written claim therefor has been presented to the public entity and has been acted upon by the board, or has been deemed to have been rejected by the board."
* "A claim shall be presented by the claimant or by a person acting on his or her behalf and shall show all of the following: ... (a) The name and post office address of the claimant. (b) The post office address to which the person presenting the claim desires notices to be sent. (c) The date, place and other circumstances of the occurrence or transaction which gave rise to the claim asserted."
```

And here is the English-text summary of the judge's tentative ruling:

The court has considered the petition filed by Igor Fradkin and the responses of the defendants, including the County of Los Angeles, the City of Pomona, and the State of California. The court notes that the petition was filed on August 17, 2023, and that the defendants have not been provided with notice of the upcoming hearing date. The court is concerned that the petition may be premature, as it appears that the claim has not been properly presented to the relevant public entities as required by California law. The court is also concerned that the petition does not comply with the requirements of California Code of Civil Procedure section 910, which sets forth the information that must be included in a claim. The court is tentatively ruling that the petition should be denied unless the petitioner can demonstrate that the claim was properly presented to the public entities and that the petition complies with the requirements of California law.