  Case Number:  23PSCP00365    Hearing Date:   February 5, 2024    Dept:  K Petitioner Ruby Trevino’s Petition for
Order from Relief from Claim Statute is DENIED.
Background[1]  
Petitioner Ruby Trevino (“Petitioner”) alleges that on or
about May 20, 2022, she slipped and fell on liquid at the L.A. County Fair in
Pomona.
This is a petition for relief from the provisions of
Government Code § 945.4, filed August 17, 2023.
A Case Management Conference is set for February 5, 2024.
Legal Standard
“A claim relating to a cause of action for death or for injury
to person . . . shall be presented . . . not later than six months after the
accrual of the cause of action.” (Gov. Code § 911.2, subd. (a).)
“When a claim that is required by Section 911.2 to be
presented not later than six months after the accrual of the cause of action is
not presented within that time, a written application may be made to the public
entity for leave to present that claim.” (Gov. Code § 911.4, subd. (a).) “The application
shall be presented to the public entity . . . within a reasonable time not to
exceed one year after the accrual of the cause of action and shall state the
reason for the delay in presenting the claim. The proposed claim shall be
attached to the application.” (Gov. Code § 911.4, subd. (b).)
“If an application for leave to present a claim is denied or
deemed to be denied pursuant to Section 911.6, a petition may be made to the
court for an order relieving the petitioner from Section 945.4. . .” (Gov. Code
§ 946.6, subd. (a).) [2]
“The petition shall show each of the following: (1) That application was made
to the board under Section 911.4 and was denied or deemed denied. (2) The
reason for failure to present the claim within the time limit specified in
Section 911.2. (3) The information required by Section 910.” (Gov. Code §
946.6, subd. (b).) [3]
“The court shall relieve the petitioner from the
requirements of Section 945.4 if the court finds that the application to the
board under Section 911.4 was made within a reasonable time not to exceed that
specified in subdivision (b) of Section 911.4 and was denied or deemed denied
pursuant to Section 911.6 and that one or more of the following is
applicable:
(1)              
The failure to present the claim was through mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect unless the public entity
establishes that it would be prejudiced in the defense of the claim if the
court relieves the petitioner from the requirements of Section 945.4.
(2)              
The person who sustained the alleged injury, damage, or loss
was a minor during all of the time specified in Section 911.2 for the
presentation of the claim.
(3)              
The person who sustained the alleged injury, damage, or loss
was a minor during any of the time specified in Section 911.2 for the
presentation of the claim, provided the application is presented within six
months of the person turning 18 years of age or a year after the claim accrues,
whichever occurs first.
(4)              
The person who sustained the alleged injury, damage, or loss
was physically or mentally incapacitated during all of the time specified in
Section 911.2 for the presentation of the claim and by reason of that
disability failed to present a claim during that time.
(5)              
The person who sustained the alleged injury, damage, or loss
was physically or mentally incapacitated during any of the time specified in
Section 911.2 for the presentation of the claim and by reason of that
disability failed to present a claim during that time, provided the application
is presented within six months of the person no longer being physically or
mentally incapacitated, or a year after the claim accrues, whichever occurs
first.
(6)              
The person who sustained the alleged injury, damage, or loss
died before the expiration of the time specified in Section 911.2 for the
presentation of the claim.” 
 
(Gov. Code § 946.6, subd. (c) [emphasis added].)
“A copy of the petition and a written notice of the time and place
of hearing shall be served before the hearing as prescribed by subdivision
(b) of Section 1005 of the Code of Civil Procedure on (1) the clerk or
secretary or board of the local public entity, if the respondent is a local
public entity, or (2) the Attorney General, if the respondent is the state. . .
Service on the Attorney General may be accomplished at any of the Attorney
General's offices in Los Angeles, Sacramento, San Diego, or San Francisco. .
.” (Gov. Code § 946.6, subd. (d).)
Discussion
Petitioner
moves the court for an order relieving her from the requirements of Government
Code § 945.4.
At the outset, the
court notes that Petitioner has failed to file a proof of service reflecting
that City, County and State were provided notice of the February 5, 2024
hearing date (see footnote #1). The following analysis, then, is contingent
upon Petitioner’s counsel filing said proof of service with the court at or
before the time of the hearing:
In this case, the subject
incident occurred on May 20, 2022. (Petitioner’s Decl., ¶ 5.) Petitioner
retained counsel on January 9, 2023. (Fradkin Decl., ¶ 2). On May 18, 2023,
Petitioner applied to City, County and State for leave to file a late tort
claim for damages. (Id., ¶ 3, Exh. 1.) Petitioner’s application was
denied by County on June 5, 2023. (Id., ¶ 5, Exh. 2) and was deemed
denied by City and State on July 2, 2023 (Id., ¶ 7.) The instant
application was filed on August 17, 2023.
In a petition for relief from
claims filing requirements, “a petitioner has the burden of providing by a
preponderance of evidence the necessary elements for relief.” (Rodriguez v.
County of Los Angeles (1985) 171 Cal.App.3d 171, 175). “The mere recital
of mistake, inadvertence, surprise or excusable neglect is not sufficient to
warrant relief. Relief on grounds of mistake, inadvertence, surprise or
excusable neglect is available only on a showing that the claimant's failure to
timely present a claim was reasonable when tested by the objective ‘reasonably
prudent person’ standard. The definition of excusable neglect is defined as
‘neglect that might have been the act or omission of a reasonably prudent
person under the same or similar circumstances.’” (Department of Water &
Power v. Superior Court (2000) 82 Cal.App.4th 1288, 1293.) “There must be
more than the mere failure to discover a fact; the party seeking relief must
establish the failure to discover the fact in the exercise of reasonable
diligence. The party seeking relief based on a claim of mistake must establish
he was diligent in investigating and pursuing the claim and must establish the
necessary elements justifying relief by the preponderance of the evidence.” (Id.)
The petition asserts that “Plaintiff knew that she had to
file government claims within 6 month of her injury however [Petitioner]
mistakenly improperly calendared the six month expiration date.” (Petition,
4:5-7). The petition further asserts that “it was discovered that [Petitioner]
had miscalendared the date” “[u]pon [Petitioner retaining counsel. . . on
January 9, 2023.” (Id., 4:9-10).
Petitioner attests only that she lost her job in September
2022 (Petitioner’s Decl., ¶ 2), that she has been homeless since then and
living on the streets, where she “moved around a lot” having been “subjected to
multiple instances of attempted kidnapping by strangers forcing [her] into
sexual enslavement” (Id., ¶ 3) and that she “accidentally miscalendared
the proper deadline for the government claim” “[d]ue to the situation [she] was
dealing with” (Id., ¶ 4). Petitioner’s counsel, Igor Fradkin
(“Fradkin”), attests that it was discovered that [Petitioner] ha[d] mis
calendared the [deadline]” “[u]pon Plaintiff retaining counsel.” (Fradkin
Decl., ¶ 4).
The court determines that Petitioner has not shown that her
failure to present the claim was through mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. A reasonably prudent person who was admittedly aware of the
six-month claims presentation requirement[4] would not
wait eight months to retain an attorney. A reasonably prudent person would have
attempted to retain an attorney, attempted some investigation into the claim,
or taken some steps in pursuit of the claim prior to the expiration of the
six-month deadline, none of which Petitioner apparently did.
Incidentally, Petitioner’s reference to Emergency Rule 9 is
not applicable, inasmuch as that rule tolled the statutes of limitations and
repose from April 6, 2020 until October 1, 2020 for civil cases of action that
exceeded 180 days and tolled the statutes of limitations and repose from April
6, 2020 until August 3, 2020 for civil causes of action that were 180 days or
less. The alleged incident occurred on May 20, 2022, well after this period.
"Once it has been shown that an application for leave to file
a late claim was made within a reasonable time and that the failure to present
a timely claim was through mistake, inadvertence, surprise or excusable
neglect, the burden shifts to the public entity to establish by a preponderance
of the evidence that it would be prejudiced if the court relieves the
petitioner from the six-month claim presentation requirements.” (Renteria v.
Juvenile Justice, Department of Corrections & Rehabilitation (2006) 135
Cal.App.4th 903, 910.) Even if Petitioner had met her moving burden
(which she has not), the court determines that County has established that it
would be prejudiced in the defense of the claim if the court relieved Petitioner
from the requirements of Section 945.4. The subject incident occurred over one
and a half years ago; as such, County has little ability to investigate any
potential evidence and to interrogate independent witnesses.
The petition is denied.


