  Case Number:  22STCV29577    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



THOMAS
  D. PEREZ 
                           
         vs.
 
A.L.
  WILSON CHEMICAL COMPANY 
                                          


 Case No.: 
  22STCV29577 
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  December 6, 2023



 
            Dow’s motion to correct the minute
order is GRANTED. 
 
On 9/12/2022, Plaintiff Thomas D. Perez and Delia Lopez De Perez
initiated tis suit against 31 Defendants, alleging: (1) negligence; (2) strict
liability—failure to warn; (3) strict liability—design defect; (4) fraudulent
concealment; (5) breach of implied warranties; and (6) loss of consortium. 
 
Now, Defendant Dow Chemical Company (Dow) moves for an Amended
Order to correct the Court’s 8/18/2023 Minute Order.
 
The motion is unopposed. 
 
Discussion

 
            Dow seeks the following corrections
in the Court’s 8/18/2023 Minute Order:
 
1. On page 3, lines 5-6 of the Minute Order, which presently reads
“they cannot find it,” should be changed to “Dow has not located documents
which exists responsive to this request.”
 
2. On page 3, lines 6-7 of the Minute Order, which presently reads
“Dow Chemical represents it was produced in the Modesto Litigation under a
protective order,” should be changed to “Dow Chemical represents it does not
know one way or the other if this document exists and if this document is
subject to the Modesto Protective Order.”
 
            Dow argues that the clarification is
necessary because “Dow steadfastly has maintained that it is not aware of the
existence of the document Plaintiffs seek, and as a result, seeks clarification
of and correction to the August 18, 2023 Minute Order because there is a
conflict between what is stated in the Minute Order and (1) what was recorded
in the transcripts of the hearing on Dow’s Motion, and (2) the records on file
with the Court.” (1: 4-7.) 
 
            Given the lack of opposition to the
request, and given that the proposed clarifications more faithfully reflect
what was said according to the transcript, the Court finds that the proposed
corrections should be made. 
 
It is so
ordered. 
 
Dated: 
December    , 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
  
Hon. Jon R. Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please
contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 
 