 Case Number:  23STCP00500    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



WALTER PEARCE 
        
  vs.
 
GARDENA REITREMENT CENTER, INC. dba GARDENA
  RETIREMENT CENTER 
  


 Case
  No.:  23STCP00500   
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 6, 2023




 
            Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further discovery is MOOT, pending the IDC.
 
On 2/21/2023,
Walter Pearce (Plaintiff) filed suit against Gardena Retirement Center, Inc.
dba Gardena Retirement Center (Defendant), alleging: (1) dependent adult
abuse/neglect; and (2) negligence. 
 
            Now,
Plaintiff moves to compel further responses to his RFPs. 
 
            As
a preliminary matter, the Court requires that the parties participate in an
informal discovery conference (IDC) before motions to compel further are heard
on the merits. Indeed, on 11/14/2023, the Court issued a Minute Order regarding
the holding of an IDC in January and February 2024, which the parties are now
in process of scheduling.
 
            Second,
Defendant indicated that it has since served supplemental responses. As such, there
has not been full briefing on the sufficiency of these supplemental responses,
and there is strong reason to believe this motion can be resolved informally. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, this motion is moot, pending the IDC. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  December   
, 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 