 Case Number:  23STCV09051    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



ALMOST NOTHING, INC.,  
  
         vs.
 
PACIFIC PRINTEX CORP., et al.


 Case No.: 
  23STCV09051
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  June 3, 2024



 
Moving Defendants
Pacific
Printex Corp.’s, Morad Ben Neman’s, Los Angeles ML, LLC’s, Shawn Simon Neman’s,
and Brian Neman’s demurrer to Plaintiff Almost Nothing, Inc.’s first amended complaint
is sustained with 20 days leave to amend as to the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 5th, 6th,
7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th, 12th, and 13th causes of action, and overruled as to
the 4th cause of action.
 
Moving Defendants Pacific Printex Corp. (“PPC”), Morad Ben Neman
(“Morad”), Los Angeles ML, LLC’s (“LAML”), Shawn Simon Neman (“Shawn”), and
Brian Neman (“Brian”) (collectively, “Moving Defendants”) demur to Plaintiff
Almost Nothing, Inc.’s first amended complaint (“FAC”).  (Notice
of Demurrer, pgs. 1-2.)
 
Background
Plaintiff filed its initial Complaint against Moving Defendants
and Non-Moving Defendant SCKS (collectively, “Defendants”) on January 3, 2023.  Plaintiff filed its operative FAC against
Defendants on June 27, 2023, alleging thirteen causes of action: (1) breach of
joint venture; (2) breach of warranty of good faith and fair dealing; (3) breach
of fiduciary duty; (4) declaratory relief; (5) constructive trust; (6) conspiracy
to defraud; (7) negligence; (8) tortious interference with prospective economic
advantage; (9) tortious interference with contract; (10) recission; (11)
reformation; (12) attorney fees under tort of another doctrine; and (13) UCL- Violation
of Business and Professional Code 17200.
Plaintiff’s FAC arises from it, along with Printex, jointly holding
a lease with SCKS which commenced as of July 17, 2000 (“2000 Lease”).  (FAC ¶10.). Plaintiff alleges the 2000 Lease
was with SCKS on the one hand and Plaintiff and Printex jointly and severally
on the other hand, for 1620 S. Los Angeles, CA 90015 (“Premises”).  (FAC ¶10.) 
Plaintiff alleges although it was a lease between SCKS and Printex/Plaintiff,
it was actually a Sublease of that Master lease between the State of California
Department of Transportation and Freeway Airspace Associates (“Freeway”), dated
October 11, 1977 (“Master Lease”).  (FAC
¶10.)  Plaintiff alleges SCKS later
became the successor in interests to the said Master Lease with the State of
California, based on assignment by Freeway to SCKS on November 30, 1977.  (FAC ¶10.) 

On January 3, 2024, Moving Defendants filed the instant
demurrer.  On May 21, 2024, Plaintiff
filed its opposition.  On May 24, 2024,
Moving Defendants filed their reply.
 
          Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring
party shall meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the
purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve
the objections to be raised in the demurrer. 
(C.C.P. §430.41(a), emphasis added.) 
A declaration must be filed with a demurrer regarding the results of the
meet and confer process.  (C.C.P.
§430.41(a)(3).)
Moving Defendants’ counsel declares his office made a good faith attempt
to meet and confer via phone with Plaintiff’s counsel, wherein he discussed the
grounds for the instant demurrer, and the parties were unable to agree.  (Decl. of Haghnazadeh ¶3.)  Moving Defendants’ counsel’s declaration is
sufficient under C.C.P. §430.41(a). 
Accordingly, the Court will consider the instant demurrer.
 
Summary of Demurrer
Moving Defendants demur to the FAC on the basis that
each of the thirteen causes of action fails to allege facts sufficient to
allege a cause of action, and each cause of action is uncertain.  (Demurrer, pgs. 3-5; C.C.P. §§430.10(e), (f).)
 
Legal Standard
“[A] demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc.
(2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable.  (See Donabedian v.
Mercury Insurance Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a
demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to
judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their
contents].)  For purposes of ruling on a
demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the
reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law.  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital District
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
          
          Failure to State
a Claim
Breach of Joint Venture (1st COA)
California does not recognize a cause of action for breach of
joint venture.
“An implied-in-fact contract is based on the conduct of the
parties. Like an express contract, an implied-in-fact contract requires an
ascertained agreement of the parties.”  (Unilab
Corp. v. Angeles-IPA (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 622, 636, internal citation
omitted.)
“To prevail on a cause of action for breach of contract, the
plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance of the
contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4)
resulting damage to the plaintiff.” (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)
“An oral contract may be pleaded generally as
to its effect, because it is rarely possible to allege the exact words.
[Citation.] A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a
complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified
under modern discovery procedures. [Citations.]” (Khoury v. Maly’s of
California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  That plaintiff could not allege with
specificity the exact terms of the contract does not preclude statement of a
cause of action. (Id.)
Plaintiff alleges it and its principal Issac Kermani (“Kermani”),
along with Printex and its principal Ben, entered into the Lease with SCKS as
joint venturers whereby they would collect rent from subleases as well as each
occupy a warehouse space/unit at the Premises for their own individual use
while the Lease was in effect.  (FAC ¶20.)  Plaintiff alleges the Lease is in fact
guaranteed by Plaintiff, Ben, the Kermani Family Trust, and Neman Family Trust.  (FAC ¶20.) 

Plaintiff alleges it on the one hand, and Ben/Printex on the other
hand, agreed and in the past 20 plus years until 2022, when Ben took it over,
did jointly share in the management, decisions, profit and losses of their
rental sublease business conducted at the Premises.  (FAC ¶21.) 
Plaintiff alleges that consistent with said joint venture, Plaintiff and
Printex/Ben each had an ownership interest in their rental business, each had
joint control over the rental business albeit decided to delegate control of
aspects of it to each other and agreed to share the losses and profits of their
rental business equally.  (FAC ¶21.)  Plaintiff alleges however, the actual
management, collection of rent, payment of bills and dividing up of the profits
was or the majority of the relationship, handled by Plaintiff until Ben
disrupted it.  (FAC ¶21.)  
Plaintiff alleges on information and belief that Printex through
Ben, perpetrated a fraud on Plaintiff which resulted in Plaintiff agreeing to
waive the Option to extend clause of the Lease, all so that Ben would then go
and sign a new lease with SCKS commencing upon expiration of the Lease in 2025.  (FAC ¶22.) 
Plaintiff alleges moreover, Ben through various entities and directly,
began taking over control of the Property without the consent of Plaintiff.  (FAC ¶22.) 
Plaintiff alleges Ben engaged in the specific actions set forth in Paragraph
18. (FAC ¶22.)  Plaintiff alleges all of
these actions by Ben and Printex constituted a breach of joint venture
opportunity.  (FAC ¶22.)  Plaintiff alleges as a result of this breach
of agreement, Plaintiff has suffered subject to proof at trial plus interest,
costs, and attorneys’ fees to the extent allowed by law.  (FAC ¶23.) 

Plaintiff’s cause of action fails to allege whether the agreement
to enter into a joint venture was agreed to orally or in writing.  Plaintiff fails to allege the essential terms
of the joint venture agreement.  While Plaintiff
did allege an agreement with Printex to sublease portions of the Premises to
their own tenants, collect rent, and split the proceeds and losses in half, the
FAC remains vague as to the essential terms of the joint venture and rights and
duties thereof.  (FAC ¶¶15, 18, 21.)  Plaintiff alleges that Printex breached their
joint venture agreement by fraudulently inducing Plaintiff to remove the option
to extend the Lease so that Printex could sign the October 2025 Lease with
SCKS.  (FAC at ¶¶14, 15, 22). Fraud,
however, is not a breach, and must be alleged as a standalone cause of action with
the requisite elements and specificity. 
(See Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638; Tarmann
v. State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
Accordingly, Moving Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 1st cause
of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Breach of Warranty of Good Faith and Fair Dealing (2nd COA)
“The implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing rests upon
the existence of some specific contractual obligation. ‘The covenant of good
faith is read into contracts in order to protect the express covenants or
promises of the contract, not to protect some general public policy interest
not directly tied to the contract’s purpose.’ . . . ‘In essence, the covenant
is implied as a supplement to the express contractual covenants, to prevent a
contracting party from engaging in conduct which (while not technically
transgressing the express covenants) frustrates the other party’s rights to the
benefits of the contract.’”  (Racine
& Laramie, Ltd. v. Department of Parks & Recreation (1992) 11
Cal.App.4th 1026, 1031-1032, internal citations omitted.)
“The prerequisite for any action for breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing is the existence of a contractual
relationship between the parties, since the covenant is an implied term in the
contract.”  (Smith v. City and County
of San Francisco (1990) 225 Cal.App.3d 38, 49.)  “‘The implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing is limited to assuring compliance with the express terms of the contract
and cannot be extended to create obligations not contemplated by the
contract.’” (Pasadena Live v. City of Pasadena (2004) 114 Cal.App.4th
1089, 1094.)
Plaintiff alleges it and Printex, through Ben, are parties to the
Lease, including supplemental addenda.  (FAC ¶28.) 
Plaintiff alleges as such they owed each other a duty not to breach the covenant
of good faith and fair dealing.  (FAC
¶28.)  Plaintiff alleges in addition,
they were in a joint venture in so far as exploitation of the Lease
opportunities with subleases to tenants wherein they would jointly share in the
management, profit and losses of their rental sublease business conducted at
the Premises.  (FAC ¶28.)  
Plaintiff alleges Ben and Printex engaged in various acts,
activities and conduct which constituted breaches of the warranty of good faith
and fair dealing inuring in Plaintiff’s behalf. 
(FAC ¶29.)  Plaintiff alleges these
breaches caused it harm.  (FAC ¶30.)  Plaintiff alleges Printex and Ben were aware
their conduct in breaching Plaintiff’s rights under the Lease and Joint Venture
would cause Plaintiff harm.  (FAC ¶31.)  Plaintiff alleges as a result of this breach
of contract, Plaintiff has suffered damages subject to proof at trial plus
interest, costs, and attorneys’ fees as allowed by law.  (FAC ¶32.)
Plaintiff fails to allege the express terms of the contract
Printex breached. Plaintiff’s cause of action is uncertain as to the contract
at issue—the Lease or the joint venture agreement.  In the event Plaintiff’s allegation pertains
to the joint venture agreement, this cause of action must fail because
Plaintiff failed to allege a cause of action for breach of the joint venture
agreement.  (Smith, 225 Cal.App.3d
at pg. 49.)
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s 2nd cause of
action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Breach of Fiduciary Duty (3rd COA)
“A fiduciary relationship is ‘any relation existing between
parties to a transaction wherein one of the parties is . . . duty bound to act
with the utmost good faith for the benefit of the other party. Such a relation
ordinarily arises where a confidence is reposed by one person in the integrity
of another, and in such a relation the party in whom the confidence is reposed,
if he voluntarily accepts or assumes to accept the confidence, can take no
advantage from his acts relating to the interest of the other party without the
latter’s knowledge or consent.’”  (Wolf
v. Superior Court (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 25, 29.)
“Every agent owes his principal the duty of undivided loyalty.
During the course of his agency, he may not undertake or participate in
activities adverse to the interests of his principal. In the absence of an
agreement to the contrary, an agent is free to engage in competition with his
principal after termination of his employment, but he may plan and develop his
competitive enterprise during the course of his agency only where the
particular activity engaged in is not against the best interests of his principal.”
 (Sequoia Vacuum Systems v. Stransky
(1964) 229 Cal.App.2d 281, 287.)
“The law of confidential relationships governs duties of trust
that one is not obligated to assume. Once a person commits himself to a
confidential relationship, the law requires him to fulfill the duties attendant
to the relationship. Confidential relations protect the trust that is implicit
in relationships between employers and employees, between masters and servants,
and between principals and agents, rather than the information that may pass
between these parties.”  (Balboa
Insurance Co. v. Trans Global Equities (1990) 218 Cal.App.3d 1327, 1350-1351,
internal citation omitted.)
Plaintiff alleges it and Printex, through Ben, were in a fiduciary
relationship under the circumstances outlined in this Complaint as parties
running a joint venture.  (Complaint
¶34.)  Plaintiff alleges both owed
fiduciary duties and are duty bound to act with the utmost good faith for the
benefit of the other party. (Complaint ¶34.) 
Plaintiff alleges for example, as to the sublease business, both Plaintiff
and Printex/Ben operated with a duty of strict confidence and in the integrity
of each other and each accepted those confidences, and as such, each party is
duty bound not to take no advantage from his acts relating to the interest of
the other party without the latter’s knowledge or consent.  (Complaint ¶34.)  
Plaintiff alleges it and Printex/Ben were in a joint venture in that
they would jointly share in the management, profit and losses of their rental
sublease business conducted at the Premises and would each own a warehouse
space/unit at the Premises while the Lease was in effect.  (Complaint ¶35.)  Plaintiff alleges consistent with their joint
venture, Plaintiff and Printex/Ben each had an ownership interest in their
rental business, each had joint control over the rental business albeit decided
to delegate control of aspects of it to each other and agreed to share the
losses and profits of their rental business equally.  (Complaint ¶35.)  
Plaintiff alleges on information and belief that Printex and Ben,
perpetrated a fraud on Plaintiff which resulted in Plaintiff agreeing to waive
the Option to extend clause of the Lease, all so that Ben would then go and
sign a new lease with SCKS commencing upon expiration of the Lease.  (Complaint ¶36.)  Plaintiff alleges Ben through various
entities and directly, began taking over control of the Property without the
consent of Plaintiff.  (Complaint
¶36.)  
Plaintiff fails to allege Printex has a legal relationship of
confidence with Plaintiff. Plaintiff fails allege Printex does not deal on
equal terms or is in a superior position to exert unique influence over
Plaintiff.
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s 3rd cause of
action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Declaratory Relief (4th COA)
Any person claiming rights with respect to property, a contract,
or a written instrument (other than a will or trust) may bring an action for a
declaration of the party’s rights or duties with respect to another. The action
may be brought before any breach occurs of the obligation regarding which the
declaration of rights is sought.  (C.C.P.
§1060; Market Lofts Community Association v. 9th Street Market Lofts, LLC
(2014) 222 Cal.App.4th 924, 931.)  However,
such declaratory relief requires the existence of an actual, present
controversy between the parties over a proper subject.  (City of Cotati v. Cashman (2002) 29
Cal.4th 69, 79; Jenkins v. JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 216
Cal.App.4th 497, 513-514.)
Plaintiff alleges an actual controversy has arisen and now exists
between Plaintiff and the Defendants.  (FAC ¶40.) 
Plaintiff alleges all Defendants have wronged Plaintiff in, amongst
other things, entering into a new lease commencing October 2025 to Plaintiff’s
detriment.  (FAC ¶40.)  Plaintiff alleges a judicial determination of
these issues and of the respective duties of Plaintiff and Defendants are
necessary and appropriate at this time under the circumstances because
Plaintiff is being harmed by Defendants’ conduct and are presently continuing
with the actions set forth above.  (FAC
¶41.)
Plaintiff alleges it seeks an immediate judicial determination as
to the following: (a) Whether the new lease entered into by SCKS and
Ben/Brian/Shawn and SCKS, behind Plaintiff’s back is a joint venture asset and
thus must be reformed to include Plaintiff; (b) whether Ben/Printex should turn
over 50% of the profits from the rental business; (c) whether Plaintiff should
continue paying 50% of the Lease rent. 
(FAC ¶42.)
Plaintiff sufficiently alleges a cause of action for declaratory
relief.  Plaintiff sufficiently alleges the
existence of an actual, present controversy between the parties over a proper
subject.  (City of Cotati, 29
Cal.4th at pg. 79.)
Accordingly, Moving Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s 4th cause
of action is overruled.
 
Constructive Trust (5th COA)
Constructive trust is not a cognizable cause of action in
California.
“A constructive trust is an involuntary equitable trust created by
operation of law as a remedy to compel the transfer of property from the person
wrongfully holding it to the rightful owner. [Citations.] The essence of the
theory of constructive trust is to prevent unjust enrichment and to prevent a
person from taking advantage of his or her own wrongdoing. [Citations.]”  (Communist Party v. 522 Valencia, Inc.
(1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 980, 990.)
The imposition of “[a] constructive trust is an equitable remedy
to compel the transfer of property by one who is not justly entitled to it to
one who is. [Citation.]”  (Habitat
Trust for Wildlife, Inc. v. City of Rancho Cucamonga (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th
1306, 1332.)  It is not “a substantive
claim for relief.” (PCO, Inc. v. Christensen, Miller, Fink, Jacobs, Glaser,
Weil & Shapiro, LLP (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 384, 398; see Embarcadero
Mun. Improvement Dist. v. County of Santa Barbara (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 781,
793 [“[a] constructive trust is not a substantive device but merely a
remedy”].)  The issue of whether to
impose a constructive trust is an equitable issue for the court.  (See Fowler v. Fowler (1964) 227
Cal.App.2d 741, 747 [“it is for the trial court to decide whether” the
plaintiff has proven entitlement to a constructive trust].)
Plaintiff alleges it was in a joint venture with Printex and Ben
for which fiduciary duties applied and which Defendants breached.  (FAC ¶45.) 
Plaintiff alleges based on the wrongful acts and conduct outlined above
that Ben and Printex engaged in towards Plaintiff, Plaintiff seeks a ruling
that all the monies collected by Ben/Printex from the sublease and other
operations at the premises to date be deemed held under a constructive trust
with Plaintiff.  (FAC ¶45.)
Plaintiff fails to allege a cognizable cause of action.
Accordingly, Moving Defendants’ demurrer to the 5th cause of
action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
          Conspiracy to
Defraud (6th COA)
“Conspiracy is not a separate tort, but a form of vicarious
liability by which one defendant can be held liable for the acts of another. .
. . A conspiracy requires evidence ‘that each member of the conspiracy acted in
concert and came to a mutual understanding to accomplish a common and unlawful
plan, and that one or more of them committed an overt act to further it.’ Thus,
conspiracy provides a remedial measure for affixing liability to all who have
‘agreed to a common design to commit a wrong’ when damage to the plaintiff
results. The defendant in a conspiracy claim must be capable of committing the
target tort.”  (IIG Wireless, Inc. v.
Yi (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 630, 652, internal citations omitted.)
“The elements of fraud that will give rise to a tort action for
deceit are: ‘(a) misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or
nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to
defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting
damage.’”  (Engalla v. Permanente
Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 974, internal quotation marks
omitted.)
“Fraud must be pled specifically; general and conclusory
allegations do not suffice.”  (Small
v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167.)
Plaintiff alleges the conspiracy, which was done orally, in
writing and/or implied by the conduct of the parties, manifested itself in that
all of these defendants entered into an agreement to enter into a new lease
with SCKS commencing October 1, 2025, which they did do.  (FAC ¶47.) 
Plaintiff alleges that lease is with LAML, Ben’s “straw man” company
where his family members Shawn and Brian are principals and signatories to this
new lease.  (FAC ¶47.)  Plaintiff alleges this is made clear by the
fact that Ben guaranteed said lease.  (FAC
¶47.)  Plaintiff alleges on information
and belief that Printex through Ben, perpetrated a fraud on Plaintiff which
resulted in it agreeing to waive the “Option to extend” clause of the lease,
all so that Ben would then go and sign this new lease with SCKS commencing upon
expiration of the Lease.  (FAC ¶47.)  Plaintiff alleges at the time of entering
into the agreements intended to defraud Plaintiff by entering into the new
lease with SCKS commencing 2025, these defendants were aware that they were
defrauding Plaintiff and intended that such fraud be committed and perpetrated
on Plaintiff.  (FAC ¶48.)  
Plaintiff alleges it discovered on or about 2023/2023 why Ben had
fraudulently induced it to sign the 2019 Second Amendment removing the option
to extend – Ben did so in order to then turn around and enter into a new lease
with SCKS commencing October 1, 2025, using LAML as the “straw man” company run
by Ben and where Ben’s family members Shawn and Brian are principals.  (FAC ¶49.) 
Plaintiff alleges this is made clear by the fact that Ben guaranteed
said lease.  (FAC ¶49.)  Plaintiff alleges if this lease is allowed to
stand then Ben will be in a position to evict Plaintiff from the Premises,
causing Plaintiff irreparable damages and losses.  (FAC ¶49.) 
Plaintiff alleges it was harmed by the conduct of Printex, Ben, Shawn,
LAML and Brian as alleged herein, and these Defendants are responsible for the
harm, because they were all part of a conspiracy with Ben and each other to
defraud Plaintiff.  (FAC ¶50.)
  Plaintiff fails to allege
facts that amount to wrongdoing or a conspiracy by Printex. Plaintiff’s FAC
alleges that Pacific Eurotex engaged in fraud by convincing Plaintiff to waive the
option to extend the Lease and subsequently entering into the October 2025
Lease without Plaintiff.  (FAC ¶¶14, 15.)
 Plaintiff fails to allege how Printex’s
act of entering into the October 2025 Lease was wrongful. This is especially
true since the removal of the option to extend occurred in 2019 as part of the
Second Amendment to the Lease. The October 2025 Lease was only entered into in the
year 2023.
Plaintiff fails to allege how Printex intentionally induced
Plaintiff to remove the option to extend the Lease in 2019 to allow Printex to
enter the October 2025 Lease in 2023.
Plaintiff does allege that Printex failed to pay Plaintiff profits
as part of their agreement to split profits. (FAC ¶18).  However, “[a]n omission to perform a contract obligation
is never a tort.”  (Erlich v. Menezes
(1999) 21 Cal.4th 543.) Therefore, Plaintiff has failed to establish the
wrongfulness requirement for conspiracy.
Plaintiff fails to allege how Printex conspired to defraud
Plaintiff by entering the October 2025 Lease without Plaintiff.  Plaintiff fails to allege how Defendants SCKS,
LAML, Shawn, and Brian were involved in the alleged conspiracy to defraud.  The only allegation made by Plaintiff in this
regard is that Printex used LAML as a “straw man” run by Shawn and Brian. (FAC
¶¶15, 49.)  Plaintiff’s allegations,
however, are conclusory as they fail to explain how SCKS, LAML, Shawn, and
Brian participated or agreed to engage in the alleged conspiracy to defraud. Therefore,
Plaintiff fails to allege an “agreement between two or more persons” for conspiracy.  Finally, Plaintiff fails to make its
allegations with the requisite specificity for a fraud cause of action. The specificity requirement means a plaintiff must allege facts
showing how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were
made, and, in the case of a corporate defendant, the plaintiff must allege the
names of the persons who made the representations, their authority to speak on
behalf of the corporation, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and
when the representation was made.  (Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645; West v. JPMorgan Chase
Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 780, 793.)
Accordingly, Moving Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 6th cause
of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Negligence (7th COA)
“The elements of a cause of action for negligence are well
established. They are ‘(a) a legal duty to use due care; (b) a breach of such
legal duty; [and] (c) the breach as the proximate or legal cause of the
resulting injury.’”  (Ladd v. County
of San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917.)
Plaintiff alleges at all times relevant herein, Ben and Printex
each had a duty to exercise reasonable care and skill and to act in good faith
towards Plaintiff.  (FAC ¶54.)  Plaintiff alleges they each had a duty not to
usurp or jeopardize the economic advantages Plaintiff had built up in doing
business with SCKS and others regarding the Premises.  (FAC ¶54.) 
Plaintiff alleges Printex and Ben also promised to not usurp lease opportunities
with SCKS, as well as not to impugn Plaintiff’s reputation with SCKS.  (FAC ¶54.) 

Plaintiff alleges Printex and Plaintiff, through their principals
Ben and Issac, also agreed to resolve any disputes in good faith, but breached
this duty by circumventing Plaintiff to go sign a lease with SCKS once the
Lease expires, thereby taking a hostile position against Plaintiff and putting
Ben in a position to evict Plaintiff in 2025. 
(FAC ¶55.)  
Plaintiff fails to allege a legal duty or a breach of duty,
outside of the
contractual obligations of Printex.  (FAC ¶18.)  “A person may not ordinarily recover in tort
for the breach of duties that merely restate contractual obligations.  Instead, ‘[c]ourts will generally enforce the
breach of a contractual promise through contract law, except when the actions
that constitute the breach violate a social policy that merits the imposition
of tort remedies.’”  (Stop Loss Insurance
Brokers, Inc. v. Brown & Toland Medical Group (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th
1036, 1041.)
          Accordingly, Moving
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 7th cause of action is sustained with 20
days leave to amend.
 
          Tortious
Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage (8th COA)
“Intentional interference with prospective economic advantage has
five elements: (1) the existence, between the plaintiff and some third party,
of an economic relationship that contains the probability of future economic
benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant’s knowledge of the relationship;
(3) intentionally wrongful acts designed to disrupt the relationship; (4)
actual disruption of the relationship; and (5) economic harm proximately caused
by the defendant’s action.”  (Roy
Allan Slurry Seal, Inc. v. American Asphalt South, Inc. (2017) 2 Cal.5th
505, 512.)
“The elements of negligent interference with prospective economic
advantage are (1) the existence of an economic relationship between the
plaintiff and a third party containing the probability of future economic
benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant’s knowledge of the relationship;
(3) the defendant’s knowledge (actual or construed) that the relationship would
be disrupted if the defendant failed to act with reasonable care; (4) the
defendant’s failure to act with reasonable care; (5) actual disruption of the
relationship; (6) and economic harm proximately caused by the defendant’s
negligence.”  (Redfearn v. Trader
Joe’s Co. (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 989, 1005.)
“With respect to the third element, a plaintiff must show that the
defendant engaged in an independently wrongful act. It is not necessary to
prove that the defendant acted with the specific intent, or purpose, of
disrupting the plaintiff's prospective economic advantage. Instead, ‘it is
sufficient for the plaintiff to plead that the defendant “[knew] that the
interference is certain or substantially certain to occur as a result of his
action.”’ ‘[A]n act is independently wrongful if it is unlawful, that is, if it
is proscribed by some constitutional, statutory, regulatory, common law, or
other determinable legal standard.’ ‘[A]n act must be wrongful by some legal
measure, rather than merely a product of an improper, but lawful, purpose or
motive.’”  (San Jose Construction,
Inc. v. S.B.C.C., Inc. (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 1528, 1544-1545, internal
citations omitted.)
The “tort of negligent interference with economic relationship
arises only when the defendant owes the plaintiff a duty of care.”  (LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52
Cal.App.4th 326, 348.)
Plaintiff alleges Ben and Printex knew/were aware that Plaintiff
was engaging in business dealings with the tenants that did and probably would have
resulted in further an economic benefit to Plaintiff.  (FAC ¶59.)  Plaintiff alleges Ben and Printex interfered
and usurped Plaintiff’s opportunity for themselves both financially and otherwise.
 (FAC ¶59.)  Plaintiff alleges as a direct and proximate
result of these Defendants’ conduct, Plaintiff suffered compensatory, general,
and special damages in amounts to be proven at trial.  (FAC ¶59.)  
Plaintiff alleges Ben and Printex knew or should have known that
Plaintiff was engaging in business dealings with the tenants that did and
probably would have resulted in further an economic benefit to Plaintiff.  (FAC ¶60.)  Plaintiff alleges Ben and Printex interfered
and usurped Plaintiff’s opportunity for themselves both financially and otherwise.
 (FAC ¶60.)  Plaintiff alleges Ben and Printex knew or
should have known that Plaintiff’s relationship with the tenants would be
disrupted if they failed to act with reasonable care.  (FAC ¶60.)  Plaintiff alleges Ben and Printex failed to
act with reasonable care.  (FAC ¶60.)  Plaintiff alleges as a direct and proximate
result of these Defendants’ negligent conduct, Plaintiff suffered compensatory,
general, and special damages in amounts to be proven at trial.  (FAC ¶60.)
Plaintiff fails to allege how Defendants LAML, Shawn, and Brian owed
Plaintiff a duty of care. Plaintiff fails to allege how Defendants LAML, Shawn,
and Brian breached any duty to Plaintiff. Regarding Printex and Morad, Plaintiff
fails to allege how they prevented Plaintiff from being included in the October
2025 Lease.  Further, Plaintiff fails to
allege Defendants engaged in an independently wrongful act.  (San Jose Construction, Inc., 155
Cal.App.4th at pgs. 1544-1545.)
Finally, the Court notes a cause of action for negligent
interference should be alleged separately from a cause of action for
intentional interference.  Here,
Plaintiff combines the two separate causes of action as one cause of action,
which is improper.
Accordingly, Moving Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 8th cause
of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Tortious Interference with Contract (9th COA)
“The elements which a plaintiff must plead to state the cause of
action for intentional interference with contractual relations are (1) a valid
contract between plaintiff and a third party; (2) defendant’s knowledge of this
contract; (3) defendant’s intentional acts designed to induce a breach or
disruption of the contractual relationship; (4) actual breach or disruption of
the contractual relationship; and (5) resulting damage.”  (Pacific Gas & Electric Co. v. Bear
Stearns & Co. (1990) 50 Cal.3d 1118, 1126, internal citations omitted.)
“[A] cause of action for intentional interference with contract
requires an underlying enforceable contract. Where there is no existing,
enforceable contract, only a claim for interference with prospective advantage
may be pleaded.”  (PMC, Inc. v. Saban
Entertainment, Inc. (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 579, 601.)
Plaintiff alleges at all times relevant herein, these defendants
intentionally or negligently interfered with Plaintiff’s contract/Lease with
SCKS and the subleases arising therefrom. 
(FAC ¶62.)
Plaintiff alleges on information and belief that Defendants, and
each of them, knew/were aware that Plaintiff and SCKS were in an economic
relationship that did and probably would have resulted in an economic benefit
to Plaintiff. (FAC ¶63.)  Plaintiff
alleges Ben lied to it, causing it to waive the Option to extend, all so that Ben
and the other Defendants would then turn around and sign a new lease starting
October 2025 behind Plaintiff’s back and inuring in Defendants’ individual and
collective benefit.  (FAC ¶63.)  Plaintiff alleges by engaging in this conduct
Defendants, and each of them, intended to disrupt Plaintiff’s relationship with
SCKS and knew that disruption of the relationship was certain or substantially certain
to occur.  (FAC ¶63.)  Plaintiff alleges the relationship was
disrupted leaving Plaintiff to potentially be evicted from its long-term
occupancy.  (FAC ¶63.)  Plaintiff alleges as a direct and proximate
result of these Defendants’ negligent conduct, Plaintiff suffered compensatory,
general, and special damages in amounts to be proven at trial.  (FAC ¶63.) 
Plaintiff alleges on information and belief that Defendants, and
each of them, knew or should have known that Plaintiff and SCKS were in an
economic relationship that did and probably would have resulted in an economic
benefit to Plaintiff.  (FAC ¶64.)  Plaintiff alleges Ben lied to it causing it
to waive the Option to extend, all so that Ben and the other Defendants would
then turn around and sign a new lease starting October 2025 behind Plaintiff’s
back and inuring in Defendants’ individual and collective benefit.  (FAC ¶64.) 
Plaintiff alleges Defendants, and each of them knew or should have known
that Plaintiff’s relationship with SCKS would be disrupted if they failed to
act with reasonable care.  (FAC
¶64.)  Plaintiff alleges the Defendants,
and each of them, failed to act with reasonable care in that Ben, on Defendants’
behalf, lied to Plaintiff to induce Plaintiff to not insist on the Option to
Extend, all so that the Defendants would then turn around and sign a new lease
behind Plaintiff’s back.  (FAC ¶64.)  Plaintiff alleges as a direct and proximate
result of these Defendants’ negligent conduct, Plaintiff suffered compensatory,
general, and special damages in amounts to be proven at trial.  (FAC ¶64.) 

Plaintiff fails to allege an underlying contract to lease the
Premises in 2025. Plaintiff fails to allege how Defendants LAML, Shawn, and
Brian interfered with any alleged contract. 
Plaintiff fails to allege how Defendants LAML, Shawn, and Brian breached
any duty to Plaintiff.
Accordingly, Moving Defendants’ demurrer to the 9th cause of
action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Recission (10th COA)
“Rescission is not a cause of action; it is a remedy.”  (Nakash v. Superior Court (1987) 196
Cal.App.3d 59, 70.)  Moreover, a
prerequisite to any claim for rescission is a contract between the parties. (4
Witkin, Cal. Procedure (5th ed. 2008) Pleading, §542, pg. 668.)  Rescission requires each party to the contract
to restore to the other everything of value received under the contract: “[T]o
effect a rescission a party to the contract must, promptly upon
discovering the facts which entitle him to rescind if he is free from duress,
menace, undue influence or disability and is aware of his right to rescind: [¶]
(a) Give notice of rescission to the party as to whom he rescinds; and [¶] (b) Restore
to the other party everything of value which he has received from him under the
contract or offer to restore the same upon condition that the other party do
likewise, unless the latter is unable or positively refuses to do so.” (Viterbi
v. Wasserman (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th 927, 935, citing Civ. Code §1691.)
Plaintiff pleads an invalid cause of action.  Plaintiff fails to plead any breach of
contract claim against Defendants LAML, Shawn, and Brian that would merit the
remedy of rescission.  Assuming, arguendo,
Plaintiff did allege a breach of contract by these unrelated defendants, no
allegations were made that would support a supposed breach. 
Accordingly, Moving Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 10th cause
of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Reformation (11th COA)
Civil Code §3399 allows for a contract to be reformed in the
following circumstances: “When, through fraud or a mutual mistake of the
parties, or a mistake of one party, which the other at the time knew or
suspected, a written contract does not truly express the intention of the
parties, it may be revised on the application of a party aggrieved, so as to
express that intention, so far as it can be done without prejudice to rights
acquired by third persons, in good faith and for value.”  (Civ. Code §3399.)
Plaintiff’s opposition concedes “Reformation is an equitable
contract remedy; not a cause of action.” 
(Opposition, pg. 22.)
Plaintiff pleads an invalid cause of action.
Accordingly, Moving Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 11th cause
of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Attorney’s Fees for Tort of Another (12th COA)
The tort of another doctrine holds that “[a] person who through
the tort of another has been required to act in the protection of his interests
by bringing or defending an action against a third person is entitled to
recover compensation for the reasonably necessary loss of time, attorney’s
fees, and other expenditures thereby suffered or incurred.”  (Prentice v. North American Title Guaranty
Corp. (1963) 59 Cal.2d 618, 620.)
The tort of another doctrine is not really an exception to the
American rule, but simply “an application of the usual measure of tort
damages.”  (1338 Sooy v. Peter
(1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 1305, 1310 [equating recovery of attorney fees as damages
to medical fees recovered in personal injury action].)
With regard to damages, the “tort of another doctrine applies to
economic damages (i.e., attorney fees incurred in litigation with third
parties) suffered as a result of an alleged tort.” As such, “nearly all of the
cases which have applied the [tort of another] doctrine involve a clear
violation of a traditional tort duty between the tortfeasor who is required to
pay the attorney fees and the person seeking compensation for those fees.”  (Mega RV Corp. v. HWH Corp. (2014) 225
Cal.App.4th 1318, 1339-1340.)
Plaintiff alleges it is suing SCKS to enforce Plaintiff’s rights
under the Lease and extensions thereof, simply as a result of the tortious
conduct of the other defendants, and each of them, outlined above.  (FAC ¶75.) 
Plaintiff alleges but for the aforesaid tortious conduct, Plaintiff
would not be suing SCKS for rescission, declaratory relief and relied under the
UCL.  (FAC ¶75.)
“An omission to perform a contract obligation is never a tort,
unless that omission is also an omission of a legal duty.”  (Erlich, 21 Cal.4th at pg. 551.)
Plaintiff has only pled potential facts for a breach of contract claim;
Plaintiff failed to allege a cause of action for conduct on behalf of any
defendants.
Further, attorneys’ fees for tort of another is not a valid,
standalone cause of action.
Accordingly, Moving Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 12th cause
of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Violation of UCL (13th COA)
An action for unfair business practices requires “an unlawful
business practice or act which is an act or practice, committed pursuant to
business activity, that is at the same time forbidden by law.”  (Farmers Insurance Exchange v. Superior
Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 377, 383.)
Plaintiff alleges Defendants engaged in unfair business practices,
for profit or otherwise, and have engaged in the following unlawful, unfair,
deceptive, and misleading business practices, by, amongst other acts, entering
into a new lease with SCKS behind Plaintiff’s back, misappropriating tenant
rents, and renting the Premises for illegal activities.  (FAC ¶81.)
Plaintiff fails to allege any practice by Defendants that is
forbidden by law.
Accordingly, Moving Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 13th cause
of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Conclusion
Moving Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s FAC is sustained with
20 days leave to amend as to the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th,
11th, 12th, and 13th causes of action, and overruled as to the 4th cause of
action.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
 
Dated:  June _____, 2024
                                                                             





  