  Case Number:  22STCV07972    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
 
County of Los Angeles
 
Department 40
 



MICHELLE LEONARD,
Plaintiff,
v.
BRIAN E. CLAYPOOL; THE CLAYPOOL LAW FIRM; and DOES 1
  through 20, inclusive,
Defendants.
  


 Case No.: 22STCV07972
 Hearing Date: 12/7/23
 Trial Date: 6/11/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant Brian E. Claypool and Claypool Law Firm’s Motion
  to Compel Plaintiff Michelle Leonard’s to Serve Further Verified Responses
  and to Produce all Responsive Documents for Request for Production of
  Documents, Set One, and Motion for Monetary Sanctions. 



 
On January 19, 2023, Defendants Brian E. Claypool and Claypool Law
Firm (“Defendants”) served Plaintiff Michelle Leonard (“Plaintiff”) with their
Request for Production of Documents, Set One (“RPDs”) via electronic mail. On
March 20, 2023, Plaintiff served her responses and only produced limited
documents. In Plaintiff’s responses, Plaintiff attested under penalty of
perjury that she would produce all documents in her possession, custody, or
control in response to request numbers 15, 16, and 29.
 
Defendants now bring this motion to compel further responses to
request for production of documents, set one, which Plaintiff opposed on
November 22, 2023 and to which Defendants’ replied on November 30 2023. 
 
After review, the Court GRANTS the Motion because Plaintiff’s statement
of compliance with the demand to produce is incomplete.
 
Background Allegations
Plaintiff Michelle Leonard (“Plaintiff”) sues Defendants Brian E. Claypool, Claypool Law
Firm (“Defendants”), and DOES 1 through 20 pursuant to a March 4, 2022
Complaint alleging claims of (1) Professional Negligence; (2) Breach of
Fiduciary Duty; and (3) Breach of Contract. 
 
            On April 28, 2023, Defendants’
counsel sent Plaintiff’s counsel a meet and confer letter, which detailed why
Plaintiff’s responses and document production were insufficient as to request
numbers 15, 16, and 29 of Defendants’ Request for Production of Documents, Set
One (“RPDs”). 
 
            On May 12, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel
sent Defendants’ counsel a letter guaranteeing that Plaintiff would produce all
documents in response to request number 15, 16, and 29, and extend any
applicable Motion to Compel deadline until 45 days after the documents were
produced. On the same day, Defendants’ counsel responded with an email
confirming the extension and seeking clarification as to when Plaintiff would
produce her additional documents. 
            
On May 26, 2023; June 16, 2023; and July 7, 2023, Defendants’
counsel sent two more emails and another letter requesting the further
responses or additional documents. 
 
            On July 13, 2023, Plaintiff’s
counsel sent Defendants’ counsel an email with a Dropbox link purportedly
containing Plaintiff’s additional document production. On the dame day, Defendants’
counsel sent Plaintiff’s counsel an email requesting access to the Dropbox
because provided link did not work. 
 
            On July 21, 2023, Defendants’
counsel sent Plaintiff’s counsel another email stating he was not able to
access the Dropbox link and requesting access to it. On July 28, 2023,
Plaintiff’s counsel produced certain additional documents, which Defendants’
counsel found to still be insufficient. On the same day, Defendants’ counsel
informed Plaintiff’s counsel that if Plaintiff did not produce all of her
responsive documents by August 4, 2023, he would filed this instant motion. As of
the filing of the motion, Defendants have not received Plaintiff’s further
verified responses of additional document production pursuant to Defendants’
RPDs.
 
Evidentiary Objections
Reply
Objections to Plaintiff’s Declaration, Compel Further Responses to Production
Motion
Objection
No. 1: SUSTAINED [Irrelevant; Lacks Foundation; Argumentative]
Objection
No. 2: OVERRULED [Irrelevant]
Reply
Objections to Gerry’s Declaration, Compel Further Responses to Production
Motion
Objection
No. 1: SUSTAINED [Irrelevant; Lacks Foundation; Argumentative]
Objection
No. 2: OVERRULED [Irrelevant]
 
Motion to Compel Further Production 
 
Legal Standard
A motion to compel a further response is used when a party gives
unsatisfactory answers or makes untenable objections to interrogatories,
demands to produce, or requests for admission. (See Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (a); Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific
Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403.) To request further
production, a movant must establish: (1) good cause for the production (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1); Sinaiko, supra, at p. 403);
and (2) that a further response is needed because (a) the responding party’s
statement of compliance with the demand to produce is incomplete Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a)(1)), (b) the responding party’s representation
that it is unable to comply is inadequate, complete, or evasive (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a)(2)), (c) the responding party’s objection in the
response is without merit or is too general (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd.
(a)(3); Catalina Island Yacht Club v. Superior Court (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th
1116, 1127), or (d) if the responding party objected to the production of ESI
on the ground that it is not reasonably accessible the movant can show that the
(i) ESI is reasonably accessible or (ii) there is good cause for production of
the ESI regardless of its accessibility (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd.
(e)).
 
Order Compelling Further Responses, Production: GRANTED
Here, Defendants argue that despite agreeing to produce additional
documents in response to Defendants’ RPDs Set One, Nos. 15, 16, and 29,
Plaintiff has in bad faith failed to do so. (Mot., 7:15-19; Yee Decl., ¶¶ 6, 9,
19, Exhs. B, D.) Defendants’ original request for this production was not met
with any objections. Plaintiff simply states that all responsive documents in
her possession, custody, or control would be produced. However, Defendants are vague
in the motion, declaration of counsel, exhibit to the declaration, and the
separate statement as to precisely what the alleged inadequacy was.
Plaintiff’s opposition asserts that the responsive documents are
in the exclusive possession of the requesting party, where she has been asking
for her legal file and an accounting of funds from her former attorney Brian Claypool
for over a year. Without such documents, Plaintiff contends that she has
produced all documents in her possession in response to RPDs Nos. 15 and 16
[which request all documents that evidence payments that she received in the
underlying action, or for the underlying incident]. (Opp at p. 4.) As to RPD
Set One, No. 29, which request documents that evidence Plaintiff’s income for
the 5 years preceding the incident, Plaintiff argues that the documents
requested are not relevant to the material issues in this instant case, since she
is not seeking any loss of income or loss of earning capacity. (Opp. at pp. 4-5.)
In reply, Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s opposition falsely
asserts that the documents requested in Nos. 15 and 16 are in their exclusive
possession and control. In fact, Defendants’ assert that within Exhibit A of
Plaintiff’s opposition is a letter dated April 5, 2023 from Defendants’ counsel
to Plaintiff’s counsel, where Defendants’ counsel specifically stated that
Plaintiff files were already mailed to her via two boxes and that she confirmed
receipt of those boxes. As for RPD, Set One, No. 29, Defendants argue that a
responding party cannot later assert additional objections that were not
previously asserted without a court order granting relief from waiver.
Furthermore, Defendants’ contend that RPD, Set One, No. 29 has nothing at all
to do with whether Plaintiff is claiming lost income or loss of earning
capacity damages in this present lawsuit. (Reply, pp. 3-4.) Defendants are silent,
however, as to the relevance of the loss of earning to this case, leaving the
Court to speculate based on the nature of this case.
The Court finds that whether Plaintiff has, or has not, received
any documents from Defendants is irrelevant to this motion to compel; her
obligation is to produce all responsive documents that are in her
possession, custody or control. To the extent that Plaintiff has not done so,
she is ordered to provide all such documents responsive to Nos. 15 and 16 or a
verified response stating that she has no responsive documents. Should she choose
the latter approach, such a response may preclude her from producing any documents
that would have been responsive at trial.
As to RPD No. 29, to the extent that Plaintiff contends that she
did not receive full and appropriate compensation from the underlying action,
and to the extent that economic loss was a part of the damages that she sought in
the underlying action, then such documents are relevant and discoverable. Although
she may not be seeking economic damages in the instant case, if she sought them
in the underlying case, and is seeking a finding that her payout in that case
was insufficient, they should be produced.
Thus the Court finds tentatively that Defendants are entitled to
further, and objection-free, verified responses and production to RPDs, Set
One, Nos. 15, 16, and 29, for which reason this motion is GRANTED.
 
Sanctions:
GRANTED
Except in certain circumstances involving electronic stored
information, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response to a
demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (h).)
The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of
a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to
the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the
requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was
filed. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348, subd. (a).)
The Court finds that sanctions are merited here. Plaintiff did not
timely produce the additional documents in response to Defendants’ RPDs, Set
One, Nos. 15, 16, and 29, as initially indicated. Plaintiff has also opposed a
meritorious motion. Plaintiff argues that Defendants’ meet and confer efforts
did not include one single telephone call. However, Defendants sent multiple
meet and confer emails and letters to address the deficient responses. Moreover,
the meet and confer here was adequate given that Plaintiff opposed the motion on
the merits and did not provide the responses after the motion was filed. 
The Court GRANTS sanctions, in the reduced amount of $2,180.00,
comprised of a fee rate of $265 per hour, 3.0 hours for preparing this motion, 3.0
hours reasonably expended reviewing and replying to the opposition, 2.0 hours
preparing and appearing at this hearing, and $60 for filing this motion. (Compare
Yee Decl., ¶¶ 23-26.) The Court notes that while counsel could have done more
to explain the years of experience and general grounds supporting counsel’s fee
rate, it is a low enough rate in the Los Angeles market as not to require
additional support.
Conclusion
Defendant Brian E. Claypool and Claypool Law Firm’s Motion to
Compel Plaintiff Michelle Leonard’s to Serve Further Verified Responses and to
Produce all Responsive Documents for Request for Production of Documents, Set
One, Nos. 15, 16, and 29 is GRANTED.
Plaintiff Michelle Leonard is ORDERED to provide production to
Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, Nos. 15, 16, and  29 within 10 days of this ruling.
Defendant Brian E. Claypool and Claypool Law Firm’s corresponding
Request for Monetary Sanctions is GRANTED. 
Plaintiff Michelle Leonard, Century Law Group and the Law Offices
of Kevin Gerry, jointly and severally, is ORDERED to pay sanctions in the
amount of $2,180.00 to Defendants’ attorneys within 30 days of this ruling.