 Case Number:  23STCV01110    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
 
County of Los Angeles
 
Department 40
 



KAREN FLORES,
                                Plaintiff,
v.
EVERBRANDS, INC., a California corporation; EVERBRANDS,
  INC., a Delaware corporation; MICHEAL FLORMAN, an individual; YON LAI, an
  individual, and DOES 1-25,
                               Defendants. 
 


 Case No.:          23STCV01110
 Hearing Date:   12/07/23
 Trial Date:        09/03/24
 TENTATIVE RULING RE:
1)     Motion to Compel Responses
  to Form Interrogatories (Set 1), Sent to Yon Lai (General) and Request for
  Sanctions in the Amount of $3,620.51 Against Yon Lai and his Attorney of
  Record Allyson Thompson (CRS ID: 8568)
 



 
Background Allegations
Pleadings
            Plaintiff Karen Flores (Plaintiff)
sues Defendants Everbrands, Inc., a California Corporation (Everbrands CA),
Everbrands, Inc., a Delaware Corporation (Everbrands DE) (collectively, Everbrands,
Inc.), Michael Florman (Florman), Yon Lai (Lai), and Does 1-25 pursuant to a January
18, 2023 Complaint alleging claims of (1) Failure to Pay a Minimum Wage, (2)
Failure to Pay Overtime, (3) Failure to Provide rest Breaks, (4) Failure to
Provide Meal Breaks, (5) Inaccurate Wage Statements, (6) Waiting Wage Penalties
(Cal. Labor Code §§ 201-203), (7) Unfair Competition and Unlawful Business
Practices – (Cal. Bus. Code § 17200), and (8) Failure to Provide Records. 
            The claims arise from allegations
that when Plaintiff was employed by Defendants, she was paid less than the
applicable minimum wage, was not compensated for overtime, and was not compensated
for and/or provided meal and rest breaks.
            Motion Before the Court
            On July 24, 2023, Plaintiff served
discovery on Defendant Lai. Discovery was served on Allyson K. Thompson,
Esq., and Laura P. Birnbaum, Esq., Plaintiff’s counsel. On September 11, 2023,
substantive responses were received by Plaintiff from Defense counsel, however
the responses were not verified. 
            Plaintiff sent a meet and
confer letter on September 19, 2023, but Defendant did not respond. Plaintiff then filed this motion
before the Court, the Motion to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories on
October 2, 2023. An
opposition was filed by Defendant on November 22, 2023. An untimely one-page reply
brief was filed by Plaintiff on December 4, 2023.
 
Discussion
Legal
Standard for Motion to Compel Interrogatories -  
            If a party
to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling responses and for a monetary
sanction. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subds. (b), (c).) Failure to timely
respond waives all objections, including privilege and work product, unless
“[t]he party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial
compliance” and “[t]he party’s failure to serve a timely response was the
result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (CCP § 2030.290, subds.
(a)(1), (a)(2).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel
where no responses have been served and no meet and confer is required when a
party does not respond to discovery requests. All that need be shown in the
moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the
opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of
any kind has been served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d
902, 905-906.)
            If a motion
to compel responses to interrogatories is filed, the Court may impose a
monetary sanction against the losing party “unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290, subd. (c).)
 
Analysis
– 
            Plaintiff filed this Motion for the stated
purpose of achieving two goals: (1) to obtain verified responses and (2) to issue
sanctions in the amount of $3,620.51
against Defendant Lai and his attorney of record. As the first goal has been achieved, the request for an order
compelling verified responses is moot. 
            For this Motion Plaintiff puts forth
the Declaration of Arash Shirdel, Esq. (“Shirdel Dec.”) which states that on
July 24, 2023, Plaintiff propounded discovery on Defendant Lai. (Shirdel Dec.,
¶ 2.) After an extension was granted responses were served, but without
verification. (Shirdel Dec., ¶ 4.) “Unsworn responses are tantamount to
no responses at all.” (Appleton v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d
632, 636.) However, Plaintiff
received verified responses on November 13, 2023, albeit two months after the
agreed upon deadline of September 11, 2023, and well after this Motion was
filed on October 2. (Declaration of Allyson K. Thompson, Exh. H.)
Plaintiff has not provided
authority to the effect that, where substantive responses to written discovery
are made with verification to follow, a failure to verify within a certain
period of time renders the initial unverified responses a nullity such that
subsequent verification cannot remedy the lack of verification. The proper
vehicle to challenge the sufficiency of the now-verified September 11, 2023
responses is to file a motion to compel further responses to the form interrogatories.
            Thus, the Court finds the motion
moot. 
Sanctions – 
Although the motion is moot at this point, the issue of sanctions
still remains. (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1348 subd. (a).)
Plaintiff Flores brought this
motion to obtain verified responses to her discovery request. The verifications
provided on November 13, 2023 brought the responses up to Code. Plaintiff thus
has the sought after verified interrogatory responses and has not provided
authority to the effect that, where substantive responses to written discovery
are made with verification to follow, a failure to verify within a certain
period of time renders the initial unverified responses a nullity such that
subsequent verification cannot remedy the lack of verification. The proper
vehicle to challenge the sufficiency of the now-verified responses, is to file
a motion to compel further responses. Therefore, the Court declines to impose
sanctions at this time.
While the Court recognizes the
Plaintiff’s frustration at receiving the verification late, the Court finds
that the imposition of sanctions in this case would be unjust. (Code Civ. Proc.
section 2030.300 subd. (d).) Defendant
argues that sanctions should be denied because of an inadequate service and
meet and confer, claiming the motion was sent only by email without Plaintiff
confirming the correct email address as required by Code Civ. Proc. section
1010.6. They further point out that multiple mistakes were made in the proofs
of service, including the usage of a name that does not belong in this case.
Further, Defendants argue that the Motion should be denied because Plaintiff
did not engage in a good faith meet and confer when they only sent over one
letter during a time when Defendants’ counsel was heavily involved in preparing
a motion for summary judgment in a different case. (Declaration of Allyson
Thompson, ¶ 5.) 
The Court accepts Defendant’s
representations that the failure to provide the verifications was inadvertent,
and finds that the verification was thereafter provided. Awarding sanctions in
every case where a motion to compel is filed before the responses are provided
paints with too broad a brush. When ruling on requests for sanctions in
discovery, the Court is called upon to distinguish between cases in which a
party is either stonewalling and failing to adhere to its duty to provide
discovery, or taking needlessly antagonistic or unreasonable positions in
discovery on the one hand, and inadvertence and mistakes on the other. Rare is
the attorney who has never made a mistake during litigation; not all such
mistakes should result in sanctions. On the other hand, where one party is taking
unreasonable positions and failing to cooperate, sanctions are an important
tool in gaining cooperation or creating consequences. 
Moreover, the amount of sanctions
requested in this motion is excessive, where Plaintiff has filed at least four motions
on the subject of the failure to provide verifications which are identical but
for the precise item of written discovery at issue.
Therefore, the Court finds that the
imposition of sanctions in this matter would be unjust.
The Court again encourages the
parties to use the Court’s Informal Discovery Conference program which in this
case, could have saved Plaintiff from having to file the instant motion to
compel and at least three others previously heard.         
Conclusion
- 
            Accordingly, the Motion is DENIED as
MOOT and the request for sanctions is DENIED.  