  Case Number:  21STCV16429    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling  Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31   HEARING DATE: October 21, 2024   TRIAL DATE:  October 13, 2025  CASE:   Baha Tan Toksoz  v. Chris Furie, et al.  CASE NO.:    21STCV16429    MOTION TO REOPEN DISCOVERY   MOVING PARTY: Defendant Chris Furie  RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Baha Tan Toksoz   I. FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND   This is a breach of contract case.  According to the complaint, Plaintiff, Baha Tan Toksoz, reached out to Chris Furie (Furie), a real estate broker, for assistance in purchasing a property located at 943 N. Laurel Avenue in Los Angeles, California.  Instead of assisting Plaintiff with the purchase of 943 N. Laurel Avenue, Furie proposed the purchase of 944 N. Laurel Avenue in Los Angeles, California (the Subject Property).  Furie represented that he and his company, 944 Laurel, LLC (944 Laurel) were in the process of purchasing the property from its owner, Alex Goodson (Goodson).  On November 5, 2019, Plaintiff eventually entered into an oral lease agreement with Furie for the Subject Property.  The oral agreement had an option to purchase.    Pursuant to the agreement, Furie directed Plaintiff to deposit $118,500 into escrow.  The escrow deposit would be used by Defendants to purchase the Subject Property from Goodson.  Furie assured Plaintiff that those funds would be returned if escrow did not close.  Plaintiff was also directed to obtain insurance for the property and to provide proof of same to the escrow.  However, in May of 2020, Furie notified Plaintiff that escrow had terminated and that Plaintiff’s deposit of $118,500 was forfeited as liquidated damages.  Plaintiff did not know there was a liquidated damages clause, let alone agree to said clause, nor was he given notice that the escrow funds were in jeopardy.  Plaintiff was further unaware that Furie and 944 Laurel were the previous owners of the Subject Property, that they had sold it to Goodson, that Goodson had filed a notice of recission for the Subject Property on April 1, 2018, and that Goodson initiated litigation against Furie and 944 N. Laurel over misrepresentations concerning the Subject Property.  That litigation, filed on October 24, 2019 in Los Angeles Superior Court, Case No. 19STCV38262, was ongoing for nearly the entire duration of Plaintiff’s dealings with Furie.  Plaintiff alleges that Furie never intended to sell the Subject Property to Plaintiff and used Plaintiff’s deposit of $118,500 to extract themselves out of the lawsuit with Goodson.  On April 30, 2021, Plaintiff commenced this action against defendants Furie and 944 Laurel, LLC.    On August 30, 2021, Plaintiff filed the First Amended Complaint (FAC).  The FAC alleged causes of action for (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, (3) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, (4) Violation of Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200, (5) Fraud, (6) Misrepresentation, (7) Negligence, (8) Conversion, and (9) Violation of Penal Code § 496.  Defendants filed an Answer to the FAC on October 12, 2021.  On November 2, 2023, Defendants filed a non-statutory motion for judgment on the pleadings to the third and ninth causes of action in the FAC.  On December 1, 2023, the court granted the motion as to the third cause of action and denied the motion as to the ninth cause of action.  Leave to amend was granted.  On December 15, 2023, Plaintiff filed the Second Amended Complaint (SAC).  The SAC asserted the same causes of action as the TAC.  Defendants demurred to the SAC.    On April 4, 2024, prior to the hearing for the demurrer, Plaintiff filed the Third Amended Complaint (TAC).  The TAC, which is the operative pleading, asserts the third cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty against Defendant Furie only.  Defendants filed an Answer to the TAC on April 26, 2024.  Background for Motion to Reopen Discovery   Trial was initially scheduled for December 5, 2022.    On October 27, 2022, the court granted Plaintiff’s ex parte application to continue the trial date and all related motion and discovery dates.  Trial was continued to July 24, 2023.  All related trial dates were reset accordingly.  On June 7, 2023, the court continued the jury trial to August 7, 2023, on its own motion.  On June 23, 2023, the court continued the jury trial to December 4, 2023, pursuant to oral stipulation.  On November 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed an ex parte application to continue the trial, the final status conference, and related motion in limine dates.  The application was supported by the parties’ stipulation to continue the trial date.  The stipulation expressly stated that discovery in the matter was to remain closed, with the exception of the depositions of expert witnesses.    On November 22, 2023, Department 49 granted Plaintiff’s ex parte application.  As requested, discovery deadlines were not continued.  The court set a trial setting conference.  After several continuances, the trial setting conference was scheduled for September 19, 2024.    On June 4, 2024, Defendants issued a subpoena to take the deposition non-party witness, David Illulian (Illulian).  The deposition was scheduled for June 26, 2024.  Plaintiff timely objected to the deposition on the grounds that discovery had closed.  Defendants now seek an order to reopen discovery so that they may take Mr. Illulian’s deposition.  The motion was heard on September 19, 2024.  In advance of the hearing, the court issued a tentative ruling denying the motion.  After oral argument, the court continued the hearing and ordered supplemental briefing on the relevance of Mr. Illulian’s testimony.    On the same day, trial was scheduled for October 13, 2025 in this matter.   On October 4, 2024, Defendant filed the declaration of his counsel with supporting exhibits.  On October 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed a supplemental response.  The court now rules as follows.      II. LEGAL STANDARD   Except as otherwise provided, any party shall be entitled as a matter of right to complete discovery proceedings on or before the 30th day, and to have motions concerning discovery heard on or before the 15th day, before the date initially set for trial of the action.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020, subd. (a).)¿ On motion of any party, the court may grant leave to complete discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard, closer to the initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date has been set.¿ This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration demonstrating a good faith effort at informal resolution.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subd. (a).)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿  The court shall take into consideration any matter relevant to the leave requested, including, but not limited to: (1) the necessity and the reasons for the discovery, (2) the diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was not heard earlier, (3) any likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any other party, and (4) the length of time that has elapsed between any date previously set, and the date presently set, for the trial of the action.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subd. (b).)¿¿  III. DISCUSSION¿  Upon consideration of the relevant factors and the filings in connection to this matter, the court finds good cause does not exist to reopen discovery.¿ ¿ The Relevant Factors¿ ¿ 1) The necessity of and reason for discovery:¿ Mr. Illulian is Plaintiff’s former landlord. Because Defendants initially failed to explain who Mr. Illulian was or his connection to the case, the court continued the hearing to allow Defendants to file a supplemental brief explaining the relevance of Mr. Illulian’s testimony.  Instead, Defendants submitted the declaration of their counsel, Louis R. Chao.  Mr. Chao explains the relevance of Mr. Illulian’s testimony as follows:    “During his deposition, TOKZOS testified that about the same time that he was involved with the purchase of the Subject Property, he told Mr. Illulian that: 1) he had only booked two families in the prior three months and had to refund approximately $850,000 to guests that had booked stays from March – July 2020; 2) “he was losing thousands of dollars everyday [sic] due to the pandemic and the protests;” 3) he could not pay the rent on the ILLULIAN Rental Properties; 4) it was going to take him three years to get back to the same pre-pandemic occupancy levels; and 5) the business could not break even anymore. (See, Exhibit “A,” TOKZOS’ deposition transcript at pp. 167 – 179. Also see email string between TOKZOS and Mr. Illulian related to TOKZOS’ efforts to get out of the leases for the ILLULIAN Rental Properties. A true and correct copy is attached hereto as Exhibit “E”—the same document was marked as Exhibit 17 to the deposition of TOKZOS.)  On May 12, 2020, after the purchase of the Subject Property fell through, FURIE let TOKZOS know that he (FURIE) remained ready to proceed with the deal. In an email, FURIE wrote, in part, that:   … Let me know if your circumstances change and you are able to raise the funds needed to proceed with the purchase of the property under the terms of the Option Agreement. If by then the Seller has not sold the property I am still prepared to go forward with the purchase of the property and Option Agreement with you.  The deposition of David Illulian is relevant to FURIE’S defense because FURIE alleges that TOKZOS failed to meet his obligations under their agreement to purchase the Subject Property. Just like TOKZOS lied repeatedly to Mr. Illulian to try to get out of the leases for the ILLULIAN Rental Properties, TOKZOS appears to have also lied to FURIE about his interest and/or ability to buy the Subject Property, once TOKZOS learned of the potential impact of COVID-19 on his business. Therefore, David Illulian’s deposition testimony goes to TOKZOS’ credibility and prior inconsistent statements.”  (Chao Decl., ¶¶ 8-10, emphasis in original.)      In short, Defendants seek Mr. Illulian’s testimony to show Plaintiff was untruthful in his dealings with Furie.  Beyond, perhaps, Plaintiff’s specific instance of dishonesty,1 the court fails to see the relevance.  Defendants established that Mr. Illulian lacks any connection to the Subject Property.  To the extent Defendants seek Mr. Illulian’s testimony to confirm Plaintiff made representations to Mr. Illulian which conflict with Plaintiff’s representations to Furie, Mr. Illulian’s deposition is necessary.  Plaintiff already admitted he made those representations to Mr. Illulian.  (See Chao Decl., Ex. A, pp. 167-169.)  Defendants do not show what other purpose is served or what other information can be obtained from Mr. Illulian which might be relevant to the claims raised.  This factor weighs against Defendants’ request.     ¿ 2) Diligence or Lack of Diligence; Reasons Discovery Was Not Completed; Earlier Hearing for the Motion:¿ Defendants argue the pleadings were not yet at issue until they filed an answer to the TAC on April 26, 2024.  Thereafter, on June 4, 2024, Defendants moved to take Mr. Illulian’s deposition. ¿For this reason, Defendants argue they diligently sought to depose Mr. Illulian.    Defendants mischaracterize the procedural history of this case.  Defendants answered the FAC in 2021. The parties conducted discovery throughout the pendency of this litigation until discovery closed in December 2023.  Defendants do not show why Mr. Illulian’s deposition was not taken prior to the close of discovery.  The supplemental “briefing” is similarly deficient and omits any discussion of diligence.  Instead, for the first time, Defendants state Mr. Illulian has suffered health scares which has prompted Defendants to seek Mr. Illulian’s deposition testimony in the event Mr. Illulian is unavailable to testify at trial.  However, there is no evidence presented of Mr. Illulian’s poor health.  In essence, Defendants confuse the issues.  The issue is whether Defendants have demonstrated diligence in completing discovery.   Defendants do not make that showing.  This factor weighs against Defendants’ request. ¿ ¿ 3) Likelihood Permitting Discovery Will Prevent The Case From Going To Trial; Interfere With The Trial Calendar; Result In Prejudice:¿ Although no discussed by the parties, granting the motion will likely not result in a continuance.¿ Trial is scheduled for October 13, 2025.¿ This factor weighs in Defendants’ favor.¿¿ ¿ 4) The Length Of Time Between The Prior Trial Date And The Date Presently Set:¿ Trial was initially set for December 5, 2022.  Trial is now scheduled for October 13, 2025.    ¿ After balancing the factors and considering the equities, the court finds good cause does not exist to reopen discovery.¿¿ ¿ IV. CONCLUSION¿¿ ¿ The motion to reopen discovery is DENIED.¿ Plaintiff to give notice, unless waived.¿ Dated:   October 21, 2024    ¿ ¿¿¿ ¿ ¿ Kerry Bensinger¿¿ ¿ Judge of the Superior Court¿    