  Case Number:  21STCV20102    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  55  
NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:  Motion to Stay Proceedings Pending
Determination of Administrative Proceeding Before the Los Angeles County Civil
Service Commission [C.C.P. §128].
 
The motion is denied.
 
Background
In this FEHA case, RIAD ROY ITANI (“Plaintiff”) alleges
that the COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES (“Defendant”) engaged in discrimination and
retaliation, based on his age and national origin/race, including by not
promoting him. 
Defendant has filed a motion seeking a stay of this
action pending the outcome of an administrative proceeding Plaintiff filed that
it pending before the Los Angeles County Civil Service Commission (the “Administrative
Proceeding”). Plaintiff opposes the motion. 
Legal Standard
An employee may, but need not, exhaust a city’s internal
grievance procedures in addition to FEHA's administrative remedy, before
pursuing a FEHA action in superior court. 
Schifando v. City of Los Angeles (2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1074, 1092.  If an employee proceeds with internal grievance
procedures, it is theoretically possible, although not automatic, that an
adverse determination by a civil service commission can become collateral
estoppel or res judicata, depending on factors not now before the Court in this
case.  See, e.g., McDonald v.
Antelope Valley Cmty. Coll. Dist. (2008) 45 Cal. 4th 88, 113 (“plaintiff
elected to pursue her discrimination claim before a civil service commission,
which held numerous hearings and ultimately entered an adverse ruling. Rather
than challenge the ruling through available judicial avenues, the plaintiff
filed a complaint with the DFEH. The Court of Appeal held that the plaintiff
had failed to exhaust her judicial remedies by not seeking mandamus, the civil
service commission's findings were binding until set aside, and those findings
barred her FEHA complaint from going forward.”).
“Trial courts generally have the inherent power to
stay proceedings in the interests of justice and to promote judicial
efficiency.”   Freiberg v. City of
Mission Viejo (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1484, 1489.  CCP sections 128(a)(4) and 187 are “generic
statements of the court's powers to formulate suitable procedures and command
obedience to its orders….”  Clark v.
Optical Coating Lab. (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 150, 164-65.
Analysis
The Court notes that, per the Minute Order entered
11/9/22, the Defendant informed the Court that the Administrative Proceeding
was still pending. The Court thus lifted the stay it had initially issued in
this case on 1/25/22 and set a trial date for 2/20/24.  Because the Court lifted the stay while the Administrative
Proceeding was then still pending, it appears impliedly that the Court
exercised its discretion to lift the stay because of inordinate delay with the
Administrative Proceeding.  
Such delay remains apparent to date because there is
no clarity as to when the Administrative Proceeding will conclude.  While the potential of collateral estoppel or
res judicata theoretically could make a stay more efficient than allowing both
administrative and civil cases to proceed simultaneously, this Court likewise
seeks to avoid excessive delay in reaching some resolution of Plaintiff’s
matters.  Further, Defendant has cited no
authority mandating a stay, and the Court’s own independent research has
revealed no such governing case law.
Therefore, the motion for a stay is denied. The Court
expects to discuss the discovery and trial schedule with the parties at the
hearing. 