  Case Number:  19STCV21850    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



richard meng, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
leon richard mays, et al., 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


19STCV21850




Hearing Date:


January 22, 2024




Hearing Time:


2:00 p.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
MOTION TO EXPUNGE NOTICES OF PENDENCY OF ACTION AND FOR COURT COSTS
  AND SANCTIONS



            
 
Background
Plaintiffs Richard Meng
and Vivian Meng (jointly “Plaintiffs”) filed this action on June 21, 2019
against, inter alia, Defendant Leon Richard Mays, an individual (“Mays”)
and as Trustee of the 402 Randolph Trust. 

The operative Fourth
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) was filed by Plaintiffs on January 27, 2023. The FAC
asserts causes of action for (1) intentional misrepresentation, (2) negligence,
(3) fraudulent conveyance, (4) “withdrawn,” (5) violation of Business and Professions Code section 7160, (6) aiding
and abetting unlicensed contracting, (7) conversion, (8) unjust enrichment, (9)
rescission, (10) disgorgement under Business and
Professions Code section 7031, and (11) breach of fiduciary duty. 
In the FAC, Plaintiffs allege that “[t]his action arises out of a fraudulent scheme based on a
construction renovation project
perpetuated by Defendants MAYS and DANIELS, and through their companies,
MILLENNIUM CONCEPTS LLC and
MILLENNIUM CONCEPTS INVESTMENTS LLC., that defrauded Plaintiffs in excess of $3.5 million. From 2014 to 2019,
Defendants MAYS and DANIELS
repeatedly misrepresented to Plaintiffs with regards to their license,
qualification, status
and/or progress of the said construction project, and the construction fees
allegedly incurred, which
Plaintiffs materially relied upon and made an outrageous amount of payment to
Defendants.” (FAC, ¶ 1.) Plaintiffs
further allege that “DANIELS and MAYS misappropriated portion of Plaintiffs’
funds to purchase and/or to fulfill their mortgage repayment obligations for
their real properties located at: (1) 2160 Charmaine Dr, Upland, CA 91784; and
(2) 402 Randolph St, Pomona, CA 91768…Plaintiffs,
therefore, have a vested legal interest in the said real properties in light of
the misappropriation of Plaintiffs’ funds carried out as related to the title
ownership of these real properties by Defendant DANIELS and MAYS.” (FAC, ¶ 38.)
Mays, solely in his
capacity as Trustee of the 402 Randolph Trust (herein, “Defendant”)
indicates that on August 1, 2019, Plaintiffs
recorded a notice of lis pendens on property located at 402 Randolph Street, Pomona California 91768 (the
“Property”). (Mays Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. 3.) Defendant also states that on March 21,
2023, a second notice of lis pendens was recorded by Plaintiffs regarding the
Property. (Mays Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. 4.)  
Defendant now moves “for
an order expunging the two Notices of Pending Action (‘Lis Pendens’) filed and
recorded by Plaintiffs Richard Meng and Vivian Meng…in connection with this
action on the ground that Plaintiffs cannot establish the probable validity of
any real property claim as it relates to the property and improvements thereon
located at 402 Randolph Street, Pomona CA 91768…” Plaintiffs oppose. 
Evidentiary
Objections 
The Court rules on
Plaintiffs’ evidentiary objections as follows: 
Objection No. 1:
overruled
Objection No. 2:
overruled 
Objection No. 3:
overruled
Objection No. 4:
sustained
Objection No. 5:
sustained
            Objection
No. 6: sustained 
            Objection
No. 7: overruled
            Objection
No. 8: overruled 
            Objection
No. 9: overruled 
            Legal Standard
The authorization to
file a notice of lis pendens is found in section
405.20 of the Code of Civil Procedure. That statute provides in part: “A
party to an action who asserts a real property claim may record a notice of
pendency of action in which that real property claim is alleged. The
notice may be recorded in the office of the recorder of each county
in which all or part of the real property is situated.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 405.20.) “The whole idea of a notice of lis pendens is to
give constructive notice of the legal proceeding affecting title to a specific
piece of property.” ((Gale v. Superior Court (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 1388, 1396.)
“A court shall order a notice of lis pendens expunged if it
determines (1) that the pleading on which the notice is based does not contain
a real property claim (§ 405.31); (2) that the
claimant has not established, by a preponderance of the evidence, the probable
validity of a real property claim (§ 405.32); or
(3) that adequate relief can be secured by an undertaking. (§ 405.33.)…Unlike most motions, the party opposing a motion to expunge bears the
burden to show the existence of a real property claim….In considering whether
the burden has been met, the court engages in a demurrer-like analysis.”
((Shoker v. Superior Court (2022)
81 Cal.App.5th 271, 277 [internal quotations omitted].)
            Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 405.30, “[a]t any time
after notice of pendency of action has been recorded, any party, or any
nonparty with an interest in the real property affected thereby, may apply to
the court in which the action is pending to expunge the notice. However, a
person who is not a party to the action shall obtain leave to intervene from
the court at or before the time the party brings the motion to expunge the
notice. Evidence or declarations may be filed with the motion to expunge the
notice. The court may permit evidence to be received in the form of oral
testimony, and may make any orders it deems just to provide for discovery by
any party affected by a motion to expunge the notice. The claimant shall have
the burden of proof under Sections
405.31 and 405.32.” 
Discussion
As an initial matter, in
the opposition, Plaintiffs assert that “MAYS does not have the authority to
represent the Trust in this case, let alone filing the instant motion to
expunge notice of pendency of action. This is critical since Code Civ. Proc. Section 405.30 requires a leave to
intervene before filing any motion to expunge if the filing party is a
‘nonparty with an interest in the real property.’” (Opp’n at p. 6:25-28.) But Leon
Richard Mays “as Trustee of the 402 Randolph Trust” is a defendant named in the
FAC in this action. Code of Civil Procedure section 405.30 provides in pertinent part that “[a]t any
time after notice of pendency of action has been recorded, any party, or
any nonparty with an interest in the real property affected thereby, may apply
to the court in which the action is pending to expunge the notice. However, a
person who is not a party to the action shall obtain leave to intervene from
the court at or before the time the party brings the motion to expunge the
notice.” (Emphasis added.)  
 Defendant argues in the motion that, inter
alia, there is a “lack of a real property claim.” (Mot. at p. 8:8.) Defendant
cites to BGJ Associates
v. Superior Court (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 952, 967, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[a] lis pendens notice may be recorded in an action which has a ‘real
property claim,’ which is defined by statute as ‘the cause or causes of action
in a pleading which would, if meritorious, affect . . . title to, or the right
to possession of, specific real property.’ (§ 405.4.)
The statute provides no further definition of ‘affect . . . title to, or the
right to possession of,’ specific real property, nor has case law provided any
abstract definition. Case law has determined that certain types of actions
clearly do, or clearly do not, affect title or possession. At one extreme, ‘[a]
buyer’s action for specific performance of a real property purchase and
sale agreement is a classic example of an action in which a lis pendens is both
appropriate and necessary.’ At the other extreme, an action for money only, even if it relates in some way to specific
real property, will not support a lis pendens.”
(Internal citations omitted, emphasis in original.) Defendant notes that the BGJ Associates Court found as follows: 
 
“Therefore, in
approaching the constructive trust cases, the courts have ‘consistently
eschewed’ an approach which would ‘transform [lis pendens] into a
money-collection remedy without any of the protections of the attachment
statutes.’ ( Lewis v. Superior Court, supra, 30 Cal. App.
4th at p. 1864.) ‘Overbroad definition of ‘an action . . .
affecting the title or the right of possession of real property’ would invite
abuse of lis pendens.’ (Burger v. Superior Court, supra, 151 Cal.
App. 3d at p. 1018.) For such
reasons, we declared in Urez Corp. v. Superior Court,
supra, that lis pendens is not available in what ‘is essentially a fraud
action seeking money damages with additional allegations urged to support the
equitable remedies of a constructive trust or an equitable lien.’ (190 Cal. App. 3d at p. 1149, italics added; see
also Hunting World, Inc. v. Superior Court, supra, 22 Cal. App.
4th 67, 73-74 [lis pendens held proper in an action to set
aside a fraudulent conveyance; distinguishing cases in which ‘. . .
constructive trust or equitable lien causes of action were appended to
lawsuits centering on money damages’ (italics in original)].) In determining whether the claims in the
pleading affect title to or possession of specific real property the courts
have not interpreted ‘affect’ literally; they have looked instead to the
substance of the dispute.” ((Id. at pp. 969-970.)  
Defendant argues that here,
“[t]he substance of the underlying dispute in the Complaint in this case is the
recovery of money under various legal theories. The primary alleged basis for
this case is that Plaintiffs claim they overpaid for the services that the
Defendants provided. This is not a real property claim case and it does not
convert to a real property claim case simply by alleging that some of the funds
that Plaintiffs paid to Defendants went to pay a mortgage or acquire real
property.” (Mot. at p. 9:8-11.) 
Defendant cites to
paragraph 67 of the FAC (contained in the third
cause of action) which alleges that “DANIELS and MAYS misappropriated portion
of Plaintiffs’ funds to purchase and/or to fulfill their mortgage repayment
obligations for their real properties located at: (1) 2160 Charmaine Dr,
Upland, CA 91784; and (2) 402 Randolph St, Pomona, CA 91768. It is believed
that a portion of Plaintiffs’ funds were used to pay for home improvements and
HOA fees of the said real properties. During the relevant time period,
Defendant MAYS transferred the title of the 402 Randolph St, Pomona property to
a trust which names himself as the trustee, transfer of which was to make the
defendants judgment proof. Since February 2020, Defendants DANIELS and MAYS
repeatedly listed and actively looked to sell their Upland property, which
property was claimed to be an exempted asset during their bankruptcy
proceeding. Plaintiffs, therefore, have a vested legal interest in the said
real properties in light of the misappropriation of Plaintiffs’ funds carried
out as related to the title ownership of these real properties by Defendant
DANIELS and MAYS. The determination of Plaintiff’s legal interest in the (1)
2160 Charmaine Dr, Upland, CA 91784; and (2) 402 Randolph St, Pomona, CA 91768
will be resolved in the present litigation of this matter.” (FAC, ¶ 67.) Defendant
notes that Plaintiffs allege that they “seek the following reliefs: avoidance
of the transfer or obligation to the extent necessary to satisfy the
Plaintiffs’ claims; an attachment or other provisional remedy against the asset
transferred or its proceeds; an injunction against further disposition by the
debtor or a transferee, or both, of the asset transferred or its proceeds.”
(FAC, ¶ 71.) Defendant asserts that “[w]hat Plaintiffs are arguing for is
essentially the recovery of the money they allege was misappropriated and
applied to the Property.” (Mot. at p. 9:1-3.) 
Plaintiffs do not appear
to respond to or dispute the foregoing points in their opposition. Defendants assert
in the reply that, “Plaintiffs have failed to demonstrate to the Court how
their claims of misappropriation of funds are real property claims that justify
the recording and maintaining of a lis pendens pending trial in the case.
Moreover, Plaintiffs have failed to distinguish the case of BGJ Associates v. Superior Court (1999) 75 Cal. App. 4th
952…” (Reply at p. 2:9-13.) Indeed, Plaintiffs do not address the BGJ Associates case in their opposition. 
As set forth above, “[u]nlike most motions, the party opposing
a motion to expunge bears the burden to show the existence of a real property
claim.” ((Shoker v. Superior Court, supra, 81 Cal.App.5th at p.
277.) Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 405.30, “[t]he claimant shall have the burden of proof under Sections 405.31 and 405.32.” Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 405.31, “[i]n proceedings under this chapter, the court shall order the notice
expunged if the court finds that the pleading on which the notice is based does
not contain a real property claim. The court shall not order an undertaking to
be given as a condition of expunging the notice where the court finds the
pleading does not contain a real property claim.” Here, Plaintiffs do not
appear to argue that their third cause of action constitutes a “real property
claim” under Code of Civil Procedure section 405.4.[1]
Thus, the Court does not find that Plaintiffs have met their burden to show the
existence of a real property claim in the FAC. 

Lastly,
both parties seek sanctions. Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 405.38, “[t]he court shall direct that the party
prevailing on any motion under this chapter be awarded the reasonable
attorney’s fees and costs of making or opposing the motion unless the court
finds that the other party acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of attorney’s fees and costs unjust.” The Court finds that Plaintiffs acted with substantial
justification in presenting their position in the opposition and thus declines
to award sanctions against them. In addition, as the instant motion is granted,
the Court also denies Plaintiffs’ request for sanctions. 
Conclusion
For the foregoing
reasons, Defendant’s motion to expunge the lis pendens recorded against the Property on August 1, 2019
and March 21, 2023 is granted. 
Defendant is ordered
to provide notice of this ruling. 
 
DATED:  January 22, 2024                            ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


