 Case Number:  23SMCV01848    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  I The motion for fees is CONTINUED.  This is a UD case in which plaintiff
prevailed on summary judgment on the eve of trial.  While defendant did raise various affirmative
defenses, defendant did not bring any motions. 
The court sees from the docket that plaintiff had to move to compel
certain discovery, however.
The fees here are $145,696. 
That strikes the court as quite high. 
The court notes the following. 
First, the billing rates are quite high for a UD case.  Senior counsel billed at $995/hour.  Other counsel were at $545 or $445 per
hour.  That is a relatively high rate for
a relatively straightforward commercial real estate UD and the court would like
to have further back up material on those rates, including whether any court in
the last three years has used a rate lower than the ones advanced.  The court also notes that, while the bills
are provided, there is no evidence that plaintiff actually paid the bills.  While plaintiff is entitled to reasonable
fees even if plaintiff has not paid the bill, the court generally believes that
proof that a sophisticated client actually pays a bill is some evidence that
the bill was reasonable.  Most clients
are not in the habit of paying unreasonable bills and where a client has enough
knowledge to know a reasonable from an unreasonable one, the fact of payment
supports the reasonableness of the bill. 
But the converse may also be true. 
A client’s decision not to pay a bill that is due and owing might be
some evidence that the bill is unreasonable. 
The court will give plaintiff 15 court days to provide a declaration
establishing the amounts and dates of payment by the client as well as a
statement attesting as to whether the bills have been reduced or discounted in
any way.
On the other side of the coin, the court notes that
defendant alleged that plaintiff was acting with racial animus.  That is a very serious allegation and one
that ultimately had no evidentiary support. 
A party might well want to call out the big guns to defend against such
an attack.  A finding that the allegation
is true could be devastating on the plaintiff here, both personally and
professionally.  That warrants a higher
hourly rate than might otherwise be the case if this were a more routine
matter.
The hearing will reconvene in 25 court days at 9:00 am.   Plaintiff may file supplemental papers in 15
court days.