  Case Number:  21SMCV00085    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  I Plaintiff seeks to compel defendant’s attendance at a
deposition.  Plaintiff served proper
deposition notices, but defendant has not appeared.  However, on November 24, 2023, shortly before
the deposition was scheduled, defendant served objections and some
documents.  Plaintiff tried to meet and
confer, but defendants did not respond. 
Plaintiff moves to compel; defendant do not oppose.
The court has reviewed the requests for documents.  Request 25 is improper.  It is premature for defendants to need to
disclose their trial exhibit list and the question therefore invades the work
product protection.  No response to that
request is required.  As to requests
26-27, 30-34, and 37-38, defendants provided objection-only responses.  There is good cause for those requests and
the objections are unsubstantiated. 
Therefore the court will GRANT the motion as to these requests.  The same is essentially true of request 28,
and the motion is GRANTED as to that request as well.  “Equally available” does not suffice in this
context.  Requests 35 and 36 essentially
seek substantiation of defendants’ position that they were adversely affected
by COVID.  The response states that
defendants’ have no documents in their possession “at this time.”  That is not sufficient.  If defendants do not have possession, custody,
or control of the documents, they may so state.  But they must also state whether that is because
the documents never existed, the documents are now in the possession, custody,
or control of a third party (and identifying information for that party), or
whether the documents did exist at one time but have been lost or destroyed.  That must be done.  This is required by CCP section
2031.230.  RFP 36 seeks the 2020 year-end
pay stub from UCLA.  It states that if
the stub is not available, other documents may be produced instead that have
the same information.  The response is a
refusal because the information is available to the public.  The court doubts that this is true.  Even if defendant’s salary is a matter of
public record, the pay stub has more information than just the salary.  And that is not a valid objection
anyway. 
As to the deposition date, defendants may provide up to
three dates not less than one week from today and not more than three weeks
from today that they (or either of them) will be unavailable for
deposition.  Those dates will be given
within 24 hours.  Plaintiff may, within
24 hours after receipt of defendants’ black out dates, notice defendants’
deposition for any dates not less than one week from today and not more than
three weeks from today other than the black out dates.  Once started, each deposition will go from
day to day, weekends and holidays excepted, until complete.
The court notes, though, that this case seems to be being
over pled and over litigated.  Even to
the extent fees are recoverable, they must be reasonable and necessary.  The court makes no further comment.
Plaintiff seeks sanctions. 
The court has reviewed the declaration and supplemental declaration and
will impose sanctions against Lincoln Chayes in the amount of $6790.93, payable
to plaintiff’s counsel within 30 days. 
There is no excuse for the failure to appear for deposition.  The court has seen the supplemental
declaration, but placing the extra fee in reply essentially denies defendants
the opportunity to object to the additional amount.  An estimate should have been given in the
moving papers.