 Case Number:  24STCV00218    Hearing Date:   December 2, 2024    Dept:  29 Knox
v. Digital Cinema Collective
24STCV00218
Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to File Amended Complaint
 
Tentative
 
The
motion is granted.
 
Background
 
On January 4, 2024, Plaintiff Landon Knox (“Plaintiff”) filed
a complaint against Defendants Digital Cinema Collective, Inc., Tyler Martinez
(“Defendants”), and Does 1 through 50, asserting a cause of action for motor vehicle
negligence arising out of an alleged accident on May 31, 2022, at or near the
intersection of West Jefferson Boulevard and La Cienega Place in Los Angeles. 
 
On June 13, 2024,
Defendants filed an answer and a cross-complaint against Roes 1 through 20.
 
On September 25,
2024, Plaintiff’s counsel filed a substitution of attorney.
 
On October 25,
2024, Plaintiff filed this motion for leave to file a First Amended
Complaint.  Defendants filed an opposition on October 30, and Plaintiff
filed a reply on November 19. 
 
Legal Standard
 
California Code
of Civil Procedure section¿473, subdivision¿(a)(1) provides, in relevant part:
“The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper,
allow a party¿to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the
name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a
mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for
answer or demurrer.¿ The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to
the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”¿ 
 
“This discretion
should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial policy
favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same lawsuit.”¿¿(Kittredge
Sports Co. v. Superior Court¿(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.)¿
Ordinarily, the court will not consider the validity of the proposed amended
pleading in ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer or motion
to strike are premature.¿ The court, however, does have discretion to deny
leave to amend where a proposed amendment fails to state a valid cause of
action as a matter of law and the defect cannot be cured by further
amendment.¿¿(See¿California Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court¿(1985)
173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281¿(overruled on other grounds by¿Kransco¿v. American
Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co.¿(2000) 23 Cal.4th 390).)¿ 
“ ‘[I]t is an abuse of discretion
to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was not misled or prejudiced by
the amendment.’ (Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739,
759-761.) Prejudice exists where the amendment would require delaying the
trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added costs of preparation
such as an increased burden of discovery. (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc.
(1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.) 
Under¿California
Rules of Court¿Rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading shall (1) include a
copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially
numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state
what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any,
and where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are
located; and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be added to the
previous pleading, if any,¿and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located.¿ 
 
Under¿California
Rule of Court¿Rule 3.1324(b), a separate declaration must accompany the motion
and must specify (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is
necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations
were discovered; and (4)¿the reasons why the request for amendment was not made
earlier.¿ 
 
Discussion
Plaintiff moves to amend
the complaint to add a cause of action for general negligence, arguing that Plaintiff’s
prior counsel inadvertently alleged only a cause of action for motor vehicle negligence.  The proposed new cause of action plainly
arises out of the same set of facts described in the complaint.  Plaintiff argues that, as a result, allowing
Plaintiff to add a cause of action for general negligence will not prejudice
Defendants. Plaintiff also states that the failure to plead a cause of action
for general negligence was discovered shortly after new counsel for Plaintiff
substituted in to the case.  (Wong Decl.,
¶¶ 4-6.) 
The Court finds
that Plaintiff has complied with all substantive and procedural requirements
for the motion for leave to amend.  The
Court further finds Defendants will not be prejudiced by the amendment in this
case. Trial is set for July 3, 2025. Therefore, Defendants have sufficient time
to conduct any discovery in relation to the cause of action for general negligence
in preparing for trial. 
 
Defendants also argue
that the statute of limitations on a general negligence cause of action has
run, but the Court will not, on a motion for leave to amend, adjudicate an
affirmative defense to the proposed new cause of action or determine whether
the relation back doctrine applies. 
 
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend.
 
The Court GRANTS
Plaintiff leave to file the First Amended Complaint attached to the moving
papers within 7 days of the hearing on this motion.
 
Moving party is
ordered to give notice.