 Case Number:  22STCV28399    Hearing Date:   December 2, 2024    Dept:  29 Landis v. Topanga Oil
22STCV28399
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Inspection of Defendant’s Premises
Tentative
The motion is granted.
The request for sanctions is granted in
part.
Background
On August
31, 2022, Plaintiff Jacqueline Landis (“Plaintiff”) filed the complaint in this
action against Defendant Topanga Oil, Inc (“Defendant”) and Does 1 through
25.  Plaintiffs asserts causes of action
for premises liability and negligence arising out of an incident in which,
Plaintiff alleges, she slipped, fell, and was seriously injured.
Defendant
filed an answer on October 6, 2022.
As set
forth in some detail in the Court’s Minute Order dated September 23, 2024,
Plaintiff served a demand for inspection on May 1, 2024, setting the date of the inspection for May 24.  Defendant responded the same day with a
three-sentence email stating that Defendant would not agree to the inspection. On
May 21, Plaintiff sent an email to Defendant stating: “This email will serve as
confirmation that the inspection of the premises has been taken off the
calendar.” 
Plaintiff filed a motion to compel.  On September 23, 2024, the Court heard and denied
the motion, in part because Plaintiff had taken the inspection off calendar.
On
September 25, 2024, Plaintiff served a new demand for inspection. (De Soto
Decl., ¶ 3 & Exh. A.)  Defendant
served objections on September 30.  (Id.,
¶ 4 & Exh. B.)  The parties met and
conferred but were unable to resolve the dispute.  (Id., ¶ 5 & Exh. C.)
Plaintiff
filed this motion to compel on October 29, 2024.  Plaintiff also seeks sanctions.  Defendant filed an opposition on November 15,
and Plaintiff filed a reply on November 21.
Legal Standard
 
“Any party may obtain discovery … by inspecting …
documents, tangible things, land or other property … in the possession,
custody, or control of any other party to the action. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.010, subd. (a).) “A party may demand that any other party allow the party
making the demand, or someone acting on the demanding party’s behalf, to enter
on any land or other property that is in the possession, custody, or control of
the party on whom the demand is made, and to inspect and to measure, survey, photograph,
test, or sample the land or other property, or any designated object or
operation on it.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.010, subd. (d).)
The Civil Discovery Act contemplates three separate
types of motions with regard to requests for production or inspection.
First, a party must respond to a request
for inspection or production within 30 days after service. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.260, subd.(a).) If a party does not provide a timely written response, the
requesting party may move for an order under Code of Civil Procedure section
2031.300 compelling an initial response to the request. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300,
subd. (b).) There is no time limit for a motion to compel initial responses,
and no meet and confer efforts are required. (See id., § 2031.300; Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 390, 411.) Nor must a separate statement be filed. (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1345(b)(1).)  In addition,
a party who fails to provide a timely response generally waives all
objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.300, subd. (a).) 
Second, under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2031.310, when a
response to a demand for inspection or production is received, “the demanding
party may move for an order compelling further response to the demand if the
demanding party deems that any of the following apply: (1) A statement of
compliance with the demand is incomplete. 
(2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete,
or evasive.  (3) An objection in the
response is without merit or too general.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).)
Notice of a motion to compel
further responses must be given “within 45 days of the service of the verified
response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific
later date to which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed
in writing.” (Id., subd. (c).)
A
motion to compel further responses must set forth specific facts showing good
cause for the discovery and must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1)-(3); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
Third, and finally, under Code of Civil Procedure
section 2031.320, when a party serves a response stating that it will comply
with a request for an inspection or production, but then fails to permit the
inspection or make the production, “the demanding party may move for an order
compelling compliance.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.320, subd. (a).)  
Discussion
 
Plaintiff has shown good cause for the requested
inspection.  Plaintiff seeks to conduct
an inspection of the location at which Plaintiff allegedly slipped, fell, and
was injured.  (De Soto Decl., ¶ 6.)  Plaintiff did conduct a pre-litigation
inspection of Defendant’s premises, but the inspectors did not inspect or take
measurements of the actual area at which the fall occurred.  (Id., ¶ 2.)
 
In the opposition, Defendant raises four objections to
the inspection and/or the motion to compel.
 
First, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s motion was not
brought within 45 days of the objection served on May 1, 2024.  (Opp. at pp. 3-4.)  But a short email does not constitute an objection
under the Code of Civil Procedure and, in any event, Plaintiff withdrew the
initial inspection demand.  The motion is
timely.
 
Second, Defendant argues that Plaintiff did not
adequately meet and confer.  (Opp. at p. 4.)  The declaration of Plaintiff’s counsel shows
the opposite.  (De
Soto Decl., ¶ 5 & Exh. C.)  The meet
and confer communication was short, even terse, but that is because (at least
in significant part) Defendant took a hard line.  Further discussion, in this context, would
have been futile, and the law does not require futile acts.
 
Third,
Defendant argues that Plaintiff concedes that the motion is moot.  (Opp. at p. 4.)  That is not quite correct.  What Plaintiff argues is that it does not
need a court order to conduct an inspection, under certain circumstances, of
private property that is open to the public. 
The Court will not make any further comment on this issue other than to
note two things: (1) the case law says what the case law says; and (2) whatever
else may be the case, Plaintiff is seeking a court order.  The motion is not moot.
 
Fourth,
Defendant argues that Plaintiff has not shown good cause for a second
inspection.  (Opp. at pp. 4-5.)  But, as noted above, Plaintiff has shown good
cause with a declaration supported by specific facts.  (De Soto Decl., ¶¶ 2, 6 & Exh. A.) 
 
Accordingly, the Court concludes that Defendant’s
objections to the inspection demand are without merit.  The motion to compel a further response,
without objection, is granted.
 
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions
is granted in part.  Defendant has
unsuccessfully opposed a motion to compel a further response to an inspection
demand; in opposing the motion, Defendant has not acted with substantial justification,
and the imposition of sanctions would not be unjust.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd.
(h).)
 
The
Court sets sanctions in the amount $1,410, calculated based on three hours of
attorney time, multiplied by counsel’s reasonable billing rate of $450 per hour,
plus a $60 filing fee.  (See De Soto
Decl., ¶ 7.)
 

Conclusion 
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s
motion to compel.
 
The Court ORDERS Defendant to
provide a further response to Plaintiff’s inspection demand, without objection,
and stating that the inspection will be allowed, within 10 days of notice.  
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions in part.
 
The Court ORDERS Defendant,
counsel Tejas Patel, and counsel Ford, Walker, Haggerty & Behar, jointly
and severally, to pay monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,410 under the
Civil Discovery Act to Plaintiff (through counsel) within 30 days of notice.
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice. 