 Case Number:  23STCV26677    Hearing Date:   February 26, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JOHN NICOLAS
  MARSIC, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
JMG INVESTMENTS, INC. dba HARMONY PLACE,
  a California corporation; and DOES 1 through 20, inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV26677
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration
 
Date: February 26, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
JMG Investments, Inc. dba Harmony Place
RESPONDING PARTY: N/A
- Unopposed
            The Court has considered the moving
papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             John Marsic (Plaintiff) was hired by his now
former employer, JMG Investments, Inc. dba Harmony Place (Defendant) on
September 1, 2016 to work as a Resident Advisor Supervisor. (Complaint, ¶ 16.)
Defendant is a company that operates a residential facility for substance abuse
disorder, treatment, and rehabilitation. 
 
            Around the fall of 2019, Plaintiff
suffered a heart attack at work. (Id.at ¶ 18.) Then, in February of
2022, Plaintiff was injured when he fell on ice while working. (Id. at ¶
19.) Although this slip and fall caused Plaintiff to miss two days of work, he
returned thereafter. In April of 2022, Plaintiff began suffering from dizziness
and high blood pressure, which limited Plaintiff’s ability to perform at work.
(Id. at ¶ 20.) After consulting with his medical provider the following
September, Plaintiff’s doctor provided Plaintiff with a letter to Defendant
regarding medical leave, which was approved. (Id. at ¶ 21.) 
 
            Plaintiff remained in contact with
Defendant regarding his medical conditions. After discussions around returning
to work in December of 2022, Plaintiff received a letter terminating his
employment dated December 20, 2022. (Id. at ¶ 22.) Plaintiff
subsequently filed his Complaint on 
October 30, 2023.
 
            The Complaint alleges nine causes of
action including violations of the Fair Employment and Housing Act (FEHA)
against Defendant. The motion before the Court is Defendant’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration (Motion). The Motion was filed on January 2, 2024, and is
unopposed. 
             
DISCUSSION
Legal Standard - 
            Under both the Federal Arbitration
Act and California law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and
enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding a
contract. (Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166
Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) The party moving to compel arbitration must establish
the existence of a written arbitration agreement between the parties. (Code of
Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) This is usually done by presenting a copy of the signed,
written agreement to the court. “A petition to compel arbitration or to stay
proceedings pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 1281.2 and 1281.4 must
state, in addition to other required allegations, the provisions of the written
agreement and the paragraph that provides for arbitration. The provisions must
be stated verbatim, or a copy must be physically or electronically attached to
the petition and incorporated by reference.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1330.) 
 
            The moving party must also establish
the other party’s refusal to arbitrate the controversy. (Code of Civ. Proc. §
1281.2.) The filing of a lawsuit against the moving party for a controversy
clearly within the scope of the arbitration agreement affirmatively establishes
the other party’s refusal to arbitrate the controversy. (Hyundai Amco
America, Inc. v. S3H, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 572, 577.)
 
A Valid Arbitration Agreement Exists – 
            Here, Defendant files a signed copy
of the arbitration agreement (the agreement) concurrently with their Motion.
(Declaration of Lena Amitin, Exh. B.) The agreement is signed with Plaintiff’s
first and last name, and dated December 5, 2018.  A clear heading within the agreement is titled
“Agreement for Binding Arbitration” just before the paragraph detailing the
agreement, what the agreement covers, and that the signer waives their right to
a trial by jury. (Id.) 
 
            The agreement states that the signer
agrees to “submit and settle any dispute, controversy, or claim arising out of
or relating to my employment relationship with [Defendant] to arbitration…” The
termination of Plaintiff’s employment clearly arises out of Plaintiff’s
employment relationship with Defendant. Additionally, there is no indication of
any procedural nor substantive unconscionability within the agreement. 
 
The Opposing Party Refuses to Arbitrate - 
            Defendant has also established that
that opposing party refuses to arbitrate through: (1) Plaintiff’s filing of the
Complaint on October 30, 2023 that commenced this action and (2) through the
Declaration of Pauline L. Duong (Duong Decl.) which states that after
conferring with Plaintiff’s counsel, Plaintiff would not stipulate to
arbitration. (Duong Decl., ¶ 5.)  
 
CONCLUSION
            As Defendant has established the
existence of a valid arbitration agreement and has established Plaintiff’s
refusal to arbitrate, the Motion to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED.
 
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 26th day of February, 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



