  Case Number:  23STCV06136    Hearing Date:   February 26, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 




JINHEE KIM, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
B&K
  ENTERPRISE, INC., et al., 
 
                        Defendants.


 


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV06136
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF JINHEE KIM’S MOTION TO STRIKE DEFENDANT BRANDON KIM’S
  ENTIRE CROSS-COMPLAINT
 
Date:  February 26, 2023
Time:
  8:30 a.m.
Dept.
  56




 
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff Jinhee Kim
 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant Brandon Kim
            
            The Court
has considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
This action arises out of a sublease arrangement. The
operative second amended complaint (the “SAC”)
alleges: (1) breach of oral agreement; (2) wrongful retention of security
deposit under Civil Code section 1950, subdivision (c); (3) money had and
received; (4) breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment; and (5) unfair
competition under Business and Professions Code section 17200. 
In 2019, Plaintiff Jinhee Kim and Defendants B&K
Enterprise, Inc., Soojin Kelly Kim, and Brandon Kim entered into an oral
agreement (the “Sublease Agreement”) for Plaintiff to
sublet a second-floor commercial space (the “Premises”)
from Defendants. (SAC
¶¶ 8, 18.) Under the Sublease
Agreement, Plaintiff agreed to make monthly rent payments of $40,000 for the
duration of Defendants’ master
tenancy, during which time Plaintiff would operate a karaoke business and
utilize Defendants’ services
and infrastructure. (See id.) 
 
Plaintiff took possession of the Premises in 2019. (SAC ¶ 19.)
Plaintiff and Defendants performed under the Sublease Agreement for about three
years. (SAC ¶ 20.) On or about February 22, 2023, however, Brandon Kim
presented Plaintiff with a new written sublease agreement that indicated that
the Premises would be sublet to new tenants, and demanded that Plaintiff vacate
the Premises within seven days. (See SAC ¶¶ 20-21.) On information and belief,
the new subtenants pay a larger amount in monthly rent, which motivated
Defendants to force Plaintiff to vacate the Premises. (See SAC ¶¶ 20, 46.)
 
On December 12, 2023, the Court sustained a demurrer to the
fifth cause of action. 
 
On December 26, 2023, Brandon Kim filed a cross-complaint
against Plaintiff and Does 1-10 for 1) breach of contract, 2) common count-open
book account, and 3) common count-account stated, seeking damages in the amount
of not less than $422,500, interest according to proof, and attorney’s fees
according to proof, as well as such other and further relief as the court deems
proper. 
According to the cross-complaint, Plaintiff and Brandon Kim
entered into a contract through Plaintiff’s business whereby Plaintiff would
manage a karaoke lounge with Brandon Kim on the second floor of a building at
3855 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles, CA 90010. Jinhee would greet patrons, assign
them to individual karaoke rooms, coordinate food orders, and charge patrons by
the hour for their use of their individual karaoke rooms. At the end of each
month, Plaintiff was to pay Brandon Kim $40,000 from the total revenue
collected and keep the remainder.
 
On January 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to
strike the entire pleading or, in the alternative strike the attorneys’ fees
claim in paragraph 10 on page 2 and paragraphs CC-3 on page 4 and 5 of the
cross-complaint. 
 
JUDICIAL
NOTICE
            Plaintiff requests the Court take
judicial notice of Brandon Kim’s answer to the second amended complaint, filed
on December 22, 2023, and Brandon Kim’s cross-complaint, filed on December 26,
2023.
 
            The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request
for judicial notice, without accepting the truth of the matters set forth
therein. 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
The meet and confer requirement has been met. (Hyong C. Kim
Decl., paragraphs 4 and 5.) 
LEGAL
STANDARD
            Under California Code of Civil
Procedure (“CCP”) section 436, a motion to strike either: (1) strikes any
irrelevant, false or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strikes
any pleading or part thereof not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
this state, a court rule or order of court. (CCP § 436, subds. (a)-(b).)
 
MOTION
TO STRIKE ANALYSIS
            Code Civ. Proc. §428.50 provides as
follows: 
 (a) A party shall file a cross-complaint against any of
the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or her
before or at the same time as the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint.  
(b) Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any time
before the court has set a date for trial. 
(c) A party shall obtain leave of court
to file any cross-complaint except one filed within the time specified in
subdivision (a) or (b). Leave may be granted in the interest of justice at any
time during the course of the action. 
 
It is undisputed that Defendants filed their answer to
Plaintiff's SAC on December 22, 2023. The parties dispute, however, when the
cross-complaint was filed. Plaintiff contends that four days after the answer was filed,
Brandon Kim filed the cross-complaint without obtaining  leave of Court. Therefore, Plaintiff contends
that the cross-complaint should have been filed on or before December 22, 2023.

 
In opposition, Brandon Kim contends that he submitted the
cross-complaint for e-filing on December 22, 2023, the same day the answer to
the SAC was filed. (Porto Decl., Ex. A.) Furthermore, according to the
transaction details for e-service of the cross-complaint on December 22, 2023,
Plaintiff’s counsel received and viewed the cross-complaint on December 22, 2023. (Porto
Decl., Ex. B.) On December 26, 2023, however, Brandon Kim’s counsel received a
notice of e-filing rejection of the cross-complaint from One Legal, stating: “Reject
Reason Other. Error in pleading. Party names written on Item #1 does not match
party caption. Item #1 has Brandon Kim, but party caption for
cross-complainant/plaintiff is Jinhee Kim, an individual. Do not use ‘et
al.’"(Porto Decl.,
Ex. C.) Later that day, Brandon Kim
fixed those deficiencies and resubmitted the cross-complaint for e-filing, and
this time the cross-complaint was accepted. (Porto Decl., para. 11.) 
 
Regardless of the reason for the delay in e-filing, Brandon
Kim does not dispute that the cross-complaint was e-filed four days after the
answer to the SAC was filed. Therefore, as this violates CCP § 428.50(c)’s
requirement to obtain leave from the court, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion
to strike in its entirety, without prejudice to Brandon Kim’s seeking leave to
file his Cross-Complaint by motion. 
 
Plaintiff to give notice.
 


 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
          Dated this 26th day of February 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J. Fujie
Judge of the Superior Court



