 Case Number:  BC649353    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




cep america-california, f/k/a CALIFORNIA EMERGENCY PHYSICIANS MEDICAL
   GROUP, d/b/a CEP AMERICA

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
HERITAGE PROVIDER NETWORK,
   INC.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


BC649353




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


November
   30, 2023




 


 




Time:





   8:30 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
 
order to show cause re: whether any of
  plaintiff’s causes of action or defendants’ affirmative defenses in phase Ii
  of bifurcated trial are to be tried by the jury or the court
 



 
Order to Show Cause re: Whether any of Plaintiff’s Causes of Action or
Defendants’ Affirmative Defenses in Phase II of Bifurcated Trial are to be
Tried by the Jury or the Court
On June 7, 2019, the court entered, pursuant to the stipulation of
plaintiff CEP America-California, d/b/a Vituity (“Plaintiff”) and defendants
Heritage Provider Network, Inc., Regal Medical Group, Inc., Lakeside Medical
Group, Inc., Oasis Independent Medical Associates, Inc., Desert Medical Group,
Inc., Higher Desert Medical Corporation, A Medical Group, Affiliated Doctors of
Orange County Medical Group, Bakersfield Family Medical Group, Inc.,[1]
Sierra Medical Group, Inc., and Coastal Communities Medical Group, Inc.
(“Defendants”), an order bifurcating the trial in this action into two
phases.  Phase I was limited to the issue
of the reasonable value of the health care services provided by Plaintiff to
Defendants.  (June 7, 2019 Order,
¶ 1.)  Upon the ruling in the Phase
I Trial, the parties were to report back to the court as to whether they agreed
on the damages calculation, whether they agreed to settle the case, and if they
were unable to agree to the damages calculation, the method by which the
parties wish to resolve the remaining disputes. 
On April 10, 2023, the jury returned the Verdict Form to the court,
finding that the reasonable value of the services provided by Plaintiff’s
doctors on the claims at issue is $452.00 per claim.  Thereafter, on August 22, 2023, the parties
submitted a “Joint Report Regarding Phase II,” as to the issues to be decided
in Phase II.  Plaintiff asserted that
Phase II will address the following: (1) Plaintiff’s third cause of action
requesting declaratory relief, and (2) Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action for
unfair business practices, including its request for injunctive relief,
calculation of damages, and prejudgment interest.  (Aug. 22, 2023, Joint Report, p. 3:2-8.)  Defendants asserted that the following
factors are relevant to those issues: (1) whether the patient and/or services
at issue were Defendants’ financial responsibility; (2) whether the patients
had active insurance or were assigned to Defendants when services were
rendered; (3) whether the services were rendered as billed; (4) Defendants’
third affirmative defense of unclean hands, and whether that bars recovery on
any or all patient claims; (5) Defendants’ entitlement to offsets;  (6) whether Defendants properly paid certain
claims; and (7) Defendants’ 46th affirmative defense for illegality, i.e.,
whether some or all of the patient claims at issue are barred.  (Aug. 22, 2023 Joint Report, p. 2:8-16.)  
The parties dispute whether these issues should be resolved by the
court or a jury. 
First, the court finds that Defendants’ affirmative defense of unclean
hands shall be tried by the court.  (Aug.
29, 2023 Joint Report, p. 3:12-13 [stating that an issue in Phase II is whether
Defendants’ third affirmative defense for unclean hands bars recovery on all or
some patient claims].) 
“As a general matter . . ., the California Constitution affords a
right to a jury trial in common law actions at law that were triable by a jury
in 1850, but not to suits in equity that were not triable by a jury at that
time.”  (LaFace v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2022)
75 Cal.App.5th 388, 395.)  “In making
this evaluation [courts] look to the gist of the action: whether the nature of
the rights involved and the facts of the particular case show that it is legal
and therefore cognizable at law.”  (Ibid.)  “‘Complications arise when
legal and equitable issues (causes of action, requested remedies, or defenses)
are asserted in a single lawsuit.’ 
[Citation.]  In that situation,
‘The lawsuit is rarely treated as a single unit for purposes of determining the
right to a jury trial.  [Citations.]  In most instances, separate equitable and
legal issues are “kept distinct and separate,” with legal issues triable by a
jury and equitable issues triable by the court.’”  (Judicial
Council of California v. Jacobs Facilities, Inc. (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 882, 915 [internal citation omitted].) 
Defendants do not dispute
that they are pursuing equitable defenses, and the court agrees that the
defense of unclean hands is equitable in nature.  (Opp., p. 2:14; Kendall-Jackson Winery, Ltd. v. Superior Court (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 970, 978; Padideh v. Moradi (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 418, 425 [doctrine of
unclean hands “ ‘is an equitable rationale for refusing a plaintiff relief
where principles of fairness dictate that the plaintiff should not recover,
regardless of the merits of [their] claim’”].) 
However, Defendants contend that the issues concerning the applicability
of its defense of unclean hands should be submitted to a jury because the gist
of Plaintiff’s action is for quantum meruit, which is a legal, and not
equitable, claim.  (Chodos v. Borman (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 76, 97 [“a claim for quantum meruit is
considered an action at law, not in equity”].) 
“When equitable defenses are
interposed to a legal cause of action, the ‘proper rule’ is for the court to
hear and dispose of the equitable defenses first, before submitting the legal
claim to a jury.”  (Judicial Council of California, supra, 239 Cal.App.4th at p. 915.)  But “the trial court has discretion whether to
submit an equitable defense to the jury[,]” and the exercise of that discretion
may be proper if the theories in support of an equitable defense are
intertwined with the legal causes of action.   (Unilogic, Inc. v. Burroughs Corp.
(1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 612, 622, 623.) 
The court finds that Defendants have not shown that the issues
relating to their equitable defense of unclean hands are so “intertwined with”
Plaintiff’s remaining legal causes of action that the court should exercise its
discretion to submit those issues to the jury. 
(Unilogic, Inc., supra, 10 Cal.App.4th at p. 623.)  Thus, the court finds that it is proper to
hear and dispose of Defendants’ affirmative defense of unclean hands first and
by a bench trial.  (Judicial Council of California, supra, 239 Cal.App.4th at p. 915.) 
Second, the court finds that Defendants’ affirmative defense of illegality
shall be tried by the court.  (Aug. 29,
2023 Joint Report, p. 3:15-16 [stating that an issue in Phase II is whether
Defendants’ 46th affirmative defense of illegality bars recovery on all or some
patient claims].)  
This defense, which is based on an alleged violation of Penal Code
section 550, also appears to be equitable in nature.  (State ex rel. Rapier v. Encino Hospital
Medical Center (2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 811, 837 [the “gist” of a cause of
action brought pursuant to Insurance Frauds Prevention Act, which subjects a
person who violates of Penal Code section 550 to penalties and permits the
granting of other equitable relief “is equitable”]; Ins. Code, § 1871.7,
subd. (b); First Amended Answer, p. 10, ¶ 48.)  Defendants did not directly address this
defense in their brief, and thus have not shown that the issues to be presented
in support of their illegality defense are so intertwined with the issues to be
decided in Phase II that it should be submitted to a jury.  The court therefore finds that it is proper
to hear and dispose of Defendants’ illegality defense first and by a bench
trial.  (Judicial Council of California, supra, 239 Cal.App.4th at p. 915.) 
Third, the court finds
that Defendants’ affirmative defense of setoff/offset shall be tried by the
court because (1) “[t]he affirmative defense of setoff is equitable in nature
[citation] and so would not ordinarily be decided by the jury which decides the
amount of damages[,]” and    (2)
Defendants have not shown that the issues regarding this affirmative defense
are so intertwined with the remaining issues to be decided in Phase II that the
court should exercise its discretion to allow it to be decided by a jury.  (Aug. 29, 2023 Joint Report, p. 3:13-14
[stating that an issue in Phase II is whether Defendants are entitled to any
offsets]; Los Angeles Unified School District v. Torres Construction Corp. (2020)
57 Cal.App.5th 480, 500 [internal citation omitted].) 
Fourth, the court notes that Plaintiff stated, in the parties’ joint
report, that Phase II will also address Plaintiff’s third cause of action for
declaratory relief and fourth cause of action for violation of unfair business
practices in violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200.  The parties did not address these remaining
causes of action in their papers. 
However, the court has determined that these causes of action are in
equity and therefore shall be tried by the court.  (Artus v. Gramercy Towers Condominium
Assn. (2018) 19 Cal.App.5th 923, 930 [“declaratory relief is an equitable
remedy and need not be awarded if the circumstances do not warrant”]; Nationwide
Biweekly Administration, Inc. v. Superior Court of Alameda County (2020) 9
Cal.5th 279, 334 [“in causes of action under the UCL . . . seeking injunctive
relief and civil penalties, the gist of the actions is equitable, and there is
no right to a jury trial in such actions under California law either as a
statutory or constitutional matter”].)  
Finally, the remaining issues in dispute regarding Plaintiff’s first
cause of action for breach of implied contract/quantum meruit and second cause
of action for common counts shall be tried to a jury after the court completes
the non-jury trial on the equitable claims and defenses discussed above.  (Chodos, supra, 227 Cal.App.4th
at p. 97 [quantum meruit is a legal claim]; Rubinstein v. Fakheri (2020)
49 Cal.App.5th 797, 809 [common count claim “is legal in nature”].) 
The court orders plaintiff CEP America-California, d/b/a Vituity to
give notice of this ruling.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  November 30, 2023
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


