 Case Number:  23STCV22733    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  11 Rojas (23STCV22733)
 
Tentative Ruling Re: Motion to Compel Arbitration
 
Date:                           2/29/24
 
Time:                          10:30
am
 
Moving Party:           BHA Hospitality LLC (“Defendant” or
“BHA”)
 
Opposing Party:        Armando Rojas (“Plaintiff”)
 
Department:              11        
 
Judge:                        David
S. Cunningham III
________________________________________________________________________
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant’s objections to the declarations of Plaintiff, Alberto Frias,
Edgar Pina, and Gilberto Flores are sustained.
 
Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration is granted.
 
The class claims are stricken.
 
The Court severs the negotiation and mediation prerequisites.
 
The case is stayed pending completion of the arbitration.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a putative wage-and-hour
class action.
 
Plaintiff is a former
employee.  He alleges that BHA subjected
him and other current and former employees to numerous wage-and-hour
violations.
 
Here, BHA moves to compel
arbitration of Plaintiff’s individual claims.
 
DISCUSSION
 
Declarations
 
In support of his opposition,
Plaintiff submitted his own declaration and three declarations from putative
class members.  All four declarations are
written in Spanish and include English versions, which were translated by an
alleged translator named Karen Arellano.
 
Defendant objects to the
declarations, asserting that Plaintiff fails to establish that Arellano is
certified.  (See Reply, pp. 2-3 [claiming
Arellano is “a legal assistant at Plaintiff’s counsel’s law firm”].)
 
The Court agrees.  Rule of Court 3.1110(g) requires “[e]xhibits
written in a foreign language [to] be accompanied by an English translation,
certified under oath by a qualified interpreter.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1110, subd.
(g).)  Arellano declares:
 
I, Karen Arellano,
translated the above declaration[s] from the original English to Spanish, on
February 14, 2024. I am proficient in English and Spanish. I have been
speaking, reading, and writing English since 2000; and I have been speaking,
reading, and writing Spanish since 2000. I hereby certify that the translation
is true and accurate.
 
(Plaintiff Decl., p. 5; see also
Frias Decl., p. 3 [same]; Pina Decl., p. 3 [same]; Flores Decl., p. 3
[same].)  The statement does not
demonstrate that Arellano is certified/registered in California or that she
ever received education or training in translating Spanish, so the declarations
are inadmissible. 
 
Existence and Assent
 
“[W]hen
a petition to compel arbitration is filed and accompanied by prima facie
evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the controversy, the court itself must determine whether the agreement exists
and, if any defense to its enforcement is raised, whether it is enforceable.”  (Rosenthal v. Great Western Financial
Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) 
 
“Under ‘both federal and state law, the threshold
question . . . is whether there is an agreement to arbitrate.’”  (Cruise v. Kroger Co. (2015) 233
Cal.App.4th 390, 396, emphasis in original.)
 
The
burden of proof rests with the petitioner. 
(See Rosenthal, supra, 14 Cal.4th at 413 [requiring the
petitioner to prove the existence of the agreement “by a preponderance of the
evidence”].)  To meet the burden, “the provisions of the written
agreement and the paragraph that provides for arbitration . . . must be stated
verbatim or a copy must be physically or electronically attached to the
petition and incorporated by reference.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330; see also Condee v. Longwood
Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218 [same].)
 
“Competent
evidence is required to establish both the existence of the arbitration
agreement and any ground for denial.” 
(Knight, et al., Cal. Practice Guide: Alternative Dispute Resolution
(The Rutter Group December 2023 Update) ¶ 5:321.)  “The verified petition (and attached copy of
the agreement) normally proves the existence of the arbitration agreement.  Affidavits or declarations may be necessary
when factual issues are tendered.”  
(Ibid.)
 
Defendant’s
arbitration agreement is attached to the declaration of Heather Salazar,
Defendant’s human resources manager, at Exhibit A.  The agreement states:
 
DISPUTE
RESOLUTION PROCEDURE & MUTUAL BINDING ARBITRATION AGREEMENT
 
I hereby agree that
any claims, disputes or controversies arising between (a) me and (b) BHA
Hospitality, LLC (d/b/a “Avra Beverly Hills”) [“the Company”], its current or
former officers, directors, members, employees, vendors, clients, customers,
agents, parents, subsidiaries, affiliated companies, successors, or assigns,
which could give rise to a legal claim relating to my employment with the
Company or the termination thereof, including the interpretation or application
of this Dispute Resolution Procedure and Mutual Binding Arbitration Agreement
[“Agreement”], shall be addressed in the following manner: 
 
First, through good
faith negotiation between me and the Company. 
 
Second, at the
Company’s option, through mediation administered by a mediator approved by me
and the Company and paid for by the Company. 
 
And third, if still
not resolved in steps one or two above by binding arbitration under the Federal
Arbitration Act administered by JAMS pursuant to its Employment Arbitration
Rules then in effect, and subject to JAMS Policy on Employment Arbitration Minimum
Standards of Procedural Fairness. Both the Company and I shall be entitled to
adequate discovery prior to the arbitration as determined by the arbitrator,
who shall be selected in accordance with the JAMS rules. Both the Company and I
shall have the right to be represented by counsel of our choice, and I will be
responsible for retaining my own attorney. I understand that copies of the JAMS
rules and policy are available to me at http://www jamsadr.com and that a hard
copy is either attached to this Agreement or will be provided to me upon
request at any time. If for any reason JAMS is not available, the arbitration
shall be administered by ARC (Alternative Resolution Centers) pursuant to the
rules of AAA (American Arbitration Association) then in effect for employment
disputes.
 
This Agreement
Applies to Both Me and the Company 
 
I understand and
agree that the procedures outlined in this Agreement will be the exclusive
means of redress for any disputes relating to or arising from my employment
with the Company, whether such disputes are initiated by me or the Company,
including disputes over rights provided by federal, state, or local statutes,
regulations, ordinances, and common law. The types of disputes covered by this
agreement that may apply to claims that I could bring include, but are not
limited to, claims involving laws prohibiting discrimination and unlawful
harassment based on any protected classification, such as Title VII, the
Americans with Disabilities Act, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the
California Fair Employment & Housing Act, and the California Labor Code.
However, claims prohibited by law to be arbitrated shall not be subject to this
Agreement, including but not limited to claims under California workers’
compensation laws. 
 
I understand and
agree that the arbitration will take place in the county where I last worked
for the Company, unless another location is mutually agreed upon by me and the
Company. 
 
I acknowledge
that an arbitration does not involve a jury. and that I will not be entitled to
a trial in court with a jury. I agree that the arbitrator’s award will be
final and binding on both parties. I understand that each party must pay its
own attorneys’ fees in connection with the arbitration, and that the arbitrator
may not award attorneys’ fees unless the claims involve a contract or statute
that allows for attorneys’ fees to the prevailing party.
 
Each party will have
the right to request that the arbitrator issue a written decision that
memorializes the essential findings of fact and law and the conclusions upon
which the arbitrator’s decision and the award, if any, are based. The Company
will pay the fees for the arbitrator and the use of the arbitration forum,
except that I will contribute towards the fees in an amount consistent with the
amount I would have spent to file a complaint in court. 
 
I understand that
any dispute arising out of this Agreement will be determined by the arbitrator.
I further understand that the Federal Arbitration Act shall apply when
interpreting this Agreement. 
 
If any parts of this
Agreement are found to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity,
legality and/or enforceability of the remaining provisions will not be affected
or impaired by that determination. If any terms or sections of this Agreement are
determined to be unenforceable, they shall be modified so that the
unenforceable term or section is enforceable to the greatest extent possible. 
 
Class Action
Waiver 
 
The Company and I
expressly intend and agree as follows: (1) that class action, collective
action, and representative actions or procedures shall not be asserted, nor
will they apply, in any arbitration pursuant to this Agreement; (2) that
neither the Company nor I will assert, participate in, or join class action,
collective action, or representative action claims against the other in
arbitration or otherwise; and (3) that the Company and I shall only submit our
own, individual claims in arbitration and will not seek to represent the
interests of any other person. To the extent that any representative action
claims under the California Private Attorney General Act are deemed to be
excluded from this provision, the Company and I expressly agree that such claims
will be stayed (i.e., put on hold) for the duration of any other related
existing claim. 
 
I further understand
that nothing in this Agreement precludes or prevents me from filing an
administrative complaint with the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB)
alleging any violation of the National Labor Relations Act, filing claims for
workers’ compensation or unemployment benefits; filing charges with the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) or a similar government agency; filing
claims under employee pension, welfare benefit or stock option plans if those
plans provide a dispute resolution process; submitting a whistleblower
complaint to a government agency, or filing claims that are not subject to
arbitration or pre-dispute arbitration agreements pursuant to federal law.
 
Initiating the
Dispute Resolution Process 
 
In accordance with
this Agreement, and to facilitate good faith negotiations to resolve it
promptly, I agree to give written notice to Alissa Conte, Director of
Operations at 233 N Beverly Dr., Beverly Hills, CA 90210 [insert a method of
contact], stating the nature of my claim in sufficient detail to advise the
Company of the nature of the dispute, including the timeframe of the issues
involved, the names of anyone at the company with knowledge of the dispute, and
my requested relief. The Company agrees to do the same if it initiates any
claim against me. The Company will provide such notice to me in writing at my
last known address recorded in my personnel records. I understand that this
information will be used to investigate the claim, so that the Company and I
can engage in good faith negotiations to resolve it promptly in accordance with
the three steps outlined above. 
 
The written notice
discussed in the paragraph above will trigger the dispute resolution process
and must be made within the time period required under the applicable statute
of limitations. Once the dispute resolution process has been properly
triggered, any negotiation or mediation that takes place pursuant to steps one
or two of the dispute resolution process will not count against any applicable
statute of limitations period.
 
If
you prefer this arbitration agreement translated into Spanish, please contact
the HR Department.
 
Si
prefiere este acuerdo de arbitraje traducido al espafiol, por favor contacte el
Departamento de Recursos Humanos.
 
The signature of the
parties below indicates their agreement to be bound by this DISPUTE RESOLUTION
PROCEDURE & MUTUAL BINDING ARBITRATION AGREEMENT.
 
(Salazar Decl., Ex. A, pp. 1-3, emphasis in original.)
 
It is undisputed that Plaintiff signed the agreement.  (See Plaintiff Decl., ¶ 7.)
 
However, Plaintiff contends the
agreement is void due to fraud in the execution.  Plaintiff asserts that he speaks Spanish, he
does not “speak or understand much English[,]” and Defendant made
misrepresentations about the agreement (Plaintiff claims Defendant’s
representative made him believe he was signing tax documents).  (Id. at ¶ 2; see also id. at ¶¶ 6-7;
Opposition, pp. 9-11.)
 
The Court disagrees:
 
* Lack of understanding of
English is not a defense. (See, e.g., Ramos v.
Westlake Services LLC (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th
674, 687 [“[T]he fact that [the plaintiff] signed a contract in a language he
may not have completely understood would not bar enforcement of the arbitration
agreement. If [the plaintiff] did not speak or understand English sufficiently
to comprehend the English Contract, he should have had it read or explained to
him.”].)
 
*
Plaintiff’s declaration is inadmissible and questionable.  To reiterate, Plaintiff claims he is “[un]able
to speak or understand much English” other than “restaurant terminology,” yet
he declares that (1) Defendant’s representative told him that the onboarding
documents “regard[] the dependents[,]” and (2) he understood the “dependents”
comment to mean that “the documents were all tax forms[.]”  (Plaintiff Decl., ¶ 6.)  If he only understood restaurant terms at
that time, it probably strains credulity to claim he heard “dependents” – a
non-restaurant term – and thought of tax documents.
 
* Near
the signature line, the arbitration agreement emphasizes: “If you
prefer this arbitration agreement translated into Spanish, please contact the
HR Department. Si prefiere este acuerdo de arbitraje traducido al espafiol,
por favor contacte el Departamento de Recursos Humanos.”  (Salazar Decl., Ex. A, p. 3, emphasis in
original.)  The Court’s understanding is
that the English sentence and Spanish sentence say the same thing.[1]

 
* There is no evidence
demonstrating that Plaintiff ever requested a Spanish version.  In fact, even if his declaration were
admissible, Plaintiff admits that he did not read the agreement, did not “ask
questions about it, nor ask for more time to review it[.]”  (Plaintiff Decl., ¶ 7.)
 
* Plaintiff’s reliance on Castillo
v. CleanNet USA, Inc. (N.D. Cal. 2018) 358 F.Supp.3d 912 is unpersuasive.  The plaintiff there did ask for a Spanish
version but “was told that none existed.” 
(Castillo, supra, 358 F.Supp.3d at 929.)  A Spanish-speaking representative also translated
the English contract to the plaintiff without telling him about the arbitration
provision.  (See id. at 933.)  Those facts are not present here. 
 
* The declarations from putative
class members are inadmissible and do not address the circumstances of
Plaintiff’s personal onboarding process. 
(See Reply, pp. 2-3; see also Frias Decl., ¶¶ 1-10; Pina Decl., ¶¶ 1-10;
Flores Decl., ¶¶ 1-8.)
 
The Court finds that an agreement
to arbitrate exists.
 
Federal Arbitration Act
(“FAA”)
 
Plaintiff contends the FAA is
inapplicable.  Specifically, Plaintiff
contends Defendant fails to show that the employment relationship involved
interstate commerce.  (See Opposition,
pp. 4-5.)
 
“[T]he presence of interstate commerce is not the only manner
under which the FAA may apply. . . .  [T]he
parties may also voluntarily elect to have the FAA govern enforcement of the [a]greement,
as they did here.”  (Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman Properties 8 LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 355.)  Defendant’s agreement expressly states that
the FAA applies.  (See Saldivar Decl.,
Ex. A, pp. 1, 2.)
 
Also,
Defendant’s showing is adequate. 
Paragraph 11 of the Salazar declaration provides:
 
11. BHA markets its
fine dining experience nationwide and regularly hosts out-of-state patrons and
international tourists. BHA purchases products from around the United States
and from international vendors due to its need to obtain the highest quality products.
Much of its produce and other supplies travel interstate by land, air, and sea
to reach its restaurant in Beverly Hills, California.
 
(Salazar Decl.,
¶ 11.)  The statement shows a sufficient
link to interstate commerce.
 
Enforcement
 
Plaintiff claims the arbitration
agreement is unconscionable.  (See
Opposition, pp. 11-13.) 
 
“[U]nconscionability
has both a procedural and a substantive element, the former focusing on
oppression or surprise due to unequal bargaining power, the latter on overly
harsh or one-sided results.”  (Armendariz
v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114, internal
quotation marks omitted.)  “The
prevailing view is that [procedural and substantive unconscionability] must both
be present in order for a court to exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce
a contract or clause under the doctrine of unconscionability.”  (Ibid.) 
“But they need not be present in the same degree.”  (Ibid.) 
“Essentially a sliding scale is invoked which disregards the regularity
of the procedural process of the contract formation, that creates the terms, in
proportion to the greater harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive
terms themselves.”  (Ibid.)  “In other words, the more substantively
oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability
is required to come to the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice
versa.”  (Ibid.)  
 
Plaintiff
contends the agreement is procedurally unconscionable because (1) Defendant did
not provide him with Spanish versions of the agreement and JAMS rules, and (2)
the agreement fails to identify the method of contact for Plaintiff to initiate
dispute resolution.  (See Opposition, pp.
11-12.)
 
Point (1) is
unavailing.  The agreement gives
Plaintiff the option of requesting a Spanish version of the agreement and a
hard copy of the JAMS rules.  (See
Salazar Decl., Ex. A, pp. 1, 3.)  There
is no evidence that he asked for either.[2]  Notably, the agreement identifies the website
where the JAMS rules can be accessed, and they are available in Spanish.  (See id. at Ex. A, p. 1; see also https://www.jamsadr.com/rules-download/; https://www.jamsadr.com/files/uploads/documents/
jams-spanish-employment-rules.pdf.)  
 
Point (2) also
fails. The agreement provides the mailing address of Defendant’s director of
operations and states that Plaintiff should give written notice to her to
initiate dispute resolution.  (See
Salazar Decl., Ex. A, p. 2.)
 
As to substantive unconscionability, Plaintiff contends the
agreement (1) waives class and representative claims and (2) mandates
negotiation and mediation as prerequisites to seeking arbitration.  (See Opposition, pp. 6-8, 13-14.)
 
The Court disagrees:
 
Class Waiver
 
Since
the FAA applies, Plaintiff’s reliance on Gentry v. Superior Court (2007)
42 Cal.4th 443 is unavailing. 
The arbitration agreement states:
 
The Company and I
expressly intend and agree as follows: (1) that class action, collective
action, and representative actions or procedures shall not be asserted, nor
will they apply, in any arbitration pursuant to this Agreement; (2) that
neither the Company nor I will assert, participate in, or join class action,
collective action, or representative action claims against the other in
arbitration or otherwise; and (3) that the Company and I shall only submit our
own, individual claims in arbitration and will not seek to represent the
interests of any other person. . . .
 
(Salazar Decl., Ex. A, p.
2.)  The class waiver is enforceable
under the FAA; therefore, the class claims should be stricken.  (See, e.g., Iskanian v. CLS Transportation
Los Angeles, LLC (2014) 59 Cal.4th 348, 359-360 [finding that
the FAA preempts “a state’s refusal to enforce [] a [class] waiver on grounds
of public policy or unconscionability”].)
 
Representative Private
Attorneys General Act (“PAGA”) Claim
 
Prior to Viking River Cruises,
Inc. v. Moriana (2022) 142 S.Ct. 1906 (“Viking River”), the
applicable law was Iskanian.  “Iskanian’s principal rule prohibits
waivers of ‘representative’ PAGA claims in the first sense.”  (Viking River, supra, 142 S.Ct. at
1916, underlined case name added.)  “That
is, it prevents parties from waiving representative standing to bring
PAGA claims in a judicial or arbitral forum.” 
(Ibid., emphasis in original.) 
“But Iskanian also adopted a secondary rule that invalidates
agreements to separately arbitrate or litigate ‘individual PAGA claims for
Labor Code violations that an employee suffered,’ on the theory that resolving
victim-specific claims in separate arbitrations does not serve the deterrent
purpose of PAGA.”  (Id. at 1916-1917,
underlined case name added; see also, e.g., Knight, supra, at ¶ 5:49.4m [citing
California case law for the proposition that a “single count under PAGA could
not be ‘split into an arbitrable individual claim and a nonarbitrable
representative claim”].) 
 
In Viking River, the
plaintiff “executed an agreement to arbitrate any dispute arising out of her
employment.”  (Viking River,
supra, 142 S.Ct. at 1916.)  “The agreement contained a ‘Class Action
Waiver’ providing that in any arbitral proceeding, the parties could not bring
any dispute as a class, collective, or representative PAGA action.”  (Ibid.)  “It also contained a severability clause
specifying that if the waiver was found invalid, any class, collective,
representative, or PAGA action would presumptively be litigated in court.”  (Ibid.)  “But under that severability clause, if any ‘portion’
of the waiver remained valid, it would be ‘enforced in arbitration.’”  (Ibid.)
 
“After leaving her position” with the defendant, the
plaintiff “filed a PAGA action . . . in California court.”  (Ibid.) 
“Her complaint contained a claim that [the defendant] had failed to
provide her with her final wages within 72 hours, as required by” Labor Code
sections 101 and 102.  (Ibid.)  “But the complaint also asserted a wide array
of other code violations allegedly sustained by other . . . employees,
including violations of provisions concerning the minimum wage, overtime, meal
periods, rest periods, timing of pay, and pay statements.”  (Ibid.) 
The defendant “moved to compel arbitration of [the plaintiff’s] ‘individual’
PAGA claim” – i.e., “the claim that arose from the violation she suffered — and
to dismiss her other PAGA claims.” 
(Ibid.)  “The trial court denied
that motion, and the California Court of Appeal affirmed, holding that
categorical waivers of PAGA standing are contrary to state policy and that PAGA
claims cannot be split into arbitrable individual claims and nonarbitrable ‘representative’
claims.”  (Ibid.)
 
The Court of Appeal’s ruling “was dictated by . . . Iskanian.”  (Ibid., underlined case name added.)  “Iskanian’s principal prohibition
required the lower courts to treat the representative-action waiver” in Viking
River “as invalid insofar as it was construed as a wholesale waiver of PAGA
standing.”  (Id. at 1917, underlined case
name added.)  “The agreement's
severability clause, however, allowed enforcement of any ‘portion’ of the
waiver that remained valid, so the agreement still would have permitted arbitration
of [the plaintiff’s] individual PAGA claim even if wholesale enforcement was
impossible.”  (Ibid.)  “But because” Iskanian “prohibits
division of a PAGA action into constituent claims, the state courts refused to
compel arbitration of that claim as well.” 
(Ibid.)
 
The United States Supreme Court
granted review and reversed, holding, eight to one, that the FAA preempts Iskanian
“insofar as it precludes division
of PAGA actions into individual and non-individual claims through an agreement
to arbitrate.”  (Id. at 1924.)  The opinion instructs:  
 
This holding compels reversal in this
case.  The agreement between [the
defendant] and [the plaintiff] purported to waive “representative” PAGA claims.
 Under Iskanian, this provision
was invalid if construed as a wholesale waiver of PAGA claims.  And under our holding, that
aspect of Iskanian is not preempted by the FAA, so the
agreement remains invalid insofar as it is interpreted in that manner.  But the severability clause in the agreement
provides that if the waiver provision is invalid in some respect, any “portion”
of the waiver that remains valid must still be “enforced in arbitration.”  Based on this clause, [the defendant] was
entitled to enforce the agreement insofar as it mandated arbitration of [the
plaintiff’s] individual PAGA claim.  The
lower courts refused to do so based on the rule that PAGA actions cannot be
divided into individual and non-individual claims.  Under our holding,
that rule is preempted, so [the defendant] is entitled to compel arbitration of
[the plaintiff’s] individual claim.
 
(Id. at 1924-1925, underlined case names added.)
 
The opinion continues:
 
The remaining question is what the lower
courts should have done with [the plaintiff’s] non-individual claims.  Under our holding in this case, those claims
may not be dismissed simply because they are “representative.”  Iskanian’s
rule remains valid to that extent.  But
as we see it, PAGA provides no mechanism to enable a court to adjudicate
non-individual PAGA claims once an individual claim has been committed to a
separate proceeding.  Under PAGA's
standing requirement, a plaintiff can maintain non-individual PAGA claims in an
action only by virtue of also maintaining an individual claim in that
action.  [Citation.]  When an employee's own dispute is pared away
from a PAGA action, the employee is no different from a member of the general
public, and PAGA does not allow such persons to maintain suit.  [Citation.] 
As a result, [the plaintiff] lacks statutory standing to continue to
maintain her non-individual claims in court, and the correct course is to
dismiss her remaining claims.
 
(Id. at 1925, underlined case
name added.)
 
Four takeaways are apparent:
 
* Iskanian’s prohibition
against waiving representative PAGA claims stands;
 
* Iskanian is preempted to
the extent it bars dividing PAGA claims into individual and representative
claims;
 
* the defendant is allowed to
compel the plaintiff’s individual PAGA claim to arbitration; and
 
* once the plaintiff’s individual
PAGA claim is compelled to arbitration, he or she lacks standing to maintain
the representative PAGA claim. 
 
The High Court’s standing ruling
is nonbinding.  The California Supreme
Court reversed it in a case called Adolph v. Uber Technologies, Inc.
(2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104.
 
In light of Iskanian, Viking
River, and Adolph, and because the FAA applies, the Court finds that
Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claim should be arbitrated and that the
representative PAGA claim should be stayed until the parties finish
arbitration.
 
Negotiation and Mediation
 
Defendant is waiving the
negotiation and mediation prerequisites, and, regardless, the potential threat
of an unfair advantage appears minimal. 
Presumably, both sides would have an opportunity to learn the opponent’s
arguments and evidence during negotiation and mediation.  (See Reply, p. 10.)
 
Nevertheless, as a matter of
caution, the Court will sever the negotiation and mediation prerequisites.  The Court finds that severing these
prerequisites suffices to cure the alleged defect.
 
Summary
 
Plaintiff fails to demonstrate
procedural and substantive unconscionability. 
 
The Court finds that the
arbitration agreement is enforceable.
 
Stay Request
 
Defendant’s stay request is
granted.  The Court compels Plaintiff’s
individual claims to arbitration, and the remainder of the case is stayed until
the arbitration is complete.
 
 
 
 
 
 


