  Case Number:  24AHCV00438    Hearing Date:   September 23, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER DENYING DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO COMPEL SANCTIONS AND/OR STRIKE OBJECTIONSI.               
INTRODUCTION
            On
February 29, 2024, Plaintiff Oscar Gabriel Vargas (“Plaintiff” or “Vargas”) filed
an action against Defendants Freedom Forever, LLC (“FF”), Blue Collar
Logistics, LLC (“Blue Collar”), Chester Ralph Gonzales (“Gonzales”), and Does 1
through 50, for negligence.  The action
arises out of an alleged traffic collision which took place around March 2,
2022, between Plaintiff and Defendant Gonzales. 
Gonzales was operating his vehicle in the course of employment and/or
with the express or implied authority and permission of Defendants FF and Blue
Collar.  As a result of the collision and
negligence of Defendants, Plaintiff suffered severe injuries and sustained
economic loss and damages to personal property.
            Defendant
FF filed an Answer on April 16, 2024, and Defendant Gonzales filed an Answer on
June 3, 2024.
            On
July 29, 2024, Defendants FF and Gonzales filed the instant Motion for
Sanctions and/or to Strike Frivolous Boilerplate Objections (“Motion”).  Plaintiff filed an Opposition on September 3,
2024.  No reply has been filed.
            The
Motion is denied.
II.            
LEGAL
STANDARD
A.    Motion to Strike
The court may, upon a motion, or at
any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 436, subd. (a).)  The court may also strike all or any part of
any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule, or an order of the court.  (Id. at § 436, subd. (b).)  The grounds for moving to strike must appear
on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  (Id. at § 437.)
Moreover, Code of Civil Procedure
section 435.5 requires that “[b]efore filing a motion to strike pursuant to
this chapter, the moving party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike
for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that
resolves the objections to be raised in the motion to strike.”  (Code of Civ. Proc. § 435.5, subd. (a).)
B.   
Motion to Compel Further Responses
Code of Civil
Procedure, section 2030.300 provides that “[o]n receipt of a response to
interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order compelling a
further response if the propounding party deems that” the responses contain:
(1) answers that are evasive or incomplete; (2) an unwarranted or
insufficiently specific exercise of an option to produce documents in lieu of a
substantive response; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized objections.  (Code of Civ. Proc. § 2030.300, subd.
(a).)  Notice of the motions must be given within 45 days of
service of the verified response, otherwise, the propounding party waives any
right to compel a further response. 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300, subd. (c).)  The
motion must also be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration “showing a
reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue
presented by the motion.”  (Code of Civ.
Proc. §§ 2016.040, 2030.300, subd. (b).)
Similarly, Code of
Civil Procedure, section 2033.290 provides that “[o]n receipt of a response to
requests for admission, the party requesting admissions may move for an order
compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that” the responses
contain: (1) answers that are evasive or incomplete or (2) unmerited or overly
generalized objections.  (Code of Civ.
Proc. § 2030.300, subd. (a).)  Notice of the motions must be given
within 45 days of service of the verified response, otherwise, the propounding
party waives any right to compel a further response.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.290,
subd. (c).)  The
motion must also be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration “showing a
reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue
presented by the motion.”  (Code of Civ.
Proc. §§ 2016.040, 2033.290, subd. (b).)
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1345 requires that all motions or responses involving
further discovery contain a separate statement with the text of each request,
the response, and a statement of factual and legal reasons for compelling
further responses.  (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1345, subd. (a)(2)).
C.   
Motion for Sanctions
Monetary sanctions may be imposed “ordering that one engaging in the
misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both
pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred by anyone as a
result of that conduct…If a monetary sanction is authorized by any
provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds
that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or
that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust..”  (Code of Civ. Proc. § 2023.030(a).)
Furthermore,
Code of Civil Procedure sections 2030.300, subdivision (d), and 2033.290,
subdivision (d), provide for the issuance of monetary sanctions against any
party who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further responses,
unless the court finds the party who would be subject to sanctions acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make sanctions unjust.
III.          
ANALYSIS
A.    
Defendants’
Motion
Defendants move for an order imposing
sanctions on Plaintiff and his counsel for frivolous and boilerplate objections
and failure to provide Code-compliant discovery responses.  Sanctions are being sought in the amount of
$2,025 for attorney’s fees and $60 for costs. 
Defendants also move for an order striking improper boilerplate
objections.
Defendants propounded the following discovery
requests upon Plaintiff: Special Interrogatories, Form Interrogatories, and
Requests for Admission.  (Humphrey Decl.
¶ 2A-2C, Exs. A-C.)  Defendants state
that Plaintiff’s initial responses were inappropriate and not Code-compliant,
thus, Defendants sent an extensive meet and confer letter requesting further
responses.  (Id. at ¶ 2D, Ex.
D.)  Plaintiff served further responses
which were insufficient and not Code-complaint as each set of discovery was
prefaced with “General Response and Objections.”  (Id. at ¶ 2E-2G, Exs. E-G.)  Defendants state that they sent another meet
and confer letter on June 25, 2024, attempting to explain to Plaintiff’s
counsel that each discovery request requires a separate response and there is
no authority that allows a 51-line general objection.  (Id. at ¶ 2H, Ex. H.)  They received a response that Plaintiff would
not be providing any further responses, and the objections were presented to
preserve the record.  (Id. at ¶
2H, Ex. I.)
Defendants argue that pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure sections 2033.010, 2033.210, subdivisions (a) and (b), and
2033.250, the requesting party may serve requests for admissions and within 30
days, the responding party must serve responses under oath separately
addressing each request, either with a substantive response or an objection to
the particular request.  Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure sections 2030.210, subdivision (a), and 2030.220, the
requesting party may serve interrogatories, and the responding party must serve
responses separately addressing each interrogatory, either with an answer,
production of writing containing the answer, or an objection to the particular
interrogatory.  Here, Plaintiff has
provided boilerplate responses, not tailored to each discovery request, and “apparently
designed to frustrate discovery and create delays.”  (Mot. pp. 6, 15.)  Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s conduct is
“sanctionable discovery abuse” and cite both California and federal cases for
this assertion.  (Ibid.)  Defendants also make arguments regarding
document production demands; however, these arguments are irrelevant as the
instant Motion does not pertain to a document production demand.
Defendants argue that pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 2023.010, subdivisions (e) and (f), sanctions may be
imposed for unmeritorious objections and misuse of discovery, as well as
failing to meet and confer in good faith to resolve a discovery dispute.  Here, Defendants have demonstrated that there
are no provisions in California law that allow for boilerplate objections to
each set of discovery.  Moreover,
Plaintiff never responded to the June 13, 2024, meet and confer letter to
resolve this discovery dispute.
Defendants also seek an order striking the
boilerplate objections and requiring Plaintiff to serve proper, code-compliant
responses to each identified discovery request. 
Defendants have filed a “Separate Statement” that is nearly identical to
the Memorandum of Points and Authorities.
B.     Plaintiff’s Opposition
Plaintiff argues that Defendants have not
clearly set forth the relief they are seeking through the Motion, or presented
good cause for granting any of the relief requested. 
Plaintiff argues that although general
objections were included as a preface to each set of discovery responses,
Plaintiff also provided full and complete separate answers to each
interrogatory and request for admission. 
As stated in Civil Code section 3532, “The law neither does nor requires
idle acts.”  Here, Defendants are asking
the Court to perform an idle act by striking the general objection presented in
the preface of the responses, which Defendants admit is ineffective.  Moreover, Plaintiff argues that it is
customary for attorneys to present prefatory general objections, which should
not be a concern where such objections are followed by full and complete
substantive answers.  Defendants
themselves admit that many lawyers follow this method of responding to
discovery requests.
Plaintiff also argues that the Motion is
fraught with procedural errors.  First,
the Discovery Act does not give the Court authority to strike portions of a
discovery response, but only to compel an initial or further response.  Second, if Defendants are seeking to compel
further responses, they have not filed a proper separate statement.  Defendants have submitted a repetitive
memorandum of points and authorities in lieu of a separate statement that does
not comply with the requirements of Rules of Court, rule 3.1345, subdivision
(c).  There is no evidence that the Court
allowed Defendants to submit a concise outline instead of a separate statement,
pursuant to subdivision (b).  Third,
Defendants have improperly filed three different motions—motion to strike,
motion to compel further responses, and motion for sanctions—as a single
motion.  They have also improperly filed
a single motion to compel further responses to three different discovery
requests—form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and requests for
admission.  Fourth, the Notice of Motion
is defective as it does not comply with Rules of Court, rule 3.1112,
subdivision (d)(2), in naming the party against whom it is directed.
Plaintiff also argues that a motion to strike
may only be filed to strike portions of a pleading, including a complaint,
cross-complaint, answer, or demurrer, on the basis that it is irrelevant,
false, improper, or not drawn in conformity with the law.  Here, Defendants move to strike portions of
discovery responses and do not demonstrate that the Discovery Act provides the
Court with authority to strike portions of discovery responses.  This motion also fails substantively because
Plaintiff has provided separate and complete answers to each interrogatory and
request for admission in question. 
Furthermore, the time to bring another motion to compel further
responses has expired, so moving parties have waived the right to demand
further responses.
Finally, Plaintiff argues that monetary
sanctions may be imposed when a party or attorney unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel interrogatories pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 2030.300, subdivision (d), unless the opposing party acted with
substantial justification.  Here, moving
party’s motion must be denied and so must its request for sanctions.  Moreover, Plaintiff acted with substantial
justification as it provided prefatory objections to preserve them in the same
manner as other attorneys respond to discovery. 
These general objections have not caused any delay, as Plaintiff has
provided full and complete substantive answers to each discovery request.
C.    Analysis
Having reviewed the moving papers and
opposition, the Court makes the following findings.
a.     Improperly Combined Motions
Defendants are
seeking the following forms of relief through the Motion: (1) order striking
Plaintiff’s general objections, (2) an order compelling further responses to
the discovery requests, and (3) sanctions for discovery abuse.
As noted by
Plaintiff, Defendants have improperly combined separate requests into one
motion.  Moreover, instead of filing
separate motions to compel further responses addressing different sets of
discovery requests, Defendants filed a single motion.
Combining motions allows the moving party to
avoid paying the requisite filing fees. 
Filing fees are jurisdictional and it is mandatory for court clerks to
demand and receive them.  (See Duran
v. St. Luke's Hospital (2003) 114 Cal. App.4th 457,460; Gov. Code § 70617,
subd. (a); see also Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before
Trial (The Rutter Group 2011) [8:1140.1] (“Motions to compel compliance with
separate discovery requests ordinarily should be filed separately.”)
Moreover, the fact that each motion is
authorized by a different statute and the relief available for each device is
substantively different indicates the intent of the legislature to require
separate motions for each discovery device. 
Regarding motions to compel further responses, each such motion requires
a separate statement under Rules of Court, rule 3.1345, thus, the effect is to
require each request for further response to provide a separate motion as a
matter of course.
b.    
Motion to Strike
Defendants move to
strike the introductory section containing general objections presented in
Plaintiff’s responses to form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and
requests for admission.
First, Defendants
do not cite legal authority that would allow the Court to strike portions of
discovery responses.  A motion to strike
is generally based on Code of Civil Procedure sections 435 and 436, which give
the Court the authority to strike “any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading” or “all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.”  Thus, the Court does not
have the authority to strike discovery responses pursuant to sections 435 and
436.  Defendants do not provide the Court
with any other legal authority, particularly in the Discovery Act, to strike
the general objections prefacing Plaintiff’s discovery responses.
For this reason,
the Court denies Plaintiff’s request to strike portions of the discovery
responses.
c.     
Motion to Compel Further Responses
Defendants argue
that where general boilerplate objections are made, courts have authority to
compel further responses.  (Best
Products, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 119 Cal. App.4th 1181, 1189.)
            Defendants’ request to compel further responses is
deficient for the following reasons.
First, Defendants
do not cite any authority that would specifically allow the Court to compel
further responses to interrogatories or requests for admission, including Code
of Civil Procedure sections 2030.300 and 2033.290.
            Second, as discussed previously, Defendants address three
sets of discovery requests in a single motion.
            Third, the Motion was filed untimely.  Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given within 45
days of service of the verified response, otherwise, the propounding party
waives any right to compel a further response. 
(Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.300, subd. (c), 2033.290, subd. (c).)  The Proofs of Service attached to
Plaintiff’s second set of responses demonstrate that Plaintiff served responses
to the form and special interrogatories and requests for admission on June 10,
2024, by electronic transmission.  (Mot.
pp. 89, 150, 162.)  The instant Motion
was filed on July 29, 2024, 49 days after service of the discovery responses,
thus, the propounding party already waived its right to compel further
responses.
Fourth, the
Separate Statement filed along with the Motion does not comply with Rules of
Court, rule 3.1345 as it is a nearly identical reiteration of the Memorandum of
Points and Authorities.  California Rules
of Court, rule 3.1345 requires that all motions or responses involving further
discovery contain a separate statement with the text of each request, the
response, and a statement of factual and legal reasons for compelling further
responses.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1345, subd. (a)(2)).
            For these reasons, the Court denies Defendants’ request
to compel further responses to its discovery requests.
d.     Motion
for Sanctions
Monetary sanctions may be imposed “ordering that one engaging in the misuse
of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay
the reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred by anyone as a
result of that conduct…If a monetary sanction is authorized by any
provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds
that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or
that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust..”  (Code of Civ. Proc. § 2023.030(a).)
Specifically,
Code of Civil Procedure sections 2030.300, subdivision (d), and 2033.290,
subdivision (d), provide for the issuance of monetary sanctions against any
party who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further responses,
unless the court finds the party who would be subject to sanctions acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make sanctions unjust.
Here, Defendants argue that sanctions are warranted pursuant
to Code of Civil
Procedure section 2023.010, subdivisions (e), (f), and (i), because Plaintiff
has made, “without substantial justification, an unmeritorious objection to
discovery,” provided “an evasive response to discovery,” and failed to meet and
confer in good faith.
As stated above, Defendants have improperly
combined several requests into one motion.
Moreover, the proper response to receiving
unmeritorious objections or evasive responses to discovery is to file a motion
to compel further responses.  Here, Defendants
filed an untimely and deficient motion to compel further responses, which is
denied.  Thus, the Court does not find a
legal basis to grant monetary sanctions. 
Defendants’ motion for monetary sanctions is denied.
IV.          
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendants Freedom Forever, LLC’s and Chester
Ralph Gonzales’s Motion for Sanctions and/or to Strike Frivolous
Boilerplate Objections is DENIED.
 
Dated:  September 23, 2024        JARED D. MOSES JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT