 Case Number:  22STCV25282    Hearing Date:   December 16, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



MIRACLE
  ATKINS, a minor by and through guardian ad litem DELORISE POLK AND PAIGE
  ATKINS, a minor, by and through guardian ad litem DELORISE POLK, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
SUSAN
  HANNAFORD, an individual;
MARQUESSA
  MARGOLIN, an individual; NORMA PARRY, an individual; BEVERLY HILLS PALAZZO,
  LLC, a limited liability company; KENNIE D. LEGGETT, an
individual;
  JUGGALOT COMPANY LLC, a limited liability company; RAHKEIM CRAWFORD, an
  individual; and DOES 1-100, inclusive,
                   
                    Defendant(s),


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22STCV25282
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
Plaintiff’s
  Motion for Reconsideration of Order Granting Defendant’s Motion to Quash
  Service by Publication
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
December
  16, 2024 



 
I.       INTRODUCTION
           On August 4, 2022, Plaintiffs Miracle Adkins
(Miracle) by and through Guardian Ad Litem Delorise Polk, and Paige Adkins
(Paige) by and through Guardian Ad Litem Delorise Polk (“Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint
against Defendants Susan Hannaford, Marquessa Margolin, Norma Parry, Palazzo Beverly
Hills, LLC, Kennie D. Leggett, Juggalot Company LLC, and Rahkeim Crawford
alleging four[1] causes of action:
1.  
Negligence - Wrongful Death
2.  
Premises Liability – Wrongful Death
3.  
Negligent Hiring, Retention, and Supervision –
Wrongful Death
4.  
Recovery Damages for Pain, Suffering or
Disfigurement in Survival Action
The Complaint
stems from the death of Brandi Parham (Decedent), the mother of Miracle and
Paige. Decedent was killed after being shot while attending a party on the
night of August 3, 2020 at 13200 Mulholland Drive, Beverly Hills, California
(the Premises).
The motion
now before the Court is Plaintiff’s Motion for Reconsideration of an order
granting a motion to quash service by publication. The underlying motion to
quash service by publication was filed by defendants Susan Hannaford and
Marquessa Margolin (Defendants). On October 22, 2024, the Honorable Judge Anne
Hwang granted the motion to quash service by publication. Judge Hwang’s October
22, 2024 order stated the application for publication materially omitted that
Defendants provided a mailing address while specially appearing for the motion
to quash, and that the address was for a U.S. Postal Service post office at the
McCarren International Airport in Las Vegas, Nevada. Additionally, the order
noted that the application for publication lacked any description of reasonable
diligence in relation to service in the state of Nevada. Plaintiffs filed the
instant Motion for Reconsideration under Code Civ. Proc. §1008(a) arguing that
new facts have arisen. 
Defendants
oppose the Motion for Reconsideration; Plaintiffs filed a reply.  
II.      LEGAL
STANDARDS
          The governing
statute is Code Civ. Proc. §1008(a) which provides: When an application for an
order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part,
or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the
order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of
entry of the order and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or
law, make application to the same judge or court that made the order, to
reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order. The party
making the application shall state by affidavit what application was made
before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new
or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.”
III.     DISCUSSION
          Judge Hwang’s October 22, 2024 order
pointed to two main grounds for granting the motion to quash. First, Plaintiffs
omitted the fact that Defendants provided a Nevada address through their filing
papers. Second, Plaintiffs lacked effort in exploring with proper diligence the
same Nevada address. 
In their moving papers, Plaintiffs’
provide that the new information is that service could not be effectuated
properly because of Defendants’ efforts to evade service by utilizing seven
different[2]
addresses. (Declaration of Pius Joseph, hereinafter Joseph Decl., ¶4.)
Plaintiffs detail how public court filings demonstrate Defendants listing
different addresses, with their most recent using post office locations in Las
Vegas, Nevada and Phoenix, Arizona but without specific box numbers. Plaintiffs
contend that this makes service via mail impossible because the United States
Postal Service cannot deliver to such an address. (Joseph Decl., Exh. 4.)   
          Plaintiffs’
secondary argument is that Plaintiffs have attempted service with the proper
diligence necessary, including service by publication. California Code of Civil
Procedure Sections 415.10, 415.20, 415.30, and 415.50 describe four methods of
service within California: (1) personal delivery of copy of summons and
complaint to person to be served; (2) delivery of a copy of summons and complaint
to someone else at defendant’s usual residence or place of business; (3)
service by mail coupled with acknowledgment of receipt of summons; and (4) service
by publication. 
After discovering that service within
the state of California could not be completed using the first three methods,
Plaintiffs applied for and were granted Orders for Publication on June 28, 2024
for both Defendants by the Honorable Judge Mark E. Windham. (See Orders
of Publication granted on June 28, 2024.) However, the applications requested
publication in California, after Plaintiffs received information that
Defendants may reside in Nevada. Indeed, the Court’s filings reveal that in
both the prior motions to quash filed by Defendants, both Defendants listed
their address as 5757 Wayne Newton Blvd, Las Vegas, Nevada 89119, the supposed
address for the U.S. Postal Service
post office at the McCarren International Airport. 
In their
moving papers, Plaintiffs note that service in Nevada to the listed address was
impossible.  However, publication in
Nevada was not. Specific as to the instant motion for reconsideration, the
evidence that Defendants may reside in Nevada was available to Plaintiffs well
before the application for publication was submitted to Judge Windham on June
18, 2024. The moving papers fail to demonstrate how the information that
Defendants may reside in Nevada is new. Additionally, the moving papers fail to
demonstrate how the information regarding the use of different addresses was
new. Plaintiffs pulled this information from public court filings but fail to
demonstrate that it could not have been discovered earlier with reasonable
diligence, given the difficulties with service and that Defendants had at least
four different addresses in California alone. (See Missionary
Guadalupanas of Holy Spirit Inc. v. Rouillard (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th
421, 438.) 
          In
opposition, Defendants provide two main counterarguments. The first emphasizes
the criminal history of the guardian-ad litem Delorise Polk, and the criminal
history of the father of Decedent’s children, Herman Atkins. However, those criminal
histories are wholly irrelevant to the instant motion. 
The second counterargument is the fact
that Defendants’ use of multiple addresses does not suffice as “new or
different facts” under Code Civ. Proc. §1008(a). The Court agrees.
          In reply,
Plaintiffs argue the fact the Las Vegas, Nevada address was invalid is a “new”
fact for the purposes of Code Civ. Proc. §1008(a). The Court disagrees because
the Joseph Decl., ¶4 demonstrates that
Plaintiffs knew the Las Vegas, Nevada address was invalid after receiving a
“return to sender unable to forward” notice from USPS on August 15, 2023, and
then another notice that there was no P.O. box at the post office within
McCarren International Airport on October 29, 2024. Here, the earlier notice, more
than a year before Judge Hwang’s granting of the second motion to quash should
have alerted Plaintiffs that further investigation was needed. However, it was
only after Judge Hwang’s decision that this “new” information was then provided
to the Court. Without any genuine new
information or evidence, the instant motion must, pursuant to CCP 1008.           
IV.     CONCLUSION
Plaintiff’s Motion for Reconsideration
of the Order Granting Defendant’s Motion to Quash Service by Publication is DENIED.
Plaintiffs may apply for service by publication in the state of Nevada prior to
the three-year statute of limitations for service as defined in Code Civ. Proc.
§583.210(a).
 
Moving party to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 
Dated this 16th day of December, 2024
 
 
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
 


