 Case Number:  22STCV28869    Hearing Date:   December 16, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER
Hearing Date: 12/16/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV28869 WENDY ARIAS vs
12306 GALE, LLC
Moving Party: Defendant 12306 Gale, LLC
Responding Party: Plaintiff¿ 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION IS MOOT BUT SANCTIONS GRANTED
 
This motion concerns
Defendant’s form interrogatories, set one, and special interrogatories, set
one. The parties do not dispute that the further responses at issue were served
on November 12, 2024. The motion is therefore moot. However, Defendant contends
that because the motion was served after the moving party filed their motions
to compel further, the issue of sanctions remains. Evidence shows that the
motion was filed around 4:08 PM, while the further responses were served
approximately 2 hours after the motion was filed. Further, Defendant states
that no information was provided that further responses were forthcoming prior to
or on November 12, 2024. Therefore, sanctions are appropriate to compensate
defense counsel for having drafted the motion. Defendant requests sanctions in
the amount of $960, which the court finds reasonable. Sanctions are ordered
against Plaintiff and her counsel, jointly and severally, payable to Defendant
within 20 days from today.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 