 Case Number:  22STCV25473    Hearing Date:   December 16, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27¿ 
¿ 
MOTION TO DISMISS (FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS) 
Hearing Date: 12/16/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV25473 ESTATE OF ROCHELLE TAYLOR v. LISA EAUTY
SALON & SPA
Moving Party: Defendant 
Responding Party: None
Notice: Sufficient¿¿ 
Ruling: TERMINATING SANCTIONS GRANTED
 
 
 On August 22, 2024,
Defendant Metro served a Notice of Taking Deposition and Request for Production
of Documents on Plaintiff.  Plaintiff failed
to appear for the deposition and on October 18, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s
motion to compel deposition within 20 days. 
Plaintiff nonetheless failed to appear for deposition thereafter.  
 
No opposition was filed to this motion.
 
The Civil Discovery Act provides for an
escalating and “incremental approach to discovery sanctions, starting with
monetary sanctions and ending with the ultimate sanction of termination.” (Lopez
v. Watchtower Bible & Tract Society of New York, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 566, 604.) Discovery sanctions should be appropriate to
and commensurate with the misconduct, and they “should not exceed that which is
required to protect the interests of the party entitled to but denied
discovery.” (Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992.)  “Generally, ‘[a] decision to order terminating
sanctions should not be made lightly.  But where a violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse,
and the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance
with the discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate
sanction.’” (Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223 Cal. App. 4th 377,
390 [citation omitted].)
 
The Court finds that terminating sanctions are
appropriate here given the complete lack of engagement demonstrated by
Plaintiff, and the failure to abide by the Court’s October 18 order.
 
Accordingly, seeing no opposition, and finding
that Plaintiff’s conduct is willful and severely limits Defendant’s ability to
defend this case, and that less severe sanctions have not induced compliance,
the motion for terminating sanctions is granted. 
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.