 Case Number:  22STCV33329    Hearing Date:   December 16, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT 
 



FEDERICO HERNANDEZ,
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
JAVIER
  MADRIZ ALEMAN, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22STCV33329
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
MOTION
  FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE SUMMARY ADJUDICATION


Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
December
  16, 2024



 
 
MOVING PARTIES:         Defendant Javier Madrizaleman, Defendant Marcos Valle, and
Intervenor Progressive Insurance Company on behalf of Defendant Marcos Valle
Trucking, Inc.
RESPONDING PARTY:    Plaintiff Federico Hernandez
 
I.       INTRODUCTION
On
October 12, 2022, Plaintiff Federico Hernandez (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Javier Madrizaleman, erroneously sued as Javier Madriz
Aleman (“Madrizaleman”), Marcos Valle (“Valle”), Marcos Valle Trucking, Inc.
(“MVT”), John Doe, and Does 1 to 50, inclusive, asserting one cause of action
for motor vehicle negligence. 
On
April 6, 2023, non-party Progressive Insurance Company (“Progressive”) filed a motion
to intervene on behalf of MVT.
On
June 8, 2023, the Court granted Progressive’s unopposed motion. 
On
December 21, 2023, Madrizaleman, Valle, and Progressive (collectively, the
“Moving Parties”) filed the instant motion for summary judgment or in the
alternative summary adjudication (“MSJ”). 
On
October 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed his opposition to the MSJ. 
On
October 22, 2024, Plaintiff’s former counsel of record, Russell & Lazarus,
Marc Lazarus, and Jorge F. Ramirez, filed a motion to be relieved as counsel. 
On
November 8, 2024, the Moving Parties filed a reply in support of the MSJ.
On
November 21, 2024, the Court conditionally approved Plaintiff’s counsel’s motion
to be relieved as counsel pending counsel filing and serving a revised proposed
order. 
On
November 25, 2024, the Court signed the revised order, relieving Plaintiff’s
counsel. Therefore, Plaintiff is currently self-represented. 
A
non-jury trial is scheduled for May 27, 2025.
II.      REQUEST FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE 
          No request
for judicial notice was filed. 
III.     EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS 
          The Court
rules on the objections the Moving Parties filed on November 8, 2024, as
follows: 
·        
Objection
Nos. 1, 2, 5, 6, 7, 8, 12, 15, 16, and 17: OVERRULED. 
·        
Objection
Nos. 3, 9, 10, 11, 13, and 14: SUSTAINED. 
·        
Objection
No. 4: SUSTAINED as to the big rig truck testimony but OVERRULED as to the
testimony regarding the white car. 
The
Court notes that Plaintiff did not file any objections to the Moving Parties’
evidence. Instead, he inserted objections in his responsive separate statement.
(Cf. Plaintiff’s response to the Moving
Parties’ Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts, filed on October 21,
2024 (“UMF”), ¶ 6 [right column].) However, “[a] separate statement is not, in
and of itself, evidence. It is a document that summarizes evidence and creates
a roadmap for the parties and court to work with in considering a motion for
summary judgment.” (Brown v. El Dorado Union High School Dist. (2022) 76
Cal.App.5th 1003, 1020.) Therefore, the Court declines to rule on those
objections. 
IV.     LEGAL STANDARD
In reviewing a motion for summary
judgment, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues
framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the
opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated
the existence of a triable, material factual issue.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) “[T]he
initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that
there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,
1519.)  
A defendant moving for summary judgment
“has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if
the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . .
cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of
action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) To meet this burden of
showing a cause of action cannot be established, a defendant must not only show
“that the plaintiff does not possess needed evidence,” but also that “the
plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 854 [italics in original].) It is insufficient for the
defendant to merely point out the absence of evidence. (Gaggero v. Yura
(2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891.) The defendant “must also produce evidence
that the plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain evidence to support his or her
claim.” (Ibid.) The supporting evidence can be in the form of
affidavits, declarations, admissions, depositions, answers to interrogatories,
and matters of which judicial notice may be taken. (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 855.) 
“Once the defendant . . . has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue
of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The plaintiff may not merely
rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of
material fact exists, but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so,
summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi
v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
 
V.      DISCUSSION
The
Attachment to the Complaint alleges that on or about October 16, 2020, at “[o]r
near westbound 1-10 freeway East Holt Avenue in an unincorporated area of the
County of Los Angeles, State of California,” the defendants were negligent,
causing Plaintiff’s injuries and damages. The Complaint alleges more
specifically that Madrizaleman and the Doe defendants operated their vehicle
negligently, and that Madrizaleman, Valle, and MVT owned, entrusted, and
employed the persons who operated that vehicle. 

“The operator of a vehicle must keep a
proper lookout for other vehicles or persons on the highway and must keep his
car under such control as will enable him to avoid a collision; failure to keep
such a lookout constitutes negligence.” (Downing v. Barrett Mobile Home
Transport, Inc. (1974) 38 Cal.App.3d 519, 524.)
To prove that Plaintiff’s motor vehicle
negligence claim lacks merit, the Moving Parties submit the following evidence.

It is undisputed that on October 16,
2020, Madrizaleman was driving a 2012 Peterbilt 86 truck and trailer (the “Peterbilt
Truck”) on westbound Interstate-10 San Bernardino Freeway at or near the
intersection E Holt Avenue in West Covina, when the Peterbilt Truck came into
contact with a 2018 white Kia Optima (the “White Kia”) driven by nonparty Kalin
Alicia Tomlinson (“Tomlinson”). (UMF, ¶¶ 2, 3.)
In his declaration, Madrizaleman
testifies that the only vehicle he came into contact with that day was the
White Kia, and that he never came into contact with Plaintiff’s vehicle, a 2018
White Toyota Corolla. (Moving Parties’ Compendium of Exhibits, filed on
December 21, 2023 (“COE”), Exhibit I – Declaration of Defendant Javier
Madrizaleman, ¶¶ 2-6.)
Indeed, according to police reports of
the incident, Plaintiff was involved in a collision with other people that are
not parties in this lawsuit: a blue Kia vehicle (the “Blue Kia”) driven by a
hit-and-run unknown driver and a white 2006 Honda Civic (“White Honda”) driven
by Herlinda M. Cruz (“Cruz”). (COE, Exhibit G – Police Report Number
9525-2020-05329, p. 1.) The police report referred to the Blue Kia driver as
Party 1, Plaintiff as Party 2, and Cruz as Party 3. (Id. at p. 5.)
According to the report, the collision involving those three cars was caused by
Party 1, who was driving at an unsafe speed. (Id. at p. 7.) Party 1 was
unable to stop in time and as a result, collided with Party 2 (Plaintiff), who
was propelled forward and collided with the rear of Party 3’s vehicle. (Id.
at p. 6.) 
In response to Madrizaleman’s request
for admissions, Plaintiff testified under penalty of perjury that (a) the unknown
driver that fled the scene was negligent, and (b) “the unknown driver that fled
the scene was a substantial factor in causing the injuries [Plaintiff]
allege[s] to have sustained in the accident which is the subject of this
litigation.” (COE, Exhibit D – a copy of Plaintiff’s Amended Responses to Request
for Admissions, Set One, p. 7:14-22.) 
Plaintiff also stated in his discovery responses that he
believed Madrizaleman’s Peterbilt Truck “struck the Blue Kia and pushed it into
Plaintiffs’ vehicle a second time.” (COE, Exhibit C – Plaintiff’s Amended
Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One, p. 32:6-15.)
However, Plaintiff also testified under
penalty of perjury (a) he did not see Madrizaleman’s Peterbilt Truck hit any
other vehicles, and, (b) even more specifically, he did not see the Peterbilt
Truck hit the vehicle being driven by the unknown driver that fled the scene
(i.e., the Blue Kia), showing lack of personal knowledge that Madrizaleman’s
truck collided with the Blue Kia, which then collided with Plaintiff’s vehicle.
(COE, Exhibit D – a copy of Plaintiff’s Amended Responses to Request for
Admissions, Set One, p. 8:16-24.)
Based on the above evidence, the Court
finds that the Moving Parties have met their initial burden of proving that
Plaintiff’s motor vehicle negligence claim against Madrizaleman, Valle, and MVT
lacks merit by showing that the defendants were not involved in any automobile
collision with Plaintiff’s vehicle.
Accordingly, the burden shifts to
Plaintiff to raise a triable issue of material fact regarding his motor vehicle
negligence claim. 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that
his deposition testimony is circumstantial evidence that Madrizaleman caused
his accident. He argues that he “testified that he passed by Defendant’s
vehicle before the incident occurred [citation]…,” “the second impact he
sustained to his vehicle was caused by Defendant’s vehicle [citation],” and “that
he heard the screeching tires are air brakes from Defendant’s vehicle before
the incident occurred [citation].” (Opposition, p. 8:10-13.)
However, “[a]fter-the-fact attempts to
reverse prior admissions are impermissible because a party cannot rely on
contradictions in his own testimony to create a triable issue of fact.
[Citations.]” (Thompson v. Williams (1989) 211 Cal.App.3d 566, 573-574, 259
Cal.Rptr. 518.)
Here, Plaintiff has not explained why
he is contradicting his prior sworn testimony that a Blue Kia hit his vehicle. 
Most importantly, Plaintiff has failed
to show how he knows it was Madrizaleman’s Peterbilt Truck (and not another
vehicle) that collided with his vehicle when he testified that he never saw the
Peterbilt Truck collide with any vehicle, including his own. 
Therefore, the Court finds that
Plaintiff has failed to meet his burden of showing that a triable issue of
material fact exists as to his motor vehicle negligence claim.
Plaintiff argues that the Court should
continue the hearing to allow him to obtain material evidence, specifically,
(1) dash cam footage of the accident taken from Madrizaleman’s truck, and (2)
photographs of the property damage sustained as a result of the incident.
(Opposition, pp. 10:22-11:5.) He argues that Madrizaleman testified the video
was working at the time of the incident and “could be dispositive of this case
and clear up some factual issues.” (Opposition, p. 11:14-20.)
The relevant statute states that “[i]f
it appears from the affidavits submitted in opposition to a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication, or both, that facts essential to justify
opposition may exist but cannot, for reasons stated, be presented, the court
shall deny the motion, order a continuance to permit affidavits to be obtained
or discovery to be had, or make any other order as may be just.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (h); Sanchez v. Bezos (2022) 80 Cal.App.5th 750,
763, fn. 3 [“An affidavit is ‘“a written declaration under oath” [citation],
taken before “any officer authorized to administer oaths.” [Citations.]’
[Citation]”].) “‘The purpose of the affidavit required by Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c, subdivision (h) is to inform the court of outstanding
discovery which is necessary to resist the summary judgment motion.
[Citations.]’ [Citation.]” (Bahl v. Bank of America (2001) 89
Cal.App.4th 389, 397.)
Here, Plaintiff has not filed or
submitted any affidavit in support of his request for a continuance. Although
his former counsel submitted a declaration in support of the opposition, the
declaration did not request any continuance, mention missing evidence, or
explain why the alleged dispositive video evidence could not be presented in
time for the opposition.  
Therefore, the Court denies the request
to continue the hearing.  
For the reasons set forth above, the motion
for summary judgment is granted.
VI.     CONCLUSION
Defendants
Javier Madrizaleman, Defendant Marcos Valle, and Intervenor Progressive
Insurance Company on behalf of Defendant Marcos Valle Trucking, Inc.’s Motion
for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. 
Moving party to give notice.
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
      Dated this 16th day of December 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 