 Case Number:  22STCV28197    Hearing Date:   December 16, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



County of Los Angeles, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
CACHERIS
  TANEICE WASHINGTON, et
  al.,
 
                   Defendant(s),


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.: 22STCV28197
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
 
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
December
  16, 2024 



 
I.       INTRODUCTION
          This matter
stems from an automobile accident that occurred on October 13, 2020, where
Christian Lopez (Lopez) an on-duty police officer was rear-ended by a vehicle
driven by Cacheris Washington (Cacheris) and owned by Tanequia Washington
(hereinafter, the Washington Defendants). Lopez filed suit against the Washington
Defendants and the suit was settled on February 9, 2021 for $15,000.00.
Subsequently, the County of Los Angeles (the County) filed a Complaint against the
Washington Defendants for compensatory damages and workers’ compensation
benefits paid to Lopez. A Cross-Complaint and then Amended Cross-Complaint in
Interpleader was filed by the Washington Defendants. Lopez then filed an answer
to the Amended Cross-Complaint in Interpleader, alleging that the County’s
claims were junior to Lopez’s claims. 
          The
motion now before the Court is the County’s Motion to Quash Lopez’s Subpoena on
Sedgwick Claims Management Services. Lopez opposes the Motion; the County filed
a reply. The Court notes the Motion to Quash is untimely under Code Civ. Proc.
§1985.3(g), however California has a strong public policy in favor of deciding
cases on the merits, especially if the opposing party has suffered no
prejudice. (Oliveros¿v. County of
Los Angeles¿(2004) 120
Cal.App.4th 1389, 1398-1399. Also see Code Civ. Proc.§ 583.130.)
  
              
II.      LEGAL
STANDARDS
“If a subpoena requires the attendance
of a witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders.” (Code Civ. Proc.§ 1987.1.)      
 
III.     DISCUSSION
           In their moving papers, the County asserts
several arguments in support of quashing Lopez’s subpoena to the County’s
third-party claims administrator, Sedgwick
Claims Management Services (Sedwick). The three primary arguments are: (1) the
scope of the subpoena is overly broad, (2) the information requested is
protected by attorney-client privilege and attorney work-product doctrine, and
(3) because Lopez is requesting records of a peace officer, the County must
deny the request as a violation of Pen. Code §832.7. As explained below, the
Court disagrees that Pen. Code §832.7 bars release of the requested documents;
however the subpoena must be narrowed and the information requested falls
within the scope of the attorney-client privilege and the attorney work-product
doctrine, therefore the County’s Motion to Quash is granted. 
The Court
will briefly address the County’s third argument first. The County contends the
records Lopez is requesting are part of his personnel file as a peace officer
employed by the County. Under Pen. Code §832.7(b) “the personnel records of
peace officers and custodial officers…or information obtained from these
records, are confidential and shall not be disclosed in any criminal or civil
proceeding except by discovery pursuant to Sections
1043 and 1046 of the Evidence Code.” Pen. Code §832.5 defines a
personnel file as “the file maintained by the agency containing the primary
records specific to each peace or custodial officer's employment, including
evaluations, assignments, status changes, and imposed discipline.” The entirety
of Lopez’s requests surround his workers’ compensation claim. The County fails
to explain how the documents requested fall under the categories of employment,
evaluations, assignments, status changes, or imposed discipline.  
          Scope
          The
County’s second contention argues that the subpoena is impermissibly overbroad
and should be narrowed. The Court agrees. Both parties agree the main issue is
which party is entitled to the $15,000.00 deposited with the Court. The
subpoena contains the following nine requests:
1.  
All DOCUMENTS
RELATING TO COMMUNICATIONS between YOU and CHRISTIAN LOPEZ from October 13,
2020, until the present.
2.  
All claim file
notes PERTAINING TO Claim No. 121-01617-A RELATING TO COMMUNICATIONS between
YOU and CHRISTIAN LOPEZ from October 13, 2020, until the present.
3.  
All
COMMUNICATIONS between CHRISTIAN LOPEZ and YOU PERTAINING TO Claim No.
121-01617-A.
4.  
All
COMMUNICATIONS between CHRISTIAN LOPEZ's counsel and YOU from October 13, 2020,
until the present.
5.  
All DOCUMENTS
REFLECTING names of PERSON(S) at SEDGWICK that worked on Claim No. 121-01617-A.
6.  
All
COMMUNICATIONS between YOU and DEFENDANTS from October 13, 2020, until the
present REGARDING the INCIDENT
7.  
All
COMMUNICATIONS between YOU and DEFENDANTS from October 13, 2020, until the
present REGARDING Claim No. 121-01617-A.
8.  
All claim file
notes PERTAINING TO Claim No. 121-01617-A RELATING TO COMMUNICATIONS from
CHRISTIAN LOPEZ from October 13, 2020, until the present.
9.  
All claim file
notes PERTAINING TO Claim No. 121-01617-A RELATING TO COMMUNICATIONS from
DEFENDANTS from October 13, 2020, until the present.
 
Although
there are clearly time and subject scopes within the majority of requests,
Request No. 5 asks for all documents reflecting names of persons at Sedgwick
that worked on the claim. It is unclear why all the names of individuals who
worked on the claim are necessary if Lopez is simply attempting to show that
the County knew of the settlement. Request No. 6 asks for all communications
between Sedgwick and the Washington Defendants; it is unclear why all
communications between Sedgwick and the Washington Defendants are necessary and
not just the communications referencing the settlement of the claims. Request
No. 8 asks for all claim file notes relating to the claim and communications
between Sedgwick and Lopez. Not only does Request No. 8 seem duplicative of
Request No. 1, but there may also very well be file notes wholly unrelated to
the primary issue of the settlement amount. The County argues this much in
their moving papers, and contrary to Lopez’s contention, the County has
sufficiently carried their burden of substantiating their objections based on
over breadth.  
Attorney-client
Privilege and Attorney Work-product Doctrine
The
privileges asserted by the County are well-known. “The attorney-client
privilege, set forth at Evidence Code section 954, confers a privilege on the
client ‘to refuse to disclose, and to prevent another from disclosing, a
confidential communication between client and lawyer....’” (Costco Wholesale
Corp. v. Superior Court, (2009) 47 Cal.4th 725, 740.) 
“Work
produced by an attorney's agents and consultants, as well as the attorney's own
work product, is protected by the attorney work-product doctrine.” (Citizens
for Ceres v. Superior Court, (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 889, 911.)  
          In
their moving papers, the County argues that Sedgwick, their third-party claims
administrator, made all communications and claim file notes at the direction of
the County in anticipation of litigation for both the workers’ compensation
case and the subrogation case. (Moving Papers, p.11, lines 5-10.) The County
analogizes this case to Scripps Health v. Superior Court (2003), 109
Cal.App.4th 529 (Scripps). In Scripps the plaintiffs
brought a wrongful death action against the defendant hospital; when a motion
for disclosure of hospital records was granted, the hospital appealed arguing
attorney-client privilege. The Court of Appeal ruled in favor of the hospital.
In Scripps the hospital required employees to make reports. The Court of
Appeal explained that the dominant purpose of the reports subject to the motion
was for transmittal to an attorney in the course of the professional
attorney-client relationship. (Id. at 534.) Therefore, the documents
were subject to attorney-client privilege. The similarities of Scripps
to the case at bar are evident.         
The County
contends Sedgwick and its agents incorporate communications and notes from the
County’s attorneys into claim file notes and throughout an entire file. Moreover,
after Lopez began receiving workers’ compensation payments in October of 2020,
the County anticipated Lopez’s workers’ compensation claim would be litigated.
Lopez filed his notice of application for adjudication of his workers’
compensation claim on June 10, 2021. Therefore, many of the documents requested
will fall under attorney-client privilege. Similarly, internal documents
discussing the underlying incident may fall under the work-product doctrine
because of the communication or direction provided by an attorney. 
Although many
of the documents requested are privileged, not all of them will be. For
example, communications directly between Sedgwick and Lopez may not be protected
by the attorney-client privilege because the privilege is waived when the
client communicates voluntarily to a third-party. Accordingly, the County will
need to provide a privilege log pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. §2031.240(c)(1).   
IV.     CONCLUSION
The County’s Motion to Quash is GRANTED.
If Lopez chooses to reissue a narrower subpoena, Lopez may do so. If the County
chooses to assert privileges in its response to the new subpoena, it shall
provide a privilege log in doing so. 
Moving party to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at 


 
the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 
Dated this 16th day of December, 2024
 
 
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
 