 Case Number:  20STCV49938    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  50 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 
 



ALBRIK LEVICK GHARIBIAN,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES,
  et al.
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


20STCV49938




Hearing Date:


September 6, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    1:30 p.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES’ MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR IN THE
  ALTERNATIVE SUMMARY ADJUDICATION OF ISSUES
 



 
Background
Plaintiff Albrick Levick Gharibian (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on
December 31, 2020 against Defendant County of Los Angeles (“Defendant”). 
Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) on July
23, 2021, alleging causes of action for (1) age discrimination, (2) harassment
based on age, (3) retaliation, and 
(4) failure
to promote because of discrimination based on age, national origin and
ancestry.
            Defendant now moves for summary
judgment, or in the alternative summary adjudication of issues. Plaintiff
opposes.[1]
Request for Judicial Notice 
The
Court grants Defendant’s request for judicial notice. 
Evidentiary Objections 
The
Court rules on the parties’ Revised Joint Statement Regarding Unresolved
Material Objections to the Parties’ Evidence in Support of and Opposition to
Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment as follows:[2] 
Plaintiff’s
Objections:
Objection
No. 1: overruled
Objection
No. 2: overruled 
Objection
No. 6: overruled 
Objection
No. 7: overruled
Objection
No. 8: overruled 
Objection
No. 9: overruled
Objection
No. 10: overruled 
Objection
No. 12: overruled 
Objection
No. 14: overruled 
Defendant’s
Objections: 
Objection
No. 12: sustained as to “[a]ttached as Exhibit 12 are true and correct copies
of my CPOE complaint and documents,” overruled as to the remainder. It is
unclear if Plaintiff attached the referenced “CPOE complaint and documents” to
his supporting declaration. Plaintiff’s declaration references thirteen
exhibits, but the documents attached to the declaration are not clearly
identified as corresponding to any particular exhibit. 
Objection
No. 13: sustained. In addition, as discussed, the documents attached to
Plaintiff’s declaration do not appear to be identified as corresponding to any
particular exhibit. 
 
Plaintiff’s
Conditionally Withdrawn Objections 
Objection
No. 3: overruled 
Objection
No. 4: overruled 
Legal Standard
“[A] motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all the papers
submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.” ((Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “A party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes
of action within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more
claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party contends that
the cause of action has no merit, that there is no affirmative defense to the
cause of action, that there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any
cause of action, that there is no merit to a claim for damages, as specified in
Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more
defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs. A
motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes
of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue
of duty.” ((Id.,
§ 437c, subd. (f)(1).) 
The moving party bears the initial burden of production to
make a
prima facie showing that there are
no triable issues of material fact. ((Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25
Cal.4th 826, 850.)
If the moving party carries this burden, the burden shifts to the opposing
party to make a prima
facie showing that a triable issue of material
fact exists. ((Ibid.) Courts
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” ((Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) 
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision
(p)(2), “[a]
defendant or cross-defendant has met that party’s burden of showing that a
cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements
of the cause of action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established,
or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action. Once the defendant
or cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff or
cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto. The plaintiff or
cross-complainant shall not rely upon the allegations or denials of its
pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead,
shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material
fact exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” 
Discussion
A.    Allegations of the
FAC
In the FAC, Plaintiff alleges he “is aged 67 years old and has worked
for Defendant Los Angeles County Tax Assessor’s Office since November 16, 1998.
Plaintiff is a foreign-born naturalized U.S. citizen and speaks with an accent.”
(FAC, ¶ 5.) “Plaintiff works in the County Assessor’s Office and is part of the
Mainframe System Support Group as a Data Systems Analyst Aid in the Technical
Support Section.” (FAC, ¶ 12.)
“Management in Plaintiff’s unit has on numerous occasions falsely
accused Plaintiff of being an angry person blaming [sic] his physical features
including referring to his ‘skinny 
facial
features’. Plaintiff’s supervisor, Saundra Thomas and others in his unit
intentionally 
created
false circumstances in order to label Plaintiff as a ‘trouble maker’.” (FAC, ¶
13.) 
             “Plaintiff trained numerous co-workers in his
unit including Hoang Tran.” (FAC, ¶ 15.) 
“Plaintiff
began to feel that he was being forced out and neglected by his supervisors
despite Plaintiff’s repeated complaints to his supervisors regarding
mistreatment by co-workers including Mr. Tran. Plaintiff has been repeatedly
accused of not being a ‘team player’ and is supported by Ms. Thomas. All these
actions were done in order to place Mr. Tran in a position to takeover
Plaintiff’s duties and responsibilities forcing Plaintiff to quit or retire.”
(FAC, ¶ 19.) 
“Thomas’ conduct towards Plaintiff allowed her to withhold promotional
opportunities from Plaintiff and advancement including qualifications for
additional bonuses and routinely downgraded Plaintiff’s performance evaluations
with the express purpose of forcing Plaintiff to quit his job.” (FAC, ¶ 21.)
“Plaintiff’s treatment by his supervisors is demonstrated by the Organization
chart naming employees in his department, title and establishing the chain of
command. The Organizational Chart created in June 2021 by Plaintiff’s
supervisors, was emailed to all employees in Plaintiff’s department incorrectly
[sic] refers to Plaintiff’s job title incorrectly.” (FAC, ¶ 22.) 
B.     Procedural Arguments 
As an initial matter, in
the opposition, Plaintiff asserts that Defendant’s motion “should be denied due
to its improper separate statement of undisputed material facts.” (Opp’n at p.
18:5-6.)[3]
Plaintiff cites to California Rules of Court, rule
3.1350, subdivision (b), which provides that “[i]f made in the alternative,
a motion for summary adjudication may make reference to and depend on the same
evidence submitted in support of the summary judgment motion. If summary
adjudication is sought, whether separately or as an alternative to the motion
for summary judgment, the specific cause of action, affirmative defense, claims
for damages, or issues of duty must be stated specifically in the notice of
motion and be repeated, verbatim, in the separate statement of undisputed
material facts.” In addition, pursuant to California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1350, subdivision (d)(1), “[t]he Separate Statement
of Undisputed Material Facts in support of a motion must separately identify:
(A) Each cause of action, claim for damages, issue of duty, or affirmative
defense that is the subject of the motion; and (B) Each supporting
material fact claimed to be without dispute with respect to the cause of
action, claim for damages, issue of duty, or affirmative defense that is the
subject of the motion.” 
Plaintiff argues that
here, “the County has failed to distinguish each cause of action for summary
adjudication/ summary judgment in its separate statement. Instead, the County
has amalgamated all causes of action and provided supporting material facts
collectively.” (Opp’n at p. 18:14-16.) In the reply, Defendant asserts that
“[i]n compliance with rule 3.1350(b), the County
specifically stated each affirmative defense it raised with respect to
Plaintiff’s four causes of action…The County set forth in its notice of motion,
and repeated, verbatim, in the separate statement, six (6) such affirmative
defenses, each one attacking an element of Plaintiff’s causes of action for discrimination,
harassment, and retaliation…In compliance with rule
3.1350(d), the County’s
separate statement separately identified each of the six (6) affirmative
defenses.” (Reply at p. 10:5-11, emphasis omitted.) Defendant’s six issues are stated
in Defendant’s notice of motion and are repeated in Defendant’s separate
statement. 
Based on the foregoing,
the Court does not find that Defendant’s motion should be denied due to the
formatting of Defendant’s separate statement. 
C.     First and Fourth Causes of Action  
Plaintiff’s first cause
of action is for age discrimination and his fourth cause of action is for
“failure to promote because of discrimination based on age, national origin and
ancestry.” 
California applies the burden-shifting
formula set forth in McDonnell Douglas
Corp. v. Green (1973) 411 U.S.
792, 802,[4]
under which a plaintiff must first establish a prima facie case
of  discrimination by showing
that: (1) he or she was a member of a
protected class, (2) that he or she was qualified for and performing
competently in the position she held, (3) he or she suffered an adverse
employment action, and (4) conduct by the employer suggesting that it is more
likely than not that the adverse employment action was due to a discriminatory
motive. (Guz v. Bechtel National, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 355.) If the plaintiff establishes a prima facie case,
the burden shifts to the employer to rebut the
presumption of discrimination by
offering a legitimate nondiscriminatory reason for the adverse employment
action. (Ibid.) If the employer
meets this burden, the presumption of discrimination disappears,
and the burden shifts back to the plaintiff to produce evidence that the
employer’s reasons for the adverse employment action were a mere pretext
for discrimination. (Id. at p.
356.) 
In the motion, Defendant
argues, inter alia, that “Plaintiff has failed
to establish any facts establishing that any alleged adverse employment action
was based in any way on his race, age, or any protected complaints made.” (Mot.
at p. 13:2-3.) Defendant also argues that its actions were based on
legitimate, non-discriminatory reasons. 
Defendant submits the Declaration of Kotomi Nakayama, who is currently
an employee of Defendant’s Department of Human Resources. (Nakayama Decl., ¶
2.) Mr. Nakayama states that Plaintiff “applied for promotion to Information
Systems Analyst (‘ISA’) II on or about November 28, 2017,” and that “Plaintiff
took the promotional examination for ISA II on or about January 21, 2018.
Plaintiff failed the exam, scoring a 60.6%, which was below the required 70%
minimum to pass part 1 of the examination (the online multiple-choice test) and
advance to part II of the examination.” (Nakayama ¶¶ 3-4.) Mr. Nakayama states
that “[o]n or about November 7, 2018, Plaintiff against applied for promotion
to Information Systems Analyst (‘ISA’) II (Job/Exam Number R2591R-R).” (Nakayama
¶ 5.) “On or about December 14, 2018, Plaintiff was provided with a notice
informing him that, because he had taken an identical multiple-choice test
within the past 12 months, he would automatically have his test responses
transferred to Job/Exam Number R2591R-R and would not be allowed to re-take any
identical test parts, as stated in the job bulletin…Therefore, Plaintiff was
not invited to take the multiple-choice test examination and his failing score
of 60.6% from the exam he took on or about January 21, 2018, automatically
transferred to this subsequent examination.” (Nakayama ¶ 6.) 
Defendant also submits the Declaration of Saundra
Thomas, who states that she is “currently an employee of Defendant County of
Los Angeles’ Assessor’s office as an Information Systems Supervisor I…” (Thomas
Decl., ¶ 2.) Ms. Thomas states that she has “been supervising [Plaintiff] in [her]
capacity as an Information Systems Supervisor I since 2008.” (Thomas Decl., ¶
2.) Ms. Thomas indicates that “[o]n or around May 22, 2015, Plaintiff submitted
a request for an Out-Of-Class assignment to ISA II, claiming that he has
performed, full-time, all of the significant duties of the ISA II position
since he took over several of Saul Duenas’ (‘Mr. Duenas’, a former ISA II with
the County Assessor) job duties in or around June 2013 when Mr. Duenas left the
Assessor’s Office.” (Thomas Decl., ¶ 6.) Ms. Thomas states in her declaration
that “in or around 2013, a former coworker of Plaintiff, Mr. Duenas, who held
the title of ISA II was preparing to leave the County Assessor’s office.
Accordingly, the Assessor’s office developed processes and responsibilities in
such a manner that a lower-level employee like Plaintiff could complete them,
including the ‘Statute of Limitations’ and ‘Secured Valuation Balancing’ tasks
that Plaintiff claims he was assigned to, and that in the past were performed
and maintained by an ISA II. I explained to Plaintiff that because the
processes had already been implemented, Plaintiff’s reviewing, maintaining, and
inserting data into the process did not qualify as ISA II level work.
Furthermore, Mr. Duenas had other assignments that were not transferred to
Plaintiff because they were ISA II level work that Plaintiff was not able to
complete. For example, Mr. Duenas participated in Development, which is writing
and creating code to maintain a system that other people could use to do work.
Mr. Duenas also created SQL queries, which are designed to manipulate and
retrieve data, which is ISA II level work. All assignments that were transferred
to Plaintiff were ISA I level assignments or lower. In my response letter to
Plaintiff’s request for an Out-Of-Class assignment, I addressed each point
raised by Plaintiff in his request for Out-Of-Class assignment, explaining to
Plaintiff that although he contended that many of his assigned systems/projects
had been maintained by an ISA II, none of the work that Plaintiff actually
performed was ISA II level work. Accordingly, I could not recommend the
approval of Plaintiff’s request for an Out-Of-Class bonus.” (Thomas Decl., ¶
9.) 
Defendant asserts that “the County could not
promote Plaintiff to ISA II because he did not pass a promotional examination…Furthermore,
Plaintiff was not given an out-of-class bonus because, as his supervisor Ms.
Thomas informed him, he was not performing ISA II level work that would justify
him earning such a bonus.” (Mot. at p. 13:19-22.)
In the opposition, Plaintiff asserts that his
“first cause of action based on age discrimination survives summary judgment.”
(Opp’n at p. 12:16.) More specifically, the opposition asserts that “Plaintiff
states that he was unfairly denied his promotion and training opportunities
that went to younger employees.” (Opp’n at p. 12:25-27.) The Court notes that
Plaintiff does not appear to cite any evidence in support of this argument. It is
unclear what evidence Plaintiff is purportedly relying on.  
To the extent Plaintiff is relying on his Additional
Material Fact (“AMF”) No. 83, this fact provides that “Plaintiff was excluded
from Titan Training even though other younger group members were given access.
Plaintiff was provided access in January of 2024.” In support of this fact,
Plaintiff cites to, inter alia, “Thomas Depo. pp.75-77.” (Plaintiff’s
AMF No. 83.) However, the excerpts of Saundra Thomas’s deposition transcript
attached as Exhibit 2 to Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration does not contain any
pages 75-77. (Mnatzaganian Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. 2.) Plaintiff also cites to the
following testimony from the deposition of Hoang Tran: “Q. Okay. So to your
knowledge, in 2023 or '24, Mr. Gharibian did not have access to TITAN; is that
correct? A. Yes.” (Mnatzaganian Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. 3 (Tran Depo.) at p. 30:22-25.)
In addition, Plaintiff cites to the following testimony: “Q. Okay. And so you
gave access sometime between January 23rd and 24th to Levick to access TITAN;
isn’t that correct?...A. Yes, I gave the access to him.” (Id. at p. 68:10-20.) However, it is unclear how
the foregoing testimony shows that Plaintiff was purportedly discriminated
against on the basis of his age. In addition, as noted by Defendant, Plaintiff
does not appear to submit any “evidence regarding the age(s) of any of his
allegedly younger coworkers who he believes received more favorable treatment.”
(Reply at p. 5:5-6.) 
Plaintiff also argues that “it took Defendant 4
years to tell Plaintiff that he was not suited for a promotion. During those
four years Plaintiff attempted to test into the position but was unsuccessful.”
(Opp’n at p. 15:6-8.) Again, Plaintiff does not cite to evidence in support of
this assertion. Plaintiff may be relying on the following testimony from the
deposition of Saundra Thomas: “Q. It’s fair to say that the first time Mr. Gharibian
found out about his out-of-class assignment was on October 1, 2019; is that
correct? A. The denial of it? Q. Yes. A. Formally, in writing, correct….Q….Do
you think it’s fair that he had to wait four years to know that his request was
rejected?... The timing was unfortunate. I don’t think it was a matter of
fairness.” (Mnatzaganian Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. 2 (Thomas Depo.) at p. 35:1-6;
35:21-36:2.) However, as noted by Defendant, Plaintiff does not appear to point
to any evidence showing “that the delay by the County in responding to
Plaintiff’s request for the out of class bonus was motivated by any animus
toward Plaintiff based on his age, or any other prohibited factor.” (Reply at
p. 1:25-27.) 
In addition, Plaintiff’s opposition does not
appear to contain any discussion of his fourth cause of action for “failure to
promote because of discrimination based on age, national origin and ancestry.”
The opposition does not appear to contain any argument regarding any adverse
employment action purportedly taken on the basis of Plaintiff’s national origin
or ancestry. 
As noted by Defendant, in Guz v. Bechtel National, Inc. supra, 24 Cal.4th at pages 354-355, the
California Supreme Court noted that “[a]t trial, the McDonnell Douglas test
places on the plaintiff the initial burden to establish a prima facie case of
discrimination. This step is designed to eliminate at the outset the most
patently meritless claims, as where the plaintiff is not a member of the
protected class or was clearly unqualified, or where the job he sought was
withdrawn and never filled. While the plaintiff’s prima facie burden is not
onerous, he must at least show actions taken by the employer from which one can
infer, if such actions remain unexplained, that it is more likely than not that
such actions were based on a [prohibited] discriminatory criterion…” (Internal
quotations and citations omitted.) Here, Plaintiff does not appear to point to
any evidence showing actions taken by Defendant that were based on a
discriminatory criterion. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that
Defendant has shown that Plaintiff’s first and fourth causes of action are
without merit. The Court does not find that Plaintiff has raised a triable
issue of material fact as to these causes of action.  
D.    Third Cause of Action for Retaliation 
“[I]n
order to establish a prima facie case of retaliation under the FEHA, a
plaintiff must show (1) he or she engaged in a ‘protected activity,’ (2) the employer
subjected the employee to an adverse employment action, and (3) a causal link
existed between the protected activity and the employer’s action.” (Yanowitz v.
L'Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1042.) Protected activity includes
opposing “any practices forbidden” under FEHA or filing a complaint,
testifying, or assisting in any proceeding under FEHA. (Gov.
Code, section 12940, subd. (h).)¿¿¿
Defendant asserts that
Plaintiff has failed to show “any facts establishing that any alleged adverse employment
action was based in any way on…any protected complaints made.” (Mot. at p.
13:2-3.) Defendant asserts that “Plaintiff cannot contend that any conduct he
has suffered has been as a result of any protected complaint.” (Mot. at p.
18:9-10.)
Defendant asserts that “Plaintiff admits that he never filed any kind
of formal complaint with the Assessor’s office that he was being discriminated
against because of his age or race or ethnicity until he filed this case, in
2020.” (Mot. at p. 18:6-8.) Defendant cites to the following testimony from
Plaintiff’s deposition: “Q. When…did you file any kind of document with the
assessor’s office or with the County in which you say, ‘Hey, I’m being
discriminated against because of my age or race or ethnicity, and that’s why
I’m not being promoted’? When did you -- when did you let them know how you
felt in writing? A. When my attorney filed this case, 2020.” (Goldsmith Decl.,
¶ 3, Ex. Q (Gharibian Depo.) at
p. 56:17-24.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiff asserts that “the
County retaliated against Gharibian by denying his out of class assignment
after it was pending for four years...” (Opp’n at p. 15:19.) Plaintiff also
argues that he “suffered retaliation because he reported the hostile work
environment to his supervisors on a number of occasions. As noted above, he was
denied his out of class in 2019 after initiating a civil rights complaint with
the Assessor’s office.” (Opp’n at p. 17:7-9.) As an initial matter, it is
unclear what evidence Plaintiff is relying on in support of the argument that
Plaintiff “reported the hostile work environment to his supervisors on a number
of occasions.” (Opp’n at p. 17:7-8.) It is unclear what alleged hostile work
environment Plaintiff is referring to. 
Plaintiff also does not appear to cite any
evidence to support the argument that Plaintiff “was denied his out of class in
2019 after initiating a civil rights complaint with the Assessor’s office.”
(Opp’n at p. 17:8-9.) Plaintiff’s supporting declaration provides, inter
alia, that “I filed a County Policy of Equity Complaint (CPOE) on or about
September 28, 2017 CISU #2017-00508 with the County Intake Specialist Unit
regarding his out of class assignment because Ivory Johnson had not responded
to many of Plaintiff’s requests to find out what the status of his out of class.
[sic].” (Gharibian Decl., ¶ 16.) This statement is confusing, as it is unclear
whom Plaintiff is referring to when stating “his.” (Ibid.)
Moreover, to the extent this 2017 complaint is the “civil rights complaint” Plaintiff
is referring to in the opposition, Plaintiff does not appear to provide any “evidence
to support the position that the County retaliated against Plaintiff because of
any complaints he made by denying his out of class bonus.” (Reply at p.
9:16-17.) In addition, as discussed in connection with Defendant’s evidentiary
objections, Plaintiff does not appear to provide a copy of the subject September
28, 2017 complaint. It is thus unclear what such complaint states.  
As discussed, “in order to establish a prima facie case
of retaliation under the FEHA, a plaintiff must show (1) he or she engaged in a
‘protected activity,’ (2) the employer subjected the employee to an adverse
employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between the protected activity
and the employer’s action.” (Yanowitz v. L'Oreal USA, Inc., supra, at p.
1042.) It is unclear how Defendant purportedly subjected Plaintiff to an
adverse employment action here as a result of any protected activity engaged in
by Plaintiff. 
Based on the
foregoing, the Court finds that Defendant has demonstrated that the third
cause of action for retaliation is without merit, and that Plaintiff has failed
to raise a triable issue of material fact as to this cause of action.
E.     Second Cause of Action for Harassment 
Plaintiff’s second cause
of action is for harassment based on age. To establish a prima facie case for harassment, a plaintiff
must show that “(1) he [or she] was a member of a protected class; (2) he [or
she] was subjected to unwelcome [] harassment; (3) the harassment was based on
[membership in the protected class]; (4) the harassment unreasonably
interfered with his [or her] work performance by creating an intimidating,
hostile, or offensive work environment; and (5) the [employer] is liable for
the harassment.” (Thompson v. City of Monrovia (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 860, 876.)

Defendant
argues, inter alia, that Plaintiff “has not demonstrated that any of the ‘harassment’
of which he complains was based on any of Plaintiff’s protected statuses (i.e.,
his race or age).” (Mot. at p. 16:27-28.) Defendant
indicates that at his deposition, Plaintiff testified as follows: “Q….how did
she harass you? Let me ask you this: Did she ever call you at home and make fun
of you? A. I don’t believe that’s harassment. Harassment to me is when she does
-- she -- she impedes my progress. Harassment is when does not [sic] give me
the opportunity to learn the queries. Harassment is all this…” (Goldsmith
Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. Q (Gharibian
Depo.) at p. 158:6-13.) Plaintiff’s deposition testimony also provides as
follows: “Q. Well, how did she -- sir, you haven’t told me. How did she harass
you? A. So it’s not harassment when -- when the out of class -- out of class --
my out-of-class application was rejected after four and a half years and not
being told about it and being danced around with Ivory Johnson, Brian Zepeda
all the way to…assessor, Mr. Prang? That’s not?” (Id.
at p. 160:14-21.) 
In
the opposition, Plaintiff does not appear to address or dispute Defendant’s
assertion that “Plaintiff…cannot
demonstrate that any of the alleged harassment was as a result of any of
Plaintiff’s protected statuses (i.e., his race or his age).” (Mot. at p. 16:24-25.) Plaintiff’s opposition does not
appear to contain any discussion of the harassment cause of action.   
            Based on
the foregoing, the Court finds that Defendant has demonstrated that the second
cause of action for harassment is without merit, and that Plaintiff has failed
to raise a triable issue of material fact as to this cause of action.
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is
granted. The Court orders Defendant to file and serve a proposed judgment
within 10 days of the date of this Order.
Defendant is ordered to give notice of this
Order.¿ 
 
DATED:  September 6, 2024                   ________________________________
Hon.
Teresa A. Beaudet 
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


