  Case Number:  20STCV39584    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  50 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 
 



CRAIG L. DIXON, et
  al.
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
FREDERICK KENNETH KRAMER, a/k/a KEVIN DOSCH, et al.
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


  20STCV39584




Hearing Date:


September 6, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:  
 
DEFENDANT CYNTHIA BARRON’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE CROSS-COMPLAINT




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION


 



 
Background
Plaintiffs Craig
L. Dixon; Kathleen Gay Dixon; Craig L. Dixon, Kathleen Gay Dixon and Andrew
Dixon, Trustees of the Restated Dixon Family Trust U/D/O April 23, 2014; Azalea
Gardens; and Pioneer SG, LLC (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action on
October 13, 2020 against Defendants Frederick Kenneth Kramer, a/k/a Kevin Dosh,
Darren Kikuchi, Cynthia Barron, Joyce Cook, Betty Cannon, Tony Wim Struyk, Lee
Stein, and Oakcrest Manor SD, Inc. 
On May 24, 2021, Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”). The FAC alleges causes of action for (1) financial elder
abuse, (2) financial elder abuse, 
(3)
fraud/fraud in the inducement, (4) rescission, (5) fraud, (6) aiding and
abetting fraud, 
(7)
breach of fiduciary duty, (8) recovery pursuant to Civil
Code section 1692, (9) unjust enrichment, (10) unjust enrichment, (11)
breach of contract, (12) breach of fiduciary duty, 
(13)
conversion, (14) constructive fraudulent nondisclosure, (15) constructive
fraud, (16) an accounting, (17) intentional infliction of emotional distress,
(18) negligent infliction of emotional distress, (19) declaratory relief, and
(20) quiet title. 
On July 12, 2021, Frederick Kenneth Kramer filed a Cross-Complaint
against Craig Dixon; Craig L. Dixon, Kathleen Gay Dixon and Andrew Dixon,
Trustees of the Restated Dixon Family Trust U/D/O April 23, 2014; Azalea
Gardens; and Pioneer SG, LLC. The Cross-Complaint alleges nine causes of action.

            In the FAC, Plaintiffs allege, inter
alia, “[o]ver the years, [Craig Dixon] and Kramer had an oral agreement
where Kramer would manage the properties acquired by the Dixons, and also
managed the sales and acquisitions of properties for the Dixons and their
entities. In exchange, Kramer, often through his entities, would be paid
management fees from the sale of the properties.” (FAC, ¶ 21.) “Barron is
an assistant and was hired by Kramer as an alleged ‘asset manager.’ She is also
a licensed real estate agent in Nevada with license number BS.0185758.” (FAC, ¶
7.) 
            Plaintiffs allege that “[b]y
mid-2016, Plaintiffs, relying on Kramer’s advice, had the majority of their
assets invested in various real estate assets throughout Utah and California
and selected by Kramer. Plaintiffs believe that most, if not all, of those real
estate investments were organized and/or run by Kramer and that the other
partners were his associates, including Defendants Cynthia Barron, Darren
Kikuchi and Lee Stein, or members of his family.” (FAC, ¶ 29.) Plaintiffs
allege that “Defendants Barron and Cook handled certain tenants in commercial
and residential properties and represented themselves as property managers to
tenants. Plaintiffs are informed and believe that each of these Defendants were
paid massive ‘property management fees’ or, along with Defendant Stein, took
high commissions on nearly every real estate deal that Kramer persuaded
Plaintiffs to execute even though these transactions usually involved buying or
selling to co-Defendants or other related parties (almost always off market).”
(FAC, ¶ 30.)
            Plaintiffs allege that “[i]n late
2019, the Dixons, only through the help of their son and his wife, a licensed
real estate broker, obtained copies of the tax records and closing statements
of certain properties bought and sold by Plaintiffs upon the advice or demand
of Kramer…At that point, the Dixons learned for the first time that for nearly
every real estate transaction conducted by Kramer, he and Defendants Kikuchi,
Stein, Barron, Cook, Struyk and Does 1-20 were charging substantial management
fees to Plaintiffs, in addition to unsubstantiated fees to unrelated third
party companies run by Defendants…” (FAC, ¶ 56.) Plaintiffs allege that “[w]hile
Kramer was representing to the Dixons that certain real estate purchases were
just bad buys, or bad luck in a tough real estate market, Defendants were
actually bleeding Plaintiffs of every last cent through fraudulent commissions
and fees, or by selling a property at below market value to directly benefit
one of the Defendants or one of their family members or associate [sic].
Defendants Kramer, Stein, Kikuchi, Barron, Cook, Cannon, Struyk and Does 1-20
were actually draining Plaintiffs’ assets, all for their own personal benefit.”
(FAC, ¶ 56.)
            Plaintiffs further allege that “[a]s
licensed real estate agents supposedly acting on Plaintiffs’ behalf, Defendants
Stein and Barron owed Plaintiffs duties of loyalty, honesty, good-faith, fair
dealing, and a duty to exercise reasonable care and diligence in representing
Plaintiffs in various real estate transactions.” (FAC, ¶ 97.) Plaintiffs allege
that “[t]hrough their actions that were contrary to the interests of
Plaintiffs, including conducting transactions for which they had knowledge that
the market value of the properties being purchased by Plaintiffs were
artificially inflated, or conversely, if being sold by Plaintiffs, artificially
depressed, fraudulently misrepresenting the state of the properties,
authorizing unnecessary and grossly inflated commission fees to themselves and
other fees to other Defendants without disclosing such fees to Plaintiffs, and
in the case of Defendant Barron, opening up a bank account in order to
intentionally divert money away from Plaintiffs, Defendants Stein and Barron
violated these duties.” (FAC, ¶ 98.) Plaintiffs allege that “Defendants Kramer
and Barron intentionally unlawfully converted funds by directing substantial
amounts of rents and other payments made to Plaintiffs to accounts under the
control of Defendants Kramer, Barron and related entities.” (FAC, ¶ 130.) 
Cynthia Barron (“Barron”) now moves an order permitting the filing of cross-complaint
against Craig L. Dixon, Kathleen Gay Dixon, Azalea Gardens, and Pioneer SG,
LLC. Plaintiffs oppose. 
Discussion
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 428.50, subdivision (a), “[a] party shall file a
cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the complaint or
cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as the answer to
the complaint or cross-complaint.”
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 428.50, subdivision (b), “[a]ny other cross-complaint
may be filed at any time before the court has set a date for trial.”
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 428.50, subdivision (c), “[a] party shall obtain leave of
court to file any cross-complaint except one filed within the time specified in
subdivision (a) or (b). Leave may be granted in the interest of justice at any
time during the course of the action.” 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 426.50, “[a] party who fails to plead a cause of action subject to
the requirements of this article, whether through oversight, inadvertence,
mistake, neglect, or other cause, may apply to the court for leave to amend his
pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time during
the course of the action. The court, after notice to the adverse party, shall
grant, upon such terms as may be just to the parties, leave to amend the
pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who
failed to plead the cause acted in good faith. This subdivision shall be
liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of action.” Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 426.30, subdivision (a),
“[e]xcept as otherwise
provided by statute, if a party against whom a complaint has been filed and
served fails to allege in a cross-complaint any related cause of action which
(at the time of serving his answer to the complaint) he has against the
plaintiff, such party may not thereafter in any other action assert against the
plaintiff the related cause of action not pleaded.”  
“A policy of liberal
construction of¿¿section 426.50¿¿to avoid
forfeiture of causes of action is imposed on the trial¿court. A motion to file
a cross-complaint at any time during the course of the action must be granted
unless bad faith of the moving party is demonstrated where forfeiture would
otherwise result. Factors such as oversight, inadvertence, neglect, mistake or
other cause, are insufficient grounds to deny the motion unless accompanied by
bad faith.” (¿Silver Orgs. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 98-99¿.)
 
Barron’s counsel
attaches as Exhibit 1 to his declaration a copy of the proposed
cross-complaint. (Landay Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. 1.) The proposed cross-complaint is by
Cross-Complainant Barron against Cross-Defendants Craig L. Dixon,
Kathleen Gay Dixon, Azalea Gardens, and Pioneer SG, LLC. (Ibid.) The proposed cross-complaint alleges causes of action for (1) breach
of contract, (2) breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (3)
indemnification, and (4) declaratory relief. (Ibid.)

In the proposed cross-complaint, Barron alleges, inter alia,
that “she began working part-time for Kramer related to certain properties.
After 1999, she began working full-time for Monterey Business Center and Azalea
Gardens and eventually, a few years later, also worked for Pioneer SG in which
she understood Kramer and Dixons were partners and/or owners.” (Landay Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. 1, ¶ 11.) “Barron
worked with Kramer and the Dixons in connection with Azalea Gardens and Pioneer
SG until 2018. During this time, Barron performed a variety of duties for
Azalea Gardens and Pioneer SG including, but not limited to, managing the
office, paying bills, collecting rents, making deposits and managing bank
accounts related to the entities and their properties.” (Landay Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. 1, ¶ 12.) Barron alleges that “[d]ue to her
growing role and bank-specific duties in connection with Azalea Gardens and
then Pioneer SG, Barron sought a written agreement to protect her from
liability related to her role with the entities. As a result, on or about
January 15, 2010, and in exchange for Barron’s agreement to continue to work
for the entities, Defendants Craig and Kathleen Dixon entered into a hold
harmless agreement (‘Hold Harmless Agreement’) with Barron in which the Dixons
agreed to hold Barron harmless in connection with all of her activities dealing
with collecting and depositing money and bank accounts for Monterey Business
Center, Azalea Gardens, and Pioneer SG.” (Landay Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. 1, ¶ 14.)
Barron alleges in the proposed cross-complaint that “[u]ltimately, on
October 13, 2020, the Dixons, Azalea Gardens and Pioneer SG sued Barron in this
present litigation in connection with her work for Azalea Gardens and Pioneer
SG. As a result, she is subject to attorney’s fees and costs in defending the
lawsuit, among other damages and losses.” (Landay Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. 1, ¶ 15.) Barron alleges that she “is
entitled to the Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants’ performance under Hold Harmless
Agreement, dismissal of the claims against her, indemnification, and damages
for the costs and attorney’s fees she has already incurred and will continue to
incur in connection with this litigation.” (Landay Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. 1, ¶ 18.)
In the motion, Barron
asserts that “[t]he allegations against Cynthia Baron found in the First
Amended Complaint are grounded in the activities for which the Plaintiffs
agreed to hold Cynthia Baron harmless – namely, the handling of cash from
tenants and deposits and withdrawals from certain business accounts. Cynthia
Barron’s proposed Cross-Complaint seeks enforcement of the Hold Harmless
Agreement (i.e., dismissal of the First Amended Complaint against Ms. Barron)
and indemnification for costs and fees she has incurred to defend herself in
this action under the Hold Harmless Agreement.” (Mot. at p. 6:18-24.) Barron
asserts that her “causes of action for breach of contract, breach of the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, indemnification, and
declaratory relief are compulsory because the causes of action are related to
the subject matter of the First Amended Complaint.” (Mot. at p. 6:10-12, citing
Code Civ. Proc., § 426.30.) 
Barron also asserts that
“[t]here is no bad faith on [her] part in seeking leave to file her
cross-complaint. Cynthia Barron retained new counsel in January 2024 and
immediately demanded the performance of the Hold Harmless Agreement – which
they ignored.” (Mot. at p. 7:19-21.) On January 11, 2024, a Substitution of
Attorney was filed in this action indicating that Barron’s new legal
representative is John K. Landay of Landay Roberts LLP. In his declaration in
support of the instant motion, Mr. Landay states that on February 5, 2024, he
sent a letter “to Plaintiffs’ counsel, Jeremy Adamson, Esq. and Chad S.
Pehrson, Esq., demanding indemnification and performance under [the] hold
harmless agreement…To date, Plaintiffs’ counsel has not responded to this
letter.” (Landay Decl., ¶ 4.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiffs assert that ‘Ms. Barron asserts that her
cross-claims are compulsory. Belated pleading of compulsory cross-claims is
governed by Code of Civil Procedure § 426.50, which
provides for late pleading only upon a showing of “oversight, inadvertence,
mistake, neglect, or other cause.’ Ms. Barron does not even attempt to meet
this standard.” (Opp’n at p. 3:13-16.) In the reply, Barron counters that “Cynthia
Barron’s former counsel did not file a cross-complaint, and her current counsel
determined that the cross-complaint was necessary after Plaintiffs’ counsel
failed to respond to a demand letter sent immediately after Cynthia Barron’s
new counsel was retained. Cynthia Barron does not know why her former counsel
did not file a cross-complaint, but any such failure to do so would constitute ‘other
cause’ under the statute.” (Reply at p. 3:12-16.) 
 
In addition, on July 8, 2021, Barron filed an answer to the FAC in
this case. Barron notes that her answer includes, inter alia, an
eighteenth affirmative defense for “Release and Hold Harmless,” which alleges
that “Plaintiffs released and agreed to hold Defendant harmless from some
and/or of the causes of action alleged in the Complaint.” (Barron’s July 8,
2021 Answer, p. 34.) Plaintiffs argue in their opposition to the instant motion
that “Ms. Barron does not explain, anywhere in the Motion, why she waited until
less than six months before trial to restyle that affirmative defense into
multiple cross-claims.” (Opp’n at p. 3:18-19.) 
Plaintiffs contend that “the circumstances suggest the amendment is
sought in bad faith. The parties settled the case last year, the motion to
enforce the settlement agreement is pending, and Defendants appear to be doing
anything they can to cause the Dixons to incur unnecessary litigation expenses.
This is improper. If Ms. Barron believed she had cross-claims against
Plaintiffs, she was obligated to plead them in 2021: not on the eve of trial,
in a nearly four year-old case.” (Opp’n at pp. 3:28-4:5.) However, the Court
notes that Plaintiffs appear to be referring to a motion to enforce settlement
in a different “case in Utah.” (Opp’n at p. 2:23.) Moreover, Plaintiffs do not
appear to provide any evidence of a settlement. As noted by Barron, “Plaintiffs
do not argue that Cynthia Barron was a party to the purported settlement
agreement or that she has failed to perform any obligation under that
agreement.” (Reply at p. 4:10-11.) 
Moreover, in Silver Orgs. v. Frank, supra, 217 Cal.App.3d at page 100,
cited by Barron in the motion, the Court of Appeal noted that “[s]ubstantial
evidence of bad faith will obviously negate good faith, the latter being the
sine qua non to the granting of a section 426.50
motion. It is therefore necessary to examine the amorphous concept of bad
faith. Bad faith is defined as [t]he opposite of good faith, generally
implying or involving actual or constructive fraud, or a design to mislead or
deceive another, or a neglect or refusal to fulfill some duty or some
contractual obligation, not prompted by an honest mistake…but by some
interested or sinister motive[,]…not simply bad judgment or negligence, but
rather…the conscious doing of a wrong because of dishonest purpose or moral
obliquity;…it contemplates a state of mind affirmatively operating with furtive
design or ill will.” (Internal quotations omitted.) Here, the Court does not
find that Plaintiffs have shown Barron’s “conscious doing of a wrong because of
dishonest purpose or moral obliquity.” (Ibid.)
 
Plaintiffs also argue that “[i]f Ms. Barron is permitted to file the
Cross-Complaint, all parties will be prejudiced since the case is already
progressing through various aspects of litigation and is almost on the doorstep
of trial.” (Opp’n at p. 4:7-9.) Plaintiffs contend that “Ms. Barron seeks to
add additional claims while taking her own discovery, thereby squeezing
Plaintiffs on a discovery timeline. This is particularly true given that the
five-year rule, Code of Civil Procedure § 583.310,
looms. If Ms. Barron is permitted to amend her pleading to add cross-claims,
Plaintiffs will in practice have not had an opportunity to file a summary
judgment motion and will be limited to less than three months to litigate those
claims before trial.” (Opp’n at p. 4:13-18.) In the reply, Barron counters that
“[i]f there is any squeeze in the timeline for Plaintiffs, it is due to
Plaintiffs’ failure to conduct discovery prior to this point. Plaintiffs have
been aware of the issues here since Cynthia Barron’s answer was filed and, to
date, have not investigated the affirmative defense of indemnification.” (Reply
at p. 5:5-8.) 
Lastly, Plaintiffs argue that “the cross-claims in the proposed
cross-complaint are futile and pointless.” (Opp’n at p. 4:19.) However, as
noted by Barron in the motion, in Kittredge
Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989)
213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048, the Court of Appeal found that “even if
the proposed legal theory is a novel one, the preferable practice would be to
permit the amendment and allow the parties to test its legal sufficiency by
demurrer, motion for judgment on the pleadings or other appropriate proceedings.”
(Internal quotations omitted.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that the Barron has demonstrated
good cause to file the proposed cross-complaint.  
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Barron’s motion for leave to file a cross-complaint is granted. The
Court orders the Barron to file and serve the proposed
cross-complaint within 3 days of the date of this Order. 
///
///
Barron is ordered to give notice of this
Order. 
 
DATED:  September 6, 2024                   ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 