 Case Number:  22STCV33580    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 
 



CAROLYN TRACIE LOVE,
  individually and as trustee for Trashawn Tillet,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
LOS ANGELES COUNTY,
  DEPARTMENT OF THE CORONER, et
  al.
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV33580




Hearing Date:


September 6, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
DEFENDANT COUNTY
  OF LOS ANGELES’ MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS
 



            
Background
Plaintiff
Carolyn Tracie Love, individually and as trustee for Trashawn
Tillett filed this action on October 14, 2022 against Defendants Los Angeles
County, Department of the Coroner; Los Angeles City; Los Angeles Police
Department; and Los Angeles Fire Department. 
On May 17, 2024, Carolyn Tracie Love, an individual (“Love”), and on
behalf of Trashawn Alton Tillet (“Plaintiff”) filed the operative Fourth
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) in this action. The FAC alleges causes of action for[1] (1) failure to conduct a homicide investigation and wellness check,
(2) negligent investigation, (3) negligent investigation and failure to render
aid, (5) negligent hiring, (6) violation of California constitutional rights,
(7) violation of 42 U.S.C. § 1983, (8)
intentional and negligent infliction of emotional distress, (9) [untitled],
(10) constructive fraud – intentional misrepresentation – concealment, (11)
negligent investigation and failure to perform welfare check, (13) violation of
California’s Unruh Civil Rights Act, (14) “42. U.S.C. -
1083 – Monell Claim – failure to train,” and (15) violation of Government Code § 11135.
Defendant County of Los Angeles (the “County”) previously demurred to
the third, fifth, sixth, eighth, ninth, and tenth causes of action of the FAC. 
On July 12, 2024, the Court issued an Order providing, inter alia,
that “the Court sustains
the County’s demurrer to the third, fifth, sixth, eighth, ninth, and tenth
causes of action of the FAC as to the County and the ‘Department of the
Coroner,’ without leave to amend.” (Order at p. 21:4-6.) The July 12, 2024
Order further provides that “[a]s to the County, the Court notes that the
first, thirteenth, and fifteenth causes of action of the FAC do not appear to
specify which defendant(s) such causes of action are alleged against. The
County does not demur to these causes of action, and the County’s demurrer does
not appear to discuss them. In light of the foregoing, the Court orders the
County to file
and serve its answer to the FAC within 10 days of the date of this Order.”
(Order at pp. 21:21-22:2.) 
            The County now moves for judgment on the pleadings. The motion
is unopposed. 
Request for
Judicial Notice 
The Court grants the
County’s request for judicial notice. 
Discussion 
A.    Legal Standard 
A motion for judgment on
the pleadings has the same function as a general demurrer but is made after the
time for demurrer has expired. Except as provided by ¿Code
of Civil Procedure section 438¿, the rules governing demurrers apply. (¿Cloud
v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999¿.) A motion by a
defendant can be made on the ground that the complaint (or any cause of action
therein) “¿does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action
against that defendant.¿” (¿Code Civ. Proc., § 438,
subd. (c)(1)(B)(ii)¿.) Pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 438, subdivision (d), “[t]he grounds for motion
provided for in this section shall appear on the face of the challenged
pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take judicial
notice.” 
¿“¿To survive a
demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of
action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.¿” (¿C.A. v.
William S. Hart Union High School Dist.
(2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872¿.) For the purpose of testing the sufficiency
of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts
properly pleaded. (¿Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967¿.) A
demurrer “¿does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or
law.¿” (¿Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713¿.) 
B.     Allegations of the FAC
In the FAC, Plaintiff
alleges, inter alia, that on October 20, 2021, Plaintiff arrived at the
home of her son, Trashawn Alton Tillet (herein, the “Decedent”). (FAC, ¶ 1.)
Plaintiff alleges that the Decedent’s eyes were closed and that he did not
respond to his name. (FAC, ¶ 8.) Plaintiff alleges the Decedent had contusions
on “the right-side temple above his ear…” (FAC, ¶ 10.) Plaintiff alleges that
“[m]ultiple bottles of alcohol were everywhere in his living room as if there
had been a party,” and that “Plaintiff believes that the alcohol bottles were
staged and planted by a violent perpetrator to district attention from a crime
and crime scene.” (FAC, ¶¶ 5, 14.) Plaintiff alleges that paramedics arrived at
the apartment. (FAC, p. 7:5.) Plaintiff alleges that she “never observed either
paramedic deploy life saving measures.” (FAC, ¶ 48.) Plaintiff further alleges
that one paramedic said, “sorry he been dead for maybe a few days.” (FAC, ¶ 56.)
Plaintiff further alleges, inter alia, that “LAPD officers…never
thoroughly investigated…whether [the Decedent] was the victim of a homicide.” (FAC,
¶ 185.) 
In addition, Plaintiff
alleges that “there is substantial evidence that the coroner mixed up the
findings of a different deceased.” (FAC, ¶ 322.) Plaintiff further alleges that
“[it] appears that [the Decedent’s] body may have been cremated. Upon
information and belief, the coroner gave the funeral possession of the wrong
body.” (FAC, ¶ 386.)
 
 
C.    
First, Thirteenth, and
Fifteenth Causes of Action 
In the motion, the
County first asserts that “[a]lthough the Court, in its July 12, 2024 Order,
was unsure whether the First, Thirteenth, and Fifteenth Causes of Action were
asserted against the County, Plaintiff unequivocally stated that these same
claims were not asserted against the County, but only the City.” (Mot. at p.
4:15-18, emphasis omitted.) The County cites to Exhibit “C” to its request for
judicial notice, which is “Plaintiff’s Opposition to Los Angeles County
Demurrers [sic] to Plaintiff [sic] Third Amended Complaint…” (County’s RJN, ¶
3, Ex. C.) The County notes that this opposition provides, inter alia,
that “Causes of Action: 1-3, 6-13, 15-18, Belong to the City of Los Angeles and
Los Angeles City LAPD & LAFD. Causes of Action: 3, 5, 6-10 Belong to both
the City and County of Los Angeles. Causes of Action: 3, 5, 23-25. Belong to
the County of Los Angeles and Los Angeles County Coroner.” (County’s RJN, ¶ 3,
Ex. C, p. 89:11-16.) Love did not file any opposition to the motion and thus
does not address this point. However, the above-referenced opposition concerns
the County’s demurrer to the Third Amended Complaint (County’s RJN, ¶ 3, Ex.
C), and the operative pleading is the FAC. 
In any event, the County
argues that even if the first, thirteenth, and fifteenth causes of action were
asserted against the County, they nevertheless fail to state facts sufficient
to support a viable claim against the County. 
D.    First Cause of Action 
Plaintiff’s first cause of action for “failure to conduct a homicide
investigation and wellness check” alleges that “Defendants owed her a duty
pursuant to Government Code section 815.6,” and
that “Defendant breached that duty.” (FAC, ¶¶ 388-389.)
The County asserts that “Plaintiff’s first cause of action fails to
plead the requisite statutory provision imposing a mandatory duty on the County
for liability under California Government Code § 815.6.”
(Mot. at p. 9:24-26.) The County notes that “‘[a] public entity is not liable
for an injury,’ ‘[e]xcept as otherwise provided by statute.’ (Gov. Code, § 815.)…In other words, direct tort
liability of public entities must be based on a specific statute declaring them
to be liable, or at least creating some specific duty of care…” (Eastburn v. Regional Fire Protection Authority (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1175, 1183.) As
discussed, Plaintiff’s first cause of action alleges that “Defendants owed her
a duty pursuant to Government Code section 815.6,”
and that “Defendant breached that duty.” (FAC, ¶¶ 388-389.)
Government Code section 815.6 provides
that “[w]here a public entity is under a mandatory duty imposed by an enactment
that is designed to protect against the risk of a particular kind of injury,
the public entity is liable for an injury of that kind proximately caused by
its failure to discharge the duty unless the public entity establishes that it
exercised reasonable diligence to discharge the duty.” The County notes that
“[a] plaintiff seeking to hold a public entity liable under Government Code section 815.6 must specifically
identify the statute or regulation alleged to create a mandatory duty.” (In re Groundwater Cases (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 659, 689.) As noted by the County,
Plaintiff’s first cause of action does not appear to identify any specific
statute, enactment, or provision that Plaintiff claims imposed a mandatory duty
on the County. 
In light of the foregoing, the Court grants the County’s motion as to
the first cause of action of the FAC.  
E.     Thirteenth Cause of Action 
Plaintiff’s thirteenth
cause of action for violation of California’s Unruh Civil Rights Act alleges, inter
alia, that “Trashawn is a gay black man with HIV which
constitutes a disability that limits a major life activity.” (FAC, ¶ 444.)
Plaintiff alleges that “Defendant’s conduct violated the Unruh Civil Rights Act
by denying (or aiding or inciting the denial of) Trashawn’s rights to full and
equal use of the accommodations, advantages, facilities, privileges, or
services Defendant’s [sic] offers to patients by denying Trashawn adequate care
based on his disability.” (FAC, ¶ 445.) 
In the motion, the County asserts that “Plaintiff’s thirteenth cause
of action fails to state a claim because the County is not a ‘business
establishment’ within the meaning of the statute.” (Mot. at p. 11:10-11.) The
County cites to Civil Code section 51, subdivision
(b), which provides that “[a]ll persons within the jurisdiction of this
state are free and equal, and no matter what their sex, race, color, religion,
ancestry, national origin, disability, medical condition, genetic information,
marital status, sexual orientation, citizenship, primary language, or
immigration status are entitled to the full and equal accommodations,
advantages, facilities, privileges, or services in all business establishments
of every kind whatsoever.”
In Brennon B. v. Superior Court (2022) 13 Cal.5th 662, 678, cited
by the County, the California Supreme Court noted that “[w]e have previously
explained that the Unruh Civil Rights Act applies only where an entity’s
activities reasonably could be found to constitute a business
establishment. Nothing suggests that the term all business establishments of
every kind whatsoever was intended to encompass all of the entities
or activities listed in the initial bill. While the phrase all business
establishments of every kind whatsoever must be interpreted as broadly as
reasonably possible, its scope remains limited to entities acting as private
business establishments.” (Internal quotations, citations, and emphasis
omitted.) The Brennon B. Court found that “[t]he question before us is
whether a plaintiff who asserts such claims can hold a public school district
liable under the [Unruh Civil Rights Act] and thus avail him- or herself of the
enhanced remedies—particularly statutory penalties and attorney fees—it makes
available. For the reasons set forth below, we hold that Unruh Civil Rights Act
liability is not available in such circumstances.” (Id.
at p. 668.) 
The County asserts that it “is a public entity, not a ‘private
business establishment,’ and therefore, as a matter of law, Civil Code § 51 is not applicable to it.” (Mot. at p.
11:19-20.) 
Love does not oppose the motion and
thus does not address this point.
Based on the foregoing,
the Court finds that the County has demonstrated that Plaintiff’s thirteenth
cause of action fails to state a claim as to the County. Thus, the Court
grants the County’s motion as to the thirteenth cause of action of the
FAC.  
F.     Fifteenth Cause of Action
Plaintiffs’ fifteenth cause of action is for violation of Government Code section 11135. 
Government Code section 11135, subdivision (a) provides that “[n]o person in the State of
California shall, on the basis of sex, race, color, religion, ancestry,
national origin, ethnic group identification, age, mental disability, physical
disability, medical condition, genetic information, marital status, or sexual
orientation, be unlawfully denied full and equal access to the benefits of, or
be unlawfully subjected to discrimination under, any program or activity that
is conducted, operated, or administered by the state or by any state agency, is
funded directly by the state, or receives any financial assistance from the
state. Notwithstanding Section 11000, this section
applies to the California State University.” 
            In the FAC, Plaintiff alleges that “Defendant’s
conduct denied Trashawn full and equal access to the services, programs, and
activities offered by Defendant to patients at Defendant’s [sic] in violation
of Cal. Gov’t Code Section 11135.” (FAC, ¶ 456.)
Plaintiff further alleges that “Defendant’s conduct also denied Carolyn, who is
‘associated with’ Trashawn under the meaning of the statute by virtue of the
fact that she is the mother of Trashawn, a qualified individual with a
disability within the meaning of Section 11135(c)(1),
full and equal access to the services, programs, and activities offered by
Defendant in violation of Section 11135.” (FAC, ¶
457.) 
            In the motion, the County notes that
“Plaintiff’s claim contains no factual allegations as to which state funded
programs or services she alleges she was personally denied access to as a
result of her ‘association’ with Decedent, or how she was denied access by
virtue of the County’s alleged conduct in this incident.” (Mot. at p. 12:10-13.)
The County also notes that “to the extent Plaintiff is attempting to assert
this claim on behalf of Decedent and any alleged denial of access to him of
state funded programs or services, it fails for the same reasons above –
namely, there are no factual allegations plead as to which state funded
programs or services Plaintiff alleges Decedent was denied access to, or how he
was denied access by virtue of the County’s alleged conduct in this incident.”
(Mot. at p. 12:21-25.)
The County notes that “because under the Tort Claims Act all
governmental tort liability is based on statute, the general rule that
statutory causes of action must be pleaded with particularity is applicable.
Thus, to state a cause of action against a public entity, every fact material
to the existence of its statutory liability must be pleaded with particularity.”
(Lopez v. Southern Cal. Rapid Transit Dist. (1985) 40 Cal.3d 780, 795 [internal
quotations omitted].) The County asserts that “Plaintiff’s failure
to set forth any factual details as to this claim renders it subject to
dismissal for failure to state sufficient facts to assert a claim.” (Mot. at p.
12:18-20.)
Love did not file any opposition to the
motion and thus does not address this point. 
Based on the foregoing,
the Court finds that the County has demonstrated that Plaintiff’s fifteenth
cause of action fails to state a claim as to the County. Thus, the Court
grants the County’s motion as to the fifteenth cause of action of the
FAC.  
G.    First, Thirteenth,
and Fifteenth Causes of Action as to the Decedent 
The County also asserts that “to the extent the first, thirteenth, and
fifteenth causes of action are being asserted by Plaintiff on Decedent’s
behalf, they fail against the County.” (Mot. at p. 13:19-20.) As noted by the
County, the FAC alleges that “Plaintiff CAROLYN TRACIE LOVE, an individual, and
on behalf of TRASHAWN ALTON TILLETT, her deceased son by and her attorney [sic]
alleges as follows against Defendants Los Angeles County Coroner’s, Los Angeles
City Fire Dept, Los Angeles City Police Dept does 1 to 10.” (FAC, p. 1:22-26.) 
The County cites to People v. Runyan (2012) 54 Cal.4th 849, 861-862,
where the California Supreme Court noted that “[n]o civil claim can be
asserted, on a decedent’s personal behalf, for injury or damage to the decedent
that occurs, or accrues, after the decedent has died. The governing statutes
recognize two, and only two, mutually exclusive types of actions that may be
brought, or maintained, in consequence of a person’s death. First, a cause of
action in favor of a person survives the person’s death, and may be commenced,
or continued, by the decedent’s personal representative, or, if none, by the
decedent’s successor in interest. However, the damages recoverable in such an
action are limited to the loss or damage that the decedent sustained or
incurred before death…Second, specified persons who survive the decedent,
or the decedent’s personal representative acting in their behalf, may
sue for a person’s wrongful death.” (Internal quotations, citations, and
emphasis omitted.)  
The County asserts that “[h]ere, the factual basis of the County’s
wrongdoing, as alleged in the Fourth Amended Complaint, relates solely to
conduct occurring after Decedent’s death – namely, the purported negligent
investigation of Decedent’s cause of death and the mishandling of his remains...”
(Mot. at p. 14:5-8, emphasis omitted, citing FAC, ¶¶ 196-208.) The County asserts
that “[b]ecause there are no allegations against the County relating to conduct
occurring before Decedent’s death, no claim accrued as to Decedent against the
County before his death and each of the claims asserted on his behalf as to the
County are properly dismissed.” (Mot. at p. 14:13-16, emphasis omitted.) Love
does not oppose the motion and thus does not dispute this point. 
The County also asserts that “Plaintiff, who is not an attorney,
cannot represent the interests of Decedent’s estate proceeding pro se.” (Mot.
at p. 14:23-24.) The caption page of the FAC lists “Carolyn Tracie Love” above “Attorneys
for CAROLYN TRACIE LOVE, (pro per) Individually.” (FAC, p. 2.) However, as
discussed, the FAC also alleges, inter alia, that “Plaintiff CAROLYN
TRACIE LOVE, an individual, and on behalf of TRASHAWN ALTON TILLETT, her
deceased son by and her [sic] attorney alleges as follows against
Defendants Los Angeles County Coroner’s, Los Angeles City Fire Dept, Los
Angeles City Police Dept does 1 to 10.” (FAC, p. 1:22-26, emphasis added.) Love
does not oppose the motion and thus does not indicate that she has obtained an
attorney. The County cites to Hansen v. Hansen (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th
618, 621, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “[a] person
who is unlicensed to practice law and who represents a decedent’s estate cannot
appear in propria persona on behalf of the estate in matters outside the
probate proceedings. Since the passage of the State
Bar Act in 1927, persons may represent their own interests in legal
proceedings, but may not represent the interests of another unless they are
active members of the State Bar.” (Internal citations omitted.) 
Accordingly, in
light of the foregoing, the Court grants the County’s motion as to the first,
thirteenth, and fifteenth causes of action of the FAC, to the extent these
causes of action are alleged by Plaintiff on behalf of the Decedent. 
 
H.    Claims Against the
“Department of the Coroner” 
Lastly, the County asserts that “[i]n the Fourth Amended Complaint, it
is still unclear whether Plaintiff is separately naming the “Department of the
Coroner” as a defendant as to the remaining claims.” (Mot. at p. 15:1-2.) The
Court agrees that this is unclear, as the caption page of the FAC lists, inter
alia, “Los Angeles County, Department of the Coroner.”
The County asserts that “[t]he naming of the County as a defendant in
this action renders unnecessary and superfluous the naming of the Department of
Medical Examiner-Coroner, which is merely a subdivision of the County.” (Mot.
at p. 15:2-4.) The County cites to City of Tracy v. Cohen (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 852, footnote 1, where the Court of Appeal
noted that “[w]e again adjust the
appellate title in one of these appeals, putting the official capacity cart
(‘Successor Agency, etc.’) back behind the party name horse (‘City of Tracy’),
and deleting the Department of Finance as a party, a redundant defendant.”
Love did not file any opposition to
the motion and thus does not address this point. 
In light of the foregoing, the Court grants the County’s motion as to the first,
thirteenth, and fifteenth causes of action of the FAC against the “Department
of the Coroner,” to the extent these causes of action are alleged against any
purported separate entity named “Department of the Coroner.” 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing,
the Court grants the County’s motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the
first, thirteenth, and fifteenth causes of action of the FAC as to the County
and the “Department of the Coroner.” The Court also grants the County’s
motion as to the first, thirteenth, and fifteenth causes of action of the FAC,
to the extent these causes of action are alleged by Plaintiff on behalf of the
Decedent. Love has not proffered any basis for any amendment to cure the foregoing
deficiencies. Accordingly, the Court finds that it is appropriate to grant the
County’s motion without leave to amend.¿ 
            In light of the foregoing, the Court orders
the County to file and serve a proposed judgment of dismissal within 30 days of
the date of this Order. 
The County is ordered to
give notice of this Order.  
 
DATED:  September 6, 2024                   ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 
 
 
 


