  Case Number:  22STCV35268    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



IBIERE N. SECK, et al., 
 
                                  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
BRIAN T. DUNN, A PROFESSIONAL LAW
  CORPORATION,
 
                                  Defendant.
 


 Case No: 
  22STCV35268
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  November 5, 2024
 Calendar Number:  10



 
 
 
Plaintiffs and Cross-Defendants Ibiere N. Seck (“Seck”) and
Seck Law, P.C. (“Seck Law”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) demur to the second
and third claims in the Second Amended Cross-Complaint (“SACC”) filed by
Cross-Complainants Dunn Law P.C., d/b/a the Cochran Firm (the “Cochran Firm”)
and Brian T. Dunn (collectively, “Cross-Complainants”).
 
The Court OVERRULES the demurrer.
 
Background
 
This case relates to a dispute over a fee sharing agreement
between attorneys.
 
Seck is an individual lawyer previously employed by the
Cochran Firm. Her law firm, Seck Law, and her previous employer, the Cochran
Firm, entered into an agreement on October 29, 2019 with respect to the end of
Seck’s employment with the Cochran Firm and how compensation would be handled
for cases that Seck worked on prior to her departure  (the “Agreement”). 
 
Plaintiffs’ complaint alleges the following. One of the
matters covered under the Agreement was John Doe v. The Rock Corona, et al.
(Case No. RIC 1901347) (the “Doe Matter”). Under the Agreement, the Cochran
Firm is entitled to a specified percentage of the net attorney’s fees for the
Doe Matter. On May 20, 2021, the Doe Matter settled. The net attorney’s fees
from the settlement were to be divided evenly between Plaintiffs and another
law firm called Taylor & King, which was Plaintiffs’ co-counsel. The attorney’s
fees necessary to satisfy Plaintiffs’ obligation to the Cochran Firm were
supposed to come out of Plaintiffs’ portion of the fees. The Cochran Firm had
previously placed a lien on the Doe Matter, and Plaintiffs therefore asked Defendant
to approve a distribution of the attorney’s fees so that Taylor & King
could distribute the fees to Plaintiffs and the Cochran Firm. The Cochran Firm refused
to approve the distribution.
 
Cross-Complainants allege the following in the FACC. Seck
falsely told Dunn, the Cochran Firm’s managing partner, that she had been close
personal friend of the family members of the plaintiff in the Doe Matter since
before the events giving rise to the Doe Matter occurred. Seck told Dunn that
the Doe plaintiff had chosen to follow her to her new law firm, Seck Law. In
truth, Seck had not known the Doe plaintiff or his family until the Doe
plaintiff reached out to the Cochran Firm through their telephone hotline. The
Cochran Firm relied on Seck’s false representation and therefore received a
smaller share of the attorney’s fees from the Doe Matter than it would
otherwise have received. Also, Seck associated in Taylor & King on the Doe
Matter during her employment at the Cochran Firm in violation of the Cochran
Firm’s policies.
 
For the purposes of this demurrer, the Court accepts the
allegations in the Cross-Complaint as true.
 
Plaintiffs filed this action on November 3, 2022, raising
claims for (1) breach of contract; and (2) declaratory relief.
 
Cross-Complainants filed a Cross-Complaint on April 25,
2024. Cross-Complainants filed the First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”), on
April 29, 2024, raising claims for (1) fraud; (2) conversion; (3) intentional
interference with prospective economic advantage; (4) negligent interference
with prospective economic advantage; (5) breach of fiduciary duty; and (6)
unjust enrichment.
 
On July 16, 2024, the Court sustained Plaintiffs’ demurrer
to the entire FACC. The Court denied leave to amend as to the fifth claim for
breach of fiduciary duty. The Court granted leave to amend as to the remaining
claims.
 
On July 30, 2024, the Court denied Plaintiffs’ motion for
summary judgment as to the Complaint.
 
On July 31, 2024, Cross-Complainants filed the SACC. The
SACC raises claims for (1) fraud; (2) intentional interference with prospective
economic advantage; and (3) negligent interference with prospective economic
advantage.
 
On September 3, 2024, Plaintiffs demurred to the first and
second claims in the SACC. Cross-Complainants filed an opposition and
Plaintiffs filed a reply.
 
Legal Standard
 
As a general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins.
Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading
alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants,
Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) The court assumes the truth
of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The only issue a demurrer is
concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of
action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
 
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335,
348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Ibid.;
Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f
there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause
of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist.
(1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).
 
Discussion
 
Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage – Second Claim
 
The elements of a claim for
intentional interference with prospective economic advantage include “(1) an
economic relationship between the plaintiff and some third party, with the
probability of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant’s
knowledge of the relationship; (3) intentional or negligent acts on the part of
the defendant designed to disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption of
the relationship; and (5) economic harm to the plaintiff proximately caused by
the acts of the defendant.” (Crown
Imports, LLC v. Superior Court (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1395, 1404 [citations,
brackets, and quotation marks omitted].) Further, “the alleged interference
must have been wrongful by some measure beyond the fact of the interference
itself. For an act to be sufficiently independently wrongful, it must be
unlawful, that is, it is proscribed by some constitutional, statutory,
regulatory, common law, or other determinable legal standard.” (Ibid. [citation,
ellipsis, and quotation marks omitted].)
 
“[A] client has an
absolute right to substitute one attorney for another for any reason …; it is
immaterial that such a substitution will work to the purported detriment of the
original attorney.” (Kallen v. Delug (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 940, 950.)
And “[u]nder the privilege of free competition, a competitor is free to divert
business to himself as long as he uses fair and reasonable means.” (Tri-Growth
Centre City, Ltd. v. Silldorf, Burdman, Duignan & Eisenberg (1989) 216
Cal.App.3d 1139, 1153.) “[T]he competition privilege is defeated only where the
defendant engages in unlawful or illegitimate means.” (San Francisco Design Center Associates v. Portman Companies (1995)
41 Cal.App.4th 29, 42.)

 
In sustaining Plaintiffs’ demurrer to the FACC, the Court
previously found that Cross-Complainants had not alleged causation because they
had not explained how the alleged representations that Seck was a close friend
of the Doe plaintiff’s family let to the disruption of Cross-Complainants’
opportunity to represent the Doe plaintiff. The same was true for the
allegations that Seck associated with Taylor & King on the Doe Matter
before leaving Dunn Law – Cross Complainants did not explain how this disrupted
the relationship.
 
In denying Plaintiffs’ summary judgment motion, the Court
found that Defendant had raised a triable issue of fact that Seck had
fraudulently induced the Cochran Firm to enter the Agreement. The Court stated
that:
 
The
Cochran Firm has provided evidence supporting its claim that Seck falsely
represented that she had a preexisting relationship with the Doe plaintiff’s
family. Defendant has provided evidence that, relying on these representations,
Dunn did not attempt to retain the Doe plaintiff as he would have in the
absence of such a preexisting relationship. The Cochran Firm has also provided
evidence that Plaintiff concealed the retention of Taylor & Ring from the
Cochran Firm, and that Dunn would not have considered the Doe Case appropriate
for mediation if he had known that Plaintiff had agreed to a 50 percent split
of fees with Taylor & Ring. Finally, the fact that the Doe Case had a much
smaller allocation for the Cochran Firm than any of the other cases handled at
the mediation provides evidence that the Cochran Firm suffered a pay cut as a
result of its reliance on the representations that Seck made. The Cochran Firm
has therefore supported the existence of a triable issue of fact that Seck
fraudulently induced it to enter into the Agreement.
 
(July 30, 2024 Minute Order at p.
7.)
 
            Cross-Complainants
have now incorporated these facts into the SACC.
 
While the alleged fact that Seck misrepresented both her
relationship with the Doe family and the association of Taylor & Ring to
the Cochran Firm could reasonably give rise to an inference that the Cochran
Firm was deceived into entering a settlement agreement that gave the Cochran
firm only a 7 percent share of the fee, the formation of the Agreement was a
separate occurrence from the Doe plaintiff’s decision to retain Plaintiffs. It
does not necessarily follow that the Doe plaintiff’s decision to retain Plaintiffs,
and not the Cochran Firm, was also wrongfully procured as a result of those
same representations. An interference claim requires “intentional or negligent
acts on the part of the defendant designed to disrupt the relationship”.
(Crown Imports, LLC v. Superior Court, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at p. 1404
[emphasis added].) These claims thus require a separate analysis from the
contract analysis.
 
Cross-Complainants allege that Dunn and Marcelis Morris, two
more senior attorneys at the firm, would have made aggressive attempts to
ingratiate themselves with the Doe family, including by telling the Doe family
that that Cochran Firm had greater experience and competence, if they had not
believed that Seck had a preexisting relationship with the Doe family. Cross-Complainants
allege that this “likely would have swayed the Doe Family to stay with the
Cochran Firm.” (SACC ¶ 25.)
 
Plaintiffs argue that the SACC merely alleges that the
relationship between the Cochran Firm and the Doe family was not improved
– not that the relationship was disrupted. However, this distinction appears to
lack a difference when taken in the full context of the SACC’s allegations. The
SACC alleges that, because the other lawyers at the Cochran Firm did not
attempt to ingratiate themselves with the Doe family, the Doe family was less
likely to stay with the Cochran Firm – and, in fact, did not do so. In other
words, the relationship was disrupted.  The Court concludes that, at the pleading
stage, this is sufficient.
 
The Court therefore overrules the demurrer.
 
Negligent Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage – Third Claim
 
“The elements of negligent
interference with prospective economic advantage are (1) the existence of an
economic relationship between the plaintiff and a third party containing the
probability of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant’s
knowledge of the relationship; (3) the defendant’s knowledge (actual or
construed) that the relationship would be disrupted if the defendant failed to
act with reasonable care; (4) the defendant’s failure to act with reasonable
care; (5) actual disruption of the relationship; and (6) economic harm
proximately caused by the defendant’s negligence.” (Redfearn v. Trader Joe’s Co. (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 989, 1005.)

 
Plaintiffs do not make arguments against this claim separate
from her arguments against the intentional interference claim.
 
For the same reasons the Court overrules the demurrer to the
intentional interference claim, the Court overrules the demurrer to this claim.