 Case Number:  BC624838    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DR. LAUREN PINTER-BROWN, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA AT LOS
  ANGELES, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  BC624838
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  November 5, 2024
 Calendar Number:  9



 
 
 
Plaintiff Dr. Lauren Pinter-Brown moves for an award of
attorney’s fees against Defendant The Regents of the University of California
(the “Regents”).
 
The Court rules below on the reasonableness of the requested
hourly fees and the time expended.  The
Court also CONTINUES the motion so that (1) the parties may agree on a
mathematical calculation of the approved fees in light of the order below; and
(2) the parties may file short additional briefs on any disagreement about the
calculation and the amount of a multiplier, if any, that should be applied to
the fees awarded.  The Court will discuss
the continued hearing date and briefing schedule at the hearing.
 
As explained more fully below, the Court makes the following
adjustments in the fees requested by Plaintiff. 
The revised calculations to be submitted with the further briefing shall
make all the following adjustments:
 
1.     
Use the original hourly rates requested after the first
trial for the work done in connection with Pinter-Brown I.
2.     
According to the reductions specified by Plaintiff in
her Reply brief relating to Mr. Shegerian’s client meetings, Mr. Shegerian
spent 413.6 hours meeting with Plaintiff. 
The Court reduces the time spent on this task by 213.6 hours, leaving a
total of 200 hours that the Court deems reasonable.
3.     
Reduce Mr. Shegerian’s time for reviewing the case file
in connection with the appeal by 19 hours.
4.     
Reduce Mr. Shegerian’s time for working on discovery
responses and pleadings by 40 hours.
5.     
Remove all of Mr. Haltman’s hours.
6.     
Reduce Mr. Reed’s pretrial hours by 12.
7.     
Reduce Mr. Reed’s trial hours by 117.
8.     
Reduce Ms. McDonnell’s hours by 10.9.
 
The parties shall meet and confer to ensure that they
accurately calculate the approved fees in connection with the reductions
specified above.  If there remain any
disagreements, the parties may address them in the five-page brief described
below.
 
The Court also requests that the parties provide any further
argument that they believe will be helpful in determining the proper level for
the lodestar multiplier, if any, in light of the updated calculation of fees.
The Court requests that Plaintiff and the Regents each file a supplemental
brief of no more than 5 pages, on this issue only, according to the schedule
that the Court will decide in consultation with the parties at the hearing.
 
Background
 
This is an employment discrimination action. This case has
now proceeded to trial twice: once in 2018, and once in 2024, following an
appeal and remand. For simplicity, the Court refers to the duration of this
case leading up to the appeal as “Pinter-Brown I” and to the duration
following the appeal as “Pinter-Brown II.”
 
Plaintiff filed this action on June 22, 2016 against
Defendants the Regents and Dr. Sven de Vos (“Dr. de Vos”), raising a number of
claims related to her employment at UCLA. Plaintiff subsequently dismissed Dr. de
Vos as a defendant, as well as her claims for intentional infliction of
emotional distress and violation of the Equal Pay Act.
 
On August 17, 2017, the Court granted the Regents’ motion
for summary adjudication in part and denied it in part. Summary adjudication
was granted as to Plaintiff’s claims for harassment based on gender,
retaliation under FEHA, retaliation under Labor Code, section 1102.5, and
harassment based on age.
 
Trial in Pinter-Brown I commenced on January 29, 2018.
The Court allowed Plaintiff to revive her FEHA retaliation claim. Plaintiff
voluntarily dismissed her age harassment claim on February 14, 2018. On
February 15, 2018, the jury found in favor of Plaintiff on her gender
discrimination and FEHA retaliation claims. The jury found in favor of the
Regents on Plaintiff’s age discrimination claim.
 
Plaintiff filed a motion for attorney’s fees in Pinter-Brown
I, which the Court granted.
 
The Regents appealed the judgment in Pinter-Brown I.
The Court of Appeal reversed.  The Court
of Appeal based its reversal on issues relating to the trial court’s opening
speech to the jury panel, the trial court’s decision to allow Plaintiff to
revive her FEHA retaliation claim, and introduction of inadmissible evidence at
trial. Much of the evidence that the Court of Appeal found inadmissible was “me
too” evidence offered to prove discriminatory motive. The Court of Appeal’s
ruling remanded Plaintiff’s gender discrimination claim for re-trial.
 
Following remand, Plaintiff sought and obtained substantial
additional discovery, some of which required motion practice. This included taking
13 depositions, as well as propounding interrogatories, requests for
production, and requests for admission.
 
            Trial
in Pinter-Brown II commenced on March 18, 2024. 
 
On May 9, 2024, Plaintiff obtained a jury verdict finding
that the Regents constructively discharged Plaintiff, motivated in substantial
part by her gender. The jury awarded $14,000,000.00 in damages. The Court
entered judgment in favor of Plaintiff on May 28, 2024.
 
Plaintiff filed this motion for attorney’s fees on September
16, 2024. The Regents filed an opposition and Plaintiff filed a reply.
Plaintiff’s reply included new evidence and objections to evidence submitted in
the opposition. The Regents filed a sur-reply brief responding to Plaintiff’s
objections. The Regents objected to Plaintiff’s evidence submitted with the
reply.
 
Requests for Judicial Notice
 
The Court grants the parties’ requests for judicial notice
and takes notice of the submitted public records.
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
Plaintiff objects at length to the declaration of Grant
Stiefel submitted in support of the Regents’ opposition. The Regents similarly object
to Plaintiff’s evidence submitted in support of her reply brief.
 
Without ruling on each objection, the Court notes that the
challenged materials do not affect the Court’s rulings. 
 
As to the issue of reasonableness of Plaintiff’s attorney’s
hourly rates, the Court finds that Plaintiff has shown that the rates are
reasonable even in the absence of the judicially noticed court records
submitted with her reply – records which total over 1,500 pages.
 
As to the issues surrounding the Stiefel declaration, the
Court has considered the Stiefl testimony, but it does not affect the outcome
of the Court’s decision.  “The value of
legal services performed in a case is a matter in which the trial court has its
own expertise. [Citation.] The trial court may make its own determination of
the value of the services contrary to, or without the necessity for, expert
testimony. (Melnyk v. Robledo (1976) 64 Cal.App.3d 618, 623.)
 
The Court does not find the substance of the Stiefel
testimony persuasive.  Stiefel’s
expertise in legal fees appears to be based in his litigation experience of
roughly ten years (Stiefel Decl. ¶¶ 29-33), combined with his subsequent time
acting as a consultant on legal fees. (Stiefel Decl. ¶¶ 5-6, 24-25.) But the
Court has its own ability to judge rates and hours expended.  
 
Furthermore, the Court notes that Stiefel’s declaration,
which is 38 pages long, contains frequent legal arguments and citations to
legal authority that are not proper in a witness declaration. The Regents
argues that Stiefel “simply identifies problematic time entries submitted by
Plaintiff, and as part of his expertise, he explains why such entries are
unreasonable within the context of applicable case law, which necessarily
includes citation to, and explanation of case law.” (Regents’ Response to Objections
at pp. 2:26-3:2.) The conduct that the Regents has described – identifying
facts and explaining why applicable case law merits a certain conclusion based
on those facts – is the essence of legal argument.  In this regard, the Court has considered the
arguments made by the Regents in its legal brief rather than any arguments made
by Stiefl in the declaration.
 
Legal Standard
 
Government Code, section 12965, subd. (b)(6) provides that
the Court may award attorneys fees to a prevailing plaintiff in a FEHA action.
(Gov. Code, § 12965, subd. (b)(6).)
 
The court’s discretion to award fees and set the fee amount must
be exercised “in a manner that, in the judgment of the court, will best
effectuate the purposes of FEHA”. (Horsford v. Board of Trustees of
California State University (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 359, 394
[emphasis removed].) “‘The basic, underlying purpose of FEHA is to safeguard
the right of Californians to seek, obtain, and hold employment without
experiencing discrimination’ on account of, inter alia, race or color. [Citation.]
‘“Without some mechanism authorizing the award of attorney fees, private
actions to enforce such important public policies will as a practical matter
frequently be infeasible.” ‘[Citation.] The award of reasonable attorney fees
accomplishes ‘the Legislature’s expressly stated purpose of FEHA “to provide
effective remedies that will eliminate these discriminatory practices.” [’]” (Ibid.)
 
The goal of a FEHA fee award “is to fix a fee at the fair
market value for the particular action.” (Ketchum v. Moses (2001) 24
Cal.4th 1122, 1132.) “[F]ee awards should be fully compensatory.” (Id.
at p. 1133.) “‘[A]bsent circumstances rendering the award unjust, an attorney
fee award should ordinarily include compensation for all the hours reasonably
spent’ in litigating the action to a successful conclusion. [Citation.]
‘Reasonably spent’ means that time spent ‘in the form of inefficient or
duplicative efforts is not subject to compensation.’” (Horsford v. Board of
Trustees of California State University, supra, 132 Cal.App.4th
at p. 394 [emphasis in original], quoting Ketchum v. Moses, supra,
24 Cal.4th at pp. 1132-1133.)
 
“[A] court assessing attorney fees begins with a touchstone
or lodestar figure, based on the ‘careful compilation of the time spent and
reasonable hourly compensation of each attorney … involved in the presentation
of the case.’ [Citation.]” (Ketchum, supra, 24 Cal.4th
at pp. 1131-1132.) “[T]he lodestar is the basic fee for comparable legal
services in the community; it may be adjusted by the court based on factors
including, as relevant herein, (1) the novelty and difficulty of the questions
involved, (2) the skill displayed in presenting them, (3) the extent to which
the nature of the litigation precluded other employment by the attorneys, (4)
the contingent nature of the fee award.” (Id. at p. 1132.) “The purpose
of such adjustment is to fix a fee at the fair market value for the particular
action. In effect, the court determines, retrospectively, whether the
litigation involved a contingent risk or required extraordinary legal skill
justifying augmentation of the unadorned lodestar in order to approximate the
fair market rate for such services.” (Ibid.”)
 
Discussion
 
As the prevailing party, Plaintiff is entitled to recover
her reasonable attorney’s fees.
 
Hourly Rates
 
Current Rates
 
The hourly rates requested should be “within the range of reasonable
rates charged by and judicially awarded comparable attorneys for comparable
work.” (Children’s Hosp. and Medical Center v. Bonta (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th
740, 782.)
 
Plaintiff has provided a chart of the attorneys who have
worked on her case during its eight-year lifespan, along with their hourly
rate, hours worked, and year admitted to the bar. (Motion at p. 13.) For the
purposes of comparison, Plaintiff also provides a chart of various rates
charged by other Los Angeles employment attorneys with comparable experience
and skill. (Motion at pp. 10:21-11:16; see generally Plaintiff’s First Request
for Judicial Notice, Exs. 1-6 [declarations submitted by Los Angeles attorneys
in other cases evidencing their hourly rates].)
 
Plaintiff provides evidence that courts have approved
comparable rates for her highest-billing attorneys. (Shegerian Decl. ¶ 7;
Nguyen Decl. ¶ 9; Reed Decl. ¶ 25; Madjidi Decl.; Lim Decl. ¶ 3; David Decl. ¶
3; Dibona Decl. ¶ 8; Prainito Decl. ¶¶ 4-5.) While the Regents argues that some
of the rates now seeks are in excess of those previously approved (usually to
the tune of $50 on a $700-$1,400 rate), the Court finds that this increase is
reasonable given that nearly a year has passed since the most recent court
approvals listed.
 
Based on the respective experience levels of Plaintiff’s
attorneys, alongside the hourly rates charged by other attorneys of comparable
experience and the Court’s familiarity with fees charged in the community, the
Court finds that the rates that Plaintiff requests for the attorney work on Pinter-Brown
II are reasonable.
 
Pinter-Brown I
 
The Regents objects to Plaintiff’s retroactive application
of her attorneys’ current rates to the time billed in Pinter-Brown I. When
Plaintiff previously requested attorney’s fees in Pinter Brown I, she
did so based on their rates at the time. Plaintiff’s current request now
applies the attorneys’ current rates. 
The Court agrees with the Regents’ argument in this regard.
 
“‘Court-awarded fees normally are received long after the
legal services are rendered. That delay can present cash-flow problems for the
attorneys. In any event, payment today for services rendered long in the past
deprives the eventual recipient of the value of the use of the money in the
meantime, which use, particularly in an inflationary era, is valuable. A
percentage adjustment to reflect the delay in receipt of payment therefore may
be appropriate.’ [Citation.]” (Graham v. DaimlerChrysler Corp. (2004) 34
Cal.4th 553, 583–584.) “But this enhancement, which is tantamount to an
interest rate, is by itself quite small and may be reduced or eliminated if the
lodestar rate is based on the present hourly rate rather than the lesser rate
applicable when the services were rendered.” (Id. at p. 584.)
 
The most reasonable approach here is not to retroactively
recalculate and increase all the fees expended and previously documented and requested
by Plaintiff in Pinter-Brown I. 
This would appear to over-compensate Plaintiff for the time value of
money in the context of this case.  Any
issue relating to the cost of delayed payment can be handled through the issue
of a multiplier for this portion of the fee award or the entirety of the fee
award.  
 
The Court therefore orders that Plaintiff use attorney fee
calculations for Pinter-Brown I based on the previous rates sought.  Plaintiff may address any adjustment to this
amount in its briefing on the multiplier.
 
Time Expenditures
 
Client Meetings
 
The Regents objects to Plaintiff’s initial request of 1012
hours for Mr. Shegerian for 242 client meetings from June 5, 2020 to May 10,
2024. In her reply, Plaintiff states that the time spent on these meetings was
accidentally overstated as a result of clerical errors. Shegerian states that his
meetings with Plaintiff in that timeframe did not number over 100. (Reply
Shegerian Decl. ¶¶ 3-4.) Plaintiff has provided a corrected fee chart.
 
In the updated figures, Plaintiff requests 413.6 hours for
client meetings.  As explained below, the
Court agrees that it was reasonable for Mr. Shegerian to spend substantial time
with his client in preparation for trial; however, the 413.6 hours requested is
still too high to be reasonable.  This
would amount to meetings between the client and her attorney full time, every
business day, for almost two entire months. 
The Court finds reasonable a reduced amount of 200 hours (i.e., a 213.6-hour
reduction from the hours Plaintiff requested in reply). While this, too, is a
large amount of time, there are case-specific reasons that make it
reasonable.  Plaintiff was not just Mr. Shegerian’s
client, she was also the primary witness in her case in chief. Plaintiff’s
direct examination alone lasted roughly nine hours. Further, these meetings
occurred after the appellate court ruling that excluded a substantial amount of
the evidence that Plaintiff had previously relied on to prove her
discrimination claims. It was thus prudent for Plaintiff’s attorneys to spend
substantial time reformulating their trial strategy and ensuring that they
would still have adequate evidence to prove their case.
 
Mr. Shegerian’s Review of the Case File
 
The Regents objects to Mr. Shegerian’s time spent reviewing
the case file prior to argument at the Court of Appeal. Mr. Shegerian himself
did not draft any appellate briefing or argue before the Court of Appeal.
 
As the lead attorney on the case, it was reasonable for Mr. Shegerian
to spend time reviewing the case file. This is true even though he himself did
not argue on appeal – it was his job to coordinate the attorneys under his
supervision. This review would necessarily take a long time due to the sheer
volume of material – trial in this case, which did not encapsulate nearly all
of the evidence on hand, lasted over twenty days. However, the Court finds that
the expenditure of 34 hours was nevertheless too large.
 
The Court reduces the hours for these items to 15.
 
Mr. Shegerian’s Work on Discovery Responses and Pleadings
 
The Regents objects to Mr. Shegerian’s time billed for his
preparation and review of pleadings “that he, especially as lead trial counsel,
would not be expected to review or prepare.” (Opposition at p. 10:26-28.) The
Court disagrees that it was inappropriate for Mr. Shegerian to spend time
reviewing these items. However, the time spent was excessive. Mr. Shegerian
billed 21 hours preparing pleadings and 59 hours reviewing pleadings and
discovery responses, a total of 80 hours. 
 
The Court reduces these times to 12 hours and 28 hours
respectively, a total of 40 hours.
 
Independent Jury Consultant
 
The Regents objects to Plaintiff’s claimed $96,500.00 for
jury consultant Steven Haltman. Haltman has a J.D. but is not an attorney. The
Court agrees. Although Plaintiff argues that fees may be recovered for a law
clerk, Haltman was not retained as a law clerk, either. He was retained as a
jury consultant and trial strategist. Haltman’s fees are not recoverable as
attorney’s fees.
 
William Reed’s Pretrial Hours
 
The Regents objects that William Reed’s post-remand hours
are excessive, asserting that he over-litigated the action. The Regents argues
that Mr. Reed propounded overbroad discovery, engaged in needless motion
practice, and pursued untenable legal theories.
 
The Court does not agree that Plaintiff’s post-remand
discovery was needless. With much of the “me too” evidence that Plaintiff
originally relied on excluded, Plaintiff’s attorneys could reasonably need to
conduct further discovery in order to ensure that they could still prove their
case. The fact that Plaintiff’s attorneys relied almost entirely on adverse
witnesses and Plaintiff herself – and succeeded at doing so – highlights both
the reasonableness of their intensive discovery efforts and the outcomes that
they obtained. The fact that not every item of discovery let to evidence used
at trial does not invalidate Plaintiff’s overall discovery strategy.
 
The Court agrees that some of Mr. Reed’s time spent
asserting that Plaintiff’s age discrimination and harassment claims were alive
and well after remand was not warranted. However, the time spent researching
the difference between discrimination and harassment was warranted. 
 
The Court reduces Mr. Reed’s pretrial hours by 12.
 
William Reed’s Trial Hours
 
Mr. Reed was present throughout trial as a third-chair. This
is uncommon, but not unheard of. Mr. Reed primarily handled law and motion
issues and also examined one witness. 
The vast majority of the work at trial was done by Mr. Shegerian and Ms.
Majidi.
 
The Regents also had additional attorneys at trial attending
remotely. (Opposition at p. 13:11-13.) The Court has taken this into
consideration but does not believe that this alone justifies the entirety of
the fees for Mr. Reed to attend the trial, in light of his specified role.  Among things, the additional Regents
attorneys did not travel to and from court every trial day and were presumably
able to use their time efficiently on other tasks.  In addition, if the Court would be called
upon to consider the reasonableness of the additional Regents attorneys, the
Court would not necessarily find them to be reasonable either.
 
The Court recognizes that Mr. Reed drafted Plaintiff’s
opposition to the motion for new trial. 
However, it was not necessary for him to have been at every session of
the trial in order for him to have done that. 

 
The Court will reduce Mr. Reed’s trial hours from 217 to 100.  The Court approves the 100 hours as
reasonable because Mr. Reed undoubtedly did valuable work in connection with
the trial that should be compensated.
 
Miscellaneous Trial Preparation
 
The Regents objects to the hours billed on the days of trial
by Mr. Shegerian, Ms. Madjidi, and Mr. Reed for “prep for trial the following
day”. Over 20 days of trial, Mr. Shegerian billed 57.1 hours, Ms. Madjidi
billed 63.5 hours, and Mr. Reed billed 54 hours. An entry does not necessarily need
to explain the exact work performed when its purpose is clear in the context of
this case.  The Court considers these time
expenditures reasonable, and the Court does not adjust them.
 
Anthony Nguyen and Mark Lim’s Hours During Pinter-Brown II
 
The Regents argues that Anthony Nguyen and Mark Lim, who
litigated Pinter Brown I but not Pinter Brown II, should not have
billed any time during Pinter Brown II. The Court disagrees. As the
attorneys involved in the first trial, Nguyen and Lim would have both possessed
knowledge that was vital to Plaintiff’s strategy for the second trial, ranging
from the testimony and behavior of witnesses to the apparent effect of various
pieces of evidence on jurors. The Court finds the time expended to be
reasonable.
 
Internal Communications
 
The Regents objects to Plaintiff’s request for a total of
407.5 hours for internal communications between attorneys at Shegerian &
Associates. These communications spanned a period of 8 years. This equates to
roughly 51 hours per year or around 4.25 hours per month, across all attorneys.
The Court finds this time expenditure to be reasonable.
 
Time Entries for Jacob Sanandaji and Aaron Shahmaram
 
The Regents objects to the 29 hours spent by Jacob Sanandaji
and Aaron Shahmaram reviewing the opposition prepared by Mr. Reed to the motion
for a new trial in Pinter Brown II. The Court finds these time
expenditures to be reasonable. Mr. Reed had to prepare the papers on a quick
turnaround, arguing with respect to 20 days of evidence presented at trial.
Furthermore, had the motion been granted, Plaintiff could have lost her entire
case or incurred vastly more attorney hours. This time was therefore reasonably
spent.
 
Time Entries for Jill McDonell
 
The Regents objects that Jill McDonnell’s time entries
contain 10.9 hours of billing for “Pinter-Brown” without elaboration. Because
these entries do not even contain a general description of the work performed,
the Court reduces McDonnell’s hours by 10.9.
 
Lodestar Multiplier
 
“[T]he lodestar is the basic fee for comparable legal
services in the community; it may be adjusted by the court based on factors
including, as relevant herein, (1) the novelty and difficulty of the questions
involved, (2) the skill displayed in presenting them, (3) the extent to which
the nature of the litigation precluded other employment by the attorneys, (4)
the contingent nature of the fee award.” (Ketchum v. Moses, supra,
24 Cal.4th at p. 1132.)
 
The Court would prefer to determine the proper multiplier,
if any, after it has received the updated calculations it has requested on the
underlying lodestar. The Court also requests that the parties provide any
further argument and case law that they believe will be helpful in determining
the proper level for a multiplier, if any. 

 