  Case Number:  21STCV44732    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2023    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



CHRISTOPHER CALLAHAN 
  
        
  vs.
 
THE WAGS CLUB LLC
  


 Case
  No.:  21STCV44732 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  September 25, 2023




 
            If
Plaintiff contends Defendant’s responses have not mooted these motions,
Plaintiff is to contact Department 17 to schedule an IDC. 
 
On 12/8/2021, Plaintiff Christopher Callahan (Plaintiff)
filed suit against the Wags Club, LLC (Defendant), alleging: (1) failure to pay
wages; (2) failure to provide meal and rest periods; (3) failure to pay minimum
wage; (4) failure to pay overtime wages; (5) failure to pay wages due upon
termination: waiting time penalties; (6) failure to issue accurate itemized
wage statements; (7) unlawful/unfair business practice; (8) wrongful
termination; (9) retaliation; (10) failure to reimburse business expenses; and
(11) failure to deliver personnel file.
 
Now,
Plaintiff moves to compel further responses to discovery from Defendant to his
Requests for Production (RFPs) and Special Interrogatories (SROGs.) However, this Court requires that
parties participate in an informal discovery conference (IDC) before discovery
motions can be heard on the merits. 
 
Moreover, Defendant noted in opposition that Plaintiff’s
motions were mooted by the provision of supplemental responses, and that these
motions were unnecessary because Defendant never indicated that it would not be
provided supplemental responses. Accordingly, even assuming there was no IDC
requirement, the Court would have found Plaintiff did not engage in adequate
meet-and-confer.  
 
            If
Plaintiff contends Defendant’s responses have not mooted these motions,
Plaintiff is to contact Department 17 to schedule an IDC. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  September   
, 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
                        
 
 