  Case Number:  20STCV35697    Hearing Date:   March 20, 2024    Dept:  76 Pursuant to California Rule of Court
3.1308(a)(1), the Court does not desire oral argument on the motion addressed
herein.  Counsel must contact the staff
in Department 76 to inform the Court whether they wish to submit on the
tentative, or to argue the matter.  As
required by Rule 3.1308(a), any party seeking oral argument must notify ALL
OTHER PARTIES and the staff of Department 76 of their intent to appear and
argue. 
Notice to Department 76 may be sent by email to
smcdept76@lacourt.org or telephonically at 213-830-0776. 
Per Rule of Court 3.1308, if notice of intention
to appear is not given, the Court may adopt the tentative ruling as the final
ruling.            Plaintiff alleges wage and hour
violations and FEHA violations based upon Plaintiff’s physical disabilities and
request for accommodations.
            Defendant
Darrel Benevuto and Defendant Chris Tanimoto demur to the First Amended
Complaint.
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant Darrell Benevuto’s and
Defendant Chris Tanimoto’s demurrers to the First Amended Complaint are
SUSTAINED without leave to amend. Doe Defendants Benevuto and Tanimoto
are ordered dismissed with prejudice.
            Defendants’
request for attorneys’ fees is DENIED without prejudice to a properly
noticed-motion. The Court expresses no opinion as to whether such attorney’s
fees motion would be successful, so this should not be construed as an
endorsement of the right to attorney’s fees.
ANALYSIS
Defendants Darrell
Benevuto and Chris Tanimoto’s Demurrers
            Because they raise identical
arguments, the Court will address the demurrers of Defendants Darrell Benevuto[1]
and Chris Tanimoto at the same time.
Meet and Confer
            The Declaration of Andrew M. Wyatt
reflects that Defendant’s counsel satisfied the meet and confer requirement set
forth in CCP § 430.41.
Discussion
Defendants Darrell Benevuto and
Chris Tanimoto separately demur to the First Amended Complaint as follows: 
1.         Entire First
Amended Complaint.
            Defendant
argues that the entire Complaint is uncertain as against this Defendant in that
there are no facts pled against this Defendant, as opposed to general
allegations lumping all Defendants together.
            Defendant
also argues that Plaintiff did not serve Doe Defendants within the three-year
period set forth in Civ. Proc. Code, § 583.210(a).(Inversiones Papaluchi
S.A.S. v. Superior Court (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1055, 1061.) The action was
commenced on September 17, 2020, but the Doe amendment was filed on January 17,
2024. Defendant argues that the Court has no jurisdiction to allow a Doe
amendment at this late date. (Civ. Proc. Code, § 583.250.)
            Plaintiff
argues that the Court has discretion to allow any amendment up to the time of
trial (Civ. Proc. Code, § 576.) Plaintiff argues that the Doe amendment relates
back to the original filing of the Complaint because the Doe amendment rests on
the same general facts, involve the same injury, and refers to the same
instrumentality.
            Defendant also argues that
Plaintiff’s delay in filing the Doe amendment was unreasonable given that
Plaintiff was aware of this Doe Defendant’ identity.
 
            Defendant
also argues that Plaintiff failed to exhaust administrative remedies prior to
filing against this Defendant. 
 
            Plaintiff
concedes he did not exhaust administrative remedies as to the Doe Defendant and
he is not asserting FEHA claims against Doe Defendants.
 
            Defendant
argues Plaintiff’s cannot sue this Defendant for the alleged causes of action
because Plaintiff was not employed by this Doe Defendant.
 
            Plaintiff
concedes he does not seek to hold this Doe Defendant liable for any of the FEHA
claims, nor for Labor Code §§ 98.6, 6310, 6311, failure to pay meal and rest
breaks and failure to provide accurate wage statement claims. Plaintiff only
seeks to hold the Doe Defendant liable for violation of Labor Code § 1102.5
(whistleblower protection) and Labor Code §§ 201, 202 and 203, for failure to
pay all wages upon termination. Plaintiff argues that a person need not be an
employer to be held liable for these violations.
 
            Defendant
argues that the Court should award attorney fees because Plaintiff had no
reasonable basis for bringing claims against these Defendants.  
 
            The Court
will engage in the following analysis applicable to all causes of action
asserted against demurring Defendants:
 
            First,
Plaintiff’s use of the Doe amendment procedure was improper because Plaintiff
demonstrated actual knowledge of Benevuto (identified as Benvenuto in the 1AC)
and Tanimoto. The 1AC alleges their names and their words/actions relative to
Plaintiff. (See, 1AC, ¶¶ 7, 17, 18, 20, 21, 23.) Yet, they were not named as
Defendants in the 1AC. 
 
“When the plaintiff is ignorant of
the name of a defendant, he must state that fact in the complaint, or the
affidavit if the action is commenced by affidavit, and such defendant may be
designated in any pleading or proceeding by any name, and when his true name is
discovered, the pleading or proceeding must be amended accordingly.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 474.) A plaintiff's ignorance must be genuine and based on a lack
of knowledge of the defendant's connection with the case. (General Motors
Corp. v. Superior Court (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 580, 594, 55 Cal.Rptr.2d 871.) If
a plaintiff satisfies those requirements, the amendment relates back
to the filing of the original petition or complaint such that the “statute of
limitations stops running as of the date the original complaint was filed.”
(Id. at p. 589, 55 Cal.Rptr.2d 871.) Trial courts also have discretion, “in
furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, [to] allow a party
to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any
party.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).)
 
(Organizacion Comunidad De
Alviso v. City of San Jose (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 783, 794 [bold emphasis
and underlining added].)
 
            The 1AC was
filed on May 17, 2021, yet the Doe amendments were not filed until January 17,
2024, long after Plaintiff had demonstrated actual knowledge of Benevuto and
Tanimoto’s identities and roles in the underlying causes of action. As such,
Plaintiff cannot avail himself of the Doe amendment procedure set forth in Civ.
Proc. Code, § 474.
 
            Second,
because Plaintiff cannot avail himself of the Doe amendment procedure,
Plaintiff’s addition of Defendant Benevuto and Tanimoto as new parties to this
action does not relate back to the filing of the original Complaint.
 
The general rule is that an amended
complaint that adds a new defendant does not relate back to the date of filing
the original complaint and the statute of limitations is applied as of the date
the amended complaint is filed, not the date the original complaint is filed. (Citations
omitted.) A recognized exception to the general rule is the substitution under
section 474 of a new defendant for a fictitious Doe defendant named in the
original complaint as to whom a cause of action was stated in the original
complaint. (Citations omitted.) If the requirements of section 474 are
satisfied, the amended complaint substituting a new defendant for a
fictitious Doe defendant filed after the statute of limitations has expired is
deemed filed as of the date the original complaint was filed. (Citation omitted.)
 
(Woo v. Superior Ct.
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 169, 176.)
 
            Here,
Plaintiff’s employment with Defendant ended on January 18, 2019, which is the
last possible day that Plaintiff’s causes of action could have accrued as
against Defendants. (1AC, ¶ 6.) The attempted addition of Benevuto and Tanimoto
as Defendants occurred on January 17, 2024—five years later. There is no
applicable five year statute of limitations, nor any apparent basis for tolling
the statute of limitations as against Defendants Benevuto and Tanimoto. As
such, all claims are time barred against these two newly-added Defendants.
 
            Third, even
if Plaintiff’s use of the Doe amendment were proper, the Doe defendants were
untimely served.
 
The relation-back doctrine applicable
to a fictitiously named defendant and the requirement that a plaintiff serve
the summons and complaint within three years are independent concepts. Thus,
even where the filing of an amended complaint on a Doe defendant relates back
to the filing of an original complaint, the plaintiff must nonetheless identify
and serve a Doe defendant with a summons and complaint within three years of
the commencement of the action. (Lopa v. Superior Court (1975) 46 Cal.App.3d
382, 387-390, 120 Cal.Rptr. 445 [under predecessor to § 583.210, subd. (a)];
see § 583.250, subd. (d) [requirements of § 583.210 et seq. “are mandatory and
are not subject to extension, excuse, or exception except as expressly provided
by statute”].)
 
(Higgins v. Superior Ct.
(2017) 15 Cal. App. 5th 973, 982.)
 
            Here, the
Complaint was filed on September 17, 2020, whereas the Doe Defendant amendments
were not even filed until January 17, 2024. As such, the Doe amendments were
untimely under Civ. Proc. Code, § 583.210, which requires that the summons and
complaint be served upon a defendant within three years after the action is
commenced against the defendant. Dismissal of these defendants is mandatory.
(Civ. Proc. Code, s 583.250.)
 
            For the
foregoing reasons, the both Defendants’ demurrers to the First Amended
Complaint are SUSTAINED without leave to amend. Doe Defendants Benevuto
and Tanimoto are ordered dismissed with prejudice.
 
            Defendants’
request for attorneys’ fees is DENIED without prejudice to a properly
noticed-motion. The Court expresses no opinion as to whether such attorney’s
fees motion would be successful, so this should not be construed as an
endorsement of the right to attorney’s fees. 


