 Case Number:  24STCV01615    Hearing Date:   June 17, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
FERNANDO
  BARAJAS-SALOMON,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
101 GRANITE COUNTERTOP
  LLC, et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  24STCV01615
  Hearing Date:  June 17, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant mohawk industries, inc.’s
  motion to strike (CRS# 7063)




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On January 19, 2024, Plaintiff
Fernando Barajas-Salomon filed this product liability action against various
defendants. Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint on March 18,
2024, asserting (1) negligence, (2) products liability – failure to warn, (3)
products liability – design defect, (4) fraudulent concealment, (5) breach of
implied warranties, and (6) loss of consortium. 
            According to the complaint, from
2005 to 2023, Plaintiff worked as a cutter, fabricator and/or installer of
Defendants’ stone products. (FAC ¶¶ 172-175.) As a result of this work,
Plaintiff came into contact with “inherently hazardous stone products
manufactured, imported, supplied, distributed, contracted, and/or brokered, by
the named Defendants and Does 1-100.” (Id., ¶ 177.) Specifically,
Plaintiff was “exposed to and inhaled stone dust containing silica and other
toxins and carcinogens.” (Ibid.) Plaintiff allegedly developed lung
disease and is at increased risk of developing other silica-related diseases. (Id.,
¶ 178.) Plaintiff alleges that he “has had to receive substantial medical
treatment, including hospitalizations and surgeries, and will require lung
transplantation.” (Id., ¶ 179.) 
            On May 7, 2024, Defendant Mohawk
Industries, Inc. filed the instant motion to strike certain allegations from
the FAC. Plaintiff filed his opposition on June 4, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part of that pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b).) The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike (1) any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading and (2) all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Id., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face
of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.)
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.)
The Court notes that Defendant has complied with the meet and confer
requirement. (See Kavarian Decl.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Additional Products to be Identified in Discovery
            Defendant seeks to strike the phrase
“and other silica-containing stone products to be identified during the course
of discovery.” (FAC ¶ 171.) The heightened standard for pleading toxic exposure
requires Plaintiff to “identify each product that allegedly caused the injury.”
(Bockrath v. Aldrich Chemical Co. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 71, 80.) The
catchall allegation in the FAC would allow Plaintiff to base liability on any
number of unidentified products, thereby contravening Bockrath.
Therefore, the phrase is stricken. 
II.
Irrelevant Allegations
            Defendant seeks to strike paragraphs
670 and 671 of the FAC, which describe criminal liability imposed against
Defendant in the 1990s for illegal waste dumping. These facts are irrelevant to
the present dispute. Defendant’s malice or conscious disregard for purposes of
punitive damages may be demonstrated by facts related to the stone products at
issue, not by events from thirty years ago that did not involve Plaintiff. Therefore,
the allegations are stricken.  
CONCLUSION
            Defendant Mohawk Industries, Inc.’s
motion to strike is GRANTED. 
 