  Case Number:  18STCV06544    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  26  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26



 
miranda chen aka JIEN CHEN, and ROLLING ROLES, LLC,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
CHRISTINA GILMORE, et al.
                        Defendants


 
  Case No.: 
  18STCV06544
 
  Hearing Date:  January 10, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion to be relieved as counsel
 



 
On December 4, 2023, Helen W. Quan, Esq. (“Counsel”),
filed the instant motion to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff Rolling Roles,
LLC (“Client”).
Counsel has filed a form MC051 and MC-052 and
has lodged with the Court a copy of the proposed order on form MC-053 pursuant
to CRC Rule 3.1362.  
The MC-052 form states that Counsel served
Client via mail at Client’s last known mailing address which Counsel states she
has confirmed as current within 30 days of the motion by telephone.  
Counsel states that “[p]ursuant to the
terms of the attorney client agreement, the attorney/client relationship has
ended. Miranda Chen has signed substitution of attorney which was filed on
December 4, 2023. Miranda Chen, managing member of Rolling Roles, LLC does not
oppose attorney's withdrawal from representation, but since it is a limited
liability company, and new counsel has not yet been retained, there is no new
counsel to substitute in, thereby requiring this motion to be relieved as
counsel for the LLC.”
Prior to the commencement of the hearing, Counsel
is ordered to electronically file and email to Department 26 a corrected proposed
order on form MC-053.  Provided that Counsel
file and email the corrected form MC-053, the Court is inclined to grant the
motion based on the declaration filed by Counsel.  However, the proposed order on form MC-053 has
not been properly completed.
The proposed order on form MC-053 must
include the Court’s address in items 7(a), 8 and 9(b).  The proposed order must identify all upcoming
hearings and scheduled court appearances. 
Instead, the proposed order currently lists only past hearing
dates.  The Court’s records show the
following upcoming hearings, which must all be listed in the revised proposed
order (MC-053): 
 
-       The
Client’s phone number and email address(es) should be added to item 6.
 
-       Item
7 (next scheduled hearing): 2/13/24 – Hearing on Application for Order for
Appearance and Examination.  Miranda Chen’s
failure to appear will result in the issuance of a body attachment against Miranda
Chen.
 
-       Item
8 (additional hearings): 2/20/24 - Defendants’Cross-Complainants’ motion for
attorney’s fees against Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants.
 
-       Additional
language for Item 13: “A corporation or LLC must be represented by licensed
counsel in proceedings before this Court. Rolling
Roles, LLC will be unable to file or respond to any post judgment motions
without first filing a substitution of counsel that makes clear the identity of
new counsel.  Moving Counsel is
ordered to file proof of service of this signed order on all parties, including
Client, within 3 days.”
 
Counsel is responsible for determining if
there are any other hearings scheduled or due dates for discovery for this
case, including any motions hearings, which must all be listed in the proposed
order.  For each hearing, Counsel must
state the date, time, and location of the hearing (“111 N. Hill Street, Dept.
26, L.A., CA 90012”). For each due date for discovery, Counsel must identify
the nature of the discovery responses that are outstanding, the due date, and
the address where verified responses must be sent.
As to Plaintiff Rolling Roles, LLC, the
Court notes that while a corporation has the capacity to bring a lawsuit
because it has all the powers of a natural person in carrying out its business,
under a long-standing common law rule of procedure, a corporation, unlike a
natural person, cannot represent itself before courts of record in propria
persona, nor can it represent itself through a corporate officer, director or
other employee who is not an attorney.  (CLD Const., Inc. v. City of San Ramon
(2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1145.)  “[A corporation]
must be represented by licensed counsel in proceedings before courts of
record.  (Id.)  Accordingly, as only
post judgment motions remain, absent a filing of a substitution of counsel, Rolling
Roles, LLC will be unable to file or respond to any post judgment motions.
The corrected Order will be signed and
filed, and Counsel is relieved as counsel of record for Rolling Roles, LLC effective
only upon Counsel’s filing of the proofs of service of the signed Orders upon Rolling
Roles, LLC.  Counsel will remain the
attorney of record until Counsel files proofs of service of the signed orders on
all parties.  
Counsel is ordered to serve copies of the
instant order and the signed form MC-053 order on all parties, including Rolling
Roles, LLC, and file proof of service of such within 3 days.
 
 
 
DATED: January 10, 2024                                         ___________________________
                                                                              Elaine
Lu
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court
 