

Hearing Date:             September
18, 2024
Case Name:                Johanna Cobarrubias v.
Ventura Park Management, LLC  
Case No.:                    22STCV00179
Motion:                       Application
for Determination of Good Faith Settlement   
Moving
Party:             Plaintiff Johanna
Cobarrubias and Defendant Ventura Park Management, LLC  
Responding
Party:      Defendant and
Cross-Complainant Phuong Pham   
 

Tentative Ruling:      The
Application for Determination of Good Faith Settlement is denied without
prejudice. 
 
                                     

 
Background
 
In this employment action, Plaintiff Johanna
Cobarrubias (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint on January 3, 2022, alleging discrimination,
retaliation, failure to provide reasonable accommodations, failure to engage in
a good faith interactive process, wrongful termination in violation of public
policy, and other claims against her former employer, Defendant Ventura Park
Management, LLC (“VPM”). 
 
On July 15, 2022, Defendant VPM filed
its Answer to the Complaint. 
 
Also, on July 15, 2022, Defendant VPM
filed a Cross-Complaint against Kevin Long Ha and Phuong Pham alleging a cause
of action for comparative indemnity/declaratory relief. 
 
On September 14, 2022, Defendant VPM
requested default against Phuong Pham on the Cross-Complaint, and default was
entered on such date. 
 
On November 16, 2022, Plaintiff filed
an Amendment to Complaint which identified Kevin Long Ha as Doe 1.
 
On November 16, 2022, Plaintiff filed
an Amendment to Complaint which identified Phong Pham as Doe 2. 
 
On October 24, 2023, Plaintiff
requested default against Phong Pham on the Complaint, and default was entered
on such date. 
 
On October 30, 2023, Defendant VPM
requested default against Kevin Long Ha on the Cross-Complaint, and default was
entered on such date. 
 
On June 4, 2024, Defendant VPM filed
a Proof of Service indicating that the summons, complaint, and cross-complaint
were served on Phuong Pham on June 2, 2024 by substituted service. 
 
On August 6, 2024, the Court held a
status conference. At the status conference, Plaintiff’s counsel informed the
Court “that the default entered on October 24, 2023, was entered as to the
wrong ‘Phong Pham,’ with the address indicated on the previously filed proof of
service.” (08/06/24 Minute Order at p. 1.) The Court therefore indicated that
“the default entered against defendant Phong Pham is ordered vacated and said
defendant’s name is corrected to reflect ‘Phuong Pham’. (08/06/24 Minute Order
at p. 1.) The Court vacated the default entered on October 24, 2023 as to Phong
Pham. (08/06/24 Minute Order at p. 1.) 
 
Moreover, the Court also vacated the
default entered on September 14, 2022 concerning the Cross-Complaint. (08/06/24
Minute Order at p. 1.) The Court vacated such default as to Phuong Pham
pursuant to an oral motion by counsel for Defendant VPM. (08/06/24 Minute Order
at p. 1.) “Pursuant to a joint oral motion by plaintiff’s counsel and counsel
for cross-complainant, defaults are entered against Phuong Pham on the
complaint and the cross-complaint, with the address of 1738 44th Avenue, San
Francisco, CA 94122 (as indicated in the proof of service filed on June 04,
2024).” (08/06/24 Minute Order.) 
 
The Court ordered counsel to submit
default packets for entry of judgments no later than October 15, 2024.
(08/06/24 Minute Order at p. 1.) The Court set a hearing on Plaintiff’s Motion
for Determination of Good Faith Settlement (as to Defendant VPM) for September
18, 2024. (08/06/24 Minute Order at p. 2.)  
 
On August 15, 2024, Long Ha (who
indicates that he was erroneously sued as Kevin Long Ha) filed a joint Answer
to the Complaint and the Cross-Complaint. 
 
On August 19, 2024, Plaintiff and
Defendant VPM (collectively, “Settling Parties”) filed and served the instant
Application for Determination of Good Faith Settlement. 
 
On August 23, 2024, Phuong Pham
(“Pham”) filed a Motion to Set Aside and Vacate Default, which is set for
hearing on September 24, 2024.
 
Long Ha also filed a Motion to Set
Aside and Vacate Default as to the Cross-Complaint, which is set for hearing on
October 1, 2024.   
 
On September 4, 2024, Pham filed an
opposition to the Application for Determination of Good Faith Settlement, to
which the Settling Parties replied on September 11, 2024. 
 
Legal Standard 
 
“Any party to an action in which it
is alleged that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a
contract debt shall be entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of
a settlement entered into by the plaintiff or other claimant and one or more
alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors, upon giving notice in the manner provided
by subdivision (b) of Section 1005.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd.
(a)(1).)  
 
“In the alternative, a settling party
may give notice of settlement to all parties and to the court, together with an
application for determination of good faith settlement and a proposed order.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (a)(2).) “The application shall indicate the
settling parties, and the basis, terms, and amount of the settlement.” (Ibid.)
“The notice, application, and proposed order shall be given by certified mail,
return receipt requested, or by personal service.” (Ibid.) “Proof of
service shall be filed with the court. Within 25 days of the mailing of the
notice, application, and proposed order, or within 20 days of personal service,
a nonsettling party may file a notice of motion to contest the good faith
settlement.” (Ibid.) “If none of the nonsettling parties files a motion
within 25 days of mailing of the notice, application, and proposed order, or
within 20 days of personal service, the court may approve the settlement.” (Ibid.)  
 
“The issue of the good faith of a
settlement may be determined by the court on the basis of the affidavits served
with the notice of hearing, and any counteraffidavits filed in response, or the
court may, in its discretion, receive other evidence at the hearing.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (b).) “A determination by the court that the
settlement was made in good faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasor or
co-obligor from any further claims against the settling tortfeasor or
co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or comparative
indemnity, based on comparative negligence or comparative fault.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 877.6, subd. (c).) “The party asserting the lack of good faith shall
have the burden of proof on that issue.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (d).)

 
When determining whether a settlement
was made in good faith, the following factors are considered: (1) a rough
approximation of plaintiff’s total recovery and the settlor’s proportionate
liability; (2) the amount paid in settlement; (3) the allocation of settlement
proceeds among plaintiffs; (4) a recognition that a settlor should pay less in
settlement than he would if he were found liable after a trial; (5) the
financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling defendants; and
(6) the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the
interests of the non-settling defendants.  (Tech-Bilt, Inc. v.
Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499.) 
 
“The ultimate determinant of good
faith is whether the settlement is grossly disproportionate to what a
reasonable person at the time of settlement would estimate the settlor’s
liability to be.” (City of Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192
Cal.App.3d 1251, 1262 [citation omitted].) “[A] good faith settlement does not
call for perfect or even nearly perfect apportionment of liability.” (Abbott
Ford, Inc. v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 858, 875 [internal quotations
omitted].) “[O]nly when the good faith nature of a settlement is disputed, it
is incumbent upon the trial court to consider and weigh the Tech-Bilt
factors.” (City of Grand Terrace v. Superior Court, supra,
192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261.) “That is to say, when no one objects, the barebones
motion which sets forth the ground of good faith, accompanied by a declaration
which sets forth a brief background of the case is sufficient.” (Ibid.)
 
Discussion
 
Pham Lacks Standing to Oppose the
Motion 
 
On reply, the Settling Parties assert
that Pham lacks standing to oppose the application because default was entered
against Pham on August 6, 2024. 
 
“The entry of a default terminates a
defendant’s rights to take any further affirmative steps in the litigation
until either its default is set aside or a default judgment is entered.” (Devlin
v. Kearny Mesa AMC/Jeep/Renault, Inc. (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 381, 385.) “A
default against whom a default has been entered is out of court and is not
entitled to take any further steps in the cause affecting plaintiff’s right of
action . . . until such default is set aside in a proper proceeding . . . .” (Ibid.)

 
The Court agrees with the Settling
Parties that Pham lacks standing to oppose the application. Default has been
entered against Pham on both the Complaint and the Cross-Complaint. (See
08/06/24 Minute Order.) Thus, until the default is set aside, Pham lacks any
right to take any further affirmative steps in this litigation. Given that Pham
cannot take any further steps in this action until the default is set aside,
the Court strikes Pham’s improperly filed opposition. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,
subd. (b).) 
 
The Application for Determination of
Good Faith Settlement is Deficient 
 
According to the Complaint, Plaintiff
was hired by Defendants as a Medication Technician/Front Desk Assistant on or
about February 21, 2020. (Complaint, ¶ 15.) Plaintiff fulfilled, and
substantially performed, all of her job duties and all the terms and conditions
of employment. (Complaint, ¶ 16.) On or about March 19, 2020, Plaintiff’s
daughter was admitted to the ICU because she began to develop possible COVID-19
symptoms. (Complaint, ¶ 17.) On or about March 20, 2020, Plaintiff contacted
her supervisor to inform her that her daughter was hospitalized and as a result
would be unable to work her shift. (Compliant, ¶ 19.) Plaintiff alleges that on
or about March 28, 2020, Plaintiff was expected to return to work; however,
Plaintiff began to develop COVID-19 symptoms and informed her supervisor of
such fact. (Complaint, ¶ 21.) Plaintiff was placed off work by her medical
provider who transmitted her medical leave notes to Defendants. (Complaint, ¶¶
21-22.) Plaintiff alleges that her supervisors refused to reinstate her
employment and she was terminated on or about April 30, 2020. (Complaint, ¶¶
23-25.) Plaintiff was terminated because her supervisor reasoned that
Plaintiff’s COVID-19 symptoms might return and that she might still have
COVID-19. (Complaint, ¶ 24.) 
 
In the Cross-Complaint, Defendant VPM
alleges that Pham and Ha caused the damages alleged by Plaintiff in the
Complaint. (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 8.) 
 
Luis Guardado, Esq. (“Guardado”)
provides a declaration in support of the application for determination of good
faith settlement. Mr. Guardado sets forth the causes of action alleged in the
Complaint (Guardado Decl., ¶ 2), and the procedural history involving the entry
of defaults against Pham and Ha (Guardado Decl., ¶¶ 5-9.) Counsel states that
he eventually learned that the person served on January 16, 2023 was not
Defendant Pham and that the incorrect person named Phuong Pham was served.
(Guardado Decl., ¶ 5.) Counsel states that “the correct Pham was properly
served on June 3, 2024 with both Plaintiff’s complaint and VPM’s
cross-complaint.” (Guardado Decl., ¶ 13; Ex. 6.)
 
As to the good faith of the
settlement, Mr. Guardado states that “[o]n November 6, 2023, myself, Kaveh S.
Elihu, Esq., and Plaintiff attended a mediation with VPM and their counsel to
resolve this matter. The parties settled their disputes, but VPM maintains its
denial of any wrongdoing or liability to Plaintiff. VPM further contends that
when it purchased VPM from Pham and Long, it did not purchase any of VPM’s
liabilities, including but not limited to, any potential liabilities to
Plaintiff.” (Guardado Decl., ¶ 10.) The agreement to settle does not include
either Ha or Pham. (Guardado Decl., ¶ 10.) The terms of the settlement
agreement require “VPM [to] pay Plaintiff Seventy-Five Thousand Dollars and
Zero Cents . . . in consideration of, Plaintiff’s execution of and compliance
with the terms of the settlement agreement which includes [Plaintiff’s] waiver
and release of claims against VPM.” (Guardado Decl., ¶ 10.) According to
counsel, “[t]he parties memorialized their settlement agreement in a binding
and written [s]ettlement [a]greement and has been executed by each of the
Settling Parties and approved as to form by their respective counsel.”
(Guardado Decl., ¶ 10.) 
 
The Court finds that the application
is deficient. Although the application is unopposed given the Court’s striking of
Pham’s opposition brief, the Court finds that the declaration of Mr. Guardado
merely states the settlement amount and that such settlement does not include
Ha or Pham. 
 
The Court must be able to assess
“whether the amount of settlement is within the reasonable range of the
settling tortfeasor’s proportional share of comparative liability for the
plaintiff’s injuries.” (Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates,
supra, 38 Cal.3d 488, 499.) The declaration of Mr. Guardado does not
allow the Court to make such an assessment. Although the factors in Tech-Bilt
are nonexclusive, Mr. Guardado only presents the amount of the settlement while
not stating any facts as to the other five factors. (Cahill v. San Diego Gas
& Electric Co. (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 939, 959.) The Court must ensure
that the settlement amount is “not . . . grossly disproportionate to what a
reasonable person, at the time of settlement, would estimate the settling
defendant’s liability to be.” (Id. at p. 960.) The application, in its
present form, does not allow the Court to make such a determination. The
application presents insufficient information as to the reasonableness of the
settlement. 
 
The Court therefore cannot assess the
good faith of the settlement entered into between the Settling Parties. While
the application is unopposed, the Court finds that the application does not
make a sufficient showing of good faith. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES WITHOUT PREJUDICE the
Application for Determination of Good Faith Settlement Between Johanna
Cobarrubias and Ventura Park Management, LLC.    

 
 
 