 Case Number:  23NWCV01664    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  C Elizabeth Castaneda vs Jose Luis Toledo
Case No.: 23NWCV01664
Hearing Date: April 16, 2024 @ 10:30 a.m.
 
#10
Tentative Ruling 
Attorney Paymon John Vafa’s Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel is GRANTED. 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
This is a negligence action. 
Plaintiff’s Counsel Paymon John Vafa moves to be relieved
as Counsel for Plaintiff Elizabeth Castaneda.  
Good cause
exists to grant the motion based on any of the grounds under Rules of
Professional Conduct Rule 3-700(C). Rule 3-700(c) provides that an attorney may
withdraw based on any of the following: (1) The client (a) insists upon
presenting a claim or defense that is not warranted under existing law and
cannot be supported by good faith argument for an extension, modification, or
reversal of existing law, or (b) seeks to pursue an illegal course of conduct,
or (c) insists that the member pursue a course of conduct that is illegal or
that is prohibited under these rules or the State Bar Act, or (d) by other
conduct renders it unreasonably difficult for the member to carry out the
employment effectively, or (e) insists, in a matter not pending before a tribunal,
that the member engage in conduct that is contrary to the judgment and advice
of the member but not prohibited under these rules or the State Bar Act, or (f)
breaches an agreement or obligation to the member as to expenses or fees. (2)
The continued employment is likely to result in a violation of these rules or
of the State Bar Act; or (3) the inability to work with co-counsel indicates
that the best interests of the client likely will be served by withdrawal; or
(4) The member's mental or physical condition renders it difficult for the
member to carry out the employment effectively; or (5) The client knowingly and
freely assents to termination of the employment; or (6) The member believes in
good faith, in a proceeding pending before a tribunal, that the tribunal will
find the existence of other good cause for withdrawal. 
The attorney declaration
demonstrates good cause for withdrawal based on a breakdown in the
attorney-client relationship. Counsel indicates that the client has been served
by mail at the client’s last known address, which was confirmed within the past
30 days by telephone. 
The Motion is GRANTED. 