 Case Number:  23NWCV01803    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  C Phala Kieng, et al. vs Jaguar Land Rover North
America, LLC, et al
Case No.: 23NWCV01803
Hearing Date: April 16, 2024 @ 9:30 AM
 
#4
Tentative Ruling 
Plaintiff Phala Kieng’s Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Request for Production is CONTINUED to June 4, 2024 at
9:30 a.m. in Department SE-C. 
Plaintiff to give notice. 
 
Background 
This is a lemon law action. 
Plaintiffs allege that on or about October 13, 2021, Plaintiffs
purchased a 2020 Land Rover Range Rover Evoque, bearing VIN No.:
SALZJ2FX4LH016575 (“Subject Vehicle”). During the warranty period, the Subject
Vehicle contained or developed numerous defects that Defendant’s authorized
repair facility was unable to conform towarranty. According to the repair and
warranty records, Plaintiffs presented the Subject Vehicle to Defendant’s
authorized repair facility on numerous occasions for the various defects,
including the suspension, transmission, electrical, and engine system defects.
(Declaration of Joshua Kohanoff in Support of Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel (“JK
Decl.”) ¶ 4, Ex. 1.)
The Court is not persuaded that counsel have exhausted
their meet and confer obligations pursuant to the Code. Counsel are advised
that their meet and confer efforts should go beyond merely sending letters
stating their respective positions. (See Townsend v. Superior Court
(1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1431, 1439.) “A determination of whether an attempt at
informal resolution is adequate…involves the exercise of discretion. The level
of effort at an informal resolution which satisfies the ‘reasonable and good
faith attempt’ standard depends upon the circumstances. In a larger, more
complex discovery request, a greater effort at informal resolution may be
warranted. In a simpler, or more narrowly focused case, a more modest effort
may suffice. The history of the litigation, the nature of the interaction
between counsel, the nature of the issues, the type and scope of the discovery
requested, the prospects for success and other similar factors can be relevant.
Judges have broad powers and responsibilities to determine what measures and
procedures are appropriate in varying circumstances.” (Obregon v. Sup. Ct.
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431.) 
In Opposition, Defendants contend that Plaintiffs filed the
instant motion before the parties had an opportunity to the meet and confer.  Defendants assert that they requested
Plaintiffs’ availability to further meet and confer and suggested several
dates, but Defendants have not received a response from Plaintiffs’ counsel.
(Abouesh Decl., ¶ 4.)  
Counsel are ORDERED
to make further efforts to resolve the issues presented. If, after exhausting
those efforts, court intervention is needed, counsel may appear and argue the
merits on the continued hearing date. If counsel are unable to informally
resolve their discovery disputes, then counsel are instructed to submit a JOINT
STATEMENT with a detailed outline of the remaining disputed issues for
which a ruling is required. The joint statement must be FILED on or before May
24, 2024.  
 