 Case Number:  24NWCV01111    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  C Concha,
et al. vs. Arakelian, Trustee of the Michael Arakelian Living Trust, et al.,
Case No. 24NWCV01111
 
This
action arises out of the sale of an allegedly defective home. Plaintiffs Arturo
Concha and Erika De La Teja move ex parte for a temporary restraining order and
order to show cause re preliminary injunction enjoining Defendant from selling,
auctioning, transferring, disposing of, or encumbering the real property
subject to dispute, a.k.a. 16275 Aurora Crest Drive, Whittier, California 90605
(“the Property”).  A trustee’s sale is scheduled for April 17,2024.  
 
On
April 10, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a Complaint for Temporary Restraining Order,
Preliminary and Permanent Injunctions, and Damages.  The Complaint alleges
that in September 2022, Plaintiffs and Defendant entered into a California
Residential Purchase Agreement and Joint Escrow Instructions for the Property.
(Complaint ¶ 13.)  The gravamen of their Complaint is that Defendant
failed to disclose, and instead actively concealed, water intrusion of which he
was aware, resulting in damages to the Plaintiffs. (Id., ¶ 54.)
Plaintiffs assert they are entitled to offset these damages under the Note (Id.,
¶ 55.) and will suffer irreparable harm if Defendant is allowed to proceed with
the Trustee’s Sale (Id., ¶ 60.).  
 
Defendant
argues that the core factual allegations in the Complaint – Defendant’s failure
to disclose water intrusion -- do not support the relief Plaintiffs seek in
this ex parte application – enjoining the foreclosure sale.  That is
because the foreclosure sale is based upon Plaintiff’s default on the note,
which Plaintiffs do not contest.  Plaintiffs argue that they have made
significant repairs to the home because of the undisclosed water damage, and
they are entitled to offset those damages under the note.  Yet, they cite
no authority for such an entitlement.  Therefore, Plaintiffs have failed
to demonstrate that the relief they are seeking in their ex parte application
is within the scope of relief likely to be obtained at trial on the merits. (Common
Cause v. Board of Supervisors (1989) 49 Cal.3d 432, 442.)  
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s application for ex parte relief is DENIED. 
 
Moving
party to give Notice.  
 
 