 Case Number:  23NWCV02460    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  C Viridiana Aranda vs Trojan Battery Company, et
al.
Case No.: 23NWCV02460
Hearing Date: April 16, 2024 @ 9:30 AM 
 
#5
Tentative Ruling 
Defendant
Roth Staffing Companies, LP’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and for Stay of
Action is DENIED. 
Plaintiff to give notice. 
 
Defendant Trojan Battery Company has joined in the motion.
 
Background 
This case involves claims of sexual harassment, sexual
battery, and sexual assault by Plaintiff Viridiana Aranda (“Plaintiff”) against
her former employers Trojan Battery Company, LLC (“TBC”), Roth Staffing
Companies, LP (“Roth”) (collectively, “Defendants”), and Plaintiff’s former
coworker Abraham Cazares (“Mr. Cazares”) after she endured alleged sexual
advances, groping, and inappropriate conduct during her employment.
Request for Judicial Notice and Evidentiary
Objections
Judicial Notice 
Defendants request judicial notice of Plaintiff’s
Compliant. Given that the Compliant is already a part of the judicial record in
this action, the Court declines to take judicial notice at this time. 
Evidentiary Objections 
Defendant Trojan Battery Company, LLC submits
evidentiary objections. 
The Court rules as follows: 
Objection Nos. 1, 2, 3, and 4 are OVERRULED. 
Objection No. 5 is SUSTAINED. 
Defendant Roth Staffing Company submits
evidentiary objections. 
The Court rules as follows: 
Objection Nos. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 are
OVERRULED.  
Objection Nos. 1, 10, and 11 are SUSTAINED.
Legal Standard 
Defendants
move to compel arbitration pursuant to an Arbitration Agreement entered into
between Roth and Plaintiff as part of Plaintiff’s onboarding process with Roth.  
 
California
law reflects a strong public policy in favor of arbitration as a relatively
quick and inexpensive method for resolving disputes. To further that policy,
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 requires a trial court to
enforce a written arbitration agreement unless one of three limited exceptions
applies. Those statutory exceptions arise where (1) a party waives the right to
arbitration; (2) grounds exist for revoking the arbitration agreement; and (3)
pending litigation with a third party creates the possibility of conflicting
rulings on common factual or legal issues.” (Acquire II, Ltd. v. Colton Real
Estate Group (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 959, 967 [citations omitted]; Code Civ.
Proc. § 1281.2.) 
 
In
deciding a petition to compel arbitration, trial courts must decide first
whether an enforceable arbitration agreement exists between the parties, and
then determine the second gateway issue whether the claims are covered within
the scope of the agreement. (Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118
Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) The party seeking arbitration has the “burden of proving
the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the
evidence, while a party opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a
preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its defense.” (Ruiz v.
Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 842.)¿The trial
court “sits as the trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations,
and other documentary evidence, and any oral testimony the court may receive at
its discretion, to reach a final determination.” (Id.) General
principles of contract law govern whether parties have entered a binding
agreement to arbitrate. (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market
Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236; see also Winter v.
Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.)¿ 
 
Discussion 
 
Existence of
a Valid Arbitration Agreement
Here, Roth
attaches a copy of the arbitration agreement. 
As part of Plaintiff’s onboarding process with Roth,
Plaintiff was provided with Roth Staffing’s Ambassador Handbook (i.e., employee
handbook), which includes a three-page document entitled, “Mutual Arbitration
Agreement.” (Garduno Decl., ¶¶ 4-5, Exh. A.) 
The opening paragraph of the Mutual Arbitration Agreement
states, in part: 
“Except as otherwise provided
in this Mutual Arbitration Agreement (“Agreement”) and to the fullest extent
allowed by law, any controversy, claim or dispute between you and Roth Staffing
Companies, L.P., which includes Ultimate Staffing Services, Ledgent Finance
& Accounting, Adams & Martin Group, Ledgent Technology, About Talent,
and/or any of their affiliates, divisions, owners, shareholders, directors,
partners, members, officers, employees, volunteers or agents (collectively, the
“Company”), relating to or arising out of your employment or the cessation of
that employment will be submitted to final and binding arbitration before a
neutral arbitrator in the county in which you work(ed) for determination
pursuant to the Federal Arbitration Act, and administered by JAMS in accordance
with JAMS’ Employment Arbitration Rules and Procedures (which can be accessed
at www.jamsadr.com/rules-employmentarbitration), as the exclusive remedy for
such controversy, claim or dispute.”
(Garduno Decl., Ex. A. at p. 33.)
The Mutual Arbitration Agreement also specifies that it
“covers, but is not limited to claims of unpaid wages, breach of contract,
torts, violation of public policy, discrimination, harassment, or any other
employment-related claims under laws including but not limited to … the
California Fair Employment and Housing Act[.]” (Garduno Decl., Ex. A. at p.
33.)
The concluding portion of the Mutual Arbitration Agreement,
which precedes the signature line, states in boldface text: “I HEREBY
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT I HAVE READ, UNDERSTAND, AND AGREE TO THE FOREGOING. I AGREE
TO USE AN ELECTRONIC SIGNATURE TO DEMONSTATE MY ACCEPTANCE OF THIS MUTUAL
ARBITRATION AGREEMENT. I UNDERSTAND THAT AN ELECTRONIC SIGNATURE IS AS LEGALLY
BINDING AS AN INK SIGNATURE.” (Ibid. [emphasis in original].)
Plaintiff inserted her electronic initials onto every page
of the Mutual Arbitration Agreement and inserted her printed name and
electronic signature on the signature page. (Garduno Decl., ¶¶ 4-5, Exh. A.)
The agreement was fully executed on January 10, 2022. (Ibid.)
Accordingly, the Court finds that there is a valid
arbitration agreement. 
Defenses 
 
While
Plaintiff does not dispute the existence or authenticity of the arbitration agreement,
she argues that arbitration is precluded by the Ending Forced Arbitration of
Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act of 2021 (the “EFAA”).  Signed into law on
March 3, 2022, the EFAA amends the Federal Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C. § 1, et
seq., and renders unenforceable (at option of person alleging assault or
harassment) pre-dispute arbitration agreements relating to claims of sexual
assault or sexual harassment:¿ 
 
Notwithstanding any
other provision of this title, at the election of the person alleging conduct
constituting a sexual harassment dispute or sexual assault dispute, or the
named representative of a class or in a collective action alleging such
conduct, no predispute arbitration agreement or predispute joint-action waiver
shall be valid or enforceable with respect to a case which is filed under
Federal, Tribal, or State law and relates to the sexual assault dispute or the
sexual harassment dispute.¿(9 U.S.C. § 402, subd. (a).) 
 
The
effective date of the EFAA is March 3, 2022. 
“This Act, and the amendments made by this Act, shall apply with respect
to any dispute or claim that arises or accrues on or after the date of
enactment of this Act.” (PL 117-90, March 3, 2022, 136 Stat 26, emphasis
added.)¿ 
 
Here,
the events constituting Plaintiff’s sexual battery and sexual assault claims
occurred on March 9, 2022 (FAC ¶¶ 32-33.), six days after the EFAA was enacted.  
 
Roth
argues that the EFAA should not apply because Plaintiff’s original complaint
establishes that Plaintiff possessed enough information to believe she had been
subjected to unlawful conduct by mid-February of 2022.  Defendants point to language in the original
complaint which alleges “Around Mid-February, Ms. Aranda felt [Defendant
Cazares’s] pervasive behavior had gone on too far.” (Complaint ¶ 25.) This
language, as Defendants point out, is omitted from the FAC.  However, the acts which occurred before
mid-February as alleged in the original complaint did not amount to
touching.  Like the FAC, the original
complaint also alleged that a sexual battery and sexual assault occurred on
March 9, 2022.  The gravamen of
Plaintiff’s causes of action, in both the original complaint and the FAC, involve
allegations of sexual battery and sexual assault that occurred on March 9,
2022.  The fact that some unlawful
conduct is alleged to have occurred before the EFAA’s enactment does not
preclude its application.  Under these
circumstances, the Court determines that arbitration is prohibited under the
EFAA.  
 
Roth
also argues that to the extent the arbitration agreement does not apply under
federal law, it should be enforceable under California law. However, the EFAA
makes clear that no “predispute arbitration agreement or predispute
joint-action waiver shall be valid or enforceable with respect to a case which
is filed under Federal, Tribal, or State law.” (9 U.S. Code § 402(a).)
Accordingly, the EFAA supersedes California law.  
 
TBC
argues that to the extent the Court determines the EFAA applies, Plaintiff must
be compelled to Arbitrate all claims not subject to the EFA. This would include
all causes of action besides the seventh and eight causes of action for sexual
assault and sexual battery.  Clearly, the causes of action in the FAC relate
to common factual allegations and outline a course of conduct of sexual
harassment.  While the alleged conduct
may give rise to separate causes of action, the conduct is founded on
allegations of sexual harassment as defined by the Act. Therefore, the Court
rejects TBC’s attempt to exclude the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth,
ninth, and tenth causes of action from the protections of the Act.
Accordingly,
the motion to compel arbitration and for stay of action is DENIED.  
 