 Case Number:  23NWCV01652    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  C Jessica Solis vs The Raymond Corporation, et.
al
Case No.: 23NWCV01652
Hearing Date: April 16, 2024 @ 9:30 AM 
 
#3
Tentative Ruling 
Prospective Intervenor Sedgwick’s Motion for
Leave to Intervene is GRANTED.
Intervenor to give notice. 
 
The motion is unopposed as of April 15, 2024.
 
Background 
This case arises from a June 6, 2021 accident, where
Plaintiff Jessica Solis was injured when a forklift allegedly malfunctioned
causing personal injuries. 
Prospective Intervener Sedgwick is the workers’
compensation administrator that insured Jessica Solis’ employer, Clutter Inc.
The intervenor provides payments for any and all liability for workers’
compensation benefits imposed upon it by the workers’ compensation laws of the
state of California.
 
Legal Standard 
Intervention is permitted when “[t]he person seeking
intervention claims an interest relating to the property or transaction that is
the subject of the action and that person is so situated that the disposition
of the action may impair or impede that person's ability to protect that
interest, unless that person's interest is adequately represented by one or
more of the existing parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (d)(1)(B).)
Whether the petitioner has an interest in the matter in litigation is a question
of fact that must be determined by the court before leave to file is
granted.  (Muller v. Robinson (1959)
174 Cal.App.2d 511, 515; In re Yokohama Special Bank (1948) 86
Cal.App.2d 545.) The burden rests on the one seeking to intervene to show that
this is a proper case for intervention. (Id. at 515.)
Discussion 
Sedgwick seeks an order permitting it to intervene and
defend this action on behalf of Defendant Clutter Logistics, Inc. It argues
intervention is necessary to protect its interests and the interests of its
insured. 
Sedgwick argues it has a direct and immediate interest in
this action because should Plaintiff obtain a judgment against Defendant
Clutter, Inc., it may be liable under Insurance Code Section 3852. Insurance
Code Section 3852 provides: “any employer who pays, or becomes obligated to pay
compensation, or who pays, or becomes obligated to pay salary in lieu of
compensation, or who pays or becomes obligated to pay an amount to the
Department of Industrial Relations pursuant to Section 4706.5, may likewise
make a claim or bring an action against the third person. In the latter event,
the employer may recover in the same suit, in addition to the total amount of
compensation, damages for which he or she was liable including all salary,
wage, pension, or other emolument paid to the employee or to his or her
dependents.”
Further, Sedgwick contends it has paid the following
benefits to Plaintiff Jessica Solis in the underlying workers’ compensation
case: medical: $40,700.52; indemnity (loss of earnings): $44,251.23; total:
$84,951.75.
The Court finds that Sedgwick has demonstrated it has an
interest in this action as it may be required to satisfy a judgment rendered
against Defendant Clutter, Inc. Further, Intervention will not enlarge the
issues in this action as Sedgwick merely seeks to assert a defense on Defendant
Clutter, Inc.’s behalf. 
Accordingly, Prospective Intervenor Sedgwick’s Motion for
Leave to Intervene is GRANTED. 
 