 Case Number:  22STCV06438    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31  HEARING DATE:     October 1, 2024                                 TRIAL DATE:  January 27, 2025                                                          CASE:                         Sunset and Vine Apartments, LLC v. Guardian Advisors LLC, et al. CASE NO.:                 22STCV06438  MOTION FOR SANCTIONS AND INJUNCTIVE RELIEF AGAINST DEFENDANTS AKBH LLC AND URBINO CONSTRUCTION, INC.      MOVING PARTIES:           Plaintiff Sunset and Vine Apartments, LLC RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendant Urbino Construction, Inc., Intervenor Next Insurance, Inc., and Defendant AKBH LLC  I.         FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND             On February 2, 2022, plaintiff Sunset and Vine Apartments, LLC (Plaintiff) filed this action against Defendants Guardian Advisors, LLC, Urbino Construction, Inc. (Urbino), and AKBH LLC (AKBH), among others, for damages sustained to Plaintiff’s property known as 5816 La Mirada Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90038 (the Property) arising from the removal of lateral and subjacent support.  Residential buildings are situated on the Property.  AKBH is the owner of a neighboring property located at 5814 La Mirada Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90038 (Neighbor’s Property).  Later, the court granted an unopposed motion to intervene by Next Insurance, Inc. (Intervenor) to defend Guardian Advisors, LLC, a suspended corporation, in this action. On October 19, 2023, a boundary survey was performed of the Neighbor’s Property, which showed a portion of the Neighbor’s Property extended over the shared property line and encroached on the Property.  Defendants were aware of the encroachment and the survey since at least January 8, 2024. (Sayer Dec., ¶ 6., filed in support of the April 30, 2024, Ex Parte Application.) On April 11, 2024, Plaintiff’s tenant took a video of workers trespassing on the Property, placing tarps over Plaintiff’s tenants’ windows and other egress points, and, using jackhammers, drilled into the foundation of the Neighbor’s Property with encroaching on the Property.  The workers were hired by Defendants. On April 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed an ex parte application for injunctive relief and an order specially setting a hearing on motion for issue and evidentiary sanctions against Defendants AKBH and Urbino.  Plaintiff sought a temporary restraining order to immediately restrain and enjoin Defendants from further construction activities at the Neighbor’s Property.  On May 5, 2024, the court granted the ex parte application and specially set a hearing for Plaintiff’s motion concerning issue or evidentiary or monetary sanctions for July 16, 2024.  On June 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed this Supplemental Motion for Sanctions and Injunctive Relief Against Defendants AKHB and Urbino.[1] On July 2, 2024, AKBH, Urbino, and Intervenor (hereafter, Defendants) filed an opposition. On July 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply.  After several continuances, the hearing is scheduled for October 1, 2024. On September 23, 2024, the court issued a stipulated order for preliminary injunction which, as relevant here, restrains and enjoins AKBH from blocking the driveway associated with the Property and restrains and enjoins Urbino from performing any construction work on the Neighbor’s Property so long as Urbino’s license remains suspended. On September 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed a supplemental brief in support of the motion for sanctions and injunctive relief.  On September 25, 2024, Defendants filed on objection to Plaintiff’s supplemental brief.   The court rules as follows. II.        LEGAL STANDARD             “Spoliation of evidence means the destruction or significant alteration of evidence or the failure to preserve evidence for another’s use in pending or future litigation.”¿ (Williams v. Russ (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1223 (Williams).)¿ “Such conduct is condemned because it ‘can destroy fairness and justice, for it increases the risk of an erroneous decision on the merits of the underlying cause of action.  Destroying evidence can also increase the costs of litigation as parties attempt to reconstruct the destroyed evidence or to develop other evidence, which may be less accessible, less persuasive, or both.’”¿ (Id.)¿ Where there is evidence of willful suppression, the court may instruct the jury: “You may consider whether one party intentionally concealed or destroyed evidence.  If you decide that a party did so, you may decide that evidence would have been unfavorable to that party.”  (CACI No. 204; see also BAJI 2.03; see Cedars-Sinai Med. Ctr. v. Superior Court (1998) 18 Cal.4th 1, 11-12.)¿ ¿ “[A] party moving for discovery sanctions based on the spoliation of evidence must make an initial prima facie showing that the responding party in fact had destroyed evidence that had a substantial probability of damaging the moving party’s ability to establish an essential element of his claim or defense.”¿ (Williams, 167 Cal.App.4th at p. 1227.)¿ Once the moving party meets that burden, the burden shifts to the responding party to prove the moving party did not suffer prejudice from the loss of the evidence.¿ (Id. at pp. 1226-27.)¿ Discovery sanctions “should be appropriate to the dereliction, and should not exceed that which is required to protect the interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery.”¿ (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 793.)¿  III.      DISCUSSION             As framed by Plaintiff’s supplemental brief, filed September 24, 2024, the only remaining issue to be decided is whether Defendants destroyed evidence giving rise to the imposition of sanctions.  Specifically, the issue is whether Defendants destroyed evidence of an alleged encroachment onto Plaintiff’s Property.[2] In late 2023, a boundary survey of the Neighbor’s Property showed a portion of the Neighbor’s Property extended over the shared property line and encroached on the Property.  Defendants were notified of the same by January 8, 2024.  Fast forward to April 2024, Plaintiff learns from one of its tenants that workers trespassed onto the Property, placed tarps over the windows of Plaintiff’s tenants’ windows, and jackhammered the Neighbor’s Property’s wall which adjoins the Property.  The work was done on the very portion of wall that Plaintiff contends encroached onto the Property.  Plaintiff argues the construction work on the subject area makes it impossible for Plaintiff to prove the encroachment.  In support, Plaintiff submits video, photos, and a survey of the Neighbor’s Property, among other documents.  (See Compendium of Exhibits ISO Plaintiff’s Supplemental Motion.)   Plaintiff does not meet its burden.  The touchstone of a spoliation argument is the destruction of evidence that has a “substantial probability of damaging the moving party’s ability to establish an essential element of his claim or defense.”  (Williams, supra, 167 Cal.App.4th at p. 1227.)  Plaintiff’s claim is that the rectangular wall is encroaching on Plaintiff’s property (above ground and below).  Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s April 11, 2024 jackhammering impairs its ability to establish the encroachment.  A comparative review of Exhibits J and L submitted in Plaintiff’s Compendium of Exhibits, however, demonstrates that Defendants’ jackhammering did not eviscerate the wall.  The wall remains where it was, albeit pockmarked across the vertical surface and slightly undermined at the juncture of the wall and floor.  But there is ample evidence of the above ground wall for an expert to opine whether the wall is encroaching.[3]  Defendant has not “destroyed” the evidence.  The wall is still there.  Accordingly, there are no grounds to support Plaintiff’s request for sanctions for spoliation of evidence. IV.       CONCLUSION  The Motion for Sanctions is DENIED.    Defendants to give notice. Dated:   October 1, 2024                                      Kerry Bensinger    Judge of the Superior Court  