 Case Number:  24STCV05772    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31  HEARING DATE:     October 1, 2024                                             TRIAL DATE:  Not set                                                          CASE:                         Howard Scott Jordan II, et al. v. Irina Ioana Ciochiu, et al. CASE NO.:                 24STCV5772  STATUS CONFERENCE RE: JURISDICTIONAL DISCOVERY  I.         INTRODUCTION             On March 7, 2024, Plaintiffs Howard Scott Jordan II and FlightHelp (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed a Complaint against Defendants Irina Ciochiu (Irina), Ion Ciochiu, and Wynn Capital Management SRL (Wynn) for (1) fraud, (2) breach of fiduciary duty, (3) conversion, (4) breach of partnership agreement, (5) unfair competition, (6) violations of Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200, et seq. (7) partnership dissolution (Corp. Code § 16801), (8) violations of Penal Code § 496, (9) accounting, and (10) breach of contract.  Plaintiffs later filed amendments to the complaint naming International Flight Help Management, Inc. as Doe 1 and Flight Help Management, LLC as Doe 2.  On May 13, 2024, Wynn filed a motion to quash service of summons and complaint and to dismiss for lack of personal jurisdiction.  The motion was heard on August 15, 2024.  After taking the matter under submission, the court issued a ruling granting Plaintiffs’ request for leave to conduct jurisdictional discovery.  The court directed Plaintiffs to submit a discovery plan and concurrently continued the hearing for Wynn’s motion to quash.  The court set a status conference for October 1, 2024, to resolve any dispute, if any, regarding Plaintiffs’ proposed discovery plan.   On September 5, 2024, Plaintiffs filed its discovery plan.  Defendants Wynn and Irina filed timely their objection to the plan.  Plaintiffs responded.  The court now rules as follows. II.        DISCUSSION A.   Plaintiffs’ Proposed Jurisdictional Discovery Plan           1.     Written Discovery a.     35 Requests for Admission, 35 Special Interrogatories, 35 Requests for Production of Documents to Defendants Irina and Wynnb.     Subpoena for financial documents pertaining to Doe Defendants International Flighthelp Management, Inc. and Flighthelp Management LLCc.     Purpose:[1]·      Irina and Ion’s roles and relationship with Wynn·      Georgiana Tesileanu’s (Irina’s sister and Ion’s daughter, hereafter “Geo”) roles and relationship with Wynn.·      How Irina, acting on Wynn’s behalf, directed Jordan to target California while she was in Los Angeles. This discovery will demonstrate that Wynn, directed by Irina from Los Angeles, deliberately exploited California’s market and purposefully instructed Jordan to code its website to solicit and consummate transactions with California residents.·      Wynn’s continuing obligations to California residents, including Ms. Jinny Oh. This discovery will evidence how the power of attorneys created continuing obligations, and how Wynn took steps to process and press the claims after Irina directed its agents from Los Angeles to do so.·      To establish Irina, acting on Wynn’s behalf, interviewed California residents from her Los Angeles residence for the purpose of engaging them to render services for Wynn.·      To establish whether Wynn created a subsidiary.·      To seek admissions that Wynn’s actual place of business during the relevant period has been Irina’s Los Angeles residence.·      To seek admissions concerning the specific dates that Irina and Ion were in Los Angeles throughout 2022-2024, and what they did in Los Angeles in connection with their roles in Wynn, for the purpose of establishing that Wynn’s “nerve center” during the relevant period was in Los Angeles.·      To establish Geo was acting on Wynn’s behalf in Romania while Irina and Ion were acting on Wynn’s behalf in Los Angeles·      To establish that DOE Defendants International Flight Help Management Inc. and Flight Help Management, LLC are Irina’s agents and are being used in a manner establishing that Wynn and these Doe Defendants are mere instrumentalities or alter egos of Irina with a presence in California.   2.     Depositions: If responses to written discovery show depositions are necessary, Plaintiffs may seek to depose the following persons:a.     Party Depositions: Irina, Ion, and Geo, and possibly certain Wynn employees or affiliates who are believed to have personal knowledge concerning Irina and Ion’s whereabouts and their acting on Wynn’s behalf from Los Angeles.b.     Topics: As described above.c.     Nonparty Depositions:·      Jinny Oh and James Cho: California residents who were targeted by Wynn to do work for it and who may have actually done work on Wynn’s behalf.  Wynn also owes a continuing obligation to Oh in the form of a power of attorney signed by Oh and authorizing Wynn to act on her behalf with her flight claims.·      Summer Chen (Irina’s daughter)·      Jason Fladlien (a marketer who is believed to be providing services to Wynn within the scope of Jordan’s roles alleged in the complaint and Irina’s husband)·      Elshalyn Anne Masula, Lyka Asher Mangampo: residents of the Philippines who are contracted with Wynn to move the claims process forward.·      Gabriela Sandica: a Wynn employee in Romania acting at Irina’s direction·      Anatolii Shumanskyi and Andrew Franco: California residents to which Wynn owes continuing obligations in the form of powers of attorney. B.    Defendants Irina and Wynn’s Response  Defendants argue Plaintiffs’ plan, which is simultaneously overbroad and too narrow in scope, is designed to harass Defendants.  They argue Plaintiffs do not demonstrate how the written discovery or depositions will uncover information about Wynn’s “continuous and systematic” contacts with California.  In particular, Plaintiffs take issue with the proposed depositions of Irina’s daughter, Summer Chen, Irina’s husband, Jason Fladlien, and other non-parties James Cho, Jinny Oh, Elshalyn Anne, Andrew Franco, Lyka Asher Mangampo, and Anatolii Shumanskyi.  Defendants also take issue with Plaintiffs intent to subpoena records from Doe Defendants. Defendants contend the discovery should be limited to (1) a total of 15 written discovery requests to Wynn only, and (2) no more than one deposition of three hours of a party to this action, to be conducted only after written discovery responses have been served. C.    Court’s Ruling The court agrees in part with Defendants.  Much of the discovery plan is overbroad.  Indeed, Plaintiff failed to attach drafts of the proposed subpoenas to Doe Defendants for the court’s review, especially given the Doe Defendants are in default.  Simply, alleging alter-ego does not throw open wide the door for jurisdictional discovery.  However, the court finds Plaintiffs’ proposal to propound written discovery to Wynn and Irina to be reasonable, albeit the court restricts the number to: 25 Requests for Admission, 25 Special Interrogatories, and 20 Requests for Production of Documents to Defendants Wynn and Irina. As to the depositions, the request is considerably over broad.  Plaintiff should rethink its request.  The court will nonetheless defer its ruling on the depositions pending Defendants’ responses to written discovery.  Plaintiff will need to submit a supplemental brief at least 7 court days in advance of the December 2, 2024 hearing, identifying each deponent separately, the basis to seek jurisdictional discovery from that proposed deponent, the time requested for the deposition.      III.      CONCLUSION Plaintiffs may propound 25 Requests for Admission, 25 Special Interrogatories, and 20 Requests for Production of Documents to Defendants Irina and Wynn.  The court defers its ruling on the depositions. The Status Conference re: Jurisdictional Discovery is CONTINUED to December 2, 2024.   Defendant Wynn Capital Management, SRL’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons is CONTINUED to December 2, 2024. Plaintiffs to give notice.  Dated:   October 1, 2024                                      Kerry Bensinger    Judge of the Superior Court            