 Case Number:  23STCV27962    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     April
3, 2024                                                  TRIAL DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Eun Jung Lim v. AOOS Sign Inc.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV27962
 





















 
DEMURRER
WITHOUT MOTION TO STRIKE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants
AOOS Sign Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Eun
Jung Lim
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On November
 15, 2023, Plaintiff Eun Jung Lim
(“Plaintiff” or “Lim”), filed a Complaint against Defendant AOOS Sign, Inc. (“AOOS”),
alleging causes of action for: 
 
1.     
Failure to Provide Rest Periods
2.     
Failure to Provide Meal Periods
3.     
Failure to Furnish Timely and
Accurate Itemized Wage Statements
4.     
Failure to Pay Minimum Wages
5.     
Failure to Pay Overtime Wages 
6.     
Retaliation in Violation of
California Labor Code § 98.6
7.     
Retaliation in Violation of
California Labor Code § 1102.5
8.     
Wrongful Termination in Violation of
Public Policy
9.     
Failure to Pay Compensation Due Upon
Separation
 
            As alleged
in the Complaint, Lim was employed by AOOS as a Social Media Specialist.  During her employment, AOOS did not provide timely
wage statements, failed to compensate Lim for completing work assignments
outside of work hours, often failed to provide Lim with statutorily required
30-minute meal breaks, and never informed Lim that she was entitled to a
10-minute rest break for every four hours worked.  On September 14, 2023, Lim learned from a
co-worker about the 10-minute rest breaks. 
On the same day, Lim complained to AOOS office manager, David Chen
(“Chen”), that she was never told about the 10-minute rest breaks.  On September 15, 2023, Lim informed Chen and AOOS
Chief Executive Officer, Yangbo Qu (“Qu”) that she would begin taking her
10-minute rest breaks starting that day. 
On the same day, Lim received an email from Qu officially terminating
Lim’s employment because her “performance and conduct in [her] role are no
longer suitable for the company’s needs.”
 
            On January
19, 2024, AOOS filed this Demurrer to the alter-ego allegations and each cause
of action in the Complaint.
 
            Plaintiff
filed an opposition.  AOOS replied.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD FOR DEMURRER
            A demurrer
tests the legal sufficiency of the pleadings and will be sustained only where
the pleading is defective on its face.¿ (City of Atascadero v. Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459.)¿
“We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.¿ We accept the factual
allegations of the complaint as true and also consider matters which may be
judicially noticed.¿ [Citation.]”¿ (Mitchell v. California Department of
Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del E. Webb Corp. v.
Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the facts alleged
in the pleading are deemed to be true, however improbable they may be”].)
Allegations are to be liberally construed.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.)¿ In
construing the allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual
allegations that may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory
allegations.¿ (Financial Corporation of America v. Wilburn (1987) 189
Cal.App.3d 764, 769.)¿¿If the cause of action is based
in statute, the facts supporting each statutory requirement must be
specifically pled. (Fisher v. San Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214
Cal.App.3d 590, 604.)
            A demurrer
may be brought if insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action
asserted.¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).)  “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly
construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because
ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.”¿(Khoury v.
Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)¿¿¿ 
            Where the
complaint contains substantial factual allegations sufficiently apprising
defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for uncertainty
will be overruled or plaintiff will be given leave to amend.¿ (Williams v.
Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)¿ Leave to
amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment.¿ (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿ The burden
is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended
successfully. (Ibid.)¿
III.       DISCUSSION
 
            Meet and Confer
 
            “Before filing a demurrer pursuant
to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person, by
telephone, or by video conference with the party who filed the pleading that is
subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be
reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)¿ Defense counsel has complied with the meet
and confer requirement.  (See Declaration
of Airene Williamson, ¶¶ 5-9.)
 
            Analysis
 
AOOS demurs to the
alter-ego allegations and each cause of action. 
The court addresses each in turn. 
 
1.     
Alter-Ego
 
“Ordinarily, a
corporation is regarded as a legal entity, separate and distinct from its
stockholders, officers and directors, with separate and distinct liabilities
and obligations. [T]he corporate form will be disregarded only in narrowly
defined circumstances and only when the ends of justice so require.  Before a corporation's obligations can be
recognized as those of a particular person, the requisite unity of interest and
inequitable result must be shown. These factors comprise the elements that must
be present for liability as an alter ego.” (Leek v. Cooper (2011) 194
Cal.App.4th 399, 411 (cleaned up).) To properly plead alter ego, a plaintiff
“must allege sufficient facts to show a unity of interest and ownership, and an
unjust result if the corporation is treated as the sole actor.” (Id. at
p. 415.)
 
Here, the Complaint alleges:
 
Plaintiff is informed and believes
and thereon alleges that, at all relevant times mentioned herein, each
defendant was an alter-ego of each and every other defendant. Unity of interest
and ownership existed such that the separate personalities each of defendant
never existed or ceased to exist. Further, if the acts are treated as those of
one of the defendants alone, an inequitable result will follow. Accordingly,
Plaintiff alleges that each defendant was an alter-ego of each and every other
defendant and vice versa. 
 
By way of this lawsuit, Plaintiff
seeks to pierce the corporate veil and hold the individual defendant liable for
the acts of his or her alter ego. The individual defendant held and now holds
substantial interest in the corporate defendants and should therefore be deemed
to be corporate defendants’ alter ego. The corporate defendants were, and now
still are, mere shells and naked frameworks which the individual defendant
used, and now uses, as a conduit for the conduct of his or her personal
business and/or property affairs and/or obligor for the assumption of
obligations and/or liabilities incapable of performance by said corporate
and/or entity defendants, which are the obligations and liabilities of the
individual defendant.
 
(Complaint, ¶¶ 5,
6.)
 
            AOOS argues these allegations are unsupported
by any facts and are therefore subject to demurrer.  The court agrees.  The alter-ego allegations are conclusory and
devoid of any facts to apprise AOOS of the basis for Lim’s claims.  
 
Lim contends that
she has properly pleaded each element for alter-ego liability.  Lim misses the point.  There are no factual allegations to
show whether a unity of interest exists or an inequitable result will follow if
corporate separateness is respected.  The
absence of facts deprives AOOS of notice for the basis for Lim’s alter-ego
theory. 
 
Lim further contends
a demurrer attacks causes of action, not an alter-ego allegation.  Because alter-ego theory is not itself a
claim, Lim contends the demurrer should be overruled as to these
allegations.  The law is otherwise. Under
Leek, supra, a plaintiff “must allege sufficient facts
to show a unity of interest and ownership, and an unjust result if the
corporation is treated as the sole actor.” (Leek, at p. 415,
emphasis added.)  The Complaint does not
so allege.
 
AOOS’s demurrer to
the alter-ego allegations is SUSTAINED.
 
A.    
1st Cause of Action: Failure to Provide
Rest Periods [California Labor Code § 226.7]
 
The First Cause of
Action is based on the following allegations: AOOS never informed Lim that she
was entitled to a 10-minute rest break and was never given an uninterrupted
10-minute rest break (Complaint, ¶¶ 8, 10, 11).
 
 AOOS argues the First Cause of Action fails
because Lim does not identify which of the fifteen Industrial Wage Commission
(IWC) Wage Orders that applies to Lim.  
 
To establish a
rest break violation, a plaintiff must prove both of the following:
 
1.     
That
the plaintiff worked for the defendant on one or more workdays for at least
three and one-half hours; and
2.     
That
defendant did not authorize and permit to take one or more 10-minute rest
breaks to which plaintiff was entitled.
 
(CACI No. 2761.)
            
Contrary to AOOS’s
argument, there is no requirement that a plaintiff plead the applicable IWC
Wage Order to state a cause of action for failure to provide rest periods.  Moreover, the allegations are sufficient.  Specifically, the Complaint alleges that Lim
was never able to take her rest breaks during her employment or paid rest break
premiums.  (Complaint, ¶ 8.)
 
The demurrer to the
First Cause of Action is OVERRULED. 
 
B.    
2nd Cause of Action: Failure to Provide
Rest Periods [California Labor Code § 226.7 and 512]
 
The Second Cause
of Action is based on the following allegations: (1) Lim’s meal breaks were
often less than 30 minutes or she never took one because of the amount of work
to do, and (2) Chen would often interrupt Lim’s meal break and once instructed
Lim to use her lunch break to run errands for AOOS.  (Complaint, ¶ 7.)
 
            To establish a meal break violation,
the plaintiff must prove both of the following:
 
1.     
That
the plaintiff worked for defendant for one or more workdays for a period
lasting longer than five hours; and
2.     
That
defendant did not provide the plaintiff with the opportunity to take a timely
uninterrupted meal break of at least 30 minutes for each five-hour period
worked.
 
(CACI No. 2766A.)
 
Like the First
Cause of Action, AOOS again asserts the Second Cause of Action fails because
Lim does not identify which of the fifteen Industrial Wage Commission (IWC)
Wage Orders that applies to Lim.  However,
there is no requirement that a plaintiff plead the applicable IWC Wage Order to
state a cause of action for a meal break violation.  Moreover, the allegations are sufficient.  Specifically, the Complaint alleges that Chen
frequently interfered with Lim’s meal break such that she took less than 30-minutes
in her meal period, or not at all.
 
The demurrer to
the Second Cause of Action is OVERRULED.
 
C.    
3rd Cause of Action: Failure to Furnish
Timely and Accurate Itemized Wage Statements [California Labor Code § 226]
 
            The Third Cause of Action is based
on the allegations that AOOS did not provide Lim with wage statements when
paying her wages by direct deposit.  Lim
received the wage statements only upon request. 
Further, AOOS did not furnish Lim with accurate wage statements because
AOOS never paid Lim rest break or meal break premiums. (See FAC, ¶¶ 4-5, 32.)  Further 
 
“Labor Code
section 226, subdivision (a), lists the information that an employer must
include on nonexempt employees' pay statements. Section 226, subdivision (e),
entitles employees “suffering injury as a result of a knowing and intentional
failure by an employer to comply” to recover the greater of actual damages or
fifty dollars for an initial violation and one hundred dollars for subsequent
violations, plus costs and reasonable attorney’s fees.” (Murphy v. Kenneth
Cole Prods., Inc. (2007) 40 Cal.4th 1094, 1101, fn. 1.)  “An employee is deemed to suffer injury for
purposes of this subdivision if the employer fails to provide a wage statement.”  (Lab. Code, § 226, subd. (e)(2)(A).)
 
AOOS argues the Third
Cause of Action fails because, as alleged, Lim eventually had access to and did
receive her wage statements.  (See Complaint,
¶ 4.)  The argument misses the mark.  Under the plain terms of Labor Code section
226, a violation occurs when an employer does not furnish either “semimonthly
or at the time of each payment of wages, . . . an accurate itemized
statement….”  (Lab. Code, § 226, subd. (a).)  The Complaint so alleges.  An employer also violates Labor Code section
226 where, as is alleged here, it fails to provide an accurate itemized
statement.  (See Lab. Code, § 226, subd.
(e)(2)(B).)  
 
The demurrer to
the Third Cause of Action is therefore OVERRULED.
 
D.    4th Cause of Action: Failure to Pay Minimum
Wages [California Labor Code §§ 1194, 1194.2] 

 
The Fourth Cause
of Action is based on the allegations that Lim worked on a film project for
AOOS outside of work hours for which she was not compensated.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 6, 38.) 
 
The elements of a
cause of action for violation of Labor Code section 1194 are: (1) plaintiff
performed work for defendant, (2) plaintiff was paid less than the minimum wage
for some or all hours worked, and (3) defendant owes plaintiff an amount of
wages.  (CACI No. 2701.)
 
AOOS argues the
Fourth Cause of Action fails because, as alleged, Lim was paid more than the
minimum wage.  (See Complaint, ¶ 2.)  The argument is not well taken.  The Complaint also alleges that Lim performed
work (the video project) for AOOS which she did not receive any
compensation.  (See Complaint, ¶¶ 6,
38.)  The failure to pay less than the
minimum wage for some hours worked is a violation of Labor Code section
1194.  (See CACI No. 2701.)
 
The demurrer to
the Fourth Cause of Action is OVERRULED.
 
E.    
5th Cause of Action: Failure to Pay
Overtime Wages [California Labor Code §§ 204, 510]
 
Like the Fourth
Cause of Action, the Fifth Cause of Action is based on the allegations that Lim
worked on a film project for AOOS outside of work hours for which she was not
compensated.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 6, 42.)
 
An employee that
works in excess of 8 hours in one day and 40 hours in one week must be
compensated at a rate higher than her regular rate of pay.  (Lab. Code, §
510; IWC Wage Order No. 4-2001 § 3(A).)  A plaintiff must show that he
performed work for the defendant, he worked overtime hours, defendant knew or
should have known that plaintiff worked overtime hours, plaintiff was not paid
the appropriate rate for the overtime hours, and the amount of overtime pay
owed.  (CACI No. 2702.) 
 
AOOS argues the
Fifth Cause of Action fails for two reasons: there is no allegation (1) that AOOS
knew or should have known that Lim worked overtime hours, and (2) which Wage
Order is applicable to Lim’s claim.  The
court disagrees.  As alleged, AOOS tasked
Lim with a video project which required Lim to walk her dog.  Lim did this work outside of work hours.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 6, 42.) Under these facts, AOOS
knew or should have known that Lim completed this work outside of her normal
hours.  Further, there is no requirement
that a plaintiff identify the wage order applicable to the claim.  (See CACI No. 2702.)
 
The demurrer to
the Fifth Cause of Action is OVERRULED.
 
F.    
6th and 7th Causes of Action: Retaliation
in Violation of Labor Code §§ 98.6, 1102
 
The Sixth and
Seventh Causes of Action are premised on the allegations that Lim complained to
Chen that she was never instructed to take 10-minute rest breaks and that she
would begin taking those breaks.  On the
same day Lim made this complaint, Chen and Qu sent her an email terminating her
employment.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 11-14.)
 
Labor Code section
98.6 provides, “[a] person shall not discharge an employee or in any manner
discriminate, retaliate, or take any adverse action against any employee or
applicant for employment because the employee or applicant engaged in any
conduct delineated in this chapter, including the conduct described in
subdivision (k) of Section 96, and Chapter 5 (commencing with
Section 1101) of Part 3 of Division 2, or because the employee or
applicant for employment has filed a bona fide complaint or claim or instituted
or caused to be instituted any proceeding under or relating to their rights
that are under the jurisdiction of the Labor Commissioner, made a written or
oral complaint that they are owed unpaid wages, or because the employee has
initiated any action or notice pursuant to Section 2699, or has testified
or is about to testify in a proceeding pursuant to that section, or because of
the exercise by the employee or applicant for employment on behalf of
themselves or others of any rights afforded them.”
 
Labor Code section
1102.5, subdivision (b) provides, “[a]n employer, or any person acting on
behalf of the employer, shall not retaliate against an employee for disclosing
information, or because the employer believes that the employee disclosed or
may disclose information, to a government or law enforcement agency, to a
person with authority over the employee or another employee who has the
authority to investigate, discover, or correct the violation or noncompliance,
or for providing information to, or testifying before, any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry, if the employee has
reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a violation of state
or federal statute, or a violation of or noncompliance with a local, state, or
federal rule or regulation, regardless of whether disclosing the information is
part of the employee's job duties.”¿ (Lab. Code, § 1102.5, subd. (b).)¿ To
establish a claim for whistleblower retaliation, the following elements must be
met: (1) plaintiff engaged in a protected activity; (2) plaintiff suffered an
adverse employment action; and (3) a causal link exists between the protected
activity and adverse actions.  (Mokler v. Cty. of Orange (2007) 157
Cal.App.4th 121, 138.) 
 
AOOS argues the
Sixth and Seventh Causes of Action fail because (1) the Complaint does not
allege that Lim reported activities which she reasonably believed constituted a
legal violation or that she engaged in any conduct protected under the labor
Code.[1]  The court agrees with AOOS.  The Complaint does not allege Lim reasonably
believed that AOOS committed a legal violation in failing to notify her of the
right to take 10-minute breaks.  
 
Accordingly, the
demurrer to the Sixth and Seventh Causes of Action is SUSTAINED.
 
G.   
8th Cause of Action: Wrongful Termination
in Violation of Public Policy
 
A cause of action for wrongful termination in violation of
public policy requires the following elements: (1) plaintiff was employed by
defendant; (2) defendant discharged plaintiff; (3) violation of public policy
was a substantial motivating reason for plaintiff’s discharge; and (4) the
discharge caused plaintiff’s harm.  (CACI No. 2430.)¿ “As a matter of law,
only an employer can be liable for the tort of wrongful discharge in violation
of public policy.” ¿(Khajavi v. Feather River Anesthesia Med. Grp. (2000)
84 Cal.App.4th 32, 53.) 
 
The same allegations supporting the Sixth and Seventh Causes
of Action also form the basis for the Eighth Cause of Action.  Given that the court has found that the Sixth
and Seventh Causes of Action are insufficiently pleaded, the court likewise
finds the Eighth Cause of Action is deficient.
¿
The demurrer to the Eighth Cause of Action is SUSTAINED.
 
H.   
9th Cause of Action:
Failure to Pay Compensation Due Upon Separation [California Labor Code § 203]
 
The Ninth Cause of Action is premised upon AOOS’s alleged
failure to pay premiums for missed Lim’s meal periods and rest periods, and to
pay Lim her final wages upon separation. 
(Complaint, ¶¶ 66, 67.)
 
Labor Code section 203 provides, “If an employer willfully
fails to pay, without abatement or reduction, in accordance with Sections 201,
201.3, 201.5, 201.6, 201.8, 201.9, 202, and 205.5, any wages of an employee who
is discharged or who quits, the wages of the employee shall continue as a
penalty from the due date thereof at the same rate until paid or until an
action therefor is commenced; but the wages shall not continue for more than 30
days. An employee who secretes or absents themselves to avoid payment to them,
or who refuses to receive the payment when fully tendered to them, including
any penalty then accrued under this section, is not entitled to any benefit
under this section for the time during which the employee so avoids payment.”  
 
AOOS argues this cause of action fails because the Complaint
does not identify the applicable Wage Order. 
The court has considered and rejected this argument.  Given that the court has overruled AOOS’s
demurrer to the various Labor Code violations pertaining to unpaid wages and
meal and rest breaks (First, Second, Third, Fourth, and Fifth Causes of Action),
the court further finds the Ninth Cause of Action is sufficiently plead.  (See Complaint, ¶¶ 65-67.)  
 
The demurrer to the Ninth Cause of Action is OVERRULED.
 
V.          CONCLUSION
            
The demurrer to the First, Second, Third, Fourth, Fifth, and
Ninth Causes of Action is OVERRULED.
 
The demurrer to the Sixth, Seventh, and Eighth Causes of
Action is SUSTAINED.  Leave to amend is
GRANTED.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to serve and file her First Amended
Complaint within 30 days of this order.
 
Defendants to give notice. 

 
Dated:   April 3, 2024                                 




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
            


