 Case Number:  23STCV18372    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     April
3, 2024                                                  TRIAL DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Robert Galindo v. APL Logistics Warehouse Management Services, Inc.,
et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV18372
 





















 
DEMURRER
WITHOUT MOTION TO STRIKE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants
APL Logistics Warehouse Management Services, Inc., et al.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Robert
Galindo
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            This is a Fair
Employment and Housing Act (FEHA) action. 
On August 3, 2023, Plaintiff Robert Galindo (“Plaintiff” or “Galindo”), filed
a Complaint against Defendants, APL Logistics Warehouse Management Services,
Inc. (“APL”), Dan Bourcier (“Bourcier”), and Cleo Chacon (“Chacon”).  On September 26, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative
First Amended Complaint (FAC), alleging causes of action for: 
 
1.     
Lab. Code § 1102.5 Retaliation
2.     
Lab. Code § 6310 Retaliation 
3.     
FEHA Discrimination: Disparate
Treatment 
4.     
FEHA Discrimination: Failure to
Provide A Reasonable Accommodation
5.     
FEHA Discrimination: Failure to
Engage in the Interactive Process 
6.     
FEHA Harassment: Work Environment
Harassment[1]

7.     
FEHA Retaliation 
8.     
FEHA Failure to Prevent
Discrimination, Harassment, or Retaliation 
9.     
Wrongful Discharge in Violation of
Public Policy
10. 
Violation of CFRA Rights
 
            As alleged
in the FAC, Galindo was hired by APL as a General Manager.  During his employment with APL, Galindo
suffered a non-work related injury which required surgeries, doctor’s visits
and work restrictions requiring him to stay off his foot.  In observance of his doctor’s medical advice, Galindo
used a knee scooter at work.  As a result
of his injury and use of the scooter, Chacon, a Regional HR, and Bourcier, Plaintiff’s
supervisor, harassed Plaintiff.  Galindo
additionally alleges that Chacon committed a safety violation by wearing open-toe
shoes on the floor and complained of the same to Senior HR.  A little over a month later, Galindo was
wrongfully terminated.   Throughout his employment with APL, Galindo
received good reviews and had no prior discipline. 
 
            On October 30,
2023, Defendants filed this Demurrer to the First, Third, Fourth, Fifth, Sixth,
and Tenth Causes of Action in the FAC.
 
            Plaintiff
filed an opposition.  Defendants replied.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD FOR DEMURRER
            A demurrer
tests the legal sufficiency of the pleadings and will be sustained only where
the pleading is defective on its face.¿ (City of Atascadero v. Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459.)¿
“We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.¿ We accept the factual
allegations of the complaint as true and also consider matters which may be
judicially noticed.¿ [Citation.]”¿ (Mitchell v. California Department of
Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del E. Webb Corp. v.
Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the facts alleged
in the pleading are deemed to be true, however improbable they may be”].)
Allegations are to be liberally construed.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.)¿ In
construing the allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual
allegations that may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory
allegations.¿ (Financial Corporation of America v. Wilburn (1987) 189
Cal.App.3d 764, 769.)¿¿If the cause of action is based
in statute, the facts supporting each statutory requirement must be
specifically pled. (Fisher v. San Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214
Cal.App.3d 590, 604 (Fisher).)
            A demurrer
may be brought if insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action
asserted.¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).)  “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly
construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because
ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.”¿(Khoury v.
Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)¿¿¿ 
            Where the
complaint contains substantial factual allegations sufficiently apprising
defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for uncertainty
will be overruled or plaintiff will be given leave to amend.¿ (Williams v.
Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)¿ Leave to
amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment.¿ (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿ The burden
is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended
successfully. (Ibid.)¿
III.       DISCUSSION
 
            Meet and Confer
 
            “Before filing a demurrer pursuant
to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person, by
telephone, or by video conference with the party who filed the pleading that is
subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be
reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)¿ Defense counsel has complied with the meet
and confer requirement.  (See Declaration
of Briana Labriola, ¶¶ 2-4.)
 
            Analysis
 
Defendants demur
to the First, Third, Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, and Tenth Causes.  The court addresses each cause of action in
turn. 
 
A.    
1st Cause of Action: Lab. Code § 1102.5
Retaliation
 
The parties agree
that the First Cause of Action is based on the allegations that Plaintiff was
terminated on September 9, 2022 in retaliation for complaining to Senior HR on
August 2, 2022 about Chacon’s safety violation of a company policy which required
her to wear closed-toed shoes when on the floor.   (FAC, ¶¶ 31, 32, 34.) 
 
Labor Code section
1102.5, subdivision (b) provides, “[a]n employer, or any person acting on
behalf of the employer, shall not retaliate against an employee for disclosing
information, or because the employer believes that the employee disclosed or
may disclose information, to a government or law enforcement agency, to a
person with authority over the employee or another employee who has the
authority to investigate, discover, or correct the violation or noncompliance,
or for providing information to, or testifying before, any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry, if the employee has
reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a violation of state
or federal statute, or a violation of or noncompliance with a local, state, or
federal rule or regulation, regardless of whether disclosing the information is
part of the employee's job duties.”  (Lab. Code, § 1102.5, subd. (b).)  Labor Code section 1102.5, subdivision (b), “requires
only that an employee disclose information and that the employee reasonably
believe the information discloses unlawful activity. (Lab. Code, § 1102.5,
subd. (b).)”  (Ross v. Cnty. of
Riverside (2019) 36 Cal.App.5th 580, 593.) 
“To have a reasonably based suspicion of illegal activity, the employee
must be able to point to some legal foundation for his suspicion—some statute,
rule or regulation which may have been violated by the conduct he disclosed.
[Citation.]” (Id. at p. 592 citing Fitzgerald v. El Dorado County
(E.D. Cal. 2015) 94 F.Supp.3d 1155, 1172.)

            Defendants argue the First
Cause of Action is uncertain because the FAC merely alleges a violation of a
company policy; it does not allege sufficient facts to show Galindo had a
reasonable belief Chacon violated a state or federal statute, or violated a
state or federal rule or regulation.  The
court agrees.  The FAC does not point to
any statute, rule, or regulation which may have been violated by Chacon.  By extension, the FAC does not allege that Galindo
had a reasonable belief that a state or federal statute, rule, or regulation
had been violated. 
 
            Citing Ross, Plaintiff
contends a cause of action based on a violation of Labor Code section 1102.5
requires only that he have a reasonable belief that illegal activity occurred.  However, Galindo overlooks the language in Ross
which states: “To have a reasonably based suspicion of illegal activity, the
employee must be able to point to some legal foundation for his suspicion—some
statute, rule or regulation which may have been violated by the conduct he
disclosed. [Citation.]” (Ross, at p. 592.)  Here, the FAC does not identify any state,
rule or regulation.
 
            Defendants’ demurrer to the First
Cause of Action is SUSTAINED.
 
B.    
3rd Cause of Action: FEHA Discrimination:
Disparate Treatment 
 
To establish a
claim for discrimination in violation of FEHA, the plaintiff must generally
prove that (1) he or she was a member of a protected class; (2) that he or she
was qualified for the position he or she sought or was performing competently
in the position he or she held; (3) that he or she suffered an adverse
employment action, such as termination, demotion, or denial of an available
job; and (4)¿some other circumstance suggesting¿discriminatory motive. (See¿Guz
v. Bechtel National, Inc.¿(2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 355; see also CACI No.
2500.)¿¿         
 
Before addressing the
Third Cause of Action, the court makes the following observation.  Plaintiff employs a “chain letter” or
cumulative pleading practice, as well as a shotgun pleading practice.  These practice is disfavored.  (See Kelly v. General Telephone Co.
(1982) 136 Cal.App.3d 278, 285 (stating that “chain letter” pleading should be
avoided as it tends to cause ambiguity and creates redundancy); see also Sollberger
v. Wachovia Securities, LLC (C.D. Cal. June 30, 2010) No. SACV 09–0766,
2010 WL 2674456 [“Shotgun pleadings are pleadings that overwhelm defendants
with an unclear mass of allegations and make it difficult or impossible for
defendants to make informed responses to the plaintiff's allegations. They are
unacceptable....”].)
 
This pleading
style proves problematic with respect to the Third Cause of Action.  The Third Cause of Action addresses discrimination
based on age, disability, and medical/family leave.  (See FAC, ¶ 20.)  The court, however, cannot tell from the
allegations whether Plaintiff’s age, disability or taking of medical/family
leave played any role in his termination.  Rather, as alleged, Plaintiff was terminated
roughly a month after reporting Chacon’s violation of company policy.  A causal link must exists between Plaintiff’s
termination and the violation report.[2]
 
To the extent the
Third Cause of Action is based on age discrimination, the claim is deficient
for the following additional reasons: there are no allegations (1) referring to
Plaintiff’s age, (2) or showing that APL took any action or engaged in any
conduct based on Plaintiff’s age. 
Indeed, there are no factual allegations even of Plaintiff’s age.  
 
Defendants’
demurrer to the Third Cause of Action is SUSTAINED.
 
C.    
4th Cause of Action: Failure to Provide Reasonable Accommodation  
 
The Fourth Cause
of Action is based on (1) Bourcier limiting Plaintiff’s remote work from home
to two occasions (FAC, ¶ 25) and (2) Chacon’s dismissive response when Plaintiff
sought her advice regarding how to handle his days off (FAC, ¶ 26). 
 
“There are three
elements to a failure to accommodate action: ‘(1) the plaintiff has a
disability covered by the FEHA; (2) the plaintiff is a qualified individual
(i.e., he or she can perform the essential functions of the position); and (3)
the employer failed to reasonably accommodate the plaintiff’s
disability.”  (CACI No. 2541; Hernandez v. Rancho Santiago Cmty.
College Dist. (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 1187, 1193-1194.)
 
Defendants argue the
Fourth Cause of Action does not sufficiently allege the third element: APL’s
failure to reasonably accommodate Galindo’s disability.  The court agrees.  With respect to Bourcier’s remote work
limitation, the FAC alleges: “Plaintiff would complain to Bourcier about his
foot injury and requested to work from home as an accommodation. Bourcier only
allowed Plaintiff to work from home on two occasions.”  (FAC, ¶ 25.) 
On its face, this allegation does not describe the accommodation as unreasonable,
nor does it state that Bourcier failed to accommodate Galindo.  Rather, Bourcier appears to have approved Plaintiff’s
request on two occasions.  As to Chacon,
the FAC alleges: “In or about May 2022, Plaintiff needed to take time off for
surgery and doctor visits.  Plaintiff
asked for advice from Chacon on how to handle his days off and she responded,
“You’re a general manager, you’ll figure it out.”  (FAC, ¶ 26.) 
This allegation is uncertain.  Galindo
asked Chacon for advice regarding “how to handle his days off.”  It is not clear what Plaintiff is trying to allege
or how it relates to a need for accommodation. 

 
Defendants’
demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action is SUSTAINED.
 
D.   
5th Cause of Action: Failure to Engage in
Good Faith Interactive Process
 
FEHA requires
employers to engage in a good faith interactive process to determine effective
reasonable accommodations, if any, “in response to a request for reasonable
accommodation by an employee . . . with a known physical or mental disability .
. . .”  (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (n); Raine v. City of Burbank (2006)
135 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1222.)  To establish a claim for failure to engage
in the interactive process, a plaintiff must show: (1) defendant was an
employer; (2) plaintiff was defendant’s employee; (3) plaintiff was disabled;
(4) plaintiff requested reasonable accommodation; (5) plaintiff was willing to
participate in a timely good faith interactive process with plaintiff to
determine whether a reasonable accommodation could be made; (6) defendant
failed to participate in this process; (7) plaintiff was harmed; and (8)
defendant’s failure to engage in a good-faith interactive process was a
substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.  (CACI No. 2546.)¿¿ 
 
The basis for the Fifth
Cause of Action is unclear.  There are no
allegations showing that APL denied Galindo’s request for a reasonable
accommodation.  Rather, as alleged,
Bourcier twice allowed Plaintiff to work from home.  Therefore, APL cannot be held liable when
Plaintiff was offered an accommodation. 
(Wilson v. Cnty. of Orange (2009) 169 Cal.App.4th 1185, 1195.)
 
Disney Defendants’
demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action is SUSTAINED.
 
E.    
6th Cause of Action: Work Environment
Harassment 
 
The Sixth Cause of
Action encompasses harassment based on age, disability, and medical/family
leave.  (See FAC, ¶ 80.)  It is premised on the following factual
allegations: (1) Chacon asking Plaintiff a few times a week why he was using
his knee scooter and expressing skepticism over Plaintiff’s injury (FAC, ¶¶ 22,
23), and (2) Bourcier becoming short tempered with Plaintiff after returning to
work in May 2022 from medical leave and ignoring Plaintiff when being told
about Plaintiff’s doctor’s appointments (FAC, ¶¶ 29, 30).  
 
Government Code section
12940, subdivision (j)(1) provides the basis for FEHA claims for harassment:
“race, religious creed, color, national origin, ancestry, physical disability,
mental disability, medical condition, genetic information, marital status, sex,
gender, gender identity, gender expression, age, sexual orientation, or veteran
or military status . . .”  A hostile work
environment is a recognized form of harassment.  To establish a hostile work environment,
harassment must be so severe or pervasive as to alter the conditions of the
victim’s employment and create an abusive working environment based on the protected characteristic.
(See Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1043.)  Harassment must be of a repeated, routine, or
generalized nature when the harassing conduct is not severe.  (See Lyle v. Warner Bros. Television
Productions (2006) 38 Cal.4th 264, 283.)  Harassment that is occasional, isolated or
sporadic is insufficient.  (See id.)  “Whether
an environment is hostile or abusive can be determined only by looking at all
the circumstances. [Citation.] These may include the frequency of the
discriminatory conduct; its severity; whether it is physically threatening or
humiliating, or a mere offensive utterance; and whether it unreasonably
interferes with an employee’s work performance.  The effect on the employee’s psychological
well being is, of course, relevant to determining whether the plaintiff
actually found the environment abusive.  But
while psychological harm, like any other factor, may be taken into account, no
single factor is required.”  (Jones v.
Dep’t of Corr. & Rehab. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 1367, 1378 [cleaned up].)
 
The Sixth Cause of
Action is deficient.  The FAC does not
describe harassment that is so severe and pervasive as to alter Galindo’s
employment.  Additionally, there are no
allegations to show the alleged conduct interfered with Galindo’s work
performance.[3]
 
Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer to the Sixth Cause of Action is SUSTAINED.
 
F.    
10th Cause of Action: Violation of CFRA
Rights 
 
“A [California Family Rights Act (“CFRA”)] interference
claim consists of the following elements: (1) the employee’s entitlement to
CFRA leave rights; and (2) the employer’s interference with or denial of those
rights.”¿ (Choochagi v. Barracuda Networks, Inc. (2020) 60 Cal.App.5th
444, 454.)
 
  The basis of Plaintiff’s CFRA claim is uncertain.  There are no factual allegations showing Plaintiff
was entitled to CFRA leave.  To the
extent his CFRA claim is predicated upon taking medical leave for the foot
injury, there are no allegations demonstrating that APL denied or interfered
with Galindo’s right to take medical leave. 
Plaintiff does not provide any argument to the contrary.  
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to the Tenth Cause of
Action is SUSTAINED.
 
V.          CONCLUSION
            
The demurrer to the First, Third, Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, and
Tenth Causes of Action is SUSTAINED. 
Leave to amend is GRANTED.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to serve and file his Second Amended
Complaint within 30 days of this order.
 
Defendants to give notice. 

 
Dated:   April 3, 2024                                 




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
            


