 Case Number:  23STCV11594    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2024    Dept:  20 Tentative RulingJudge Kevin C. BrazileDepartment 20Hearing Date:                         Friday, October 11, 2024Case Name:                             Marshall v. CTM Apartment Services, et al.Case No.:                                23SYCV11594Motion:                                  Motion to Strike (not anti-SLAPP)Moving Party:                         Defendant Alissa DeVogelResponding Party:                  UnopposedNotice:                                    OK  Ruling:                                    The Motion to Strike is GRANTED without leave to amend. Defendant Alissa DeVogel to give notice. If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear in person.  BACKGROUND            On May 23, 2023, Plaintiff Terrance Marshall (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants CTM Apartments Services Corporation and 5535 Carlton Way Partners LP (“Defendants”) for Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress.            On December 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), which added Los Angeles Sheriff’s Department, James Investment Partners LP, Tracie Lackey, Andrew Gonzalez, Charlene Escobar, Bradley Boleman, Annelore Lehouck a/k/a Anne Marie Morley a/k/a Anne Marie Morauy a/k/a Ann Lehouck a/k/a Bling Lehouck a/k/a Noam, Cody Allen Morley a/k/a Cody “Bling” Morley, Joshua Brigg, Vazrik Hartooni, Damon Burton, Jose Fernandez, Alissa DeVogel, Ryan Scott Nelson, and DOES 1 through 15, alleging fifteen causes of action.            On June 24, 2024, the Court sustained Defendants Alissa DeVogel, James Investment Partners, 5535 Carlton Way Partners LP, CTM Apartment Services Corporation, Tracie Lackey, Andrew Gonzalez, and Bradley Boleman’s demurrers with leave to amend. The Court also granted Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”). Plaintiff’s motion for sanctions was denied.            On July 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative SAC.            On July 10, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to file a Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) within 10 days. No TAC has been filed.            On August 5, 2024, Defendant DeVogel filed the instant Motion to Strike the SAC. The motion is unopposed.              DISCUSSIONApplicable Law“Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof, but this time limitation shall not apply to motions specified in subdivision (e).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).)  “The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).)  Application to Facts            Defendant Alissa DeVogel (hereinafter “Defendant”) moves for an order striking Paragraph 10, lines 22-26; Paragraph 18, lines 18-19; Lines 13-18 on page 13; and Lines 20-25, page 13 from the SAC. The motion is made is on the grounds that Plaintiff’s SAC allegations fails to amend the deficiencies of the FAC.             Meet and ConferBefore filing a motion to strike, the moving party must meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading to attempt to reach an agreement that would resolve the objections to the pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5.) “Any determination by the court that the meet and confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(4).) A demurrer and motion to strike have similar meet and confer requirements. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.)The declaration of Defendant’s counsel for record, Min Soo Ha, Esq., attests to meet and confer efforts made on July 30, 2024 via telephone call. (Ha Decl., ¶¶3-4, Ex. A.) The parties could not reach an informal resolution. (Id. at ¶4.) Defendant did agree to withdraw the instant motion upon Plaintiff filing a TAC. (Id.)             Merits of MotionUpon review of the FAC and SAC allegations, the Court finds that the allegations set forth in the SAC are essentially the same as those alleged in the FAC. Specifically, the SAC realleges that Defendant DeVogel conspired with other defendants and withheld evidence that was to be used in a previous court matter. Thus, the SAC allegations are not in conformity with the Court’s order sustaining the demurrers with leave to amend and should be stricken as to Defendant DeVogel.DeVogel also cites to Cano v. Glover 143 Cal.App.4th 326, in support of her argument that the SAC should ultimately be dismissed with prejudice as to her. “Section 581, subdivision (f)(2) ‘... gives the defendant the right to obtain a court order dismissing the action with prejudice once the court sustains a demurrer with leave to amend and the plaintiff has not amended within the time given.’ ” (Cano v. Glover (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 326, 330.) Plaintiff has failed to make any showing that he can sufficiently amend the SAC as to Defendant DeVogel. In fact, Plaintiff has not filed the TAC despite prior leave to file such pleading being granted by the Court and agreed upon by Defendant DeVogel.Therefore, the dismissal with prejudice is warranted in this instance.            CONCLUSION            The Motion to Strike is GRANTED without leave to amend. The SAC is dismissed as to Defendant Alissa DeVogel with prejudice.            Defendant Alissa DeVogel to give notice.            If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear in person.