 Case Number:  24STCV08103    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January
9, 2025                                             TRIAL DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Concepcion Morales Ledesma v. Ford Motor Company, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV08103
 





















 
DEMURRER
WITHOUT MOTION TO STRIKE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Galpin Motors
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Concepcion
Morales Ledesma
 
 
I.         
BACKGROUND
 
           
On March 29, 2024, Plaintiff Concepcion Morales Ledesma filed this Song-Beverly
action against Defendants Ford Motor Company (“Ford”) and Galpin Ford
(“Galpin”).  In 2023, Plaintiff purchased a used 2020 Ford Explorer (the
“Vehicle”) with an express warranty.  As alleged, Ford failed to repair
defects in the Vehicle, and further, concealed defects in the Vehicle at the
time of Plaintiff’s purchase.  The Complaint alleges causes of action for
(1) Breach of Express Warranty, (2) Breach of Express Warranty - Civil Code
Section 1793.2(b), (3) Breach of Express Warranty - Civil Code Section (a)(3),
(4) Breach of Implied Warranty, (5) Fraudulent Inducement - Concealment, and
(6) Negligent Repair.  The Sixth Cause of Action is the only cause of
action asserted against Galpin.
 
           
On May 20, 2024, Ford filed this Demurrer to the Complaint. 
 
On July 30, 2024, the court stayed the matter pending the
California Supreme Court’s decision in Rodriguez v. FCA US, LLC¿(2022)
77 Cal.App.5th 209.  The matter was
stayed until January 9, 2025.
 
On October 31, 2024, the California Supreme Court issued its
decision in Rodriguez v. FCA US, LLC (2024) 17 Cal.5th 189 (Rodriguez) holding
that a vehicle purchased with an unexpired manufacturer’s new car warranty is
not a new motor vehicle under Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act unless the warranty
was issued with the sale.
 
In light of the Supreme Court’s decision, the
court will hear from the parties regarding the status of Plaintiff’s
Song-Beverly claims and whether supplemental briefing is necessary.  The court proceeds to consider the demurrer
to Plaintiff’s fraud claim.
           
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint
states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
740, 747.)  When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as true.  (Nolte
v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 1401,
1406.)  “Because a demurrer challenges defects on the face of the
complaint, it can only refer to matters outside the pleading that are subject
to judicial notice.”  (Arce ex rel. Arce v. Kaiser Found. Health Plan,
Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 471, 556.) 
 
III.      DISCUSSION 
 
A.  Analysis 
 
           
Ford argues that Plaintiff’s fraudulent concealment claim is not sufficiently
pleaded and barred by the economic loss rule.[1]
 
 
1.      Plaintiff’s Fraud
Claim is Deficient
 
The Fifth Cause of Action is for Fraudulent Inducement –
Concealment.  Fraud based on concealment requires that “(1) the defendant
must have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have
been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must
have intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud
the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would
not have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact,
and (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the
plaintiff must have sustained damage.”  (Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017)
7 Cal.App.5th 276, 310-311 (Bigler-Engler); CACI No. 1901.)  An
essential element of intentional concealment includes the duty to disclose,
which must be based upon a transaction, or a special relationship, between
plaintiff and defendant.  (Id. at p. 314.) “[T]o establish
fraud through nondisclosure or concealment of facts, it is necessary to show
the defendant ‘was under a legal duty to disclose them.’”  (OCM
Principal Opportunities Fund v. CIBC World Markets Corp. (2007) 157
Cal.App.4th 835, 845 (OCM Principal).) 
 
Ford lodges several attacks to Plaintiff’s fraud
claim.  Because the court finds that Ford’s argument as to the second
element, duty to disclose, is dispositive, the court does not address Ford’s
other challenges to the fraud claim.  Ford argues it had no duty to
disclose because there was no direct transactional relationship between
Plaintiff and Ford. 
 
In Bigler-Engler, the plaintiff, Engler, injured
her knee and had surgery.  After the surgery, the doctor recommended use
of an “ice” machine.  The doctor prescribed the Polar Care 500 ice machine
which was manufactured by defendant Breg, Inc (Breg).  The ice machine
made things worse and caused additional injuries.  Engler sued Breg for
intentional concealment.  The jury returned a verdict in plaintiff’s
favor.  The Court of Appeal reversed finding that Breg did not owe Engler
a duty of care. The Bigler-Engler Court described the
circumstances that give rise to a duty of care as follows:  
 
“There are four circumstances in which nondisclosure or
concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a
fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive
knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant
actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the
defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses some material
facts. [Citation.] Where, as here, a fiduciary relationship does not exist between
the parties, only the latter three circumstances may apply. These three
circumstances, however, presuppose the existence of some other relationship
between the plaintiff and defendant in which a duty to disclose can arise.
[Citation.] A duty to disclose facts arises only when the parties are in a
relationship that gives rise to the duty, such as seller and buyer, employer
and prospective employee, doctor and patient, or parties entering into any kind
of contractual arrangement.  [Citation.]” 
(Bigler-Engler, supra, at p. 311 [cleaned up].) “Such
a transaction must necessarily arise from direct dealings between the plaintiff
and the defendant; it cannot arise between the defendant and the public at
large.”  (Id. at p. 312.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff does not point to any allegation showing or
otherwise suggesting direct dealings between Ford and Plaintiff.  Indeed,
Plaintiff appears to concede as much by arguing that a direct transactional
relationship is not required to give rise to a manufacturer’s duty to disclose
material facts.  For this proposition, Plaintiff cites OCM Principal, supra, 157
Cal.App.4th 835.  Plaintiff misstates OCM Principal. 
There, the Court of Appeal stated, “Where . . . there is no fiduciary
relationship, the duty to disclose generally presupposes a relationship
grounded in “some sort of transaction between the parties.”  (OCM
Principal, 157 Cal.App.4th at p. 859.)  This principle is
consistent with Bigler-Engler.  
 
Plaintiff next relies on Dhital v. Nissan North
America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828 (Dhital) to argue that
strict privity is not required.  The argument is undeveloped. 
Plaintiff merely quotes the following passage from Dhital:
 
At
the pleading stage (and in the absence of a more developed argument by Nissan
on this point), we conclude plaintiffs’ allegations are sufficient. Plaintiffs
alleged that they bought the car from a Nissan dealership, that Nissan backed
the car with an express warranty, and that Nissan’s authorized dealerships are
its agents for purposes of the sale of Nissan vehicles to consumers. In light
of these allegations, we decline to hold plaintiffs’ claim is barred on the
ground there was no relationship requiring Nissan to disclose known defects.
 
(Dhital, supra, at p. 944.)
 Plaintiff then states, without explanation, that her allegations are
sufficient.  Yet, Plaintiff does not cite any allegations in her Complaint
that would align her case with Dhital.  Plaintiff does not
state whether she purchased the Vehicle from an authorized dealership or
whether the sellers of the Vehicle were Ford’s agents for the purpose of
selling Ford vehicles.  
 
            The court
is inclined to sustain Ford’s demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action. 
However, the court will first hear from the parties concerning the impact of
the Supreme Court’s opinion in Rodriguez.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
 
            The court will hear from the parties.
 
           
Clerk of the court to give notice.
 
 
Dated:   January 9, 2025                                            




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




            


