 Case Number:  23STCV06592    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
BLAINE VAN PATTEN, an
  individual and as
Co-Trustee of the Van
  Patten Family Trust dated September 10, 2009;
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
JOHNNIE MAXINE MATTHEWS, an individual, and
  DOES 1 THROUGH 50, INCLUSIVE;
 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV06592
  Hearing Date:  July 03, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiff’s motion for leave to file FIRST
  AMENDED COMPLAINT AND TO CONTINUE TRIAL BY REASON OF SAME
 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On March 24, 2023, Plaintiff Blaine
Van Patten, as an individual and as Co-Trustee of the Van Patten Family Trust, filed
this action against Defendant Johnnie Maxine Matthews. The complaint asserts
causes of action for breach of a lease contract, breach of implied contract, restitution
based on quasi-contract, interference with prospective economic advantage, and common
count. 
On February 5, 2020, Plaintiff (landlord)
entered into a year-long lease agreement with Defendant for a residential
apartment unit ending February 4, 2021. Defendant continued to retain
possession of the unit after February 4, 2021, becoming a month-to-month tenant.
Plaintiff alleges that beginning January 1, 2022, Defendant continuously failed
to pay rent until Plaintiff’s repossession of the unit on September 28, 2023. Additionally,
Plaintiff seeks damages to the unit as a result of Defendant’s refusal to allow Plaintiff’s agents to enter the unit to
conduct urgent repairs.
On June 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion
for leave to file a first amended complaint. Plaintiff seeks leave to amend his
complaint to: (1) add new facts as to events transpiring after the filing of
the original complaint, and (2) correct and increase damages sought as a result
of information gained after the filing of the original complaint. Plaintiff
further asks the Court to continue the August 6, 2024 jury trial as a bench trial on the continued trial date.
On June 3,
2024, Plaintiff filed a proof of service of this motion. However, the proof of
service contains an error. Plaintiff electronically served “ALBAAJET@GMAIL.COM”
instead of “ALABAAJET@GMAIL.COM.” 
Defendant
has not filed an opposition.
LEGAL STANDARD
The court may, in the furtherance of
justice, and on such terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any
pleading. (Code Civ. Proc, §§ 473, subd. (a), 576.) However, a motion for leave
to amend a complaint must be accompanied by a declaration that explains: (1) the
effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when
the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the
reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier. (Cal. Rules of Ct.,
Rule 3.1324(b).)
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff’s motion must be accompanied by
a valid proof of service. (Code Civ. Proc., §1005.) Here, the proof of service
indicates that this motion was served electronically to “ALBAAJET@GMAIL.COM.” However, this email address is different from
the Defendant’s correct email address and, as of this instant motion, is not a
valid email address. Further, Defendant has filed no opposition. Therefore,
this Court finds Plaintiff failed to properly serve Defendant and give the
required notice of this motion.
            Even if service was proper, the
Court would still deny this motion for failure to comply with California Rule
of Court 3.1324(b). The Declaration of Einar W.
Johnson in
support of the motion does not directly state when the new facts alleged were
discovered, nor why the request for amendment was not made earlier as required
by Rule 3.1324(b). While the Court agrees an action generally is a “fluid state of affairs,” Plaintiff failed to inform the Court when the
specific facts alleged in the complaint were discovered. (Declaration of Einar W. Johnson, ISO Mot. ¶4.) Further,
the most recent exhibit in support of the instant motion is dated October 12,
2023. Plaintiff does not explain the approximately eight-month delay in filing his
motion. For
these reasons alone, the Court would be inclined to deny Plaintiff’s motion for
failure to satisfy the requirements of Rule 3.1324(b).
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file
a first amended complaint is DENIED. Plaintiff’s request for a trial
continuance is DENIED. As jury fees were waived, the trial will continue as a
bench trial on August 6, 2024. 
 