 Case Number:  23SMCV03541    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  I Plaintiffs
Gary Handler, Slim Chaabane, Sara Parham, and Sara Treptow (collectively
“plaintiffs”) filed this negligence cause of action against defendants 10532
Ashton Avenue Homeowners’ Association, Walter R. Mariani, Chad W. Horwitz,
Yasaman Miri Gharagozloo, Bendblue, Inc., dba Bayview Property Management, and
Ninder Chima-Jordan.  According to the
operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”), the HOA had to sue the developer of
the condominium project for construction defect issues and received money to
remedy those issues.  (SAC, ¶18.)  The HOA and defendant Bayview, the management
company, hired EMPNLA, Inc. dba EmpireWorks (“Empire”) in June 2022 to address
waterproofing issues.  (Id. at
¶19.)  Plaintiffs contend that despite
the board members’ lack of construction experience, they chose to manage the
construction contract themselves, leading to mistakes like approving additional
expensive change orders for work that should have been included in the original
contract.  (Id. at ¶20.)  Empire purportedly began its work without
obtaining permits and its work was subpar. 
(Id. at ¶¶21-23.) 
Plaintiffs state the defects became obvious when it rained.  (Id. at ¶24.)  Plaintiffs assert that the HOA and Bayview
have not made claims against Empire for this substandard work and continue to
employ it.  (Id. at ¶¶29-30.)  There have allegedly been complaints as to
how the HOA and Bayview are using the HOA’s funds, but the two entities have
not responded to those requests.  (Id.
at ¶¶33-34.)  Currently before the court
is defendants Bendblue, Inc., dba Bayview Property Management and Ninder
Chima-Jordan (collectively “defendants”) demurrer to the SAC. Plaintiffs
oppose.
Defendants’
request for judicial notice is DENIED as to the SAC.  Judicial notice of the SAC is unnecessary
where it is the pleading under review. 
(See Paul v. Patton (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 1088, 1091, fn. 1.)
Defendants
demur to the first through sixth causes of action on the grounds of lack of
capacity and failure to state a cause of action.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (b),
(e).)  Preliminarily, the demurrer on the
ground of lack of capacity is unsubstantiated. 
“ ‘There is a difference between the capacity to sue, which is the right
to come into court, and the standing to sue, which is the right to relief in
court.’  (Friendly Village Community
Assn., Inc. v. Silva & Hill Constr. Co. (1973) 31 Cal.App.3d 220,
224.)  ‘Incapacity is merely a legal
disability, such as infancy or insanity, which deprives a party of the right to
come into court.  The right to relief, on
the other hand, goes to the existence of a cause of action.  It is not a plea in abatement, as is lack of
capacity to sue.’  (Parker v. Bowron
(1953) 40 Cal.2d 344, 351.)”  (Color-Vue,
Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1604, parallel citations
omitted, emphasis by Color-Vue court.) 
Plaintiffs’ failure to plead a derivative claim properly is a question
of standing, not capacity.  Other than
that, there is no articulated basis for this demurrer.  The demurrer on this basis is therefore
OVERRULED.
The
demurrer to the first cause of action is OVERRULED.  Defendants argue that they have no fiduciary
relationship with plaintiffs.  They
assert that the HOA board is responsible for enforcing the CC&Rs and
maintaining the common areas.  “The trial
court correctly set out the three elements of the cause of action at issue:
existence of a fiduciary relationship, breach of fiduciary duty, and
damages.  (Oasis West Realty, LLC v.
Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 820.) 
And as it further explained, the directors of a nonprofit mutual benefit
corporation, like the Association here, are fiduciaries who must act for the
benefit of the corporation and its members. 
(Frances T. v. Village Green Owners Assn. (1986) 42 Cal.3d 490,
513 [‘Directors of nonprofit corporations . . . are fiduciaries who are
required to exercise their powers in accordance with the duties imposed by the
Corporations Code’]; Cohen v. S & S Construction Co. (1983) 151
Cal.App.3d 941, 945 [‘This fiduciary duty extends to individual homeowners, not
just the homeowners association’].)”  (Coley
v. Eskaton (2020) 51 Cal.App.5th 943, 958, parallel citations
omitted.)  Defendants assert that under
Corporations Code section 7210, they are a management company that was
delegated work by the HOA.  This argument
is too factual for a demurrer.  At least
part of the first cause of action is predicated on allegations implying that
defendants exceeded their role as a management company and were actually
improperly running the HOA.  “PLAINTIFFS
are informed and believe that ASHTON AVE HOA, BAYVIEW, NINDER CHIMA-JORDAN,
WALTER R. MARIANI, and CHAD W. HORWITZ have so improperly managed ASHTON AVE
HOA funds that the ASHTON AVE HOA is now basically bankrupt with no prudent
reserves causing ASHTON AVE HOA dues to increase by almost 20%, and is
operating at a deficit in violation of fiduciary duties.”  (SAC, ¶39.) 
The claim is brought derivatively on the HOA’s behalf.  The court cannot say, at this pleading stage,
that defendants have no fiduciary duty to the HOA.  Although there are some allegations that
perhaps this cause of action is brought directly, that is not the better
reading and the court does not so interpret it.
Nor
does the business judgment rule protect defendants. “The precise question
presented, then, is whether we should in this case adopt for California courts
a rule—analogous perhaps to the business judgment rule—of judicial deference to
community association board decisionmaking that would apply, regardless of an
association's corporate status, when owners in common interest developments
seek to litigate ordinary maintenance decisions entrusted to the discretion of
their associations' boards of directors. . .[¶] . . .We hold that, where a duly
constituted community association board, upon reasonable investigation, in good
faith and with regard for the best interests of the community association and
its members, exercises discretion within the scope of its authority under
relevant statutes, covenants and restrictions to select among means for
discharging an obligation to maintain and repair a development's common areas,
courts should defer to the board's authority and presumed expertise.”  (Lamden v. La Jolla Shores Clubdominium
Homeowners Assn. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 249, 260, 265.)  At least at this juncture, the business
judgment rule offers defendants no shelter because the allegations indicate
they allegedly acted in their own self-interest and the acts thus do not come
within Lamden’s scope.  “It is
important to note the narrow scope of the Lamden rule.  It is a rule of deference to the reasoned
decisionmaking of homeowners association boards concerning ordinary
maintenance.  It does not create a
blanket immunity for all the decisions and actions of a homeowners
association.  The Supreme Court's precise
articulation of the rule makes clear that the rule of deference applies only
when a homeowner sues an association over a maintenance decision that meets the
enumerated criteria.”  (Affan v.
Portofino Cove Homeowners Assn. (2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 930, 940 [gathering
cases], emphasis in original.) 
Self-interested governance does not involve ordinary maintenance.
The
second and fifth causes of action for derivative and direct nuisance claims are
SUSTAINED.  None of the alleged acts
qualify as a nuisance.  “ ‘ “Examples of
interferences with the use and enjoyment of land actionable under a private
nuisance theory are legion.  ‘So long as
the interference is substantial and unreasonable, and such as would be
offensive or inconvenient to the normal person, virtually any disturbance of
the enjoyment of the property may amount to a nuisance.’ . . .  An interference need not directly damage the
land or prevent its use to constitute a nuisance; private plaintiffs have
successfully maintained nuisance actions against airports for interferences
caused by noise, smoke and vibrations from flights over their homes . . . and
against a sewage treatment plant for interference caused by noxious odors.”
’  (Monks, supra, 167 Cal.App.4th
at p. 302.)”  (Mendez v. Rancho
Valencia Resort Partners, LLC (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 248, 262, parallel
citations omitted.)  While the complaint
alleges a number of defects, it does not seem to the court that the defects
constitute a nuisance as the term is understood at law.  There may be other remedies, but not
nuisance.  The court notes that the
operative allegations go to the issues of poor construction.  But poor construction does not constitute a
nuisance, even under the CC&R’s broad definition, at least without more.  The fifth cause of action alleges more, but
the court believes it ought to be parsed out to differentiate between allegedly
shoddy construction, alleged retaliation, and allowing a condition to be
maintained on the property in violation of the CC&R’s that causes a direct
harm to the plaintiff’s individual property. 
It would seem to the court that only the latter would be a nuisance.
The
demurrer to the third and sixth negligence claims are OVERRULED.  Defendants argue that plaintiffs do not plead
or demonstrate that they ever accepted the duty alleged and the statutes make
clear that it is the HOA’s responsibility to maintain and repair common
areas.  But the SAC indicates that
defendants are a management company, so the court can infer that the management
duty was wholly or partly delegated to defendants.  Further, even if the ultimate decisions are
by the HOA board, that does not excuse defendants’ liability for their own
negligent acts within the scope of the management delegation.  “The board may delegate the management of the
activities of the corporation to any person or persons, management company, or
committee however composed, provided that the activities and affairs of the
corporation shall be managed and all corporate powers shall be exercised under
the ultimate direction of the board.” 
(Corp. Code, § 7210.)
The
direct negligence claim survives for another reason.  Plaintiffs allege that defendants do not let
them speak at meetings. (SAC, ¶124.) That is weak, but enough.  The right to speak is personal and can be
asserted directly.  If in fact the
demurring defendants are responsible for not allowing plaintiffs to speak when
they have a direct right to do so, that is enough for a pleading.  The demurrer is OVERRULED.
The
fourth cause of action for direct breach of fiduciary duty is SUSTAINED.  The court does not see how defendants owed
the individual homeowners a direct fiduciary duty within the context of their
management-homeowner relationship.  The
court does not see that further leave to amend would be helpful.
Accordingly,
the demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND as to the second and fifth causes
of action, SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to the fourth cause of action,
and OVERRULED as to the first, third, and sixth causes of action.  Plaintiffs have 30 days’ leave to amend as
set forth herein.  Defendants will have
the time allowed by law to answer or otherwise respond, but a further demurrer
can only be to the amended portions. 
Further leave to amend is very unlikely.