 Case Number:  24SMCV00423    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  I The only motion actually on calendar is defendant’s motion
for a stay.  However, plaintiff has
objected to the Ran declaration, without which the motion would fail.  
 
The objection is OVERRULED. 
The court is not aware of any authority that requires that if a
declaration is signed outside the United States it must be done in some unique
way.  Here, while the declaration was
signed in China, it contains a proper jurat. 
If there is a case that says that a declaration signed in China requires
more than a proper jurat, the court invites plaintiff to cite to that
authority.  The court is aware of Code of
Civil Procedure section 2014, which states that an affidavit signed in a
foreign country “may be taken before an Embassador, Minister, Consul, Vice
Consul, or Consular Agent of the United States, or before any Judge of a Court
of record having a seal in such foreign country.”  But the court notes that the statute uses the
word “may,” which is permissive.  The
court does not read the statute as requiring that the affidavit be so
taken.  (The court notes the difference
between an affidavit and a declaration. 
An affidavit requires that the person signing it be sworn—something that
can only be done by someone who has the authority to do so.  A declaration, in contrast, does not require
the declarant to be sworn; it requires only that the declarant be under penalty
of perjury.  The court is not aware of a
statute that says that declarations may not be used in lieu of an affidavit if
signed in a foreign country.)  There is a
similar statute for affidavits taken in states other than California, but no
one has doubted that a jurat similar to the one used here would be sufficient
for a declaration.  Plaintiff also states
that the original declaration must have been in Chinese and then translated
into English.  The court has no proof
that such is the case.  The defense
states that Ran lives in the United States and is fluent in English such that
the original is in English and no translation is or was necessary.  Nor has plaintiff established that under
applicable law the original had to be written in Chinese.  The point is that plaintiff’s attacks require
more than just a say-so.  They require
evidence.  If in fact there is evidence
that Ran does not understand English, that is one thing and the court would
strike the declaration.  Similarly, if
there was evidence that the declaration was written in another language and the
original was signed in that form, a certification from a translator would be
required.  But there is no evidence of
any of that.  Plaintiff also contends
that the Ran declaration proves that private information about him is being
shared with the authorities in China. 
The court does not understand why that is so.  Ran declares that the employment is with the
US company and that as part of Ran’s duties Ran has access to plaintiff’s
personnel files.  There is no reason to
believe that Ran must therefore have shared the personnel files with anyone in
China.  There was a metadata issue, but
there is a declaration from defense counsel explaining that the declaration was
not altered from the time it was executed. 
The court needs more to strike the declaration.  All of that said, though, plaintiff is right
that if there is an electronic signature there must be a sufficient showing
that it was in fact electronically signed by the declarant.  The court will inquire as to that, but
assuming such evidence is extant, the declaration will be received.
 
Turning to the motion to stay, the court is inclined to
GRANT the motion.  According to
defendant, there are two reasons to do this. 
First, plaintiff is subject to an arbitration agreement.  And second, there is already an arbitration
(that plaintiff initiated) pending.  As
to the first argument, the court’s role is very limited.  The court must determine whether there is or
is not a contract to arbitrate.  If so,
then the court may (unless the power was given to the arbitrator) determine if
the claim is arbitrable.  If so, then the
contract must be enforced.  Here,
defendant has established that there is a contract and that this is within the
contract’s scope.  And the court sees
nothing in the contract that makes it unconscionable or improper under
California law.  (Defendant contends that
arbitrability and certain defenses like unconscionability are for the
arbitrator.  That may well be, but
because the court sees no merit in plaintiff’s arguments on those scores, it is
of no moment whether the question is for the court—at least in the first
instance—or the arbitrator.)
 
The court is aware that arbitration is favored under both
California and federal law, and that doubts concerning whether to arbitrate are
to be resolved in favor of arbitration. 
There is just nothing here that would take this dispute out of the
provision.  The court is aware that
plaintiff is raising whistleblower allegations. 
But the court is not aware of an exception to the rules concerning
arbitration for whistleblower claims. 
The court is also aware that plaintiff is alleging that defendants have
made misrepresentations to Congress and other agencies of the US Government and
that those allegations are at the heart of the instant case.  But even so, that does not take the case out
of the contractual purview.  Of course,
those charges can be brought to the attention of the appropriate authorities,
and likely that has already occurred. 
Investigations by a government agency would not be subject to the
arbitration provision.  But his is not a
government investigation; it is a private lawsuit.  Further, the arbitration agreement is quite
broad.  It is not limited to contractual
disputes; its plain language extends to anything concerning plaintiff’s
employment (with one potential exception described below).  Of course, the court’s comments are made only
in the first instance.  The arbitrator
might well conclude to the contrary.
 
Plaintiff asserts that the arbitration agreement was
procured by fraud.  But there are no
allegations, let alone evidence, to support that accusation.  The court notes that generally fraud
regarding an arbitration agreement must pertain to the arbitration agreement
itself, not the contract in general.  So,
for example, if plaintiff were told that the arbitration agreement would never
be enforced, maybe plaintiff could raise this sort of claim.  Or if plaintiff were told that plaintiff
would be given a $10,000 signing bonus if plaintiff signed the arbitration
agreement but defendant had no intention of paying the bonus, that might be
fraud.  But there is no allegation like
that or remotely like that.  Nor is there
anything particularly confusing about the arbitration agreement.  It is written in legal language, but that is
not improper.  Again, of course, the
court makes this determination only in the first instance.  The arbitrator may come to a different
conclusion.  Plaintiff also contends that
he received bad advice from counsel in terms of signing the agreement.  That may or may not be the case, but such is
not a ground to void or avoid the provision.
 
Accordingly, the court must conclude that the matter is
subject to the arbitration agreement, at least in the first instance.  That leaves the question of what to do about
it.  Defendants do not seek an order
compelling arbitration.  But that is
because plaintiff has already initiated an arbitration proceeding under the
clause.  The court agrees that the
already pending arbitration ought to go forward.  Sending this case to a separate arbitration
seems pointless, which is likely why the remedy is not sought.  The stay that is requested seems the better
option.  Accordingly, the motion to stay
is GRANTED.  This matter will be stayed
pending the outcome of the arbitration already started by plaintiff.  If for some reason that arbitration does not
proceed to the merits, either party may seek to lift the stay here so that the
court can determine how best to proceed. 
For now, the court will set a status conference to be sure that things
move forward apace.
 
There remains only one issue: plaintiff’s complaint that
defendant illegally surveilled him after he was let go.  The court is unsure whether that is covered.
It is not post-termination defamation or retaliation, which the court would
think would be like a bad reference or something.  For now, though, the court believes that the
better course is to stay the entire case without deciding whether that issue is
or is not part of the arbitration agreement. 
When the arbitration of the other matters has concluded, the court can
best sort out whether or not that aspect of the case ought to go forward and
further it will not allow what is likely the tail of the case to wag the dog.