 Case Number:  23SMCV02874    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  I The demurrer to the cross complaint is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE
TO AMEND IN PART AND OVERRULED IN PART as to the prescriptive easement.  The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the equitable
easement.  As to negligence, the demurrer
is OVERRULED.
 
This is a case about an easement.  Cross-complainant 7ZERO1 contends that it is
entitled to an easement for a wall and certain other parts of cross-defendant
Pakravan’s property upon which the wall, the landscaping, and a bit of the
overhang of the house encroaches. 
Pakravan demurs to the complaint and 7ZERO1 opposes.
 
Preliminarily, the demurrer on the basis of uncertainty is
OVERRULED.  The court notes that
demurrers on this ground are disfavored and rarely successful.  (Butler v. Sequeira (1950) 100
Cal.App.2d 143.)
 
7ZERO1 seeks a prescriptive easement.  A prescriptive easement is one where the
party seeking the easement has engaged in open, hostile, and notorious use for
over 5 years and the area in dispute can be used by both sides.  An example is often an access road.  7ZERO1 here contends that the wall was built
well over five years ago and has been open and notorious for that time.  Further, the use was “hostile” in that there
was no express or implied permission for it given by Pakravan (or Pakravan’s
predecessor-in-interest), and 7ZERO1 contends that such is the case here.  The problem is that a wall by definition
gives rise to an exclusive use.  The land
on 7ZERO1’s side of the wall, one would think, can be used only by it.  It is no answer to say that Pakravan may
scale the wall and use the land. 
Exclusive use is not permitted in the prescriptive easement context
except in rare cases not applicable here (often involving public uses).  What 7ZERO1 really seeks is exclusive use of
the land, and that is not an easement, it is adverse possession.  The problem with adverse possession is that
it requires that the party so asserting pay taxes on the property, and there is
no allegation that anything like that was done here.  Because it would appear that the use is
exclusive, the demurrer is SUSTAINED. 
That said, one could imagine a very small wall that is really no
impediment to access.  If such is the
case, then it could be that the use is not exclusive.  The court will therefore allow 7ZERO1 30
DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND.  To be clear, the
court is thinking like a wall that extends only a few inches above ground on
the upslope side, which the court doubts is the case here.
 
The second cause of action is for an equitable
easement.  Equitable easements are odd
creatures.  They do allow for exclusive
use, but they are hard to prove.  That is
in part because (unlike a prescriptive easement) the initial use must be
innocent.  That is, it must have been
done by a party who believed that there was permission to do so or at least
that it was lawful.  Of course, that is
the opposite of a prescriptive easement, which requires a hostile use.  But 7ZERO1 can plead in the alternative, especially
when the wall was built by a prior owner. 
If there is an equitable easement, then the exclusive use easement will
be created, but 7ZERO1 will have to pay defendant for that use.  And there is more.  7ZERO1 will have to show that the court
should exercise its equitable powers, meaning that the harm to it must outweigh
the harm to Pakravan.  Here, though,
7ZERO1 has pled enough to defeat the demurrer, and therefore the demurrer is
OVERRULED.  The court is aware that this
looks a lot like adverse possession.  But
it is not, and the law recognizes the doctrine.
 
Finally, as to negligence, the issue is whether Pakravan
adequately took care of the property such that there would be no slides that
injured plaintiff’s property.  7ZERO1
contends that the answer is “no,” and that is enough here.  A property owner has a duty to a neighbor to
care for the property such that the defendant’s property does not cause harm to
the plaintiff’s property.  Proper drainage,
for example, can be required.  At the
pleading stage, enough was alleged. 
Accordingly, the demurrer is OVERRULED as to the third cause of
action.  The court understands that
Pakravan is asserting that 7ZERO1 is really arguing that the retaining wall is
not adequate—a problem that would seem to be one that 7ZERO1 must fix if it
prevails in this suit.  But that is not
how the court reads the cross-complaint, which must, after all, be read in the
light most favorable to the opposing party.
 
7ZERO1 has 30 days’ leave to amend as set forth above.  Pakravan has the time allowed by law to
answer or otherwise respond, but any demurrer can only be to the portions that
have been amended.