 Case Number:  21STCV35768    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2023    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October 23, 2023                   TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Monique Sands, individually and as
successor in interest to Marilyn Sands v. La Brea Rehabilitation Center, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV35768            
 
DEMURRER
TO COMPLAINT AND MOTION TO STRIKE

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants La Brea Rehabilitation Center; The
Rehabilitation Center on La Brea; La Brea Rehabilitation Center, LLC; Hugo
Pena, and Karen Crucena
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Monique
Sands, individually and as successor-in-interest to Marilyn Sands.
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a wrongful death and elder abuse action that was filed on
September 28, 2021. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants failed to provide
adequate care for her elderly mother, causing the decedent’s death. 
 
Defendants La Brea Rehabilitation
Center, The Rehabilitation Center on La Brea, La Brea Rehabilitation Center,
LLC, Hugo Pena, and Karen Crucena demur to the Complaint in its entirety and
move to strike portions of the Complaint pertaining to statutory and punitive
damages. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendants’ Demurrer to the
Complaint is SUSTAINED in its entirety with leave to amend. 
 
            Plaintiff
shall have 30 days leave to amend the Complaint. 
 
            Defendants’
alternative Motion to Strike is MOOT. 
 
//
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Demurrer to Complaint
 
Defendants La Brea Rehabilitation Center, The Rehabilitation
Center on La Brea, La Brea Rehabilitation Center, LLC, Hugo Pena, and Karen
Crucena demur to the Complaint in its entirety. 
 
Legal Standard
 
A demurrer tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) The
ultimate facts alleged in the complaint must be deemed true, as well as all
facts that may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged. (Marshall
v. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403; see also Shields
v. County of San Diego (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 103, 133 [stating, “[o]n
demurrer, pleadings are read liberally and allegations contained therein are
assumed to be true”].) “This rule of liberal construction means that the
reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.” (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th
1228, 1238.) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who has filed the pleading subject to the demurrer and file a declaration
detailing their meet and confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a).)
However, an insufficient meet and confer process is not grounds
to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41(a)(4).)
 
The Declaration of Rita Kanno states
that she sent Plaintiffs’ counsel an email on March 24, 2023 to attempt to meet
and confer regarding this issue, before engaging in subsequent nonspecific
conversations with Plaintiff’s counsel through May 10, 2023, without
successfully resolving this dispute. (Declaration of Rita R. Kanno ISO Mot. ¶¶
2-3.) The Court therefore finds that Defendants satisfied their statutory meet
and confer obligations. 
 
//
 
Failure to Demonstrate Service of the Complaint
 
            Defendants
first contend that Plaintiff failed to serve the Complaint in this action
within the time required by California Rule of Court 3.110(b). Defendants cite
no authority standing for the proposition that a failure to comply with the
Rules of Court warrants dismissal of the Complaint, and the Rules of Court do
not themselves contemplate such a remedy. (See Cal. Rules of Court rule
3.110(f) [Court may issue order to show cause why sanctions should not be
imposed for failure to timely serve pursuant to rule].) Defendants have not
demonstrated that the Complaint is defective on this basis. 
 
First Cause of Action: Wrongful Death
 
            Defendants
demur to the first cause of action for wrongful death in violation of the Elder
Abuse Act under Welfare and Institutions Code section 15600 et seq for
failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
 
            To state a
claim under the Elder Abuse Act, the plaintiff must allege that the defendant
is liable for physical abuse, neglect, or abandonment and guilty of
recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice while doing so. (Welf & Inst.
Code § 15657(a).) “Abuse” includes “[p] hysical abuse, neglect, financial
abuse, abandonment, isolation, abduction, or other treatment with resulting
physical harm or pain or mental suffering” or “[t]he deprivation by a care
custodian of goods or services that are necessary to avoid physical harm or
mental suffering.” (Welf. & Inst Code § 15610.57(a)(1).) “Neglect” includes
but is not limited to “(1) [f]ailure to assist in personal hygiene, or in the
provision of food, clothing, or shelter,” “(2) [f]ailure to provide medical
care for physical and mental health needs,” “(3) [f]ailure to protect from
health and safety hazards,” and “(4) [f]ailure to prevent malnutrition or
dehydration.” (Welf. & Inst. Code § 15610(b).) Neglect, as a form of abuse,
is “the failure of those responsible for attending to the basic needs and
comforts of elderly or dependent adults, regardless of the professional
standing, to carry out their custodial obligations.” (Carter v. Prime
Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 404.) This
definition “speaks not of the undertaking of medical services, but the failure
to provide medical care.” (Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 783.) As a statutory cause of action, a claim under the
Elder Abuse Act must be pleaded with particularity. (Id. at 790; see
also Lopez v. Southern Cal. Rapid Trans. Dist. (1985) 40 Cal.3d 780,
795.) 
 
            Defendants
argue that Plaintiff fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action because Plaintiff provided little to no specific factual allegations of
any conduct by Defendants evidencing a failure to provide for the basic needs,
comforts, and medical care of the decedent. The allegations in the Complaint state
generally that Defendants withheld treatment, protection from health and safety
hazards and infections, failed to report changes of conditions, understaffed
the facility, and did not adequately hire, retain, train and supervise staff to
meet the decedent’s care needs. (Complaint ¶ 50.) The Complaint also alleges
that Defendants disregarded the high probability of injury or death of the
decedent, and therefore acted with recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice.
(Complaint ¶ 53.) Defendants argue that these allegations are bare conclusions
devoid of specific facts, offering comparisons to other cases involving elder
abuse claims against hospitals, rather than skilled nursing facilities as
alleged here. (See, e.g., Carter, supra, 19 Cal.App.4th at 407-410.) 
 
            Although
Plaintiff endeavors to distinguish the cases cited in support of Defendants’
position as factually inapposite, Plaintiff’s opposition neglects to
substantively address the thrust of their objection to the Complaint: that
Plaintiff does not allege any specific facts to establish the elements of an
elder abuse claim. Plaintiff offers a rote recitation of the allegations in the
Complaint, but her reliance on those allegations is flawed in that the
allegations, as Defendants argue, consist largely of bare legal conclusions
that Defendants did not provide for the basic needs and comfort of decedent.
(See, e.g., Complaint ¶ 50(a)-(h).) Plaintiff alleged no facts that provide any
insight into the decedent’s specific needs, the measures that were not
provided, the conditions at the subject facility, or even the immediate cause
of the decedent’s death. The only facts that are alleged are the decedent’s age
(Complaint ¶ 32), that she was admitted to the facility for wound care, could
not care for herself, and required dialysis (¶¶ 33-35), and that she died on
April 10, 2020. (¶ 37.) In sum, it is not apparent from the Complaint what
conduct from Defendants or events at the facility expose these Defendants to
liability for the decedent’s death. The Court therefore finds that Plaintiff
has not satisfied the heightened pleading requirements for a statutory cause of
action.
 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer to the first cause of action is SUSTAINED. 
 
Second Cause of Action: Violation of Elder Abuse Act
(Survivor Action)
 
            Defendants
demur to the second cause of action for violation of the Elder Abuse Act for
failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. The parties
agree that this cause of action survives or fails with the first cause of
action.
 
            Accordingly,
for the foregoing reasons, Defendants’ demurrer to the second cause of action
is SUSTAINED. 
 
Third Cause of Action: Health & Safety Code Section
1430(b)
 
            Defendants
demur to the third cause of action for violation of Health and Safety Code
section 1430(b) for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action. The parties agree that this cause of action survives or fails with the
first cause of action.
 
            Accordingly,
for the foregoing reasons, Defendants’ demurrer to the third cause of action is
SUSTAINED. 
 
//
 
//
 
Fourth Cause of Action: Negligence
 
Defendants demur to the fourth
cause of action for negligence for failure to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. The parties agree that this cause of action
survives or fails with the first cause of action.
 
            Accordingly,
for the foregoing reasons, Defendants’ demurrer to the fourth cause of action
is SUSTAINED. 
 
Statutory Attorney’s Fees and Punitive Damages
 
            Defendants
demur to Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages and attorney’s fees and costs
pursuant to Civil Code section 3294 and Welfare and Institutions Code section
15657, respectively. As each of Plaintiff’s causes of action have failed,
Defendants’ demurrer to the prayer for attorney’s fees and punitive damages is
SUSTAINED.
 
Leave to Amend
 
            When a
demurrer is sustained, the Court determines whether there is a reasonable
possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment. (Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318).  When a plaintiff “has pleaded the
general set of facts upon which his cause of action is based,” the court should
give the plaintiff an opportunity to amend his complaint, since plaintiff
should not “be deprived of his right to maintain his action on the ground that
his pleadings were defective for lack of particulars.” (Reed v. Norman
(1957) 152 Cal.App.2d 892, 900.) Accordingly, California law imposes the
burden on the plaintiffs to demonstrate the manner in which they can amend
their pleadings to state their claims against a defendant.  (Goodman
v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) “Denial of leave to amend
constitutes an abuse of discretion unless the complaint shows on its face it is
incapable of amendment.  [Citation.]  Liberality in permitting
amendment is the rule, if a fair opportunity to correct any defect has not been
given." (Angie M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217,
1227.)
 
            Here,
Plaintiff has not shown how the Complaint might be amended to cure the defects
raised in this demurrer. However, as the defects arise from a lack of
sufficient detail in the Complaint, the method by which Plaintiff might correct
this failure is apparent. The Court will therefore exercise its discretion to
permit leave to amend. 
 
Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint
 
            Defendants
move in the alternative to strike the allegations pertaining to Plaintiff’s
request for punitive damages and statutory attorney’s fees. As the Court has
sustained the demurrer to the Complaint in its entirety, Defendants’ motion to
strike is MOOT. 
 
//
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Demurrer to the Complaint is SUSTAINED in its entirety with
leave to amend. 
 
            Plaintiff
shall have 30 days leave to amend the Complaint. 
 
            Defendants’
alternative Motion to Strike is MOOT. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  October 23,
2023                                ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 