  Case Number:  21STCV35300    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2023    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October 23, 2023                   TRIAL
DATE: January 2, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Timothy Joseph Toups (deceased) et al.
v. 3M Company, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV35300            
 
MOTION
FOR ORDER REQUIRING PLAINTIFFS TO FILE UNDERTAKING

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants Amrep, Inc., and Zep, Inc. 
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs Timothy
Joseph Toups (deceased); Breanna Patton, and Kylie Young
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
09/24/21: Complaint filed.
·        
10/20/21: The Quikrete Companies, LLC
substituted in as Doe 1
·        
11/29/21: Dismissal entered as to Quikrete
International, Inc. 
·        
01/17/23: First Amended Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a toxic tort and survival action. Plaintiffs allege that Timothy
Joseph Toups, now deceased, was exposed to various toxic chemicals while
working in construction, which ultimately caused his fatal illness. 
 
Defendants Amrep, Inc. and Zep,
Inc. move to require Plaintiffs to post an undertaking in the amount of $93,140.16.
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Defendants’
Motion to Require an Undertaking is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendants Amrep, Inc. and Zep,
Inc. move to require Plaintiffs to post an undertaking in the amount of
$93,140.16.
 
//
Legal Standard
 
Under Code of Civil
Procedure section 1030(a), a defendant sued by an out-of-state plaintiff “may
at any time apply to the court by noticed motion for an order requiring the
plaintiff to file an undertaking to secure an award of costs and attorney’s
fees which may be awarded in the action or special proceeding.”   
 
To prevail on a motion for
undertaking, the defendant must show that: (1) the plaintiff resides out of
state; and (2) there is a “reasonable possibility” that the defendant will
obtain a judgment in the matter. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1030(b).) A defendant need
not show that there is no possibility of the plaintiff prevailing—only that it
is reasonably possible that defendant will prevail. (Baltayan v. Estate of Getemyan (2001) 90
Cal.App.4th 1427, 1432.)  Additionally, the motion must be accompanied by
a supporting affidavit or declaration that sets forth the nature and amount of
the costs the defendant has incurred and expects to incur. (Code Civ. Proc. §
1030(b).) Finally, “the determinations of the court under this section have no
effect on the determination of any issues on the merits of the action . . . and
may not be given in evidence nor referred to in the trial of the action or
proceeding.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1030(f).) 
 
Out-of-State Plaintiffs
 
            It is undisputed
that the Plaintiffs are not residents of the State of California. The decedent,
Timothy Toups, and the current Plaintiffs, Kylie Young and BreeAnna Toups, all
stated in deposition testimony that they are residents of Idaho, not
California. (Declaration of Jennifer Bonneville ISO Mot. Exh. B pp. 108:6-9,
117:17-19; Exh. C p.14:10-11; Exh. D pp. 10:24-11:3.) Defendants have therefore
met their burden to demonstrate that Plaintiffs reside out of state.
 
Reasonable Possibility of Prevailing
 
            Defendants make no
effort in their five-page memorandum of points and authorities to demonstrate a
reasonable possibility of prevailing on the causes of action asserted against
them. Rather than argue the issues on this motion as they are required to do,
Defendants instead vaguely gesture toward a motion for summary judgment filed
on September 5, 2023, which has not been fully briefed nor heard and for which
judicial notice was not requested. Defendants, as moving parties, bear the
burden of showing that it is reasonably possible that they will prevail in this
case. Defendants have failed to do so. 
 
Plaintiffs’ Indigency
 
            Even if Defendants
had carried their burden to demonstrate a reasonable possibility of prevailing
in this case, the Court would not order Plaintiffs to post a bond because they
have demonstrated that they are indigent. 
 
The Court has the power to relieve
indigent plaintiffs from furnishing security for costs. (Code Civ. Proc. §
995.240; see, e.g., Conover v. Hall (1974) 11 Cal.3d 842, 851-52.) Where
a person is indigent and unable to obtain sufficient securities to post an
undertaking, the court may not limit his or her access to the courts by
requiring an unreasonable bond.  (Garcia v. Santana (2009) 174
Cal.App.4th 464, 472 [“The fact that a litigant had some limited resources was
insufficient to deny such a person the right to proceed, an entitlement
grounded ‘in a common law right of access to the courts and constitutional
principles of due process’”].)   
 
Where an out-of-state plaintiff
establishes that he or she is indigent, the trial court may exercise its
discretion to waive the requirement of posting an undertaking.  (Alshafie,
supra, 171 Cal.App.4th at p. 429 [“[t]he court may, in its
discretion, waive a provision for a bond in an action or proceeding and make
such orders as may be appropriate as if the bond were given, if the court
determines that the principal is unable to give the bond because the principal
is indigent and is unable to obtain sufficient sureties, whether personal or
admitted surety insurers”]; Bank of America Nat. Trust & Sav. Ass’n v.
Superior Court of Fresno County (1967) 255 Cal.App.2d 575,
578.)   
 
The plaintiff may make a prima
facie showing of indigency by showing he has unsuccessfully attempted to obtain
the required undertaking or that he is unable to furnish it.  (Baltayan,
supra, 90 Cal.App.4th at p. 1434.)  For example, the trial
court may exercise its discretion in waiving the security or reducing the
amount of the undertaking based on a plaintiff’s declaration and tax
returns.  (Ibid.)  Essentially, plaintiff must provide the
court with the same information that a plaintiff seeking to proceed in forma
pauperis must provide in seeking relief from the obligation to post a
bond.  (Alshafie, supra, 171 Cal.App.4th at p. 433.) 
 
Here, Plaintiffs have provided verified
declarations under penalty of perjury stating that they are each unable to
afford a bond of the requested amount and are not able to obtain the
undertaking as a loan. Plaintiff Toups states that she earns approximately
$1,500 per month from her sole source of income and has approximately $400 in
her checking account.  (Declaration of
BreeAnna Toups ISO Opp. ¶ 3) She also states that she has approximately $1,375
per month in expenses, accounting for most of her monthly salary. (Id. ¶
4.) Plaintiff Young states that she and her husband have a combined income of
approximately $4,300 per month, most of which is consumed by their monthly
living and child-care expenses and had, as of October 7, 2023, $2,500 in their
checking account, with bills due that would reduce the amount to $300.
(Declaration of Kylie Young ISO Opp. ¶ 3-5.) Plaintiffs state they can barely
afford essential living expenses. (Toups Decl. ¶ 6; Young Decl. ¶ 6.) Moreover,
both Plaintiffs state that their bank refused to loan them the funds for the
undertaking. (Toups Decl. ¶ 6; Young Decl. ¶ 7.) Defendants, in reply, claim
that Plaintiffs’ statements regarding their bank’s refusal to furnish the
undertaking are inadmissible hearsay, and assert that Plaintiffs’ evidence of
indigency is “weak.” Neither contention is persuasive. Plaintiffs do not offer
evidence of statements made by their bank, but evidence of the bank’s conduct,
i.e. its refusal to furnish the undertaking. Nor does the Court find that
Plaintiffs’ sworn testimony regarding their finances to be “weak” evidence, and
Defendants cite no authority in support of that proposition. 
 
The Court
does not find that Defendants have demonstrated a reasonable possibility of
success on the merits of this case, such that Plaintiffs should be required to
furnish an undertaking. Even if Defendants had done so, Plaintiffs have
demonstrated to the Court’s satisfaction that they are indigent, and the Court
would exercise its discretion to relieve them from their obligation to furnish
an undertaking. 
 
CONCLUSION: 
 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion to Require an Undertaking is DENIED. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: October 23, 2023                                 ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 