 Case Number:  24STCV04758    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County of
  Los Angeles




 
Lucia Lovos, an individual and Jose
  Ernesto Hernandez Huezo, an individual,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24STCV04758




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




Pil Soo Lee, an individual and DOES 1
  through 50, inclusive,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: January 14, 2025
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
Motion to Set Aside Entry of Default
Moving Party: Defendant Pil Soo Lee
Responding Party: Plaintiffs Lucia Lovos and Jose
Ernesto Hernandez Huezo
 
T/R:     THE MOTION TO SET
ASIDE ENTRY OF DEFAULT IS DENIED.
 
DEFENDANT
TO NOTICE. 
 
            The
Court considers the moving papers and opposition. 
 
If the
parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email the courtroom at¿SMCdept54@lacourt.org¿with notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party)
before 8:30 am on the day of the hearing. 
BACKGROUND
 
On
February 27, 2024, Plaintiffs Lucia Lovos and Jose Ernesto Hernandez Huezo filed
a Complaint against Defendant Pil Soo Lee for: (1) Breach of Warranty of
Habitability; (2) Breach of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment; (3) Negligence; and
(4) Breach of Contract. 
 
On August
27, 2024, this Court entered default against Defendant Lee. 
Defendant
Lee moves for an order setting aside the entry of default entered against him. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
“When
service of a summons has not resulted in actual notice to a party in time to
defend the action and a default or default judgment has been entered against
him or her in the action, he or she may serve and file a notice of motion to
set aside the default or default judgment and for leave to defend the action.
The notice of motion shall be served and filed within a reasonable time, but in
no event exceeding the earlier of: (i)¿two years after entry of a default
judgment against him or her; or (ii)¿180 days after service on him or her of a
written notice that the default or default judgment has been entered.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 473.5, subd. (a).)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
“A notice
of motion to set aside a default or default judgment and for leave to defend
the action shall designate as the time for making the motion a date prescribed
by subdivision (b) of Section 1005, and it shall be accompanied by an affidavit
showing under oath that the party’s lack of actual notice in time to defend the
action was not caused by his or her avoidance of service or inexcusable
neglect. The party shall serve and file with the notice a copy of the answer,
motion, or other pleading proposed to be filed in the action.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 473.5, subd. (b).)¿ 
¿¿ 
“Upon a
finding by the court that the motion was made within the period permitted by
subdivision (a) and that his or her lack of actual notice in time to defend the
action was not caused by his or her avoidance of service or inexcusable
neglect, it may set aside the default or default judgment on whatever terms as
may be just and allow the party to defend the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
473.5, subd. (c).)¿ 
 
A.    Motion to Set Aside Entry of Default
 
Defendant
Lee asserts he was never served the summons and complaint. (Lee Decl., ¶2.) He
argues that the description of the party served by personal service on July 25,
2024 does not match his physical description. (Id. at ¶¶3-5, Ex. 1.) Defendant
Lee also contends that he and Plaintiffs resided at the same residence and
shared the same mailbox, and Plaintiffs could check the mail before he would see
anything. (Id. at ¶10.)
 
In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue the declaration submitted by Defendant Lee lacks
sufficient facts showing lack of actual notice. Plaintiffs also argue that
Defendant Lee does not explain how he discovered this lawsuit on December 2,
2024. And Plaintiffs contend Defendant Lee’s motion fails to meet the
requirements of Code of Civil Procedure § 473.5, subdivision (b) because a copy
of the Answer or other pleading was not served and filed with it. 
 
“[T]he reference in Code of Civil
Procedure section 473.5 to ‘actual notice’ means genuine knowledge of the party
litigant and does not contemplate notice imputed to a principal from an
attorney's actual notice.” (Rosenthal v. Garner (1983) 142 Cal.App.3d
891, 895.) Defendant Lee has provided his driver’s license, which indicates he
is an 87-year old, Asian Male, Height: 5’4, and Weight: 110Ibs. (Lee Decl.,
¶¶5-6, Ex. 2.) The proof of service indicates that a 50-year old, Asian Male,
Height: 5’11, and Weight: 165Ibs was served at 236 South Rampart Boulevard, Los
Angeles, CA. Defendant Lee does not dispute he resides at the property where
service was effectuated. The driver’s license provided by Defendant Lee
indicates the Subject Property is his residence. (Lee Decl., Ex. 2). 
 
Defendant Lee seems to suggest that
Plaintiffs concealed or mishandled his mail including the service of summons
and complaint, and notice of entry of default. But there are insufficient facts
to support this contention. He has failed to show a lack of actual notice in time
to defend this lawsuit. In addition, Defendant Lee failed to file and serve a
copy of his proposed Answer or other responsive pleading with the present
motion as required under statute. 
 
Defendant’s Motion to Set Aside Entry
of Default is DENIED. 


 