  Case Number:  22AHCV00856    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



LUZ MERCADO, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
AUTOMATIC
   DATA PROCESSING, INC., et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  22AHCV00856
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER DISCOVERY RESPONSES TO SPECIAL
   INTERROGATORIES, SET THREE 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
October
   1, 2024




 


)


 



 
          Plaintiff Luz
Mercado (“Plaintiff”) moves for an order compelling defendant ADP Technology
Servies, Inc. (“Defendant”, erroneously sued as “Automatic Data Processing,
Inc.”) to serve further responses to Special Interrogatories, Set Three and
Requests for Production of Documents, Set Two. Plaintiff also seeks sanctions
in the amount of $9,426.02 against Defendant and its counsel of record. 
          Procedural
Background
These motions were filed on May 23,
2024, after the Court denied Defendant’s motion for a protective order and Defendant
failed to serve supplemental responses as it indicated it would do at an
informal discovery conference. 
On September 12, 2024, the Court heard
Plaintiff’s motion regarding further responses to her special interrogatories
and continued the hearing to October 1, 2024, so that the motion could be heard
alongside her motion to compel further responses to her document requests. A
continuance was necessary because Defendant claimed that it served supplemental
responses which caused the motion to become moot, but Defendant did not file
those responses with the Court. These supplemental responses were later filed
with the Supplemental Declaration of Sofya Perelshteyn on September 12, 2024. 
Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Special Interrogatories (Set Three), Nos. 1 through 49. 
As an initial matter, the Court rejects
Defendant’s argument that Plaintiff’s motion should be denied as moot because
supplemental responses were served on June 14 and July 25, 2024. Defendant
cites to no authority for the proposition that Plaintiff’s motion is mooted
merely by serving supplemental responses and case law suggests that such
“piecemeal supplementation” would be used as a delay tactic by a responding
party. (County of San Benito v. Superior Court (2023) 96 Cal.App.5th 243.)
As for the sufficiency of Defendant’s supplemental
responses, Defendant also argues they are adequate because they refer Plaintiff
to specific Bates-labeled documents which contain the necessary information, as
permitted by Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.230.
On reply, Plaintiff takes issue with Defendant’s
supplemental responses to SROG Nos. 81, 82, and 83. These three special
interrogatories ask Defendant to identify certain employees who have been
disciplined as a result of “complaints” alleging discrimination, harassment,
and retaliation from 2018 until the present. In response, Defendant reiterates
its objections and states that the interrogatories are “not applicable.
Investigation and discovery is continuing and Defendant reserves the right to
supplement this response.” (Supp. Perelshteyn Decl., Ex. A, pp. 42-44.) The
Court sustains Defendant’s objections on the grounds that they are overbroad
because Plaintiff’s own claims are limited to gender/sex and disability
discrimination. 
In light of Defendant’s supplemental
responses, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to
Special Interrogatories (Set Three). 
Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Requests for Production of Documents (Set Three), Nos. 62 through 88
Defendant served supplemental responses
after Plaintiff filed this motion and on reply, Plaintiff argues that these
responses are insufficient for two reasons. First, Plaintiff argues that Defendant
omitted a supplemental response to RFP No. 76, which demands “[a]ll DOCUMENTS
authored by or sent to Robert Seres RELATING TO any investigation of complaints
submitted to ADP’s Associate Relations by ADP employees or independent
contractors, REGARDING ADP’s office in Pasadena, California, during the TERM.”
Plaintiff does not explain (either in her memorandum of points and authorities
or her separate statement) who Robert Seres is or why documents authored by or
sent to him are relevant to her claims or reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).) Therefore,
the motion to compel a further response to RFP No. 76 is DENIED. 
Second, Plaintiff complains that Defendant’s
agreement to comply with the remaining document requests are conditioned on
producing only those documents which are related to “complaints raised by
Plaintiff during her employment.” Again, Plaintiff does not identify “specific
facts” showing “good cause” for documents which are not related to Plaintiff’s
own complaints at issue in this litigation. Accordingly, the Court DENIES
Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to Nos. 62 through 75 and 77
through 88. 
Sanctions
The Court declines to impose sanctions
in connection with this motion because each party made and opposed the motions
with substantial justification. Plaintiff and Defendant’s requests for
sanctions are DENIED. 
 
Dated
this 1st
day of October, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 