  Case Number:  22STCV33046    Hearing Date:   July 1, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


July
  1, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV33046




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants
  Huge USA, Inc. and Jin Ser Park




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Nam Suk Park


 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Nam Suk
Park (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendants Huge USA, Inc. (“Huge USA”) and Jin Ser Park
(“Park”) for wage and hour violations.  Park
is the owner of Huge USA, which is a garment importing company.  
Plaintiff alleges
Defendants hired Plaintiff to perform job duties, including “shipping,
production, outsourcing and ordering fabrics, reporting manufacturing
schedules, and monitoring logistics schedules” (Complaint, ¶ 10); Defendants paid
Plaintiff a flat salary of $5,000 per month, and did not pay Plaintiff overtime
compensation or provide Plaintiff with meal and rest breaks; (id., ¶¶ 11-19)
; and Park struck Plaintiff while Plaintiff worked for Defendants (id., ¶
20).  
Defendants move
for summary judgment on Plaintiff’s operative complaint, or, in the
alternative, summary adjudication of the causes of action therein.  However, Defendants have not “repeated,
verbatim, in the separate statement of undisputed material facts” each issue on
which Defendants seek summary adjudication and identified “each supporting
material fact claimed to be without dispute with respect to” each issue.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1350, subds. (b),
(d).) Accordingly, the Court denies the motion for summary adjudication as
procedurally improper. “There is little flexibility in the procedural
imperatives of [Code of Civil Procedure section 437c], and the issues raised by
a motion for summary judgment (or summary adjudication) are pure questions of
law.  As a result, section 437c is
unforgiving; a failure to comply with any one of its myriad requirements is
likely to be fatal to the offending party.”  (Brantley v. Pisaro (1996) 42
Cal.App.4th 1591, 1607.)  Therefore, the court
considers the motion as a motion for summary judgment only.  
LEGAL STANDARD – MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of
material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of
fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in
accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party
moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a
prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;
if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing
party is then subjected to a burden of production of his
own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.”  (Ibid.)  
DISCUSSION
First Through Fourth, Sixth, and
Seventh Causes of Action
            Plaintiff’s
first through fourth, sixth, and seventh causes of action are for wage and hour
violations.  Defendants contend Plaintiff
cannot prevail because Plaintiff was exempt under the managerial or executive exemption.  The executive exemption applies to “any
employee: [¶] (a) Whose duties and responsibilities involve the management of
the enterprise in which he/she is employed or of a customarily recognized
department or subdivision thereof; and [¶] (b) Who customarily and regularly
directs the work of two or more other employees therein; and [¶] (c) Who has
the authority to hire or fire other employees or whose suggestions and
recommendations as to the hiring or firing and as to the advancement and
promotion or any other change of status of other employees will be given
particular weight; and [¶] (d) Who customarily and regularly exercises
discretion and independent judgment; and [¶] (e) Who is primarily engaged in
duties which meet the test of the exemption. . . .  [¶] (f) Such an employee must also earn a
monthly salary equivalent to no less than two (2) times the state minimum wage
for full-time employment.”  (Cal. Code
Regs., tit. 8, § 11040, subd. 1(A)(1).) 
An employee is primarily engaged in executive duties if that employee
spends more than half of his or her work time performing executive duties.  (Lab. Code, § 515, subd. (e).)  
            In
Park’s declaration in support of the motion, he avers Plaintiff worked as Huge
USA’s shipping manager, Plaintiff supervised warehouse workers, and Plaintiff’s
primary duty was “to supervise the process of packing and shipping out [Huge
USA’s] products stored in the warehouse for customer's and retailer's orders,
in conjunction with the warehouse workers who usually number around ten (10) to
twelve (12) employees.”  (Declaration of
Jin Ser Park, ¶¶ 4, 5.)  Park further
states, as shipping manager, Plaintiff’s job was to “review[] . . . Sales Order[s]
and assign[] one of the warehouse workers to pack, box, and prepare the
products in the Sales Order for shipping to the customer or retailer, or
alternatively, . . . leave[] the Sales Order[s] in a stack for the warehouse
workers to review and begin packing on their own” (id., ¶ 7); in
situations in which “there are large numbers of Sales Orders at one time, and
it is unlikely that [Huge USA] can take care of them all in a single day,”
Plaintiff would use his “discretion and judgment and independently decide which
Sales Orders to prioritize . . . by considering factors such as the size of the
Sales Order (i.e., the number of products requested by the customer or
retailer) and the date that the customer or retailer requested the products” (id.,
¶ 8); Plaintiff had “authority to hire and terminate warehouse employees” provided
Plaintiff notified Park, and Plaintiff had “authority to approve warehouse
employees' requests for time off, sick leave, and vacation days, without
seeking the approval of any other officer or employee of” Huge USA, as well as
“authority to issue . . . Warning Notices to warehouse employees and decide
when warehouse employees need to come early or stay after normal working hours”
(id., ¶ 10); and, on or about May 1, 2021, Huge USA promoted Plaintiff
to production director, which involved working in the company offices,
interfacing with Huge USA’s vendors, and “overseeing the schedule for the arrival
of goods from Chinese manufacturers” (id., ¶ 20).  
            Defendants’
evidence meets their burden of showing Plaintiff was exempt under the
managerial or executive exemption and, therefore, shifts the burden to
Plaintiff to raise triable issues of material fact as to whether that exemption
applies.
In opposition,
Plaintiff relies primarily on his own declaration.  In it, Plaintiff states he did not exercise
any independent authority, and upper management had to approve his decisions.  (Declaration of Nam Suk Park, ¶ 4); had no
authority to change the priority of sales orders or to assign sales orders to
particular employees (id., ¶ 6), to hire, fire, or discipline other
employees (id., ¶ 9), and to schedule employees (id., ¶ 11); and,
even after he transitioned into another role, he had no authority to manage or
oversee the production process or act independently (id., ¶¶ 12, 13, 15).  Plaintiff also related he was not proficient
in English or Spanish , and therefore, he had no ability to oversee nor
communicate with any of the warehouse workers. 
(Id., ¶¶ 2, 6, 25.)  
In denying he exercised
managerial powers as laid out above in the title 8, section 11040 regulation and
Labor Code section 515, Plaintiff’s testimony sufficiently debunks evidence
presented by Defendants and raises triable issues of material fact as to
whether Plaintiff was exempt under the managerial or executive exemption.  The Court, therefore, denies the motion for
summary judgment.  
Defendants also
advance evidence Plaintiff cannot prevail on his claims for meal and rest
breaks because Defendants permitted Plaintiff to take such breaks.  (Jin Ser Park Declaration, ¶ 29.)  Plaintiff does not address this issue in his opposition.
 Given such silence, Plaintiff has waived
the right to argue that issue.  (Assad
v. Southern Pacific Transportation Co. (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1609, 1615.)  Accordingly, Plaintiff has failed to raise
triable issues of material fact as to whether he can prevail on his third and
fourth causes of action.  However, the
Court must deny the motion for summary judgment, as Plaintiff raises triable
issues of material fact as to other causes of action.
Fifth Cause of Action: Failure
to Reimburse Expenses
Defendants
propounded discovery on Plaintiff, in which Defendants asked Plaintiff to state
all facts on which Plaintiff bases his fifth cause of action for failure to
reimburse business expenses.  In
response, Plaintiff stated, “Defendants required responding party to pay for
the green card processing, including attorney’s fees and the advertisement
required for the green card process with which responding party complied.”  (Declaration of Daniel E. Park, Exhibit 2.)  Plaintiff adds, in his declaration, Defendants
agreed to sponsor his green card application, but Plaintiff paid the fees and
costs.  (Declaration of Nam Suk Park, ¶
17.)  “An employer shall indemnify his or
her employee for all necessary expenditures or losses incurred by the employee
in direct consequence of the discharge of his or her duties, or of his or her
obedience to the directions of the employer . . . .”  (Lab. Code, § 2802, subd. (a).)  Plaintiff’s testimony raises triable issues
of material fact as to whether Plaintiff incurred expenses at Defendants’
direction, which Defendants failed to reimburse.  As such, Plaintiff raises triable issues of
material fact as to whether he can prevail on his fifth cause of action.
Eighth Cause of Action: Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress
            “The
elements of the tort of intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1)
extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing,
or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2)
the plaintiff's suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual
and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant's outrageous
conduct. Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of
that usually tolerated in a civilized community. The defendant must have
engaged in conduct intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the
realization that injury will result.” (Potter v. Firestone Tire & Rubber
Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 1001, internal quotations and citations omitted.)
In the complaint,
Plaintiff alleges, “During Plaintiff’s employment with Defendants, [Park]
repeatedly physically harassed Plaintiff, including smashing Plaintiff’s neck
and back, and grabbing Plaintiff’s belly without his consent.”  (Complaint, ¶ 20.)
In Park’s
declaration in support of the motion, Park states, “I have on certain occasions
tapped Plaintiff on the stomach and back.  However, when I did so, I did not intend to
hurt, offend, embarrass, or otherwise harm Plaintiff.  I meant it as a friendly gesture. Also,
Plaintiff never complained to me or to anyone to my knowledge about my tapping
him on the stomach and back.” 
(Declaration of Jin Ser Park, ¶ 30.) 
Defendants also relate, at Plaintiff’s deposition, Plaintiff testified
Park would “pinch [Plaintiff’s] stomach and grab [Plaintiff’s] stomach real
hard so it would hurt, and he would say, ‘You piece of grease.· You butter.’”  (Declaration of Daniel E. Park, Exhibit 1, p.
94.)  Additionally, in response to
Defendant’s interrogatory requests, Plaintiff related Park smashed his neck and
back and grabbed his belly, referring to it as “chunk of meats.”  (Danile E. Park Declaration, Exhibit 2,
Response to Special Interrogatory No. 49.)
Defendants’
evidence does not satisfy Defendants’ burden of demonstrating Plaintiff cannot
prevail on his claim for intentional infliction of emotional distress.  The Court cannot conclude pinching and
grabbing Plaintiff in the workplace while referring to him as grease, butter,
and chunk of meat, all of which Plaintiff perceived as insults and which made Plaintiff
feel shame and embarrassment, do not constitute extreme or outrageous conduct as
a matter of law.  Thus, Defendants have failed
to shift the burden to Plaintiff to raise triable issues of material fact as to
whether Plaintiff can prevail on his eighth cause of action.
Defendants rely on
Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, which is not on point.  In that case, the defendant was the trustee
of the decedent's trust, and the plaintiff was the decedent’s former wife. (Id.,
at p. 1039.)  The defendant made sexual
advances toward the plaintiff, suggesting that he would authorize payment from the
trust if the plaintiff would be “nice” to him, and adding the defendant would
“get [the plaintiff] on [her] knees eventually” and have sex with her.  (Id., at p. 1040.)  The California Supreme Court reasoned, “Viewed
in the context of plaintiff's legal battles, over a five-year span, with
defendant and the two other trustees regarding their allocation of the trust
funds, defendant's inappropriate comments fall far short of conduct that is so ‘outrageous’
that it ““‘“exceed[s] all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.”””’
(Id., p. 1051.)  In this case,
Plaintiff was Defendants’ employee, and not an opposing party in a contentious
legal proceeding.  Conduct that is not
outrageous between opposing parties in litigation could be outrageous in the
workplace.  Further, Park’s conduct is
not limited to insults, but also includes unwanted touching.  
For the same
reason, Defendants’ reliance on Yurick v. Superior Court (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d
1116 (Yurick) is misplaced.  In
that case, the Court of Appeal held a supervisor telling an employee in the presence
of others that anyone over 40, including the employee, was senile and the
employee was a liar did not amount to outrageous conduct.  (Id., at p. 1129.)  Again, in this case, Park admittedly touched
Plaintiff, and Plaintiff contends he perceived the unwanted touching was also intended
to insult him.  Park’s conduct is more
outrageous than the conduct that was at issue in Yurick.
Ninth Cause of Action: Battery
To state a claim
for battery, Plaintiff must show Park intentionally acted in a way that
resulted in harmful or offensive contact with Plaintiff’s body; Plaintiff did
not consent to the contact; and the contact harmed Plaintiff.  (Brown v. Ransweiler (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 516, 526.)
As set forth
above, Defendants’ own evidence demonstrates Park intentionally grabbed and
pinched Plaintiff in a way that upset Plaintiff, and to which Plaintiff did not
consent.  Defendants fail to meet their
burden to show Plaintiff cannot prevail on his ninth cause of action for
battery.  Defendants contend Plaintiff cannot
show Park intended the unwanted touching. 
However, the only evidence on this point is Park’s declaration.  As such, the Court exercises its discretion and
determines an additional basis for denying summary judgment is because, in this
instance, “a material fact is an individual's state of mind, or lack thereof,
and that fact is sought to be established solely by the individual's
affirmation thereof.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (e).)  
Tenth Cause of Action: Unfair Business
Practices                   Defendants’ only argument regarding the tenth cause of action for unfair business practices
is it fails as derivative of the causes of action for wage and hour
violations.  (See Memorandum of Points
and Authorities in Support of Motion for Summary Judgment, p. 28.)  As set forth above, Plaintiff raises triable
issues of material fact as to whether he can prevail on his wage and hour
claims.  As such, Plaintiff likewise
raises triable issues of material fact as to whether he can prevail on the
tenth cause of action for unfair business practices.
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendants’ motion for summary judgment is
denied.
Defendants are ordered to serve notice of the
Court’s order and to file proof of service concerning such notice.