 Case Number:  23TRCV01856    Hearing Date:   June 26, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
LONNIE
  LEE GIPSON, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV01856




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
TORRANCE
  CARE CENTER WEST, 


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          June 26, 2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendant Torrance Care Center
West, Inc.
Responding
Party:                  None
Motion
for an Order to Compel Plaintiffs to Respond to Request for Production
 
            The Court considered the moving papers.  No opposition was filed.
 RULING
The motion is GRANTED.
Plaintiffs Lonnie Lee Gipson and
Betty Gipson are ordered (1) to serve on defendant a verified response without
objections to defendant’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One, and (2)
to produce all documents and things in plaintiffs’ possession, custody, or
control, which are responsive to defendant’s request, within twenty days.
The Court orders that plaintiffs
pay a monetary sanction to defendant in the amount of $490 within 30 days.
BACKGROUND
On June 13, 2023, Lonnie Lee Gipson
and Betty Gipson, ind. and as guardian ad litem of Lonnie Lee Gipson, filed a
complaint against Torrance Care Center West, Inc. for (1) statutory elder
abuse/neglect, (2) violation of Patient’s Bill of Rights and Health and Safety
Codes, (3) negligence, and (4) unfair business practices.
On March 18, 2024, the court
sustained defendant’s demurrer to the first, second, and fourth causes of
action with lave to amend.  To date,
plaintiffs have not filed a FAC.  The court
granted plaintiffs’ counsel’s motion to be relieved as counsel.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Where there has been no timely
response to a CCP §2031.010 demand, the demanding party must seek an order
compelling a response.  CCP
§2031.300.  Failure to timely respond
waives all objections, including privilege and work product.  So, unless the party to whom the demand was
directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the
documents demanded.  There is no deadline
for a motion to compel responses. 
Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not attempt to
resolve the matter outside court before filing the motion.  Where the motion seeks only a response to the
inspection demand, no showing of "good cause" is required.  Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before
Trial, 8:1487.  
DISCUSSION
            Defendant
Torrance Care Center West, Inc. requests that the Court compel plaintiffs
Lonnie Lee Gipson and Betty Gipson to respond to Request for Production of
Documents, Set One.
            Defendant asserts that on December
11, 2023, defendant served plaintiffs with written discovery.  Responses were due by January 15, 2024.  Subsequent thereto, defendant extended the
time for plaintiffs to provide responses on three separate occasions, with the
last extension granted on January 30, 2024, with a due date of April 15,
2024.  On May 14, 2024, defense counsel
attempted to contact Betty Gipson by phone and sent a meet and confer letter by
email and registered letter, offering to provide an extension to May 22,
2024.  After receiving no response,
defense counsel attempted to meet and confer and left a voice mail
message.  To date, defense counsel has
not received responses.
            There is no opposition. 
            The Court finds that defendant
properly served written discovery and plaintiffs failed to timely serve
responses, and thus have waived objections.
            Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED.
            Sanctions
Under CCP
§ 2023.030(a), “[t]he court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that
conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction is
authorized by any provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  Under CCP § 2023.010, an
example of the misuse of the discovery process is “(d) Failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery.” 
Sanctions are mandatory in
connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories and requests for
production of documents against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel unless the court “finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  CCP §§ 2030.290(c), 2031.300(c).
Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348(a) states: 
“The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a
party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the
motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested
discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”
            Defendant
requests $1,060 in sanctions against plaintiffs.  The Court finds that $490 ($215/hr. x 2 hrs.,
filing fee) is a reasonable amount to be imposed against plaintiffs.
 
ORDER
The motion is GRANTED.
Plaintiffs Lonnie Lee Gipson and
Betty Gipson are ordered (1) to serve on defendant a verified response without
objections to defendant’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One, and (2)
to produce all documents and things in plaintiffs’ possession, custody, or
control, which are responsive to defendant’s request, within twenty days.
The Court orders that plaintiffs
pay a monetary sanction to defendant in the amount of $490 within 30 days.
Defendant
is ordered to give notice of this ruling.