On October 15, 2021, Plaintiff Rafie Rafiee filed the Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against Defendants Daniel Dangoor, Iman Eshaghyan, Mina Eshaghyan, Re Broker Group, Inc., Re eBroker Group Inc., Coldwell Banker Realty, Golcheh Family Trust Dated August 3, 2016 (“Trust”), Morad Golcheh, and Nahid Golcheh for (1) intentional misrepresentation, (2) negligent misrepresentation, (3) unjust enrichment, (4) conversion, (5) violation of the UCL, (6) breach of contract, (7) breach of implied contract, and (8) violation of Penal Code § 496.  Plaintiff alleges that when he purchased certain real property, Defendants promised to pay for and provide certain furniture, which Plaintiff never received.  Plaintiff also alleges that Defendants promised that Plaintiff could have his cabinets stained for only $2,000 when they knew or should have known the real cost was about $10,000.  On December 19, 2023, the Court granted the summary judgment motion of Defendants Morad Golcheh and Nahid Golcheh.On November 13, 2023, Plaintiff Rafiee and Defendants Iman Eshaghyan, Mina Eshaghyan, Re eBroker Group Inc., and Coldwell Banker Realty filed a notice of settlement and an application to determine that the settlement was made in good faith.  The thrust of the settlement is that Defendants will tender $10,000 for a release of all claims.Defendant Dangoor now seeks to challenge the good faith nature of the aforementioned settlement.  Dangoor contends that the settling Defendants, despite their major role in this controversy and Dangoor’s relatively minor role, have tendered a very small amount, which exposes Dangoor to an unfair proportion of liability that could exceed $150,000 at this juncture.  Dangoor also notes that he is a mere individual and that it is the settling Defendants that have a much better financial condition and insurance options.  Finally, Dangoor argues that Plaintiff’s counsel has engaged in some kind of tortious conduct because he has a personal vendetta against Dangoor and seeks to punish Dangoor.  Dangoor states that Plaintiff’s counsel has previously sought to batter him.Under Code Civ. Proc. § 877.6, a good faith settlement discharges the settling defendant from liability for contribution or indemnity to any other joint tortfeasor.  Guidelines for determining a good faith settlement include: (1) assessing whether the settlement reflects the rights and liabilities of the parties; (2) the amount paid; (3) the allocation among plaintiffs; (4) recognizing that the amount will normally be less than the defendant would pay upon losing at trial; (5) defendants’ insurance policy limits and financial condition; and (6) existence of collusion, fraud or tortious conduct aimed at injuring the interests of other defendants.  (Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Assoc. (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499.)As to the first and second Tech-Bilt factors, the settlement amount is not so far out of the ballpark relative to the parties’ liabilities to be inconsistent with the equitable objectives of Code Civ. Proc. § 877.6.  This is because the Court believes that Dangoor greatly overstates the amount Plaintiff could actually obtain in this action.  The $10,000 amount appears to the Court to signal a fair compromise of this matter under all of the circumstances, particularly as the amount of damages may be difficult for Plaintiff to prove.  Likewise, the $10,000 amount is somewhat less than what would be obtained if Plaintiff prevailed at trial, consistent with the fourth factor.Next, the third factor is not applicable; indeed, there is no issue as to an allocation amongst the plaintiffs, as Rafiee is the only Plaintiff.  Further, the Court finds Dangoor’s evidence as to fraud and collusion to be insubstantial.  Whatever personal issues exist do not detract from the fairness of the settlement’s terms, particularly as it pertains to the settling Defendants, who are uninvolved in any personal controversy.  Lastly, even if the settling Defendants have a better financial condition and insurance policy, this factor is not alone sufficient to find that the settlement was not made in good faith.In sum, Dangoor has failed to demonstrate “that the settlement is so far ‘out of the ballpark’ in relation to [the Tech-Bilt] factors as to be inconsistent with the equitable objectives of the statute.”  (Tech-Bilt, Inc., supra, 38 Cal. 3d at pp. 499–500.)  The Motion to Challenge the Settlement is denied. The objections are overruled.  The RJN is granted.Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.