 Case Number:  24SMCV00651    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Shen, et al.,
v. Li, et al.
CASE NO.:                24SMCV00651
MOTION:                  Motion
for Change of Venue
HEARING DATE:   9/11/2024
 
Legal
Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) §
397(a) provides that “the court may, on motion, change the place of trial in
the following cases: (a) [w]hen the court designated in the complaint is not
the proper court.” “The moving party must overcome the presumption that the
plaintiff has selected the proper venue. [Citation] Thus, ‘[i]t is the moving
defendant’s burden to demonstrate that the plaintiff’s venue selection is not
proper under any of the statutory grounds.’ [Citation] In opposing the motion
to change venue, ‘[t]he plaintiff may bolster his or her choice of venue with
counter-affidavits consistent with the complaint’s theory of the type of action
but amplifying the allegations relied upon for venue.’ [Citation.]”  (Fontaine
v. Superior Court (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 830, 836.)  
 
Generally, “where a plaintiff takes
advantage of the liberal statutory joinder rules and joins various causes of
action against various defendants, so long as the plaintiff chooses a venue
that is proper as to one defendant, the entire case may be tried there,
regardless of whether venue would be improper with respect to other defendants
if the causes of action against them were analyzed separately.” (K.R.L.
Partnership v. Superior Court (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 490,
504.) 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Plaintiffs’ request for judicial
notice is GRANTED.
 
Defendants Lingxiao Li (a.k.a.
Lingxiao D. Li, a.k.a. Tim Li, individually and as Trustee of The Cornerstone
Irrevocable Discretionary Trust, Trustee of The Kettleman Irrevocable
Discretionary Trust, Trustee of The Lincoln Irrevocable Discretionary Trust,
Trustee of The Northwest Irrevocable Discretionary Trust, Trustee of The
Rayburn Irrevocable Discretionary Trust, and Trustee of The Sunrise Irrevocable
Discretionary Trust); Shuo Li (a.k.a. Steve Li, a.k.a. Steven Li); An Hu; Astro
Management LLC; Canyon Lane Trust; 2127 LLC; Apple Blossom Foundation; Sycamore
Holding LLC; Coastline Holding Corp.; Horizon Holding Group; 9920 Holding LLC;
9920 Management LLC; IY International Inc.; Clisen EOW Inc; Inspire Lab; Lux
International Group; and LUX (Cayman) Limited (collectively “Defendants”) move
for an order transferring this action from the Los Angeles County Superior
Court to the San Bernardino County Superior Court, citing CCP section 392(a).
Plaintiffs Jinwan Shen and Da Bai Niu (“Plaintiffs”) argue that venue is proper
Los Angeles County because some of the individual and corporate defendants
reside here, citing CCP section 395(a).
 
CCP section 395(a) provides in
relevant part: “Except as otherwise provided by law and subject to the power of
the court to transfer actions or proceedings as provided in this title, the superior
court in the county where the defendants or some of them reside at the
commencement of the action is the proper court for the trial of the action.”
(See Enter v. Crutcher (1958) 159 Cal.App.2d Supp. 841, 845
[“reside” means “actual bodily presence in the place combined with a freely
exercised intention of remaining there permanently or for an indefinite time”].)
 
 CCP section 392(a)(1) provides an exception to
this general rule: “Subject to the power of the court to transfer actions and
proceedings as provided in this title, the superior court in the county where
the real property that is the subject of the action, or some part thereof, is
situated, is the proper court for the trial of the following actions: (1) For
the recovery of real property, or of an estate or interest therein, or for the
determination in any form, of that right or interest, and for injuries to real
property.”
 
For venue purposes, actions are
classified as “local” or “transitory.” (Brown v. Superior Court (1984)
37 Cal.3d 477, 482, 488, n.5.) To determine whether an action is “local” or
“transitory” in a “mixed” action, trial courts look to the “main relief
sought.” (Id.) The “main relief” rule “comes into
operation when the court is required to select between inconsistent venue rules
because the complaint prays for two distinct types of relief, one local and one
transitory.” (Dow AgroSciences LLC v. Superior Court (2017) 16
Cal.App.5th 1067, 1078.) Where the main relief sought is personal and could
have arisen anywhere, the action is transitory, and venue is appropriate in the
county in which some of the defendants reside at the commencement of the action.
(Brown, supra, 37 Cal.3d at 483.) Courts will apply the special venue
rule set forth in section 392(a) when the main relief sought pertains to a real
property right, notwithstanding any incidental demands for personal relief. (Id.)
“On the other hand, if the main relief requested is personal, fraud damages as
an example, and a real property right is only incidentally involved such that
it does not change the transitory character of the action, the section 392(a)
exception will not be applied.” (Id., citing, e.g., Los Angeles City
School Dist. v. Redwood Empire Title Co. (1962) 206 Cal.App.2d 398,
402-403; see also Central Bank v. Superior Court¿(1973) 30 Cal.App.3d
913, 917-918 [“main relief” was transitory, where plaintiff sought the value of
labor and materials rendered and foreclosure of a mechanic's lien on improved
property; demand for lien foreclosure was only incidental to damages]; see also
Los Angeles City Sch. Dist. v. Redwood Empire Title Co. of Mendocino Cnty.
(1962) 206 Cal. App. 2d 398, 400 [suit to set aside various fraudulent conveyances
of real property was transitory in nature, as setting aside the conveyances
simply removed obstructions from realizing a valid final judgment and the
determination of real property interest was incidental to the fraud].)
 
Plaintiffs’ original complaint
presents a mixed action, seeking both personal damages on counts of fraud,
breach of fiduciary duty, breach of contract and conversion, as well as
determinations as to the ownership rights of certain real property through the
rescission, fraudulent transfer and constructive trust causes. Plaintiffs
allege that they were induced by Li to transfer approximately $84 million to Li.
Li would then use the funds to set up business ventures in Los Angeles, Orange,
Riverside, and San Bernardino in order to purchase real properties. Plaintiffs
were to contribute 70% and Defendant Li was to contribute 30% of the capital
for purchasing specific real properties. (Compl., ¶¶ 81-88, 128-138.)
Plaintiffs would thereby and allegedly have 70% ownership and Defendants 30%
over each respective real property holding companies and/or real properties and
businesses. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants diverted or squandered the funds.
(Compl., ¶¶ 71-80.) From 2019 to late 2023, Li allegedly encumbered multiple
real properties, executing fraudulent deeds of trust, and taking out
multimillion-dollar bank loans for their own benefit. For example, Defendants
used Plaintiffs’ funds to purchase real properties and startup businesses but
took 100% title to those properties, omitting Plaintiffs from any ownership
over the defendant entities. (Compl., ¶¶ 118-130.) 
 
In the prayer, the Complaint
requests that the Court: award compensatory damages of $84.0 million; strip
Defendant Li and other defendants of all powers and control over the monetary
assets of the Trusts, including subsidiary entities of the Trusts and any and
all of the Plaintiff entities and Defendant entities identified; enjoin
Defendants from transferring, selling, conveying, assigning or otherwise
disposing of the aforementioned properties; appoint a receiver regarding
the properties; rescind the various agreements at issue, including those
pertaining to the ownership interest of the properties; remove of the
individual defendants from the various corporations which own the properties;
set aside the transfers of the real properties at issue; and impose a constructive
trust on the aforementioned properties; an accounting of Trust assets. Thus,
the complaint seeks, in part, determination of real property interests. Such
relief is local in nature. 
 
While the complaint does present a
mixed-nature action, and the “main relief” sought might pertain to real
property, venue would still be appropriate in Los Angeles County under section
392(a). Critically, at least one of the subject properties is located in Los
Angeles County. In early 2021, Li suggested the purchase of a Holiday Inn Hotel
located at 9920 Valley Blvd., El Monte, Los Angeles County, CA. (“Hotel
Property”). (Compl., ¶¶ 81-82.) Plaintiff Shen contributed $20,000,000.00 via
his company, Da Bai Niu, for the initial purchase payment for the Hotel
Property in March 2021. (¶¶ 83-85.) Li did not keep Plaintiffs apprised of the
particulars of the investment. (¶¶ 83-88.) Defendants concealed certain
material facts about the Hotel Property, including that there was a $10 million
loan in connection with the purchase of the Hotel Property. (¶ 130A.) This was
contrary to previously verbal representations that there was no loan taken out
in connection with the Hotel Property. (Id.) The “aforementioned properties” in
the prayer would necessarily include the Hotel Property in El Monte, Los
Angeles County. Thus, the proper venue under section 392 would be Los Angeles
County, the county where part of the subject properties is situated. Otherwise,
the proper venue is Los Angeles County under section 395, because it is home to
several defendants. 
 
This approach is consistent with
long standing caselaw discussing venue involving multiple parcels of land
across different counties. For example, in Young, “the property involved
was situated in Los Angeles, Kern and Orange counties. This fact gave the
superior court of Los Angeles County jurisdiction of the action under the clear
provisions of section 392 of the Code of Civil Procedure . . ..” (Young v.
Young Holdings Corp. (1938) 27 Cal.App.2d 129, 147.) In All-Cool,
the court commented that if “the first cause of action in complaint which
sought to enforce lien upon land located in San Luis Obispo County stood
alone, order changing venue to San Luis Obispo County would be proper.
[Citations.] But there is an equally well established rule in this state that,
if and when there are combined in separate causes of action in a single
complaint a local action and a transitory action, the case must remain in the
county of a defendant's residence upon the insistence of that defendant.
Thus, when a plaintiff combines in a single complaint a cause of action against
one or more defendants, which separately considered, is purely local in nature,
with a second cause of action, which separately considered is purely transitory
in nature, if the action is brought in a county where one of the defendants has
his residence, such defendant is entitled to a retention of the case for trial[.]”
(All-Cool Aluminum Awning Co. v. Superior Court of Kern County (1964) 224
Cal.App.2d 660, 666, emphasis added.)
 
Accordingly, the motion is DENIED.