  Case Number:  22PSCV01611    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant George Liu’s Demurrer
to the Second Amended Complaint
Respondent: Plaintiff Loa
Int’l (USA) Transport Co. Inc.
Defendant
George Liu’s Motion to
Strike Portions of the Second Amended Complaint
Respondent:
Plaintiff Loa Int’l (USA)
Transport Co. Inc.
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant George Liu’s Demurrer
to the Second Amended Complaint is OVERRULED.
Defendant
George Liu’s Motion to
Strike Portions of the Second Amended Complaint is DENIED.
Defendant George Liu to
file an Answer to the Seconded Amended Complaint in ten (10) days.
BACKGROUND
This
is a breach of contract action arising between an employer and former employee.
Plaintiff Loa Int’l (USA) Transport Co. Inc. (Loa) is a transportation business
that worked closely with RL Jones, a customs brokerage and international
logistics company in Texas. Defendant George Liu was an employee of Loa who
worked closely with RL Jones and was aware of the business relationship between
RL Jones and Loa. On July 6, 2022, Liu resigned from employment with Loa and
signed a confidentiality and non-disclosure agreement. On September 14, 2022, Liu
allegedly sent an email to RL Jones posing as a current employee of Loa to
obtain Loa’s pricing and attempt to secure RL Jones as a customer for Liu. Liu
also allegedly disclosed Loa’s pricing to RL Jones.
On
November 1, 2022, Loa filed a complaint against Liu and Does 1-20, alleging the
following causes of action: (1) breach of contract, (2) intentional
interference with contractual relations, (3) intentional interference with
prospective economic relations, (4) violation of California Unfair Competition
Law, (5) trade secret misappropriation, and (6) common law trademark
infringement. On April 6, 2023, the court sustained Liu’s demurrer to Loa’s
Complaint.
On May
8, 2023, Loa filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) against the same defendants
alleging the same causes of action. On September 27, the court sustained Liu’s
demurrer to Loa’s FAC.
On
September 29, 2023, Liu filed a cross-complaint against Loa and Roes 1-100,
alleging the following causes of action: (1) failure to pay overtime/earned
wages, (2) failure to provide meal periods, (3) failure to provide rest
periods, (4) waiting time penalties, (5) misclassification, (6) failure to
provide one rest day in seven, and (7) violation of Business and Professions
Code section 17200 et seq.
On
October 18, 2023, Loa filed a Second Amended Complaint (SAC) against the same
defendants alleging the same causes of action.
On November 17, 2023, Liu
filed the present demurrer and motion to strike. Prior to filing, Liu’s counsel
telephonically met and conferred with Loa’s counsel on November 10. (Feazell
Decl., ¶ 6.)
A hearing on the present
motions and case management conference are set for January 23, 2024.
ANALYSIS
Demurrer
Liu
demurs to Loa’s second cause of action (intentional interference with
contractual relations).  For the following reasons,
the court OVERRULES Liu’s demurrer.
Legal
Standard
Demurrer
A party may demur to a complaint on the grounds
that it “does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) A demurrer tests whether the complaint
states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747
(Hahn).) When considering demurrers, courts accept all well pleaded
facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068,
1078.) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of
the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF
Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra,
at p. 747.)
Intentional Interference with Contractual
Relations
The elements of a cause of action for intentional
interference with contractual relations are “(1) a valid contract between
plaintiff and a third party; (2) defendant’s knowledge of this contract; (3)
defendant’s intentional acts designed to induce a breach or disruption of the
contractual relationship; (4) actual breach or disruption of the contractual
relationship; and (5) resulting damage.” (I-CA Enterprises, Inc. v. Palram
Americas, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 257, 289.)
Discussion
In this case, Liu argues Loa’s cause of action
for intentional interference with contractual relations is insufficiently pled
because the SAC failed to establish the existence of a contractual relationship
between Loa and a third party. In sustaining Liu’s previous demurrer to Loa’s FAC,
the court found allegations that Loa “worked closely with RL Jones” and that
Liu was “aware of substantial business activities between Loa and [RL Jones]” were
insufficient to allege a contractual relationship between Loa and RL Jones. (09/27/2023
Ruling, p. 3, quoting FAC, ¶ 10-11.)
Here, however, the SAC provided further detail,
stating RL Jones ships roughly 15 containers a month with Loa receiving $2,000
in profit per container. (SAC, ¶ 50.) The SAC also alleges that Liu’s conduct
led to the end of the contractual relationship between RL Jones and Loa. (SAC,
¶ 52.) The court finds these facts are sufficient to adequately allege the
existence of a contractual relationship between Loa and a third-party.
Liu also argues the SAC failed to establish how
Liu interfered with or disrupted the contractual relations between Loa and RL
Jones. In September 2022, the SAC alleges Liu posed as an employee of Loa by
sending RL Jones an email that still used Loa’s logo in the email signature and
copied Liu’s former Loa email addresses. (SAC, ¶ 17, Ex. A.) In
other communications, Liu allegedly disclosed Loa’s pricing to RL Jones “in
order to ‘beat it’” and obtain RL Jones’s business. (SAC, ¶ 18.) Last, the SAC
alleges Liu expressly instructed RL Jones to stop doing business with Loa.
(SAC, ¶ 51.) As a result, the SAC alleges RL Jones’s business relationship with
Loa ended. (SAC, ¶ 21, 52-53.) These facts are sufficient to adequately allege
how Liu disrupted or interfered with Loa and RL Jones’s contractual
relationship.
Accordingly,
Liu’s demurrer to this cause of action is OVERRULED.
Motion
to Strike
Liu
moves to strike punitive damages from Loa’s SAC. For the following reasons, the
court DENIES Liu’s motion.
Legal
Standard
Motion
to Strike
Upon
a party’s motion or the court’s own motion, the court may strike any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also “[s]trike out all or any part of
any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule, or an order of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).)
“The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged
pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take judicial
notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (a).)
An
immaterial or irrelevant allegation includes “(1) An allegation that is not
essential to the statement of a claim or defense,” “(2)¿An allegation that is
neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or
defense,” or “(3)¿A demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the
allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10.)
Punitive
Damages
Civil
Code section 3294 allows punitive damages when a plaintiff establishes by clear
and convincing evidence that a defendant is guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) For the purposes of determining
punitive damages, malice is defined as “conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) Oppression is
defined as “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust
hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.” (Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (c)(2).) Lastly, fraud is defined as “an intentional misrepresentation,
deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the
intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of
property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (c)(3).)
“In
addition to the requirement that the operative complaint set forth the elements
as stated in section 3294, it must include specific factual allegations showing
that defendant's conduct was oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious to support a
claim for punitive damages.” (Today’s IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1137, 1193.)
Furthermore, “[p]unitive damages may not be pleaded generally.” (Ibid.)
Discussion
In this case,
Liu contends the SAC failed to allege sufficient facts to establish Liu’s
conduct was fraudulent, oppressive, or malicious. But in alleging Liu
intentionally interfered with Loa’s business, the SAC has adequately established
Liu intended to cause injury to Loa by stealing its business. Thus, the SAC sufficiently
alleged Liu’s actions were malicious.
Accordingly,
Liu’s motion to strike punitive damages is DENIED.
CONCLUSION
Based
on the foregoing, Liu’s demurrer to Loa’s second cause of action is OVERRULED.
Furthermore, Liu’s motion to strike portions of Loa’s SAC is DENIED. 
Defendant George Liu to file
an Answer to the Seconded Amended Complaint in ten (10) days.