 Case Number:  22STCV33280    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 




CHUANJIE YANG, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
MARKET AMERICA, INC., et al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV33280




Hearing Date:


December 15, 2023




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




TENTATIVE
  RULING RE:
 
MOTION OF
  SPECIALLY APPEARING DEFENDANT LOREN RIDINGER, IN HER CAPACITY AS PERSONAL
  REPRESENTATIVE OF THE ESTATE OF JAMES HOWARD RIDINGER, TO QUASH FOR LACK OF
  PERSONAL JURISDICTION
 




 
Background 
Plaintiffs Chuanjie Yang, Ollie Lan aka Ruoning Lan, Yu Xia Lu,
and Liu Liu (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action on October 11, 2022
against Defendants Market America, Inc., Market America Worldwide, Inc., James
Howard Ridinger, Loren Ridinger, and Marc Ashley. The Complaint alleges one
cause of action for declaratory relief. 
On August 21, 2023, Plaintiffs field an Amendment to Complaint
(Fictitious/Incorrect Name) substituting the true name “Loren Ridinger, as
Representative of the Estate of James Howard Ridinger” for the name “James
Howard Ridinger” wherever it appears in the Complaint.
            Specially
appearing defendant Loren Ridinger, in her capacity as personal
representative of the estate of James Howard Ridinger (the “Estate”) now moves
for an order quashing service of summons and dismissing the claims against the
Estate.[1]
Plaintiffs oppose.   
Request for Judicial
Notice 
The Court grants the Estate’s request for
judicial notice as to Exhibits 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 11, and 12. The Court denies
the request for judicial notice as to Exhibits 8, 9, and 10. 
Evidentiary Objections 
In
their opposition to the instant motion, Plaintiffs state that they “object
to much of the evidence offered in the related Motions based on relevance. No
Court has decided the singular issue herein; whether Defendants are precluded
from requesting arbitration based on the failure to pay AAA fees. Extrinsic
e-mails, unrelated proceedings where Market America was unsuccessful in
enjoining this action, and the stayed Federal Action on the merits claims bear
no issue on the discrete issue raised in these proceedings. Thus, these
extraneous materials and statements should not be considered.” (Opp’n at p.
7:21-26.) The
Court notes that it is unclear what “extraneous materials and statements”
Plaintiffs are referring to. The Court thus overrules the “evidentiary
objections” contained at page 7:21-26 of Plaintiffs’ opposition.
Discussion
Code
of Civil Procedure section 418.10 provides in part: “A defendant, on or before the last day of his
or her time to plead or within any further time that the court may for good
cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion … (1) To quash service of
summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd. (a).) 
“California
courts may exercise jurisdiction on any basis that is not inconsistent with the
state and federal Constitutions. Thus, the inquiry in California is whether the
assertion of personal jurisdiction comports with the limits imposed by federal
due process.” (Young v.
Daimler AG (2014) 228
Cal.App.4th 855, 865 [internal quotations and citations omitted].) Due
process permits courts to exercise personal jurisdiction over nonresidents who
have “minimum contact” with the forum state such that the exercise of
jurisdiction does not offend “traditional notions of fair play and substantial
justice.” (Int’l
Shoe Co. v. Wash. (1945) 326 U.S. 310, 316.)
“Personal
jurisdiction may be either general or specific.” (Vons
Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 445.) 
A.    General
Jurisdiction 
“A nonresident defendant may be
subject to the general jurisdiction of the forum
if his or her contacts in the forum state are substantial . . . continuous and
systematic. In such a case, it is not necessary that the specific cause of
action alleged be connected with the defendant’s business relationship to the
forum. Such a defendant’s contacts with the forum are so wide-ranging
that they take the place of physical presence in the forum as a basis for
jurisdiction.” (Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest
Foods, Inc., supra, 14
Cal.4th at pp. 445-446 [internal quotations, citations, and emphasis
omitted.]) 
First, the Estate asserts that this Court does not have general
personal jurisdiction over the Estate. The Estate submits the Declaration of
Loren Ridinger, who states that she is “the personal representative of the
Estate of [her] late husband, James Howard Ridinger (‘Mr. Ridinger’) and, in
that capacity, [she is] specially appearing in this action on behalf of the
[sic] Mr. Ridinger’s estate…” (Ridinger Decl., ¶ 1.) 
Loren Ridinger states that “I am domiciled at my residence in Miami,
Florida, and conduct my business activities primarily at Market America’s
business location in Miami, Florida and at the corporate headquarters in
Greensboro, North Carolina.” (Ridinger Decl., ¶ 3.) Loren Ridinger further
states that “[t]he statements in paragraphs 3 through 8 of this Declaration
were true as to my late husband, Mr. Ridinger, and are also true as to his
Estate. Mr. Ridinger passed away on August 30, 2022, prior to the commencement
of this action on October 11, 2022. A probate of the Estate has been commenced,
and is currently pending, in Florida, which was Mr. Ridinger’s domicile at the
time of his death. In my capacity as the personal representative of the Estate,
I have had no contact with California other than defending against the present
lawsuit.” (Ridinger Decl., ¶ 9.) 
Plaintiffs do not appear to dispute that the Court does not have
general jurisdiction over the Estate. Rather, Plaintiffs state that they “limit
their jurisdictional contentions to those under the ‘specific’ prong.” (Opp’n
at p. 3:11-12.) 
 
B.     Specific
Jurisdiction 
“If general jurisdiction is not established,
a nonresident defendant may still be subject to California’s specific jurisdiction if a three-prong test is
met.” (Gilmore Bank v. AsiaTrust New Zealand Ltd. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th
1558, 1568 [internal emphasis omitted].) “Specific
jurisdiction will be found over an out-of-state defendant only when (1) the
[out-of-state] defendant has purposefully availed himself or herself of forum
benefits, (2) the controversy [giving rise to the present lawsuit] is related
to or arises out of [the] defendant’s contacts with the forum, and (3) the
assertion of personal jurisdiction would comport with fair play and substantial
justice. The plaintiff asking the forum state to exert jurisdiction over the
out-of-state defendant bears the initial burden of establishing the first
two elements by a preponderance of the evidence, and if the plaintiff does so,
the out-of-state defendant then bears the burden of convincing the court why
the exertion of personal jurisdiction would not comport with fair play and substantial
justice.” (Jacqueline B. v. Rawls Law Group, P.C. (2021) 68 Cal.App.5th 243, 253 [internal
quotations, citations, and emphasis omitted].) 
 “The
United States Supreme Court has described the forum contacts necessary to
establish specific jurisdiction as involving variously a nonresident who has
‘purposefully directed’ his or her activities at forum residents, or who has
‘purposefully derived benefit’ from forum activities, or ‘purposefully avail[ed
himself or herself] of the privilege of conducting activities within the forum
State, thus invoking the benefits and protections of its laws.’” (Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 446 [internal citations omitted].) 
The Estate asserts that here, the Estate did not purposefully avail
itself of forum benefits. In her supporting declaration, Loren Ridinger states
that “[i]n 1992, along Mr. Ridinger, I co-founded Market America, Inc. (‘Market
America’). Since that time, I have served in a wide range of capacities for
Market America including Senior Executive Vice President of the company; I am
currently serving as the Chief Executive Officer of the company.” (Ridinger
Decl., ¶ 2.) Loren Ridinger states that “I am domiciled at my residence in
Miami, Florida, and conduct my business activities primarily at Market
America’s business location in Miami, Florida and at the corporate headquarters
in Greensboro, North Carolina.” (Ridinger Decl., ¶ 3.) She further states that
“I have not created continuing contractual obligations with California
residents related to the allegations in the present Complaint. I am not a party
to the Distributor Agreement with any of the Plaintiffs, nor did I negotiate
that agreement, or have any contact with Plaintiffs.” (Ridinger Decl., ¶ 4.) In
addition, she states that “[m]y business activities take place primarily in
Florida and North Carolina, and I have not purposely directed business
activities toward or engaged in significant activities in California related to
the allegations in the present Complaint.” (Ridinger Decl., ¶ 6.) She also
states that “I do not lease or own any real or personal property located in
California. Nor do I maintain any bank account or telephone number there,” and
that “[a]side from an occasional family vacation or business conference, I have
had no meaningful contacts with California.” (Ridinger Decl., ¶¶ 7-8.) 
Loren Ridinger states, as set forth above, that “[t]he statements in
paragraphs 3 through 8 of this Declaration were true as to my late husband, Mr.
Ridinger, and are also true as to his Estate. Mr. Ridinger passed away on
August 30, 2022, prior to the commencement of this action on October 11, 2022.
A probate of the Estate has been commenced, and is currently pending, in
Florida, which was Mr. Ridinger’s domicile at the time of his death. In my
capacity as the personal representative of the Estate, I have had no contact
with California other than defending against the present lawsuit.” (Ridinger
Decl., ¶ 9.) 
The Estate also asserts that the Complaint does not arise out of the
Estate’s contacts with California. In the Complaint, Plaintiffs allege that
this action concerns the failure
of defendants “to pay arbitration fees in four separate arbitration demands in
violation of California Code of Civil Procedure
§1281.97.” (Compl., ¶ 1, emphasis omitted.) Plaintiffs allege that on May 9, 2022, Plaintiffs initiated arbitration demands before the
American Arbitration Association (“AAA”), Los Angeles Filing Division. (Compl.,
¶¶ 10-13.) 
Plaintiffs allege that
“[o]n July 14, 2022, AAA sent an invoice to Defendants demanding $1,900 in Case
No. 01-22-0002-1313, $1,900 in Case No. 01-22-0002-1316, $1,900 in Case No.
01-22-0002-1318, and $1,900 in Case No. 01-22-0002-1321 (‘Demands’). Pursuant
to the Demands, Plaintiffs asserted substantive labor and consumer claims that
they had not previously asserted in any arbitration.” (Compl., ¶ 14.)
Plaintiffs seek “a judicial declaration, provisional relief, and declaratory
relief that the matter must proceed in a Court as to proper jurisdiction based
on Defendants’ failure to pay the fees demanded by AAA due by July 28, 2022.”
(Compl., Prayer for Relief, ¶ A.) 
In his declaration in
support of the instant motion, the Estate’s counsel states that “[o]n
October 8, 2019…Plaintiffs filed an arbitration demand (the “Joint Arbitration
Demand”) with the American Arbitration Association (‘AAA’) on behalf of the
five plaintiffs who had brought [certain] C.D. Cal. and N.D. Cal. lawsuits:
Yang, Lan, Lu, Liu, and Zou.” (Steinberg Decl., ¶ 7.) “[O]n August 18, 2020,
all five Claimants filed a motion for partial summary adjudication seeking a
ruling from the Arbitrator that the Arbitration Agreement was illusory and
unenforceable…” (Steinberg Decl., ¶ 9.) “On March 8, 2022, Arbitrator
Schoenfeld issued an order…denying Claimants’ motion for summary adjudication…”
(Steinberg Decl., ¶ 11.) 
In addition, the Estate’s counsel states that “Claimants (including
all four of the individuals named as Plaintiffs herein) contested the
applicable AAA fee schedule, contending that, notwithstanding the fact that the
Distributor Agreement provides that AAA’s Commercial Arbitration Rules would
apply, AAA should apply its Employment Rules fee schedule, the result of which
would have been to place the entire burden of the arbitration fees on Market
America. After briefing, Arbitrator Schoenfeld issued a December 16, 2021
order…ruling that the dispute ‘appears to be more commercial than consumer or
employment in nature,’ and, accordingly, arbitrator fees and expenses are to be
borne equally by Claimants and Market America.” (Steinberg Decl., ¶ 10.) 
“[O]n May 9, 2022, Plaintiffs’ counsel dismissed four of the five
Claimants from the Joint Arbitration Demand (leaving Zou as the sole remaining
Claimant before Arbitrator Schoenfeld), and filed four new individual
arbitrations (the ‘Four Individual Arbitration Demands’) with AAA, one each on
behalf of Yang, Lan, Lu and Liu.” (Steinberg Decl., ¶ 12.) The Estate’s counsel
indicates that “[o]n May 9, 2022, Plaintiffs’ counsel purported to file Four
Individual Arbitration Demands under AAA’s Employment Arbitration Rules, one
each on behalf of Yang, Lan, Lu and Liu… AAA’s administrative staff (the
‘Employment Filing Team’)…issued invoices to the parties in connection with the
Four Individual Arbitration Demands in amounts consistent with the AAA
Employment fee schedule. When Market America’s counsel wrote to the Employment
Filing Team…and pointed out that there had already been a ruling by Arbitrator
Schoenfeld on this issue, the AAA Employment Filing Team demurred, and, on
October 21, 2022, administratively closed the Four Individual Arbitration
Demands, stating that AAA would abide by an applicable court order…” (Steinberg
Decl., ¶ 13.) The Estate’s counsel states that “[t]he AAA is a national
organization with offices around the country. There was never an arbitrator
appointed in response to the Four Individual Arbitration Demands, and there
were no hearings held on the matter anywhere.” (Steinberg Decl., ¶ 13.)
The Estate asserts that “the alleged failure…to pay AAA arbitration
fees resulting in the administrative closing of the Individual Arbitration
Demands on October 21, 2023 [sic] occurred after Mr. Ridinger had already
passed, and, in any event, has no nexus with any California action or
omission.” (Mot. at p. 12:26-28.)[2]
The Estate also asserts that “Mr. Ridinger’s only California contacts were an
occasional vacation or business conference, and the Estate has no California
contacts…Plaintiff’s arbitration waiver claims alleged in the Complaint do not
arise out of Mr. Ridinger or Estate’s very limited contacts with the state of
California.” (Mot. at p. 13:10-13; citing Ridinger Decl. ¶¶ 8, 9.)
In the opposition, Plaintiffs cite to Zehia v. Superior Court (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th
543, 553, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “[o]ur Supreme Court has described the ‘effects test’ as a test
governing whether a defendant in an intentional tort action has purposefully
availed himself of the forum benefits. The purposeful availment inquiry …
focuses on the defendant’s intentionality. This prong is only satisfied when the defendant purposefully and
voluntarily directs his activities toward the forum so that he should expect,
by virtue of the benefit he receives, to be subject to the court’s jurisdiction
based on his contacts with the forum.” (Internal quotations and citations
omitted.) 
In Zehia, the Court of
Appeal “address[ed] whether California may exercise specific
personal jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant who sent
allegedly defamatory statements to California residents through private
online social media messages with the aim of interfering with the residents’
personal relationships. Resident Nicholas Nadhir sued nonresident defendant,
Yousef Zehia, for defamation, violation of the online impersonation
law…appropriation of name or likeness, and intentional infliction of emotional
distress based on the conduct just described. Zehia moved to quash service of
summons and the trial court denied the motion to quash on grounds that the
exercise of specific personal jurisdiction over Zehia was proper.” (Zehia v. Superior Court, supra, 45
Cal.App.5th at pp. 546-547.) The Court of Appeal found that “the
trial court correctly denied the motion to quash,” and concluded that “Zehia’s suit-related conduct
established a substantial connection with California. By sending California-focused messages and
conversations directly to California residents for the alleged purpose of
interfering with the relationship of California residents and causing
reputational injury in California, Zehia has purposefully reach[ed] out beyond
[his s]tate and into California. As such, he must reasonably anticipate being
haled into court there to answer for his conduct.” (Id.
at pp. 547, 558 [internal
quotations and citation omitted].) 
As to the first element of the specific jurisdiction analysis, Plaintiffs
asserts that “[h]ere, evidence shows that Defendants, as a collective and RICO
conspiracy, targeted their conduct directly at California, they communicated
directly with Plaintiffs and had internet interactions as to each distributor’s
website owned and operated by a California resident, and recruitment of the
illegal enterprise was largely based on a California audience. Defendants’
conduct also had a California focus; to sign up as many persons possible for
this business scheme.” (Opp’n at p. 4:3-7.) But Plaintiffs do not appear to
provide any evidence to support such assertions. “On
a challenge to personal jurisdiction by a motion to quash, the plaintiff has
the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the evidence, the factual
bases justifying the exercise of jurisdiction. The plaintiff must come forward with affidavits and other
competent evidence to carry this burden and cannot simply rely on allegations
in an unverified complaint.” (ViaView, Inc. v.
Retzlaff (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 198,
209-210 [internal citation omitted].)[3] In addition, the Estate notes
that “jurisdiction
over an employee does not automatically follow from jurisdiction over the
corporation which employs him; nor does jurisdiction over a parent corporation
automatically establish jurisdiction over a wholly owned subsidiary. Each
defendant’s contacts with the forum State must be assessed individually.” (Keeton
v. Hustler Magazine, Inc. (1984)
465 U.S. 770, 781, fn. 13 [internal citations omitted].) 
Plaintiffs also assert that “the arbitration from which this action
directly arises was in the California division of AAA.” (Opp’n at p. 4:7-8,
emphasis omitted.) Plaintiffs’ counsel asserts in his supporting declaration
that “[a] true and correct copy of the one count complaint in this action is
attached hereto as Ex. 1. The one-count claim is predicated on acts and
occurrences that took place in California. Specifically, the Complaint seeks
relief by way of a bench trial determining that the failure to pay fees in
arbitration constitutes a waiver of arbitration. The Plaintiffs commenced
arbitration proceedings in the California division of AAA. Attached as Ex. 2 is
a true and correct copy of the Arbitration Demand reflecting Plaintiffs’ chosen
venue, in California.” (Lindemann Decl., ¶ 2.) The Court notes that the demand
attached as Exhibit 2 to Plaintiffs’ counsel’s declaration alleges, inter
alia, that “[t]he purported agreement purportedly at issue in this case as
to some of Claimants, references Greensboro, North Carolina as the locale to
preside over arbitration. However, Claimants dispute this venue because they
are California residents, and California franchise agreement law and California
labor law prohibits enforcement of venue provisions out of state of the
franchisee and the employee as pertaining to California residents. Thus, the
appropriate venue for this Case is California.” (Lindemann Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. 2, ¶
9.) 
The Estate counters that “the only relevant inquiry on a motion to
quash for lack of personal jurisdiction is on the forum activities of the
defendant, not the plaintiff. Unilateral activity of the plaintiff (or a third
party) does not satisfy the requirement of contact with the forum state…Here,
Plaintiffs unilaterally chose to bring the Individual Arbitration Demands, not
the Estate…” (Reply at p. 2:9-14.) Indeed, in Hanson v. Denckla (1958) 357 U.S. 235, 253, cited by the Estate, the United
States Supreme Court noted that “[t]he
unilateral activity of those who claim some relationship with a nonresident
defendant cannot satisfy the requirement of contact with the forum State. The
application of that rule will vary with the quality and nature of the defendant’s
activity, but it is essential in each case that there be some act by which the
defendant purposefully avails itself of the privilege of conducting activities
within the forum State, thus invoking the benefits and protections of its laws.”

In addition, in T.A.W. Performance, LLC v. Brembo, S.p.A. (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th
632, 637, “Plaintiff T.A.W. Performance, LLC (TAW), appeal[ed] from the trial court’s
(1) grant of defendant Brembo, S.p.A.’s (Brembo) motion to quash service of the
summons for lack of personal jurisdiction; and (2) denial of TAW’s motion for
reconsideration.” The Court of Appeal affirmed. The T.A.W. Performance Court noted that “[a]s our high
court has admonished, we do not look at TAW’s contacts with California, but
instead limit our analysis to an evaluation of Brembo’s contacts with the
state. Even assuming title to the
goods passed to TAW in California, we fail to see how that circumstance
demonstrates that Brembo purposefully availed itself of the benefits and
protections of the laws of California. Simply put, TAW’s unilateral resale of
Brembo’s products in California is not sufficient to demonstrate that Brembo
purposefully availed itself of the privilege of conducting business in
California.” (Id. at p. 645, citing Hanson v. Denckla, supra,
357 U.S. at p. 253.) 
The Estate also asserts that “the
evidence does not support Plaintiffs’ unsupported proclamation that filing of
the Individual Arbitration Demands somehow constituted commencement of
arbitration proceedings in California.” (Reply at p. 5:9-11, emphasis omitted.)
As set forth above, the Estate’s counsels states that “on May 9, 2022,
Plaintiffs’ counsel purported to file Four Individual Arbitration Demands under
AAA’s Employment Arbitration Rules, one each on behalf of Yang, Lan, Lu and
Liu, (collectively attached hereto as Exhibit 8).” (Steinberg Decl., ¶ 13, Ex.
8.) The Estate notes that the subject demands (attached as Exhibit 8 to the
Steinberg Declaration) state, inter alia, “Hearing locale is to be
determined. Purported terms contemplate Greensboro, North Carolina but claimant
contends that provision is unenforceable under state law.” (Steinberg Decl., ¶
13, Ex. 8.) This point is raised in the Estate’s
motion (Mot. at p. 13:2-7), and does not appear to be addressed by Plaintiffs. 
Plaintiffs also do not appear to address the
Estate’s counsel’s statement that “[t]here was never an arbitrator
appointed in response to the Four Individual Arbitration Demands, and there
were no hearings held on the matter anywhere.” (Steinberg Decl., ¶ 13.) In
addition, Exhibit 1 to Plaintiffs’ counsel’s declaration is a “copy of the one
count complaint in this action.” (Lindemann Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. 1.) As noted by the
Estate, the Complaint attaches as “Appendix A” letters from
the American Arbitration Association “Employment Filing Team” with the address “1101 Laurel Oak Road Voorhees, NJ
08043 on the letterhead. (Lindemann Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. 1, Appendix A, emphasis
added.) 
As to the second element of the specific jurisdiction analysis,
Plaintiffs assert that “[t]he undisputed evidence demonstrates that there is an
‘adequate link’ between Plaintiffs’ one claim in this case and Defendants
contact with California. That is so in two respects. First, Defendants were
subject to a California arbitration before AAA, and Defendants’ failure to pay
fees in accordance with that California venued arbitration. Second, Defendants
perpetuated unfair competition, endless chain, and labor violations in
California as to California residents. Thus, the second element is satisfied.”
(Opp’n at p. 4:17-22.) But as discussed above, Plaintiffs do not appear to provide
evidence showing that defendants were purportedly “subject to a California
arbitration before AAA.” (Opp’n at p. 4:19-20.) In addition, Plaintiffs do not
provide any evidence concerning defendants’ purported “unfair competition,
endless chain, and labor violations in California as to California residents.”
(Opp’n at p. 4:21-22.) 
            Based on the foregoing, the Court
does not find that Plaintiffs have met their burden of demonstrating that the
Estate “has purposefully availed [itself] of forum
benefits,” or that the “controversy [giving rise to the present lawsuit] is
related to or arises out of [the] [Estate’s] contacts with the forum.” (Jacqueline B. v.
Rawls Law Group, P.C., supra,
68 Cal.App.5th at p. 253 [internal quotations omitted].) Thus, the
Court need not consider whether “the assertion of personal
jurisdiction would comport with fair play and substantial justice.” (Ibid.) As discussed, “[t]he plaintiff
asking the forum state to exert jurisdiction over the out-of-state defendant
bears the initial burden of establishing the first two elements by a
preponderance of the evidence, and if the plaintiff does so, the out-of-state
defendant then bears the burden of convincing the court why the exertion of
personal jurisdiction would not comport
with fair play and substantial justice.” (Ibid.
[internal emphasis omitted].) 
Conclusion 
Based on the foregoing, the Court grants the Estate’s motion for an
order quashing service of summons and dismissing the claims against the Estate. 
 The
Estate shall give notice of this ruling.  
 
DATED:  December 15, 2023                        ________________________________
Hon. Rolf M. Treu
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 
 


