  Case Number:  22STCV15366    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 50
 







BRENT EVANS, et al.,  
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
SOPHIA JIN, et al.,  
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV15366




Hearing Date:


December 15, 2023




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




TENTATIVE RULING RE: 
MOTION FOR ORDER COMPELLING RESPONSES TO
  DEMAND FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET ONE (re: BRENT EVANS); 
MOTION FOR ORDER COMPELLING RESPONSES TO
  DEMAND FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET ONE (re: STYLE SQUARED, LLC); 
MOTION FOR ORDER COMPELLING RESPONSES TO
  FIRST SET OF JUDICIAL COUNCIL FORM INTERROGATORIES; 
MOTION FOR ORDER COMPELLING RESPONSES TO
  FIRST SET OF JUDICIAL COUNCIL FORM INTERROGATORIES (STYLE SQUARED, LLC)



 
Background
Plaintiffs
Brent Evans (“Evans”) and Style Squared, LLC (“Style Squared”) (jointly,
“Plaintiffs”) filed this action on May 9, 2022 against Defendants Sophia Jin
and Colorish, LLC dba Indigo Rose. 
Plaintiffs
filed the operative First Amended Complaint on April 3, 2023, alleging causes
of action for (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing, (3) breach of contract, and (4) breach of implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing. 
On
June 2, 2023, Colorish, LLC (“Colorish”) served Requests for Production, Set
One and Form Interrogatories-General, Set One on Evans. (Bell Decls., ¶ 2, Exs.
1-2.) Colorish states that the due date for the responses was July 5, 2023.
(Bell Decls., ¶ 3.) As of the filing of Colorish’s counsel’s declarations in
support of the motions pertaining to these requests, Colorish’s counsel had not
received any responses to the Requests for Production, Set One or the Form
Interrogatories-General, Set One served on Evans. (Bell Decls., ¶ 5.) 
In
addition, on June 2, 2023, Colorish served Requests for Production, Set One and
Form Interrogatories-General, Set One on Style Squared. (Bell Decls., ¶ 2, Exs.
1-2.) Colorish states that the due date for the responses was July 5, 2023.
(Bell Decls., ¶ 3.) As of the filing of Colorish’s counsel’s declarations in
support of the motions pertaining to these requests, Colorish’s counsel had not
received any responses to the Requests for Production, Set One or the Form
Interrogatories-General, Set One served on Style Squared. (Bell Decls., ¶ 5.) 
On
November 15, 2023, an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”) was
held in this matter. The Court’s November 15, 2023 minute order provides, inter
alia, “[i]n open court, the Informal Discovery Conference is held. The
discovery issues were not resolved. Defendant’s Motions to Compel Responses
previously continued per minute order of September 1, 2023 and Defendant’s
Motions to Compel Form Interrogatories previously continued per minute order of
August 16, 2023 are scheduled as follows:…Hearing on Motion to Compel Discovery
(not ‘Further Discovery’) (Production) reservation #724485505185 is scheduled
for 12/15/23 at 10:00 AM in Department 50 at Stanley Mosk Courthouse. Hearing
on Motion to Compel (Form Interrogatories reservation #998329621278 is
scheduled for 12/15/23 at 10:00 AM in Department 50 at Stanley Mosk
Courthouse.” 
Colorish
now moves for orders (1) compelling responses to Colorish’s
First Set of Requests for Production to Evans, served on June 2, 2023, without
objection; (2) compelling Evans to respond to Colorish’s first set of
Judicial Council Form Interrogatories, served on him on June 2, 2023, without
objection; (3) compelling responses to Colorish’s First Set of
Requests for Production to Style Squared served on June 2, 2023, without
objection; and (4) 
compelling
Style Squared to respond to Colorish’s first set of Judicial Council Form
Interrogatories, served on Style Squared on June 2, 2023, without objection.
Colorish seeks monetary sanctions in connection with each of the motions. The
motions are unopposed.  
Discussion
Pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 2031.300, subdivision (b), “[i]f a party
to whom a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed
fails to serve a timely response to it…(b) The
party making the demand may move for an order compelling response to the
demand.” In addition, “[i]f a party to whom a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling
is directed fails to serve a timely response to it…(a) The party to whom
the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed waives any
objection to the demand, including one based on privilege or on the protection
for work product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section
2018.010).” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a).)  
Pursuant
to Code of Civil
Procedure section 2030.290, subdivision (b), “[i]f a party to whom
interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the following
rules apply:…(b) The
party propounding the interrogatories may move for an order compelling response
to the interrogatories.” In addition, “[i]f a party to whom interrogatories are directed
fails to serve a timely response…(a) The party to whom
the interrogatories are directed waives any right to exercise the option to
produce writings under Section 2030.230, as well as
any objection to the interrogatories, including one based on privilege or on
the protection for work product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 2018.010).” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.290, subd. (a).)  
The Court
finds that the evidence demonstrates that Evans and Style Squared did not timely
serve responses to the discovery
requests at
issue. As set forth above, the instant motions are unopposed. Thus, Evans and
Style Squared have not provided any evidence demonstrating that they responded
to the subject discovery requests. 
Therefore,
the Court finds that Colorish is entitled to an order compelling responses, without objections, to Colorish’s Requests for
Production, Set One and Form Interrogatories-General, Set One served on Evans.
In addition, the Court
finds that Colorish is entitled to an order compelling responses, without objections, to Colorish’s Requests for
Production, Set One and Form Interrogatories-General, Set One served on Style Squared. 
Lastly, Colorish
requests monetary sanctions against Evans and his counsel, jointly and
severally, in connection with both motions pertaining to Evans. In addition, Colorish
requests monetary sanctions against Style Squared and its counsel, jointly and
severally, in connection with both motions pertaining to Style Squared. 
Pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 2031.300,
subdivision (c), “[e]xcept as provided in subdivision (d), the court shall
impose a monetary sanction…against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Emphasis added.) Similarly, pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure
section 2030.290,
subdivision (c), “[t]he court shall
impose a monetary sanction…against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (Emphasis added.) 
Because the instant motions are unopposed,
the Court denies Colorish’s requests for sanctions in connection with each of
the motions. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Colorish’s
motions are granted. 
The Court orders Evans to
serve complete verified responses, without objections, to Colorish’s Requests for Production, Set One and Form
Interrogatories-General, Set One within 30 days of notice of this order. 
The Court orders Style
Squared to serve complete verified responses, without objections, to Colorish’s Requests for Production, Set One and Form
Interrogatories-General, Set One within 30 days of notice of this order. 
Colorish’s requests for
monetary sanctions are denied. 
Colorish is ordered to give notice of this order. 
 
DATED:  December 15, 2023                        ________________________________
Hon. Rolf M. Treu
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 