 Case Number:  23STCV19931    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  73 10/17/24
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding
 
GOLDBERG & GAGE, et al. v. GOLDBERG,
et al. (23STCV19931)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiffs/opposing party: Richard Robins (Parker Milliken Clark O’Hara &
Samuelian)
Counsel for
Defendants/moving party:  Mark Drooks (Bird
Marella Rhow Lincenberg Drooks & Nessim LLP)
 
SPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKE PURSuANT TO §
CCP 425.16 (filed on 9/09/24 by Defendants Thompson
Coburn LLP and Richard Reinis)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendants Thompson Coburn LLP and Richard Reinis’s special motion to strike is GRANTED. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On
August 18, 2023, Plaintiffs Goldberg & Gage, Attorneys at Law, a California general
partnership (“G&G”); Bradley C. Gage, an individual (“Gage”); and Bradley
C. Gage, A Professional Law Corporation, a California professional corporation,
filed this action against Defendants Margaret
E. Goldberg (“Margaret”) and Does 1-100.
 
On July 24, 2024, Plaintiffs filed Amendments to the Complaint
naming Thompson Coburn LLP (“Thompson Coburn”) and Richard G. Reinis (“Reinis”)
as Doe Defendants. 
 
The
Complaint alleges a single cause of action for Violation of California Penal Code § 502.
 
A.     Allegations
in the Complaint
 
The Complaint alleges the following:
 
Margaret is the widow of Terry Goldberg, who was at one time a
G&G partner. Gage
and Terry formed G&G in 1991 and practiced law together for several
decades. On
February 19, 2023, Terry died. Margaret
claims that she is entitled to a share of G&G’s fees under the G&G
partnership agreement. 
 
On or about April 11, 2023, Reinis, an attorney with the law firm
Thompson Coburn LLP, transmitted a letter to Gage stating that he had been
engaged by Margaret to review the G&G partnership agreement and provide
Margaret with a clear understanding of her rights and duties as a partner’s
widow. 
 
Plaintiffs are informed and believe, and thereon allege, that on
May 10, 2023, Margaret used Terry’s G&G email credentials to, without the
permission of G&G, knowingly access G&G’s privileged and confidential
materials and take, copy and transmit such materials to the email account of
her stepson, Todd Goldberg (“Todd”) and to her own personal email accounts; and
sought to transmit such materials to Reinis. Plaintiffs are informed and believe, and thereon allege, that on
May 11, 2023 and June 8, 2023, Margaret again used Terry’s G&G email
credentials to, without the permission of G&G, knowingly access G&G’s
privileged and confidential materials and take, copy, and transmit such
materials to Todd’s email account, her own personal email accounts, and Reinis
at his usual Thompson Coburn email account. 
 
On or about June 27, 2023, Reinis and his Thompson Coburn law
partner, Kacey R. Riccomini (“Riccomini”), filed a Complaint (“Goldberg
Complaint”) against Plaintiffs in the Los Angeles Superior Court on behalf of
Margaret and affiliated parties, thereby initiating certain litigation
captioned Goldberg et al. v. Gage et al., Case No. 23STCV14985 (“Goldberg
Action”). The Goldberg Complaint employs and disseminates information that
Plaintiffs are informed and believe, and thereon allege, was obtained by and
through the Unauthorized Accesses, including unredacted confidential G&G
client matter information.
 
On July 10, 2023, Plaintiffs discovered the May 10, 2023, May 11,
2023, and June 8, 2023 Unauthorized Accesses. On July 11, 2023, Plaintiffs
filed and/or caused a report regarding such Unauthorized Accesses to be filed
with local law enforcement. Plaintiffs are informed and believe that the law
enforcement investigation of the Unauthorized Accesses remains ongoing.
 
B.     The Instant
Motion
 
On September 9, 2024, Defendants Thompson Coburn and Reinis
(collectively “Thompson Coburn Defendants”) filed the instant special motion to
strike, arguing:
·      
First
Prong – Protected Activity
o  
Any
written or oral statement made in a judicial proceeding is protected conduct.
(Code of Civ. Pro. 425 § (e)(1).)  Under the plain language of section 425.16,
subdivisions (e)(1) and (2), as well as the case law interpreting those
provisions, all communicative acts performed by attorneys as part of their
representation of a client in a judicial proceeding or other petitioning
context are per se protected as petitioning activity by the anti-SLAPP
statute.” Optional Capital, Inc. v. Akin Gump Strauss, Hauer
& Feld LLP, 18 Cal.App.5th 95, 113 (2017).
o  
Here,
the claim at issue arises from protected prelitigation communications. 
§ 
Any
advice that the Thompson Coburn Defendants may have given to Mrs. Goldberg that
relates to her accessing her late husband’s email account: (1) concerned the
subject of the dispute; and (2) was in good faith anticipation of litigation.
§ 
Even
if Mrs. Goldberg’s alleged access of her late husband’s email account was
illegal
and even if Reinis is alleged to have advised her she could do so, the Thompson
Coburn Defendants are not alleged to have done anything “outside the scope of
normal, routine legal services” and their actions therefore are protected by
CCP § 425.16.
·       Second Prong – Plaintiffs cannot
prevail on the Complaint’s causes of action
o  
The Litigation Privilege Bars
Plaintiffs’ Claim Against Thompson Coburn Defendants
§  Attorneys representing actual or
potential litigants are authorized “participants” in a judicial proceeding and
their legal advice concerning the dispute is protected by the litigation
privilege.
o  
Plaintiffs
Cannot Establish Probability of Success Because the Thompson Coburn Defendants
Were Mrs. Goldberg’s Agents.
o  
To
The Extent That Plaintiffs’ Claim Is Not Otherwise Barred, It Should Be
Dismissed on Due Process Grounds.
 
Plaintiffs filed an opposition, arguing: 
·       Step One: Plaintiffs’ Claim Does Not Arise From Protected
Conduct
o  
Defendants’ conduct was illegal as a
matter of law
§ 
“Causing” unauthorized access to
computerized data is illegal under Penal Code section 502. As set forth in the
Gage Declaration and the Margaret Declaration, this is exactly what Defendants
did; they caused the unauthorized access and use by Margaret. (Gage Decl. at
¶16-23, Exs. 8-14; Margaret Decl. at ¶4.) By Margaret’s own admission, she
would not have accessed or used G&G Computers “but for Mr. Reinis’
instructions.” (Margaret Decl. at ¶4.)
o  
Plaintiffs’ claim for violation of
Penal Code section 502 does not arise from protected conduct
§ 
Defendants were not offering legal
advice regarding her rights under the Partnership Agreement, but instead
causing her to take measures in violation of CDAFA.
·       Step Two: Plaintiffs Have Demonstrated a Probability of
Prevailing on the Claim
o  
Plaintiffs have set forth a prima
facie case for defendants’ violation of Penal Code section 502
§ 
As set forth in the Margaret
Declaration and the Todd Declaration, Reinis “expressly instructed [Margaret]
to obtain from Terry’s [G&G] email account” various privileged and
confidential client records and Margaret “would not have done so but for Mr.
Reinis’ instructions.” (Margaret Decl. at ¶ 4; Todd Decl. at ¶ 4.) Defendants
thus caused the unlawful access and use.
o  
The litigation privilege does not
apply under the facts of this case
§ 
The evidence demonstrates that
Defendants committed an independent illegal act by knowingly causing the access
and use of G&G Computers without permission. Such action constitutes noncommunicative
criminal conduct and is beyond the protection of the litigation privilege.
·       Defendants contend that Plaintiffs cannot prevail on a
conspiracy theory for failure to comply with the procedural requirements of
Civil Code section 1714.10, subdivision (a). While this statutory provision
requires a plaintiff to obtain a pre-filing order before bringing a claim for
conspiring with a client, such is not a bar to Plaintiffs’ claim here.
Preliminarily, Plaintiffs’ claim is not dependent on a conspiracy; Defendants
are alleged to have independently committed an illegal act and this section is
therefore not applicable. Further, even if it was applicable, there is no
requirement of a pre-filing order in this case.
·       Defendants’ due process argument is without merit
o  
Defendants’ contention that this
action should be dismissed because they cannot meaningfully defend themselves
without disclosing attorney-client communications is without merit. (Motion at
21:11-20.) Here, Margaret’s Declaration has already disclosed her privileged
communications and she has already waived the privilege. (Margaret Decl. at
¶¶3-5, Ex. A.) Thus, Defendants are not deprived of the opportunity to
meaningfully defend themselves.
·      
The hearing date on Defendants’
motion is untimely and the motion should be denied
 
The Thompson
Coburn Defendants filed a reply, arguing:
·      
Plaintiffs have failed to show that their claims do not arise from
protected activity under the anti-SLAPP statute. The narrow “criminal conduct”
exception applies only where the defendant concedes the illegality of his
conduct or the illegality is conclusively established by the evidence. Here,
Defendants expressly deny that their conduct was illegal and the evidence does
not support – much less conclusively establish – any illegality.
·      
Communications intended to avoid
litigation are equally protected by the statute.
·      
A lawyer cannot “instruct” or “cause” his
client to do something; he can only give advice. Moreover, Plaintiffs’ claim is
barred by the litigation privilege.
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
C.     Legal
Standard 
 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 425.16 permits the court to strike causes of action arising from an act
in furtherance of the defendant’s right of free speech or petition unless the
plaintiff establishes that there is a probability that the plaintiff will
prevail on the claim.  
 
In assessing a defendant’s
section 425.16 special motion to strike, the court must engage in a two-step
process.¿ (Shekhter v. Financial Indem. Co. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 141,
150.)¿ First, the court must decide whether the defendant has met the threshold
burden of showing that the plaintiff’s cause of action arises from the
defendant’s constitutional rights of free speech or petition for redress of
grievances.  (Id.)  This burden may be met by showing the act
which forms the basis for the plaintiff's cause of action was an act that falls
within one of the four categories of conduct set forth in 425.16, subdivision
(e).¿  
 
If the defendant meets his
initial burden and establishes that the anti-SLAPP statute applies, the burden
then shifts to the plaintiff to demonstrate a probability that the plaintiff
will prevail on the claim.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b); Equilon
Enters. LLC v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 67 (Equilon.) 
“[T]he plaintiff must demonstrate that the complaint is both legally sufficient
and supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of facts to sustain a
favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by the plaintiff is
credited.”  (Matson v. Dvorak (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 539, 548 (Matson)
(internal quotations omitted).)   
¿ 
In making its
determination of the anti-SLAPP motion, the court shall consider the pleadings,
and supporting and opposing affidavits stating the facts upon which the
liability or defense is based.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd.
(b)(2).)¿
Conversely, if the evidence relied upon cannot be admitted at trial,
because it is categorically barred or undisputed factual circumstances show
inadmissibility, the court may not consider it in the face of an
objection.  If an evidentiary objection is made, the plaintiff may attempt
to cure the asserted defect or demonstrate the defect is curable.”  (Sweetwater
Union High School Dist. v. Gilbane Building Co. (2019) 6 Cal.5th 931, 949.) 
 
The court properly
considers the evidentiary submissions of both the plaintiff and the defendant,
but it may not weigh the credibility or comparative strength of the evidence
and must instead simply determine whether the plaintiff's evidence would, if believed
by the trier of fact, be sufficient to result in a judgment for
plaintiff.  (McGarry v. Univ. of San Diego (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th
97, 10809.)  The court “accepts as true the evidence favorable to the
plaintiff and evaluates the defendant’s evidence only to determine if it has
defeated that submitted by the plaintiff as a matter of law.”¿ (Flatley v.
Mauro (2006) 39 Cal.4th 299, 326.)¿ Further, whether or not the evidence is
in conflict in the context of a motion to strike under the antiSLAPP statute,
if the plaintiff has presented a sufficient pleading and has presented evidence
showing that a prima facie case will be established at trial, the plaintiff is
entitled to proceed.  (Moore v. Shaw (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 182,
193.)  Only a minimal showing of merit is required.  (Robinzine v.
Vicory (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 1416, 1421.) 
 
D.     Evidentiary
Objections
 
The Court rules on the Thompson
Coburn Defendants objections to Plaintiffs’ evidence in support of their opposition as
follows:
 
Margaret Goldberg Declaration
·      
Objection No. 1: Overruled
·      
Objection Nos. 2-4: Sustained (Sham declaration, lack of
authenticity) 
 
Todd Goldberg Declaration
·      
Objections Nos. 1-2: Overruled. 
 
E.     Procedural
Issues
 
Plaintiffs
argue that as a procedural matter, the Thompson
Coburn Defendants’ motion should be denied because the hearing date is
untimely.
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 425.16, subdivision (f), provides in relevant part: “The
[anti-SLAPP] motion shall be scheduled by the clerk of the court for a hearing
not more than 30 days after the service of the motion unless the docket
conditions of the court require a later hearing.” The burden is on the
defendant to show that the docket condition required a later hearing. (Barak
v. Quisenberry Law Firm (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 654, 659-660.)
 
Here, the
Motion was served on September 9, 2024. Thus, the hearing should have been
scheduled on or before October 9, 2024, unless the docket conditions of the
court required a later hearing. 
 
Counsel for the Thompson
Coburn Defendants’ submitted a declaration stating, “At the time of filing this
motion, the earliest available hearing date for a special motion to strike
based on the Court’s Reservation System and defendants’ counsel’s availability
is October 17, 2024.” (Mayer Decl., ¶ 2.)
 
While
Plaintiffs argue that Defendants’ counsel does not demonstrate that the later
hearing date was solely the result of the court’s docket condition, the Court
finds Defendants’ counsel’s declaration sufficient here. The Court declines to
deny the Motion on this basis.
 
F.      First Prong –
Cause of Action Arising from Protected Activity 
CCP §
425.16(e) states:  “As used in this section, ‘act in furtherance of a
person’s right of petition or free speech under the United States or California
Constitution in connection with a public issue’ includes:  (1) any written
or oral statement or writing made before a legislative, executive, or judicial
proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (2) any written
or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under
consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any
other official proceeding authorized by law, (3) any written or oral statement
or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum in connection
with an issue of public interest, or (4) any other conduct in furtherance of
the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the constitutional
right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of public
interest.”  “In the anti-SLAPP context, the critical point is whether the
plaintiff's cause of action itself was based on an act in furtherance of
the defendant's right of petition or free speech.” (City of Cotati v.
Cashman (2002) 29 Cal.4th 69, 78.) “The anti-SLAPP's statute’s
definitional focuses is not the form of the plaintiff’s cause of action but,
rather, the defendant’s activity that gives rise to his or her asserted
liability -- and whether that activity constitutes protected speech or
petitioning.” (Navellier v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 92.)
In Baral
v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, the court held that an
anti-SLAPP motion may be utilized to strike specific allegations of protected
activity without eliminating the entire cause of action or primary right. 
“By referring to a ‘cause of action against a person arising from any act
of that person in furtherance of’ the protected rights of petition and speech,
the Legislature indicated that particular alleged acts giving rise to a
claim for relief may be the object of an anti-SLAPP motion. (§ 425.16(b)(1),
italics added.) Thus, in cases involving allegations of both protected and
unprotected activity, the plaintiff is required to establish a probability of
prevailing on any claim for relief based on allegations of protected
activity.” (Id. at 395.)
Here,
Plaintiffs’ cause of action for Violation
of California Penal Code § 502 alleged against the Thompson
Coburn Defendants is premised
on activities
stemming from their legal representation of Defendant Margaret in connection
with the dispute between the Plaintiffs and Margaret which resulted in the
filing of the instant action.  The alleged acts and/or omissions involve
written or oral statements or writings made in anticipation of a judicial
proceeding.  Therefore, the alleged conduct is an act in furtherance of the
Thompson Coburn Defendants right of
petition or free speech.  CCP § 425.16(c); see Rusheen v. Cohen
(2006) 37 Cal.4th 1048, 1056; see also Ludwig v. Superior Court
(1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 8, 17-19.  A cause of action arising from
the Thompson Coburn Defendant’s litigation
activity may be the subject of a special motion to strike.  See Briggs
v. Eden Council for Hope & Opportunity (1999) 19 Cal.4th
1106, 1115-16.  “[C]ourts considering the question have concluded that
“[j]ust as communications preparatory to or in anticipation of the bringing of
an action or other official proceeding are within the protection of the
litigation privilege of Civil Code section 47, subdivision (b) [citation], . .
. such statements are equally entitled to the benefits of section
425.16.”  Id. at 1115. 
Plaintiffs
argue that they have alleged facts demonstrating that the Thompson Coburn
Defendant’s conduct, in causing the access and use of G&G Computers, was
illegal as a matter of law. However, these acts are also protected under the
anti-SLAPP statute.  “Under the plain language of section 425.16,
subdivision (e)(1) and (2), as well as the case law interpreting those
provisions, all communicative acts performed by attorneys as part of their
representation of a client in a judicial proceeding or other petitioning
context are per se protected as petitioning activity by the anti-SLAPP
statute.” (Contreras v. Dowling (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 394, 408–409.) Plaintiffs
cannot plead around the protection by alleging that the attorneys engaged in
unlawful or unethical conduct. The Thompson Coburn Defendants do not
concede their conduct was illegal, and its illegality has not been
“conclusively established by the evidence presented in connection with the
motion to strike.” (Soukup v. Law Offices of Herbert Hafif (2006)
39 Cal.4th 260, 285.)
Contreras is instructive.  In Contreras, the tenant sued her
landlords for tenant harassment, and also named the landlords’ attorneys based
on allegations that they aided and abetted the harassment by encouraging
unlawful entries, and concealing evidence.  Plaintiff alleged that this
conduct was illegal.  The Court of Appeal held that the conduct alleged
against the attorneys arose from their role as the attorneys for their
client.  The Court specifically held that such allegations cannot remove
the conduct from the protection afforded by the anti-SLAPP statute. “[C]onduct
that would otherwise come within the scope of the anti-SLAPP statute does not
lose its coverage ... simply because it is alleged to have been unlawful
or unethical.” (Contreras v. Dowling (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 394, 414.)
Accordingly, the Court finds that the Thompson Coburn Defendants have
met their burden to establish that Plaintiffs’ claim against them arises out of
protected activity. The burden shifts to Plaintiffs.
 
G.    Second Prong
– Probability of Prevailing on Causes of Action
 
Once a defendant demonstrates that protected conduct is at
issue, the plaintiff must show that the complaint is both legally sufficient
and supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of facts to sustain a
favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by the plaintiff is
credited.  (Navellier v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 88-89.) “The court
does not weigh evidence or resolve conflicting factual claims. Its inquiry is
limited to whether the plaintiff has stated a legally sufficient claim and made
a prima facie factual showing sufficient to sustain a favorable judgment.” (Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 384.)
Accordingly, as explained in Baral, the second step of the analysis
under section 425.16 requires a
plaintiff to separately establish a probability of prevailing on each distinct
claim for relief: “[T]he plaintiff must make the requisite showing as to each
challenged claim that is based on allegations of protected activity.” (Id.
at p. 392.)
 
a.     Litigation
Privilege
 
The Thompson Coburn Defendants contend that
Plaintiffs cannot prevail on their cause of action alleged against them because
they are barred by the litigation privilege. The Court agrees. 
 
Civil Code section 47(b) provides an absolute privilege for
communications made in any legislative proceeding, in any judicial proceeding,
in any other official proceeding authorized by law, or in the initiation or
course of any other proceeding authorized by law. (See Civ. Code, § 47(b); Hagberg
v. California Federal Bank FSB (2004) 32 Cal.4th 350, 360.) “‘The usual
formulation is that the privilege applies to any communication (1) made in
judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings; (2) by litigants or other participants
authorized by law; (3) to achieve the objects of the litigation; and (4) that
[has] some connection or logical relation to the action.’” (Kenne v. Stennis
(2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 953, 964 (quoting Silberg v. Anderson (1990) 50
Cal.3d 205, 212).) The privilege “protects any statements or writings that have
‘some relation’ to a lawsuit,” meaning that “communications made both during
and in anticipation of litigation are covered by the statute.” (Id. at
965 (quoting Rubin v. Green (1993) 4 Cal.4th 1187, 1193-94).) “‘The
privilege is broadly applied to protect most publications within lawsuits
provided there is some connection between the lawsuit and the publication.’” (Obos
v. Scripps Psychological Associates, Inc. (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 103, 108
(quoting Adams v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.App.4th 521, 529).) “‘Any
doubt as to whether the privilege applies is resolved in favor of applying it.’”
(Id. (emphasis in original).) Section 47(b) bars all tort causes of
action except malicious prosecution. (See Hagberg, supra, 32 Cal.4th at
360.)
 
Plaintiffs allege that the Thompson Coburn Defendants instructed
Margaret to obtain from Terry’s G&G email account various privileged and
confidential client records and that Margaret would not have done so but for
Reinis’ instructions.
 
Therefore, Plaintiffs’ claim is premised on communicative conduct
either in, directly related to, or in anticipation of the instant action. At
the time of the alleged illegal access of documents, there was already a
dispute between the parties as to whether Plaintiffs would produce the
accounting records. Since this communicative conduct is related to a judicial
proceeding, it is therefore privileged under the litigation privilege. As the
Thompson Coburn Defendants’ assert, the litigation privilege
extends to attorney’s advice, even if it constitutes a violation of the Penal
Code. (Contreras, 5 Cal.App.5th at 415–416; Kimmel v. Goland  (1990)  51 Cal.3d 202, 208.) The cases that Plaintiffs
cite to are inapposite here and relate to noncommunicative tortious conduct,
such as recording a call. Therefore, Plaintiffs’ claims barred by the
litigation privilege.
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs cannot show a
likelihood of prevailing on their causes of action against the Thompson Coburn Defendants because they
are predicated on an act shielded by the litigation privilege.  Because
the Court concludes the causes of action are barred by litigation privilege,
the Court does not consider other grounds raised by Thompson Coburn
Defendants for granting the special motion to
strike.  
 
III. DISPOSITION
 
Defendants Thompson Coburn LLP and Richard Reinis’s special motion to strike is GRANTED.