  Case Number:  23CHCV00244    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2023    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 11/6/23
Case #23CHCV00244
 
DEMURRER &
MOTION  TO STRIKE 
TO THE 
ORIGINAL
COMPLAINT
 
Demurrer & Motion to Strike filed on 9/6/23.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants Canoga Park Fitness, LLC; Alex
Sotolango and Terry Ibarra
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Morteza Tahmasebi
NOTICE: ok
 
Demurrer is to the 6th, 7th, 8th
and 9th causes of action:
            1.  Unpaid Overtime
Wages
            2. 
Failure to Provide Meal and Rest Periods
            3. 
Failure to Provide Accurate Itemized Wage Statements
            4. 
Failure to Pay Wages on Termination
            5. 
Unfair Business Practices Under the Unfair Competition Act
            6.  Discrimination in Violation of the California
Fair Employment and Housing Act
            7. 
Retaliation
            8. 
Wrongful Termination
            9. 
Negligent Hiring and Supervision

 
RELIEF REQUESTED IN MOTION TO STRIKE: An order
striking allegations regarding and the prayer for punitive damages.  
 
RULING: The demurrer is sustained and the motion
to strike is granted, both with leave to amend. 
Defendants will have 30 days from this hearing date to respond to the
First Amended Complaint filed by Plaintiff on 10/30/23.
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of Plaintiff Morteza Tahmasebi’s
(Plaintiff) employment with Defendant Canoga Park Fitness LLC (Canoga).  Plaintiff alleges that during his employment
Canoga and Defendants Alex Sotolango (Sotolango) and Terry Ibarra (Ibarra)
(collectively, Defendants) subjected him to labor code violations,
discrimination and retaliation. 
Plaintiff also alleges that Defendants were negligent in their hiring
and supervision and wrongfully terminated him. 

 
On 1/30/23, Plaintiff filed this action against
Defendants for: (1) Unpaid Overtime Wages; 
(2) Failure to Provide Meal and Rest Periods; (3) Failure
to Provide Accurate Itemized Wage Statements; (4) Failure to Pay Wages on
Termination; (5) Unfair Business Practices Under the Unfair Competition Act;
(6) Discrimination in Violation of the California Fair Employment and Housing
Act; (7) Retaliation; (8) Wrongful Termination and (9) Negligent Hiring and
Supervision.  The 6th and 7th
causes of action are alleged against all Defendants and the 1st-5th
and 8th and 9th causes of action are alleged against
Canoga and Sotolango.  
During meet and confer efforts, Plaintiff’s counsel
agreed to send Defendants a proposed amended complaint; however, the amended
pleading was never received.  (Gautam
Decl.).  Therefore, on 9/6/23, Defendants
filed and served the instant demurrer to the 6th, 7th, 8th
and 9th causes of action and motion to strike seeking to strike
allegations regarding and the prayer for punitive damages.
 
On 10/30/23, Plaintiff filed late oppositions to the
demurrer and motion to strike and a First Amended Complaint.  On 10/31/23, Defendants filed a reply to the
untimely oppositions.
 
ANALYSIS
 
CCP 472(a) provides: 
 
“A party may amend its pleading
once without leave of the court at any time before the answer, demurrer, or
motion to strike is filed, or after a demurrer or motion to strike is filed
but before the demurrer or motion to strike is heard if the amended pleading is
filed and served no later than the date for filing an opposition to the
demurrer or motion to strike. A party may amend the pleading after the
date for filing an opposition to the demurrer or motion to strike, upon
stipulation by the parties. The time for responding to an amended pleading
shall be computed from the date of service of the amended pleading.”  (emphasis added) 
 
Oppositions to the demurrer and motion to strike were due
on or before 10/24/23, nine court days before the 11/6/23 hearing date.  CCP 1005(b). 
As noted above, the oppositions and First Amended Complaint were not
filed and served until 10/30/23.  As
such, leave is required for the First Amended Complaint.  
 
The reply concedes that the First Amended Complaint
resolves most of the issues addressed in the demurrer and motion to
strike.  However, it argues that the 7th
cause of action in the First Amended Complaint remains defective and requests
that the demurrer to the 7th cause of action be sustained.     
 
The Court finds that the proper procedure is for
Defendants to meet and confer with Plaintiff regarding the claimed defect in
the First Amended Complaint.  CCP
430.41(a).  If the issues cannot be
resolved through the meet and confer process, Defendants should then file a
demurrer to the First Amended Complaint. 
Id.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The demurrer is sustained and the motion to strike is
granted, both with leave to amend.  Since
a First Amended Complaint has already been filed, Defendants have 30 days from
today’s date (11/6/23) to respond to the First Amended Complaint.  
 
 
 