 Case Number:  23STCV24520    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Demurrer to
Second Cause of Action (Negligence) in Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint 
 
Moving Party: Defendant
Gelfand, Rennert, Feldman, LLP 
Resp. Party:    Plaintiff 23 Courtington Trust 
 
 
The Demurrer to second cause of action for
negligence is SUSTAINED, without leave to amend the FAC.
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On October 9,
2023, Plaintiff 23 Courtington Trust filed its Complaint against Defendants
Glenn Caron; Zina Caron; Compass, Inc.; Angelo Fierro; Gelfand, Rennert,
Feldman, LLP; and Michael Stern. The causes of action are for breach of
contract and negligence. 
 
On November
30, 2023, Plaintiff filed its First Amended Complaint (FAC). 
 
On December
21, 2023, by request of Plaintiff, the Clerk’s Office dismissed without
prejudice Defendant Michael Stern from the FAC. 
 
On March 12,
2024, the Court granted the Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement
filed by Defendants Compass California, Inc. and Angelo Fierro. 
 
On March 26, 2024,
Defendant Gelfand, Rennert & Feldman, LLP (“Defendant”) filed its Demurrer
to the Second Cause of Action (Negligence) in Plaintiff’s First Amended
Complaint (“Demurrer”). In support of its Demurrer, Defendant concurrently
filed: (1) Declaration of Lauren J. Fried; and (2) Proposed Order. 
 
On April 8,
2024, Plaintiff filed its Opposition to the Demurrer. 
 
On April 12,
2024, Defendant filed its Reply in support of the Demurrer. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal Standard
 
“The party
against whom a complaint or cross-complaint has been filed may object, by
demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30, to the pleading on any one or
more of” various grounds listed in statute. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10.)
 
“When any ground
for objection to a complaint, cross-complaint, or answer appears on the face
thereof, or from any matter of which the court is required to or may take
judicial notice, the objection on that ground may be taken by a demurrer to the
pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a).)
 
“A demurrer to a
complaint or cross-complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or
cross-complaint or to any of the causes of action stated therein.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.50, subd. (a).)
 
“In reviewing the sufficiency
of a complaint against a general demurrer, we are guided by long-settled rules.
We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. We also consider matters which may be judicially
noticed. Further, we give the complaint a reasonable interpretation,
reading it as a whole and its parts in their context.” (Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal.3d 311, 318, citations and internal quotation marks omitted.)
 
II.      
Discussion
 
Defendant demurs to the second cause of
action for negligence, arguing: (1) that Defendant does not owe a duty to
Plaintiff; (2) that the economic loss rule prevents Plaintiff’s claim against
Defendant; (3) that the application of factors under Biakanja v. Irving (1958)
49 Cal.2d 647 do not show there was a duty here; and (4) that the FAC does not
state what actions Defendant took. (Demurrer, pp. 11:6, 11:17–18, 16:24,
21:10.)
 
In order to
state a claim for negligence, Plaintiff must allege the elements of (1) “the
existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3)
“proximate cause resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC
(2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges, among other things:
(1) that Defendant, as the agents of Defendants Glenn Caron and Zina Caron, had
a duty to exercise ordinary care regarding the delivery of rental funds to
Plaintiff; and (2) that Defendant breached their duty of care when they did not
inspect, investigate, and verify the information contained in certain emails
before forwarding those emails and sending rental funds to diverted accounts.
(FAC, ¶¶ 5, 8, 26–28.)
 
        For the purposes of a
demurrer, the Court must assume the truth of the allegations made in the
pleading. Whether there was actually a duty of care here involves mixed
questions of fact and law that are not appropriate for resolution on a
demurrer. 
 
        However, the economic loss
rule is a different matter.
 
“The rule itself is deceptively easy to state: in general, there is no
recovery in tort for negligently inflicted ‘purely economic losses,’ meaning
financial harm unaccompanied by physical or property damages.” (Sheen v.
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 905, 922, citations omitted.) “Not all tort claims for monetary losses between
contractual parties are barred by the economic loss rule. But such claims are
barred when they arise from — or are not independent of — the parties’
underlying contracts.” (Id. at p. 923, citations omitted.)
 
        Here, the rental funds at
issue were required to be sent pursuant to a lease agreement. Plaintiff does
not make any allegation that involves funds arising outside of the Parties’
lease agreement. Thus, even if Plaintiff’s allegations are correct that
Defendant acted negligently, Defendant can only be liable for damages on the
contract, not for the tort of negligence. 

 
        Plaintiff did not request
leave to amend. 
 
III.     Conclusion
 
The Demurrer to second cause of action for
negligence is SUSTAINED, without leave to amend the FAC.
 
 
 