 Case Number:  22SMCV01410    Hearing Date:   June 26, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Fallieras v.
Subaru of America, Inc, et al., Case No. 22SMCV01410
Hearing date June
26, 2024
Cross-Complainant
Subaru’s Demurrer to DCH Subaru’s Second Amended Cross-Complaint
 
Plaintiff
Fallieras sued defendants Subaru of America, Inc. (SOA) and Thousand Oaks-S,
Inc. dba DCH Subaru of Thousand Oaks (DCH) alleging various Song-Beverly claims
against SOA and negligent repair against DCH only. SOA and DCH cross-complained
against one another. Plaintiff’s claims were settled on 3/13/24. 
 
Dealer DCH cross
complained against SOA, seeking (1) express indemnity; (2) implied indemnity;
(3) equitable indemnity and (4) declaratory relief. SOA’s demurrer to DCH’s
first amended cross-complaint was sustained with leave to amend as to all
causes of action on 1/16/24. DCH filed a second amended cross-complaint (SACC)
on 2/7/24. SOA demurs again. 
 
The only claim
against DCH in the underlying action was for negligent repair. DCH tendered to
SOA, which denied the tender. Via the SACC, DCH seeks indemnification from SOA
for its own alleged negligence in repairing the vehicle. The SACC does not
allege SOA was involved in repairing the vehicle. The SACC contains no new allegations
that SOA is liable (or should be liable) for alleged negligence by DCH for its
allegedly faulty repair of the vehicle or that the alleged problems with the
vehicle were manufacturing or design defects for which SOA might be responsible
under the Song-Beverly theories.
 
DCH’s Request for
Judicial Notice
DCH requests the court
take judicial notice of (a) SOA’s cross-complaint filed November 20, 2023
(Cross-Comp. RJN, Exh. A), and (b) the Notice of Settlement between Fallieras
and SOA filed March 13, 2024 (Cross-Comp. RJN, Exh. B). GRANTED. Evid. Code
§§452-453.
 
Implied Indemnity
Implied
contractual indemnity is not based upon equitable considerations, but on a
contractual relationship between indemnitee and indemnitor from which is
implied an obligation by indemnitor to assume and pay foreseeable damages
assessed against the indemnitee as a result of indemnitor's breach of contract.
Bear Creek Planning Com. v. Title Ins. & Trust Co. (1985) 164
Cal.App.3d 1227, 1239. 
 
In the SACC, DCH
still fails to allege any basis for SOA’s implied contractual indemnity for
DCH’s allegedly negligent repairs on the vehicle. SUSTAINED without leave to
amend.
 
Equitable
Indemnity
“Equitable
indemnity, which requires no contractual relationship, is premised on a joint
legal obligation to another for damages; it is subject to allocation of fault
principles and comparative equitable apportionment of loss.” C.W. Howe
Partners Inc. v. Mooradian (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 688, 700, quotation marks
omitted. “The elements of a cause of action for equitable indemnity are (1) a
showing of fault on the part of the indemnitor and (2) resulting damages to the
indemnitee for which the indemnitor is equitably responsible.” Id. 
 
The same reasoning
applies. DCH now alleges, without a factual basis, that SOA proximately caused
the problems, and DCH has a right to indemnity. SACC, para. 8. The SACC still
fails to allege a basis for equitable indemnity owed by SOA to DCH for DCH’s
allegedly negligent repair to the vehicle. SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
 
Declaratory Relief
“To qualify for
declaratory relief, a party would have to demonstrate its action presented two
essential elements: (1) a proper subject of declaratory relief, and (2) an
actual controversy involving justiciable questions relating to the party’s
rights or obligations.” Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013) 213
Cal.App.4th 872, 909. 
 
SOA argues the
SACC is uncertain as to whether the alleged defects were SOA’s manufacturing
defects (for which SOA might be responsible) or caused by DCH’s (allegedly) negligent
repairs, so SOA’s refusal to accept DCH’s tender demand presents an actual
controversy. However, even with the allegations of paras. 19-22, DCH fails to
sufficiently demonstrate the negligent repair claim is derivative and stems
from the Song-Beverly claims. SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
 
Apportionment of
Fault/Contribution
“[T]he
dichotomy between [contribution and indemnity] is more formalistic than
substantive,” and “‘[[i]ndemnity] is only an extreme form of contribution.’” American
Motorcycle Ass’n. v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 578, 591, fn. 3;
see Prince, 45 Cal.4th at 1162, fn. 7 [“[c]ontribution and
indemnity are related doctrines, but contribution ‘“presupposes a common
liability which is shared by the joint tortfeasors on a pro rata basis”’”].
“‘At the heart of the doctrine [of equitable indemnity] is apportionment based
on fault.’” Heritage Oaks Partners v. First American Title Ins. Co.
(2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 339, 348.
This is not a
recognized cause of action. There is no basis alleged under which SOA is liable
to DCH. SACC, paras. 11-13. SUSTAINED without leave to amend.