  Case Number:  18STCV05076    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  61 Plaintiffs and Defendants Sina
Mardani and Azadeh Mardani’s Motion to Compel Depositions of Defendant and
Plaintiff County of Los Angeles’ Persons Most Knowledgeable are GRANTED.
Sanctions are awarded against County and its counsel in the amount of $2,600.
 
 
I.       MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION
A party may make a
motion compelling a witness’s deposition “after service of a deposition notice”
if that witness “fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2025.450, subd. (a).) The motion must include a meet-and-confer
declaration and show good cause for the discovery sought. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2025.450, subd. (b)(1), (2).)
 
Plaintiffs Sina,
Azadeh, and Sohrab Mardani (Plaintiffs) move to compel the deposition of
Defendant County of Los Angeles’s (County’s) Person Most Knowledgeable (PMK)
with respect to two notices of deposition for different subjects. The first
such notice seeks a PMK concerning categories related to the replacement of the
subject sewer line, its estimated cost and effects, and related categories of
documents. (Motion Exh. A.) The second such notice concerns any County
investigation into comments made by County Engineer Robert Swartz concerning
the impact of a nearby storm drain on a sag in the subject sewer line, and
related documents. (Motion Exh. B.) County responded to both deposition notices
with objections, including among them the contention that the notice “seeks
information on those matters that is not presently known or reasonably
available to a deponent,” and indicated that no deposition would take place.
(Motion Exhs. C, D.)[1]
The notices were served on February 6, 2024, the objections were served on
February 22 and 23, and the Mardanis served a meet-and-confer letter on
February 27, to which the County did not respond. (Bahar Decl. ¶¶ 3, 4, 7.) 
 
The Mardanis argue
that the information sought is relevant to the assessment of their compensation
with respect to their inverse condemnation claim, as one of the measures of
damages is the cost of making repairs, the loss of use of the property, or the
present and prospective damages that are the reasonable incident of the taking.
(Motion at p. 8, citing Frustuck v. Fairfax (1963) 212 Cal.App.2d 345,
367.) The Mardanis also contend that the information is relevant to their
nuisance and trespass claims, which require analysis of whether the nuisance is
reasonably abatable. (Motion at p. 9.) Because the County alone is the only
party who may repair the sewer line, the Mardanis argue that questions
concerning its replacement are solely in its possession. (Motion at pp. 12–13.)
As to the storm drain notice, the Mardanis point to portions of the deposition
of Robert Swartz, in which he indicated that he had reported the storm drain as
the potential cause of the sag in the sewer line adjacent to the Mardanis’
home. (Motion Exh. F.) The Mardanis argue that a recent public records request
indicate that the County is in possession of documents related to such an
investigation, but are withholding them pursuant to an exemption for records
pertaining to pending litigation. (Motion Exh. I.) 
 
County in opposition
argues that it is being asked to produce witnesses that it does not have.
County’s counsel, Allen Thomas, states that he inquired with the Department of
Public Works to see if witnesses could be produced for the categories at issue,
and was informed as follows with regard to the replacement of the sewer
segment:
 
The first deposition notice sought testimony
from the persons most knowledgeable as to the replacement of the sewer line
segment from manhole 239 to manhole 238. Based upon my communications with the
Department of Public Works, a determination was made that there are no County
employees or agents who could testify as to the categories in that deposition
notice. I should also note that the subject pipe segment has not been replaced.
There has been no determination about whether the pipe requires replacement nor
an evaluation of its costs, the time involved to repair, etc. Therefore, no
person could be produced for deposition for the categories stated in the
Mardanis' deposition notice regarding such a replacement of that segment.
 
Based upon the County's replacement of a
segment of pipe between Manholes 240 and 239 underneath the Mardanis' front
yard, there is a strong probability that the County would use an outside third
party contractor under contract with the County if said pipe was replaced. To
date, the Department of Public Works has not engaged such a contractor for any
replacement of a sewer line between Manholes 239 and 238. Based upon what
occurred for replacement of the pipe between Manholes 240 and 239, I believe
the third party contractor would provide the Department of Public Works with
the cost estimate for the replacement pipe and a time schedule for said work. Consequently,
the County's Department of Public Works does not have information for a person
to be "most qualified" to testify about the categories listed in the
deposition notice for the replacement of a sewer pipe between Manholes 239 and
238.
 
(Thomas Decl. at pp.
15–16.) Thomas states that County has produced documents related to the
replacement of that segment between manholes 240 and 239. (Thomas Decl. at p.
16.) 
 
Thomas also contends
that he spoke to the County’s Storm Maintenance Division, and as there has been
no investigation of the storm drain, or whether it has caused a sag in the
sewer line, “there is no person to be produced by the County for said deposition.”
(Thomas Decl. at pp. 16–17.) Thomas also states that the deposition dates were
set unilaterally and without prior consultation with him about either the date
of deposition or the availability of any witness to testify on the subjects.
(Thomas Decl. at p. 17.) 
 
The Mardanis in
reply contend that even if no determination has been made concerning the
replacement of the subject sewer line, they are entitled to testimony from
someone other than County’s attorney concerning the process by which any such
determination is made. (Reply at p. 4.) Moreover, the Mardanis refer back to
the County’s response to their public records request, indicating that
responsive documents existed concerning the storm drain investigation, and
further note that their deposition notice sought testimony concerning those
documents. (Reply at pp. 7–8.) The Mardanis also complain of a recent pattern
in which the County objects to questions related to sewer maintenance decisions
on the grounds that those decisions are made in consultation with counsel and
therefore protected by the attorney-client privilege. (Reply at pp. 4–7.)
 
The deposition of a
person most qualified may be taken as follows:
 
If
the deponent named is not a natural person, the deposition notice shall
describe with reasonable particularity the matters on which examination is
requested. In that event, the deponent shall designate and produce at the
deposition those of its officers, directors, managing agents, employees, or
agents who are most qualified to testify on its behalf as to those matters to
the extent of any information known or reasonably available to the deponent.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. §
2025.230.) The potential for a motion to compel the appearance of such a person
has been endorsed in a leading treatise. (See Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil
Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2022) ¶ 8:476 [endorsing monetary
sanctions “against an entity for designating someone lacking knowledge of all
matters specified in the notice”].)
 
The Mardanis are entitled to the deposition on the notices
and categories identified. County in opposition does not dispute the relevance
of the given categories. It offers only the declaration of its counsel to
testify to the fact that, upon consultation with the relevant departments, no
person can be produced because no applicable determination or investigation on
the given subjects was ever made. Yet this assurance of counsel is less useful
to a litigant than a verified statement in a deposition by someone with
knowledge of the facts. 
 
Although County argues that its responses are similar to
responses to interrogatories or requests for production that indicate no
responsive information or documents exist (Opposition at p. 8, citing Code Civ.
Proc. §§ 2030.220; 2031.230), comparison with these statutes shows the
deficiency of the County’s response. The assurances offered under those
statutes are (1) expressly authorized by the statutes themselves and (2)
constitute verified statements of the responding party itself as to the lack of
responsive information. (See Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.210, subd. (a)
[response made “in writing under oath”]; 2031.250, subd. (a) [responding party
must respond “under oath unless the response contains only objections”].) 
 
By contrast, County’s arguments on its own inability to
comply with notices of deposition under Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.230 are
not authorized by any statute and are made solely through unverified averments
contained in its objections or the secondhand information contained in the declaration
of its counsel. Having shown good cause for the testimony sought, the Mardanis
may seek to confirm the County’s claims by surer means than the materials
submitted by County in opposition to this motion..
 
The County argues
that whatever relief this court orders, it may not encompass the Mardanis’
requests for production, as the Mardanis have not served a separate statement
addressing the documents at issue, as required under CRC Rule 3.1345, subd.
(a). (Opposition at p. 12.) But there was no practical need for a separate
statement for the requests for production, because County provided no separate
responses to any such requests. County’s objections to both deposition notices
included one final paragraph stating that “because the County will not be
producing any person in response to the deposition notice to take a “PMK”
deposition, and based upon the above, no documents will be produced,”
thereafter reserving the right to object to documents on various grounds.
(Motion Exhs. C, D.) The inclusion of a separate statement would have been
unhelpful in addressing what was essentially one response, containing
objections that the County does not support here.
 
The motions are therefore GRANTED.[2]
 
II.               
SANCTIONS
If a motion to
compel deposition is granted, “the court shall impose a monetary sanction . . .
 in favor of the party who noticed the
deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is
affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)
 
The Mardanis seek $3,250.00 in sanctions, representing five
hours of attorney work at $650 per hour. (Bahar Decl. ¶ 12.)
 
Sanctions are awarded against County and its counsel in the
amount of $2,600.


