  Case Number:  21PSCV00808    Hearing Date:   September 23, 2024    Dept:  H Murillo v. Dr. Privitera’s Holistic Clinic, et al., Case No. 21PSCV00808ORDER DENYING DEFENDANT’S MOTIONSThe  Court DENIES Defendant Privitera’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings and  Amended Motion for Disqualification. Background  In this  employment discrimination case, Plaintiff Malissa Murillo (“Plaintiff”) alleges  that while working for Defendants Dr. Privitera’s  Holistic Clinic (the “Clinic”), Alternative Endeavors, Inc. (“Endeavors”), and Anakin  Mark Privitera (“Privitera”) (collectively, “Defendants”) as an office  assistant at the Clinic, Privitera made lewd and vulgar comments in her  presence on a repeated basis and made sexual advances to her.On October  5, 2021, Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting causes of action against  Defendants and Does 1-40 for (1) discrimination based on sexual harassment in violation  of the Fair Employment and Housing Act (FEHA) and (2) failure to timely pay wages  owed.On December  23, 2021, the Clerk entered default against Endeavors. On April 18, 2022, the  Clerk entered default against the Clinic.On April 24,  2023, the court granted Endeavors’ motion to set aside default and motion to  quash service of summons.A Mandatory Settlement Conference is set for October 3, 2024. The Final Status Conference is set for October 30, 2024. The Court Trial is set for November 8, 2024. Pending  before the Court are Privitera’s motions for judgment on the pleadings and for  disqualification of plaintiff’s counsel. For the reasons stated herein, both  motions are denied.    1. Motion for Judgment on the  Pleadings  Legal Standard  The rules governing  demurrers are generally applicable to a motion for judgment on the pleadings. (Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998)  67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999; Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (d) [“The grounds for  motion. . . shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any  matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice. Where the motion  is based on a matter of which the court may take judicial notice. . ., the  matter shall be specified in the notice of motion, or in the supporting points  and authorities, except as the court may otherwise permit”].)    A motion by a plaintiff  may only be made on the grounds “that the complaint states facts sufficient to  constitute a cause or causes of action against the defendant and the answer  does not state facts sufficient to constitute a defense to the complaint.” (Code  Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(1)(A).) A motion by a defendant may only be made  on the grounds that (1) “[t]he court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the  cause of action alleged in the complaint” or (2) “[t]he complaint does not  state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against that defendant.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c).)  Discussion “Defendants”  move the court, per Code of Civil  Procedure section 438, for judgment on the pleadings, on the basis that  Plaintiff’s complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of  action against Privitera.As an initial matter, the Court notes that, while  the motion purports to have been filed by “Defendants,” it will be construed as  having been brought by Privitera only, inasmuch as the Clinic is in default and  Endeavors, as a corporation, must be represented by counsel (Caressa  Camille, Inc. v. Alcoholic Beverage Control Appeals Bd. (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th  1094, 1101 [“As a general rule, it is well established in California that a  corporation cannot represent itself in a court of record either in propria persona  or through an officer or agent who is not an attorney.”]). Privitera is not a  licensed attorney. Accordingly, the motion must be construed as seeking relief  as to Privitera only.The Court also notes that the reply brief filed  September 13, 2024 indicates that “Defendants” are also moving to dismiss the  matter for improper service. The Court declines to entertain this request  because it is beyond the scope of the moving papers. The Court also declines to  review the exhibits attached to the reply brief as improper for consideration  on a motion for judgment on the pleadings.Although a nonstatutory  motion “may be made at any time either prior to the trial or at the trial  itself” (Stoops v. Abbassi (2002) 100  Cal.App.4th 644, 650 [quotation marks and citation omitted]), a statutory  motion cannot be made after entry of a pretrial conference order or 30 days  before the initial trial date, whichever is later, unless the court otherwise  permits. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (e).)   The initial trial date in  this matter was July 14, 2023. The instant motion was filed nearly a year  afterwards, on July 5, 2024. The Court denies Privitera’s statutory motion as untimely.    2.  Amended Motion to Disqualify Legal  Standard Rule  1.7 of the California Rules of Professional Conduct addresses conflicts of  interest and explains when a lawyer must obtain informed written consent or  disclose a conflict of interest to a client. For instance, “[a] lawyer shall  not, without informed written consent from each client . . . represent a client  if the representation is directly adverse to another client in the same or a  separate matter” or “if there is a significant risk the lawyer’s representation  of the client will be materially limited by the lawyer’s responsibilities to or  relationships with another client, a former client or a third person, or by the  lawyer’s own interests.” (Cal. R. Prof. Conduct [“CRPC”] 1.7.) “Whether  an attorney should be disqualified is a matter addressed to the sound  discretion of the trial court.” (National Grange of Order of Patrons of  Husbandry v. California Guild (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 706, 713 [quotations  and citation omitted].)    Discussion Privitera moves the court for an  order disqualifying Plaintiff’s counsel Thomas Byrnes (“Byrnes”) and Marcy  Railsback (“Railsback”).[FN1]At the outset, the Court notes that it declines to  consider the parties’ September 13, 2024 filings relating to this motion. Specifically,  the Court declines to consider: (1) Plaintiff’s 16-page document entitled “Objections to ‘Defendant’s Reply to  Plaintiff’s Opposition to Defendant’s Motion to Disqualify Plaintiff’s Counsel’  and Request that Motion and ‘Reply’ be Stricken, and Privitera Admonished and Instructed”  and (2) Privitera’s 107-page document entitled “Amended Defendant’s Reply to  Plaintiff’s Opposition to Motion for Disqualification; Points and Authorities  in Support; Request for Exception to Submit an (Amended) Reply Due to New Facts  that Have Arisen.” Both filings are not authorized by Code, were not permitted  by the Court, and constitute an improper attempt to circumvent the page  limitations of the California Rules of Court.Turning to the merits of Privitera’s motion, Privitera  has not demonstrated that Byrnes’ and/or Railsback’s representation of  Plaintiff in this matter constitutes any conflict of interest contemplated by the  California Rules of Professional Conduct.[FN2] Moreover, while Privitera appears to argue  that Byrnes has blackmailed him or otherwise acted inappropriately, Privitera’s  contention is not supported by any declaration. The Court declines to consider  Exhibits 1-4 attached to the motion as they have not been sufficiently  identified and authenticated.The Court also declines to consider any new  authority and/or argument raised for the first time in Privitera’s reply. (American  Drug Stores, Inc. v. Stroh (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1446, 1453 [“Points raised  for the first time in a reply brief will ordinarily not be considered, because  such consideration would deprive the respondent of an opportunity to counter  the argument”]; Jay v. Mahaffey (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1522, 1537  [“[N]ew evidence is not permitted with reply papers”].)Privitera’s motion is denied.     