  Case Number:  23AHCV01932    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



GARY SMITH, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
GENERAL
   MOTORS LLC,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV01932
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER DISCOVERY RESPONSES TO SPECIAL
   INTERROGATORIES (SET ONE) 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
October
   23, 2024




 


)


 



 
On May 29, 2024, plaintiff Gary Smith
(“Plaintiff”) file this motion for an order striking defendant Defendant
General Motors LLC’s (“Defendant”) objections and compelling further responses
to Special Interrogatories (Set One) (“SROG”) Nos. 14, 20, 23, 25, 26, 39, 41,
and 43. Plaintiff seeks the identification of key witnesses, namely, those who
inspected and tested the vehicle at issue in this action (“Vehicle”) and those
who performed warranty repairs on the Vehicle; those who participated in the
investigation relating to Plaintiff’s complaints of the Vehicle; the Person Most
Knowledgeable of Defendant relating to warranty policies; the person in charge
of the customer relations department in the district or region having
jurisdiction over Plaintiff’s complaint; those who made the decision not to
repurchase and/or replace the Vehicle; and the supervisor who was in charge to
make sure Defendant properly determines whether a vehicle should be repurchased
or replaced under the Song Beverly Act. The term “IDENTIFY”, as used in
Plaintiff’s special interrogatories, means “to state that person’s full name,
title or occupation, present or last known address and telephone number,
current employer, and employer’s address and phone number.” 
As the responding party, Defendant
bears the burden of showing facts which justify each of its objections. (Coy
v. Superior Court of Contra Costa County (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220.) In its
response to Plaintiff’s separate statement, Defendant generally argues that it
has provided fully Code-compliant responses by asserting appropriate objections
and specifically identifying and referring to documents as permitted by Code of
Civil Procedure section 2030.230. Defendant also broadly argues that Plaintiff
already possesses the information sought with these special interrogatories and
that Plaintiff failed to substantively meet and confer. These arguments are not
persuasive. 
With respect to SROG Nos. 14 and 20, Defendant
states that it does not have records with which it can identify any specific
individuals who performed warranty repairs or inspections. Therefore, Defendant
contends, it is sufficient for it to refer to service reports, warranty
history, and repair orders which Defendant obtained from its authorized
dealerships. Defendant emphasizes that it does not have an agency relationship
with its authorized repair facilities and otherwise disclaims any
responsibility to ask them for information about the individual employees
identified in the documents it produced. 
“A responding party must provide a
response to interrogatories that is “as complete and straightforward as the
information reasonably available to the responding party permits.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.220, subd. (a).) “If the responding party does not have personal
knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party shall so
state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the
information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where
the information is equally available to the propounding party.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.220, subd. (d).) Irrespective of whether an agency relationship
exists as a matter of law (an issue for which neither party provides adequate legal
authority), the information within the possession of the authorized dealerships/repair
shops appears to be more easily available to Defendant by virtue of the fact that
repairs under Defendant’s warranty must be performed by those authorized
facilities. (Reply, p. 2.) Accordingly, a further response which provides all
the information requested by SROG Nos. 14 and 20 must be provided, which
includes the identities of any individuals, their title or occupation, present
or last known address and telephone number, current employer, and employer’s
address and phone number.
          As for the
remaining SROGs, Defendant argues that further responses are unnecessary. SROG
Nos. 25, 26, and 39 request that Defendant identify the people responsible for
“the customer relationship department in the district or region having
jurisdiction over” Plaintiff’s complaints, as well as Defendant’s present
employee in California who is most knowledgeable of Defendant’s warranty
policies, and the individuals whose responsibility it is to supervise
Defendant’s decision-making process as to whether a vehicle should be
repurchased or replaced. SROG Nos. 23, 41, and 43 request the identities of the
individuals who: (1) had knowledge of Plaintiff’s notice of defect to Defendant
or anyone acting on Defendant’s behalf, (2) were involved in Defendant’s
investigation with whom Defendant communicated regarding the Vehicle, and (3) involved
in Defendant’s decision not to repurchase or replace the Vehicle.
Defendant argues that it does not need
to identify any witnesses in response to these 6 special interrogatories because
it has already produced documents and manuals containing its internal lemon law
policies and procedures and the Vehicle’s service history. (Opp., p. 7.) Defendant
argues, without evidence, that requiring it to furnish identifying information would
be burdensome and redundant. (Opp., p. 7.) Defendant also claims that further
responses would “in no way assist Plaintiff in uncovering facts for trial that
he has not already obtained.” (Opp., p. 7.) The Court disagrees.  “Discovery may be obtained of the identity
... of persons having knowledge of any discoverable matter.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2017.010.) Even if related documents have been produced, Plaintiff may still
wish to depose the individuals involved in any decisions made about the Vehicle
and examine, for purposes of a civil penalty, if those decisions complied with
Defendant’s own internal policies. 
          Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s motion is GRANTED. Defendant’s objections to SROG Nos. 14, 20, 23,
25-26, 39, 41, and 43 are overruled. Defendant is ordered to serve further
responses within 20 days of this Order.
          Defendant’s
request for sanctions is DENIED. The Court does not impose sanctions on
Defendant because Plaintiff did not request them. 
 
Dated
this 23rd
day of October, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 