 Case Number:  24NNCV03730    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



JOSE CARMEN LOPEZ, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
FORD
   MOTOR COMPANY,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )


      CASE NO.: 24NNCV03730
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR CHANGE OF VENUE
 
 
 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
October
   23, 2024



 
This lemon law action, brought by
plaintiff Jose Carmen Lopez (“Plaintiff”) was filed on August 21, 2024, and
Defendant Ford Motor Company (“Defendant”) timely filed this motion for change
of venue on September 20, 2024. Plaintiff alleges that he purchased a 2019 Ford
Fusion on June 17, 2019. (Compl., ¶ 8.) The action arises from Defendant’s
repair and warranty obligations. Plaintiff details five instances where he
presented his vehicle for repair. Plaintiff does not allege where the sales transaction
or repairs took place. Defendant contends that this action should be
transferred to Imperial County because Plaintiff purchased his vehicle in El
Centro, California, from El Centro Motors, and the warranty repairs were
performed by El Centro Motors. (Motion, p. 1.) Plaintiff did not oppose the
motion. 
On
timely motion, the court must order a transfer of venue “when the court
designated in the complaint is not the proper court.”
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 396b, 397(a).) “Venue is determined based on the complaint
on file at the time the motion to change venue is
made.” (Brown v. Superior Court
(1984) 37 Cal.3d 477, 482.) A corporate defendant may be sued “in the county
where the contract is made or is to be performed, or where the obligation or
liability arises, or the breach occurs; or in the county where the principal
place of business of such corporation is situated.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 395.5.)

The burden is on the
moving party to establish facts justifying the transfer. (Mission Imports, Inc. v. Superior Court (1982) 31 Cal.3d 921,
928.) Absent “an affirmative showing to the contrary, the presumption is that
the county in which the title of the action shows that it is brought is, prima facie, the proper county for the commencement and trial of
the action.” (Ibid.; Fontaine v. Superior Court (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 830, 836.)
The moving party may submit declarations containing admissible evidence in
support of the motion to transfer venue. (Mission
Imports, supra, 31 Cal.3d at p. 928.) 

Defense counsel declares that he has
represented Defendant in lemon law actions for over ten years and, on
information and belief, Defendant’s principal place of business is in Dearborn,
Michigan. (Shugart Decl., ¶ 3.) Counsel states that he requested sales and
service records from Plaintiff for the vehicle at issue in this action but did
not receive any response. (Id., ¶ 4.) Counsel attaches Defendant’s records and
states that they indicate that Plaintiff’s vehicle was invoiced to El Centro
Motors in El Centro, California, on or around January 7, 2019, and that El
Centro Motors was the selling dealer. (Id., ¶¶ 5-6.) The attached
records also reflect that El Centro Motors is the only dealer at which warranty
repairs were performed. (Id., ¶ 7.) The Court additionally takes judicial
notice of the fact that El Centro is located in the County of Imperial,
California, as requested by Defendant. 
In light of the evidence submitted by
Defendant, the Court GRANTS the motion to transfer the action to Imperial
County. Plaintiff is ordered to pay all applicable costs and fees before
transfer is made to Imperial County. Such costs and fees shall be paid within
thirty (30) days of the date of this Order. If Plaintiff fails to pay the fees
within this period of time, Defendant may pay those costs and fees and the
clerk shall transmit the papers and pleadings of the action. Those costs and
fees shall be recoverable as costs by Defendant if it is the prevailing party,
or deducted from any amount awarded to Plaintiff if Plaintiff prevails against
Defendant. (Code Civ. Proc., § 399, subd. (a).)
 
Moving party to give notice.
 
Dated
this 23rd
day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear
at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and
argue the matter. Unless you receive a submission from all other parties in the
matter, you should assume that others might appear at the hearing to argue. If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
 