 Case Number:  23SMCV01319    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


April
  23, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV01319




MOTION


Motion
  for Protective Order




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants
  Austin Sherman and GEM Botanicals L.L.C.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Cheryl Baker



 
MOTION
 
            Defendants Austin Sherman and GEM
Botanicals L.L.C. (“Defendants”) move for a protective order restricting or
limiting the amount of discovery demands propounded by Plaintiff Cheryl Baker
(“Plaintiff.”)  Plaintiff opposes and
Defendants reply. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARDS
 
Per Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.060, subdivision (a), “[w]hen
an inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of documents, tangible things,
places or electronically stored information has been demanded, the party to
whom the demand has been directed, and any other party or affected person, may
promptly move for a protective order.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.060, subd. (a).)  “The court, for good cause shown, may make
any order that justice requires to protect any party or other person from
unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and
expense.  This protective order may
include…[t]hat all or some of the items or categories of items in the demand
need not be produced or made available at all.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.060, subd. (b).)  “A party seeking the protective order must
show by a preponderance of the evidence that the issuance of a protective order
is proper.”  (Stadish v. Superior
Court (1999) 71 Cal.App.4th 1130, 1145.)
 
Similarly, no party shall, as a matter of right, propound to any other
party more than 35 specially prepared interrogatories (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.030, subd. (b)) or request that any other party admit more than 35 matters
that do not relate to the genuineness of documents (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.030, subd. (a).)  The responding
party may seek a protective order.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.090 [special interrogatories]; § 2033.080 [admissions].)
 
The propounding party may propound more than the 35 special
interrogatories and/or admissions, upon submitting a declaration, pursuant to
section 2030.050 [special interrogatories] and/or section 2033.050 [admissions],
demonstrating that the greater number is warranted by the complexity or the quality
of the existing and potential issues in the particular case.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.040 [admissions]; §
2030.040 [special interrogatories].) 
Special interrogatories in excess of 35 may also be appropriate upon a
showing that the financial burden on a party in conducting the discovery by
oral deposition or the expedience of using special interrogatories to conduct
the inquiry, investigation, or search of files or records to supply the
information sought.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.040, subd. (a).)
 
If a responding party seeks a protective order on the grounds that the
number of requests is unwarranted, the propounding party shall have the burden
of justifying the number of requests. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.040, subd. (b) [special interrogatories]; §
2033.040, subd. (b) [admissions].)
 
There is no statutory limit to the number of form interrogatories that
may be propounded.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.030.)
 
ANALYSIS
 
Here, Defendants claim good cause exists for the requested protective
order because Plaintiff has propounded discovery as follows:
 
1. Form Interrogatories Set 1 - to Austin
Sherman - 36 demands; 
2. Form Interrogatories Set 1 - to Gem
Botanicals L.L.C - 34 demands; 
3. Form Interrogatories Set 1 - to DBA3 of
Gem - 34 demands; 
 
4. Request for Admissions propounded to
Austin Sherman - 115 requests; 
5. Request for Admissions propounded to
Gem Botanicals L.L.C - 70 requests; 
6. Request for Admissions propounded to
DBA of Gem - 70 requests; 
 
7. Request for Production of Documents Set
1 - to Austin Sherman - 67 demands;  
8. Req. for Prod. of Documents Set 1- to
Gem Botanicals LLC- 41 demands;  
9. Request for Production of Documents Set
1 - to DBA of Gem - 41 demands;  
 
10. Special Interrogatories Set 1 - to
Austin Sherman - 181 interrogatories;  
11. Special Interrogatories Set 1 - to DBA
of Gem - 87 interrogatories;  
12. Special Interrogatories Set 1-to Gem
Botanicals LLC - 87 interrogatories; 
 
            Defendants argue that although
Plaintiff provided the required declarations to support the excess requests, Plaintiff
has provided only boilerplate language in both the declarations and in meet and
confer discussions.
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff argues (1)
Defendants have not met their burden to show good cause for a protective order;
(2) Defendants improperly lump together the requests to all three Defendants;
(3) the matter is not “ordinary” or “run of the mill” because it involves four
causes of action for public nuisance, private nuisance, waste, and breach of
contract, Defendant Sherman’s cross-complaint asserts three causes of action
for intentional interference with expected inheritance, intentional infliction
of emotional distress, and violation of Civil Code section 789.3, and the Los
Angeles Municipal code contains seven categories of commercial cannabis
activity requiring licensing.
 
            Special Interrogatories and
Requests for Admission
 
            The Court finds that Defendants have
shown good cause, by virtue of the sheer number of special interrogatories (“SROG”)
and requests for admission (“RFA”) that have been propounded.  While Plaintiff is correct that the requests
to each Defendant should be considered separately, the requests to each
defendant far exceed the allowable 35 requests.
 
            Having challenged the number of
requests, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to justify the number of
requests.  Plaintiff has failed to do so
here.  The Complaint alleges only four
causes of action, two of which are for nuisance (public and private).  Moreover, the causes of action are related
and will likely involve similar or overlapping evidence.  Similarly, although the Cross-Complaint
alleges three causes of action, the underlying alleged conduct is the same, and
therefore, will likely involve substantially the same evidence.  Furthermore, the fact that the municipal code
regulates seven types of cannabis activity does not inherently mean that all seven
types of activity are relevant to this litigation, or that it is not feasible
for Plaintiff to obtain the necessary information using the thirty-five special
interrogatories and non-document-related requests for admission. 
 
            Defendants request, and the Court
agrees, that it will be in the best interest of both parties for the Court to
grant a protective order absolving Defendants of the responsibility to respond
to the entire RFA set 1 and SROG set 1, and allowing Plaintiff to propound a
new set of up to 35 RFA and 35 SROG.  Plaintiff
may only exceed the 35 requests per Defendant upon a showing of the specific
reasons why additional requests are required. 
At this stage, the Court declines to order that Plaintiff seek the
requested information via oral deposition, however Plaintiff may choose to
pursue the requested information via oral deposition.  
 
            Form Interrogatories
 
            The statute does not restrict the
number of form interrogatories (“FROG”) a party may propound on another party,
because form interrogatories are inherently restricted by the form.  Defendants have not provided any statutory or
other legal basis to grant relief from the form interrogatories.  As such, Defendants’ request is denied with
respect to the form interrogatories.
 
            Requests for Production
 
            Upon review of the requests for
production (“RPD”), the Court does not find the requests excessive or
unreasonable.  Essentially, instead of
making a single request for all documents that support the Defendants’
affirmative defenses and cross-complaint allegations, Defendants’ specific
contentions are broken out into separate requests.  However, the number of documents produced would
be the same.  Therefore, Defendants’
request is denied with respect to the requests for production.
 
            Duplicate Requests to
Defendants Sherman, GEM Botanicals, and a GEM Botanicals DBA
 
            Defendants have not provided the Court
with statutory or other legal authority to require Plaintiff to refrain from
serving duplicate requests on Defendants Sherman, Gem Botanicals, and a Gem
Botanicals DBA.  Therefore, the Court
denies Defendants’ request insofar as it asks to restrain Plaintiff from
serving duplicative discovery requests on separate Defendants.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the foregoing reasons, the
Court grants in part and denies in part Defendants’ motion for a protective
order.  Because Plaintiff has propounded
RFA and SROG in excess of the 35 requests allowable as a matter of right without
justification, the Court orders that Defendants do not need to respond to the
RFA set 1 or SROG set 1 that have currently been propounded.  Plaintiff may propound up to 35 RFA not
pertaining to document authentication and up to 35 SROG.  In so doing, Plaintiff may reiterate some of the
RFA and SROG previously propounded.    
 
The Court otherwise denies
Defendants’ request for a protective order and orders Defendants to serve
responses to the FROG and RPD on or before May 23, 2024.
 
Defendants shall provide
notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof of service of such.
 
 
DATED:  April 23, 2024                                ________________________________
                                                                        Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                        Judge
of the Superior Court
 