 Case Number:  22STCV03151    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  11 MacDonald (22STCV03151)
 
Tentative Ruling
Re: Motion for Class Certification
 
Date:                           10/30/24
Time:                          11:00
am
Moving Party:           James
MacDonald (“Plaintiff”)
Opposing Party:        Karen
Winnick (“Defendant”)[1]
Department:              11
Judge:                        David
S. Cunningham III
________________________________________________________________________
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The hearing on Plaintiff’s motion for class certification is
continued.  The Court grants Plaintiff’s
counsel leave to file a supplemental declaration addressing adequacy.
 
BACKGROUND
 
The first amended complaint (“FAC”) alleges that Qello, LLC
(“Qello”) was formed in 2010 to provide music-themed streaming services.  (See FAC, ¶ 1.)  To finance the project, the company sold
“renewable short term promissory notes (the ‘Original Notes’)” to “third
parties (collectively, the ‘Noteholders’)[.]” 
(Id. at ¶ 2.)  The Original Notes
were “fully secured by all of Qello’s assets.” 
(Ibid.)
 
The project “manifested in the form of ‘Qello Concerts,’ which by
2015 had grown to become the world’s largest collection of on-demand full
length concerts and music documentaries, live music events and other original
programming.”  (Id. at ¶ 4.)  “To Qello’s Noteholders, and []
the public at large, Qello Concerts was the company’s flagship, ‘crown jewel’
asset.”  (Id. at ¶ 5.)  “Qello Concerts was also the company’s most
valuable asset, as evidenced by the fact that the revenues associated therewith
served both as the primary source of repayment of and principal form of
security for the Original Notes.” 
(Ibid.)
 
In 2016, Winnick
“set his sights on Qello as a potential investment opportunity.”  (Id. at ¶ 6.) 
“He spent the next several months working closely with Qello’s
then-Chairman, David Gentile, to develop a transition strategy whereby Winnick
would acquire an equity interest in Qello and further assume total control
over” the direction of the company. 
(Ibid.)
 
“Winnick saw
Qello’s infrastructure as an opportunity to create a ‘white label’ streaming
platform that would deliver streaming content to Asian media markets through a
series of to-be-determined partnerships that Winnick hoped to deliver[,]” but
there was a problem.  (Id. at ¶ 7.)  “Qello’s outstanding debt owed to the
Noteholders — which by this time had grown to more than $11 million — was set
to mature in early 2017.”  (Id. at ¶
8.)  “Given the impending maturity date
and total amount owed on the Original Notes, Winnick understandably viewed the
Noteholders, and in particular their associated secured claim relating to both
Qello’s cash flows and the underlying intrinsic value of the company, as an
impediment to his plans[.]”  (Id. at ¶
9.)
 
Winnick responded
by “develop[ing] a strategic and methodical plan to undermine the security for
the Original Notes and ultimately strong-arm the Noteholders to convert their
debt into equity, with the goal of minimizing, or even eliminating,” the obligation
to repay.  (Id. at ¶ 10.)  “This in turn would create breathing room and
free up cash for the ‘bet the company’ strategy Winnick was about to pursue.”  (Ibid.)
 
“Consistent with
this plan, Winnick made it clear that he was unwilling to invest in Qello with
the outstanding noteholder debt coming due for payment.”  (Id. at ¶ 11.)  “[A]s a condition of investment he required
that Qello obtain agreements from the Noteholders to extend the maturity dates
on their Original Notes.”  (Ibid.)
 
On 1/27/17,
“Qello, at the direction of Winnick and Gentile, sent out a solicitation
package (the ‘2017 Solicitation Package’) to the Noteholders promoting the
forthcoming Winnick investment and asking the Noteholders to extend/renew the
maturity date for their existing Notes for a two-year period in order to
facilitate Winnick’s investment.”  (Id.
at ¶ 12.)  “The 2017 Solicitation Package
included the proposed new promissory notes (the ‘Renewed Notes’) and security
agreements, which expressly stated that the Company would continue to engage in
its same business . . . .”  (Id. at ¶
13.)
 
A main item on
Winnick’s agenda was to sell Qello Concerts. 
(See id. at ¶ 15.)  “To that end,
even before the 2017 Solicitation Package was sent out, Winnick had made clear
behind the scenes that he wanted no part of the music industry.”  (Ibid.) 
“By late December 2016/early January 2017, Gentile and Winnick — who
together had complete strategic control and direction of the Company — had
decided to sell Qello Concerts and refocus Qello’s business on other
pursuits.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“Indeed, by the
time the 2017 Solicitation Package was sent out, Qello and a potential
purchaser, Stingray Music USA (‘Stingray’), were in advanced negotiations
concerning the purchase of Qello Concerts.” 
(Id. at ¶ 17.)  “These
negotiations yielded a detailed term sheet just four (4) days after the 2017
Solicitation Package — which was devoid of any mention of the Stingray
negotiations — was sent out the Noteholders.” 
(Ibid.)
 
“Winnick’s
decision to sell Qello Concerts would (and [ultimately] did) eliminate the only
meaningful collateral securing the obligation to repay Noteholders.”  (Id. at ¶ 18.)  “The impact the Winnick Transaction would
have on the Noteholder was intentionally concealed, however, by a dubious
suggestion in the 2017 Solicitation Package that the Renewed Notes would remain
collateralized by all of Qello’s assets . . . notwithstanding the fact that
Winnick intended to, and by this time had already started creating, a new
corporate structure that would acquire and hold assets outside of the
Noteholders’ reach.”  (Id. at ¶ 19.)  
 
Plaintiff claims
the 2017 Solicitation Package misrepresented that Qello’s “focus would remain
the same following the closing of the Winnick Transaction without disclosing”
“the sale of Qello Concerts” and “also failed to disclose that the Noteholders’
security position would be materially worse following the Winnick Transaction,
as the Noteholders would have only limited security interests in the assets of
a newly-created subsidiary, not the new restructured entity Winnick claimed to
be working to build.”  (Id. at ¶¶ 20,
21.)
 
In reliance, “the
Noteholders agreed to execute and deliver the Renewed Notes and thereby
extended the maturity date on the Noteholder debtor for an additional two-year
term beginning in February 2017.”  (Id.
at ¶ 22.)
 
The FAC asserts
four causes of action:
 
* violation of
Corporations Code section 25504;
 
* violation of
Corporations Code section 25504.1;
 
* aiding and
abetting fraud; and
 
* negligent misrepresentation.
 
(1/6/23 Ruling Re:
Demurrer to First Amended Complaint, pp. 1-3, footnote omitted.)
 
In
January 2023, the Court heard Winnick’s demurrer.  The Court overruled the demurrer as to the
first three causes of action and sustained it with leave to amend as to the
fourth.  (See id. at pp. 3-12.)
 
Plaintiff
did not amend, so only the first three causes of action remain alive.
 
Now,
Plaintiff moves for class certification.
 
LAW
 
The plaintiff bears the burden of
demonstrating that class certification is proper.  (See City of San Jose v. Superior Court
(1974) 12 Cal.3d 447, 460; see also Caro v. Procter & Gamble Co.
(1993) 18 Cal.App.4th 644, 654.)  To do
so, [t]he party advocating class treatment must
demonstrate the existence of an ascertainable and sufficiently numerous class,
a well-defined community of interest, and substantial benefits from
certification that render proceeding as a class superior to the alternatives.”  (Brinker Restaurant Corp. v. Superior
Court (2012) 53 Cal.4th 1004, 1021.) 

 
DISCUSSION
 
Ascertainability
and Numerosity
 
A class is “ascertainable when it is defined ‘in terms of objective
characteristics and common transactional facts’ that make ‘the ultimate
identification of class members possible when that identification becomes
necessary.’”  (Noel v. Thrifty
Payless, Inc. (2019) 7 Cal.5th 955, 980.)
 
“The
class must be ‘numerous’ in size.  But
there is no fixed minimum or maximum number . . . The numerosity analysis is
limited to how many individuals fall within the class definition and
whether their joinder is impracticable, not how many ‘net’ class members there
might be after considering affirmative defenses.”  (Edmon & Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide:
Civ. Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group June 2023 Update) ¶ 14:21,
emphasis in original.) 
 
“A party seeking class
certification bears the burden of satisfying the requirements of Code of Civil
Procedure section 382, including numerosity, and the trial court is entitled to
consider ‘the totality of the evidence in making [the] determination’ of
whether a ‘plaintiff has presented substantial evidence of the class action
requisites.’”  (Soderstedt v. CBIZ S.
California, LLC (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 133, 154.)
 
Plaintiff seeks to certify one
class.  The proposed class definition is
“[a]ll persons who purchased and/or renewed a promissory note offered by Qello
Holdings, LLC pursuant to written solicitation materials dated January 27, 2017
(i.e., the Solicitation Package).” 
(Motion, p. 9; see also id. at pp. 9-10 [excluding: “any investors who
previously released claims for payment under the notes (including Dora Zhang
and/or Brilight Investments); any immediate family members of Judge David S.
Cunningham III; any current or former directors or officers of Qello Holdings,
LLC and its parents, subsidiaries, or affiliates; and any entity in which Qello
Holdings, LLC has a controlling interest”].)
 
Plaintiff contends the proposed
class is ascertainable and numerous because:
 
The Qello notes
purchased by the proposed class members were private placements offerings
arising out of a single, “common transaction,” namely, the renewal of
promissory notes in January/February 2017 following receipt of the Solicitation
Package. The Solicitation Package was specifically directed to a particular
individual or investor, thus providing the exact names and addresses of each
member of the proposed class. Distributed copies of the Solicitation Package
were produced in discovery.
 
* * *
 
. . . Approximately
25 noteholders are included in the class, which is within the range California
courts recognize as sufficient to certify a class. . . .
 
(Id. at pp. 10,
11.)
 
Defendant did not contest this
prong.  (See Opposition, pp. 16-20
[merely addressing commonality and typicality].)
 
The Court agrees with
Plaintiff.  The facial definition
contains sufficient objective characteristics and
transactional facts, and it is undisputed that the putative class
members can be ascertained from Defendant’s records.  Moreover, 25 members is more than
enough.  (See Edmon & Karnow, supra,
at ¶ 14:21.1 [instructing that “[n]o minimum number of plaintiffs is required
as a matter of law for maintenance of a state court class action”]; see also
id. at ¶ 14:21.3 [finding a class of 10 permissible]; Hendershot v. Ready to
Roll Transportation, Inc. (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 1213, 1222-1223
[reversing denial of a nine-member class].)
 
Commonality
 
“[T]he proponent of certification
must show, inter alia, that questions
of law or fact common to the class predominate over the questions affecting the
individual members[.]” (Washington Mutual Bank, FA v. Superior Court
(2001) 24 Cal.4th 906, 913.) This means “each member must not be
required to individually litigate numerous and substantial questions to
determine his [or her] right to recover following the class judgment[.]”  (Edmon & Karnow, supra, at ¶
14:11.6.)  “[T]he issues which may be
jointly tried, when compared with those requiring separate adjudication, must
be sufficiently numerous and substantial to make the class action advantageous
to the judicial process and to the litigants.” (Ibid.)
 
Plaintiff claims common evidence can be used to show:
 
* “the Solicitation Package was misleading (relevant
to all claims)” (Motion, p. 12); 
 
* “Winnick controlled Qello when
the Solicitation Package was sent out (relevant to claim under Corp. Code §
25504)” (ibid.);
 
* “Winnick never intended to
repay the renewed notes in accordance with their terms (relevant to claims
under Corp. Code § 25504.1 and for aiding and abetting fraud)” (ibid.); and 
 
* “Winnick provided critical aid
and assistance that induced the noteholders to renew (relevant to claims under
Corp. Code § 25504.1 and for aiding and abetting fraud).”  (Ibid.)
 
Defendant contends the issue of
reliance is individualized and predominates over common issues:
 
. . . The essence of
the putative class’s claim is that the Solicitation Package contained
misleading statements and omissions concerning the direction of the company,
particularly the decision to sell Qello Concerts. Proof of any violation will
thus necessarily require proof that each member of the class justifiably relied
on Qello not selling the concerts arm and pursuing a white label strategy. . .
.
 
(Opposition, p. 17; see also id.
at p. 18 [citing Cohen v. DIRECTV, Inc. (2009) 178 Cal. App. 4th 966 and
Kaldenbach v. Mutual of Omaha Life Insurance Co. (2009) 178 Cal. App.
4th 830 for the proposition that “California courts have refused to certify
class actions seeking to recover for fraudulent or misleading conduct where the
class would include members that had differing knowledge or received different
information from the Defendant”].)
 
The Court turns to the causes of
action.
 
First Cause of Action (Corporations Code Section 25504)
 
Corporations
Code section 25401 provides:
 
It is unlawful for any person to offer
or sell a security in this state, or to buy or offer to buy a security in this
state, by means of any written or oral communication that includes an untrue
statement of a material fact or omits to state a material fact necessary to make
the statements made, in the light of the circumstances under which the
statements were made, not misleading.
 
(Cal. Corps. Code § 25401.)
 
Section 25501 makes a violator of
section 25401 “liable to the person purchasing such securities for recission or
damages.”  (Soza & Jann, Cal. Prac.
Guide – Corps. (The Rutter Group 2022) ¶ 5:390.)
 
Section
25504 imposes joint and several liability on “[e]very person who directly or
indirectly controls the violator.”  (Id.
at ¶ 5:373.) 
 
To
meet the control requirement, the plaintiff must allege facts supporting an
inference that the defendant “‘had the power to control the general affairs of
the entity primarily liable at the time the entity violated the securities laws
. . . [and] had the requisite power to directly or indirectly control or
influence the specific corporate policy which resulted in the primary
liability.’  [Citation.]”  (Hellum v. Breyer (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th
1300, 1317.) 
 
“[W]hether
someone qualifies as a controlling person is ‘a complex factual
question.’”  (Ibid.)  “As such, it is ‘not ordinarily subject to
resolution on a motion to dismiss,’ and dismissal is appropriate only when ‘a
plaintiff does not plead any facts from which it can reasonably be inferred the
defendant was a control person. 
[Citations.]’”  (Ibid.) 
 
(1/6/23
Ruling Re: Demurrer to First Amended Complaint, pp. 4-5.)
 
At the demurrer hearing, Winnick
argued that Plaintiff failed to state facts showing control.  (See id. at pp. 3-4.)
 
Here, the issue is
different.  The opposition brief does not
discuss control, and Defendant did not object to the control evidence.  Instead, Defendant asserts that (1) Plaintiff
must show reliance to establish the first cause of action, and (2) reliance is
an individual issue.  (See Opposition,
pp. 16-18.)
 
The Court disagrees.  Per section 25504, when a violator violates
section 25401, the controller of the violator is liable for the violation.  (See Soza & Jann, supra, at ¶ 5:373.)  Effectively, on the current record, Winnick’s
alleged control over Qello is undisputed. 
As for reliance, section 25401 does not require it.  (See Bowden v. Robinson (1977) 67
Cal.App.3d 705, 715; see also Reply, pp. 3-4.) 
The key question is whether the violator made a “written . . . communication
that include[d] an untrue statement of a material fact or omit[ted] . . . a
material fact[.]”  (Cal. Corps. Code §
25401.)  It is the kind of question that
can be decided on a class-wide basis by, in part, looking at the face of the
document without considering reliance. 
Bottom line, whether certain uniform statements and/or omissions in the
Solicitation Package were untrue and material is a predominating common
question that should be certified.
 
Cohen and Kaldenbach do not change the result.  The Cohen and Kaldenbach
plaintiffs alleged Unfair Competition Law and Consumer Legal Remedies Act
causes of action, which have reliance as an element.  (See id. at 969, 980; see also Kaldenbach,
supra, 178 Cal.App.4th at 833; Stern, Business & Professions
Code Section 17200 (The Rutter Group March 2023 Update) ¶ 3:167.1; In re
Tobacco II Cases (2009) 46 Cal.4th 298, 306; Durell v. Sharp
Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1355.)  
 
Second
Cause of Action (Corporations Code Section 25504.1)
 
Section 25504.1
establishes “aider and abettor” liability. 
“[E]ven without any relationship to the violator [citation], a person
who ‘materially assists’ in the violation ‘with intent to
deceive or defraud’ – i.e., with intent to induce reliance on the
knowing misrepresentation – is jointly and severally liable.”  (Soza & Jann, supra, at ¶ 5:408, emphasis
in original.)
 
Intent to defraud
“is a requirement as to [] persons sought to be held liable as ‘aiders
and abettors.’”  (Id. at ¶ 5:409,
emphasis in original.)
 
Moreover, the “defendant must have materially
assisted in the actual
securities law violation.
I.e., plaintiff must show how defendant assisted in the act of selling or offering to sell securities by means
of false and misleading statements (or omissions).” 
(Id. at ¶ 5:409.1, emphasis in original.)
 
(1/6/23 Ruling Re: Demurrer to First
Amended Complaint, pp. 6-7.)
 
Defendant’s argument is the same.  (See Opposition, pp. 16-18 [claiming the
reliance issue predominates].)
 
The analysis is also the same.  “Section 25504.1 states that any person who materially assists
in the violation of section 25401 with the requisite intent ‘is jointly
and severally liable with any other person liable’ for the violation.”  (Moss v. Kroner (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th
860, 878.)  Again, at this stage,
Winnick’s purported control is undisputed, and reliance is unrequired.  The Court finds the commonality prong
satisfied because the alleged violation of section 25401 is a common question,
and the evidence does not indicate that individual inquiries would be needed to
resolve the intent issue (presumably, Winnick’s intent was uniform vis-à-vis
the Solicitation Package’s uniform statements and/or omissions).
 
Third Cause of Action (Aiding and
Abetting Fraud)
 
The elements of aiding and abetting
fraud are (1) Winnik “knew” Qello was going to commit/committing fraud against
Plaintiff, (2) Winnick “gave substantial assistance or encouragement” to Qello,
and (3) Winnick’s “conduct was a substantial factor in causing harm” to
Plaintiff.  (CACI 3610.)
 
(1/6/23 Ruling Re: Demurrer to First
Amended Complaint, p. 9.)
 
For Winnick to be liable for aiding and
abetting Qello’s alleged fraud, Plaintiff must prove that the alleged fraud
occurred.  This would necessitate “proof
of reliance[.]”  (Motion, p. 13; see also
Reply, p. 4 n.3; Hoffman v. 162 North Wolfe LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th
1178, 1185-1186 [listing fraud elements].)
 
Plaintiff asserts that reliance can be
inferred because the statements and/or omissions in the Solicitation Package
were uniform and material.  (See Motion,
pp. 13-14; see also Reply, p. 4 n.3.)
 
Defendant states:
 
. . . . Documents
produced in this case have already shown [] that the noteholders were
differently situated . . . .
 
For example, it is
clear that Henry Sang and James MacDonald were well-informed about the plan to
spin off the concerts division. [Citation.] Additionally, Doug Maurer was also
always kept in the loop about Brian Lisi and Qello’s plan to sell the concerts
platform (and the particularly onerous licensing fees that came with it) in aid
of monetizing Qello’s technology stack through white label deals. Doug Maurer
was the Qello noteholders’ representative and an investment advisor to many of
them. Thus, he inevitably will have informed at least some – but not
necessarily all – of the noteholders about the direction of the company. It is
also apparent that on January 16, 2017 – eleven days before the Solicitation
Package was distributed – Gary Winnick and others had a conference call with at
least some of the Qello noteholders in which he discussed the very information
the putative class now claims was withheld. 
[Citation.] 
 
(Opposition, p.
17.)
 
Defendant’s evidence consists of seven
emails and an excerpt from Plaintiff’s deposition transcript.  (See Mitts Decl., Exs. 1-8.)  Defendant claims the emails, in particular,
demonstrate that, prior to and/or near the time when Qello distributed the
Solicitation Package to investors, Winnick and some investors discussed the
possibility of “Qello and Winnick . . . sell[ing] Qello Concerts” for
$25,000,000.00 to “pay off a good portion of the debt.”  (Mitts Decl., Ex. 3, p. MACDONALD000901;
see also id. at Exs. 2, 5-7; Opposition, p. 17.)
 
On
balance, the Court disagrees with Defendant because:
 
*
“the Solicitation Package’s failure to discuss the sale of Qello Concerts is
just one of several” statements and/or omissions that Plaintiff alleges were
misleading (Motion, p. 13; see also Reply, p. 5);
 
*
it probably is a merits question whether the emails themselves are misleading
(see Reply, p. 4);
 
*
Plaintiff testified:
 
Q. Okay. At the
time that you extended your note to Qello, were you aware that a sale of Qello
Concerts was contemplated? 
 
A. Not that I
remember.
 
Q. Okay. If you
had been made aware that a sale of Qello Concerts was contemplated, would you
have extended your note?
 
* * *
 
THE WITNESS: Well,
subject to what would it mean to sell Qello, Qello was at the core of why I
invested in the original note, and I would imagine for other noteholders as
well. So to sell the entity on which the note was secured would definitely
raise questions. So I can’t answer the question unless I would know for
what value Qello would be sold for and why. If it was being sold to pay the
noteholders off and there was certainty for that, I would certainly have
evaluated that.
 
(Mitts Decl., Ex.
8, pp. 72-73, emphasis added); and
 
*
Defendant fails to controvert the Solicitation Package’s other alleged
statements and/or omissions.[2]
 
Ultimately,
the Court agrees with Plaintiff’s position. 
California law does permit an inference of reliance.  (See, e.g., Marler v. E.M. Johansing, LLC
(2011) 199 Cal. App. 4th 1450, 1464; see also, e.g., In re Tobacco II Cases,
supra, 46 Cal.4th at 327.)  An
inference appears appropriate, for now, due to the distinctions between
Plaintiff’s case and Cohen and Kaldenbach.  In
Cohen, the putative class included:
 
subscribers who never saw DIRECTV
advertisements or representations of any kind before deciding to purchase the
company's HD services, and subscribers who only saw and/or relied upon
advertisements that contained no mention of technical terms regarding bandwidth
or pixels, and subscribers who purchased DIRECTV HD primarily based on word of
mouth or because they saw DIRECTV's HD in a store or at a friend's or family
member's home. 
 
(Cohen, supra, 178 Cal.App.4th
at 979.)  In Kaldenbach, 
 
Mutual’s training materials and methods
were not uniform, there was no requirement insurance agents provide any written
materials or illustrations to purchasers during a sales presentation, agents
were not required to take Mutual’s training or to utilize any particular sales
method or materials in their sales presentations, and agents were free to
ignore the training and written materials. Mutual had no control over what a
particular independent agent would illustrate for a prospective purchaser, as
the agent could rely on numerous variables including age, risk, motives,
coverage, and desired premium amount.
 
(Kaldenbach, supra, 178 Cal.App.4th
at 851.)  In both cases, the putative
class members stood “in a myriad of different positions” in terms of what they
saw, read, and heard.  (Cohen,
supra, 178 Cal.App.4th at 979.) 
They did not receive a uniform Solicitation Package with uniform
statements and/or omissions.  
 
Typicality
 
“The ‘test
of typicality is whether other members have the same or similar injury, whether
the action is based on conduct which is not unique to the named plaintiffs, and
whether other class members have been injured by the same course of conduct.’”  (Edmon & Karnow, supra, at ¶ 14:29
[quoting Martinez v. Joe’s Crab Shack Holdings (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th
362, 375].)
 
“That
the purported class representative's claims must be ‘typical’ does not mean
they must be identical to the claims of other class members.  It is sufficient that the representative is
similarly situated so that he or she will have the motive to litigate on behalf
of all class members.”  (Id. at ¶
14:29.2.)  “Thus, it is not necessary
that the class representative have personally incurred all of the
damages suffered by each of the other class members.”  (Ibid., emphasis in original.)
 
The
class representative’s claim is atypical “if it is subject to ‘factually
intensive or legally complex unique defenses that pose any significant risk
of diverting [plaintiff’s] attention from class
issues.’”  (Id. at ¶ 14:35.10 [citing Fireside
Bank v. Superior Court (2007) 40 Cal.4th 1069] emphasis in
original.)
 
Defendant
claims Plaintiff is atypical because he had actual notice of Winnick’s plan to
sell Qello Concerts before Qello released the Solicitation Package.  (See Opposition, p. 19.)
 
The
Court disagrees.  Plaintiff and the
putative class received the same Solicitation Package with the same allegedly
misleading statements and/or omissions. 
This makes him typical.
 
Two
points need to be reiterated.  One, the
statement and/or omission regarding Qello Concerts is just one of the many
statements and/or omissions alleged in the FAC. 
Two:
 
*
Plaintiff testified that he did not remember if he knew about the potential
sale of Qello Concerts when he made his investment (see Mitts Decl., Ex. 8, p.
72); and, 
 
*
when defense counsel asked him if he would have still invested if he had known
about the potential sale, Plaintiff said he could not answer the question and
needed more information.  (See id. at Ex.
8, pp. 72-73.)  
 
Adequacy
 
“The
class representative, through qualified counsel, must be capable of ‘vigorously
and tenaciously’ protecting the interests of the class members.”  (Edmon & Karnow, supra, at ¶ 14:36.)
 
“The
prospective class representative must file a declaration stating that he or she
desires to represent the class and understands the fiduciary obligations of
serving[.]”  (Ibid.)  “Counsel’s declaration to that effect will
not suffice.”  (Ibid.)
 
The
Court believes the hearing should be continued. 
Plaintiff’s declaration contains the necessary information (see
MacDonald Decl., ¶¶ 3, 7-11), but Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration does not
address his qualifications to be class counsel or potential conflicts of
interest.  (See Centner Decl., ¶¶ 1-3;
see also Motion, pp. 15-16 [only discussing Plaintiff’s declaration].)  A supplemental declaration from Plaintiff’s
counsel is warranted.
 
Manageability
and Superiority
 
“The
proponent of class certification must demonstrate that the proposed class
action is manageable [citation].”  (Edmon
& Karnow, supra, at ¶ 14:11.10.)  “This
requires the trial court ‘to carefully weigh the respective benefits and
burdens of a class action, and to permit its maintenance only where
substantial benefits will be accrued by both litigants and the courts alike.’  [Citation.]” 
(Ibid., emphasis in original.)  
 
“In certifying a class action,
the court must also conclude that litigation of individual issues, including
those arising from affirmative defenses, can be managed fairly and
efficiently.”  (Duran v. U.S. Bank
Nat. Assn. (2014) 59 Cal. 4th 1, 28-29.) 
“Trial courts must pay careful attention to manageability when deciding
whether to certify a class action.  In
considering whether a class action is a superior device for resolving a
controversy, the manageability of individual issues is just as important as the
existence of common questions uniting the proposed class.”  (Id. at 29.)
 
“A class action is not ‘superior’ where there are numerous and substantial questions affecting each class
member's right to recover, following determination of liability to the class as
a whole.”  (Edmon & Karnow, supra, at
¶ 14:46, emphasis in original.)
 
This prong is unchallenged. 
(See Opposition, pp. 16-20.)
 
In light of the commonality analysis, the Court finds that
Plaintiff meets his burden.  The class method is manageable and superior given the
predominating common issues.
 
Summary
 
The
Court finds all prongs satisfied, except for the adequacy prong.
 
Plaintiff’s
counsel needs to file a supplemental declaration to show adequacy.
 
If
the supplemental declaration ends up being sufficient, the Court intends to
grant certification.
 
 
 

 
 


