  Case Number:  19PSCV00741    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
Plaintiffs’
Application for Default Judgment is DENIED without prejudice, notably
for insufficient evidence. 
 
Background
 
This case arises from an alleged medical scam. Plaintiffs
Yiming Chen, Helen Liu, Yan Yan, Peiyu Chen, Dingzhi Chen, Phoebe Noor
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) allege as follows: Between 2017 and the present,
Defendant Hourong Zhang (“Defendant Zhang”) appeared on various platforms
portraying herself as a “doctor” who was capable of treating many different
types of medical problems. These advertisements were aimed at the Chinese-American
communities within Southern California and focused on the use of Chinese herbal
treatment techniques along with various modern medical machines. (Complaint ¶3.) The
above advertisements were to promote Shangqing Medical Center, which was owned
and controlled by Defendant Zhang. When individuals then sought medical
treatment from Defendant Zhang, every customer’s treatment plan centered around
Defendant Zhang’s findings that the customers had too many toxins in their
bodies and they needed to detox their bodies. (Complaint ¶5.)
Defendant Zhang claimed that her special detoxification treatment would cure
all the customer’s medical problems. Customers were then asked to undergo
several weeks or months of detoxification treatment at the Defendants’ medical
clinic. (Complaint ¶¶5,6.) The main treatment provided by the Defendants
involved smearing a cream concoction on the body and then wrapping the
individual in several blankets until the person sweats out the “toxins” within
his or her body. (Complaint ¶7.) Plaintiff Peiyu Chen suffered severe burns to her
stomach as a result of treatment she sought for her insomnia and gynecological
issues. Plaintiff Helen Liu relied on Defendants’ representations that he could
help with weight loss, but she now needs legitimate treatment for the effects
of Defendant standing on her stomach in the course of said treatment. Plaintiff
Yan Yan sought treatment for her acid reflux, which has remained the same.
Plaintiff Dingzhi Chen relied on Defendants’ representations that they could
help with Plaintiff’s genetic heart, liver, and stomach issues, but his
conditions have remained the same. Plaintiff Yiming Chen relied upon
Defendants’ representations that Defendant Zhang would be able to cure her lung
cancer, which has only worsened and the treatments have allegedly caused severe
ulcerations above her genital region. Plaintiffs allege that these treatments
were unregulated and untested, and that Defendant Zhang is not a licensed
medical doctor nor an herbal medicine doctor. (Complaint ¶8.)  Plaintiffs seek in this case a return of the
money they paid, reimbursement for the work they missed for the fake treatment
and pain/suffering associated with the treatment they received. 
 
On August 20,
2019, Plaintiffs filed suit against Defendants Zhang, Yeqing Lu, Qihe
Zhang, Shanqing Medical Inc., TCMUSA Medical, Inc., Jasmine Garden, Inc., and
Does 1 through 50 for: 
 
1. Intentional Misrepresentation of
Facts/Concealment, 
2. Negligent Misrepresentation of
Facts, 
3. Unfair Business Practice, 
4. False Advertising, 
5. Battery, and
6. Negligence
 
Plaintiff’s Prayer for Relief is as follows: 
 
For compensatory damages according to
proof; Restitution and disgorgement of profit according to proof; Injunctive
relief enjoining Defendants from fraudulent acts alleged in the complaint; for
punitive and treble damages in an amount to punish Defendants and deter others
from engaging in similar misconduct; for attorneys’ fees according to proof;
For the cost of suit incurred herein; and for such other relief as the Court
deems just and proper. (Complaint p. 17.)
 
On October 8, 2021, Defendant Zhang filed a General Denial. 
 
On October 9, 2021, Defendants Shanqing Medical Inc., TCMUSA
Medical Inc. and Jasmin Garden Inc. filed a General Denial. 
 
On November 13, 2021, Plaintiff Phoebe Noor sought dismissal
of herself from the Complaint. 
 
On August 3, 2021, the court (before the Honorable Gloria
White-Brown) filed a Notice of Bench Trial and an OSC re Sanctions for
Defendants failure to appear at multiple status conferences in this matter. 
 
On August 4, 2021, the matter regarding OSC Re: Sanctions
for Defendants' Failure to Appear; Non-Jury Trial were called for hearing. The
court’s Minute Order reflects that Judge Gloria White-Brown struck the general
denials of the corporate Defendants and entered default as to those corporate
defendants on that date. The Minute Order also stated that “[o]n the Court's
own motion, the Order to Show Cause Re: Sanctions for Defendants' Failure to
Appear scheduled for 08/04/2021 is continued to 08/16/21 at 08:30 AM in
Department J at Pomona Courthouse South. The Order to Show Cause is continued
for possible terminating sanctions. On the Court's own motion, the Non-Jury
Trial scheduled for 08/04/2021 is continued to 10/18/21 at 08:30 AM in
Department J at Pomona Courthouse South.”
 
On August 16, 2021, the court struck the general denials of
Defendants Hourang Zhang, Qihe Zhang and Yiming Chen. 
 
On
October 15, 2021, Plaintiffs sought entry of court judgment (CIV-100
form) against Defendants Huorong Zhang, Yeqing Lu, Heqi Zhang, Shanqing
Medical, Inc., Jasmine Garden, Inc. and TCUSA Medical Inc. That same day,
Plaintiffs filed their respective Statement of Damages and Declarations in
support thereof. 
 
On March 22, 2022, the court denied Plaintiffs’ application
for default judgment without prejudice.  
 
On August 30, 2023, Plaintiffs dismissed Yeqing Lu; Qihe Zhang;
Shanqing Medical, Inc; TCMUSA Medical Inc. and Jasmin Garden, Inc. 
 
On September 1, 2023, the court denied another of
Plaintiffs’ applications for default judgment.
 
On October 20, 2023, the court denied another of Plaintiffs’
applications for default judgment but continued the hearing pursuant to an oral
request by Plaintiff’s Counsel. 
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiffs seek entry of default judgment against Defendant Hourong
Zhang in the amount of $471,896.00.[1] 
 
Previously,
the court denied the application for insufficient evidence. The defect with
insufficient evidence remains, drawing into question the credibility of the
claims. 
 
1.    
Wages
 
First, all Plaintiffs seek compensation for lost wages, but
none offer evidence of such (e.g., declaration stating where they work, their wage/salary,
W2 forms, paystubs, etc.).[2]
Therefore, absent admissible evidence, none are entitled to compensation for
lost wages. 
 
2.    
Pain and Suffering 
 
Second, they all seek large sums for pain and suffering. While
“[t]he inquiry is inherently subjective and not easily amenable to concreate
measurement” (Pearly v. City of Los Angeles (2019) 36 Cal.App.5th 475,
491), Plaintiffs have offered no explanation as to how they calculated their
noneconomic damages. 
 
 
3.     Receipts/Bank
Statements/Checks 
 
Third, Plaintiffs’ declarations provide identical documentation.
Effectively, the court cannot ascertain which Plaintiff made which payment(s).[3] Even if the receipts, checks,
and/or bank statements were admissible evidence, they contradict the
allegations and declarations. For example, some Plaintiffs explain that
they were treated for a few weeks, but the receipts span a few years. (See
e.g., Chen Decl., p. 2 [treated for three weeks] but one receipt dated 11/15/18
(p. 89 of 126 of PDF) and another receipt dated 2/19/2019 (p. 106 of 126 of
PDF); from 11/15/18 to 2/19/2019 is more than a few weeks.) 
 
Should Plaintiffs file a new application for
default judgment, each Plaintiff’s declaration/filing should bear only the
receipts/bank statements relevant to that Plaintiff with a calculation
of the monies paid
(e.g., [“Attached is Ex. A dated [insert date] which shows X amount paid; Ex. B
shows Y amount paid; Ex. C shows Z amount paid . . . X + Y + Z = total amount I,
[insert Plaintiff’s name] paid [insert defaulting defendant’s name].”].) 
 
4.    
Declarations
 
Fourth, there is inconsistency with the treatments received.
For example, both Yan Yan and Dinghzi Chen went in for a detox treatment but
received hysterectomies. Importantly, as the complaint does not allege that the
latter was advertised nor received, it is unclear as to the relevance of the
procedure. 
 
Conclusion
 
All in all, while a defendant’s failure to answer is a
concession of the truth of the allegations, Plaintiffs must provide evidence
to support their requested damages. (See Kim v. Westmoore Partners, Inc. (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 267, 272-286.) Based on the foregoing, the application is
again denied without prejudice.  
 


