 Case Number:  22PSCV00883    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
Defendant
Martin Chappell’s MOTION TO APPOINT APPRAISER PURSUANT TO UNIFORM PARTITION OF
HEIRS PROPERTY ACT AND TO APPOINT REFEREE TO DETERMINE OFFSETS AFTER THE
APPRAISAL IS OBTAINED is GRANTED. 
 
Background
 
This is a
real property case. Plaintiff EDWARD CHAPPELL alleges the following against
Defendants LILLIAN CHAPPELL (“Lillian”)[1]
and MARTIN CHAPPELL (“Martin”): Plaintiff and Lillian were married, and Martin
is their son. Defendant Martin resides with Plaintiff and is committing waste.
Plaintiff seeks partition by sale because Defendants refuses to buy out
Plaintiff's interest in the real property. (Complaint p. 3.)[2]

 
On August 18,
2022, Plaintiff filed the instant action for partition.
 
On October
12, 2022, Defendant Martin filed his answer.
 
On October
23, 2023, Defendant filed the instant motion.
 
On October
25, 2023, the court held a Status Conference Re: Mediation; Order to Show Cause
Re: Defendant's Failure to Appear on June 26, 2023; Order to Show Cause Re: Why
the Court Should Not Strike Defendant's Answer. The minute order, states, in
pertinent part, that the OSCs were discharged and that “Plaintiff Counsel's
oral motion for Court sponsored mediation through Mediator John Irwin is heard
and GRANTED.”
Legal
Standard
 
Defendant
brings forth the motion under the Uniform Partition of Heirs Property Act
(“Act”), former Code of Civil Procedure § 874.311 et seq. (Motion p. 5.) 
 
The Act governs actions filed on or after January 1,
2022,[3] for
the partition of real property that is
"heirs property" as
defined in the Act. According to Civil Code of
Procedure section 874.312, subdivision (e), “heirs property" means real property held in tenancy
in common which satisfies all the following requirements as of the filing of a
partition action: 
 
(1) There is no agreement binding all
the cotenants which governs the partition of the property.
(2) One or more of the cotenants
acquired title from a relative, whether living or deceased.
(3) Any of the following applies: 20%
or more of the interests are held by cotenants who are relatives; 20% or more
of the interests are held by an individual who acquired title from a relative,
whether living or deceased; or 20% or more of the cotenants are relatives.
 
When partition is ordered, the court
may apportion the costs of partition, including an appraisal fee, except that
the court cannot apportion the costs of partition to any party that opposes the
partition unless doing so is equitable and consistent with the purposes of the
Act. (Civ. Proc.
Code, § 874.321.5.) 
 
Discussion
 
Martin seeks to buy out
Plaintiff’s interest and have a referee appointed to determine offsets.
 
A.     Heirs Property 
 
First, there is no agreement in
record binding the co-owners of the Property which governs the partition of the
Property. (Decl. Martin Chappell, p. 10 of 61 of PDF.) 
 
Second, the
property is “heirs property” because the 2002 grant deed shows that the
property is titled in the names of Plaintiff and Lillian Chappell, husband and
wife, and their son, Martin Chappell. (Verified Complaint, see also Decl.
Talkov, Ex. 1.) On October 8, 2022, Lillian Chappell passed away, and an
affidavit of death of joint tenant was recorded on November 14, 2022, leaving
title in the names of Edward Chappell and Martin Chappell. (Decl. Talkov, Ex.
6.) Thus, as both Plaintiff and Martin acquired title from Lillian (a relative,
i.e., related by blood pursuant to form Code Civ. Proc. § 874.312(i)), the
second prong is satisfied. 
 
Third, according to Counsel Talkov’s declaration, Plaintiff
and Martin each have a 50% interest in the property. (Motion p. 15 of 61 of
PDF.) Thus, more than 20% of the interests are held by cotenants
(Plaintiff and Martin) who are relatives (father and son). 
 
Therefore, this is “heirs property.”  
 
B.    
Appointing an Appraiser 
 
Next, to determine the value of the property, Martin
requests that this Court follow the requirement in the Act for the
“appoint[ment of] a disinterested real estate appraiser licensed in the State
of California to determine the fair market value of the property assuming sole
ownership of the fee simple estate.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 874.316(d).) 
 
Here, Martin proposes Kevin J. Howell, AL025985. The
appraiser has no relationship with the parties nor Martin’s counsel. (Decl.
Talkov, ¶ 2.) 
 
Thus, Howell is appointed as the appraiser. 
 
C.   
Martin Elects to Purchase Plaintiff’s Interest
 
Martin seeks to exercise the right of first refusal. 
 
The Act provides that: “If any cotenant requested partition
by sale, the court shall, after the determination of value under Section
874.316, send notice to the parties that any cotenant except a cotenant
that requested partition by sale may buy all the interests of the cotenants
that requested partition by sale.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 874.317(a), emphasis
added.) 
 
Here, as Plaintiff filed an action for partition by sale,
not Martin, then Martin may buy Plaintiff’s interest. 
 
Thus, Martin may buy all the interests of Plaintiff. (Motion
p. 7, citing See Code Civ. Proc. § 874.317(b).) 
 
D.   
Referee 
 
Finally, once the value is determined and partition is to
ensue, a referee is to be appointed. 
 
Here, per Martin’s request, the court appoints Matthew L.
Taylor to act as the referee in this case. (Motion p. 8.) The referee will
determine whether Martin is entitled to offsets for his overpayment of
mortgage, taxes, and insurance for the Property from 2013 through the present
and his pay off of the mortgage on the Property on October 4, 2010, in the sum
of $47,686.78 and whether Martin should receive a setoff as a party purchaser
of 50%. (Code. Civ. Proc. § 873.060 [“The referee may perform any acts necessary
to exercise the authority conferred by this title or by order of the court.”].)

 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the motion is granted. 
 
 


