  Case Number:  22STCV09612    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



GARY HUERTA,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
MICHAEL SIMMS, et al., 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV09612




Hearing Date:


April 12, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:  
 
MOTION
  FOR JUDICIALLY SUPERVISED DISSOLUTION OF PLANT RANCH, INC. AND TO APPOINT
  APPRAISER TO SELL PLANT RANCH, INC.; IN THE ALTERNATIVE, MOTION TO APPOINT
  RECEIVER TO SELL PLANT RANCH




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION


 



            
 
Background
On March 18, 2022,
Plaintiff Gary Huerta (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants
Michael Simms (“Simms”), Carmen Santillan (“Santillan”), Plant Ranch, Inc.
(“Plant Ranch”), and Cena Kitchen, LLC. 
Plaintiff filed the
operative Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) on August 29, 2023, alleging causes
of action for (1) constructive fraud, (2) accounting, (3) conversion, (4)
breach of the operating agreement, (5) breach of fiduciary duty, (6)
declaratory relief, and (7) dissolution. 
Plaintiff now moves “for
an order for judicially supervised dissolution of Defendant Plant Ranch…” Simms and Santillan (jointly,
“Defendants”), filed a “qualified” opposition to the motion. 
Request for Judicial Notice 
The Court grants Defendants’ request for judicial notice. 
Discussion 
Plaintiff’s notice of
motion states that Plaintiff moves “pursuant to California
Corporations Code, Sections 1800, et seq. and Code
of Civil Procedure Section 564, for an order for judicially supervised
dissolution of Defendant Plant Ranch…” (Notice of Motion at pp. 1:28-2:2.) Plaintiff
further asserts that “[i]n the alternative, the Court should appoint a receiver
to sell Plant Ranch or its assets.” (Mot. at p. 3:19.) 
“A court may order the dissolution of a corporation against its will
(i.e., involuntarily) under Corps.C. § 1800 et seq…”
(Friedman et al., Cal. Practice Guide: Corporations (The Rutter Group 2023) ¶ 8:791.)
Pursuant to Corporations Code section 1804, “[a]fter
hearing the court may decree a winding up and dissolution of the corporation if
cause therefor is shown or, with or without winding up and dissolution, may
make such orders and decrees and issue such injunctions in the case as justice
and equity require.”

Pursuant to Corporations Code section 1805,
subdivision (a), “[i]nvoluntary proceedings for winding up a
corporation commence when the order for winding up is entered under Section 1804.” Pursuant to Corporations Code section 1805, subdivision (b), “[w]hen an involuntary proceeding for winding up has
commenced, the board shall conduct the winding up of the affairs of the
corporation, subject to the supervision of the court, unless other persons are
appointed by the court, on good cause shown, to conduct the winding up. The
directors or such other persons may, subject to any restrictions imposed by the
court, exercise all their powers through the executive officers without any
order of court.” 
In addition, pursuant to Corporations Code section 1806, “[w]hen an involuntary
proceeding for winding up has been commenced, the jurisdiction of the court
includes:
 
(a) The requirement of the proof of
all claims and demands against the corporation, whether due or not yet due,
contingent, unliquidated or sounding only in damages, and the barring from
participation of creditors and claimants failing to make and present claims and
proof as required by any order.
 
(b) The determination or compromise
of all claims of every nature against the corporation or any of its property,
and the determination of the amount of money or assets required to be retained
to pay or provide for the payment of claims.
 
(c) The determination of the rights
of shareholders and of all classes of shareholders in and to the assets of the
corporation.
 
(d) The presentation and filing of
intermediate and final accounts of the directors or other persons appointed to
conduct the winding up and hearing thereon, the allowance, disallowance or
settlement thereof and the discharge of the directors or such other persons
from their duties and liabilities.
 
(e) The appointment of a
commissioner to hear and determine any or all matters, with such power or
authority as the court may deem proper.
 
(f) The filling of any vacancies on
the board which the directors or shareholders are unable to fill.
 
(g) The removal of any director if
it appears that the director has been guilty of dishonesty, misconduct, neglect
or abuse of trust in conducting the winding up or if the director is unable to
act. The court may order an election to fill the vacancy so caused, and may
enjoin, for such time as it considers proper, the reelection of the director so
removed; or the court, in lieu of ordering an election, may appoint a director
to fill the vacancy caused by such removal. Any director so appointed by the
court shall serve until the next annual meeting of shareholders or until a
successor is elected or appointed.
 
(h) Staying the prosecution of any
suit, proceeding or action against the corporation and requiring the parties to
present and prove their claims in the manner required of other creditors.
 
(i) The determination of whether
adequate provision has been made for payment or satisfaction of all debts and
liabilities not actually paid.
 
(j) The making of orders for the
withdrawal or termination of proceedings to wind up and dissolve, subject to
conditions for the protection of shareholders and creditors.
 
(k) The making of an order, upon
the allowance or settlement of the final accounts of the directors or such
other persons, that the corporation has been duly wound up and is dissolved.
Upon the making of such order, the corporate existence shall cease except for
purposes of further winding up if needed.
 
(l) The making of orders for the
bringing in of new parties as the court deems proper for the determination of
all questions and matters.” 
The Court notes that
pursuant to Corporations Code section 1800,
subdivision (b), “[t]he grounds for involuntary dissolution are
that:
 
(1) The
corporation has abandoned its business for more than one year.
 
(2) The
corporation has an even number of directors who are equally divided and cannot
agree as to the management of its affairs, so that its business can no longer
be conducted to advantage or so that there is danger that its property and
business will be impaired or lost, and the holders of the voting shares of the
corporation are so divided into factions that they cannot elect a board
consisting of an uneven number.
 
(3) There is
internal dissension and two or more factions of shareholders in the corporation
are so deadlocked that its business can no longer be conducted with advantage
to its shareholders or the shareholders have failed at two consecutive annual
meetings at which all voting power was exercised, to elect successors to
directors whose terms have expired or would have expired upon election of their
successors.
 
(4) Those in
control of the corporation have been guilty of or have knowingly countenanced
persistent and pervasive fraud, mismanagement or abuse of authority or
persistent unfairness toward any shareholders or its property is being
misapplied or wasted by its directors or officers.
 
(5) In the case of
any corporation with 35 or fewer shareholders (determined as provided in Section 605), liquidation is reasonably necessary for
the protection of the rights or interests of the complaining shareholder or
shareholders.
 
(6) The period for
which the corporation was formed has terminated without extension of such
period.” 
As an initial matter, although Plaintiff
moves “pursuant to California Corporations Code,
Sections 1800, et seq…for an order for judicially supervised dissolution of
Defendant Plant Ranch, Inc.,” (Not. of Mot. at pp. 1:28-2:2), Plaintiff’s memorandum
of points and authorities in support of the motion still does not appear to
discuss Corporations Code section 1800, subdivision (b) or apply any of the specific grounds set
forth in this provision to the facts here. 
Plaintiff previously moved for an
order for the judicially supervised dissolution of Plant Ranch, and such motion
was denied without prejudice. (See Court’s October 25, 2023 minute
order.) The Court’s October 25, 2023 minute order on Plaintiff’s previous
motion also provides that “Plaintiff’s memorandum of points and authorities in
support of the motion does not appear to discuss Corporations
Code section 1800, subdivision (b) or apply any of the specific grounds set
forth in this provision to the facts here.” (October 25, 2023 Minute Order, p.
11.) 
Plaintiff also asserts in the motion that “in light of the two offers
to purchase Plant Ranch, the Court should set up a date to have the company
sold and notice be provided to all parties and the public of the sale at a time
and date convenient for the Court.” (Mot. at p. 4:25-27.) In addition,
Plaintiff asserts in the conclusion section of the motion that
“Plaintiff…petitions the Court to allow him to bid on Plant Ranch’s assets.”
(Mot. at p. 6:7-8.) Plaintiff does not appear to cite to any legal authority in
support of these requests. In their qualified opposition, Defendants state that
they “are not aware of, and Plaintiff does [sic] cite to any authority for the
proposition that ‘the interests of fairness and justice’ would be served by the
Court selling and/or auctioning Plant Ranch—particularly to Plaintiff, i.e.,
the very person seeking its dissolution.” (Opp’n at p. 4:19-21.) 
Plaintiff also asserts that “in the alternative, the
Court should appoint a receiver to oversee the dissolution.” (Mot. at p.
5:1-2.) Plaintiff cites to Code of Civil Procedure
section 564, subdivisions (b)(5), (b)(6), and (b)(9) which provide that “[a] receiver may be appointed by the court in which an
action or proceeding is pending, or by a judge of that court, in the following
cases:…(5) Where a corporation has been dissolved, as provided in Section 565[1]. (6) Where a corporation is insolvent, or in
imminent danger of insolvency, or has forfeited its corporate rights…(9) In all other cases where necessary to preserve the property or rights
of any party.” 
As an initial matter, Plaintiff does not show that Plant
Ranch has been dissolved as provided in Code of Civil Procedure section 565. It is thus unclear why Plaintiff
cites to Code of Civil Procedure section 564,
subdivision (b)(5). In addition, Plaintiff does not appear to assert or
demonstrate that Plant Ranch is “insolvent, or in imminent danger of insolvency, or has
forfeited its corporate rights.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 564, subd. (b)(6).) Thus,
it is also unclear why Plaintiff cites to Code of Civil
Procedure section 564, subdivision (b)(6). 
In addition, in the qualified opposition, Defendants
cite to Golden State Glass Corp. v. Superior Court of Los Angeles
County (1939) 13 Cal.2d 384, 393, where the California Supreme Court noted as
follows:
 
“Section 564 of the Code of Civil
Procedure vests jurisdiction in the superior court to appoint receivers under certain
enumerated conditions. Authority to act, if it exists under the facts presented
here, may be found only in subdivision 7 of that section which confers the
power In all other cases where receivers have heretofore been appointed by the
usages of courts of
equity. This is a broad provision which vests a large measure of
discretion in the trial court, and in the
absence of a clear showing of an abuse of that discretion, its action in either
appointing or refusing to appoint a receiver will be upheld. However, because of the
drastic character of the remedy, the discretion is not an entirely uncontrolled
one but must be exercised with due regard for the facts in a particular case.
Especially is this true where serious injury to the name and good will of a
solvent going concern may result from the appointment of a receiver.
Ordinarily, if there is any other remedy, less severe in its results, which
will adequately protect the rights of the parties, a court should not take property out of the hands of its owners.”
(Internal quotations omitted.) 
Defendants
assert that “[h]ere, Plaintiff already has proposed the ‘other
[available] remedy,’ i.e., a judicially-supervised winding up and dissolution
of Plant Ranch.” (Opp’n at p. 6:6-7.) Indeed, Plaintiff’s motion appears to
acknowledge that there is another remedy, i.e., the 
requested judicially supervised dissolution of Plant Ranch. 
Lastly, as noted in the
Court’s October 25, 2023 minute order on Plaintiff’s previous motion, on November
14, 2022, the Court issued an Order on Defendants’ motion to “(1) stay the
dissolution action; and (2) appoint appraisers and order buyout pursuant to Corp. Code § 17707.03(c) and Operating Agreement of
Cena Kitchen, LLC.” The Court’s Order provides, inter alia, that “Defendants’ motion is granted in part. Discovery and further proceedings are stayed as to
Plaintiff’s seventh cause of action
for dissolution.” (November 14, 2022 Order at p. 9:21-22.) Neither
Plaintiff nor Defendants appear to discuss the impact of the November 14, 2022
Order on the instant motion.  
 
Conclusion
In light of the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion
is denied. 
Defendants are ordered to give notice of this Order.  
 
DATED:  April 12, 2024                                ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


