  Case Number:  23STCV27433    Hearing Date:   May 28, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Tuesday, May 28, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   23STCV27433
CASE NAME:                        James Borrelli v. Sitcoproperties, Inc, et al. 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendants Sitcoproperties,
Inc.; Simicha Borenstein aka Sam Borenstein; LA Housing Outreach LLC 
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiff James Borrelli
TRIAL DATE:                         23 July 2024
PROOF
OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Motion to Strike Punitive
Damages from First Amended Complaint
OPPOSITION:                        15 May 2024 
REPLY:                                  20 May 2024
 
TENTATIVE:
                        Defendants’
motion to strike punitive damages from the FAC is denied. Moving parties to
give notice.  

                                                                                    

 
Background
 
On
November 8, 2023, James Borrelli (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against
Sitcoproperties, Inc. (“Sitco Properties”); Simicha Borenstein aka Sam
Borenstein (“Borenstein”); LA Housing Outreach LLC (“LA Housing”),
(collectively “Defendants); and Does 1 to 10. 
 
The
Complaint alleges seven causes of action: (1) declaratory relief; and for
damages based on: (2) violation of the Fair Employment and Housing Act, (3)
violation of the Disabled Persons Act, (4) violation of the Elder Abuse and Dependent
Adult Civil Protection Act, (5) violation the Los Angeles Tenant Harassment Ordinance,
(6) violation of the Unfair Competition Law, and (7) negligence. 
 
On
March 13, 2024, the court granted the Defendants’ motion to strike punitive
damages from the Complaint with leave to amend. 
 
On
March 28, 2024, the Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) alleging the same seven causes of action. 
 
Defendants
now again move to strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages in the FAC. Plaintiff
oppose the Motion. The matter is now before the court. 
 
motion to strike[1]
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.
(CCP § 435(b)(1); CRC, rule 3.1322(b).) The court may, upon a motion or at any
time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP § 436(a)-(b); Stafford
v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not
essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be
stricken out or disregarded”].)¿¿¿¿ 
  
“Where the defect raised by a motion to strike or by demurrer
is reasonably capable of cure, leave to amend is routinely and liberally
granted to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the defect in question.” (CLD
Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.)
The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿¿¿ 
 
II.        Motion to
Strike
 
Defendants move to strike the following from Plaintiff’s
Complaint: 
 
1)    
Page 10, line 12: “Mr. Borrelli is entitled to
punitive damages under Civil Code section 3294”
 
2)    
Page 10, line 13-15: “Defendants’ actions
against Mr. Borrelli, considering his age and serious health problems, are
malicious in that they are willful and evidence a conscious disregard for his
rights under FEHA to be granted a reasonable accommodation of his disability.”
 
3)    
Page 10, lines 15-18: “Therefore, Defendants
should be liable for punitive damages to make an example out of them and to
prevent them from discriminating against those members of the public who come
in contact with Defendants in their capacities as landlords and real estate
licensees or, in this case, non-licensees.”
 
4)    
Page 12, lines 10-14: “Defendants acted with
malice, by repeatedly demanding that Mr. Borrelli take a buy-out and move out
of the Apartment or, if he will not do so, prepare to lose his parking and his
sanity during two years of construction at the Building, even though they are
aware of Mr. Borrelli’s age, his disabilities, and their legal obligations to
accommodate Mr. Borrelli’s disabilities.”
 
5)    
Page 12, lines 17-20: “All of Defendants’ acts
alleged in this Complaint were undertaken by Defendants with a clear profit
motive and with a willful and conscious disregard of Mr. Borrelli’s rights,
knowing that his conduct was likely to be harmful to Mr. Borrelli. Therefore,
Defendants are liable to Mr. Borrelli for punitive damages.”
 
6)    
Page 15, line 19: “For punitive damages as
authorized by Civil Code section 3294”
 
7)    
Page 16, lines 1-2: “For punitive damages
pursuant to Civil Code section 3294, in an amount according to proof at trial.”
 
Defendants assert the FAC fails to allege malice, fraud, or
oppression toward Plaintiff with the requisite specificity to support a claim
for punitive damages. 
 
To state a claim for punitive damages under Civ.
Code § 3294, a plaintiff must allege specific facts showing that the defendant
has been guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud. (Smith v. Superior Court
(1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1042.)¿ The basis for punitive damages must be
pled with specificity; conclusory allegations devoid of any factual assertions
are insufficient. (Ibid.)¿¿“Malice” is defined in Civ. Code § 3294
(c)(1) as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury” or
“despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” “Oppression” is defined
as “despicable conduct subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Civ. Code § 3294(c)(2).) The
term “despicable” has been defined in the case law as actions that are “base,”
“vile,” or “contemptible.” (Shade Foods, Inc. v. Innovative Products Sales
& Marketing, Inc. (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 847, 891.) Fraud means “an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”
(Civ. Code § 3294(c)(3).)
 
Plaintiff is 75 years old and has been a tenant in
Apartment 19 at the residential building complex located at 12520
Pacific Avenue in Los Angeles (the “Building”) since 2002. (FAC ¶¶ 4, 9, 10,
Ex. A.) The Apartment is rent controlled, and Plaintiff’s tenancy is protected
by the Los Angeles Rent Stabilization Ordinance (“LARSO”), meaning Plaintiff
cannot be evicted except for good cause. (FAC ¶ 11.) In March 2023, Defendant LA
Housing Outreach, LLC (“LA Housing”) purchased the Building. (FAC ¶ 3.) Defendant Simcha Bornstein aka Sam
Bornstein (“Bornstein”) acted as the property manager for Defendant
Sitcoproperties, Inc. dba as Sitco Properties (“Sitco Properties”). (FAC
¶¶ 2, 3.) 
 
LA
Housing hired Sitco Properties and Borenstein to act as managers for the Building.
(FAC ¶¶ 4, 6.) Bornstein is the CEO, CFO, and sole Director of Sitco
Properties. Saman Mostadim (“Mostadim “) and Jonathan Sedaghat (“Sedaghat”)
are the sole members and managers of LA Housing. (FAC ¶ 14.) Mostadim and
Sedaghat are also the sole members and directors of Starkwood, Inc.
(“Starkwood”) which also manages the building along with Sitco Properties and
Bornstein. (FAC ¶ 14.) The FAC alleges that Mostadim and Sedaghat “are the
persons who decided to hire Sitco Properties and Mr. Bornstein for the express
purpose of ousting as many tenants as possible from the Building to increase
its value through ‘re-tenanting’ the Building.” (FAC ¶ 14.) In this manner, Mostadim
and Sedaghat authorized and ratified  Bornstein’s
conduct. (FAC ¶¶ 14, 15.) The FAC alleges that after LA Housing purchased the
building, Bornstein began to engage in an aggressive campaign to remove the
prior tenants from the Building in order to re-let the apartments for a higher
rental amount. (FAC ¶ 14, 16.) 
 
In March
2023 Bornstein pushed “cash for keys” offers to induce tenants to vacate their
apartments by representing that “the owner plans to make ‘major renovations’ so
incredibly disruptive that Defendants would be giving tenants a way to avoid
the trouble of living through it all.” (FAC ¶ 16.) On March 6, 2023, Bornstein went
to  Plaintiff’s apartment to inform him
that the Building would be demolished. On May 18, 2023, Bornstein again went to
Plaintiff’s apartment to tell him that the Building would undergo “complete renovations.”
(FAC ¶ 18.) 
 
In the
first week of June 2023, Bornstein told Plaintiff and other tenants that the
Building would “undergo major renovations that would take two years and be
intrusive and disruptive.” (FAC ¶ 19.) Bornstein told the tenants that the
parking would be taken away and offered some tenants $9,000.00 to move out.
(FAC ¶ 19.) 
 
On June
28, 2023, Bornstein again told Plaintiff that the Building would undergo major
renovations that “would take years and be intrusive and disruptive to the
tenants.” (FAC ¶ 20.) On August 21, 2023, Bornstein called
Plaintiff to remind him that the Building would undergo major renovations that
“would take years and be intrusive and disruptive to the tenants.” (FAC ¶ 22.) That
same day, Bornstein in writing offered to buy Plaintiff out of his tenancy for
$35,000.00. (FAC ¶ 25.) 
 
Bornstein
wrote that construction would start in the next few months and would take about
1.5 to 2 years to complete. (FAC ¶ 25.) Permits were expected to be approved by
the end of the year with construction set to begin in December 2023. (FAC ¶
25.) Mr. Bornstein told Plaintiff that when construction began, including the
building of new apartments in the parking lot, parking would not be available
then or after the completion of construction. (FAC ¶ 25.) 
 
Plaintiff
told Bornstein that he “looked into it” and landlords had not pulled permits
for any construction. (FAC ¶ 22.) On October 13, 2024, Bornstein told the
tenants by text that the owners of the Building had “changed direction” and
were instead moving homeless people into the vacant units. (FAC ¶ 29.) Bornstein
also stated that “ownership is willing to offer $45,000 for a relocation
and 4 months.” (FAC ¶ 29.) 
 
Despite
construction not starting, on October 18, 2023, Defendants closed off the
parking area and told tenants that new apartments would be put in place of the
parking spaces. (FAC ¶¶ 30, 31.) As reasonable accommodation for his disability,
Plaintiff requested to keep his parking space, but Defendants refused his
request, even though Plaintiff’s right to a parking space was part of his
Lease. (FAC ¶¶ 32, 36, Ex. A.) Plaintiff asserts that to date parking remains
closed off despite no construction occurring. (FAC ¶¶ 33, 37.) Plaintiff also asserts
that to date, Defendant has not applied for any permits for renovations, and
the purported demolition and “major renovations” touted by Bornstein were false
and done with the intent to induce other tenants, like Plaintiff, to give up
the rent-stabilized tenancies. (FAC ¶ 34.) 
 
Based on
the facts above, the court finds that Plaintiff has pled sufficient facts to
show malice and fraud. (Civ. Code, § 3294(c).) Despite Plaintiff confirming
that no construction or demolition would take place, and no construction
occurring to date, Bornstein at the direction or with the ratification of the
other Defendants, engaged in conduct that can deemed “harassing” by repeatedly
telling Plaintiff that major construction and/or demotion of the Building would
occur despite the statement being false as no permits were sought and no
construction occurred. 
 
Bornstein
knew Plaintiff was ill and could not afford to move out, but Bornstein continued
to repeatedly misrepresent that major construction would occur that would be
disruptive, causing Plaintiff distress and resulting in Plaintiff’s physician
reporting Bornstein to Adult Protective Services due to the stress he was
causing Plaintiff. (FAC ¶¶ 18, 20, 23.) Despite no construction taking place,
Bornstein cut off Plaintiff’s and the other tenants' access to parking under
the false pretext that construction would begin. (FAC ¶¶ 31, 36.) By depriving
Plaintiff of his parking space, Defendant violated the lease agreement and
denied Plaintiff’s request for reasonable accommodation. (FAC ¶¶ 31, 37.) Bornstein
intentionally harassed Plaintiff with the intent of getting Plaintiff to leave his
rent-controlled apartment so that Defendants could “re-tenant” the Building for
an increased rental value. (FAC ¶¶ 11, 14.) Such conduct was part of
Defendant’s campaign to force Plaintiff to leave his rent-controlled apartment.
(FAC ¶ 56.) The other Defendants’ managing agents ratified such conduct by
hiring Bornstein for the express purpose of ousting tenants. (FAC ¶ 14.) Bornstein’s
conduct violated various laws and ordinances, including the Los Angeles Anti-Harassment
Ordinance. (LA Muni. Code, § 45.33.) 
 
Based on the facts above, the
court finds that Plaintiff has pled sufficient facts to support a claim for
punitive damages. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants’ motion to strike
punitive damages from the FAC is denied. Moving parties to give notice.
 


