 Case Number:  24STLC03177    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  26 Gonzalez
v. Salcedo, et al.DEMURRER
(CCP § 430.10, et seq.)
 

 
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant
Alejandro Ibarra’s Demurrer to the Complaint is OVERRULED AS TO THE FIRST CAUSE
OF ACTION AND SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND AS TO THE SECOND CAUSE OF
ACTION. DEFENDANT ALEJANDRO IBARRA IS TO FILE AND SERVE AN ANSWER TO THE
COMPLAINT WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.
 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 

On May 2, 2024, Plaintiff Antonio
Gonzalez (“Plaintiff”) filed the Complaint in this action against Defendants Ruben
Salcedo (“Defendant Salcedo”), Alejandro Ibarra (“Defendant Ibarra”), and
Country Burger, Inc. (“Defendant Country Burger”). On October 8, 2024,
Defendant Ibarra filed the instant Demurrer to the Complaint. No opposition has
been filed to date.  
 
 
 
Discussion
 
Allegations
in the Complaint
 
On
March 24, 2023, Plaintiff lent Defendants $33,000.00 pursuant to a written
promissory note. (Compl., ¶3 and Exh. A.) Defendants agreed to repay the loan
in monthly installments of $5,500.00 until it was fully repaid. (Ibid.)
At the time they obtained the loan, Defendants knew Defendant Country Burger
was so financially unstable and behind on its bills that it was unable to
maintain ongoing operations. (Id. at ¶4.) Despite this, Defendants
misrepresented Defendant Country Burger’s financial health to Plaintiff to
induce him to provide the loan under false pretenses. (Id. at ¶5.) Defendants
have failed to make the monthly payments agreed upon, in breach of the
promissory note, causing Plaintiff damages of $33,000.00. (Id. at ¶¶6,
8-9.) Defendants intentionally misrepresented Defendant Country Burger’s
financial status to induce Plaintiff to lend them money. (Id. at ¶11.) Plaintiff
relied on these misrepresentations to his detriment and as a result, has been
damaged in the amount of $33,000.00. (Id. at ¶12.) 
 
Demurrer
to the Complaint
 
The Complaint alleges causes of
action for (1) Breach
of Contract; and (2) Fraud. The Demurrer is accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration as required by Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41. (Demurrer, Quadros Decl., ¶¶3-5 and Exh. 2.) Defendant
Ibarra demurs on the grounds that the Complaint fails to allege facts
sufficient to state a cause of action and for uncertainty. (Citing Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e), (f).) Special demurrers, however, are not
permitted in the limited jurisdiction court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 92, subd,
(c).) Therefore, the Court will not consider the demurrer for uncertainty.  
 
The demurrer is first brought as
to the breach of contract cause of action on the grounds that Defendant Ibarra
is not a party to, or signatory of, the promissory note upon which the entire
action is based. A breach of contract claim must plead (1) the existence of a
contract; (2) plaintiff’s performance of the contract or excuse for
nonperformance; defendant's breach; and (4) resulting damage. (Harris v.
Rudin, Richman & Appel (1997) 74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307). Defendant
Ibarra contends there is no contract between themselves and Plaintiff. A review
of the promissory note, however, shows that it names “Ruben Salcedo” and
“Alejandro Ibarra Herrera” as the borrowers. (Compl., Exh. A.) Defendant
Ibarra’s contention that they are not a party to the promissory note,
therefore, is incorrect. The demurrer to the first cause of action is
overruled.
 
Defendant Ibarra demurs to the
second cause of for fraud for failure to meet the strict pleading requirements,
and on the grounds that they are not a party to the promissory note. For the
strict pleading requirements, the demurrer cites Cooper v. Leslie Salt
Company (1969) 70 Cal.2d 627, which holds that “fraud is never
presumed—facts constituting fraud must be specifically pleaded.” (Cooper v.
Leslie Salt Company (1969) 70 Cal.2d 627, 636.) The Complaint does not
allege fraud with specificity. It simply alleges that Defendants misrepresented
Defendant Country Burger’s financial health to Plaintiff. Which Defendants made
these misrepresentations, when the misrepresentations were made, and in what
format and location, are all necessary details that missing from the pleading. The
demurrer to the second cause of action, therefore, is sustained.
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the complainant to
show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) As Plaintiff has not opposed the
demurrer or otherwise shown that an amendment to the second cause of action is
possible, leave to amend is denied.
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant
Alejandro Ibarra’s Demurrer to the Complaint is OVERRULED AS TO THE FIRST CAUSE
OF ACTION AND SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND AS TO THE SECOND CAUSE OF ACTION.
DEFENDANT ALEJANDRO IBARRA IS TO FILE AND SERVE AN ANSWER TO THE COMPLAINT
WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.
 
 
Court clerk to give notice. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 