  Case Number:  23CHCV02186    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  F51 
APRIL 26,
2024
 

MOTION FOR TERMINATING
SANCTIONS

Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 23CHCV02186

¿ 
Motion Filed: 3/21/24
¿ 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Marlene
Moretti (“Plaintiff”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendants/Cross-Complainants Ruben
Romero; and Del Sur Corporation dba Camino Real Mortgage Bankers (collectively,
“Defendants”)
NOTICE: OK¿
¿ 
RELIEF REQUESTED: A terminating
sanction dismissing or striking Defendants’ answer and cross-complaint, and
monetary sanctions against Defendants and their counsel in the amount of $4,560.00.
¿ 
TENTATIVE RULING: The motion is granted in part. The Court imposes $900.00 in
monetary sanctions against Defendants and/or their counsel.
 
Plaintiff is
reminded to review the 5/3/19 First Amended General Order Re Mandatory
Electronic Filing for Civil. When e-filing documents, parties must comply with
the “TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS” which are set forth at page 4, line 4 through page
5, line 12 of the Court’s 5/3/19 First Amended General Order Re Mandatory
Electronic Filing for Civil (particularly bookmarking declarations and
exhibits). (CRC 3.1110(f)(4).) Failure to comply with these requirements in the
future may result in papers being rejected, matters being placed off calendar,
matters being continued so documents can be resubmitted in compliance with
these requirements, documents not being considered and/or the imposition of
sanctions.
 
BACKGROUND¿ 
 
This action
involves a business dispute between Plaintiff and Defendants, in which
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants shut Plaintiff out from her 50% shareholder
and director interest in Del Sur Corporation. 
 
On 7/24/23,
Plaintiff filed her complaint, alleging against Defendants the following causes
of action: (l) Breach of Written Contract; (2) Conversion; (3) Breach of
Fiduciary Duty; (4) Accounting; (5) Removal of Director; and (6) Injunctive
Relief. 
 
On 12/18/23,
Defendants filed their answer and cross-complaint against Plaintiff, alleging
the following causes of action: (1) Declaratory Relief; (2) Breach of Fiduciary
Duty; and (3) Ejectment. On 12/21/23, the parties executed a stipulation and
order for the appointment of a discovery referee.
 
The Court
has made implemented several orders during the pendency of this case including
the appointment of a discovery referee.  
 
On 3/21/24,
Plaintiff filed the instant motion. On 4/16/24, Defendants filed their
opposition thereto. On 4/22/24, Plaintiff filed her reply.
 
ANALYSIS
 
The Court may
issue terminating or monetary sanctions, upon noticed motion, “against anyone
engaging in conduct that is a misuse of the discovery process.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2023.030.) However, “A trial court must be cautious when imposing a
terminating sanction because the sanction eliminates a party’s fundamental
right to a trial, thus implicating due process rights. … Although in extreme
cases a court has the authority to order a terminating sanction as a first
measure … a terminating sanction should generally not be imposed until the
court has attempted less severe alternatives and found them to be unsuccessful
and/or the record clearly shows lesser sanctions would be ineffective.” (Lopez
v. Watchtower Bible & Tract Society of New York, Inc. (2016) 246
Cal.App.4th 566, 604 [internal citations omitted].)
 
Here, Plaintiff
argues that terminating and monetary sanctions are warranted against Defendants
and their counsel because defendant “Ruben has engaged in willful and egregious
spoliation of evidence by causing the mass deletion of emails that were subject
to discovery and were directly relevant to the claims and defenses at issue in
this lawsuit.” (Pl.’s Mot. 1:6–8.) Plaintiff further argues that “Ruben has
also blatantly lied to Plaintiff and her attorney as a means to avoid the
deposition of Paz Carbajal, a key non-party witness in this action with respect
to Defendants’ own claims of Plaintiff’s diminished shareholder interest.” (Id.
at 1:11–13.)
 
A.   
Deleted Emails
 
Plaintiff
contends that Defendants should be sanctioned because defendant Ruben Romero
deleted thousands of company emails which would have been directly relevant to
the instant litigation. “Plaintiff was advised by the Company’s IT manager,
Daniel Garcia, that ‘post-August 2023’, he observed a significant mass deletion
of emails from various employees of the Company.” (Id. at 2:5–6, citing
Ex. F to Moretti Decl.) Plaintiff contends that “in an email from the IT
manager dated March 20, 2024, the IT manager confirms that Ruben Romero was
responsible for the deletion of thousands of Company emails without
explanation.” (Id. at 2:10–12, citing Ex. G to Moretti Decl.)
Furthermore, “the IT manager noted that the emails were ‘moved to deleted items
and hard-deleted.’” (Id. at 2:16–17.) Plaintiff therefore argues that “Ruben
Romero has engaged in willful spoliation of evidence that is directly relevant
to this litigation,” and “unfairly and dishonorably deleted
evidence as a means to deny Plaintiff discovery. This constitutes discovery
abuse of the worst degree.” (Id. at 7:17–19; 8:4–5.)
 
Defendants argue
in opposition that the emails were deleted because the server’s mailbox size
had been exceeded, and “only after assuring that backup copies of
all emails had been retained, Romero deleted numerous emails from the Outlook
server to permit the company to continue to send and receive emails.” (Defs.’
Opp. 2:14–16.) Defendants further contend that “these ‘deleted’ emails have
been restored and saved on a local Del Sur computer hard drive and are
completely accessible.” (Id. at 2:16–17.) Defendants additionally raise
that “from December 24, 2023, through January 13, 2024, [plaintiff] Marlene
Moretti deleted 2098 Del Sur emails, and Johnny Romero deleted 1822 Del Sur
emails.” (Id. at 4:2–4, citing Ex. 2 to Defs.’ Opp.)
 
Plaintiff
argues in reply that “Ruben’s declaration contains no actual proof of this
‘Mailbox Size Limit Exceeded’ notification. Further, Ruben does not include any
evidence to support his allegation that Outlook will disable the ability to
send or receive emails unless emails are deleted.” (Pl.’s Reply 2:16–18.)
Plaintiff further argues that “to the extent Defendants argue that Plaintiff is
responsible for spoliation of evidence … those issues are not before the court
and have no bearing on the clear spoliation of evidence and discovery misuses
by Ruben Romero as set forth in the Motion.” (Id. at 4:10–12.) The Court
agrees with Plaintiff that her own alleged deletion of company emails is not properly
before the Court at this juncture.
 
The Court further
notes that Defendants do not dispute Plaintiff’s contention that Romero deleted
the emails cited in Plaintiff’s motion. To the extent that “the emails were
indeed backed-up, it begs the question of (1) why the IT Manager did not make
Plaintiff aware of this, and (2) why Plaintiff, a co-owner of the Company, has
no idea of when and where this storage of deleted emails occurred.” (Id. at
2:23–26.) The Court therefore finds that Defendants have engaged in the misuse
of the discovery process through Romero’s uncontested deletion of relevant
company emails. However, the Court declines to issue terminating sanctions
against Defendants for this misuse of the discovery process, as it finds that
Defendants’ conduct does not rise to the level of misconduct warranting
terminating sanctions, as this Court has yet to unsuccessfully impose “less
severe alternatives.” (Lopez, 246 Cal.App.4th at 604.)
 
B.    
Deposition of Paz Carbajal
 
Plaintiff
further bases the instant motion on Defendants’ failure to comply with
Plaintiff’s attempts to depose non-party witness Paz Carbajal. Plaintiff
maintains that “the deposition of Ms. Carbajal is important because Defendant
Ruben Romero has taken the (contradictory) position that Plaintiff allegedly
transferred her shares in Del Sur Corporation many years ago, such that
Plaintiff is no longer a 50% shareholder. Plaintiff, who plainly disputes this
contention, therefore sought to depose Ms. Carbajal regarding her alleged
shareholder interest and the transfer of shares that Ruben contends occurred in
2005.” (Pl.’s Mot. 8:19–23.)
 
On 2/8/24, Ms.
Carbajal was served with a deposition subpoena to appear for her deposition
scheduled for 2/29/24. (Decl. of JT Fox ¶ 2.) “Ms. Carbajal lives under the direct
care/supervision of Defendant Ruben Romero and does not speak English, such
that Ruben is in a position to advise others regarding her availability.” (Id.
at ¶ 3.) “Following multiple attempts to confirm the deposition of Ms.
Carbajal, on February 27, 2024, Defendants’ counsel represented on a phone call
… that Ms. Carbajal had broken her hip, and was currently unable to attend a
deposition.” (Id. at ¶ 4.) “As of the date of this Motion, neither
Plaintiff nor Plaintiff’s counsel have received any substantive response from
Defendants or Ms. Carbajal regarding Ms. Carbajal’s availability for
deposition, nor have they been provided with a doctor’s letter corroborating
Ms. Carbajal’s alleged hip injuries.” (Pl.’s Mot. 5:6–9.)
 
In opposition, Defendants argue that “while
this office has attempted to assist in resolving this discovery issue, it has
no influence or control over Ms. Carbajal. She is an 86-year-old senior who on
December 23rd, suffered multiple pelvic fractures as a result of a fall.” (Defs.’
Opp. 4:15–17, citing Ex. 3 to Defs.’ Opp.) Defendants proffer Ms. Carbajal’s
purported medical report from her hospital stay following her pelvis fractures.
(Ex. 3 to Defs.’ Opp.)
 
Plaintiff argues in reply that “now, at
the final hour, Defendants produce a hearsay medical report of Ms. Carbajal’s
alleged injuries sustained back in December 2023, and seek to shift all blame
to Plaintiff for simply doing what she needs to secure a deposition to prove up
her case.” (Pl.’s Reply 4:27–5:2.)
 
The Court notes
that Plaintiff has filed a motion to compel the attendance of Ms. Carbajal at
her noticed deposition, with a hearing date for that motion set for 5/16/24. To
that extent, the Court defers to that hearing date the issue of sanctions for
Defendants’ involvement, if any, in Ms. Carbajal’s failure to appear for her
deposition.
 
C.   
Monetary Sanctions
 
Plaintiff requests monetary sanctions in the total amount
of $4,560.00 to be imposed on Defendants and their counsel. This amount
accounts for: (1) 10 hours of Plaintiff’s counsel’s time spent preparing the
instant motion, reply, and oral argument at hearing, at counsel’s hourly rate
of $450.00 per hour; and (2) a $60.00 filing fee; and (4) an anticipated 1
additional hour to appear at the instant hearing. (Fox Decl. ¶ 11.) Based on its foregoing analysis, the Court finds it reasonable
to impose monetary sanctions against Defendant in the amount of 900.00.
 
CONCLUSION¿ 
 
The motion is granted in part. The Court imposes $900.00 in
monetary sanctions against Defendant.