 Case Number:  24STCV10607    Hearing Date:   July 15, 2024    Dept:  56 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT










 




UZI ELIAHOU, etc., et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
FOREX EXPRESS CORP, etc.,  
 
                        Defendant.


 


     
  CASE NO.: 24STCV10607
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTIONS TO BE
  ADMITTED PRO HAC VICE
 
Date: 
  July 15, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Trial: Not set. 



 
MOVING PARTIES: Attorney
Scott Ferrier (“Ferrier”) and James Ancone (“Ancone”)
OPPOSING PARTY: Forex
Express Corp. dba Wirecash (“Defendant”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving, opposing and reply
papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
            On April 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed their complaint against Defendant for
breach of contract. 
 
            On
June 20, 2024, attorneys Ferrier and Ancone (collectively, “Applicants”) filed
their respective applications (the “Applications”) to be admitted pro hac vice
for Plaintiffs. Defendant filed oppositions to the Applications (the “Oppositions”) on
July 1, 2024 and Plaintiffs filed their reply papers to the Oppositions (the “Replies”)
on July 8, 2024.
 
 
DISCUSSION
CRC, Rule 9.40 provides that an attorney in good standing in
another jurisdiction may apply to appear pro hac vice in this State by way of
written application upon due notice to all interested parties, as well as
service on the State Bar in San Francisco with payment of a $50 fee, provided
that the attorney (a) is not a California resident, (b) does not work in
California, and (c) does not perform regular or substantial business,
professional or other activities in California.
 
An application for pro hac vice admission must set forth: (1) the
applicant attorney’s residence and office addresses; (2) the courts to which
the applicant attorney has been admitted and dates of admission; (3) a
representation that the attorney applicant is a member in good standing in the
courts of admission and is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court;
(4) the title of each court and action in which the applicant attorney has
appeared pro hac vice in this State in the prior two years; and (5) the name,
address and phone number of the active California State Bar member with whom
the applicant is associated. (CRC, Rule 9.40(d).)
 
Under CRC, Rule 9.40(b), “[a]bsent special circumstances, repeated
appearances by any person under this rule is a cause for denial of an
application.”  The Court finds that one
other appearance by an applicant is not cause for denial of an application.
 Here, the Applicants each attests to his residence address, which for
Ancone is in Connecticut and for Ferrier is in New York, and as to his business
addresses, which for both is in  New York.
(Ancone Declaration (“Decl.”) and Ferrier Decl.) Each Applicant attests to all
the courts to which he has been admitted (with dates of admission) and that he
is in good standing with these courts and not currently suspended or disbarred
from practice in any court. (Id..) Each submits the name and address of
the active California State Bar member with whom the Applicant is associated. (Id.
at ¶ 4.) Each also attests that he has not filed any pro hac vice applications
in any California federal or state courts in the last two years, except for in
an action pending in this Court, Forex Express Corp. v. Inter & Co.
Payments, Inc., et al. LASC Case No. 22STCV38301 (the “Inter Case”). (Id.)
Further, the requisite fees were paid to the State Bar of California, and the
Notices of Hearing and the instant Applications were served on all interested
parties and on the State Bar of California. (Travis J. Anderson Decl.)
 
While the Opposition raises issues regarding the
Applicants’ actions in the Inter Case which Defendant contends are in violation
of the California Rules of Professional Conduct, the Court finds that those are
issues to be raised in that case and that they are not relevant to the
Applications.
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Ancone
and Ferrier each has established that he satisfied
the requirements to appear as counsel pro hac
vice pursuant to CRC, Rule 9.40.
 
The
Court therefore GRANTS the Applications, and each of them. 
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
         
Dated this 15th day of July 2024




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 