 Case Number:  22STCV38516    Hearing Date:   July 15, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



ROIE MAOR, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
EVE M. ARON, et al., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               







     
  CASE NO.:  22STCV38516
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
 
MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL
 
  
Date: July 15, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
Roie Maor
RESPONDING PARTY:
None
 
The Court
considered the moving papers filed.  The
motion is unopposed.
 
BACKGROUND
            This case arises from a complaint filed by Plaintiff against Defendant
Eve M. Aron (“Defendant”) on December 9, 2022, alleging claims for breach of
contract, common counts, breach of fiduciary duty, fraud, accounting and
recovery of dishonored checks arising from an agreement in which Plaintiff
purportedly agreed to lend money to Defendant, who in turn, allegedly agreed to
use the funds to buy and resell horses for profit.
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Legal
Standard
A court may
grant a continuance of trial only on an affirmative showing of good cause
requiring the continuance.  (California
Rule of Court (“CRC”) 3.1332(c).) Plaintiff here has presented evidence that
various grounds deemed indicative of good cause for a continuance are present
here, including: (4) substitution of trial counsel – here the substitution of
defendant in pro per for prior counsel; and (6) a party’s excused inability to
obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite
diligent efforts.  In addition, the
motion is unopposed.
 
The Court
therefore finds that good cause exists for the requested three month
continuance of trial.  The trial date in
this case is therefore advanced to this date and continued to November 25, 2024
at 9:30 a.m.  The Final Status Conference
(“FSC”)is also advanced to this date and continued to November 12, 2024 at 8:30
a.m. and all other pre-trial dates are similarly advanced and continued to
follow the new trial date.  The Court
cautions the parties to read this Department’s rules on the Court’s website and
to follow all the rules set forth therein for preparation for the FSC.  All trial binders and exhibits binds are to
be lodged with the Court at least five court days before the FSC and trial
counsel is ordered to be present in person at the FSC.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 


 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 15th day of July 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



