 Case Number:  23AHCV00370    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER
GRANTING MOTION TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH SUBPOENA OF NON-PARTY CAROLINE
BERNSTEINI.
        BACKGROUND 
On February 21, 2023, Plaintiff Carter
John Thomas Hasbrook (“Plaintiff”) initiated this lawsuit against his former
wife, Defendant Monica Cione Hasbrook (“Defendant”) for physical injury damages
incurred during a physical attack arising out of the dissolution of their
marriage. On July 14, 2023, Defendant filed a cross-complaint against Plaintiff
alleging that Plaintiff drugged her as she recovered at Huntington Hospital
following being struck by a bus. (Gillick Decl., Exh. 1, ¶ 9.) Discovery has
revealed records that Defendant’s sister Caroline Bernstein, a non-party to
this action, called the hospital alleging that the parties were using heroin
prior to the bus accident and that Plaintiff was the source of the drugs.
(Gillick Decl., Exh. 3.)
Plaintiff now moves to compel non-party Bernstein
to provide responses to Plaintiff’s deposition subpoena and request for production
of records to corroborate the allegations that he supplied heroin to Defendant.  Plaintiff argues that he served Bernstein with
a valid subpoena on April 2, 2024, that required Bernstein to produce records
by April 18, 2024. Plaintiff argues that no response was received, leading to
Plaintiff’s process server, Titan Legal Service to mail follow up letters to
Bernstein demanding compliance. (Motion, p. 4.)
The motion is unopposed.  
II.        MOTION TO COMPEL NON-PARTY COMPLIANCE
WITH SUBPOENA
A. Legal Standard
A party seeking discovery from a person
who is not a party to the action may obtain discovery by oral deposition,
written deposition, or deposition subpoena for production of business
records.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.010.)  A deposition subpoena may command: (1) only
the attendance and testimony of the deponent, (2) only the production of
business records for copying, or (3) the attendance and testimony of the
deponent, as well as the production of business records, other documents,
electronically stored information, and tangible things.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.)
A service of a deposition subpoena shall
be effected a sufficient time in advance of the deposition to provide the
deponent a reasonable opportunity to locate and produce any designated
documents and, where personal attendance is commanded, a reasonable time to
travel to the place of deposition.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (a).) 
Personal service of any deposition subpoena is effective to require a
deponent who is a resident of California to: personally appear and testify, if
the subpoena so specifies; to produce any specified documents; and to appear at
a court session if the subpoena so specifies. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (c).)  A deponent who disobeys a deposition subpoena
may be punished for contempt without the necessity of a prior order of the
court directing compliance by the witness. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.240.) 
A “written notice and all moving papers
supporting a motion to compel an answer to a deposition question or to compel
production of a document or tangible thing from a nonparty deponent must be
personally served on the nonparty deponent unless the nonparty deponent agrees
to accept service by mail or electronic service at an address or
electronic service address specified on the deposition record.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1346.)  
B. Discussion
Plaintiff asserts that Bernstein has
apparent knowledge of the situation and made claims to a hospital employee that
incriminate him against Defendant. Plaintiff asserts that a licensed social
worker at Huntington Hospital spoke with Bernstein over the phone on July 27, 2021,
and Bernstein stated that “Defendant used heroin before the accident and her
ex-husband (Plaintiff) brought it to her.” (Mot., p. 3.) Defendant provides
proof of service showing personal service upon Bernstein with the deposition
subpoena on April 2, 2024. (Gillick Decl., ¶ 5; Exh. 4.) There has been no
objection filed to the subpoena for Bernstein’s deposition, nor has any
opposition or motion to quash been filed. 
III.      CONCLUSION
            Based on the foregoing, the motion
is granted.  Third party Caroline
Bernstein is ordered to comply with the subpoena served on her on April 2,
2024.
Moving party is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Dated
this 10th day of July 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Jared D.
  MosesJudge of the Superior Court

 



