..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 19SMCV02202
Plaintiff's Name: Green & Marker
Defendant's Name: Surjit Bagga and Randy Bagga
People-Names: Richard A. Marker
Company-Names: None
Places: Richmond, California, Canada
Dates: March 17, 2021, April 20, 2021, April 25, 2021, October 29, 2021, August 9, 2024
Events: Default and default judgment, motion to set aside default and default judgment
Money: None
Intentions: To set aside default and default judgment
Facts: The Court entered default against Defendants on April 20, 2021, and default judgment on April 25, 2021. Defendants did not diligently seek relief and filed their motion on October 29, 2021, beyond the 6-month outer limit for most relief.
Disputes: Whether the default and default judgment are valid and whether relief is available to set them aside
Acts: The Court entered default and default judgment, and Defendants filed a motion to set aside default and default judgment
Agreements: None
Laws: Code of Civil Procedure sections 473(b), 473(d), 473.5, 415.50
Case Citations: Manson, Iver & York v. Black, Ellard v. Conway, Dill v. Berquist Construction Co., Yeung v. Soos, Rogers v. Silverman, Quaranta v. Merlini, Kott v. Superior Court
Statutes: Code of Civil Procedure sections 473(b), 473(d), 473.5, 415.50
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant, Attorney, Sheriff
Significant Statements: 
  - "Relief under Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b) is either discretionary or mandatory."
  - "A motion for mandatory relief must be made no more than six months after entry of judgment and be accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to the attorney's 'mistake, inadvertence, surprise or neglect'."
  - "The Court finds that the only relief potentially available to Defendants at this juncture may be found under section 473(d)."
  - "A judgment is void on the face of the record when it appears on the face of the record that the trial court had no power to enter the default or the default judgment."
  - "The term 'reasonable diligence' takes its meaning from the former law: it denotes a thorough, systematic investigation and inquiry conducted in good faith by the party or his agent or attorney."
```

And here is the English text summary:

The Judge has issued a tentative ruling denying the motion of Surjit Bagga and Randy Bagga to set aside the default and default judgment against them. The Judge finds that the Defendants did not diligently seek relief and filed their motion beyond the 6-month outer limit for most relief. The Judge also finds that the service of the summons and complaint was effectuated by publication, which is a valid method of service. The Judge notes that the Defendants did not brief the issues of extrinsic fraud or mistake and that the Court finds no grounds for equitable relief. The Judge concludes that the only relief potentially available to the Defendants at this juncture may be found under Code of Civil Procedure section 473(d), which allows the Court to set aside a void judgment at any time.
