  Case Number:  22STCV12892    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Jane Doe v. Roe 1,
Case No. 22STCV12892
Hearing Date
December 6, 2023 
Defendant Roe 1’s
Motion for Summary Judgment
 
Plaintiff Jane Doe
alleges she was sexually abused as a minor in 1974. Her alleged abuser was Fred
Hilst, a pastor employed by a Roe 1 religious institution. Doe alleges causes
of action for negligent supervision, retention and training and negligent
supervision of a minor. Roe moves for summary judgment, arguing Doe cannot
present admissible evidence showing Roe knew or should have known Doe committed
sexual abuse or had a propensity for sexual abuse.
 
Evidentiary
Objections 
Doe’s objections
OVERRULED. 
 
Motion for Summary
Judgment 
A
court determining a summary judgment motion applies a three-step process: (1)
identifying the issues framed by the complaint, (2) determining whether moving
party made an adequate showing that negates the opponent’s claim, and (3)
determining whether opposing party raised a triable issue of fact. Bostrom
v. County of San Bernardino (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1654, 1662. 
 
Generally, sexual
abuse falls outside the scope of employment and cannot be the basis for
respondeat superior liability. E.g. Farmers Ins. Group v. County of Santa
Clara (1995) 11 Cal.4th 992, 993. When, however, a plaintiff is
“particularly vulnerable and dependent upon the defendant who, correspondingly,
has some control over the plaintiff’s welfare[,]” (e.g. if the plaintiff is a
child), an institutional defendant has a heightened affirmative duty to protect
from sexual abuse by parties, such as employees. Doe v. United States Youth
Soccer Ass’n., Inc. (2017) 8 Cal. App. 5th 1118, 1132. 
 
This means
institutions with charge of children must use reasonable measures to protect
from foreseeable injury, including injuries caused by sexual abuse. Doe v.
Lawndale Elementary School Dist. (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 113, 165.
Foreseeability of sexual abuse can be established by showing defendant knew an
employee engaged in or had a propensity to engage in sexual misconduct with
minors, but such a showing is not the only way to establish foreseeability. Id.
pgs. 167-168. It is generally foreseeable that sexual abuse may take place
within institutions providing services to children, so those entities have a
duty to take “reasonable measures” to protect children in their care, even if
they have no knowledge a specific employee is a potential abuser. Id.
pg. 170.
 
Roe argues Doe
presented no evidence that the church was aware Hilst had a propensity to
commit abuse, previously committed sexual abuse or exhibited “red flags” that
would put Roe on notice children needed to be protected from him. Roe cites
Doe’s discovery responses and declaration of current pastor Peter Hilst (son of
Fred Hilst), to support its claim Roe had no knowledge of any propensity by Fred
Hilst to commit sexual misconduct. 
 
Under Doe v.
Lawndale, a plaintiff alleging negligent failure to protect a child from
sexual abuse need not prove an institutional defendant had actual knowledge of
a specific employee’s propensity for sexual abuse, merely that defendant failed
to take reasonable measures to protect children in its care from a general risk
of sexual abuse. Doe v. Lawndale, supra, 72 Cal.App.5th. at 170.
 
Doe alleges Roe
failed to implement policies to protect children from the general risk of
abuse, and thus failed to prevent the abuse inflicted on Doe. Complaint ¶¶44,
45. 63, 64. The motion does not address these allegations. It presents no
evidence showing lack of a “special relationship” with Doe, which imposes a
duty to protect, or that it enacted reasonable policies to protect Doe from
sexual abuse. 
 
The issues to be
decided on summary judgment are framed by the pleadings. Roe does not address
issues of liability raised – such as that Roe owed a duty of care by virtue of
a “special relationship” and breach by failing to take reasonable measures to
prevent sexual abuse. Because the motion is confined to the narrow issue of
Hilst’s propensity to commit sexual abuse and does not address other issues
raised, it fails to negate the causes of action it targets. Roe does not meet
its initial summary judgment burden. DENIED. 