 Case Number:  23SMCV01370    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Steiger v. Nine
Eighteen Twenty-First Street Homeowners Assoc., Case No. 23SMCV01370
Hearing Date
December 6, 2023
Plaintiff’s
Demurrer to Defendant’s First Amended Answer 
 
Plaintiff Steiger
alleges the HOA defendants improperly restricted his ability to renovate his residential
unit. Defendants Nine Eighteen Twenty-First Street and Mortazavi filed a first
amended answer (FAA) September 18, 2023, pleading twenty-four affirmative
defenses. Steiger demurs to the FAA.
 
Affirmative
defenses are subject to demurrer when they consist only of legal conclusions
without factual support. FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231
Cal.App.3d 367, 384. 
 
Steiger argues the
FAA pleads legal conclusions, not facts. This is most true of the affirmative
defenses for adequate remedy at law, statute of limitations, ratification and
the business judgment rule. As pleaded, these defenses consist only of legal
conclusions, with no supporting facts. Defendants must allege facts
constituting these affirmative defenses. 
 
Excluding the
first and second affirmative defenses based on standing and failure to state a
claim – which are adequately pleaded – the remaining affirmative defenses are
supported by identical allegations: 
 
“Plaintiff was
provided a copy of the CC&Rs prior to his purchase of the property and was
aware of the various restrictions in place relating to installation of hard
surface flooring. Plaintiff ignored the CC&Rs and decided to purchase the
unit anyway. Despite the CC&Rs’ restrictions, Defendants attempted on
numerous occasions to reach a mutual agreement with Plaintiff about
installation of the floors as well as the washer and dryer and the methods by
which that could be accomplished. Defendants are informed and believe that
Plaintiff failed to act in good faith during the negotiation process.” See, FAA
pgs. 2-8.
 
It is not clear
how this allegation is relevant to the affirmative defenses it purports to
support. It is ambiguous how Steiger’s alleged knowledge of the CC&Rs
constitutes laches (eighth affirmative defense), is relevant to a failure to
mitigate damages (tenth affirmative defense) or how it how it entitles
defendants to an offset (twentieth affirmative defense). Defendants’ alleged
facts do not appear connected to the affirmative defenses they purportedly
support. This makes the FAA uncertain. Steiger also argues the FAA fails to
identify the cause or causes of action each affirmative defense targets. The
FAA states each affirmative defense is addressed to every cause of action. To
the extent the demurrer is sustained, it is not sustained on that basis.
 
SUSTAINED as to
the third through twenty-fourth affirmative defenses with ten days leave to
amend to allege relevant facts supporting each affirmative defense.   