 Case Number:  22STCV32691    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
 



LISA
  BERBERIAN

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
STEPHAN
   FILIP PC

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case No. 22STCV32691




 




Department 45




 




[Tentative] RULING




 
 




Action Filed:  10/5/22
Trial Date:  4/28/25




 




 




 


 



 
Hearing Date:             April 9, 2024
Moving 

 Party:             Defendants
Stephan Filip PC and Stephan Airapetian
Responding 

 Party:      None
 
Motion to Compel Compliance with Subpoena Duces Tecum
 
The court has
considered the moving papers. No opposition has been received.
The court GRANTS Defendants’ motion to compel
compliance with subpoena duces tecum. Specialty
Eye Center is ordered to produce the requested documents within twenty (20)
days of this Order.
 
Background
This is a legal malpractice
case. Plaintiff Lisa Berberian filed this action on October 5, 2022 against
defendants Stephan Filip P.C. and Stephan Airapetian, alleging causes of action
for (1) Professional Negligence; (2) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; and (3) Breach
of Contract.
The Complaint
alleges that Plaintiff sustained permanent injuries to her eyes following a
facial hair removal on November 27, 2020 at Beauty Medical Corporation dba LA
Beauty Skin Center (“LABS”). (Compl. ¶¶7-8.) Plaintiff retained Defendants in
December 2020 to represent her in her claims against LABS, but Defendants
failed to realize that LABS was a health care provider to whom the one-year
statute of limitations and 90-day prelawsuit notice requirement applied. (Id.
at ¶¶ 9, 11.) As a result, Defendant failed to bring an action for professional
negligence against LABS within the one-year limitations period, and while a
settlement agreement was reached with LABS, the monetary terms were de minimis
and Plaintiff never consented to the terms. (Id. at ¶¶ 11-12.) 
On October 23,
2023, Defendants filed the instant motion for order directing compliance with
subpoena duces tecum. 
As of April 4,
2024, no opposition has been filed to the instant motion.
 
Legal Standard
 
A party seeking
discovery from a person who is not a party to the action may obtain discovery
by oral deposition, written deposition, or deposition subpoena for production
of business records.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.010.)  A
deposition subpoena may command: (1) only the attendance and testimony of the
deponent, (2) only the production of business records for copying, or
(3) the attendance and testimony of the deponent, as well as the production
of business records, other documents, electronically stored
information, and tangible things.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.) 
Code of Civil
Procedure § 1987.1(a) provides: “If a subpoena requires the attendance of a
witness or the production of . . . documents . . . at the taking of a
deposition, the court, upon motion . . . may make an order . . . directing
compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare. .
. .” § 1987.1 does not contain a meet and confer requirement, nor a requirement
that good cause for production of documents be shown.
However, case law
has read a good cause requirement as to requests for production of documents
from a nonparty:
Although the scope of civil
discovery is broad, it is not limitless. . . . [Former] Section 2031,
subdivision (l), which applies to document production requests served on a
party, requires a party seeking to compel such production to “set forth
specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the
inspection demand . . . .” (Italics in original.) Section 2020, the statute at
issue, contains no such specific requirement. However, since both sections are
part of a single statutory scheme, and since it is unlikely the Legislature
intended to place greater burdens on a nonparty than on a party to the
litigation, we read a similar requirement into the latter section.
 
(Calcor Space Facility v.
Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 223-24.)
 
Discussion
            Based on Plaintiff’s
claim that she received treatment from Specialty Eye Center for her eye
injuries on at least two separate occasions, Defendants personally served a
business records subpoena on non-party Specialty Eye Center for documents
relating to all medical, billing, and radiology records pertaining to Plaintiff
from June 1, 2020 to the present. (Tarpley Decl. ¶¶ 3-5, Exh. B.) Responses
were to be provided by August 7, 2023, but despite an attempt to meet and
confer, Specialty Eye Center has failed to comply with the business records
subpoena.
Here, Defendants have demonstrated good cause
for the production of business records because Plaintiff’s eye injury and
subsequent treatment is relevant to this action . Furthermore, it is noted that
Plaintiff does not oppose the instant motion. 
Accordingly, the court grants the motion. 
//
//
Conclusion
Based on the
foregoing, the court GRANTS Defendants’
motion to compel compliance with subpoena duces tecum and Specialty Eye Center
is ordered to produce the requested documents within twenty (20) days of this
Order.
 
It is so ordered.
 
Dated: April 9, 2024
 
_________________________
ROLF M. TREU
Judge of the
Superior Court