 Case Number:  23STCV11748    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of
California
County
of Los Angeles
 



 
PEDRO
  GARCIA CRUZ, et al.,
 
                             Plaintiffs,
 
                              vs.
FAIRMOUNT
  APARTMENTS, LLC, et al.,
 
                              Defendants.


Case No.:  23STCV11748
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:  May 24, 2023
Trial
  Date:  May 5, 2025



 
Hearing
date:     April 9, 2024
Moving
Party:    (1)
Claimant David Garcia, a minor by and through his guardian ad                            litem,  Pedro Garcia Cruz;
(2)
Claimant Pedro Garcia, Jr., a minor by and through his Guardian ad  Litem, Pedro Garcia Cruz.
Responding
Party:  None
(1)   Petition for Approval of Compromise
of Claim for Claimant David Garcia;
(2)   Petition for Approval of Compromise
of Claim for Claimant Pedro Garcia, Jr.     
The Court
considered the petitions papers. No opposition was received.
            The
court GRANTS the petitions for approval of the compromise of pending action of
claimants David Garcia, a minor, by and through his Guardian ad Litem, David
Garcia Cruz; and Pedro Garcia, Jr., a minor, by and through his Guardian ad
Litem, David Garcia Cruz.
 
Background
This is a habitability
action arising out of Plaintiffs’ tenancy in an apartment complex owned by the Defendants. 

Pedro Garcia Cruz, David
Garcia, a minor by and through his Guardian ad Litem Pedro Garcia Cruz, and
Pedro Garcia Jr., a minor by and through his Guardian ad Litem Pedro Garcia
Cruz, (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed this action on May 23, 2023 against Fairmont Apartments LLC, Stacey Matsuura, as
trustee of the Sarah Yoko Tanimoto 2003 Trust, Powley Properties Inc., and Top
Team Realty Inc., (collectively “Defendants”) alleging causes of action for (1)
Breach of Warranty of Habitability; (2) Breach of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment;
(3) Negligence; and (4) Breach of Contract. This action arises out of Defendants
failure to abate, correct, or repair  the
following conditions (1) infestation of insects, vermin, and rodents; (2)
defective and deteriorated flooring; (3) general dilapidation or improper
maintenance; (4) failure to maintain the existing building, structure,
premises, or portions thereof in conformity with code regulations; (5) failure
to maintain operable doors and windows; (6) failure to secure loose plumbing
fixtures; and (7) lack of required electrical lighting. (Complaint, ¶¶ 19.i-19.vii,
20.)
            On
February 14, 2024, claimants David Garcia, a minor, by and through his Guardian
ad Litem, David Garcia Cruz; and Pedro Garcia, Jr., a minor, by and through his
Guardian ad Litem, David Garcia Cruz, filed their respective petitions to
approve compromise of the pending action. No opposition was received.
 
Legal
Standard
Court approval
is required to establish an enforceable settlement of a minor’s claim. (Prob.
Code, §§ 2504, 3500, 3600, et seq.; CCP, § 372.) Indeed, until a petition for
such approval is granted by the court, there is no final settlement, and any
settlement agreement therefore is voidable. (Scruton v. Korean Air Lines Co.
(1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 1596, 1603-05.) Petitions for approval of the compromise
of a pending action are governed by CRC Probate Rules 7.950–7.955 and Probate
Code §§ 2504, et seq. CRC Probate Rule 7.950 provides that a petition “must be
verified by the petitioner and must contain a full disclosure of all
information that has any bearing upon the reasonableness of the compromise.”
Rule 7.950 states that the Petition must be filed on Judicial Council Form
MC-350.
In addition to
approval of the settlement, attorney fees to be paid for representing the minor
or incompetent must be approved by the court. (Fam. Code, § 6602; Prob. Code, §
3601.) The court must use a reasonable fee standard when approving and allowing
the amount of attorney's fees payable from money or property paid or to be paid
for the benefit of a minor or a person with a disability. (CRC Rule
7.955(a)-(b).)
 
Discussion
The court has
reviewed the settlements and finds they are fair and reasonable. The petitions
filed herein are properly filed on the Judicial Council Forms and are verified.
(Petitions, p. 10.) Petitioners have properly included in section 11a of the
MC-350 the total amount settled, and the amounts paid by each defendant.
Further, the court can ascertain from section 11 of the petitions the total
amount of the settlement that Plaintiffs and Defendants entered into, $80,000.00.
Each claimant is set to receive $5,000.00 before attorney’s fees and costs.
(Petitions, § 10a.) The petitions set forth the personal injuries each of the
Claimants sustained and which they have completely recovered from. (Petitions,
§§ 6, 8a.) The petitions also set forth zero medical expenses were paid or were
to be reimbursed from proceeds of the settlement for each claimant. (Petitions,
§§ 12a.) Petitioner states the apportionment of settlement was based on
Petitioner’s special damages of paid rent during the unhabitable period.
(Petitions, Attachments 11b(2).) Given the total settlement amount, the damages
that each claimant sustained, and each claimant’s proportional amount in
recovery, the court finds these settlement terms are fair and reasonable.
The petitions
also establish Petitioners’ counsel’s name, state bar number, law firm, and
business address (Petitions, § 17b); that Petitioners’ counsel has not received
attorney’s fees or other compensation in addition to that requested in this
petition (Petitions, § 17c); that Petitioners’ counsel did not become concerned
with this matter, directly or indirectly, at the instance of a party against
whom the claim is asserted or a party's insurance carrier (Petitions, § 17d);
that Petitioners’ counsel is representing another party involved in this matter
(Petitions, § 17e); and that Petitioners’ counsel expect to receive attorney’s
fees or other compensation in the amount of $29,250.00 from Defendants in
addition to that requested in this petition (Petitions, § 17f). (CRC, Rules
7.951(1)-(5).) Petitioner and claimants are each identified in the parties’ “Contingency
Fee Retainer Agreement,” included in Attachment 17a(2). As to the requirement
of CRC, Rule 7.951(6) that the terms of any agreement between petitioner and
the attorney be disclosed, Petitioners have included the parties’ “Contingency
Fee Retainer Agreement” in Attachment 17a, as discussed above.
The petitions
show the amounts that Petitioners’ counsel requests for attorney’s fees for
each claimant, $1,250.00. (Petitions, § 13a.) The petitions also set forth the
total amount of costs or litigation expenses for each claimant. (Petitions, § 13b.)
The amount in attorney’s fees that Petitioners’ counsel is requesting is 25 percent,
which is less than the contingency fee rate set forth in the parties’ “Contingency
Fee Retainer Agreement.” (See Petition, Attachment 17a [Retainer Agreement, § 1].)
Under the parties’ Contract, Petitioner is to reimburse counsel for any and all
costs advanced or incurred. (Id. [Retainer Agreement, § 1].)
The court finds
Petitioners’ counsel’s request for attorney’s fees is reasonable. This matter
has been litigated for roughly thirty months. (CRC, Rule 7.955(b)(8); Petitions,
Fishenfeld Decl. at ¶ 11 ) Petitioner’s counsel attests that her firm has spent
25 hours preparing and resolving this case. (Id. at ¶ 9.) Petitioner’s counsel also
establishes that her firm has advanced to date $380.94 in litigation expenses
and costs, which Petitioner agreed to reimburse in the “Contingency Fee
Retainer Agreement.” (Id. at ¶¶ 10, 11.)
Given the total
number of hours that Petitioner’s counsel spent on this case and the total
amount in attorney’s fees requested, the court finds Petitioner’s counsel’s
effective hourly rate is reasonable. Thus, considering the services performed,
the amount of fees in proportion thereto, and the contingent risk to
Petitioner’s counsel, the court finds that the amount of attorney’s fees and
costs requested are reasonable in this case. (See CRC, Rule 7.955.)
After attorney’s
fees and reimbursement of costs, claimants are to receive $3,369.06 each.
(Petitions, § 16f.) The petitions establish that funds will be paid or
delivered to the parent of claimants without bond. (Petitions, § 18b(5).)
Petitioner provides the proper documentation of his name and address. (Petitions,
Attachment 18b(5).) 
Based on the
foregoing, the court GRANTS the petitions for approval of the compromise of
pending action of claimants David Garcia, a minor, by and through his Guardian
ad Litem, David Garcia Cruz; and Pedro Garcia, Jr., a minor, by and through his
Guardian ad Litem, David Garcia Cruz.
 
            It
is so ordered.
 
 
Dated: April 9, 2024
 
_______________________
ROLF M. TREU
Judge of the
Superior Court