  Case Number:  19STCV31606    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
 



BRIAN RUCKER, et al.

   ;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
SERVPRO
   INDUSTRIES, INC.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case No. 19STCV31606




 




Department 45




 




[Tentative] RULING




 
 




Action Filed:  09/05/19
First Amended Compl. Filed: 10/26/20
Trial Date:  8/5/24




 




 




 


 



 
Hearing Date:             April 9, 2024
Moving 

 Party:             Defendant Mission
Critical Restoration Services, Inc. dba Servpro of Torrance
Responding 

 Party:      None
 
Motion for Site Inspection
 
The court has
considered the moving papers. No opposition has been received.
The court GRANTS Defendant Mission Critical
Restoration Services, Inc. dba Servpro of Torrance’s motion for site inspection.
The site inspection of Plaintiffs’ premises shall occur within 30 days of this
Order. 
Also, the court GRANTS
the request for monetary sanctions against Plaintiffs and their attorney of
record, jointly and severally, in the reduced amount of $622.50. Plaintiffs are
ordered to tender payment to Defendant Mission Critical Restoration Services’
counsel within 30 days of this Order. 
 
 
Background
Plaintiffs Brian
Rucker and Valentina Malofiy initiated this action on September 5, 2019.
Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) on October 26,
2020 against ServPro Industries, Mission Critical Restoration Services, Inc.
dba ServePro of Torrance (“Mission Critical Restoration Services, Inc.”),
Farmers Group, Inc., Farmers Insurance Exchange, and Mid-Century Insurance
Company, alleging causes of action for: (1) Negligence; (2) Breach of
Fiduciary/Contract; (3) Declaratory Judgment/Breach of Contract; (4) First
Party Insurance Bad Faith – Tortious Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith
and Fair Dealings; and (5) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress.
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants negligently failed to correctly mitigate smoke
damage to Plaintiffs’ home, which led to the release of massive amounts of
asbestos that rendered the home unlivable. Plaintiffs have also alleged facts
supporting a bad faith insurance claim. 
On December 7,
2023, Defendant Mission Critical Restoration Services filed the instant motion for
order permitting entry upon land and to conduct a site inspection of
Plaintiffs’ premises. Additionally, it seeks monetary sanctions against
Plaintiffs and their attorney of record, jointly and severally, in the amount
of $960.
As of April 4,
2024, no opposition has been filed to the instant motion.
 
Legal Standard
 
Code of Civil
Procedure § 2031.010(d) allows a party to make a demand for inspection. Code of
Civil Procedure § 2031.020(a) allows a defendant to make a demand for
inspection or testing without leave of court at any time. When a party does not
comply with the Discovery Act, the party demanding the inspection may file a
motion to compel pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 2023.010(d). 
 
Discussion
A.   
Merits
Here, on September 27, 2023, Defendant Mission
Critical Restoration Services served Plaintiffs with a Demand for Inspection
that requested Plaintiffs to make their home, located at 26136 Veva Way,
Calabasas, California, to be available for inspection on November 1, 2023 at
10:00 a.m. (McNamara Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A.) Eventually, Plaintiffs counsel
responded on October 27, 2023 and indicated that the inspection would have to
be rescheduled so that Plaintiffs could be present. (Id. at ¶ 6.)
Defendant Mission Critical Restoration Services requested alternative dates,
but Plaintiffs failed to respond even after a follow-up request was made. (Id.
at ¶¶ 7-12.) To date, alternative dates have not yet been provided. (Id.
at ¶ 11.) Thus, Defendant Mission Critical Restoration Services argues that the
site inspection is necessary based on Plaintiffs’ allegations that it had
contributed to the spread of asbestos during a smoke remediation.
Under the
circumstances, a site inspection is warranted because Plaintiffs allege that
asbestos was spread in the subject property, and Defendant Mission Critical
Restoration Services should have an opportunity to determine whether asbestos
is present in the subject property and to determine the cause of this spread in
asbestos. 
Accordingly,
Defendant Mission Critical Restoration Services’ request for entry on the
subject property and to conduct a site inspection is granted. 
//
//
B.   
Sanctions
When a party engages in acts that constitute
a misuse of the discovery process, sanctions are authorized pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure § 2023.030. Requests for sanctions may be denied where a party
shows that they acted with substantial justification. (Code of Civil Procedure
§ 2023.030(a).)  
Here, Defendant Mission Critical
Restoration Services requests monetary sanctions against Plaintiffs and their
attorney of record, jointly and severally, in the amount of $960, inclusive of
costs. Counsel McNamara attests that he spent two hours preparing the instant
motion at a rate of $225 per hour. (McNamara Decl. ¶ 14.) He also anticipates
spending an hour reviewing the opposition and preparing a reply and an
additional hour in attending the hearing. (Ibid.) 
While sanctions
are warranted against Plaintiffs for failing to submit to an authorized
discovery method, the amount requested is excessive because no opposition has
been filed and any appearance will likely be conducted remotely. Therefore, the
court reduces Defendant Mission Critical Restoration Services’ request for
monetary sanction to $622.50, consisting of 2.5 hours of attorney time at an
hourly rate of $225 and the filing fee of $60.
Accordingly, the
request for monetary sanctions against Plaintiffs and their attorney of record,
jointly and severally, is granted in the reduced amount of $622.50.
 
Conclusion
Based on the
foregoing, the court GRANTS Defendant Mission Critical Restoration Services’
motion for order permitting entry upon land and to conduct a site inspection of
Plaintiffs’ premises. The site inspection shall occur within 30 days of this
Order. 
Also, the request
for monetary sanctions against Plaintiffs and their attorney of record, jointly
and severally, is granted in the reduced amount of $622.50. Plaintiffs are
ordered to tender payment to Defendant Mission Critical Restoration Services’
counsel within 30 days of this Order. 
 
It is so ordered.
 
Dated: April 9, 2024
 
_________________________
ROLF M. TREU
Judge of the
Superior Court