  Case Number:  19STCV13450    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2023    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




ivan mendoza

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
orange trim, inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


19STCV13450




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


October
   2, 2023




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s motion for relief from order
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Soon Pill Kim       
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Ivan Mendoza
Motion for Relief from Order
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court grants defendant
Soon Pill Kim’s request for judicial notice. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).) 
DISCUSSION
Defendant Soon Pill Kim (“Defendant”) moves the court for an order
setting aside the November 3, 2022 order granting the motion for terminating
sanctions filed by plaintiff Ivan Mendoza (“Plaintiff”) pursuant to the
mandatory and discretionary relief provisions set forth in Code of Civil
Procedure section 473, subdivision (b).
Code of Civil Procedure section 473 “includes a discretionary
provision, which applies permissively, and a mandatory provision, which applies
as of right.”  (Minick v. City of
Petaluma (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 15, 25.) 
“The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or
her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding
taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
473, subd. (b).)  The court, however,
“shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months
after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s
sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or
her client, and which will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2)
resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless
the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the
attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) 
First, the court finds that Defendant has not met his burden to show
that he is entitled to mandatory relief. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b); Austin v. Los Angeles Unified
School Dist. (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 918, 928 [“the moving party bears the
burden of establishing a right to relief”].)
As a threshold matter, the mandatory provision is inapplicable to the
order that Defendant seeks to set aside in connection with this motion.  As set forth above, the court is required to
vacate, when a motion is accompanied by an attorney’s affidavit of fault, a
“resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which
will result in entry of a default judgment,” or a “resulting default judgment
or dismissal . . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 473, subd. (b).)  Although the
court ordered stricken Defendant’s answer and ordered Plaintiff to file a
request for entry of default in its November 3, 2022 order, the clerk has not
entered default against Defendant.[1]  Thus, there is no “resulting default” against
Defendant to set aside at this time.  (Ibid.)  Further, there is no “resulting default
judgment or dismissal entered against” Defendant, because (1) as set forth
above, the clerk has not entered default against Defendant, and (2) the court
has not entered judgment of dismissal against Defendant and has only ordered
that his answer is stricken.  (Ibid.;
Nov. 3, 2022 Order, pp. 3:27-4:2)
The court notes that Defendant has cited authority in support of his
contention that he is entitled to relief from the order striking his
answer.  (Opp., p. 9:9-16.)  However, the case relied on made clear that
“[t]he court [t]here actually entered defendants’ defaults and a default
judgment.”  (Matera v. McLeod (2006)
145 Cal.App.4th 44, 65.)  Further, the
court noted that they were “entitled to relief from the order striking their
answer, for the reasons stated in section 2.c, ante[,]” i.e., because
(1) “[t]he striking of a defendant’s answer as a terminating sanction leads
inexorably to the entry of default[,]” and (2) “[t]o vacate the defaults
without reinstating defendants’ answer would be an empty gesture.”  (Id. at pp. 68, 62.)  Thus, the defendants in Matera were
entitled to an order vacating the order striking their answers in order to
ensure that the order vacating the default and default judgment was not
rendered meaningless.  Here, however,
Defendant has not had default or default judgment entered against him, and he
has not been dismissed. 
Even if the mandatory relief provision applied to the November 3, 2022
order, the court finds that Defendant has not submitted an attorney affidavit
of fault that meets the requirements of section 473, subdivision (b). 
Defendant submits the declaration of his prior attorney, Kelly
Lawrence Casado (“Casado”), in which Casado states the following: (1) on
November 2, 2022 (i.e., the day before the hearing on Plaintiff’s motion),
Casado served responses to Plaintiff’s discovery; (2) Casado appeared for the
hearing on November 3, 2022, during which he informed the court that he served
the discovery responses the day before; (3) Casado was unable to provide the
court with copies of the discovery responses and he did not file a declaration
stating that he served responses; (4) Casado made no other arrangements to provide
the court with copies of the discovery responses; (5) he believed that the
court did not believe his representations; and (6) the court then granted the
motion for sanctions on November 3, 2022. 
(Casado Decl., ¶¶ 5, 7-9; Casado Decl., Ex. DD [November 2, 2022
email sent at 6:28 p.m. stating “Please find attached Defendant Steve Kim’s
Responses to Requests for Production and Responses to Special
Interrogatories”].) 
However, Casado does not state that (1) his conduct was the result of
his “mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect,” or (2) the November 3, 2022
order was “caused by [his]  mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)  Moreover, Casado does not address the
circumstances leading to the court’s order granting the motion for terminating
sanctions (i.e., Defendant’s failure to comply with the court’s August 9, 2022
order that Defendant provide responses within 20 days of the date of that
order), nor does he state that the failure to comply with that order was the
result of his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.  (Ibid.; Aug. 9, 2022 Order, p.
3:16-20, 3:23-28.)  
Second, the court finds that Defendant has not met his burden to show
that he is entitled to discretionary relief. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b); Austin, supra, 244
Cal.App.4th at p. 928.)
“‘A party who seeks relief under section 473 on the basis of mistake
or inadvertence of counsel must demonstrate that such mistake, inadvertence, or
general neglect was excusable because the negligence of the attorney is imputed
to his client and may not be offered by the latter as a basis for relief.’ . .
. . [T]he discretionary relief provision of section 473 only permits relief
from attorney error ‘fairly imputable to the client, i.e., mistakes anyone
could have made.’  [Citation.]  ‘Conduct falling below the professional
standard of care, such as failure to timely object or to properly advance an
argument, is not therefore excusable.’” 
(Zamora v. Clayborn Contracting Group, Inc. (2002) 28 Cal.4th
249, 258 [internal citations omitted].) 
However, “[i]mputation of the attorney’s neglect to the client ceases at
the point where “abandonment of the client appears.”  (Seacall Development, Ltd. v. Santa Monica
Rent Control Bd. (1999) 73 Cal.App.4th 201, 205.) 
Defendant contends that Casado abandoned and ceased to represent him,
therefore warranting discretionary relief. 
Defendant has submitted his declaration, in which he states that Casado
did not inform him of the discovery served on him and codefendant Orange Trim,
Inc., Casado did not file oppositions to those motions, and Casado did not
inform him that the court granted Plaintiff’s motion for terminating
sanctions.  (Soon Pill Kim Decl.,
¶¶ 12-13, 32, 34, 37.)  However, the
court finds that the evidence shows that Casado did not abandon Defendant.  Specifically, the November 3, 2022 minute
order reflects that Casado appeared at the hearing on the motion, and Casado
states that he did serve (albeit belated) discovery responses on behalf of
Defendant.  (RJN Ex. A, p. 1 [“For
Defendant(s): Kelly Lawrence Casado, Esq.”]; Casado Decl., ¶ 5.)  Thus, the court finds that the evidence does
not show that Casado abandoned Defendant. 
Third, the court finds that Defendant has not met his burden to show
that he is entitled to relief pursuant to the court’s inherent equitable
authority. 
“Aside from section 473, subdivision (b), ‘courts have the inherent
authority to vacate a default and default judgment on equitable grounds such as
extrinsic fraud or extrinsic mistake.’ 
[Citation.]  The court’s ability
to grant relief under its inherent power is narrower than its ability to grant
relief under section 473, subdivision (b).” 
(Kramer v. Traditional Escrow, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 13,
29.)  “A party seeking relief under the
court’s equitable powers must satisfy the elements of a ‘stringent
three-pronged test’: (1) a satisfactory excuse for not presenting a defense,
(2) a meritorious defense, and (3) diligence in seeking to set aside the
default.”  (Ibid.) 
The court finds that Defendant has not shown a satisfactory excuse for
the conduct leading to the court’s order granting Plaintiff’s motion for
terminating sanctions.  (Kramer, supra,
56 Cal.App.5th at p. 29.) 
Defendant again argues that, because Casado abandoned him, he is
entitled to relief.  The court notes that
“[w]here a client is unknowingly deprived of effective representation by
counsel the client will not be charged with responsibility for misconduct if
the client acts with due diligence in moving for relief after discovering the
attorney’s neglect and if the other side will not be prejudiced by the
delay.”  (Aldrich v. San Fernando
Valley Lumber Co. (1985) 170 Cal.App.3d 725, 739.)  The court also notes that “[p]ositive
misconduct is found where there is a total failure on the part of
counsel to represent his client.”  (Ibid.)  However, as set forth above, the court has
concluded that Defendant did not show that Casado abandoned him, i.e., that
there was “a total failure on the part of” Casado to represent Defendant, since
Casado (1) eventually, but belatedly, responded to discovery on his behalf, and
(2) appeared at the hearing on the motion on his behalf.  (Ibid.; RJN Ex. A, p. 1; Casado Decl.,
¶ 5.) 
The court denies Plaintiff’s request for an award of monetary
sanctions against Defendant.
ORDER
The court denies defendant Soon Pill Kim’s motion for relief from
order. 
The court orders plaintiff Ivan Mendoza to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  October 2, 2023
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


