 Case Number:  20STCV23621    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2023    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




nicolitsa pitsos

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
rosa y. jou

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


20STCV23621




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


October
   2, 2023




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
specially appearing defendant’s motion to
  quash service of summons
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Specially appearing defendant
James Tseng, on behalf of himself and the Tseng and Jou Family Trust         
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:    Plaintiffs Nicolitsa Pitsos, Georgios Pitsos,
Stavroula Pitsos, and Demetrios Pitsos
Motion to Quash Service of Summons
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
The court sustains plaintiffs
Nicolitsa Pitsos, Georgios Pitsos, and Stavroula Pitsos and Demetrios Pitsos,
by and through their guardian ad litem Nicolitsa Pitsos’s evidentiary
objections to the declaration of James Tseng. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2015.5.) 
The court rules on specially appearing defendant James Tseng’s
evidentiary objections as follows:
The court overrules Objections Nos. 1-3, 7, and 11.
The court sustains Objections Nos. 4-6, 8-10, and 12-13.
DISCUSSION
Specially appearing defendant James Tseng, on behalf of himself and
the Tseng and Jou Family Trust[1]
(“Defendant”) moves the court for an order quashing service of summons on the
ground that plaintiffs Nicolitsa Pitsos, Georgios Pitsos, and Stavroula Pitsos
and Demetrios Pitsos, by and through their guardian ad litem Nicolitsa Pitsos
(“Plaintiffs”) did not properly serve Defendant with the summons and complaint
in this action. 
“A defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time to plead or
within any further time that the court may for good cause allow, may serve and
file a notice of motion for one or more of the following purposes: [¶] (1) To
quash service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court
over him or her.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §¿418.10, subd. (a)(1).)  “When
a defendant argues that service of summons did not bring him or her within the
trial court’s jurisdiction, the plaintiff has ‘the burden of proving the facts
that did give the court jurisdiction, that is the facts requisite to an
effective service.’”  (American Express Centurion Bank v. Zara (2011)
199 Cal.App.4th 383, 387; Summers v. McClanahan (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th
403, 413 [the burden is on the plaintiff “to prove the existence of
jurisdiction”] [internal quotations omitted].)  
On August 24, 2023, Plaintiffs filed two proofs of service with the
court.  The first proof of service states
that James Tseng was personally served on March 3, 2023, “by personal
service.”  (POS-010 as to James Tseng, ¶¶
3, 5.)  However, the proof of service
also states that James Tseng was “confirmed at home, [and] refused to open [the]
door to accept documents[.]”  (Id.,
¶ 3, subd. (a).)  This proof of
service was not signed by a registered California process server.   (Id., ¶ 7, subd. (e)(1).)  The second proof of service states that the
Tseng and Jou Family Trust was personally served at the same time and at the
same address that James Tseng was served. 
(POS-010 as to Tseng and Jou Family Trust, ¶¶ 3-5.)  It further states that James Tseng was served
on behalf of the trust as trustee and “as authorized agent to accept service of
process (confirmed at home, refused to open door to accept documents)[.]”  (Id., ¶ 3, subd. (b).)  This proof of service was not signed by a
registered California process server.   (Id.,
¶ 7, subd. (e)(1).)
First, the court finds that, because the proofs of service were not
signed by a registered process server, there is no presumption affecting the
burden of producing evidence of the facts stated in those proofs of service.  (Evid. Code, § 647; American Express
Centurion Bank, supra, 199 Cal.App.4th at p. 390 [when statutory
presumption applied, the “defendant was thus required to produce evidence that
he was not served”].) 
Second, the court finds that Plaintiffs have not met their burden to
prove that they properly served Defendant. 
(Summers, supra, 140 Cal.App.4th at p. 413.) 
Plaintiffs have attached copies of the proofs of service to their
opposition papers, contending that they personally served Defendant as stated
therein.  (Rand-Lewis Decl., Exs.
A-B.)  However, the court finds that the
proofs of service do not sufficiently show that Defendant was personally served,
on behalf of Defendant as an individual and on behalf of the Tseng and Jou
Family Trust, on March 3, 2023. 
“A summons may be served by
personal delivery of a copy of the summons and of the complaint to the person
to be served.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.10.)  “If the complaint and summons were personally
delivered to, i.e., handed to, defendant then he could be said to have been
‘personally served.’”  (American
Express Centurion Bank, supra, 199 Cal.App.4th at p. 389.) 
Here, although the proofs of
service state that Defendant was served “by personal service[,]” the other
facts asserted therein establish that the summons and complaint were not
“handed to” or personally delivered to Defendant.  (POS-010 as to James Tseng, ¶ 3, subd.
(a); POS-010 as to Tseng and Jou Family Trust, ¶ 3, subd. (b); American
Express Centurion Bank, supra, 199 Cal.App.4th at p. 389.)  Specifically, the proofs of service state
that Defendant did not answer the door. 
Therefore the process server could not have “personally delivered to,
i.e., handed to,” Defendant the summons and complaint.  (Ibid.) 
Thus, the court finds that, on their face, the proofs of service are
insufficient to show that Plaintiffs served Defendant with the summons and
complaint by personal service on March 3, 2023. 

Plaintiffs also argue that
service was proper since Defendant refused to accept service of process.  (Opp., p. 4:11-13; Trujillo v. Trujillo (1945)
71 Cal.App.2d 257, 259-260.)  However,
the court finds that Plaintiffs have not submitted competent evidence showing
that Defendant was notified that he was being served with the summons and
complaint in this action and evaded service. 

The court therefore finds that
Plaintiffs have not met their burden to “‘prove the existence of jurisdiction
by proving, inter alia, the facts requisite to an effective service’” and
grants Defendant’s motion.  (Summers,
supra, 140 Cal.App.4th at p. 413.)
ORDER
The court grants specially appearing defendant James Tseng’s motion to
quash. 
The court orders that the service of summonses on (1) specially
appearing defendant James Tseng, and (2) specially appearing defendant James
Tseng, on behalf of the Tseng and Jou Family Trust, are quashed. 
The court orders specially appearing defendant James Tseng to give
notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  October 2, 2023
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


