  Case Number:  19STCV30463    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  200 LOS ANGELES  SUPERIOR COURT  WEST DISTRICT -  BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE  DEPT. 200   TENTATIVE  RULING ON WINE WAREHOUSE’S OBJECTION TO FURTHER RECOMMENDATION OF REFEREE RE:  COMMON INTEREST PRIVILEGE CLAIM      Ben Myerson Candy  Co., Inc., dba Wine Warehouse v. Devoto-Wade LLC, dba Golden State Cider, and  related cross-complaint, Case No. 19STCV30463 Hearing Date: September  20, 2024, 10:00 a.m.   BACKGROUND             On  October 18, 2021, WW filed a motion before the discovery referee to compel the  production of an unredacted e-mail dated June 12, 2019 between Christopher  Lacey of GSC and Jennifer Perrone of Del Reka in connection with the PMQ  deposition of GSC wherein GSC had designated Lacey as its deponent. WW also  sought a privilege log from GSC showing any other documents withheld by GSC on  the same asserted basis of a “common interest privilege.” WW argues the  privilege is waived where a party includes a third party in communications with  its counsel.              On  October 25, 2021, GSC filed opposition to the motion. GSC argues Del Reka is a  “necessary” third party for purposes of showing it was necessary to accomplish  the purpose for which the advice was sought under Evidence Code secs. 912(d)  and 952. It argues that both parties had a common interest in obtaining legal  advice concerning the distribution agreement they were entering into, citing Ceres  v. Superior Court (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 889, 914.              On  October 28, 2021, WW filed a reply. WW notes that there was no dispute between  WW and GSC as of the date of the email and that GSC did not notify WW of its  intent to terminate the distribution agreement until June 26, 2019. WW argues  also that there is no evidence of any agreement between GSC and Del Reka that  their communication would be confidential or any other indicator that they both  could reasonably expect that these communications would remain confidential (if  they ever were.) Hence, under Oxy Resources v. Superior Court (2004) 115  Cal.App.4th 874 and Ins. Co. of North America v.  Superior Court (1980) 108 Cal.App.3d  758, 767, GSC does not meet the requirement of showing a reasonable expectation  of continued confidentiality, as opposed to merely showing a common interest in  legal advice.              On  November 10, 2021, WW filed a sur-reply related to its request the referee  conduct an in-camera inspection of the email given that there was no  presumption of confidentiality and that the burden was on the proponent of the  privilege, citing Roush v. Seagate Technology (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th  210, 225, Behunin v. Superior Court (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 833, 848-849,  as well as STI Outdoor v. Superior Court (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th  334.              On  November 16, 2021, the referee recommended denial of WW’s motion to compel and  for the Court to uphold GSC’s assertion of privilege. The referee found that  there was a joint interest in doing business together and obtaining the advice  of counsel to that end.              On  November 29, 2021, WW objected to the recommendation of the referee and  requested the Court independently review. WW emphasized that the doctrine was  one of non-waiver, requiring GSC have provided the necessary evidence that both  parties have had a reasonable expectation of continued confidentiality.              On  December 22, 2021, Judge Mel Recana issued an order on the objection and  remanded to the referee as to the evidence that supported the recommendation of  the referee. Judge Recana stated, inter alia, “[t]he court will not overturn  the …referee’s findings without findings and compel production…without  providing [GSC] an opportunity to submit the proper evidence in support of its  claim of privilege. If [GSC’s] counsel submits a declaration or verified  statements, the…referee shall revise his findings and recommendations to  account for such declaration or statements. The…referee shall clarify if his  findings concerning the reasonable expectation of confidentiality extend[s] to  Del Reka…”              On  January 21, 2022, the referee clarified his recommendation. Relying on the  Supplemental Declaration of Christopher Lacey, the referee abided by his  earlier recommendation. In paragraphs 7 and 9 of the recommendation, the  referee notes what further considerations he undertook. Significantly, however,  in footnote 3, the referee states that he does not consider the remand for any  purpose other than to clarify the premises for the recommendation and  specifically that he “doesn’t consider that the remand was made to allow or  require referee to alter prior recommendation.”              On  January 27, 2022, WW filed Objections to the clarified recommendation, noting  three points: First, there was no evidence showing Del Reka agreed to maintain  any privilege. Second, there was no evidence showing that involvement of the  third party be nearly indispensable or serve some specialized purpose in  facilitating the attorney client communication. Third, that a privilege log is  still needed as to any other document withheld on this basis where it appeared  that there were similar agreements with numerous other distributors that also  are relevant to the dispute here concerning the termination by GSC of the  distribution agreement with WW.              On  February 7, 2022, GSC filed opposition to the Objections, with supporting  declaration showing what was filed with the referee.              On  February 8, 2022, WW filed a Reply.              On April  29, 2024, this case was assigned to the undersigned for trial.             On  June 21, 2024, at a hearing related to another  motion, WW advised the Court that Judge Recana had not ruled on the foregoing  Objection and requested the Court do so. GSC argued that WW had waived the  issue — having represented to Dept. 1 that the case was ready for trial. The  hearing on the Objections was set for September 20, 2024, in conjunction with a  motion in limine on a related issue.      DISCUSSION             The  Court does not find WW waived its right to obtain a ruling on an objection the  parties had previously submitted for decision to Judge Recana in 2022 -- by way  of agreeing in 2024 that this case was ready to go to trial in a long-cause  trial courtroom. It appears that WW had done all that was required for it to  assert (including substantial briefing) and from discussion with counsel at the  hearing that this issue was not addressed on transfer of the case merely due to  oversight. Moreover, where this case cannot be tried for several months, based  on this courtroom’s having to try other cases first, there is time for the  parties to conclude this issue.               Turning  to the merits, independent review of a discovery reference, as here, is required,  under Code of Civil Procedure sec. 644(b), concerning the recommendation of a  referee.              This bench  officer has initial concern that the referee did not conduct the remand ordered  by Judge Recana. The referee expressly limited his further review of this  matter to one of clarifying his earlier recommendation that was made without  reference to any supporting evidence. The referee did not indicate what  scrutiny he undertook of the evidence presented other than to note it confirmed  his prior recommendation. Similarly, the Court reads the footnote as one  whereby the referee believed he was unable to alter his recommendation - which  would seem to defeat the purpose of the remand in considering whether the  evidence met the requirements, not merely whether the evidence confirmed his  prior recommendation — which necessarily was without basis where it did not  follow the applicable requirements discussed below. Even assuming the referee  conducted the remand that Judge Recana ordered, the referee did not address WW’s  evidentiary objections to the Supplemental Declaration of Christopher Lacey. As  discussed below, those objections are well founded. Without that necessary  evidence, GSC fails to meet its burden to justify a finding of non-waiver of  the privilege. There is no applicable presumption of a privilege in this  context.              Turning  to the merits, “a party seeking to rely on the common interest doctrine does  not satisfy its burden to justify a claim of privilege simply by demonstrating  that a confidential communication took place between parties who purportedly  share a common interest. Rather, the party seeking to invoke the doctrine must  first establish that the communicated information would otherwise be protected  from disclosure by a claim of privilege.” Oxy Resources, supra, 115  Cal.App.4th at 890.  “While  involvement of an unnecessary third person in attorney-client communications  destroys confidentiality, involvement of third persons to whom disclosure is  reasonably necessary to further the purpose of the legal consultation preserves  confidentiality of communication.” Id. “If a disclosing party does not  have a reasonable expectation that information that a third party will preserve  the confidentiality of the information, then any applicable privileges are  waived. An expectation of confidentiality, however, is not enough to avoid  waiver. In addition, disclosure of the information must be reasonably necessary  for the accomplishment of the purpose for which the lawyer was consulted.  (Evid. Code sec. 912(d)) Thus, for the common interest doctrine to attach, most  courts seem to insist that the two parties have in common an interest in  securing legal advice related to the same matter – and that the communications  be made to advance their shared interest in securing legal advice on that  common matter.” Id., at 891.                 Initially,  GSC has not shown that “the communicated information would otherwise be  protected from disclosure by a claim of privilege.” Id., at 890 It is  also not clear why it is indispensable for GSC to believe that the privilege  would apply to Del Reka, what the purpose of the representation was or why it  would be necessary for Del Reka to be part of that communication. There is no  evidence that the lawyers were representing both sides to the prospective  agreement or any contemporaneous corroboration that the communication was jointly  intended to remain confidential.              Similarly,  GSC submitted no evidence coming from Del Reka as to what was its intent as far  as confidentiality or that it sought legal advice concerning the proposed  agreement. Lacey does not testify as to what Del Reka intended (if even  permissible) The Supplemental Lacey Declaration is also conclusory and  self-serving as to GSC’s intent. It provides no facts to support the burden on  GSC to prove this reasonable expectation, including of any agreement or  discussion with Del Reka concerning intended continued confidentiality or its  importance to Lacey’s communications with the lawyers other than very generally.  Specifically, GSC does not explain why the communications with Del Reka were  necessary for its obtaining advice from its attorneys or how that representation  advanced any shared interest in legal advice as to their common interest in the  proposed agreement, or that they had sought advice related to GSC’s agreement  with WW. “[S]haring destroys the privilege where the parties simply have  ‘overlapping interests.’” Roush, supra, 150 Cal.App.4th at  224.              That  there was no claim by WW as of the date of the email is irrelevant. See Oxy  and STI, supra. The issue is whether there was a basis for both parties to  believe the communications would remain confidential. This does not appear  contingent on what WW had then claimed. If GSC or Del Reka believed that WW  might make a claim then they might have agreed the communications should be  confidential, however, there is nothing in the Lacey Declaration from which to draw  that inference — which cannot be presumed.[1] Behunin,  supra, 9 Cal.App.5th at 844-845.     CONCLUSION              For these  reasons, the Court sustains the Objections to the clarified recommendation of  the referee, finds that there was a waiver of the privilege by GSC sharing  communications it had with its lawyer with a third party without any evidence  of a reasonable expectation by both parties of continued confidentiality,  grants the motion to compel production of an unredacted version of the email in  question, as well as the production of a privilege log showing all documents  withheld from production on this basis, both within twenty days.    