   [1] The DCFS report is significant as it apparently  outlines Nathan Berhow’s difficult home life, including the death of his father, Mark  Berhow, in December 2017 (after the father had earlier been under a Welfare & Institutions Code sec. 5150 psychiatric  review in 2015), as well as the father’s possession in the home of multiple  firearms.    [2] The kit was apparently purchased by Nathan Berhow’s  father – who may have been prohibited from possessing firearms by reason of having  undergone a “5150” review. Numerous other firearms were also allegedly located  in the Berhows’ home.    [3] Plaintiffs’ oppositions do not address the  evidentiary issue as to notice to District.    [4] The Court did not  previously address proximate cause in terms of the mere seconds involved for  District to be able to take responsive action. Whether that can be proven here  will likely be a factual issue for a jury. (See also Romero v. Los  Angeles Rams (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 562)      [5] The Court also does not find that the recent attempt  on the life of Donald Trump bears much relevance to the facts here, as District  suggests.   _____________________________________________LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT 

WEST
DISTRICT - BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE 

DEPT. 200

 

TENTATIVE RULINGS ON MOTIONS
IN LIMINE  

 

Frank
Blackwell, et al., v. William S. Hart Union High School District, et al., Case
No. 20STCV43946 (consolidated with Case No. 20STCV44103)

Hearing
Date: September 20, 2024, Time: 8:30 a.m. 

 

Plaintiffs’ Motions in Limine

 

P MIL No. 1 (collateral source payments): Plaintiffs seek to
prevent reference to money they received from community members or local
businesses after the incident, including contributions to a GoFundMe fund. District
does not generally oppose the motion but wishes to reserve its rights to file a
motion post-verdict for collateral source payments as a credit against any
liability under Gov’t Code sec. 985. Granted. The foregoing is without
prejudice to District’s right to file the referenced motion. 

P MIL No. 2 (dismissed claim against County Coroner’s
Office): Unopposed. Granted. 

P MIL No. 3 (unrelated litigation against ATF re: ghost
guns): Plaintiff Bryan Muehlberger has apparently joined with the State of California
in filing suit against the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and
Explosives (“ATF”) concerning the sale of ghost guns – that was used to kill
the parents’ children. Plaintiffs are concerned that his joinder in that suit,
together with related advocacy against the availability of ghost guns, may
unduly prejudice jurors against plaintiffs where the sale of guns is a
controversial subject matter about which people have strongly held differing
views. 

          In
opposition, District argues that the manufacturer of the ghost gun (1911Builders.com)
that was used is partly responsible for what happened and that the jury should
be asked on the verdict form to apportion liability among all responsible
persons, including the manufacturer of the ghost guns (though plaintiffs have
not sued that manufacturer.) Under Civil Code sec. 1431.2, in an action for
wrongful death, as here, “the liability of each defendant for non-economic
damage [as sought here] shall be several only and shall not be joint.” Civil
Code sec. 1431.1 sets forth the policy behind sec. 1431.2, including the
financial exposure of public agencies, such as District, if found to share even
a fraction of the responsibility of fault, and the resulting consequence to
taxpayers in the form of higher taxes and insurance premiums. (See also Vollaro
v. Lispi (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 93, 99) 

          The Court
needs to hear from plaintiffs as to their position about putting the
manufacturer, as well as the shooter’s mother, on the verdict form, where they
are not defendants and sec. 1431.2 references only defendants. If those
tortfeasors will be on the verdict form, then plaintiffs’ actions against ATF
to prohibit the manufacturer from selling ghost guns may be relevant to
apportioning responsibility to the manufacturer – in corroborating the
significance of use of ghost guns. That said, the Court is presently inclined
to deny the motion. 

 

Defendant’s Motions in Limine 

 

D MIL No. 1 (student records): District contends that
student records related to discipline and mental health assessments – that the
Court previously ordered be produced – should be excluded on grounds of
relevance, undue prejudice, lack of foundation and hearsay. Plaintiffs oppose a
blanket exclusion and argue that these records were ordered produced
establishes their authenticity and foundation, as well as that their
admissibility as business records. They do not state why these records would be
relevant or how their experts have relied on these records to reach their conclusions.


          It is not
readily apparent how these records are relevant or how experts may have used them.
That the Court ordered they be produced does not necessarily mean they are
relevant – even if the requests may have been reasonably calculated to lead to
the discovery of admissible evidence. It is not stated why the motion was
brought. That the documents may be authentic does not mean that the statements
in those records necessarily have sufficient foundation to support them or that
they would qualify under the business records exception. The parties should be
prepared to argue on this motion at the hearing and address these issues.    

D MIL No. 2 (post-accident investigations): District argues
that after-the-fact investigations are inherently unfair second-guessing and
irrelevant to what District knew beforehand, as well as irrelevant “remedial
measures.” Plaintiffs oppose the motion on the grounds that it is overbroad and
that the Los Angeles Co. Sheriff’s Dept. investigation and “murder book” may
present evidence of what District knew beforehand, as the Court relied upon in
denying the summary judgment motion, which information would not be prohibited
remedial measure evidence. 

          The Court
agrees with Plaintiffs that the motion is too broad. There may be parts of
these investigations that provide independent evidence as to what occurred
beforehand. The Court will have to decide the admissibility of that specific
information separately and depending on how it is intended to be used. That
said, the Court agrees with the District that those parts of the investigation
that go to “assessing” what occurred, or similar opinions or conclusions,
should be excluded on relevance grounds. Granted in part and denied in part.           

D MIL No. 3 (post-accident risk assessments): The arguments
and analysis of the Court are essentially the same on this motion as on MIL no.
2. Granted in part and denied in part.     


     

D MIL No. 4 (Plaintiffs’ grief, sorrow and mental suffering):
District argues that the Court should exclude this testimony where these are
not compensable in a wrongful death case and that therefore this testimony is
irrelevant. (Corder
v. Corder (2007) 41 Cal.4th 644, 661) By contrast, Plaintiffs
argue they are entitled to recover for loss of love, companionship, comfort,
affection, society, solace or moral support. (Id.)  They argue further that an order precluding
non-compensable testimony would interfere with Plaintiffs putting on evidence
on relief that is compensable and as a practical matter any such order would be
impossible to follow. Testimony as to grief, sorrow and mental suffering
is likely to evidence the extent of the compensable losses. The Court finds
these matters are likely inseparable and in any event that they are relevant to
show the extent or amount of damages, even if not themselves separately
compensable. Denied.   

 

D MIL No. 5 (Michael Dorn):

          By this
motion, District seeks to exclude considerable parts of Dorn’s opinion –
previously filed in opposition to its motion for summary judgment – summarized
in the motion by a table of 32 of his statements. Nearly all the objections to
these statements are premised on alleged lack of foundation, misstating
testimony of other witnesses or representing legal conclusions. Plaintiffs dispute
each of these contentions. 

          Plaintiffs
also argue that the Court cannot consider these objections until hearing the
evidence they intend to put on at trial to lay that foundation and for the
Court to evaluate the accuracy of the facts Dorn is relying upon or drawing
conclusions from. (Kelly v. New West Federal Savings (1996) 49 Cal. App.
4th 659, 670-671(no intelligent ruling on admissibility can be made until the
evidence is actually offered, so the court can know its relevance in context,
its probative value, and its potential for prejudice), Kinda v. Carpenter
(2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 1268, 1282 (resolving evidentiary conflicts
is not properly done on a motion in limine. All inferences and conflicts should
be resolved in favor of the nonmoving party.))

          The Court cannot
assess these objections at this time without knowing what the underlying
case-specific evidence will be. The Court continues this motion until after Plaintiffs
have put on all evidence they intend to rely as foundation for calling Dorn as
an expert witness.   

 

D Amended MIL No. 6 (limiting expert opinions to those stated
at depositions):

           By this
motion, District seeks to preclude Plaintiffs’ experts stating opinions not set
forth during their depositions, including as to foundational evidence. (Kenneumur
v. State of Calif. (1982) 133 Cal.App.3d 907) Plaintiffs oppose the motion
on the basis that in this case Plaintiffs did not question their experts as to
all the opinions in their declarations and therefore these experts should not
be precluded from giving opinions about subjects not inquired into. Instead,
they contend, in essence, that any order should not be any broader than those
opinions set forth in their experts’ declarations that were available to
District at the depositions. 

          As noted
above concerning MIL No. 5, whether there is sufficient foundation for the
opinions will be decided separately. Consequently, the Court is not now, for
example, hereby excluding the opinions as to student surveys and the campus
surveyor which depend upon laying a foundation. (DePalma v. Rodriguez
(2007) 151 Cal. App. 4th 159, 165 (where expert’s trial testimony is “merely an
expanded description and interpretation of the conclusions stated in his
deposition testimony;” a party is required to disclose the “substance of the
facts and opinions to which the expert will testify … this does not require
disclosure of specific facts and opinions” (quotations omitted)) 

          The Court
adopts the foregoing limitation Plaintiffs note as to matters set forth in
their declarations but otherwise grants the motion. 

 

D MIL No. 7 (school resource officers): 

          By this
motion, District seeks to exclude any testimony concerning school resource
officers (“SRO’s”). The basis for the motion is Government Code sec. 845. Sec.
845 states in relevant part: “Neither a public entity nor a public employee is
liable for failure to establish a police department or otherwise to provide
police protection service or, if police protection service is provided, for
failure to provide sufficient police protection service.” District argues that
as a result Plaintiffs’ experts should not be able to opine that the shootings
could have been avoided had District had in place police or other security.
SRO’s have a security function. District argues that the lack of police
presence is a political and budgetary issue that District cannot be held
responsible for making. (Zelig v. County of Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.4th
1112, 1142) 

          Plaintiffs
argue that the motion is effectively a motion for summary adjudication –
prohibited under LASC Local Rule 3.57(b). Moreover, District already brought a
motion for summary judgment and tellingly that was not on this basis. They
argue further that in any event sec. 845 is in that part of the Government Code
concerning  administration of law
enforcement facilities and has no application here. They point to Regents of
Univ. of California v. Superior Ct. (2018) 4 Cal. 5th 607, 613 as support
for the proposition that sec. 845 has no application in a school setting
concerning security measures. Finally, they argue that the motion is backhanded
means of avoiding testimony related to the SRO’s monitoring of a “text-a-tip”
line at the school to facilitate reports of certain behavior or activity – that
may be relevant here.   

          Initially,
while this motion would if granted substantially change the theory of the case,
by precluding experts’ key opinions, it is not per se a motion for summary
adjudication as there may still be other reasons District has liability. That
said, it is not clear why District waited to raise this issue earlier and avoid
further litigation if it was meritorious. 

          In any event, sec. 845 pertains merely
to “police” functions. It does not pertain more broadly to “security”
functions. That a school does not have a “police” presence, with the power of a
sworn officer to potentially detain someone, does not mean a school should not
have necessary other ”security,” including security guards. See Regents,
supra, 4 Cal.5th at 627 (while a school was immune from
liability for failing to provide adequate police protection, it still had a “special
relationship” with its students giving rise to a duty to warn them of known
dangers by criminals on campus), Lopez v. So. Calif. Rapid Transit District
(1985) 40 Cal.3d 780 (rejecting immunity based on sec. 845) and Leger v.
Stockton Unified School Dist. (1988) 202 Cal.App.3d 1448, 1463)[1]
(See also BAJI 3.13.1 and CACI 411) 

          As with the duties of private parties for criminal wrongdoing
by third persons to those visiting a business, the business may have no duty to
provide burdensome or expensive measures to protect its customers, such as
security guards, but that does not excuse providing minimal measures to protect
a customer. (Delgado v. Trax Bar & Grill (2005) 36 Cal.4th 224, 240,
Marois v. Royal Inv. & Patrol (1984) 162 Cal.App.3d 193) See also
BAJI 11.51.3 (negligent supervision by school district supervisors to use
reasonable measures to protect students from foreseeable injury at hands of
third persons)   

         
In short, for these purposes, the lack of police presence does not mean
there is no duty of care or make the subject of this motion irrelevant. 

          Given the
foregoing, the Court does not need to reach whether District had some ulterior
purpose in bringing this motion. 

Denied. 

 

D MIL No. 8 (Greg Block): 

          District
also seeks to exclude Plaintiffs offering the opinion of their other expert,
Greg Block, on the basis, initially, of Gov’t Code sec. 845, discussed above,
as well as under the theory that Plaintiffs would not be able to establish that
the lack of security could have been the proximate cause of the shootings. (Antique
Arts Corp. v. City of Torrance (1974) 39 Cal.App.3d 588, 590) In addition,
as with Dorn, District has specific objections to numerous statements from his
declaration that are outlined in the motion.  

           For the
reasons stated above as to MIL No. 7, the Court denies the motion to the extent
it is based upon Gov’t Code sec. 845. 

          The Court
also denies the motion based on the claim that Block cannot testify to District’s
lack of security measures because those could not have been the proximate cause
of what occurred here. The Court ruled already in denying summary judgment that
proximate cause is a factual issue that will need to be tried. For the same
reason, this issue is not amenable to decision now on a motion in limine. Moreover,
the facts in Antique Arts, supra, concern the time taken to dispatch
police for a commercial robbery. Here, by contrast, the jury is faced with
assessing what security there should have been both for and after the shooting.
The Court will revisit this issue after hearing the evidence in finalizing what
instructions to give the jury. 

         For the reasons stated above as to MIL No.
5, the Court cannot now assess the objections to various statements in Block’s
declaration without knowing what the underlying case-specific evidence will be.
The Court continues this motion – as to these issues - until after Plaintiffs
have put on all evidence they intend to rely as foundation for calling Block as
an expert witness.   

 

D MIL No. 9 (expert testimony relating to other school
districts or other incidents):

           By this
motion, District seeks to exclude Plaintiffs’ expert testimony that relies on
other school shootings on the basis that this would be hearsay (see People
v. Sanchez (2016) 63 Cal. 4th 665) and on relevance grounds. What occurred
elsewhere may well be different than what occurred here and hence is not
probative. 

          Plaintiffs
acknowledge that they will submit supporting foundational evidence as to what
happened at the School to support these opinions but that “background facts” as
to what is known generally as to shootings at other schools are not
case-specific and hence may be hearsay an expert can rely upon. (People v.
Curiel (2023) 15 Cal. 5th 433, 457-458, People v. Veamatahau (2020)
9 Cal. 5th 16) In turn, they indicate that shootings at other schools are
relevant to proving foreseeability. (Achay v. Huntington Beach Union High
School Dist. (2022) 80 Cal. App. 5th 528, 535-36) (“Foreseeability is
determined in light of all the circumstances and does not require prior
identical events or injuries.”) (See also D.Z. v. Los Angeles Unified
School District (2019) 35 Cal. App. 5th 210, 230-31) Moreover, District’s
own safety expert, Rick Schmitt, similarly relies on what occurred at other
schools as to shootings in reaching his opinion. 

Denied. 

 

D MIL No. 10 (DCFS request or report):

          Key to District’s
motion is the following: 

“On June 6, 2016, more than three years before the shooting,
the Department of Child and Family Services (“DCFS”) allegedly faxed to Arroyo
Seco Junior High School (part of the Hart District) a 5-page Request for School
Records and Report (“request”) relating to Nathan. Ex. E. In their Opposition
to the District’s motion for summary judgment, plaintiffs attached a DCFS
report (“report”) to the back of that 5-page request, which was combined as
their Exhibit 15. Ex. F. This report references events that occurred up to July
26, 2016, more than one month after the fax. For unknown reasons, the
plaintiffs attached this report to the request, and informed the Court that
this was one contiguous document received by the District. As will be
discussed, the plaintiffs altered these documents, as it is clear that the
report was not attached to the request. In fact, the report was never sent to
the District. Indeed, plaintiffs attached Exhibit No. 13 to their Opposition to
the District’s motion for summary judgment, an August 25, 2020 LA County
Sheriff report, labeled LASD Murder Book, which states: “On December 4, 2015,
an investigation with [DCFS] was opened. The entire [DCFS] Cumulative Folder
will be made a permanent part of this case file.” Ex. G. The report therefore
was part of this investigation of Berhow’s crime, and not a part of the DCFS
request. The report was never sent to the District and must be excluded at the
time of Trial.” 

          The motion goes on to provide other
indicia supporting this claim. As a result, District seeks to exclude Plaintiffs’
experts’ opinions that rely on the request or report where District did not
have those before the shootings in November 2019 and hence cannot be a basis
for Plaintiffs to contend the shootings were reasonably foreseeable. 

          Further, to the extent the request or
report are received into evidence, District seek to exclude their opinions since
they do not have the mental health or trauma expertise on the applicable
standard of care or necessary course of conduct after receipt of “red flag”
information. 

          Plaintiffs oppose the motion on for
grounds: 1. The motion is based only on argument of counsel, not evidence. 2.
The request and report are highly relevant to foreseeability. 3. Dorn is well
qualified to testify to the significance of these documents. 4. The motion is
untimely to the extent it goes beyond permitted in limine ruling as to expert
testimony.

          The motion is timely. The foundation
for an expert’s opinion – that is raised by questioning the admissibility of
documents on which he relies- is permissibly the subject of a motion in limine.


          The Court concurs with Plaintiffs
that whether these documents are admissible depends on hearing from witnesses,
not counsel. The Court does not have that witness testimony. This testimony
will likely need to be heard at an Evid. Code sec. 402 hearing – absent
stipulation that prior declarations offered on the motion for summary judgment
can be used instead. 

          The Court also concurs with
Plaintiffs that these documents are highly relevant to foreseeability and hence
the importance of determining that they may permissibly be relied upon by the
experts as “case-specific” facts. Even if shootings may be generally foreseeable
on some level pursuant to the authorities cited, whether the District also had
”red flags” as to the shooter here – about which the expert opines -  it is incumbent on the Court as gatekeeper to
ensure there is a basis for that opinion before it is heard by the jury. 

          That said, the Court does not
question Dorn’s qualification to address how the District should have addressed
the contents of these documents assuming the District then had them. 

HEAR FURTHER ARGUMENT

 

D MIL No. 11 (playing video of shooting past last gunshot):


          District
argues that playing this video – it concedes is relevant – would be unduly
prejudicial. (Akers v. Miller (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 1143,
1147 (the jury had already heard extensive expert testimony on the bedsore’s
size and condition, and the autopsy photos had no bearing on the central issue
of whether reasonable medical care could have prevented it), People v.
Gibson (1976) 56 Cal. App. 3d 119 (abuse of discretion for the trial court
to have admitted photographs of the deceased, which the court described as
“gruesome, revolting, and shocking to ordinary sensibilities” where little
probative value, cumulative and likely to inflame the jury)) 

          Plaintiffs
argue the motion is untimely as it does not concern expert testimony. All other
motions in limine should have already been filed pursuant to earlier orders. On
the merits, they argue that the video also shows how long it took District to
come to the children’s rescue and hence its probative value outweighs any
prejudicial effect. (People v. Bell (2019) 7 Cal.5th 70, 106
(trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting an unredacted video of a
victim dying from a gunshot, although the Court acknowledged that the video was
“unpleasant,” it was not “so gruesome” as to prevent the jury from carrying out
its duty), People v. Parker (2022) 13 Cal.5th. 1 (Although gruesome, the
court determined that the photos were highly relevant because they “provided
jurors with visual information beyond what testimony could offer,” including
bolstering testimony about the nature and method of the offense.))

          The Court
finds the motion timely given the unique function of motions in limine, as
contrasted to other motions, in that they pertain to avoiding prejudice during
trial. Inasmuch as objections can be asserted to receipt of evidence at trial, and
trial has not begun, it is not too late to raise objections by pre-trial motion
that would otherwise interfere with trial. For this reason, a ruling on a
motion in limine is by its nature not final and remains open to reconsideration
during trial. (People v. Yarbrough (1991) 227 Cal.App.3d 1650, 1655
["[I]n limine rulings are not binding because the trial court has the
power to reconsider, modify or set aside its order at any time prior to the
submission of the cause."].))

          On the
merits, it is apparent from the cited decisions that courts have in their
discretion reached different conclusions in evaluation of this issue that
likely turns of the facts in each case and the totality of the specific
circumstances. Though Plaintiffs have demonstrated some probative value to the
photographs – in terms of demonstrating delay in coming to the scene thereafter
– in fairness to the District the Court believes it should itself see the video
before making this decision in terms of seeing how difficult it may be to watch
it. District should bring the video to the hearing for the Court to view. 

 

D MIL No. 12 (showing video of shooting during voir
dire): 

          As
contrasted to the last motion, District here seeks an order that the jurors should
be shown a video of the shootings (as opposed to a video of what occurred after
the shootings) during voir dire so that counsel can question jurors on their
ability to remain fair after having watched the video. 

          Plaintiffs
argue the motion is untimely for the same reasons stated in opposition to MIL
no. 11. They also make the following two principal arguments on the merits: 

          First, showing
only the 10 seconds of shootings on the video as opposed to the whole 45
minutes Berhow was at the schoolyard before the shooting improperly construes
the evidence in favor of the District where Plaintiffs are contending the
District could and should have taken protective measures before the shootings
given his apparent behavior. 

          Second, showing
the video during voir dire or in mini opening statement would be impermissible preconditioning
of jurors and improperly obtaining a juror’s advisory opinion based upon a
preview of the evidence. (Alcazar v. Los Angeles Unified School Dist.
(2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 86, 97 (informing potential jurors of case specific facts
to obtain advisory opinions constituted an improper use of voir dire), People
v. Heltzer (2024) 15 Cal.5th 622, 662-663 (questions which asked
whether jurors would reach a decision based on case-specific facts essentially
asked the jurors to prejudge the facts of the case))   

          The Court
finds the motion timely for a different reason than with MIL No. 11:
Technically, this is not a MIL at all. It is in fact a request that the Court compel
viewing of the video – the opposite of prohibiting its viewing. The Court treats
the motion as one for the Court to exercise its discretion as to placing reasonable
limits on questions in the voir dire process pursuant to CCP sec. 222.5. 

          On the
merits, The Court infers that Plaintiffs object to the playing of any part of
the video during voir-dire and any mini-opening statements for the reasons
stated. If so, the Court finds they have the better of the argument. If they
wish to show some of the video during that part of trial, Plaintiffs should
bring the video to the hearing so the Court can determine what length of the
video, if at all, would be “reasonable.”  Denied. 



