 Case Number:  20STCV43946    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  200 LOS ANGELES  SUPERIOR COURT  WEST  DISTRICT - BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE  DEPT. 200   TENTATIVE RULING ON MOTION  OF DEFENDANT SCHOOL DISTRICT TO BIFURCATE ISSUES OF LIABILITY FROM DAMAGES AT  TRIAL    Frank  Blackwell, et al., v. William S. Hart Union High School District, et al., Case  No. 20STCV43946 (consolidated with Case No. 20STCV44103) Hearing  Date: September 20, 2024, Time: 8:30 a.m.    BACKGROUND AND STATEMENT OF CONTENTIONS            In this case, the respective  parents of two children, Dominic Blackwell and Gracie Anne Muehlberger - who were  shot and killed on November 14, 2019 by a fellow student at Saugus High School,  Nathan Berhow (who then killed himself) while they were on school grounds -  bring this action for wrongful death against defendant Willaim S. Hart Union  High School District (“the District.”)            In the order denying District’s  motion for summary judgment, Judge Stephen Pfahler held there was a duty of  care on the part of the District to prevent what occurred here, finding “the  circumstances regarding the general awareness of potential campus gun violence  and need for safety protocol presents a reasonable baseline foundation of a  specific duty for enacting protections of student-on-student gun violence.” (See also Regents of Univ. of Ca. v. Superior Court (2018) 4 Cal.5th  607, 629-630) In addition, the Court found there was a basis for a specific  duty for this incident here where “District was also aware of the student’s  abusive domestic home life troubles…the court concludes the content of the DCFS  report can lead to a reasonable inference of a ‘red flag’ warning for potential  violence based on case law and expert testimony.” (See also Achay v.  Huntington Beach Union H.S. Dist. (2022) 80 Cal.App.5th 528,  536) The Court did not address whether a breach of duty was a “proximate cause”  of what happened as this was a question of fact. The Court, however,  granted summary adjudication in favor of District as to the alleged dangerous  condition of campus as contributing to this tragedy.             On August 1, 2024,  the District timely filed the above-referenced motion before the final status  conference. District seeks an order pursuant to CCP secs. 598 and or 1048(b) that  the jury determine whether it has liability prior to considering damages if it  determines liability. Damages here are solely non-economic and will require  solely Plaintiffs’ testimony. The  motion is premised on a claim that District’s alleged liability is “specious”  where the District purportedly did not know of any special issues that would  raise a red flag as to Nathan Berhow, as well as that damages are necessarily so  emotionally charged that it would be unduly prejudicial to District in  defending the liability claim to also have to at the same time defend against the  parents’ suffering that it readily acknowledges. The writ petition attached to  the motion contends the Court made an evidentiary error in concluding that the  District received the DCFS report prior to the shootings based upon its  inclusion in the “murder book” that was part of the investigation thereafter.[1]            District also contends this case is  governed by C.I. v. San Bernardino City Unified School District (2022)  82 Cal.App.5th 974 and that District had no legal duty to prevent what Nathan Berhow  did. In C.I., the Court affirmed an order granting summary judgment in  favor of a school district where a teacher was shot at school by an estranged  spouse, finding that a third party shooting on campus was “unforeseeable” so as  to give rise to any duty of care to prevent, also taking into consideration  public policy factors disfavoring liability of school districts as would-be  insurers of safety from others’ intentional wrongful conduct.              District argues further that the  Court needs to consider that Berhow, his mother, Mami Matsuura-Berhow, and the  company that created the kit containing the components of the gun that Berhow  used, 1911Builders.com, are also tortfeasors (even if not parties).[2]  Their responsibility should be considered by the jury and damages apportioned  accordingly on the verdict form.            On August 27, 2024, Plaintiffs Frank  and Nancy Blackwell filed opposition to the motion. Plaintiffs Bryan and Cindy Muehlberger  also filed separate opposition to the motion. The Court treats these  oppositions together as their position is the same. They make the following key  points:  -           The  evidence they presented in opposition to the motion for summary judgment  demonstrates the validity of their case on numerous grounds. This is not an  opportunity to re-litigate that motion.  -           A  jury having to deliberate after hearing only concerning liability - and  depending on their decision - having to then hear further evidence skews how  jurors may decide the case. Normal procedure is for deliberations to be after  evidence, not in the middle.   -           The  jury will already know about the deaths in voir dire and therefore any undue  sympathy will already be implicated. Not hearing about damage from what  occurred does not avoid this concern where it is a known issue already.   -           Just  as it may help defendant to hear only about liability it hurts plaintiffs to  not be allowed to tell the whole story at one time. There is not good  cause to deviate from normal procedure -- to Plaintiffs’ prejudice. Bifurcated  trials are the exception to the rule and are not justified here.  -           The  effect of District’s reasoning would mean all wrongful death cases should be  bifurcated.  -           The  motion does not show how bifurcation would create efficiencies. Trial may in  fact take longer – with two sets of opening statements and closing arguments,  instructions and deliberations.  -           Instructions  are the proper solution as to emotional testimony of Plaintiffs. (CACI 3922) (See Krouse v. Graham (1977) 19 Cal.3d 59, 69) -           Under  CCP sec. 607, plaintiffs are to present their evidence before defendants. Having  the evidence presented consistent with sec. 607, as opposed to the way District  proposes, defendants will be able to lessen the effect of Plaintiffs’ testimony  by putting on their case before the matter goes to the jury.  -           84%  of witness time, per the joint witness list, would concern liability in  any event and not hearing damages evidence at the same time would not thereby  save any significant time if it was determined there was no liability.            On September 3, 2024, District filed  a Reply in support of its motion. It does not disagree with certain of  Plaintiffs’ points but disagrees that instructions concerning sympathy will  suffice to prevent a jury deciding the case based on passion.     DISCUSSION            The Court sustains  the objections of Plaintiffs to the consideration of pleadings filed in another  case apparently brought by a student who survived the incident at issue here.             The relevant factors  to consider under CCP secs. 598 and 1048(b) on a motion to bifurcate are as  follows: 1. Furthering the convenience of parties and witnesses. 2. Avoiding  prejudice. 3. Encouraging expedition. 4. Promoting economy. 5. Serving the ends  of justice.            Initially, the Court does not find  that bifurcation would likely save any appreciable amount of time. The time for  Plaintiffs to testify – that would be avoided if the jury found there was no  liability - is relatively nominal compared to the amount of time on liability. Plaintiffs’  above-referenced estimation of time saved is probably fairly accurate. There are  not damages experts here on this wrongful death case whose time would be  avoided – where bifurcation might make more sense. In turn, if the jury finds  there is liability, it is likely that more time than would otherwise have been  spent will result because the jury will have to deliberate twice. Therefore,  bifurcation here would not “encourage expedition” or “promote economy.” In  addition, there was nothing submitted to show bifurcation would “further the  convenience of parties and witnesses.”            In turn, that there may be tortfeasors  other than the District is not material for bifurcation purposes. Even if liability  were fully or partly apportioned to those persons, no time is saved. Whether  District itself has any liability likely does not turn on whether there are  other tortfeasors but rather the factors referenced above that were considered  on summary judgment.             The Court does not find District’s  potential liability as “specious.” The Court denied its motion for summary  judgment. However, whether Plaintiffs have a strong case or a weak case against  District is immaterial and is an issue in any event for a jury. It is not strictly  a relevant factor for purposes of whether to bifurcate. While “serving the ends  of justice” is a factor, this cannot be read to mean that justice would be  served by the court concluding here one side or the other is likely to prevail  and hence that this issue deserves to be bifurcated.            District’s position is that it had no  red flags to warn it to take special precautions. Plaintiffs’ apparent position  is that District had the DCFS report beforehand, consistent with the ruling on  summary judgment.[3]  Hence, District’s position that there was no specific reason for it to have  foreseen what would happen conflicts with the prior ruling. Even assuming the Court  were to exclude the DCFS report (based on the motion in limine), and the  resulting red flag, it is unclear if there might not still be prospective  liability: This is not a case where the court can readily conclude there is  little likelihood Plaintiffs will prevail and hence it would be an obvious  waste to also hear from them as to their damages before the jury deliberates. Finally,  Judge Pfahler found a factual distinction between this case and C.I., supra,  separate and apart from whether District was on specific notice as to Mark  Berhow, in that a teenager was involved here as opposed to an adult in C.I.  as far as the foreseeability of risk of violence. Hence, whether District can  avoid liability pursuant to C.I. remains to be seen.[4]            The real issue here is whether  bifurcation would “avoid prejudice.” The Court acknowledges that this is the  kind of case where the decision as to liability is a very significant one and  that this should be decided on its merits without other considerations. However,  the jurors will already know what this wrongful death case is about through  voir dire, and or mini-opening statements, and hence the potential prejudice  District seeks to avoid will already be present, i.e., sympathy for Plaintiffs over  their loss that impacts the jury’s decision-making. On the other hand, if trial  is not bifurcated, and District puts on its case after Plaintiffs, there would  not be the situation where the last evidence the jurors hear before  deliberating is Plaintiffs’ testimony. Instead, they will have heard the  testimony that supports finding no liability or why other tortfeasors may be  responsible.            Further, the Court can help deter undue sympathy by providing additional  instructions as to sympathy at the outset, if needed, as well as again at the  end before deliberations. (E.g., CACI 100, 1113 and 5000) In addition,  consistent with District’s motion in limine to preclude Plaintiffs testifying  to their grief, sorrow and mental suffering occasioned by the death of their  children, under Corder v. Corder (2007) 41 Cal.4th 644, 661,  jurors can also be instructed that these are not compensable. The Court will  not infer jurors will necessarily reach an erroneous decision merely because they  also hear about Plaintiffs’ damages.            Ultimately, the Court does not find  that the “emotionally charged” nature of damages here present exceptional  circumstances that warrant deviating from normal trial procedure, including for  other wrongful death cases.[5]      CONCLUSION            For these reasons,  the Court denies the motion.      