   [1] Judge Recana inferred there would be a shared  interest on Del Reka’s part if there was one on GSC’s part. However, GSC has  not produced the necessary evidence from which a court might make that  inference, if permitted.________________________________LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT WEST DISTRICT -
BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE DEPT. 200 TENTATIVE
RULING ON GOLDEN STATE CIDER’S MOTIONS IN LIMINE A, E, F and J AND WINE
WAREHOUSE’S MOTIONS IN LIMINE 2, 3, 4, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13 and 14 AND TO BIFURCATE
 Ben Myerson Candy
Co., Inc., dba Wine Warehouse v. Devoto-Wade LLC, dba Golden State Cider, and
related cross-complaint, Case No. 19STCV30463Hearing Date:
September 20, 2024, 10:00 a.m.  GSC’s MIL A          GSC seeks to
exclude distribution agreements it entered with various parties in connection
with the termination of the distribution agreement with WW. GSC argues that to
allow these agreements to be reviewed by a jury would be prejudicial because
they have a termination fee that is double the termination fee in the agreement
between GSC and WW. Hence, were WW to proceed on its quantum meruit theory then
conceivably WW could seek twice the damages it might otherwise be entitled to under
their agreement. GSC argues that this would be “apples and oranges” because the
terms of those agreements are different to those in the agreement between the
parties. However, this concern is no longer applicable because by order filed
May 31, 2023, the Court granted GSC’s motion for summary adjudication of the
quantum meruit cause of action in WW’s complaint. Moreover, WW contends there
are independent reasons why it should be allowed to introduce these agreements;
namely, that GSC entering into these agreements is proof that GSC did not
intend to honor its exclusive agreement with WW, that these other agreements
provide evidence of what WW was reasonably expected of WW under the agreement,
as well as that GSC was not going to receive services from these distributors
over and above what WW was to have performed that would provide GSC any cause
to terminate the agreement with GSC. GSC does not address these points. The
Court finds that these are relevant issues and that therefore WW should not be
precluded from introducing these agreements. DENIED.  GSC’s MIL E           On this
motion, the parties argue over whether certain information should be excluded
that concerns the reasonable value of WW’s services to GSC for purposes of WW’s
quantum meruit cause of action. However, as referenced above, after those
papers were filed, the Court granted summary adjudication of the quantum meruit
cause of action. Therefore, there is no reason to exclude the evidence in
question where there would not appear any reason why WW would need to introduce
that evidence.  DENIED. GSC’s MIL F          On this
motion, the parties argue over whether WW should be bound by its admission that
the parties’ agreement is enforceable. WW opposes the motion on the basis that
it is designed to preclude its quantum meruit cause of action. Again, that
concern is no longer applicable. By the same token, there appears no longer any
need for the motion either. DENIED.  GSC’s MIL J          On this
motion, GSC seeks to exclude evidence that would support WW now dismissed
quasi-contract (quantum meruit) cause of action. WW argues the motion is
untimely and moreover is too general as if granted it would thereby also
preclude WW asserting why GSC breached the agreement. The Court finds the
motion is timely – consistent with concurrently also allowing WW to continue to
assert an objection to an earlier ruling though not addressed sooner. On the other
hand, LASC Local Rule 3.57(a)(1) requires the motion to specifically identify
the matter alleged to be inadmissible or prejudicial. Here, the motion fails to
meet either requirement. Moreover, by failing to specify the evidence in
question, WW’s argument that granting this motion might effectively preclude
its putting on its case as to breach of agreement is valid. These claims
overlap. DENIED.   WW’s MIL 1:           WW seeks to
exclude GSC from introducing evidence related to its potential acquisition in
2013 as irrelevant to what occurred here in 2019. As contrasted to the
acquisition of GSC, that goes to the value of GSC which is in issue, the value
of WW is not at issue. In opposition, GSC argues that the value of WW would
reflect the value of the lost services by reason of termination of the
agreement for purposes of WW’s quantum meruit cause of action. Again, this
motion was filed before the summary adjudication ruling. Hence, GSC no longer
has a need for this evidence. By contrast, the terms of any subsequent
acquisition are not relevant to what occurred in 2019. GRANTED.    WW’s MIL 2          WW seeks to
exclude GSC offering evidence of lawsuits involving WW. WW argues that disputes
it has had with other customers, for example, are irrelevant to the issues here
and moreover would result in needlessly extending trial to explain what those
other suits were about. (Evid. Code sec. 352) GSC opposes the motion on the
basis that these suits would show a “pattern” of wrongdoing by WW. In turn, GSC
asserts that this wrongdoing is relevant to its claim for punitive damages and
whether there was “fraud, oppression or malice.” GSC notes the significance of
the Roots Run Deep case. The Court agrees with WW that evidence of a
lawsuit itself should be excluded under sec. 352. In addition, the Court
rejects GSC’s arguments that whether there is a “pattern” of conduct is
relevant here and that conduct involving WW and third parties is necessary to
hear to establish any basis for punitive damages. That said, this motion does
not preclude GSC from calling witnesses who may have been involved in other
suits with WW, or offer admissions, to identify conduct by WW if relevant to
what occurred here and or to rebut evidence offered by WW. After hearing that
testimony there may then be a basis for the witness to testify that there was a
lawsuit with WW on such matters that the Court has found already to be
relevant.  GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED IN
PART.  WW’s MIL 3          WW seeks to
exclude evidence as to its financial status, including its relative wealth,
overall revenues and that it is financially sound on the basis that this may
prejudice a jury, consistent with CACI 117. GSC opposes the motion on the basis
that WW’s “resources” and its “organization” are critical to its claim that WW
could have but did not perform in a reasonable manner in distributing GSC’s
products. The Court finds, however, that GSC should be able to (and is
permitted to) explore the level of WW’s resources and the extent of its
organization without also going into the more specific concerns WW seeks to
exclude. GSC cannot argue or infer that any damage it incurred does not matter
because of its financial status. Further, GSC’s argument that this subject is
relevant to its claim for punitive damages is not material here where the Court’s
tentative ruling is to grant the motion to bifurcate that issue. Therefore,
WW’s financial status does not need to be part of the first phase of trial
before any of the applicable findings have been made that might allow punitive
damages. GRANTED.    WW’s MIL 4          WW seeks to
exclude any evidence of wrongdoing by WW’s counsel, or similar ethical issues,
by reason of either the claims that led to the motion to disqualify or by
reason of issues that arose during the discovery process. GSC argues the motion
is unnecessary, overbroad and to the extent it is granted should be mutual and
preclude any claims being made about GSC’s counsel. After filing of the motion
and opposition, by order filed May 30, 2023, the Court denied GSC’s motion to
disqualify WW’s counsel. The Court did not find any wrongdoing by counsel – who
did not know that other lawyers at the same firm were representing the lender
on the sale of GSC to another entity and hence why there was no “screening.” There
does not therefore appear to be any reason why GSC would now make any such
claims as to any wrongdoing arising out of the Buchalter firm also representing
the lender. Similalrly, the Court does not find any need for an order about how
either side’s lawyers conducted discovery.  The Court can address any such issues by way
of objections during trial. DENIED.   WW’s MIL 8          WW seeks to
exclude a 2016 U-Tube video made by Econo Air CEO Mike Richards regarding WW
allegedly having excessive temperature at its facilities such that its products
were damaged. WW argues this statement is hearsay, as well as irrelevant to the
issues here where this was not one of the reasons GSC asserted three years
later in terminating the agreement that is at issue. Further, WW argues undue
prejudice. GSC opposes the motion on the basis that it will offer a witness at
trial to lay the necessary foundation for admissibility of the video and that it
is relevant to the level of service WW provided – which is at issue. Finally,
GSC argues the video is not unduly prejudicial. The Court finds as follows:
Without foundation testimony subject to cross-examination, the video is
inadmissible hearsay. Whether the Court would allow that testimony will depend
on whether WW’s storage of customer products was one of the reasons GSC
terminated the agreement. GSC’s opposition does not state it was one of the
reasons where WW contends it was not stated as a reason. If the testimony is
relevant and lays the necessary foundation, it may be that then GSC can use the
video, notwithstanding the claim of prejudice. GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED IN
PART.  WW’s MIL 9          WW seeks to
exclude certain rude and or sexist comments one of its employees, Peter Elzer,
made concerning GSC’s co-founder, Jolie Devoto. WW anticipates Devoto, as well
one of its experts, Kimberly Clements, will testify to these statement as
reflecting WW’s lack of professionalism and harassing conduct. WW argues that
these comments – it does not dispute – are still not relevant to the issue here
concerning how WW performed under the agreement and are unduly prejudicial. By
contrast, GSC argues that these statements substantiate the bad faith it is
asserting by WW in breach of its covenant to perform its obligations under the
agreement. GSC also asserts these disparaging statements are relevant to its
cause of action for defamation, as well as intentional interference with
prospective economic advantage. The Court finds that these statements appear
relevant to GSC’s claims – even if they were not discovered until later. They
may also be relevant to the claims of “oppression and malice.” While these
statements may be prejudicial to WW, the issue is whether they would be
“unduly” prejudicial. The significance of these statements are issues for a
jury to decide, not for a judge to exclude. DENIED.   WW’s MIL 10         WW seeks to
exclude as hearsay statements allegedly made by retailers that WW made
defamatory statements to them concerning GSC, including that GSC was going out
of business, was in a sale to Anhueser-Busch, was no longer available and or
had been sold. GSC opposes the motion on the basis that the motion is not
specific as to who allegedly made these statements or what precisely WW seeks
to exclude and hence is an improper motion. Moreover, GSC asserts that WW
already authenticated an e-mail from a retailer (BevMo) concerning receiving a
“frantic” call as to WW taking GSC off the shelves. In addition, GSC argues
these statements would fall under the state of mind and business records
exceptions. The Court finds as follows: The motion is too broad to be decided
now and does not focus on specific statements. The motion also does not
establish undue prejudice from the admissibility of these issues being decided
during trial as opposed to having to be decided before trial by motion in
limine. The circumstances and who is testifying may be significant. However,
that WW acknowledged the authenticity of the e-mail does not mean the
statements in it are not hearsay. In turn, it is not clear whose state of mind
would be in question or why the business records exception would apply to this
one-time event. DENIED.  WW’s MIL 12          By this
motion, WW seeks to exclude GSC’s distribution industry expert, Kimberly
Clements, from testifying. The basis for the motion is that after having been
designated as an expert by GSC Clements took on an assignment for a beer
manufacturer in connection with performing due diligence as to whether her
client would consent to a sale of WW to another company and resulting transfer
of the distribution agreement. WW provided confidential information to Clements
on the basis that she would not disclose it to anyone other than in connection
with her other assignment. WW contends that Clements now would use this
information in aid of GSC, notwithstanding that she was not given that
information for this purpose. GSC opposes the motion on the basis that GSC
itself did not receive any of the confidential information, and counsel made
sure it did not do so on notice of this notice. In addition, out of an
abundance of caution GSC intended to withdraw Clements as an expert and would
instead substitute another expert pursuant to CCP sec. 2034.620. In view of GSC
withdrawing Clements as a witness and there being no evidence GSC itself has
this confidential information, there is no longer cause for this motion.
DENIED.   WW’s MIL 13          By this
motion, WW seeks two orders: First, that GSC is precluded from offering
evidence that it was fraudulently induced to enter into the distribution
agreement. Second, that GSC is precluded from contending that the agreement is
unenforceable. The basis for the motion that GSC previously represented that it
was not making either of these claims in conjunction with the Court granting
GSC’s motion for summary adjudication of WW’s cause of action in quantum
meruit. WW argues that judicial estoppel now precludes GSC arguing otherwise.
GSC argues in opposition that while it represented that the agreement was
enforceable and that it was not seeking to invalidate the agreement based on
fraud, this motion would also prohibit the evidence GSC seeks to offer that WW
committed fraud and to defend against WW’s claim for a termination fee. GSC
points to Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645
for the proposition that there is a distinction between seeking to invalidate
an agreement based on fraudulent inducement and electing to affirm the contract
and still be able to sue for fraud. GSC contends that it is proceeding the
latter route which entitles it to bring an affirmative case for fraud on its
cross-complaint and defend against WW’s cause of action for breach of contract
in its complaint for the termination fee based on fraudulent representations. The
Court finds Lazar supports GSC’s argument. GSC is precluded from arguing
fraudulent inducement but not fraud or the defense of fraud on WW’s claim. GSC
is precluded from arguing that the agreement is unenforceable. GRANTED IN PART
AND DENIED IN PART.  WW’s MIL 14          By this
motion, WW seeks three orders: First, to preclude evidence of GSC’s
communications with subsequent distributors GSC did not reveal in discovery or
that its PMK could not recall at his deposition. Lacey should not be allowed to
testify to matters he could not previously recall or did not answer concerning.
Second, to preclude GSC asserting communications between GSC and Sonoma Craft
Holdings (“Sonoma”) cannot be offered into evidence based on any asserted
common interest privilege. Third, any argument that the common interest privilege
applies here. As previously asserted, the privilege was waived as to two email with
Sonoma. GSC argues in opposition that if the PMK, Christopher Lacey, testifies
inconsistently with the deposition, WW’s remedy is to impeach him with reading
his testimony, not preclude all testimony by motion in limine. Further, GSC
denies that Lacey refused to answer questions based on the privilege. Even if
he was unprepared, the remedy is not to exclude his testimony altogether. (Maldonado
v. Superior Court (2002) 94 Cal.App.4th 1390, 1398-1399) Further,
the PMK deposition did not designate this subject for the designee to know
about. The Court finds as follows:           As to the first
request: GSC will not be able to rely on documents it should have produced
previously. However, it is not clear what was requested so that there should
now be a broad bar against documents related to other distributors. The Court
will hear the necessary objections during trial. In addition, even if documents
should have been produced, this would not preclude GSC calling witnesses as to
any such communications. Hence, an order is not justified on this count at
least before trial. In turn, WW’s remedy for any testimony inconsistent with
deposition testimony is by impeachment. A pre-trial ruling is not necessary.           As to the
second request: In its tentative decision on the objection to the referee’s
finding concerning the common interest privilege, to be heard concurrently
herewith, the Court found a waiver of the privilege as to communications with
Sonoma. In addition, the e-mail between GSC and Sonoma quoted on p. 11 of the
motion provides further evidence that there was no agreement as to any common
privilege. The Court is likely to reach a similar conclusion as to
communications with subsequent distributors absent a different arrangement. The
parties should govern themselves accordingly. Hence, there is likely no need
for an order barring such testimony.          As to the
third request: Absent evidence as to what the precise arrangements were with
subsequent distributors, the Court cannot issue the broad bar requested. However,
this order should not be necessary in any event given the Court will have
already ruled on this issue at least as to Sonoma.DENIED.  WW’s MOTION TO BIFURCATE 













































































































          WW seeks to prevent
the introduction of any evidence as to WW’s financial condition and to bifurcate
the requests for punitive damages until there is any award of actual damages
and finding of fraud, oppression or malice, pursuant to Civil code sec.
3295(d).  GSC opposes the motion to the
extent it would preclude it from addressing the scope of WW’s resources. Otherwise,
the motion is not opposed. As discussed above, GSC may address the scope of
WW’s resources within the context referenced above. GRANTED. 