 Case Number:  23STCV11682    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  14 Case Background
 
Plaintiff and Defendant own a piece
of property. Plaintiff seeks a partition by sale. 
 
On May 23, 2023, Plaintiff filed his
verified Complaint for (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Partition, (3) Quiet
Title, and (4) Accounting against Defendants Mohamed Aboselim (“Aboselim”) and
DOES 1-10.
 
On November 6, 2023, Plaintiff
filed an “Amendment to Complaint” substituting Defendant Bobby G. Gossai (“Gossai”)
in lieu of DOE 1. No proof of service has been filed as to Defendant Gossai. 
 
            No trial
date has yet been set.
 
Instant Pleading
 
            Defendant Aboselim
now demurs to the entire Complaint on the grounds that it fails to state facts
sufficient to support any cause of action.
 
Decision
 
            Plaintiff’s
Objections to the Declaration of Mohamed Aboselim are SUSTAINED. A demurrer is
not an evidentiary hearing.
 
The demurrer to the first and third
causes of action is SUSTAINED, with 20 days leave to amend.
 
The demurrer to the second and
fourth cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
First Cause of Action: Breach of Contract
 
“’A cause of action for damages for
breach of contract is comprised of the following elements: (1) the contract,
(2) plaintiff's performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant's
breach, and (4) the resulting damages to plaintiff.’ (Careau & Co. v.
Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 C.A.3d 1371, 1388).” Rutherford
Holdings, LLC v. Plaza Del Rey (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 221, 228. “Further,
the complaint must indicate on its face whether the contract is written, oral,
or implied by conduct. (Code
Civ.Proc., § 430.10, subd. (g).).”  Otworth v. Southern Pac. Transportation
Co. (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452, 458-459 (implicitly overruled on other
grounds as recognized by Miles v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Company
(2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 394, 401-402).
 
Plaintiff pleads an oral contract
to buy the property, develop it, and split the expenses. (Complaint
¶¶ 11-15). The alleged breach is Defendant’s failure to pay his share of
expenses. (Complaint ¶¶ 19-22). The alleged damages are at least
$45,000.00. (Complaint ¶ 24). However, as Defendant points out, Plaintiff
has not expressly pled his own performance.
 
Furthermore, the nature of the contract
raises potential issues as to the statute of frauds. Civil Code § 1624.
Plaintiff may wish to consider and address whether the contract is enforceable,
given that it was not in writing. In any event, Plaintiff should include more
details regarding the terms of the contract, as well as performance.
 
Second Cause of Action: Partition
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure § 872.230 governs the contents of a complaint for
partition. It requires:
 
“(a) A description of the property
that is the subject of the action…In the case of real property, the description
shall include both its legal description and its street address or common
designation, if any.
(b) All interests the plaintiff has
or claims in the property.
(c) All interests of record or
actually known to the plaintiff that persons other than the plaintiff have or
claim in the property and that the plaintiff reasonably believes will be
materially affected by the action, whether the names of such persons are known
or unknown to the plaintiff.
(d) The estate as to which
partition is sought and a prayer for partition of the interests therein.
(e) Where the plaintiff seeks sale
of the property, an allegation of the facts justifying such relief in ordinary
and concise language.”
 
Plaintiff has met these requirements. The property description
appears at paragraph 3 of the Complaint. Plaintiff’s interest appears at paragraph
4, as do other interests of record. The estate is described at paragraph 12 and
Exhibit A. Finally, paragraph 28 alleges that the property cannot be equally
divided between the parties and therefore must be sold.
 
            The
demurrer refers the court to Code of Civil Procedure § 752. But Section
752 was repealed in 1976. It can no longer be applied.
 
Third Cause of Action: Quiet Title
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure § 761.020 governs the contents of a complaint for quiet
title. It requires:
 
“(a) A description of the property
that is the subject of the action…In the case of real property, the description
shall include both its legal description and its street address or common
designation, if any.
(b) The title of the plaintiff as
to which a determination under this chapter is sought and the basis of the
title. If the title is based upon adverse possession, the complaint shall
allege the specific facts constituting the adverse possession.
(c) The adverse claims to the title
of the plaintiff against which a determination is sought.
(d) The date as of which the
determination is sought. If the determination is sought as of a date other than
the date the complaint is filed, the complaint shall include a statement of the
reasons why a determination as of that date is sought.
(e) A prayer for the determination
of the title of the plaintiff against the adverse claims.”
 
Here, Plaintiff has not alleged any adverse claims to title.
Plaintiff claims 50%, and concedes Defendant Aboselim’s ownership of 50%. The
complaint does not describe any dispute or adverse claims to adjudicate. The
court cannot “quiet” title unless there is a dispute about title.
 
Fourth Cause of Action: Accounting
 
            “A cause of
action for an accounting requires a showing that a relationship exists between
the plaintiff and defendant that requires an accounting, and that some balance
is due the plaintiff that can only be ascertained by an accounting.” Teselle
v. McLoughlin (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 156, 179.
 
            “The right
to an accounting is derivative and depends on the validity of a plaintiff's
underlying claims.” Duggal v. G.E. Capital Communications Services, Inc.
(2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 81, 95.
 
            The parties
share ownership of the same property, which Plaintiff seeks to partition. Plaintiff
alleges that the property has expenses to which Defendant has not contributed.
That is sufficient to state a claim for an accounting, which will assist in
determining the final payment to which each party is entitled.
 
Conclusion
 
Plaintiff has not yet clearly and
completely pled a claim for breach of contract, or for quiet title. However,
Plaintiff has fulfilled the pleading requirements for partition, and a
derivative accounting action. Therefore, the demurrer to the first and third
causes of action is SUSTAINED, with 20 days leave to amend, and the
demurrer to the second and fourth cause of action is OVERRULED. 