 Case Number:  23STCV15910    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  28 


Having considered the moving papers, the Court rules
  as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On July 10, 2023, Plaintiffs Luis Gutierrez and
  Claudia Lemus (“Plaintiffs”) filed this action against Defendants Jaime (or
  Jamie) Andrade (“Andrade”) and Does 1-25 for motor vehicle tort and general
  negligence. 
On October 4, 2023, Andrade filed an answer and a
  cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Luis Gutierrez and Roes 1-50 for
  indemnity and declaratory relief. 
On November 14, 2023, “LA Century Law and their
  attorneys of record” filed a motion to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiffs. 
Trial is currently scheduled for January 6, 2025. 
COUNSEL’S REQUEST 
 Plaintiffs’ attorneys request that the Court grant
  their request to be relieved as counsel. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, provides: 
“(a) Notice 
“A notice
  of motion and motion to be relieved as counsel under Code of Civil Procedure section
  284(2) must be directed to the client and must be made on the Notice of
  Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form MC-051). 
“(b) Memorandum 
“Notwithstanding
  any other rule of court, no memorandum is required to be filed or served with
  a motion to be relieved as counsel. 
“(c) Declaration 
“The motion
  to be relieved as counsel must be accompanied by a declaration on the Declaration
  in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form
  MC-052). The declaration must state in general terms and without compromising
  the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under
  Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent
  under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1). 
“(d) Service 
“The notice
  of motion and motion, the declaration, and the proposed order must be served
  on the client and on all other parties who have appeared in the case. The notice
  may be by personal service, electronic service, or mail. 
“(1)  If the notice is served on the client by
  mail under Code of Civil Procedure section 1013, it must be accompanied by a
  declaration stating facts showing that either: 
“(A)   The
  service address is the current residence or business address of the client;
  or 
“(B)   The service address is the last known residence
  or business address of the client and the attorney has been unable to locate
  a more current address after making reasonable efforts to do so within 30
  days before the filing of the motion to be relieved. 
“(2)  If the notice is served on the client by
  electronic service under Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6 and rule
  2.251, it must be accompanied by a declaration stating that the electronic
  service address is the client's current electronic service address. 
“As used in
  this rule, ‘current’ means that the address was confirmed within 30 days before
  the filing of the motion to be relieved. Merely demonstrating that the notice
  was sent to the client's last known address and was not returned or no
  electronic delivery failure message was received is not, by itself, sufficient
  to demonstrate that the address is current. If the service is by mail, Code
  of Civil Procedure section 1011(b) applies. 
“(e) Order 
“The
  proposed order relieving counsel must be prepared on the Order Granting
  Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form MC-053) and must be
  lodged with the court with the moving papers. The order must specify all
  hearing dates scheduled in the action or proceeding, including the date of
  trial, if known. If no hearing date is presently scheduled, the court may set
  one and specify the date in the order. After the order is signed, a copy of
  the signed order must be served on the client and on all parties that have
  appeared in the case. The court may delay the effective date of the order
  relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on the
  client has been filed with the court.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362.) 
DISCUSSION 
On January 9, 2024, the Court continued
  the hearing on the motion to be relieved as counsel to February 21, 2024 and ordered counsel to serve the notice of
  motion and motion, declaration, and proposed order on Plaintiffs and Andrade
  and file a proper proof of service prior to the continued hearing. 
On February 16, 2024, counsel filed proofs of
  service of the notice of motion and motion and declaration on Plaintiffs.  However, counsel has not filed (1) proofs of service of the proposed order on Plaintiffs or (2) a proof of service of the notice of motion and motion,
  declaration, and proposed order on Andrade. 
The Court denies the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES the motion of LA Century
  Law and their attorneys of record to be relieved as counsel without prejudice. 
Counsel is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Counsel is ordered to file the proof of service of
  this ruling with the Court within five days.