 Case Number:  23STCV10975    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


March
  5, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV10975




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for an Order Permitting Two Independent Medical Examinations




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan
  Transportation Authority




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On May 15, 2023, Plaintiff Maria
Vela-Zuniga (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Los
Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority and Does 1 to 100 for negligence after
falling in a bus. 
 
            Defendant
Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (“Defendant)” now moves
to allow a neurological examination and orthopedic examination of Plaintiff on
the same date. No opposition has been filed.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“If any
party desires to obtain discovery by a physical examination other than that
described in Article 2 (commencing with Section 2032.210), or by a mental
examination, the party shall obtain leave of court.  A motion for an examination under subdivision
(a) shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person
or persons who will perform the examination. The motion shall be accompanied by
a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”  (Civ. Proc., §
2032.310, subds. (a)-(b).)  
 
“The court
shall grant a motion for a physical or mental examination under Section
2032.310 only for good cause shown.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd.
(a); see also Sporich v. Superior Court (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 422, 427
[“the good cause which must be shown should be such that will satisfy an
impartial tribunal that the request may be granted without abuse of the
inherent rights of the adversary”].) A showing of good cause generally requires
“that the party produce specific facts justifying discovery and that the
inquiry be relevant to the subject matter of the action or reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Vinson v.
Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.)  And “[a] party who chooses
to allege that he has mental and emotional difficulties can hardly deny his
mental state is in controversy.”  (Id. at p.
839.)   
 
The examination
will be limited to whatever condition is “in controversy” in the action.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc. §2032.020(a).)¿ This means the examination must be directly related
to the specific injury or condition that is the subject of the litigation.¿ (Roberts
v. Superior Court (1973) 9 Cal.3d 330, 337.)¿ Often, a party's pleadings
put his or her mental or physical condition in controversy ... as when a
plaintiff claims continuing mental or physical injury resulting from
defendant's acts: “A party who chooses to allege that he has mental and
emotional difficulties can hardly deny his mental state is in controversy.”¿
(See Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 837, wherein the
plaintiff claimed ongoing emotional distress from sexual harassment by former
employer.)¿ Discovery responses can also frame the issues regarding the
injuries and damages alleged.¿¿ 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Melanie O. Paulick states that on January 18, 2024,
she sent Plaintiff’s counsel a meet and confer letter to stipulate allowing the
two medical examinations. (Paulick Decl. ¶ 4.) Plaintiff’s counsel did not
respond. Therefore, it appears Defendant’s counsel made a good faith attempt to
resolve the issue. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges she suffered orthopedic injuries to her body
and neurological injuries to her brain as a result of her fall. (Paulick Decl.
¶ 3.) Defendant argues that because of these allegations, good cause
exists to allow the two medical examinations. 
 
Defendant seeks consecutive examinations at the same location and date:
an orthopedic examination from Dr. Thomas Grogan and a neurological examination
from Dr. Barry Ludwig. Defendant asserts the examinations will take place at
Dr. Ludwig’s office and will each last approximately 1 to 1.5 hours. (Motion,
4.) It also asserts that Dr. Ludwig’s examination “will consist of an
evaluation of Plaintiff’s nervous system to determine the existence, cause,
nature and extent of her injuries.” (Id. at 5.) Defendant also contends
that no physically painful tests or invasive procedures will be performed
during the examinations.
 
When seeking leave to conduct a mental examination, the party
seeking leave must state the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature
of the examination fully and in detail. This means listing each by name. (Carpenter
v. Superior Court¿(2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 249, 260.) In Carpenter,
the court discussed the heightened risk of intrusion that a mental examination
could pose. (Id. at 261 [“Requiring the court to identify the
permissible diagnostic tests and procedures, by name, confirms that the court
has weighed the risks of unwarranted intrusion upon the plaintiff against the
defendant's need for a meaningful opportunity to test the plaintiff's claims of
physical or mental injury.”].) Additionally, the specificity and clarity of the
order aids the examiner in complying with the parameters imposed by the court.
(Id.)  
 
 Here, Defendant’s motion does not state the
specific tests of the neurological examination by name. 
 
Therefore,
the motion to permit the neurological examination of Plaintiff is denied as
procedurally defective.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant
Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s motion to permit
the neurological examination of Plaintiff is DENIED.  
 
Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s motion to permit
the orthopedic examination of Plaintiff is GRANTED. Plaintiff is
ordered to appear for examination at a mutually convenient date and time.  
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof
of service of such. 