 Case Number:  22STCV37849    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


March
  5, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV37849




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Plaintiffs’ Depositions




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Mi Sun Chung




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiffs
  Kwan Jung Yoon and Hae Sook Yoon



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendant
Mi Sun Chung (“Defendant”) now moves to compel the depositions of Plaintiffs
Kwan Jung Yoon and Hae Sook Yoon (“Plaintiffs”). Plaintiffs oppose. Defendant
replies.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action . . . , without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party
giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document . . .
described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
 
“A motion
under subdivision (a) [above] shall comply with both of the following: 
 
1. The motion
shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. 
2. The motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040,
or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance.” 
 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b).) 
 
If a motion
is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction in favor of that party
unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the sanction unjust.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 (g).)
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Jonathan Ebneyamin shows that Defendant’s counsel
was communicating with Plaintiffs’ counsel to schedule the depositions, and to
provide alternative dates after Plaintiffs’ cancellations. (See Ebneyamin Decl.
¶ 9, Exh. E.) Therefore, the meet and confer requirement has been met. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant asserts that Plaintiffs’ depositions have been noticed three
times, set for November 10, 2023, December 11, 2023, and January 3, 2024.
(Ebneyamin Decl. ¶ 4–9). Each time, Plaintiffs canceled the deposition stating
they were not available, despite previously proposing the December 11, 2023
date. (Id. ¶ 5.) As of the filing of this motion, Plaintiffs have not offered
alternative dates.  
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs asserts that Kwan Yoon’s deposition took
place on February 16, 2024. (Gao Decl. ¶ 12.) The parties did not have time to
complete Hae Sook Yoon’s deposition on February 16, 2024 and scheduled her
deposition for February 28, 2024. (Id. ¶ 14–16.) 
 
The Court finds that the motions to compel are moot because one
deposition has already completed and the other was scheduled to be completed
prior to the hearing on this motion. Moreover, monetary sanctions are not
warranted because valid reasons were given sufficiently in advance of the
depositions for the nonappearances.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant Mi
Sun Chung’s motions to compel Plaintiffs’ depositions are DENIED as moot.  
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 