 Case Number:  24STCV05064    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JUSTICE WEST, INC., 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
LISA WONG,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 24STCV05064
 
[TENTATIVE] GRANTING DEFENDANT’S SPECIAL
  MOTION TO STRIKE (ANTI-SLAPP MOTION)
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
January 21, 2025



 
On February 29, 2024, Plaintiff Justice West Inc. filed
this action against Defendant Lisa Wong. 
The Complaint alleges (1) conversion, (2) interference with economic advantage,
(3) intentional interference with contractual relations, (4) fraudulent transfer,
(5) aiding and abetting fraudulent transfer, (6) breach of fiduciary duty, (7) aiding
and abetting breach of fiduciary duty, (8) conspiracy, (9) accounting, (10) unjust
enrichment, (11) declaratory relief, and (12) civil RICO.
On December 3, 2024, Defendant filed a
special motion to strike under Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16 (“anti-SLAPP
motion”).
Plaintiff
argues that “Defendant has waited far longer than the statutorily-allowed sixty
(60) days to file this motion, [so] the Court should deny it on that grounds alone.”  (Opposition at p. 4.)  On May 16, 2024 and November 21, 2024, the Court
granted Defendant’s ex parte applications for extensions of time to file a response.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (f) [a court
may, in its discretion, authorize a later filing date].)  This motion was timely filed before the court-imposed
deadline.
REQUESTS
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
Defendant’s
request for judicial notice of various court filings and orders is granted.  In doing so, the Court takes judicial notice of
their existence and legal effect, but not the truth of their contents.
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
Plaintiff’s
Objection Nos. 1-2 to the Declaration of Lisa Wong are sustained as irrelevant.
DISCUSSION
“A
cause of action against a person arising from any act of that person in furtherance
of the person’s right of petition or free speech under the United States Constitution
or California Constitution in connection with a public issue shall be subject to
a special motion to strike unless the court determines that the plaintiff has established
that there is a probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b)(1).)
“A
court’s consideration of an anti-SLAPP motion involves a two-step process.  ‘First, the court decides whether the defendant
has made a threshold showing that the challenged cause of action is one arising
from protected activity.  The moving defendant’s
burden is to demonstrate that the act or acts of which the plaintiff complains were
taken “in furtherance of the [defendant]’s right of petition or free speech under
the United States or California Constitution in connection with a public issue,”
as defined in the statute.  [Citation.]  If the court finds such a showing has been made,
it then determines whether the plaintiff has demonstrated a probability of prevailing
on the claim.’  [Citation.]  In the second step, the plaintiff must only bring
forward sufficient evidence to make out a viable prima facie case at trial, a burden
that ‘is not particularly high.’  [Citation.]”  (O&C Creditors Group, LLC v. Stephens &
Stephens XII, LLC (2019) 42 Cal.App.5th 546, 565-566.)
A.        Background Facts
Defendant
is the former president and shareholder of Mitchell and Company Inc. (“MITCO”).  (Complaint ¶ 2.)  Boshal Lee, Defendant’s then-husband, was also
a shareholder of MITCO.  (Complaint ¶ 18.)  MITCO owned real estate that was used as a rental
property (“Grand Property”).  (Complaint ¶¶
13-15.)
Defendant
and Lee were involved in divorce proceedings from 2014 through 2018.  (Complaint ¶ 18.)  The court entered a judgment in the divorce court
action on September 19, 2018.  (Motion, RJN,
Ex. 2.)  That court ordered the Grand Property
sold, with proceeds divided between Defendant and Lee according to the order.  (See Motion, RJN, Ex. 2.)  Defendant was granted “exclusive authorization
to list, sell and transfer [the Grand Property].”  (Motion, RJN, Ex. 3 at p. 2.)  Defendant was permitted to sign all documents
necessary to list, sell, and transfer the Grand Property on behalf of herself, Lee,
and/or MITCO.  (Ibid.)
Plaintiff,
assignee of MITCO, alleges that Defendant used fraud to transfer the Grand Property
for below market value and kept all sale proceeds, without consent from the court
or MITCO.  (Complaint ¶¶ 2-3, 19; see Complaint
¶¶ 16, 49.)  Specifically, Defendant “purported
to transfer MITCO’s title to Grand first to Wong and Lee, and then from Wong and
Lee to Sharon Asadoor (‘Asadoor’) in May 2019 at a deep discount of about 50% from
market value; at the time of sale, market value was at least $1.3 million.”  (Complaint ¶ 20.)  Thereafter, Defendant converted the Grand Property’s
monthly rental income, retained the sale proceeds, and concealed her conduct from
MITCO shareholders.  (See Complaint ¶¶ 21-42.)
B.        Step One: Defendant Has Shown That the
Alleged Conduct Arises Out of Protected Activity.
Defendant
argues that the alleged conduct is protected litigation activity.  (Motion at pp. 2-8.)
“[A]ny
written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under consideration
or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding
authorized by law” and “any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the
constitutional right of petition or the constitutional right of free speech in connection
with a public issue or an issue of public interest” are protected under the anti-SLAPP
statute.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd.
(e).)  “‘A cause of action “arising from”
defendant’s litigation activity may appropriately be the subject of a section 425.16
motion to strike.’  [Citation.]  ‘Any act’ includes communicative conduct such
as the filing, funding, and prosecution of a civil action.”  (Rusheen v. Cohen (2006) 37 Cal.4th 1048,
1056 (Rusheen).)  “[C]ourts have adopted
‘a fairly expansive view of what constitutes litigation-related activities within
the scope of section 425.16.’  [Citation.]  As a result, ‘protection for petitioning activities
applies not only to the filing of lawsuits, but extends to conduct that relates
to such litigation, including statements made in connection with or in preparation
of litigation’ [citation], as well as to actions taken to enforce a judgment [citation].”  (Weeden v. Hoffman (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th
269, 285, fn. 3.)
The
wrongful conduct alleged here relates to the divorce action between Defendant and
Lee and the execution of that final judgment. 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant misrepresented facts and gave false testimony
during the proceedings, inducing a void judgment to the detriment of MITCO.  (E.g., Complaint ¶¶ 16, 27, 33, 35, 37, 40-41.)  The divorce action resulted in a September 19,
2018 judgment that ordered the sale of the Grand Property and disbursement of the
sale funds.  (Motion, RJN, Ex. 2.)  Every cause of action alleges that Defendant wrongfully
executed a deed transfer of the Grand Property from MITCO to herself—actions taken
to execute the divorce judgment.  (Complaint
¶ 55; see Complaint ¶¶ 55, 63, 71, 76-79, 85, 91, 96, 100-101, 106, 111, 120-124,
127-132.)
Accordingly,
the Court finds that the alleged conduct for all causes of action arises from protected
activity.
C.        Step Two: Plaintiff Has Not Shown a Probability
of Prevailing.
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff cannot establish a probability of prevailing because (1) the
claims are barred by the final judgment in the divorce action, (2) the litigation
privilege bars all claims, (3) the applicable statutes of limitations bar all claims,
(4) MITCO’s shareholder admitted in bankruptcy proceedings that this action has
no value, (5) Plaintiff’s principal (Lee) is a vexatious litigant, (6) this action
is part of a concerted plan of harassment, and (7) this action is barred by the
dismissal of Case No. 23AHCV00449 due to failure to post a bond in that action.  (Motion at pp. 8-15.)
The
Court finds that most of Defendant’s arguments have little to no merit, and thus
it discusses those arguments only briefly.
Defendant
does not clearly establish that res judicata bars these claims due to the divorce
proceedings.  Defendant asserts with little
further explanation, “Here, Plaintiff is in privity with Mitchell and Company, through
its assignment, and shares an identity of interest with its principal, Boschal Lee.  The interests of Lee and Mitco were represented,
and identical, to those actually litigated, and represented, in the marital dissolution
proceeding.  Res judicata applies.”  (Motion at p. 9.)  As Plaintiff notes, “Defendant provides no factual
support for her claim that Boschal Lee (party to the family law case) and Mitchell
and Co. are one and the same; she merely references ‘Exhibit 13’ (of her Request
for Judicial Notice), without any further page reference within that forty (40)
page exhibit.”  (Opposition at p. 6.)
The
Court is also not convinced that all causes of action are time-barred.  Plaintiff alleges equitable tolling due to Covid-19
orders and Defendant’s concealment of escrow documents until September 2021.  (Complaint ¶¶ 17, 50, 60; see Opposition at pp.
8-9.)
It
is not clear how Lee’s summary of assets in his own bankruptcy proceedings prevent
this action from going forward.  According
to Defendant, MITCO’s “sole shareholder, Lee, affirmed under penalty of perjury
that [MITCO]’s assets are valued at ‘$0.00’ . . . [MITCO]’s shareholder’s admission
is binding on [MITCO], and on Plaintiff as its assignee.”  (Motion at p. 11.)
It
is also not clear how or why Lee’s status as a vexatious litigant or his harassment
of Defendant shows that this action must lack merit.  (Motion at pp. 11-13.)  Although Defendant asserts that Plaintiff is “an
empty shell without assets” and “Lee is the sole beneficiary and stakeholder on
behalf of Plaintiff,” that alone does not relate to the merit of this case.  The similar case of Case No. 23AHCV00449 also
does not clearly indicate this case’s lack of merit.  That case was dismissed without prejudice by MITCO
after the court ordered an undertaking but before a determination of the amount
of bond.
However,
Defendant sets forth a meritorious argument about the litigation privilege, which
Plaintiff does not overcome.
The
litigation privilege “applies to any communication (1) made in judicial or quasi-judicial
proceedings; (2) by litigants or other participants authorized by law; (3) to achieve
the objects of the litigation; and (4) that have some connection or logical relation
to the action.”  (Silberg v. Anderson (1990)
50 Cal.3d 205, 212 (Silberg).)  This
includes any communication, whether or not it amounts to a publication, and all
torts except malicious prosecution.  (Ibid.)  The litigation privilege extends to “postjudgment
enforcement activities that are necessarily related to the allegedly wrongful communicative
act.”  (Rusheen, supra, 37 Cal.4th
at p. 1063.)
The
threshold issue in determining the applicability of the litigation privilege is
whether the conduct arises from communicative acts or noncommunicative conduct.  (Kimmel v. Goland (1990) 51 Cal.3d 202,
211.)  “[W]ithout exception, the privilege
has applied only to torts arising from statements or publications.”  (Ibid.)  “The distinction between communicative and noncommunicative
conduct hinges on the gravamen of the action.” 
(Rusheen, supra, 37 Cal.4th at p. 1058.)
According
to Defendant, “[t]he gravamen of Plaintiff’s complaint is that Defendant Wong wrongfully
sold the Grand Avenue property,” but that sale was ordered by the court in final
judgment in the Wong/Lee dissolution action. 
(Motion at pp. 4-5.)  “The sale of
the Grand Avenue property was the execution and enforcement of the Court’s Divorce
Judgment,” and “[t]he public filings, recorded instruments, and statements made
in connection with the publication of the property for sale, and its sale by Wong,
were done per the Court Orders.”  (Id.
at p. 5.)
The
Court finds that the gravamen of this action arises out of Defendant’s communications
in the divorce proceedings.  (See Motion at
pp. 5-7.)  Although alleged as a wrongful
deed transfer of the Grand Property from MITCO to herself (e.g., Complaint ¶¶ 16,
55), Plaintiff also alleges that Defendant “illegally transferred title away from
MITCO by misrepresenting facts about MITCO to the court without MITCO present as
a party,” and “the willful fraudulent acts of Wong and her co-conspirators induced
a void judgment to the detriment of MITCO” (Complaint ¶¶ 16, 41).  The judgment was the result of divorce proceedings
that included “filed documents in Wong’s dissolution matter” in which she “claimed
her ownership interest in MITCO is through her community property interest of Lee”
(Complaint ¶ 27), “falsified her testimonies to the liabilities and expenses of
MITCO” (Complaint ¶ 33), “falsified their testimonies to claim ownership shares
in MITCO assets” (Complaint ¶ 35), “lied under oath in claiming that there was no
construction and loans for Grand” (Complaint ¶ 37), and “lied under oath for personal
gain to obtain more money from Grand than they were entitled to, which was zero
as Wong’s ownership interest, if any, are in the shares of MITCO, and not in its
assets” (Complaint ¶ 40).
The
documents and testimony were therefore communications “(1) made in judicial or quasi-judicial
proceedings; (2) by litigants or other participants authorized by law; (3) to achieve
the objects of the litigation; and (4) that have some connection or logical relation
to the action.”  (See Silberg, supra, 50
Cal.3d at p. 212.)  As a result of Defendant’s
testimony and filed documents, “the willful fraudulent acts of Wong and her co-conspirators
induced a void judgment to the detriment of MITCO.”  (Complaint ¶ 41.)
Accordingly,
the Court finds that Defendant’s testimony and litigation filings in the divorce
action that led to the judgment—not the sole action of selling the Grand Property—is
the gravamen on this action.  (See Rusheen,
supra, 37 Cal.4th at p. 1062 [“On close analysis, the gravamen of the action
was not the levying act, but the procurement of the judgment based on the use of
allegedly perjured declarations of service.”].) 
The absolute litigation privilege therefore applies, regardless of any alleged
wrongful intentions or malice.  (See Silberg,
supra, 50 Cal.3d at pp. 215-216.)
Plaintiff
argues that the litigation privilege does not apply to Defendant’s conversion and
theft of proceeds.  (Opposition at pp. 7-8.)  Plaintiff’s cited authority is distinguishable.  The case of Optional Capital, Inc. v. DAS Corp.
(2014) 222 Cal.App.4th 1388 arose from a settlement in another superior court case.  (See id. at pp. 1394-1395.)  The action alleged a conspiracy in an effort to
hinder, delay and defraud recovery of the settlement from the first case.  (Id. at pp. 1395-1396.)  The court reiterated that “conduct is not automatically
protected merely because it is related to pending litigation; the conduct must arise
from the litigation.”  There, the action sought
to recover monies looted from it and wrongfully obtained by the defendant.  (Id. at pp. 1400-1401)  The court observed, “The only connection between
the settlement in the DAS superior court litigation and Optional’s claims here is
that the settlement was used as a device to permit DAS to persuade the Swiss government
to release the funds, thereby depriving Optional of funds to satisfy its judgment.”  (Id. at p. 1401.)  The court concluded that the litigation privilege
did not apply because the action “alleged an independent, noncommunicative, wrongful
act: namely, DAS’s conspiracy with the Kim parties and Alexandria to assert dominion
and control over the funds in which Optional has a judgment lien and transfer of
those funds out of Optional’s reach in violation of rights as a judgment creditor
of Alexandria.”  (Id. at p. 1405.)
By
contrast, the Complaint here alleges that Defendant’s false statements in the divorce
action induced a void judgment, and Defendant took actions to carry out the judgment.  (E.g., Complaint ¶¶ 33-41.)  These acts arise directly from the divorce action
and are protected as “postjudgment enforcement activities that are necessarily related
to the allegedly wrongful communicative act.” 
(See Rusheen, supra, 37 Cal.4th at p. 1063.)
In
sum, Plaintiff has not shown a probability of overcoming the litigation privilege
and prevailing on the merits.
CONCLUSION
The
anti-SLAPP motion is GRANTED.  This action
is DISMISSED.
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16, subdivision (c)(1), Defendant is awarded
her uncontested attorney fees and costs of $18,635.00 from Defendant.  (See Motion at pp. ii; Hacohen Decl. ¶ 12.)
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 21st day of January 2025
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 