  Case Number:  23CMCV00796    Hearing Date:   July 15, 2024    Dept:  A 
23CMCV00796 City of Compton v. Mehdi Javadiaghdam, et al.
Monday,
 July 15, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING
RECEIVER’S
 MOTION AUTHORIZING ISSUANCE OF RECEIVER’S CERTIFICATE, PROPOSED REHABILITATION
 PLAN, AND FOR RECEIVER TO ENGAGE A BROKER TO MARKET THE RECEIVERSHIP PROPERTY
 
I.       
BACKGROUND
      Plaintiff,
City of Compton (“City”), filed this action to require Defendants to abate the
operation of an illegal narcotics business by Defendant, Green House Cure. The real
property is allegedly owned by Defendant, FS International, Inc. (“FSI”), for whom
Defendant Mehdi Javadiaghdam serves as FSI’s officer and director. The City
alleges claims for abatement, injunction, equitable relief, and imposition of civil
penalties.
      On
April 30, 2924, the court granted the motion of Ryan W. Streckfus to be
relieved as counsel for Defendant, FSI. On February 8, 2024, the court granted
Plaintiff’s motion to appoint John Rey (“Receiver”) to take control of the real
property, terminate illegal activity, and require Defendants to obtain a
certificate of occupancy. 
      Plaintiff
now moves for an order authorizing the issuance of receiver’s certificate, for approval
of the proposed rehabilitation plan, and authorizing the Receiver to engage a
broker to market the property for sale. The Receiver timely served the motion
on all parties. No opposition has been filed. 
II.     
ARGUMENTS
      The powers of a receiver are governed by
Section 17980.7 subd. (c)(4) and includes the power to take full and complete
control of the property; manage the building; pay operating expenses, including
taxes, insurance, utilities, general maintenance, and debt secured by an
interest in real property; to secure a cost estimate and construction plan for
the necessary repairs; enter into contracts and collect all rents and income
and to use such income for the cost of rehabilitation. (Health & Saf. Code, § 17980.7(c)(4).)
      The Receiver requests an order to secure a
line of credit of up to $250,000 at 15% interest payable within three months
after the closing of the Receivership Estate to pay expenses incurred in
securing and improving the property for sale after the Receiver discovered 14
unpermitted units at the property occupied by tenants. Defendant refused to
turn over the rents. The units required repair of plumbing and other issues to
make the building safe. All tenants vacated the premises after service of a
60-day Notice to Vacate the property. To date, the Receiver has incurred
$64,492,61 in out-of-pocket expenses to secure and maintain the premises and
$31,507.75 in attorney’s fees, Receiver’s fees, property management, trash,
janitorial, and construction and maintenance expenses. 
      The court has reviewed the Receiver’s
reports and ledgers, and the Receiver’s declaration, filed July 5, 2024, substantiating
costs and necessary expenses incurred and to be incurred by the Receiver for
repair and maintenance, as well as evidence showing the condition of the
property upon inspection. (Receiver’s 1st Report filed 3/22/24 Ex.
2.) The court’s order directed the Receiver to prepare a rehabilitation plan to
remedy the conditions giving rise to the appointment of the receiver and any
conditions requiring remediation. (Id. Ex. 1). 
      While the Receiver previously anticipated
incurring costs to correct all Code violations, the Rehabilitation Plan is now
changed to improve the marketability of the real property. To that end, the
Receiver submits estimates for repairs. Total estimated repairs as well as fees
and expenses already incurred is estimated at $241,828.29 (Receiver’s decl.,
7/5/24.)  
 
III.   
CONCLUSION
      Based
on the foregoing, the court approves the Receiver’s Second Report, and GRANTS
the Receiver’s motion for issuance of receiver’s certificate, for approval of
the proposed rehabilitation plan, and authorizing the Receiver to engage a
broker to market the property for sale.
 