 Case Number:  22VECV02441    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  W R. V. v. LOS
ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
 
plaintiff’s motion to compel
defednant los angeles unified school district to provide further responses to
request for production of documents, set one and special interrogatories, set
one 
 
Date of Hearing:        June
4, 2024                          Trial
Date:       March
3, 2025 
Department:              W                                            Case
No.:        22VECV02441
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiff
R.V.  
Responding Party:     Defendant
Los Angeles Unified School District   
Meet and Confer:      Yes.
(Weeks Decl. ¶4.)[1]
 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 16, 2022, Plaintiff R.V.
filed a complaint against Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District. On
March 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint, asserting causes of
action for Negligent Supervision of Employee/Agent; Negligent Retention of
Employee/Agent; Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention of Unfit Employee;
Breach of Mandatory Duty (Under Education Code Section 44807); Breach of
Mandatory Duty (Failure to Report Under Penal Code Section 11166, et seq.); Negligent
Supervision of a Minor; and Negligence. On April 19, 2023, Plaintiff dismissed
the third, fourth, and sixth causes of action against LAUSD. 
 
Plaintiff alleges when she was
approximately five years old, she met JOHN DOE at LAUSD’s Hart Elementary
School, where Plaintiff was a student. Plaintiff alleges after meeting JOHN
DOE, JOHN DOE began “grooming” Plaintiff with the specific intent of manipulating
her emotions and taking advantage of her vulnerabilities and young age. During
approximately the 1994-1995 and/or 1995-1996 school year, Plaintiff alleges JOHN
DOE regularly and repeatedly sexually assaulted and abused Plaintiff. Plaintiff
alleges LAUSD failed to take reasonable steps and implement reasonable
safeguards to avoid inappropriate or unlawful conduct by JOHN DOE against
students. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District to Provide
Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One is GRANTED,
in part.  
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel
Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District to Provide Further Responses to
Special Interrogatories, Set One is GRANTED, in part. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.                   
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL DEFENDANT LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL
DISTRICT TO PROVIDE FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS,
SET ONE
 
Plaintiff moves the court for
an order compelling Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District to provide
further responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set One,
Nos. 1-12, 26-28, 30-32, 35, 39-41, 43-46 and 49-51, and to produce all
responsive documents thereto. Plaintiff makes the motion on the grounds Defendant’s
objections to the requests are without merit and the documents requested by
Plaintiff are highly relevant to Plaintiff’s claims and/or Defendant’s defenses
in this action. 
 
A motion to compel further
responses to a demand for inspection or production of documents (“RFP”) may be
brought based on: (1) incomplete statements of compliance; (2) inadequate,
evasive or incomplete claims of inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly
generalized objections.  (CCP § 2031.310(c).) A motion to compel
further production must set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying
the discovery sought by the inspection demand. (See CCP § 2031.310(b)(1).) It
is not necessary for the motion to show that the material sought will be
admissible in evidence. “Good cause” may be found to justify discovery where
specific facts show that the discovery is necessary for effective trial
preparation or to prevent surprise at trial.
 
Request Nos. 1-12, 26-28,
31-32, and 49-51 seek documents relating to Mario Palomares’ employment with
Defendant LAUSD. Plaintiff argues Palomares’ employment records and personnel
file are the best and most reliable evidence of: (1) any complaints against
Palomares in his capacity as an employee of Defendant (2) when Defendant
learned of any complaints against Palomares, if any; (3) whether any complaints
were investigated by Defendant; (4) any response by Palomares and any action
taken by Defendant in response to any complaints; (5) any investigation done to
assess Palomares’ background prior to his hiring; and (6) any exploration of
Palomares’ conduct and performance while he was employed by Defendant. As a
result, the objections are without merit. Specifically, if Palomares has any
privacy rights, they are slight, at best. If
Defendant is concerned about the financial privacy of Palomares, Plaintiff is
willing to accept a redacted copy of Palomares’ personnel records with his
social security number and salary information removed from the records.
Moreover, Defendant’s citation to FERPA and the Education Code are not
applicable. Neither does Defendant’s assertion of the attorney-client or work
product privilege apply. The documents sought do not constitute Defendant’s
counsel’s “impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal research or theories”
with respect to the claims or defenses involved in the action.
 
In opposition, Defendant
LAUSD argues the responses were proper given the District must maintain privacy
rights of their employees and information contained within the personnel files
of their employees. Personnel files contain not only financial information in
which a person holds a right of privacy, but may include medical information,
as well, that is protected by the right of privacy. Finally, as to Plaintiff’s arguments
regarding inapplicability of FERPA and Education Code, the District submits that
there are many scenarios wherein student names and other identifying information
are contained within personnel files. 
 
The court finds Plaintiff has
shown good cause warranting further production of documents. In each instance, Plaintiff
identifies at least clear relevance of the documents being demanded and why
such information would be helpful for trial preparation against LAUSD.
Moreover, the privacy concerns raised by LAUSD as to Palomare are outweighed by
plaintiff’s compelling need for this information.  The court will also require the document be
sealed and marked highly confidential for all uses and purposes in this court.
As for LAUSD’s FERPA contention, FERPA involves the disclosure of educational
records. Even if student names and other identifying information are contained
within the personnel files, directory information, like the student’s name,
address, and telephone number, “may be released since the information is
directory information.” (Doe v. United States Swimming, Inc.¿(2011) 200
Cal.App.4th 1424, 1438, fn. 7.) 
 
Accordingly, the motion to
compel further is GRANTED as to Request Nos. 1-12, 26-28, 31-32, and 49-51. The
parties are to enter a protective order and confer regarding the procedures of
any student information contained in the records. 
 
As for Request Nos. 39-41 and
43-46, Plaintiff argues Defendant fails to explain exactly why it cannot comply
as required by Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.230. This is particularly
disturbing especially when Education Code § 49062 – which Defendant repeatedly
invokes as an objection to the Requests – places an express duty on Defendant
to maintain all student records, stating in relevant part: “No pupil records
shall be destroyed except pursuant to such regulations or as provided in subdivisions
(b) and (c) of Section 49070.”
 
In opposition, LAUSD argues the
District has conducted a diligent search and reasonable inquiry in an effort to
comply, but have been unable to locate Plaintiff R.V.’s records. This is what
the responses set forth. Accordingly, it is unclear what more Plaintiff wants. 
 
The court agrees the
responses are code compliant. LAUSD states: “After a diligent search and a
reasonable inquiry, the Responding Party is unable to comply with this request because
the Responding Party has not been able to locate the requested documents.” This
is sufficient. 
 
Accordingly, the motion to
compel further responses to Request Nos. 
39-41 and 43-46 is DENIED. 
 
Lastly, as to Requests Nos.
30 and 35, Plaintiff argues Defendant’s objections of vague and ambiguous,
overbroad, attorney-client and attorney work product, and privacy under FERPA
and the Education Code are without merit. These requests are clear, limited in
scope and time, and do not infringe on any asserted privilege. Nor are the
Requests overbroad as each is narrowly tailored to the production of documents within
the two-year period at issue. Similarly, Defendant’s citation to FERPA and the
Education Code with respect to images of the school at the time of the abuse
are equally frivolous. 

In opposition, LAUSD states
they will provide further responses to Request No. 30. As for No. 35, LAUSD
argues the request is overbroad, burdensome, harassing and oppressive,
requiring the District to ascertain any and all improvements that have occurred
in the last 30 (thirty) years and seek all photographic depictions of all
aspects of the schools – rooms, bathrooms, offices – everything – that were in
place 30 (thirty) years ago. 
 
As for No. 35, the court
agrees the request is burdensome as framed and will not require further
responses.  
 
Accordingly, the motion to
compel further responses as to No. 30 is moot and and 35 is denied. 
 
 
II.                 
PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION TO COMPEL DEFENDANT LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT TO PROVIDE
FURTHER RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE 
 
Plaintiff moves the court for
an order compelling Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District to provide
further responses to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 1, 2,
9, 10-18, 19-27, 29-35. 
 
A motion to compel further
responses to form or specially prepared interrogatories may be brought if the
responses contain: (1) answers that are evasive or incomplete; (2) an
unwarranted or insufficiently specific exercise of an option to produce
documents in lieu of a substantive response; or (3) unmerited or overly
generalized objections.  (CCP §
2030.300(a).)   
 
Plaintiff seeks further
responses to SROG Nos. 16-18, 19-27, 29, and 30-35 on the grounds any other
complaints of sexual misconduct made to Defendant about Palomares, and what if
any steps were taken to investigate said complaints, are highly relevant to
Plaintiff’s claims. Moreover, as noted above, if Palomares has any privacy
rights, they are slight, at best. On the other hand, Plaintiff must obtain this
information in order to facilitate the ascertainment of truth in this legal
proceeding. There is also no less intrusive means available for Plaintiff to
acquire this information. Neither does Defendant’s assertion of the
attorney-client or work product privilege apply. 
 
LAUSD makes the same
arguments as above regarding privacy and FERPA. Based on the court’s discussion
above, the court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses as to
SROG Nos. 16-18, 19-27, 29, and 30-35. The parties are to confer regarding the
protective order. 
 
As for SROG 1 and 9,
Plaintiff argues Defendant’s objection of
privacy and attorney client and attorney work product are not applicable. The
information does not seek the disclosure of any information from Palomares’
employment records. Nor do the interrogatories
seek attorney-client or work product information. LAUSD makes the same argument
for SROG 9 as SROG Nos. 16-18, 19-27, 29, and 30-35. The court finds further
responses necessary. LAUSD further agrees to provide further responses to SROG
1. 
 
Accordingly, the motion to
compel further SROGS 1 and 9 is GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiff seeks further
responses to SROG Nos. 10-12 and 13-15, all regarding information of Palomares’
employment history and background checks performed by LAUSD. LAUSD makes the
same arguments as noted above. For the reasons stated earlier, the motion to
compel further SROGS 10-12 and 13-15 is GRANTED. 
 
The court notes Plaintiff
refers to SROG 2, but as noted by LAUSD, there is no argument contained
therein, nor is Special Interrogatory identified in Plaintiff’s Separate
Statement. 
 
 
 


