 Case Number:  23VECV03837    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  W PATRICE
KAUFMAN VS ANTHONY JOHNSON, ET AL.
 
DEMURRER TO THE
COMPLAINT 
 
Date
of Hearing:        June 4, 2024                                      Trial Date:       None set   
Department:
             W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV03837
 
Moving
Party:            Defendants JJC
Construction, Inc.
Responding
Party:     Plaintiff Patrice Kaufman  
 
BACKGROUND
 
On September 1, 2023, Plaintiff Patrice Kaufman filed
a complaint against Defendants Anthony Johnson and JJC Construction, Inc. for 1)
Negligence (Breach of Implied Duty of Care); 2) Breach of Contract; 3)
Recission of Contract; and 4) Statutory Abandonment (B&P Code §§ 7107 &
7113). Plaintiff hired a contractor to help with new floors and walls, paint,
new kitchen (cabinets, countertops, appliances, water heater), and to install
two toilets after Plaintiff’s pipes burst. Plaintiff alleges the contractor
performed defective work that will cost in excess of $114,000 to correct and
complete. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
RULING:
 
Defendants’ Demurrer to the
Complaint is OVERRULED IN PART AND SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND IN PART. 


DISCUSSION
 
Defendant
JJC Construction, Inc. moves the court for an order sustaining the demurrer to
the entire verified complaint. Defendant Anthony Johnson filed a notice of
joinder. 
 
First
Cause of Action
 
To
plead a cause of action for negligence, one must allege (1) a legal duty owed
to plaintiffs to use due care; (2) breach of duty; (3) causation; and (4)
damage to plaintiff. (County of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2006) 137 Cal. App. 4th 292, 318.) “In order to state a cause of action for
negligence, the complaint must allege facts sufficient to show a legal duty on
the part of the defendant to use due care, a breach of such legal duty, and the
breach as the proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury.” (Bellah v.
Greenson (1978) 81 Cal.App.3d 614, 619.)  
 
Defendants
demur to the first cause of action for negligence on the grounds the entire complaint
is factually insufficient as to the material fact regarding the dates, events,
incidents, parties, rights, duties, obligations, transactions, contracts, acts
and conduct necessary to constitute any valid cause of action with liability of
Defendants. Moreover, Defendants' alleged conduct does not give rise to any
duty or liability under the alleged contract nor has Plaintiff alleged actual
damages. Lastly, Defendants demur to the cause of action on the grounds of
uncertainty. Defendants contend Plaintiff vaguely alleges confusing and inconsistent
conclusions and accusations that defendants owed an implied duty of due care to
Plaintiff, even though pleading unclearly how defendants breached said duty
damaging plaintiff.
 
The
court disagrees, Plaintiff’s first cause of action for negligence is not so
ambiguous that Defendants cannot reasonably respond. Moreover, the complaint
sufficiently alleges “material facts” for the purposes of a demurrer. The
complaint alleges Defendants owed a duty to exercise reasonable care in the
management, construction, and/or workmanship of the project; Defendants
breached that duty by failing to ensure the project was managed, constructed,
and/or built properly including failing to provide electrical power to the
property, turn on the water heater, poor workmanship on the kitchen countertops
and flooring as well as destruction  of Plaintiffs’
personal items. The complaint further alleges as a result of this breach,
Plaintiffs have been damaged in the amount of $140,000 by having to hire
replacement contractors to correct the defects and complete the project and
$2,000 in property damages. In California, negligence may be pleaded in general
terms. (Landeros v. Flood (1976) 17 Cal.3d 399, 407-408.)  Further,
the law recognizes that failure to perform a professional contract according to
the care, skill and knowledge of that professaionl can give rise to both
contract and tort damages.  (Holguin
v. Dish Network LLC (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 1310, 1324; North
American Chemical Co. v. Superior Court  (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 764,
774.)   
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer to the first cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Second
Cause of Action
 
“The
standard elements of a claim for breach of contract are: ‘(1) the contract, (2)
plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach,
and (4) damage to plaintiff therefrom.’” (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New
York Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.) 
 
Defendants
demur to the second cause of action for breach of contract on the grounds while
Plaintiff asserts a written construction contract, she has not attached a copy
of any actual written contract nor plead verbatim the specific and material
terms and conditions of such written contract. Defendants contend the
attachment to the complaint is an estimate, not a contract. Moreover, Plaintiff
has not plead the requisite elements and material facts for breach of written contract
necessary to constitute a cause of action. 
 
The
court finds the allegations sufficient for a demurrer. Taking the allegations
as true, the written estimate was a  binding agreement between the parties whereby
Defendants were supposed to provide new floors and walls, paint, new kitchen
(cabinets, countertops, appliances, water heater), and to install two toilets.
Plaintiff performed their obligations and made progress payments of $49,222 to
Defendants until Defendants breached the agreement, by only partially
performing and/or failing to perform the project, and then abandoning the
project altogether. As a result, of Defendants’ breach, Plaintiffs have been
damaged. 
 
Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer to the second cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Third
Cause of Action
 
Rescission
is a common-law remedy to breach of contract which in California has been
codified by statute at Civil Code section 1688 et seq. (Hedging Concepts,
Inc. v. First Alliance Mortgage Co. (1996) 41 Cal.App.4th 1410, 1422
[California rescission statutes “restate[] the equity jurisprudence applicable
in the rescission context”].) Section 1689 describes the circumstances under
which a party may seek rescission and provides in relevant part: “A party to a
contract may rescind the contract . . . [1] If the consent of the party
rescinding, or of any party jointly contracting with him, was given by mistake,
or obtained through duress, menace, fraud, or undue influence, exercised by or
with the connivance of the party as to whom he rescinds, or of any other party
to the contract jointly interested with such party. [5] If
the contract is unlawful for causes which do not appear in its terms or
conditions, and the parties are not equally at fault. [6] If the public
interest will be prejudiced by permitting the contract to stand.” (Civ. Code, §
1689(b).)
 
Defendants
demur to the third cause of action for rescission on the grounds Plaintiff has
failed to allege any of the elements of Civil Code section 1689 - (1) failure
of consent, (2) failure of consideration, (3) failure to pay, (4) delay in
performance, (5) impossibility, (6) unlawful contract, (7) chain scheme, and
(8) incompetence, etc. Moreover, Plaintiff did not provide Defendants with a
Notice of Rescission and more importantly an Offer to Restore Consideration as
required by Civil Code § 1693.
 
The
court finds the allegations sufficient for the purposes of a demurrer.
Plaintiffs sufficiently allege rescission based on Defendants’ failure to
comply with Business and Professions Code section 7159. Moreover, Civil Code
section 1693 provides “[w]hen relief based upon rescission is claimed in an
action or proceeding, such relief shall not be denied because of delay
in giving notice of rescission unless such delay has been substantially
prejudicial to the other party.” (emphasis added.) Defendant has not provided
judicially noticeable facts of substantial prejudice. 
 
Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer to the third cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Fourth
Cause of Action
 
Defendants
demur to the fourth cause of action for statutory abandonment on the grounds
violation of Business and Professions Code sections 7107 and 7113 are not
recognized civil causes of action as such violations may be grounds for
discipline by the CSLB but not civil actions. 
 
The
court agrees. The case cited by plaintiff, Bailey-Sperber, Inc. v. Yosemite
Ins. Co. (1976) 64 Cal.App.3d 725, cannot be construed as approving new
causes of action premised on these two Business and Profession Code
sections.  The sections on their face
only trigger disciplinary actions.  They
do not provide for a private cause of action.  
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to the fourth cause of action is SUSTAINED
WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.   
 
Misjoinder
 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 430.10(d) provides that a demurrer may be brought on
grounds of misjoinder of parties. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(d).) Code of
Civil Procedure section 379 provides that all persons may be joined in one
action as defendants if there is any right asserted against them “arising out
of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences
and if any question of law or fact common to all these persons will arise in
the action; or [a] claim, right, or interest adverse to them in the property or
controversy which is the subject of the action.” (Id., § 379(a).) “[A]
defendant may not make allegations of defect or misjoinder of parties in the
demurrer if the pleadings do not disclose the existence of the matter relied
on; such objection must be taken by plea or answer.” (Harboring Villas
Homeowners Association v. Superior Court (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 426,
429.)  
 
Defendants
argue Defendant Anthony Johnson is misjoined because he is separate and  distinct from corporate defendant JJC
Construction, Inc. and does not have any factual contract, privity, duty, or
obligation to Plaintiff. 
 
The
court disagrees. The agreement names Defendant Johnson and was signed by
Defendant Johnson. Moreover, the alter ego allegations are sufficient. 
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer on the grounds of misjoinder is OVERRULED. 
 
 