 Case Number:  23VECV01970    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  W DALE FARLEY, ET AL. VS ESTATE OF WILLIAM STREICH, ET AL.
 
DEFENDANT
ESTATE OF WILLIAM STREITCH (DECEASED)’S MOTION TO DISMISS
 
Date of Hearing:        June 4, 2024                                      Trial Date:       None set   
Department:              W                                                        Case No:         23VECV01970
 
Moving
Party:            Defendant Estate of
William Streitch (deceased)  
Responding
Party:     No opposition 
 
FACTUAL
BACKGROUND
 
On
May 5, 2023, Plaintiff Dale Farley and Lydiette Bailey filed a complaint
against Defendants Estate of William Streich and Ingrid Streich for general
negligence and motor vehicle negligence. Plaintiffs allege Defendants
negligently owned and operated their vehicle so as to collide with decedent
Amanda Farley. 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 
Defendant Estate of William Streitch
(deceased)’s Motion to Dismiss is GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant Estate of William Stretch (deceased) pursuant to Probate
Code section 500 et seq. moves the court for order granting the motion to
dismiss on the grounds Plaintiff has improperly named the estate of William
Streich since Plaintiff refuses to limit the recovery to the policy limits. 
 
Probate Code section 550, subdivision (a) provides: “Subject to
the provisions of this chapter, an action to establish the decedent's liability
for which the decedent was protected by insurance may be commenced or continued
against the decedent's estate without the need to join as a party the
decedent's personal representative or successor in interest.” An action under
Probate Code section 550 “shall name as the defendant, ‘Estate of (name of
decedent), Deceased.’ Summons shall be served on a person designated in writing
by the insurer or, if none, on the insurer. Further proceedings shall be in the
name of the estate, but otherwise shall be conducted in the same manner as if
the action were against the personal representative.” (Prob. Code, § 552(a).)
“Unless the personal representative is joined as a party, a judgment in the
action under [Probate Code section 550] ... does not adjudicate rights by or
against the estate.” (Prob. Code, § 553.) Furthermore, unless the personal
representative is joined and the plaintiff files a creditor's claim against the
estate, the judgment in an action under Probate Code section 550 cannot exceed
the limits of the insurance coverage. (Prob. Code, § 554.) Finally, subdivision
(b) of Probate Code section 550 states: “The remedy provided in this chapter is
cumulative and may be pursued concurrently with other remedies.”
 
Probate Code section 9390, subdivision (b) provides: “Unless a
claim is first made as provided in this part, an action to establish the
decedent's liability for damages outside the limits or coverage of the
insurance may not be commenced or continued under Section 550.”
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff has not substituted any personal
representative and refused to limit the recovery to the applicable insurance
policy. Thus, naming the estate was improper. Moreover, an estate is neither a
person, natural or artificial, nor a legal entity, and cannot sue or be sued.
Defendant contends it is merely a name to indicate the sum total of the assets
and liabilities of the decedent, and the only way in which an action can be
brought against an estate is to sue the executor or administrator in his
representative capacity. Hence, an action against an estate and against others
should be dismissed as to the estate.
 
The court agrees because Plaintiff has not named a personal
representative, and the complaint improperly seeks a judgment in excess of the
policy limits. Moreover, the complaint explicitly asserts a claim against the
Estate, instead of the personal representative of the estate, or some other
legal person. This issue will need to be resolved before the case can proceed
against the Estate.
 
The motion is unopposed. Accordingly, the motion to dismiss is
GRANTED. 