  Case Number:  22VECV00301    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  W PATRICIA
LINSON v. KENNY CHESNEY, et al.
 
demurrer to first
amended complaint 
 
Date of Hearing:        June 4, 2024                                      Trial
Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        22VECV00301
 
Moving Party:            Defendant
Kenneth Arnold Chesney 
Responding Party:     Plaintiff
Patricia Linson 
Meet and Confer:      Yes.

 
BACKGROUND
 
On September 7, 2023, Plaintiff Patricia Linson filed a
first amended complaint against Defendants Kenny Chesney and Nayri Apelian for
breach of contract, fraud, civil conspiracy, breached of implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing, promissory estoppel – detrimental reliance, unjust
enrichment, vicarious liability, inadequate warning, and punitive damages.
Plaintiff alleges Defendant Chesney scammed Plaintiff into believing he was the
real country music star, Kenny Chesney and loaned him money on the belief it
was the actual music star. Plaintiff further alleges Defendant Chesney told her
Defendant Nayri Apelian was his partner and that the money should be directly
wired to her. As a result of Defendants fraud, the parties entered into an
agreement whereby Plaintiff would initially loan Defendant $90,000.00 then
another $220,000.00. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant Kenneth Arnold Chesney’s
Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant Kenneth Arnold Chesney demurs to the First Amended
Complaint on the grounds it fails to state facts sufficient to support a cause
of action or any other legally cognizable claim against Defendant.
Specifically, the causes of action are vague and nonspecific and fails to state
facts upon which relief can be granted. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff concedes the first, second, third fourth,
fifth, sixth and ninth causes of action fail to state facts sufficient to
support a claim against Defendant Chesney and should be sustained. Accordingly,
the court only addresses the third and eighth causes of action against
Defendant Chesney. 
 
Seventh Cause of Action – Vicarious Liability 
 
Defendant Chesney demurs to the seventh cause of action for
vicarious liability on the grounds it is not a cause of action and even if
viable, there are no allegations establishing Defendant Chesney’s knowledge of
the fraudulent scheme prior to its completion or that the fraudulent acts were
committed by an employee or agent of Chesney while acting within the scope of
their employment. 
 
“The rule of respondeat superior is familiar and simply stated: an
employer is vicariously liable for the torts of its employees committed within
the scope of the employment.  (Perez v. Van Groningen & Sons, Inc.
(1986) 41 Cal. 3d 962, 967.)  Equally well established, if somewhat
surprising on first encounter, is the principle that an employee’s willful,
malicious and even criminal torts may fall within the scope of his or her
employment for purposes of respondeat superior, even though the employer has
not authorized the employee to commit crimes or intentional torts.”  (Lisa
M., supra, 12 Cal. 4th at 296-97.)  “While the employee . . . need not
have intended to further the employer’s interests, the employer will not be
held liable for an assault or other intentional tort that did not have a causal
nexus to the employee’s work.”  (Id. at 297.) 
 
Defendant argues there is no cause of action for vicarious
liability and even if there was, there is no conceivable “job” that anyone
might be hired to perform for Chesney’s direct or indirect benefit that would
include providing “inside information” about Chesney’s business to strangers
for the purpose of stealing money from them.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues tort liability asserted against a
principal for the actions of another is a well-established cause of action in
civil litigation. Moreover, even if we do not know the name of the employee
involved in the fraud, it is clear by the facts of this case that either one of
his employees was the perpetrator or assisted the perpetrator in scamming
Plaintiff Linson.
 
While vicarious liability is not a stand alone cause of action,
Plaintiff may allege facts within the cause of action upon which vicarious
liability is derived from another party’s independently tortious conduct. The
court agrees that Plaintiff need not allege the name of the employee at this
time. However, it is unclear from the allegations what the underlying tort is.
The complaint alleges Plaintiff believes an employee of Defendant Chesney was
feeding Defendant John Doe inside information about Defendant Chesney’s future
business endeavors and if it was not for this inside information, Plaintiff
would never have loaned Defendant John Doe $310,000.00. Accordingly, Defendant
Chesney is vicariously liable for the actions of his employees who provided the
inside information to defraud Plaintiff Linson. None of the allegations provide
whether this was done during the course and scope of employment of “John Doe” and
whether it was incidental to employee’s duties or the misconduct could be
reasonably foreseen. 
 
As a result, the court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the seventh cause
of action WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Eighth Cause of Action – Inadequate Warning 
 
Defendant Chesney demurs to the eighth cause of action for
inadequate warning on the grounds itself is not a cause of action and even if
viable, there is no allegation that Defendant Chesney had knowledge of the
scheme alleged or any opportunity to warn Plaintiff before she sent $310,000.00
to Defendant Apelian. 
 
Defendant Chesney argues “inadequate warning” is not a cause of
action and if an attempt to plead negligence, the claim fails. The complaint
only alleges conclusory allegations and there are no allegations that Defendant
Chesney knew or should have known of the tortious acts allegedly committed by
his employees. Moreover, there is no known duty for an employer to warn the
public about possible harm arising from the conduct of employees outside the
course and scope of their employment.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues this is a negligence cause of
action for failure to warn. Plaintiff contends the complaint sufficiently
alleges Defendant Chesney was aware or reasonably should have been aware that people
were using his name in an effort to entice people into loaning them money and
should have taken simple reasonable steps to help prevent that from happening. 
 
First, the court notes irrespective of the name or label given to
a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if the
facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for relief. (See
Sheehan v. San Francisco 49ers, Ltd. (2009) 45 Cal.4th 992, 998 (stating
that the sustaining of a demurrer may only be upheld if the complaint fails to
state a cause of action under any possible legal theory).) However, the
court finds the cause of action fails to allege facts sufficient to support a
claim for negligence. Plaintiff has not provided any authority that an employer
has a duty to warn others of their employee’s fraud.  
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the eighth cause of action is
SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
 