


[1] With the addition of Dr. Arruda’s
Declaration, Plaintiff must lay the proper foundation for the admission of his medical
records.    


[2] Defendant argues Sweetwater Union
High School v. Gilbane Building Company (2019) 6 Cal.5th 931 (Sweetwater)
cannot cure the defects.  Plaintiff
failed to submit authority for the proposition that Sweetwater applies
to summary judgment proceedings.  


[3] Defendant makes the same objection
to Plaintiff’s additional evidence submitted in support of Plaintiff’s
supplemental papers.  Although the court
did not expressly permit additional evidence when ordering supplemental
briefing, the court likewise did not expressly forbid additional evidence.  Whatever the case, the court exercises its
discretion to consider Plaintiff’s supplemental evidence.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (e).)  


[4] Plaintiff was provided with Condur
earplugs 33dB, Bell earplugs 25 dB, and Portwest Classic Ear Protection QB2HYG
earplugs.  (Plaintiff’s Responses to
BSNF’s Special Interrogatories Nos. 119-122.) 



[5]  For
example, excerpts of language from the Hearing Test Notification Report
included: “The results of your hearing baseline test indicate that you have
some loss of hearing, based on nationally recognized criteria. There can be
many causes of hearing loss, some of which are medically treatable. Therefore,
you should seek the advice of an audiologist or physician concerning your
hearing ability. Always remember that exposure to loud noise, without the use
of hearing protection, will eventually result in hearing loss. When you are
exposed to loud noise on the job you are required to wear hearing protection as
prescribed by BNSF Safety Rules.”; “The results of your hearing test indicate
that further evaluation of your hearing by our consultants is necessary. You
need to call the Examinetics Medical Department at (888) 634-1011, option 3 to
discuss the evaluation needed. You will receive final results following this
evaluation.”


[6]  Under
Urie, the United States Supreme Court stated that when the specific date
of injury cannot be determined because an injury results from continual
exposure to a harmful condition over a period of time a plaintiff’s cause of
action accrues when the injury manifests itself.  Plaintiff argues the date of accrual is not when
the injury manifests itself but when the injury become severe enough that a
plaintiff should have known the condition would lead to a disability.  Plaintiff relies upon the California Supreme
Court’s holding in Coots v. Southern Pacific Co. (1958) 49 Cal.2d 805 (Coots)
to advance this argument.  Plaintiff’s
citation is inapposite. This court is bound to follow the standard set forth by
the United States Supreme Court in Urie and Kubrick.  Because the discovery rule applicable to FELA
and other federal claims statutes is a matter of federal law, opinions by the
United States Supreme Court interpreting that rule control over inconsistent
opinions by any other court.  The
California Supreme Court’s 1958 decision in Coots is inconsistent with
the High Court’s 1979 decision in Kubrick.  


[7] Defendant seeks leave to take Dr. Arruda’s deposition.
 Defendant relies upon St. Mary
Medical Center v. Superior Court (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1531 (St. Mary).  While St. Mary is distinguishable, Defendant’s
foundational challenge is well taken because Plaintiff failed to lay the proper
foundation for the admission of Plaintiff’s medical records.  And Dr. Arruda relied, in part, upon
Plaintiff’s medical records. BNSF contends Dr. Arruda’s declaration “raises
serious questions about whether it is correct and whether there is a foundation
for Dr. Arruda’s opinions.”  Given the
foregoing, if Defendant wishes to pursue Dr. Arruda’s deposition, the court
will grant Defendant’s request to take Dr. Arruda’s deposition.  The court will also grant Plaintiff leave to lay
the foundation for the admissibility of Plaintiff’s medical records, which
should be done in advance of Dr. Arruda’s deposition.  Defendant may also inquire about the scope of
Dr. Arruda’s record review including whether Dr. Arruda reviewed Plaintiff’s
deposition transcript or hearing examination records dating back to 2004.  The court will discuss this issue with
counsel.  
 


[8] Prior
to trial, Defendant may file motions
in limine to preclude admissibility of evidence regarding hearing loss.    

