


[1] It appears the principal focus will be from after
when Scott O’Neil started as CEO in December 2014 and up until Lucanish’s
departure from ODS in January 2017. 


[2] The Court found there was not good cause to
reconsider the order denying the motion for summary adjudication of the fifth
and eighth causes of action in the FACC. 


[3]  In its
February 29, 2024 ruling, the Court incorrectly concluded that the parties had
not raised this issue previously (not having reviewed those filings). It
appears they did do so. Hence, the statement that the court would therefore not
reconsider this issue – inconsistent with its earlier statement it would
consider the order denying summary adjudication of the first and sixth causes
of action (as to which this issue was a part) – is not accurate. Based on this
statement, Lucanish has apparently elected not to address all aspects of the
public policy issue.  


[4] The Court does not reach the issues concerning public
policy that Lucanish did not brief, as noted earlier, such as whether any
impact on other employees at ODS is properly considered. Lucanish did brief the
“reasonable belief” issue and the Court decides that issue. 


[5] That said, the parties should consider whether they
stipulate to filing of a supplemental complaint and cross-complaint to address
facts since the filing of this case to ensure the jury trial is tailored to
issues still disputed and pending – if that can be achieved without re-opening
discovery or delay of trial. In addition, the parties are ordered to file in
advance of the upcoming FSC any motions in limine that incorporate the effect
of the accounting trial ruling so that they can be heard based on proper notice
at that time. Further, the parties should submit a proposed joint set of jury
instructions that incorporate the effect of that ruling, with a joint statement
as to any disagreements as to those instructions for the Court to resolve at
the FSC. The latter should be filed no later than five court days before the
FSC.  

