  Case Number:  BC657947    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  200 LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT 
WEST
DISTRICT - BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE 
DEPT. 200
 
TENTATIVE RULING ON
COURT’S MOTION TO RECONSIDER ORDER DENYING ODS’ MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR
SUMMARY ADJUDICATION   
 
O’Neil
Digital Solutions, et al. v. James Lucanish, and related cross-complaint, Case
No. BC 657947
Hearing
Date: June 25, 2024, Time: 8:30 a.m. 
 
 
BACKGROUND AND STATEMENT OF CONTENTIONS 
 
          On August 16,
2017, Lucanish filed a first amended cross-complaint (“FACC”), alleging a first
cause of action for wrongful termination in violation of public policy, a
second cause of action for breach of contract, third cause of action for breach
of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, fourth cause of action
for promissory estoppel, fifth cause of action for Labor Code sec. 203
penalties, sixth cause of action for retaliation in violation of public policy,
seventh cause of action for an accounting and eighth cause of action for
wrongful termination in breach of an oral employment contract.
          On May 18, 2021,
Judge Duffy-Lewis granted the motion for summary adjudication of the fourth
cause of action of the FACC and denied the motion as to the first, second,
third, fifth, seventh and eighth causes of action of the FACC. 
In ruling on the first and sixth causes of action, the Court found
that ODS had met its burden of proof on the motion but that Lucanish “provides
this evidence of the discrepancies in accounting,” thereby creating triable
issues of fact. 
In ruling on the second and third causes of action, the Court
found that ODS “meets the burden of showing that it did not breach the MIA.
Lucanish provides evidence and argument that the MIA was breached when he was
not properly paid and then terminated.” 
In ruling on the fifth cause of action, the Court found that ODS
met its burden of proof that it “did not violate the Labor Code and they paid
Plaintiff properly. Lucanish provides sufficient evidence to support his
argument that he was not paid what he should have been paid.” 
In ruling on the eighth cause of action, the Court found “Lucanish
presents evidence from which a jury could reasonably infer that his lengthy
history of work and repeated assurances by both William and Scott that Lucanish
could remain at the company until retirement created an implied contract that
was breached when he was terminated.” 
          On May 11, 2023, Lucanish
dismissed the seventh cause of action in the FACC for an accounting. 
          On June 8, 2023, in
its Further Ruling on the OSC re: scope of bifurcated trial, the Court stated:  
The bifurcated issue will be strictly accounting what the net
profits were in 2015 and 2016 from an analysis of ODS’ financial records and
other relevant information, including hearing the competing percipient and
expert testimony in this regard, and in making that determination considering
what changes (if any) were made to how net profits were calculated in 2014 (or,
if necessary, in earlier years) for comparison “baseline” purposes only.[1] In
particular, the Court will hear the competing claims related to treatment of
“freight revenue,” transfer of funds between affiliated entities to the extent
those impact net profits and alleged accounting “discrepancies” or
“irregularities,” described also as “cooking of the books.”
          On December 11,
2023, the Court filed its Final Ruling on the cross-motions for judgment after
the net profits phase of trial. At pp. 3-4 of the Final ruling, the Court
stated: 
“On October 30, 2023, Lucanish sought to put an end to the net
profits trial by advising the Court that he would be presenting no evidence,
was withdrawing his own testimony and resting on his cross-examination of the
other witnesses. ([Fn. omitted] (While no formal statement of reasons was
provided or required, it appeared that Lucanish was concerned that potential
rulings the Court might make in determining net profits would impact the
balance of his case.) Lucanish elected further to relinquish his objections as
to all items except as to the 2016 income statement based on the audit
write-down of $675,000 regarding an invoice to CVS. [Fn. omitted] There was
therefore no longer any objection to the 2015 statement. Lucanish
indicated he would be proceeding only by way of a non-suit motion that ODS had
not met its burden of proof. The Court made sure Lucanish understood that by
his doing so if he then did not prevail on that motion, he would not have any
further opportunity to prove the contentions in his cross-complaint as to
wrongdoing in connection with the income statements. The Court reiterated that
it would be then adjudicating the amount of ODS’ net profits based on the
evidence presented.”
At p. 17 of the Final Ruling, the Court stated further in relevant
part: 
“…Lucanish did not prove ODS was reducing its statements to lower
the BOI for purposes of the accounting issues in the FACC to be decided in this
part of trial. For example, the Court heard no evidence at all related to
purported improper freight charges for shipping to customers over and above
actual costs (that was the underlying cause for the earlier phase of trial
concerning alleged spoliation of that evidence), nor concerning any of the
other specific claims alleged in the FACC, including that ODS had changed the
way it determined net profits to thereby reduce bonuses. 
[Fn. 16: Lucanish argued at the hearing that it did not put
on evidence of these issues at trial because of the Court’s ruling as to
spoliation. However, the spoliation ruling concerned solely that issue. It did
not address allegedly false freight charges. At the end of the day, Lucanish
never established and indeed gave up on his claims that ODS’ calculation of net
profits was in error.] 
What the Court did hear about at trial – related to allocation of
rental amounts as between related companies – Lucanish did not ultimately
choose to pursue. ODS is entitled to a judgment in its favor as concerns its
statement of net profits…. By finding the amount of net profits, the
Court is necessarily determining that Lucanish did not establish any
irregularities (whether in the amount of $10 million (as alleged in the FACC)
or in a lesser amount) in connection with how ODS determined its BOI… While Lucanish
may still be able to argue, as he contends, that he had concerns about ODS’
numbers, by the same token, ODS will be able to argue that those concerns
proved unfounded as the Court has determined ODS’ numbers were correct.
[Fn. 17]: .…[T]he Court seeks input from the parties at the
next FSC concerning what the competing claims will now be on ODS’ complaint and
Lucanish’s FACC in the jury trial. The parties’ trial briefs addressed issues
that may no longer be at issue or at least may now be put differently,
including that any breach of an employment agreement by ODS was based on any
intent to pay Lucanish less than it should have by way of having wrongfully
changed its NOI. While Lucanish may still be able to technically make that
claim, he would face a court determination that ODS had not erroneously reduced
its NOI, as alleged in his FACC. A judgment granted under sec. 631.8(c)
“operates as an adjudication upon the merits.”…As the Court understands it,
when Judge Duffy-Lewis heard the motion for summary judgment, she found certain
facts to be in dispute. The Court seeks input of the parties as to how this
ruling now makes this case amenable to another summary judgment motion.”        
          On January 10,
2024, the Court filed its Final Statement of Decision (“SOD”) on the net
profits phase of trial, adopting its Tentative SOD filed December 19, 2023
(that was in turn based in part upon the above-referenced Final Rulings on the
motions for judgment.)   
 
          On February 29,
2024, after briefing and argument at the hearing, the Court entered its ruling
finding good cause for ODS’ suggestion that the Court reconsider the order
denying the motion for summary adjudication of the first, second, third and
sixth causes of action in the FACC.[2]  
 
          On April 15, 2024,
ODS filed its Phase 2 briefing on the Court’s reconsideration of the order
denying the motion for summary adjudication. ODS contends each of the four
causes of action in question are subject to summary adjudication for the
following principal reasons: 
 
          First: Each cause
of action fails as a matter of law because the alleged actions of ODS, however
phrased, do not amount to conduct in violation of public policy.[3] Determination
of whether there is a public policy at issue (inuring to the benefit of the
public as opposed to just a particular employer or employee) is a question for
the Court. (Gantt v. Sentry Insurance (1992) 1 Cal.4th 1083,
1092) Specifically, as discussed in f. 3 on p. 4, Lucanish is not pursuing any
parallel claim of three hundred employees for their not receiving a bonus. Furthermore,
the evidence established at the Phase 1 trial was that there was not any foundation
for the purported public policy issue or that these alleged issues could have
been the cause of the alleged violations. 
          In addition, the
alleged wrongful conduct must be “well established” and the violation tied to
specific statutory or constitutional provisions. (Turner v. Anheuser-Busch
(1994) 7 Cal.4th 1238, 1257, Holmes v. General Dynamics (1993)
17 Cal.App.4th 1418, 1434 (sufficiently describing that the employer
knows what the prohibited conduct was) As noted, any irregularities needed to
be not just allegedly inaccurate but also illegal. 
          Finally, that even
if the employee does not have to prove illegal conduct in fact occurred, that
there must be an objective foundation for the “reasonable suspicion” (applying
three-part test in Turner, supra, 7 Cal.4th at 1247-1249, as
well as referring, by analogy, to similar reasoning in Welf. & Inst. Code
sec. 15610.65, Orange Co. Water District v. Arnold Engineering (2018) 31
Cal.App.5th 96, 116, Terry v. Ohio (1968) 392 U.S. 1, 30 and
as defined in a dictionary)    
 
          Second, as to the
first and sixth causes of action, those can no longer survive where Lucanish
waived any claim of accounting regularities by electing not to put on any
evidence in the Phase 1 trial. In turn, he is bound by the order in favor of
ODS on the accounting issues that were the subject of the Phase 1 trial. Hence,
the Declaration of Jamie Holmes filed in opposition to the underlying motion is
no longer relevant. Lucanish had his opportunity to put on Holmes to prove what
he asserted and chose not to do so – though put on notice that he would be
bound by the ensuing order in Phase 2 of trial. As a result, in view of this
changed circumstance since 2011 when this motion was heard, Lucanish cannot now
establish any triable issue of fact that was premised on Holmes’ testimony -
which has since become moot.  Further,
Holmes’ opinions about years after the two years at issue in the Phase 1 trial lack
foundation where those projections necessarily depend upon opinions as to
earlier years – subsequently found to be without merit. 
 
          Third, as to the first,
second and third causes of action, those can no longer survive where Lucanish
cannot establish that ODS wrongfully denied him a bonus where this again admittedly
hinges on ODS having engaged in accounting irregularities the Court has now
determined did not exist and which claim Lucanish gave up contending in Phase 1
of trial. 
 
          On June 3, 2024,
Lucanish filed his Opposition. He argues as follows:
 
          First, the Court
violated his right to due process by reconsideration of a summary judgment
order after an intervening trial. The Court cannot permissibly consider what
occurred during the earlier trial because he did not put on evidence out of
concern that this would then preclude his being able to present those issues to
a jury. The Court should have provided him notice that it might reconsider the
order so he would know what evidence to put on in the bench trial (when he
thought it concerned only the accounting issues.)  If the Court is augmenting the record for
purposes of reconsideration by consideration of what occurred at trial, the
Court should have allowed Lucanish to submit new evidence to oppose the motion.
The Court should have required ODS to refile a new summary judgment motion or
separate statement. Alternatively, the motion cannot be considered without a
new separate statement that outlines what is at issue at this time or
explanation by ODS how the facts in that statement are no longer disputed, as
is its burden. In turn, the required seventy-five-day notice was not given nor
opportunity to conduct discovery under CCP sec. 437c(h). (Torres v. Design
Group Facility Solutions (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 239, 243 (motion
for reconsideration in effect a renewed motion for summary judgment)).  
 
          Second, the
outcome of the accounting trial is irrelevant to Lucanish’s reasonable
suspicion of irregularities with ODS’ accounting. A plaintiff suing for
wrongful termination of employment does not have to have been right about his
suspicions. (Green v. Ralee Engineering (1998) 19 Cal.4th 66,
87) Whether there are “reasonably based suspicions” of illegal activity is a
subjective question of what belief the employee held, not objective, even if
that belief cannot be entirely unfounded. (Id.) (See also Barbosa
v. IMPCO Techs (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1122) (consideration
of whether mistaken basis for acting as whistleblower was in good faith). Turner,
supra, on which ODS relies, is inapposite here where that case concerned whether
a reasonable employee would have quit in the context of a constructive
discharge claim.  
          
          Third, “reasonableness”
is an issue for a  jury unless there is
no evidence from which a juror could find Lucanish’s concerns were reasonable. (Edgerly
v. Oakland (2102) 211 Cal.App.4th 1191, 1206) The bench trial
did not address why Lucanish believed in 2016 that the figures were
wrong, only what those figures were or should have been. Lucanish presented
various facts in opposition to the summary judgment motion why he believed his
concerns were reasonable. (See Opposition, pp. 11-12) Holmes’ expert
opinion testimony concerning what Lucanish would have believed is not impacted
by the bench trial decision. 
 
          Fourth, the Court
was previously provided with disputed facts as to the cause for termination, as
well as concerning what level of information was provided to ODS that it would
know there was an accounting concern. 
 
          Fifth, the breach
of contract cause of action for bonuses did not depend on accounting
irregularities but ODS allegedly interfering with Lucanish’s ability to manage
ODS and similar issues. The years in question for a bonus also went beyond the
two years in question at the bench trial. Holmes provided opinions for 2017 and
2018, as well as concerning 2015 and 2016. As outlined on pp. 18-20, bonuses in
the later years were not dependent on what occurred in the earlier years. 
 
          Finally, if the
Court were to grant any part of the motion, Lucanish should be allowed to amend
the cross-complaint to address what has occurred between when it was filed in
August 2017 and the end of the bench trial. (Kirby v. Seeno Construction
(1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 1059, Bostrom v. San Bernardino (1995) 35
Cal.App.4th 1654)
 
          On June 14, 2023,
ODS filed its Reply. ODS argues as follows:
 
          First, the court’s
motion for reconsideration is proper and consistent with due process in
allowing first for briefing a hearing to decide whether reconsideration was
proper at all. It is not a motion for summary judgment and those rules do not
apply here. The order in favor of ODS on the accounting issues eliminates the
triable facts relied on in denying summary judgment. Amending a pleading is not
possible after grant of summary judgment. 
 
          Second, whether
there is a reasonable suspicion of illegality, for purposes of wrongful
termination, turns on if what the employer is alerted to sufficiently described
prohibited conduct to enable the employer to know the policies expressed in the
applicable law. (Holmes v. General Dynamics (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th
1418, 1434, Sequoia Ins. Co. v. Sup. Court (1993) 13 Cal.App.4th
1472, 1480) Assessment of reasonableness of an employee’s conduct is not an
issue for the jury, nor one for an accounting expert (Holmes) to opine
concerning. ODS argues that the court’s finding of lack of irregularities in
the accounting precludes the court now concluding that there could have been sufficient
facts communicated to ODS as a basis for there to have been illegality. 
 
          Third, the issue
now is whether Lucanish is precluded by collateral estoppel from continuing to assert
he communicated such misgivings when at trial the Court found there was not any
such wrongdoing or by waiver where he withdrew that claim. (Orange Co. Water
Dist. v. Alcoa (2017) 12 Cal.App.5th 252, 359-360 (“All of the trial court's equitable
findings were binding on the District's legal claims, regardless of whether
they were necessary for the judgment. “Issues adjudicated in earlier phases of
a bifurcated trial are binding in later phases of that trial and need not be
relitigated. [Citations.] No other rule is possible, or bifurcation of trial
issues would create duplication, thus subverting the procedure's goal of
efficiency. [Citation.] ‘[D]uplication of effort is the very opposite of the
purpose of bifurcated trials….’” Although courts have compared the binding
effect of factual findings in a prior phase of trial to collateral estoppel [citation
omitted], the District has not shown the requirements of collateral estoppel
apply here.”), Smith v. ExxonMobil (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th
1407, 1417) ODS contends that given the broad scope of what was to be considered
in determining the accounting issues, as quoted above, that this would necessarily
include Lucanish’s beliefs. 
 
          Fourth, Lucanish’s
opposition to the motion for summary judgment on the breach of contract cause
of action was based on the claim that: “By preventing the Operating Income
thresholds from being met through accounting games and operational changes, ODS
breached the MIA.” ODS argues that the Court decided already that the milestone
was not reached and hence this cannot now be a triable issue. 
 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
1.     
Procedural Issues 
 
          The remarks of the
Court that Lucanish cites from in claiming lack of due process is misleading
and in fact shows that the Court was concerned to protect Lucanish from the
unintended consequences of his raising issues – concerning breach of contract -
outside the accounting issues – where the Court had previously reminded the
parties that like in any bifurcated trial the effect of the earlier trial would
be binding in later proceedings. Lucanish’s continuing attempt to argue that
the Court was deciding more than the scope outlined beforehand conflates what
was at issue with the legal consequences of resolution of those issues.
Similarly, Lucanish’s claim that the Court should have notified the parties that
it might reconsider the summary judgment ruling assumes erroneously that the Court
would have known the outcome of the accounting issues trial before it started or
that the Court could have suspected that Lucanish would then elect during trial
to withdraw his claims (after the Court of Appeal denied his writ petition
concerning alleged bias of the court in its tentative statement of decision
concerning spoliation.)  
 
          In turn,
Lucanish’s decision to not put on evidence in an accounting trial about
accounting issues (after the Court of Appeal had already also separately denied
an earlier petition for writ based on the order bifurcating trial) – as a means
of continuing to argue that these were issues for a jury - cannot blamed on the
Court. Moreover, as the Court noted in its final ruling on the accounting
issues, it appeared to the Court that the reason Lucanish may not have put on
the accounting evidence was because Lucanish had previously failed to prove
spoliation of evidence by ODS that would have if successful avoided the need to
establish wrongdoing by ODS in its accounting, not out of any wish to have a
jury decide these issues. According to ODS, the opinion of Lucanish’s expert,
Jamie Holmes, about irregularities in ODS accounting apparently was based erroneously
at least in part in the belief that ODS had wrongly destroyed evidence. Therefore,
Lucanish likely believed this would not have been persuasive to the Court. 
   
          This motion for
reconsideration is not a motion for summary judgment requiring 75-day notice or
a new separate statement. (Moreover, the parties stipulated to the briefing
schedule and the Court gave Lucanish the extra time he requested after
receiving ODS’ briefing.) The Court specifically disallowed either party from
introducing new evidence precisely to ensure reconsideration concerned the same
facts and issues as were addressed before, with the sole caveat as to the new
circumstance by way of the ruling after trial on the accounting issues and what
legal consequence that would have. As ODS notes, the purpose was simply
to ensure as a matter of efficiency that the upcoming jury trial should not address
matters that were decided already. 
 
          The Court has
carefully proceeded at each step to ensure fairness to both sides and given
ample opportunity for the parties to weigh in at each point, as well as to allow
for focus on the determination of each of the complex issues involved one by
one in multiple detailed statements of decision and related rulings. There is not
anything novel here whereby either party has been prejudiced or their right to
jury trial abrogated under CCP sec. 1048. (See Orange Co. Water
District, supra, 12 Cal.App.5th at 353-355 (“It is well established that, in a case
involving both legal and equitable issues, the trial court may proceed to try
the equitable issues first, without a jury..., and that if the court's
determination of those issues is also dispositive of the legal issues, nothing
further remains to be tried by a jury….Indeed, reviewing courts have emphasized
that the better practice for trial courts is to decide equitable issues first
for the explicit reason that a jury trial on any legal issues may be avoided.
“Generally, in mixed actions, the equitable issues should be tried first by the
court, either with or without an advisory jury. [Citations.] Trial courts are
encouraged to apply this ‘equity first’ rule because it promotes judicial
economy by potentially obviating the need for a jury trial.…this jury trial right is not
inconsistent with the further principle that any factual findings made
following a bench trial on the District’s equitable claims may be binding on
its legal claims, and the right is not infringed by its application….”) 
 
          Torres, supra, concerns a slightly
different scenario. The issue there was that the trial court was found to be in
error in having granted a motion for summary judgment at the same time
as it granted reconsideration of its order denying summary judgment based on
new facts where it did not give the non-prevailing party an opportunity to
address those new facts. Here, there are no new facts, except the prior ruling.
The Court has already held a hearing on whether it might reconsider the issue.
In turn, Lucanish thereafter had an opportunity to address why the prior trial ruling
should not change the ruling on the summary judgment motion by way of its
opposition discussed above. This in turn is not a renewed motion by ODS but the
Court’s own reconsideration of the same facts as presented earlier in the
context of the later trial ruling.  
 
2.     
The Merits  
 
         The ruling to deny
summary adjudication as to the first and sixth causes of action was premised on
supposed disputed facts as to asserted accounting irregularities. This Court
has subsequently found that there were no accounting irregularities.[4] That
decision is now binding in terms of reconsidering whether there are disputed
facts to deny summary judgment. 
 
          As it turns out,
however, the accounting irregularities themselves were not the only evidence
based on which there were disputed facts: A public policy violation turns in
part on whether Lucanish reasonably believed there were accounting
irregularities. The Court did not previously try that issue. The Court did not
consider Lucanish’s beliefs; nor was that evidence presented. Those beliefs, as
Lucanish now acknowledges, were erroneous. That, however, does not necessarily
mean he was wrong to have raised them or had reason to think there might be. Lucanish
presented evidence in opposition to the motion for summary judgment showing why
he believed what he did. (See Lucanish Decl., paras. 35-40, 57-62) ODS
presented conflicting evidence as to what Lucanish informed others at ODS
concerning and its relevance. (See Scott O’Neill Decl., para. 22, Robert
Beste Decl.) Though the absence of irregularities is one critical factor in the
reasonableness of a party’s belief, there are still other factors – which again
are in dispute. 
 
          The Court likewise
did not consider whether ODS was given sufficient information based upon which
it might have inferred there was illegal conduct. There was also conflicting
evidence on this issue, including from Holmes based on his analysis of the
underlying records (not just based on ODS having missing records). (Holmes
Decl., paras. 10-21) The Court does not decide those factual issues on a motion
for summary judgment. It is enough now for these purposes that the evidence was
disputed on both these issues and therefore there continue to be disputed facts
that were presented justifying the denial of the summary judgment motion. See
Lucanish’s Separate Statement in opposition to motion, facts. 28, 71-73 and 82.
In addition, Lucanish provided evidence to support alleged additional disputed
facts: 104, 108-112 and 117-118. 
 
           The Court also does not believe it is material
at least at this stage whether the reasonableness of Lucanish’s belief is
reviewed objectively or subjectively. Both considerations are likely applicable
on some level that the cited cases do not articulate. This issue is not
material here because it would not be for the Court to decide regardless unless
no juror could reasonably believe Lucanish could not have had that belief. Here,
ODS has not presented that argument. Regardless, the Court finds it cannot make
that determination given the conflicting declarations.  
 
          As quoted above
from Orange Co. Water District , supra, collateral estoppel also does
not apply here to bar Lucanish continuing to assert he had those beliefs where
his beliefs were not an issue previously tried, nor one that was “necessarily
decided” after the earlier trial. (Smith, supra, 153 Cal.App.4th
at 1414) Though the accounting trial was not just a matter of deciding the
numbers, as indicated above, and required analysis of whether claims about the
numbers were right or wrong, that did not also mean that the Court also had to
decide whether the claim of irregularities was “entirely unfounded.” (Green,
supra) Likewise, unlike in Orange Co. Water District , supra, here Lucanish
has not waived his argument as to the reasons he held that belief – even if he
did expressly withdraw his claim of irregularities. The two are distinct. Moreover,
it is basic that a waiver of rights is not implied but needs to have been
intentional. Therefore, ODS’ reliance on those doctrines is misplaced here.  
 
          The ruling denying
summary adjudication of the second and third causes of action was not
premised expressly on the accounting issues in determining that there was a
triable issue regarding any contractual entitlement to a bonus. The Court had
understood in the ruling’s reference to a bonus that this was based on the
accounting issues subsequently decided. However, even if it were, the Court did
not decide accounting issues for 2017 and 2018 (as Lucanish had requested and
ODS had opposed.) Lucanish has in any event demonstrated that he presented
evidence in opposing the summary judgment motion that there was some evidence
(be it disputed (see Beste Decl.)) to support his entitlement to bonuses
in those years for reasons separate and apart from accounting issues and allegedly
independent of whatever he might have received by way of bonus for 2015 and
2016, namely, alleged interference by Scott O’Neill in Lucanish managing ODS. (See
Lucanish Decl., paras. 23-25, Holmes Decl., para. 21, as well as McNulty Decl.
as to later years) The Court rejects ODS’ claim that the Court already decided that
ODS did not reach the profit margins that Lucanish would not have been entitled
to a bonus in those years. Any such evidence was not within the scope of the
issues to be tried. 
 
          Where the ruling
denying the motion for summary judgment stands, the Court does not reach the
also disputed issue about amending the pleadings after a ruling granting a
summary judgment motion. [5]  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 
          For these reasons,
after further reconsideration of the merits of the underlying summary judgment motion,
the Court denies this motion. 


