 Case Number:  24STCV04836    Hearing Date:   December 16, 2024    Dept:  52 Tentative Ruling:
            Defendants
SurrogateFirst and Lina Li’s Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of Third
Amended Complaint          
Demurrer
            Defendants SurrogateFirst and Lina
Li demur to both causes of action alleged by plaintiff Mingxi Zhu’s third
amended complaint.
Summary
of Allegations
            The third amended complaint alleges
that in 2021, plaintiff entered a contract with defendant SurrogateFirst to
facilitate surrogacies.  (3AC, ¶¶
11-14.)  Defendant Li founded
SurrogateFirst.  (¶ 11.)  Plaintiff paid SurrogateFirst $650,000 for six
surrogacies to pay for the surrogates’ “compensation fee, health insurance, medical
expenses, reimbursable expenses, circumstantial medical expense, and monthly
allowances,” plus money “to cover any additional potential costs.”  (¶ 14.) 
From October 2021 and March 2023, “SurrogateFirst requested additional
funds to cover expenses after the original $650,000.”  (¶ 15.) 
“Upon request, receipts were not provided to show where these funds were
transferred and why the additional funds were being requested.”  (Ibid.)  
            Plaintiff further alleges that in
2022, “Lina Li inappropriately requested Plaintiff to lend her money to
renovate her house, for which Plaintiff refused.”  (¶ 19.) 
Later, “Li instructed Plaintiff to wire funds to various construction
companies supposedly for purposes of the surrogacies.”  (¶ 20.) 
Plaintiff sent six wire transfers in specified amounts to three
companies.  (Ibid.)  In 2022, plaintiff “requested an accounting
of the bills and receipts regarding the funds for the surrogacies,” and Li
refused.  (¶ 21.)  “Li ultimately agreed to refund $190,000,”
but has not done so.  (Ibid.)
1st Cause
of Action: Accounting
Plaintiff
alleges sufficient facts for this cause of action.  “An action for an accounting has two elements: (1) ‘that a relationship exists between the
plaintiff and defendant that requires an accounting’ and (2) ‘that some balance
is due the plaintiff that can only be ascertained by an accounting.’ ”  (Sass v. Cohen (2020) 10 Cal.5th 861,
869.)  “An action for an accounting has been
characterized as ‘a means of discovery.’ ” 
(Ibid.)  “The plaintiff’s
lack of knowledge drives the need for discovery; and the fact that the gap can
be filled via discovery implies the information is within the control of
the defendant.  In other words, the
defendant in an accounting action possesses information unknown to the
plaintiff that is relevant for the computation of money owed.”  (Ibid.) 
Plaintiff alleges a sufficient relationship
between the parties: defendants agreed to facilitate surrogacies, and
plaintiffs sent them money for that purpose. 
When liberally construed, the third amended complaint alleges defendants
used money intended for the surrogates for other purposes, thus resulting in
overcharging plaintiff.  As a result,
defendants possess the information necessary to determine what the money was
used for and how much of it (if any) plaintiff should not have been required to
pay and should be entitled to recover.
2nd Cause of Action: Conversion  
Plaintiff alleges sufficient facts for
conversion.  “The basic elements of
[conversion] are (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of
personal property; (2) the defendant’s disposition of the property in a manner
that is inconsistent with the plaintiff’s property rights; and (3) resulting damages.”  (Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General
Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.) 
On
the pleadings, a plaintiff generally may “state[] a cause of action for
conversion by alleging” conversion of “an amount of cash ‘capable of
identification’ ” without alleging the exact amount.  (PCO, Inc. v. Christensen, Miller, Fink,
Jacobs, Glaser, Weil & Shapiro, LLP (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 384, 397.)
Plaintiff alleges defendants are liable for conversion because “funds
intended for the surrogacies … were used for improper means.”  (3AC, ¶ 32.) 
He alleges he sent six wire transfers (in specified amounts on specified
dates) to three construction companies “for purposes of the surrogacies.”  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff alleges, “Defendants interfered
with Plaintiff’s property (i.e., the wired personal funds) by knowingly or
intentionally taking possession of the funds for purposes other than the
aforementioned surrogacies.”  (¶
39.)  But plaintiff “did not consent to
the wiring of personal funds to anything other than to facilitate the …
surrogacies.”  (¶ 40.)  Plaintiff alleges, “[H]e was harmed as he
thought the funds he wired to the Construction Companies were for facilitation
and related costs of the aforementioned surrogacies.”  (¶ 41.) 
Plaintiff thus alleges he sent money as directed by defendants, then they
misused it.  The tort of conversion can
apply to “a taking that is initially authorized.”  (Duke v. Superior Court (2017) 18
Cal.App.5th 490, 506.)  “ ‘If a defendant
is authorized to make a specific use of a plaintiff’s property, use in excess
of that authorized may subject the defendant to liability for conversion, if
such use seriously violates another’s right to control the use of the
property.’ ”  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff alleges defendant was authorized to
use the money only to cover the costs of surrogacies but instead used it for
other purposes.  These allegations
suffice for conversion.
Defendants argue plaintiff did not allege defendants
possessed the funds; instead, he alleges he paid the money to third
parties.  Conversion does not require
that the defendant literally possessed the property.  “ ‘Conversion is the wrongful exercise of dominion over the property
of another.’ ”  (Spates v. Dameron Hospital Assn. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 208, 221.)  A defendant may be liable for “ ‘conversion
by a wrongful act or disposition of property rights.’ ”  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff alleges defendants converted the
money via a wrongful act or disposition in that they caused the money to be
used for purposes other than the reason plaintiff sent it.
Motion to Strike
            Defendants SurrogateFirst and Lina
Li move to strike three categories of portions of plaintiff’s third amended
complaint.  
First,
defendants move to strike portions of the pleading regarding punitive
damages.  Plaintiff alleges sufficient facts to
recover punitive damages.  Punitive
damages require “that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd.
(a).)  “ ‘Fraud’ means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”  (Id., subd. (c)(3).)  Plaintiff alleges sufficient facts to
constitute misrepresentation with the intention to deprive him of property
rights: defendants led him to transfer funds for the purpose of facilitating
surrogacies, but instead used the funds for other purposes.  The court cannot conclude that, as a matter
of law, these allegations do not constitute fraud under Civil Code section
3294.   
            Second, defendants move to strike
the prayer for attorney fees.  Plaintiff’s
opposition expressly concedes on that issue. 
    
            Third, defendants move to strike
various factual allegations concerning the surrogacies.  A
party may move to strike portions of pleadings that are “irrelevant, false, or
improper matter.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,
subd. (a).)  Irrelevant matter includes
allegations “not essential to the statement of a claim or defense” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 431.10, subd. (b)(1)) and those “neither pertinent to nor supported by
an otherwise sufficient claim or defense” (id., subd. (b)(2)).  The allegations in paragraphs 12, 13, 16, 17,
and 22 are not pertinent to the claims in plaintiff’s third amended
complaint.  Plaintiff’s opposition did
not address this category of allegations. 

Disposition
            Defendants
SurrogateFirst and Lina Li’s demurrer to plaintiff Mingxi Zhu’s third amended complaint
is overruled.
            Defendants
SurrogateFirst and Lina Li’s motion to strike portions of plaintiff Mingxi
Zhu’s third amended complaint is granted in part as
to attorney fees and the challenged factual allegations.
            The
court hereby strikes the following portions of
the third amended complaint without leave to amend:
the entirety of paragraphs 12, 13, 16, 17, and 22, and paragraph 7 of the
prayer for relief.
            Defendants
SurrogateFirst and Lina Li shall answer the third amended complaint within 20
days.