 Case Number:  23STCV23291    Hearing Date:   December 16, 2024    Dept:  52 Tentative Ruling:
Plaintiff Fernando A.
Silva Quintana’s Motion for Evidentiary, Issue, and/or Terminating Sanctions
Plaintiff Fernando A. Silva
Quintana moves for discovery sanctions against defendant Guardian Eagle
Security, Inc. (Guardian).  After the court grants a motion to compel
discovery responses, if the responding “party then fails to obey,” the court
may impose terminating sanctions, issue sanctions, evidence sanctions, and/or
monetary sanctions.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.290, subd. (c) [interrogatories]; § 2031.300, subd. (c) [requests for
production].)
Guardian disobeyed orders compelling discovery
responses.  On August 1, 2024, the court
ordered Guardian to serve responses to requests for production and special
interrogatories within 30 days.  The
court also ordered Guardian and its counsel to pay monetary sanctions within 30
days.  As of October 23, 2024, when
plaintiff filed this motion, Guardian had not served any discovery responses
and not paid any of the monetary sanctions. 
(Sirmabekian Decl., ¶ 8.)  
Appropriate Sanctions
Discovery
sanctions should be imposed incrementally, “starting with monetary sanctions and ending with the ultimate
sanction of termination.”  (Lopez v.
Watchtower Bible & Tract Society of New York, Inc. (2016) 246
Cal.App.4th 566, 604.)  Appropriate sanctions are those “such as are
suitable and necessary to enable the party seeking discovery to obtain the
objects of the discovery he seeks, but [not] which are designed not to
accomplish the objects of discovery but to impose punishment.”  (Laguna Auto Body v. Farmers Ins. Exchange (1991)
231 Cal.App.3d 481, 488.)  
Terminating sanctions are
appropriate.  Sanctions short of termination have been
ineffective to curb Guardian’s misuse of the discovery process.  The monetary sanctions had no effect on Guardian.  Plaintiff has been completely unable to
accomplish the objects of discovery.  “The purpose of discovery is to make trial ‘
“less a game of blindman’s bluff and more a fair contest with the basic issues
and facts disclosed to the fullest practicable extent.” ’ ”  (Reales Investment, LLC v. Johnson (2020)
55 Cal.App.5th 463, 473.)  Guardian has
not complied with its discovery obligations. 
It disobeyed the court’s orders compelling it to do so.  Its misuse of the discovery process has
prevented plaintiff from conducting any discovery as to Guardian.  Absent terminating sanctions,
plaintiff would face trial by surprise. 
Under these circumstances, the court finds terminating sanctions
appropriate.  The court therefore will
strike Guardian’s answer and enter its default. 
The court exercises its discretion not to impose
additional monetary sanctions on Guardian.
Disposition
            Plaintiff Fernando A. Silva
Quintana’s motion for discovery sanctions is granted.  The court hereby strikes the answer of
defendant Guardian Eagle Security, Inc. 
The court hereby enters the default of defendant Guardian Eagle
Security, Inc.  