  Case Number:  23AHCP00275    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



SHANGHAI TONGSHENG INVESTMENT CO., LTD., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
ZHOU
   XIAOGUANG, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCP00275
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: NONPARTY WESLEY H. AVERY’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO
  INTERVENE
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
January
   21, 2025



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On November 6, 2024, nonparty Wesley H.
Avery (“Intervenor”), as the Chapter 7 bankruptcy trustee for defendant Yu
Yunxin (“Yu”), filed this motion for leave to intervene in this action. A copy
of the proposed complaint-in-intervention is attached as Exhibit 1 to the
motion. On January 9, 2025, plaintiff Shanghai Tongsheng Investment Co., Ltd.
(“Plaintiff”) filed a notice of non-opposition to this motion. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
A nonparty shall petition the court for
leave to intervene by noticed motion or by ex parte application. The petition
shall include a copy of the proposed complaint in intervention or answer in
intervention and set forth the grounds upon which intervention rests. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (c).) The court shall, upon timely application, permit
a nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if a provision of law
confers an unconditional right to intervene, or the person seeking intervention
claims an interest relating to the property or transaction that is the subject
of the action and that person is so situated that the disposition of the action
may impair or impede that person’s ability to protect that interest, unless
that person’s interest is adequately represented by one or more of the existing
parties. (Code Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (d)(1).) The court may, upon timely
application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if the
person has an interest in the matter in litigation, or in the success of either
of the parties, or an interest against both. (Code Civ. Proc., § 387, subd.
(d)(2).)
“The trial court has the discretion to
allow intervention where the proper procedures are followed, provided: (1) the
intervenor has a direct and immediate interest in the litigation, (2) the
intervention will not enlarge the issues in the case, and (3) the reasons for
intervention outweigh opposition by the existing parties.” (Hinton v. Beck (2009) 176 Cal.4th 1378,
1382-1383.) “A person has a direct interest justifying intervention in
litigation where the judgment in the action of itself adds or detracts from his
legal rights without reference to rights and duties not involved in the
litigation.” (Continental Vinyl Products
Corp. v. Mead Corp. (1972) 27 Cal.App.3d 543, 549.) 
III.       
DISCUSSION
Intervenor is the appointed bankruptcy
trustee in a pending involuntary Chapter 7 bankruptcy action concerning Yu that
was filed by various creditors, including Plaintiff. (Motion, p. 4, Ex. 4.) Intervenor
argues that his intervention is necessary because the parties to this action
have stipulated to (and the Court has ordered) the distribution of $4.6 million
in proceeds from Yu’s sale of certain property that is currently held with
Rowland Escrow. (Motion, p. 2.) As the funds are property of the bankruptcy
estate, Intervenor moves to intervene and distribute property from Yu’s
bankruptcy estate. (11 U.S.C. §§ 541; 542.) Intervenor argues that the $4.6
million, as property of the bankruptcy estate, must be delivered to him in
order to administer and distribute assets to Yu’s creditors. 
Only Plaintiff filed a notice of
non-opposition. No other response was filed by any other parties. Given the
lack of opposition and the authority cited by Intervenor regarding his role as
the Chapter 7 bankruptcy trustee, Intervenor has established his right to
intervene and recover property belonging to Yu’s bankruptcy estate. 
IV.       
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, Intervenor’s
motion is GRANTED. Intervenor is ordered to file the proposed
complaint-in-intervention with 5 court days. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 21st
day of January
2025
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 