  Case Number:  21STCV38410    Hearing Date:   April 15, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion to Bifurcate the Issues of
Liability and Punitive Damages at Trial
 
Moving Party: Defendant
Southern California Permanente Medical Group 
Resp. Party:    Plaintiff Jawchyi C. Lee
 
SUBJECT:        Motion to Compel Plaintiff to Provide
Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set Six
 
Moving Party: Defendant
Southern California Permanente Medical Group 
Resp. Party:    Plaintiff Jawchyi C. Lee
 
SUBJECT:        Motion for an Order Compelling the
Deposition of Dr. Gary Godorov
 
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Jawchyi C. Lee
Resp. Party:    Defendant Southern California Permanente
Medical Group
 
 
 
The hearing on the Motion to Bifurcate is
ADVANCED from April 17, 2024 to April 15, 2024.  The
Motion to Bifurcate is GRANTED. Issues of punitive
damages and Defendant’s financial condition are BIFURCATED from the initial
trial in this matter until such time that the trier of fact returns a verdict
for Plaintiff awarding damages and finds Defendant guilty of malice,
oppression, and/or fraud.
 
The Further RPDs Motion is GRANTED. Plaintiff
shall serve further responses to the RPDs within seven (7) days of the issuance
of this Order.
 
The Motion to Compel Deposition is GRANTED.
Dr. Godorov shall be made available for a deposition within seven (7) days of
the issuance of this Order. 
 
 
PRELIMINARY COMMENT:
 
        The Motion to Bifurcate is
unopposed.  The Court does not understand
why both counsel didn’t simply stipulate to the bifurcation, thus saving
counsel, the Court and its staff the time to write and analyze this unopposed –
and statutorily-mandated – bifurcation.
 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
        On October 19, 2021, Plaintiff Jawchyi
C. Lee filed his Complaint against Defendant Southern California Permanente
Medical Group (initially sued as Kaiser Foundation Hospitals) on causes of
action of defamation, violation of Health and Safety Code section 1278.5,
violations of Labor Code section 6300 et seq. and 6400 et seq., and violation
of Labor Code section 1102.5. 
 
        On October 22, 2021, Plaintiff filed his
First Amended Complaint (FAC).
 
        On February 8, 2022, Defendant filed its
Answer to the FAC.
 
        On March 25, 2024, Defendant filed its
Motion to Bifurcate the Issues of Liability and Punitive Damages at Trial
(“Motion to Bifurcate”). 
 
        On April 2, 2024, Defendant filed its
Motion to Compel Plaintiff to Provide Further Responses to Request for
Production of Documents, Set Six (“Further RPDs Motion”). In support of its
Further RPDs Motion, Defendant concurrently filed: (1) Separate Statement; and
(2) Proposed Order. 
 
        On April 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed his
Motion for an Order Compelling the Deposition of Dr. Gary Godorov (“Motion to
Compel Deposition”). In support of his Motion to Compel Deposition, Plaintiff
concurrently filed his Proposed Order. 
 
        On April 8, 2024, Defendant filed its
Opposition to the Motion to Compel Deposition. 
 
        On April 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed his Opposition
to the Further RPDs Motion. 
 
        On April 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed his
Response to the Motion to Bifurcate. 
 
        On April 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed his
Reply in support of the Motion to Compel Deposition. 
 
        On April 10, 2024, Defendant filed its
Reply in support of the Further RPDs Motion. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Motion to Bifurcate
 
A.      Advancing
the Hearing
 
Two of the motions are scheduled to be heard
on April 15, 2024. However, the Motion to Bifurcate is scheduled to be heard on
April 17, 2024. Plaintiff has filed a response indicating that he does not
oppose the Motion to Bifurcate. 
 
        So that the three motions
can be heard and considered at the same time, the Court ADVANCES the April 17,
2024 hearing to April 15, 2024. Any party that wishes to contest this may do so
at the hearing on April 15, 2024. 
 
B.      Legal
Standard
 
“The court may, when the convenience of
witnesses, the ends of justice, or the economy and efficiency of handling the
litigation would be promoted thereby, on motion of a party, after notice and
hearing, make an order . . . that the trial of any issue or any part thereof
shall precede the trial of any other issue or any part thereof in the case . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 598.)
 
“The court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid
prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and economy,
may order a separate trial of any cause of action, including a cause of action
asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any number of
causes of action or issues . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd. (b).)
 
“The court shall, on application of any defendant, preclude
the admission of evidence of that defendant’s profits or financial condition
until after the trier of fact returns a verdict for plaintiff awarding actual
damages and finds that a defendant is guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud in
accordance with Section 3294. . . .” (Civ. Code, § 3295, subd. (d).)
 
C. 
    Discussion
 
Defendant requests that the Court bifurcate
the issue of punitive damages and preclude evidence of, reference to, and/or
questions concerning the profits and/or financial condition of Defendants.
(Motion to Bifurcate, p. 6:9–19.) 
 
        Plaintiff indicates that he
does not oppose this relief. (Response to Motion to Bifurcate, p. 1:22.)
 
Upon Defendant’s request, the Court is required to bifurcate
the trial as to the evidence on Defendant’s financial condition and the issue
of punitive damages. (Civ. Code, § 3295.) 
 
        The Court GRANTS the Motion
to Bifurcate. 
 
D.      Conclusion
 
The hearing on the Motion to Bifurcate is
ADVANCED from April 17, 2024 to April 15, 2024. The Motion to Bifurcate is GRANTED. Issues of punitive
damages and Defendant’s financial condition are BIFURCATED from the initial
trial in this matter until such time that the trier of fact returns a verdict
for Plaintiff awarding damages and finds Defendant guilty of malice,
oppression, and/or fraud.
 
II.      
Further RPDs Motion
 
A.      Legal
Standard
 
On receipt of a
response to form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and/or demand
requests, the propounding and/or demanding party “may move for an order
compelling further response” if: (1) the response is evasive or incomplete; (2)
the representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or
evasive; or (3) the objection is without merit or too general. (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (a), 2031.310, subd. (a).)
 
The court shall
impose monetary sanctions against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further interrogatories
and/or a motion to compel further production of documents, unless the Court
finds that the one subject to sanction acted with substantial justification or
that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (d), 2031.310, subd. (h).)
 
B.      Discussion
 
Defendant moves the Court to compel Plaintiff
to provide further responses to the requests for production of documents
(“RPDs”) that Defendant propounded on Plaintiff. (Further RPDs Motion, p.
10:10–12.) Notably, the requests propounded on Plaintiff are exactly the same
as those recently requested of the United States Department of Veteran’s
Affairs (“VA”). (See Separate Statement; see also Motion for an Order Directing
the Department of Veteran’s Affairs to Produce Documents at Trial and for
Testimony by Department of Veteran’s Affairs Employee, Dr. Tom Blair, Exh. B.)
 
        Plaintiff opposes the
Further RPDs Motion, arguing: (1) that California law does not require a
plaintiff in a failure to hire/promote case to seek another job when he is
already employed; and (2) that Plaintiff has an overriding privacy interest in
his employment records from the VA. (Opposition, pp. 4:7–8, 5:22–23.)
 
        The Court allowed these
records to be requested of the VA. To quickly summarize: (1) Defendant is
allowed to discover these records in order to obtain evidence in support of its
failure to mitigate defense to the cause of action for defamation; and (2) upon
balancing the interests, Defendant should be able to obtain these records. (See
Minute Order dated April 12, 2024.)
 
 
C.      Conclusion
 
The Further RPDs Motion is GRANTED. Plaintiff
shall serve further responses to the RPDs within seven (7) days of the issuance
of this Order.
 
 
III.    
Motion to Compel Deposition
 
A.      Legal
Standard
 
“If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or
employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party
under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section
2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce
for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move
for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (a).)
 
“If a motion under subdivision (a)
is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition
and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated,
unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g).)
 
B.      Discussion
 
Plaintiff moves the Court to order the
deposition of Dr. Gary Godorov. (Motion to Compel Deposition, p. 4:21.)
 
Defendant opposes the motion, arguing: (1)
that Plaintiff did not obtain leave of Court to take the deposition of Dr.
Godorov and there was no agreement to produce him after the discovery cut-off
date; and (2) that Plaintiff’s request to depose Dr. Godorov is barred by judicial
estoppel. (Opposition, p. 3:3–4, 3:17–18.)
 
The Court disagrees with Defendant’s
arguments. 
 
“Judicial estoppel is an
equitable doctrine that applies when ‘(1) the same party has taken two
positions; (2) the positions were taken in judicial or quasi-judicial
administrative proceedings; (3) the party was successful in asserting the first
position (i.e., the tribunal adopted the position or accepted it as true); (4)
the two positions are totally inconsistent; and (5) the first position was not
taken as a result of ignorance, fraud, or mistake.’ The application of judicial
estoppel, even when all necessary elements are present, is discretionary.” (Brown
v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 824, 842, quoting Aguilar v.
Lerner (2004) 32 Cal.4th 974, 986–987, also citing MW Erectors, Inc. v.
Niederhauser Ornamental & Metal Works Co., Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 412,
422.) 
 
        It is not clear that
judicial estoppel applies here. But even if it did, the Court would not
exercise its discretion to apply it in this matter. Defendant has itself
requested (and obtained) additional discovery past the discovery cut-off date;
there is no reason why the Court should preclude Plaintiff from obtaining
additional discovery when Defendant has done so. To the extent Plaintiff
requires leave of Court to depose Dr. Godorov, Plaintiff shall have that leave.

 
 
C.      Conclusion
 
The Motion to Compel Deposition is GRANTED.
Dr. Godorov shall be made available for a deposition within seven (7) days of
the issuance of this Order. 
 