 Case Number:  22STCV21828    Hearing Date:   April 15, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion to Set Aside and/or Vacate
Judgment 
 
Moving Party: Defendant
Mohamed Aboselim, in propria persona
Resp. Party:    Plaintiff Rafik Belferoum 
                                      
 
The Motion to Set Aside and/or Vacate Judgment is DENIED as untimely. 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On July 6, 2022,
Plaintiff Rafik Belferoum filed his Complaint against Defendant Mohamed
Elshahat Aboselim on causes of action for breach of contract, breach of
fiduciary duty, conversion, money had and received, and unjust enrichment. 
 
On September 5, 2023,
the Court held a non-jury trial in this matter. Plaintiff appeared at trial and
Defendant did not appear at trial. The Court considered the evidence submitted
by Plaintiff. The Court found in favor of Plaintiff and against Defendant in
the amount of $36,024.66. 
 
On September 7, 2023,
Plaintiff filed his Judicial Council Form MC-010, Memorandum of Costs
(Summary). 
 
On October 18, 2023,
the Court entered Judgment in this matter. 
 
On October 19, 2023,
the Clerk’s Office mailed Notice of Entry of Judgment in this matter pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 664.5.
 
On December 21, 2023,
Defendant, who is litigating this matter in propria persona, filed his
Motion to Set Aside and/or Vacate Judgment (“Motion”). 
 
On March 27, 2024,
Plaintiff filed his Opposition to the Motion. Plaintiff concurrently filed his
Objections to the declaration and exhibits attached to Defendant’s Motion. 
 
No reply or other
response has been filed to the Motion. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.         
Evidentiary
Objections
 
Plaintiff objects to the entirety of Defendant’s declaration and
exhibits. 
 
The Court OVERRULES the objections. 
 
 
II.      
Legal Standard
 
“A judgment or
decree, when based upon a decision by the court, or the special verdict of a
jury, may, upon motion of the party aggrieved, be set aside and vacated by the same
court, and another and different judgment entered, for either of the following
causes, materially affecting the substantial rights of the party and entitling
the party to a different judgment:
 
“1. Incorrect or erroneous legal basis
for the decision, not consistent with or not supported by the facts; and in
such case when the judgment is set aside, the statement of decision shall be
amended and corrected.
 
“2. A judgment or decree not consistent
with or not supported by the special verdict.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
663.)
 
“A party intending to
make a motion to set aside and vacate a judgment, as described in Section 663,
shall file with the clerk and serve upon the adverse party a notice of his or
her intention, designating the grounds upon which the motion will be made, and
specifying the particulars in which the legal basis for the decision is not
consistent with or supported by the facts, or in which the judgment or decree
is not consistent with the special verdict, either:
 
“(1) After the decision is rendered and
before the entry of judgment.
 
“(2) Within 15 days of the date of
mailing of notice of entry of judgment by the clerk of the court pursuant to
Section 664.5, or service upon him or her by any party of written notice of
entry of judgment, or within 180 days after the entry of judgment, whichever is
earliest.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
663a, subd. (a).)
 
“Except as
otherwise provided in Section 12a, the power of the court to rule on a motion
to set aside and vacate a judgment shall expire 75 days from the mailing of
notice of entry of judgment by the clerk of the court pursuant to Section
664.5, or 75 days after service upon the moving party by any party of written
notice of entry of the judgment, whichever is earlier, or if that notice has
not been given, 75 days after the filing of the first notice of intention to
move to set aside and vacate the judgment. If that motion is not determined
within the 75-day period, or within that period as extended, the effect shall
be a denial of the motion without further order of the court. A motion to set
aside and vacate a judgment is not determined within the meaning of this
section until an order ruling on the motion is entered in the permanent minutes
of the court, or signed by the judge and filed with the clerk. The entry of an
order to set aside and vacate the judgment in the permanent minutes of the
court shall constitute a determination of the motion even though that minute
order, as entered, expressly directs that a written order be prepared, signed,
and filed. The minute entry shall, in all cases, show the date on which the
order is entered in the permanent minutes, but failure to comply with this
direction shall not impair the validity or effectiveness of the order.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 663a, subd. (b).)
 
III.    
Discussion
 
Defendant, who is litigating this matter in propria persona,
moves the Court to set aside and/or vacate judgment on the bases of: (1) fraud;
and (2) abuse of process. (Motion, pp. 1:24–2:5.)
 
Defendant argues: (1) that Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s Counsel committed
fraud on the Court; and (2) that Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s Counsel brought this
claim as an abuse of process for extortion. (Motion, pp. 4:26–5:3, 6:1–3.)
 
Plaintiff disagrees, arguing: (1) Defendant’s arguments are without a
legal or factual basis; (2) Plaintiff did not commit fraud or extortion; and
(3) the case law cited by Defendant is not applicable or relevant. (Opposition,
pp. 4:11, 5:1, 6:13.)
 
As a preliminary matter, the Motion is untimely. For a motion to set
aside and vacate judgment to be timely, the moving party must file with the
clerk and serve upon the adverse party notice of the grounds for the motion
either: 
 
“(1) After the decision is rendered and
before the entry of judgment.
 
“(2) Within 15 days of the date of
mailing of notice of entry of judgment by the clerk of the court pursuant to
Section 664.5, or service upon him or her by any party of written notice of
entry of judgment, or within 180 days after the entry of judgment, whichever is
earliest.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
663a, subd. (a).)
 
The Motion was filed
on December 21, 2023, which was: (a) after Judgment was entered on October 18,
2023; and (b) more than fifteen days after Notice of Entry of Judgment in this
matter pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 664.5 on October 19, 2023.
Thus, the Motion was untimely. 
 
The Motion is
untimely for another reason. Even if the Motion was filed within the time
periods allowed by Code of Civil Procedure section 663a, subdivision (a), the
Motion must still be heard “75 days from the mailing of notice of entry of judgment by
the clerk of the court pursuant to Section 664.5, or 75 days after service upon
the moving party by any party of written notice of entry of the judgment,
whichever is earlier, or if that notice has not been given, 75 days after the
filing of the first notice of intention to move to set aside and vacate the
judgment.” Because the Motion is being heard on April 15, 2024 — far longer
than 75 days from Clerk’s Office’s mailing of Notice of Entry of the Judgment
October 19, 2023 — the Court further lacks jurisdiction and must deny the
Motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 663a, subd. (b); Garibotti v. Hinkle (2015)
243 Cal.App.4th 470, 474.)
 
Because the Motion is
untimely, the Court lacks jurisdiction to reach the merits of the Motion.
 
Accordingly, the
Court DENIES as untimely the Motion to Set Aside and/or Vacate Judgment.
 
However, even if the
Court had reached the merits of the Motion, Defendant’s motion would be denied.
 
        Defendant
chose not to attend trial, despite both the Court and Plaintiff having made him
aware of the trial date. Thus, Defendant waived his arguments about fraud and
abuse of process. 
 
        Moreover,
even if Defendant had not waived his arguments, the evidence submitted in
connection with his Motion is insufficient for him to show that there was any
fraud or abuse of process that occurred. Thus, the Court would still be
required to deny his Motion. 
 
IV.     
Conclusion
 
The Motion to Set Aside and/or Vacate Judgment is DENIED as untimely. 
 