 Case Number:  3STCV15454    Hearing Date:   April 15, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion to Quash Service 
 
Moving Party: Specially-Appearing
Defendant Hay Tanning
Resp. Party:    None
 
SUBJECT:        Motion to Dismiss 
 
Moving Party: Specially-Appearing
Defendant Hay Tanning
Resp. Party:    Plaintiff Benita Elliott
 
        
The Second Motion to Quash is GRANTED. The Proof of Service of Summons
is QUASHED. 
 
The Motion to Dismiss is DENIED without prejudice. 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On July 3, 2023,
Plaintiff Benita Elliott her Complaint against Defendant Hay Tanning on a cause
of action for harassment. 
 
On September 14,
2023, the Court: (1) granted Specially-Appearing Defendant’s motion to quash
service; and (2) quashed Plaintiff’s service of summons. 
 
On March 11, 2024,
Plaintiff filed Judicial Council Form POS-010, Proof of Service of Summons. 
 
On March 21, 2024,
Specially-Appearing Defendant filed his Motion to Quash Service (“Second Motion
to Quash”). In support of his Second Motion to Quash, Specially-Appearing
Defendant concurrently filed: (1) Exhibits to Motion to Quash; (2) Proposed
Order; and (3) Proof of Service. 
 
On March 21, 2024,
Specially-Appearing Defendant also filed his Motion to Dismiss. In support of
his Motion to Dismiss, Specially-Appearing Defendant concurrently filed: (1)
Exhibits to Motion to Dismiss; (2) Declaration of Hay Krisster Tanning; (3)
Proposed Order; and (4) Proof of Service. 
 
On April 9, 2024,
Plaintiff filed her Opposition to the Motion to Dismiss.
 
No opposition or
other response was filed to the Second Motion to Quash. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Second Motion to
Quash
 
A.      Legal Standard
 
“A summons may be
served by personal delivery of a copy of the summons and of the complaint to
the person to be served. Service of a summons in this manner is deemed complete
at the time of such delivery. The date upon which personal delivery is made
shall be entered on or affixed to the face of the copy of the summons at the
time of its delivery. However, service of a summons without such date shall be
valid and effective.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.10.)
 
“In lieu of
personal delivery of a copy of the summons and complaint to the person to be
served as specified in Section 416.10, 416.20, 416.30, 416.40, or 416.50, a
summons may be served by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint during
usual office hours in his or her office or, if no physical address is known, at
his or her usual mailing address, other than a United States Postal Service
post office box, with the person who is apparently in charge thereof, and by
thereafter mailing a copy of the summons and complaint by first-class mail,
postage prepaid to the person to be served at the place where a copy of the
summons and complaint were left. When service is effected by leaving a copy of
the summons and complaint at a mailing address, it shall be left with a person
at least 18 years of age, who shall be informed of the contents thereof. Service
of a summons in this manner is deemed complete on the 10th day after the
mailing.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.20, subd. (a).)
 
“If a copy of the
summons and complaint cannot with reasonable diligence be personally delivered
to the person to be served, as specified in Section 416.60, 416.70, 416.80, or
416.90, a summons may be served by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint
at the person’s dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual place of business,
or usual mailing address other than a United States Postal Service post office
box, in the presence of a competent member of the household or a person
apparently in charge of his or her office, place of business, or usual mailing
address other than a United States Postal Service post office box, at least 18
years of age, who shall be informed of the contents thereof, and by thereafter
mailing a copy of the summons and of the complaint by first-class mail, postage
prepaid to the person to be served at the place where a copy of the summons and
complaint were left. Service of a summons in this manner is deemed complete on
the 10th day after the mailing.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.20, subd. (b).)
 
“A summons may be
served by mail as provided in this section. A copy of the summons and of the
complaint shall be mailed (by first-class mail or airmail, postage prepaid) to
the person to be served, together with two copies of the notice and
acknowledgment provided for in subdivision (b) and a return envelope, postage
prepaid, addressed to the sender.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.30, subd. (a).)
 
“Service of a
summons pursuant to this section is deemed complete on the date a written
acknowledgement of receipt of summons is executed, if such acknowledgement
thereafter is returned to the sender.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.30, subd. (c).)
 
“A summons may be
served on a person outside this state in any manner provided by this article or
by sending a copy of the summons and of the complaint to the person to be
served by first-class mail, postage prepaid, requiring a return receipt.
Service of a summons by this form of mail is deemed complete on the 10th day
after such mailing.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.40.)
 
“A defendant, on or before the last day
of his or her time to plead or within any further time that the court may for
good cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion for one or more of the
following purposes: (1) To quash service of summons on the ground of lack of
jurisdiction of the court over him or her.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
418.10, subd. (a)(1).)
 
B.      Discussion
 
On March 11, 2024,
Plaintiff filed Judicial Council Form POS-010, Proof of Service of Summons.
Declarant Marcel Farmer, who is not a registered California process server,
declares that substitute service occurred on January 30, 2024 at 4:30. But
there is no information as to who accepted service, nor is there a declaration
of diligence attached to the Proof of Service of Summons. 
 
        Specially-Appearing
Defendant moves the Court to quash this service of summons, arguing that it is
not valid, and that Plaintiff has not met her burden here. (Second Motion to
Quash, pp. 4:6–7, 5:8–9.)
 
        Plaintiff
has not opposed or otherwise responded to the Second Motion to Quash. 
 
        The
Court agrees with Specially-Appearing Defendant. The Proof of Service of
Summons filed on January 30, 2024 is defective, and Plaintiff has not met her
burden to demonstrate that Specially-Appearing Defendant has been properly served.

 
The Court GRANTS the
Motion and QUASHES the proof of service of summons on Specially-Appearing
Defendant Hay Tanning. 
 
C.      Conclusion
 
The Second Motion to Quash is GRANTED. The Proof of Service of Summons
is QUASHED. 
 
II.      
Motion to Dismiss
 
A.      Legal Standard
 
“The court may in
its discretion dismiss an action for delay in prosecution pursuant to this
article on its own motion or on motion of the defendant if to do so appears to
the court appropriate under the circumstances of the case.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
583.410, subd. (a).)
 
“Dismissal shall
be pursuant to the procedure and in accordance with the criteria prescribed by
rules adopted by the Judicial Council.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 583.410, subd.
(b).)
 
“The court may not
dismiss an action pursuant to this article for delay in prosecution except
after one of the following conditions has occurred:
 
“(1) Service is not made within two years
after the action is commenced against the defendant.
 
“(2) The action is not brought to trial
within the following times:
 
“(A) Three years after the action is commenced
against the defendant unless otherwise prescribed by rule under subparagraph
(B).
 
“(B) Two years after the action is commenced
against the defendant if the Judicial Council by rule adopted pursuant to
Section 583.410 so prescribes for the court because of the condition of the
court calendar or for other reasons affecting the conduct of litigation or the
administration of justice.
 
“(3) A new trial is granted and the action is
not again brought to trial within the following times:
 
“(A) If a trial is commenced but no judgment
is entered because of a mistrial or because a jury is unable to reach a
decision, within two years after the order of the court declaring the mistrial
or the disagreement of the jury is entered. 
 
“(B) If after judgment a new trial is granted
and no appeal is taken, within two years after the order granting the new trial
is entered.
 
“(C) If on appeal an order granting a new
trial is affirmed or a judgment is reversed and the action remanded for a new
trial, within two years after the remittitur is filed by the clerk of the trial
court.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
583.420, subd. (a).)
 
“The complaint must be served on all named defendants and
proofs of service on those defendants must be filed with the court within 60
days after the filing of the complaint. When the complaint is amended to add a
defendant, the added defendant must be served and proof of service must be
filed within 30 days after the filing of the amended complaint.” (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.110(b).)
 
        “California courts have inherent power to dismiss
civil cases for unreasonable, inexcusable delay in prosecution.” (Slesinger
v. Walt Disney Co. (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 736, 758, citations omitted.)
 
“However, in
imposing the ultimate sanction of dismissal, judges are required to consider
the history of the conduct of the case.” (Tliche v. Van Quathem (1998)
66 Cal.App.4th 1054, 1061.)
 
B.      Discussion
 
Specially-Appearing Defendant moves the Court to dismiss the Complaint,
citing California Rules of Court, rule 3.110(b). (Motion to Dismiss, p. 4:10.)
 
Plaintiff, who is litigating this matter in propria persona,
opposes the Motion to Dismiss. Plaintiff makes various arguments that appear to
address the merits of the matter. However, Plaintiff does not make any
arguments that explain why Defendant has not yet been properly served in this
matter. 
 
The Court previously warned Plaintiff that “[i]f Plaintiff failures to
serve Defendant(s) by the above-mentioned hearing date [of February 1, 2024],
the Court will consider dismissing the case.” (Minute Order dated November 1,
2023, p. 1.)
 
However, the Court recognizes
that a pro per litigant may find that “interrogatories, requests for
admissions, law and motion proceedings, and the like” are “baffling devices.” (Bruno
v. Super. Ct. (1990) 219 Cal.App.3d 1359, 1363, quoting Burley v. Stein
(1974) 40 Cal.App.3d 752, 755, fn. 3.) In addition, “[p]roviding access
to justice for self-represented litigants is a priority for California
courts.”¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 10.960(b).)
 
The Court’s own records also show
that Plaintiff Elliott has filed numerous other actions against Defendant
Tanning.  Ms. Elliott filed six requests
for restraining orders against at least three different people; five of the six
were dismissed for lack of prosecution; one TRO was granted (although not against
Defendant Tanning).  Plaintiff Elliott
also file another complaint against Defendant Tanning that was dismissed by the
Court approximately two months before this case was filed.
 
The Court will give Plaintiff one more opportunity to properly serve
Defendant in this matter. If Plaintiff has not properly served Defendant prior
to the continued Case Management Conference, the Court will dismiss the case.
 
C.      Conclusion
 
The Motion to Dismiss is DENIED without prejudice. 
 
The Case Management Conference (CMC) is continued to July 15, 2024 at
8:30 a.m.  All parties are to file a new,
timely Case Management Statement prior to next CMC. 
 
 
 