 Case Number:  23SMCV00053    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December 13, 2023




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV00053




MOTION


Motion to Substitute Estate of Deceased Plaintiff Abraham
  Macias




MOVING PARTY


Attorney for Deceased Plaintiff Abraham Macias




OPPOSING PARTY


None



 
MOTION
 
            Plaintiff Abraham Macias (“Decedent”)
sued Defendant Ralphs Grocery Company, The Kroger Co. and John Doe for (1)
assault; (2) battery; (3) intentional infliction of emotional distress; (4)
negligence; and (5) negligent hiring, supervision and retention stemming from
an attack in the restroom of a Ralphs grocery store.  
 
            Decedent passed away on May 6,
2023.  Counsel for Decedent now brings
the instant motion to substitute Decedent’s son, Charan Macias, to maintain
this action as successor in interest to Decedent’s estate.  The Motion is unopposed.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section
377.21 provides: “A pending action or proceeding does not abate by the death of
a party if the cause of action survives.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 377.21.) 
“Except as otherwise provided by statute, a cause of action for or
against a person is not lost by reason of the person’s death, but survives
subject to the applicable limitations period.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 377.20, subd. (a).) 

 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 377.31, “On motion after the
death of a person who commenced an action or proceeding, the court shall allow
a pending action or proceeding that does not abate to be continued by the
decedent’s personal representative or, if none, by the decedent’s successor in
interest.”  Section 377.32, subd. (a)
provides:
 
(a) The person who seeks to commence an action or
proceeding or to continue a pending action or proceeding as the decedent's
successor in interest under this article, shall execute and file an affidavit
or a declaration under penalty of perjury under the laws of this state stating
all of the following:
 
(1) The decedent's name.
(2) The date and place of the decedent's death.
(3) “No proceeding is now pending in California
for administration of the decedent's estate.”
(4) If the decedent's estate was administered, a
copy of the final order showing the distribution of the decedent's cause of
action to the successor in interest.
(5) Either of the following, as appropriate, with
facts in support thereof:
(A) “The affiant or declarant is the decedent's
successor in interest (as defined in Section 377.11 of the California Code of
Civil Procedure) and succeeds to the decedent's interest in the action or
proceeding.”
(B) “The affiant or declarant is authorized to
act on behalf of the decedent's successor in interest (as defined in Section
377.11 of the California Code of Civil Procedure) with respect to the
decedent's interest in the action or proceeding.”
(6) “No other person has a superior right to
commence the action or proceeding or to be substituted for the decedent in the
pending action or proceeding.”
(7) “The affiant or declarant affirms or declares
under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the
foregoing is true and correct.”
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 377.32, subd. (a).)  Section
377.32, subdivision (c) requires that a certified copy of the decedent’s death
certificate be attached to the affidavit or declaration.
 
            Here, Charan Macias has provided a
declaration indicating the following:
 
1.      This
is my "successor in interest" declaration under California Code of
Civil Procedure § 377.32. 
 
2.      My
father Abraham Macias (the "Decedent") died on May 6, 2023, in the
City of Los Angeles, Los Angeles County, California. 
 
3.      A
certified copy of the Decedent's death certificate is attached to this
declaration as Exhibit "A" 
 
4.      No
proceeding is now pending in California for administration of the Decedent's
estate. 
 
5.      I
am the Decedent's successor in interest (as defined in CCP § 377.11) and
succeed to the Decedent's interest in this action or proceeding. 
 
6.      No
other person has a superior right to commence the action or proceeding or to be
substituted for the decedent in the pending action or proceeding. 
 
I Charan Macias, declare under penalty of perjury
under the law of the State of California that the foregoing is true and
correct.
 
(Declaration
of Charan Macias.)  A copy of decedent
Plaintiff’s death certificate is attached to the Macias declaration as Exhibit
A.
 
            Therefore, the Motion complies with
the procedural requirements of Section 377.32.
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Therefore, the Court grants the
unopposed motion to permit Charan Macias to maintain this action as the
successor-in-interest to decedent Plaintiff Abraham Macia’s estate as of December
13, 2023.  
 
            Counsel for Plaintiff shall provide
notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.
 
 
DATED:  December 13, 2023                                                ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 