 Case Number:  22STCV39267    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
CHRIS GRANT, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
CITY OF AZUSA, 
                        Defendant.
  


 
  Case No.:  22STCV39267
  Hearing Date:  February 21, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant’s pitchess motion 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            This employment discrimination
action was initiated on December 19, 2022. On January 10, 2023, Plaintiffs
Chris Grant, Jorge Sandoval, and Bertha Parra filed the operative First Amended
Complaint against Defendant City of Azusa, asserting causes of action for (1)
harassment, (2) discrimination, (3) FEHA retaliation, (4) whistleblower
retaliation, (5) failure to take corrective action, (6) violation of POBR, and
(7) failure to accommodate. 
            Plaintiffs Sandoval and Parra are
Hispanic and allege that they were harassed and discriminated against due to
their race. Parra additionally alleges harassment and discrimination based on
her gender. Grant and Sandoval are also over 40 and disabled. Plaintiffs additionally
allege discrimination and retaliation because they associated with and resisted
the discrimination of Hispanic and female coworkers. 
            On January 23, 2024, Defendant filed
the instant Pitchess motion for the disclosure of Plaintiff Parra’s
personnel records from the Riverside County District Attorney’s Office (RCDA),
her current employer. Plaintiff filed her opposition on February 6, 2024.
Defendant filed its reply on February 13, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD
In general, the personnel records of peace
officers are protected from discovery pursuant to Penal Code section 832.7. The
exclusive means for obtaining these materials is through a Pitchess motion. (County
of Los Angeles v. Superior Court (1990) 219 Cal.App.3d 1605, 1611.) A
Pitchess motion shall (1) identify the proceeding in which discovery or
disclosure is sought, the party seeking discovery or disclosure, the peace or
custodial officer whose records are sought, the governmental agency which has
custody and control of the record, and the time and place at which the motion
for discovery or disclosure shall be heard, (2) describe the type of records or
information sought, and (3) present affidavits showing good cause for the
discovery or disclosure sought. (Evid. Code, § 1043, subd. (b).)
The standard of “good cause” required for
Pitchess disclosure is “relatively relaxed” to “insure the production” for
trial court review of “all potentially relevant documents.” (People v.
Gaines (2009) 46 Cal.4th 172, 179.) Good cause for discovery exists when
the party shows (1) materiality to the subject matter of the pending litigation
and (2) a reasonable belief that the agency has the type of information sought.
(Becerrada v. Superior Court (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 409, 413.) A
sufficient threshold showing is established if the party seeking records
demonstrates through affidavits a “plausible factual foundation” for how the
records are material to the subject matter of the pending litigation. (Riske
v. Superior Court (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 647, 655.)
If the trial court finds good cause for
the discovery, it reviews the pertinent documents in chambers and discloses
only that information falling within the statutorily defined standards of
relevance. (Evid. Code, § 1045; Warrick v. Superior Court (2005) 35
Cal.4th 1011, 1027.) 
 
 
DISCUSSION 
Defendant seeks the disclosure of the
following information provided by Plaintiff Parra when applying for her current
position within the RCDA’s Office: (1) her reasons for leaving her employment
with the City of Azusa Police Department (Azusa PD); (2) whether she
received
positive performance reviews, promotions, special assignments, and increases in
compensation
while at the Azusa PD; (3) whether she received discipline, counselling, or
negative
performance reviews at the Azusa PD; (4) whether, and why, she disagreed with
any
discipline
or negative reviews; (5) whether she believed, and why, any discipline,
negative reviews, or other conduct at the Azusa PD was discriminatory or
harassing; (6) whether she was
planning
to sue the City of Azusa; (7) any physical symptoms that she alleges she
experienced
because of working conditions at the Azusa PD; and (8) any documents
showing
what compensation she has received and is currently receiving as an employee of
the
RCDA.

            Defendant argues that this information
is relevant to Plaintiff’s claim that she was forced to quit her employment at
the Azusa PD because of alleged intolerable working conditions. According to
Defendant, “[i]t is reasonable to expect that Parra would have disclosed to the
Riverside DA investigator, at the time of her application and intake
investigation, information relevant to her reasons for leaving the Azusa PD and
statements related to her allegations in this lawsuit.” (Mtn. 9:4-6.) Plaintiff
argues that her subjective views are irrelevant because constructive
termination is assessed objectively. 
            Defendant has sufficiently
articulated good cause to the extent of information about Plaintiff’s prior
employment at Azusa PD, including her reasons for quitting. Plaintiff’s views
regarding her time at Azusa PD are probative to the issue of intolerable
working conditions, even if her subjective opinion may not be dispositive. Information
regarding Plaintiff’s compensation is also relevant to Plaintiff’s claims for
lost wages and future earnings.   
CONCLUSION
            Defendant’s Pitchess motion
is GRANTED as to information regarding Plaintiff’s prior employment at Azusa
PD, including her reasons for leaving, and information pertaining to Plaintiff’s
salary. The Court will conduct an in camera hearing in accordance with
statutory requirements. 