 Case Number:  21STCV09900    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
HOVANNES ARTUNYAN,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
LOS ANGELES DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND
  POWER, et al., 
 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  21STCV09900
  Hearing Date:  February 21, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ motion for summary judgment
  or adjudication 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On March 12, 2021, Plaintiff
Hovannes Artunyan filed this action against Defendants Los Angeles Department
of Water and Power (LADWP), City of Los Angeles (City), and Fenton Williams
(Williams). Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (FAC) on
August 2, 2021, asserting causes of action for (1) discrimination, (2)
harassment, and (3) retaliation. 
            Plaintiff alleges that in August
2018, he was hired by LADWP into its electrical apprentice program but was
subjected to discrimination, harassment, and retaliation by Williams and other
employees, which culminated in his termination in February 2020. Plaintiff
alleges that he was terminated based on Williams’ false claim that he had
cheated during a written examination.  
            On December 8, 2023, Defendants
filed the instant motion for summary judgment or adjudication in the
alternative. Plaintiff filed his opposition on February 7, 2024. Defendants
filed their reply on February 16, 2024.  
 
LEGAL STANDARD
The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure section
437c, subdivision (c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if
all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the
evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there
is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion
for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of
Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v.
Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf v. D. B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Once the defendant has
met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a
defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,
Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
Defendants’
Objections to Plaintiff’s Evidence:

The following objections are
     sustained: 8.
The following objections are
     overruled: 1, 4-6, 13-15.
The remaining objections are
     not pertinent to the Court’s ruling on the motion. (See Code Civ. Proc., §
     437c(q).)  

DISCUSSION
I.
Discrimination
            Government Code section 12940,
subdivision (a) prohibits an employer from discriminating against an employee
based on a protected characteristic. In order to establish a claim of
discrimination, a plaintiff must prove: (1) they are in a protected class; (2)
an adverse employment action was taken against them; (3) at the time of the
adverse action they were satisfactorily performing their jobs; and (4) some
other circumstance suggesting discriminatory motive. (Guz v. Bechtel (2000)
24 Cal. 4th 317, 355.)
Under the McDonnell-Douglas
framework, (1) the plaintiff must initially establish a prima facie case of
discrimination, (2) the defendant must then articulate a legitimate
nonretaliatory explanation for its acts, and (3) in response, the plaintiff
must show that this explanation is pretextual. (Patten v. Grant Joint Union
High School Dist. (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 1378, 1384.) On summary judgment,
the defendant employer must either (1) undermine an element of the plaintiff’s
prima facie case or (2) provide a legitimate nonretaliatory reason for the
adverse employment action. (Cornell v. Berkeley Tennis Club (2017) 18
Cal.App.5th 908, 926.) 
a. Prima Facia Case
For purposes of this motion, Defendants
concede that Plaintiff was in a protected racial class (Armenian) and that
Plaintiff suffered an adverse employment action (termination). However,
Defendants argue that Plaintiff was not competently performing his job and
cannot demonstrate discriminatory motive. 
            1.
Plaintiff’s Competence
Defendants argue that Plaintiff was not
competent at his job because he engaged in conduct consistent with cheating.
Defendants admit that “up until the December 2, 2019 incident, Plaintiff
performed in a satisfactory manner.” (Mtn. 10:17-18.) Defendants contend,
however, that a single instance of cheating is grounds for expulsion under the
standards governing the apprenticeship program. (Def.’s Undisputed Facts (UF)
15-16.) During the investigation, Plaintiff submitted a written statement
admitting that he was looking around during the examination, which created an
impression that he was looking at another trainee’s exam. (UF 26-29.)
Therefore, a majority of the Committee concluded that Plaintiff had cheated and
should be terminated. (UF 30-31, 34.) Defendants argue that the accuracy of
their determination is not at issue because FEHA does not punish employers for
making mistaken or unwise decisions, only unlawful ones. (See Sada v. Robert
F. Kennedy Med. Ctr. (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 138, 155.) 
Because Defendants’ only basis for
challenging Plaintiff’s competence is the cheating incident, a dispute as to
that fact would result in a triable issue over Plaintiff’s competence.
Plaintiff does indeed dispute that he cheated. Plaintiff denies copying anyone
else’s answers on the exam and avers that the other examinee was sitting too
far away for him to see the answers. (Artunyan Decl. ¶¶ 20-21.) Plaintiff felt pressured
to submit the written statement and could not express himself accurately due to
his limited English proficiency. (Id., ¶¶ 29-30.) Because there is a
factual dispute over whether Plaintiff cheated, there is a triable issue over
Plaintiff’s competence. To the extent that Defendant held an honest but
mistaken belief that Plaintiff cheated, that goes to Defendant’s legitimate
justification rather than Plaintiff’s competence.   
                        
 
2. Discriminatory
Motive
             Defendants argue that Plaintiff has nothing
beyond his own speculation to demonstrate that Williams acted out of
discriminatory motive when he accused Plaintiff of cheating. According to
Defendants, Plaintiff has only identified isolated instances where Williams
rejected his suggestions or laughed at him. (UF 44-45.) Defendants further
point out that Williams did not participate in the vote that determined
Plaintiff’s termination, nor did the Committee ask for Williams’ opinion. (UF
32-33.)  
            However, Plaintiff did not testify
that the rejected suggestion or laughing were the only instances of abuse by
Williams, nor did Plaintiff admit that he had no evidence of racial animus. Plaintiff’s
evidence tends to show that Williams did not like immigrants or those who could
not speak English fluently. For example, Cristopher Martinez, another employee
who filed a discrimination complaint against Williams, personally observed
Williams complaining that Plaintiff did not speak English and questioning why
LADWP hired people who could not speak English. (AF 62.) Martinez observed Williams,
an African-American, being more opinionated in his criticism of people of
different races than the same race. (AF 68.) Martinez observed Williams acting
differently around African-American employees and treating African-American
trainees more favorably. (AF 71.) Interpreting the evidence in Plaintiff’s
favor, this raises a triable issue on discriminatory animus. 
            It is not dispositive that Williams
did not vote on Plaintiff’s termination and was not asked for his opinion.
Williams was the one who reported Plaintiff for cheating, thus leading to the
committee vote that ultimately terminated Plaintiff. (UF 25.) Williams’
involvement in the termination process may be sufficient to impute liability to
the employer under the cat’s paw theory. (See Reeves v. Safeway Stores, Inc.
(2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 95, 113.) Additionally, Plaintiff’s evidence shows
that Williams specifically requested Plaintiff’s termination, even if he did
not participate in the vote. (Plntf.’s Resp. to UF 33.) 
            In sum, Plaintiff has sufficiently
raised triable issues as to his prima facie case. 
b. Legitimate Justification 
“Generally in cases involving affirmative
adverse employment actions pretext may be demonstrated by showing the proffered
reason had no basis in fact, the proffered reason did not actually motivate the
discharge, or, the proffered reason was insufficient to motivate discharge.” (Soria
v. Univision Radio Los Angeles, Inc. (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 570, 594, internal
citations omitted.) “[T]he same evidence can be used both to set forth a prima
facie case of discrimination, and to demonstrate the existence of a triable
issue of fact on the issue of pretext.” (DeJung v. Superior Court (2008)
169 Cal.App.4th 533, 554.) Evidence “that the employer significantly deviated
from its ordinary personnel procedures in the aggrieved employee's case, might
well be relevant to support (or negate) an inference of retaliation.” (Kotla
v. Regents of University of California (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 283, 294, fn.
6.)
As discussed above, Defendant argues that
it terminated Plaintiff because a single instance of cheating warrants
termination. However, the Training Facility General Rules did not mandate
automatic termination as a punishment for cheating. (Plntf.’s Resp. to UF 16 [“Cheating
on any written exams, quizzes and assignments may result in immediate
dismissal from the program”].) Instead, Martinez’s practice, when he was in
Williams’ position, was to give a verbal warning. (Ibid.) Examinees
would be “called out” immediately for looking at another’s papers, but not
automatically fired. (Ibid.) This suggests that merely looking at
another employee’s exam papers was normally not sufficient to warrant
discharge. It also suggests that Defendants deviated from their normal practice
of giving a verbal warning for such infractions. Lastly, the evidence discussed
above regarding Williams’ potential racial animus suggests that the true
motivation behind the discharge was discrimination.  
Taken together, the evidence raises a
triable issue on Defendants’ proffered justification. Because there are triable
issues of fact pertaining to Plaintiff’s prima facie case and
Defendants’ proffered reason, summary adjudication is not warranted on the
discrimination claim.
II.
Harassment
a.
Administrative Exhaustion
Defendants argue that Plaintiff failed to
meet the administrative exhaustion requirement as it pertains to his harassment
claim because his DFEH complaint only alleged discrimination. (UF 41.) However,
a civil complaint may encompass allegations that are “like or reasonably
related to” allegations in a DFEH charge. (Okoli v. Lockheed Technical
Operations Co. (1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 1607, 1614-15.) “[W]hat is submitted
to the DFEH must not only be construed liberally in favor of plaintiff, it must
be construed in light of what might be uncovered by a reasonable investigation.”
(Nazir v. United Airlines, Inc. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 243, 268.) Racial
discrimination correlates with harassment based on race. The same set of facts
and evidence can form the basis for both claims. (Roby v. McKesson Corp.
(2009) 47 Cal.4th 686, 707.) In other words, a reasonable investigation into
the DFEH charge alleging racial discrimination would have uncovered evidence of
racial harassment as well. (See Okoli, supra, 36 Cal.App.4th at p. 1615;
Nazir, supra, 178 Cal.App.4th at p. 268.) This is sufficient to meet the
exhaustion requirement. 
b.
Pervasive Conduct
Harassment
focuses on situations in which the social environment of the workplace becomes
intolerable because the harassment communicates an offensive message to the
harassed employee. (Roby v. McKesson Corp. (2009) 47 Cal.4th 686, 706.)
“A single incident of harassing conduct is sufficient to create a triable issue
regarding the existence of a hostile work environment if the harassing conduct
has unreasonably interfered with the plaintiff’s work performance or created an
intimidating, hostile, or offensive working environment.” (Gov. Code, § 12923,
subd. (b).)  
Defendants argue
that Plaintiff cannot demonstrate pervasive conduct arising to the level of
harassment because he only identifies a few isolated incidents unrelated to his
race. However, Plaintiff has testified that instructor Rongzhen Chen questioned
his ability to understand the material and laughed at him at least ten times in
front of the class. (UF 46.) Additionally, supervisor Cesar Sanchez made fun of
Plaintiff’s accent and laughed at the way he spoke on two or three occasions.
(UF 47.) A reasonable trier of fact may find these incidents to be race-related
and sufficiently pervasive to constitute harassment. This precludes summary
adjudication on the harassment claim. 
III. Retaliation
            a. Administrative Exhaustion
            As
with the harassment claim, Defendants argue that Plaintiff failed to exhaust
his administrative remedies because his DFEH complaint only mentioned
discrimination. For the same reasons discussed above, Plaintiff’s retaliation
claim is reasonably related to his discrimination claim. 
            b. Prima Facie Case
            To
establish a prima facie case of FEHA retaliation, Plaintiff must show: (1) he
engaged in a “protected activity”; (2) the employer subjected him to an adverse
employment action; and (3) a causal link existed between the protected activity
and the employer’s action. (Moore v. Regents of University of California
(2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 216, 244.) 
            Defendants
argue that they could not have retaliated against Plaintiff for his protected
activity because Plaintiff filed his government tort claim and DFEH complaint after
his termination. However, the filing of the government claim and DFEH complaint
are not the protected activities forming the basis of the retaliation claim. Rather,
Plaintiff alleges that he complained about “discriminatory conduct, safety
violations, unsafe working conditions, and a hostile work environment” during
his employment. (FAC ¶ 92.) For example, Plaintiff reported instructor Chen’s
harassing conduct to Williams. (Artunyan Decl. ¶ 3.) Defendants do not address
at all the protected activity that Plaintiff engaged in prior to his
termination. Defendants cite no evidence establishing as a matter of law that
the only protected activity Plaintiff engaged in was the filing of the
government claim and DFEH complaint. Therefore, Defendants have failed to carry
their initial burden on summary judgment. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendants’
motion for summary judgment or adjudication is DENIED. Plaintiff’s request for
a continuance under Code of Civil Procedure section 437c(h) is denied as moot.
 