

 
BACKGROUND
 
On February 2, 2023, Plaintiff Old
Republic Surety Company (“Plaintiff”) filed a verified complaint in
interpleader against Defendants Best All, Inc., Ping Dominguez (“Defendant”),
Hsuan-Chien Chang, and Does 1 – 75. 
Defendant was served with the
summons and complaint on February 18, 2023. (Dominguez Decl. para. 4.)
Defendant did not file an answer within thirty days, and, on March 28, 2023, default
was entered against Defendant. (Ibid.)
On September 15, 2023, Defendant
filed the instant motion to set aside default judgment pursuant to California
Code of Civil Procedure §
473 on the grounds that her failure to timely respond to the complaint was the
result of mistake, inadvertence, and excusable neglect. Defendant attached a
verified answer to the complaint as Exhibit A. 
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
A. Legal Standard
 
The discretionary relief
provisions of Code of Civil Procedure section 473 subs. (b) provide, in
part: 
 
The court
may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy
of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the
application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time,
in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or
proceeding was taken. 
 
“Although a trial court has
discretion to vacate the entry of a default or subsequent judgment, this
discretion may be exercised only after the party seeking relief has shown that
there is a proper ground for relief, and that the party has raised that ground
in a procedurally proper manner, within any applicable time limits.” Cruz v.
Fagor America, Inc. (2007) 146 Cal.App.4th 488, 495.) 
 
B. Application
 
Here, the
mandatory relief provisions of CCP § 473(b) do not apply, as Defendant does not
submit an attorney’s sworn declaration attesting to her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect. Instead, the issue is whether the discretionary relief
provisions apply. First, Defendant’s motion is timely as it was filed within
six months of the entry of default. Second, in support of the motion, defendant
submits her own declaration explaining why she failed to timely file an
answer to the complaint.
 
Case law
requires that the mistake must be one that a reasonably prudent person under
the same or similar circumstances’ might have made. (Zamora v. Clayborn
Contracting Group, Inc. (2002) 28 Cal.4th 249, 258.) 
 
Here, the
Court finds that Defendant’s mistake was reasonable. Defendant contends that she
grew up in China and therefore English is not her first language. (Dominguez
Decl. para. 3.) She contends that she does not understand “legal and business
vocabulary in English” and that she only speaks English conversationally. (Ibid.)
Thus, though she received the summons and complaint, Defendant contends that
she did not understand that she needed to respond within a certain time.
(Dominguez Decl. para. 4.) Defendant did not learn that she needed to respond
to the complaint until August, 2023, when she discussed the lawsuit with an
attorney friend. (Ibid.) 
 
Based on
Defendant’s declaration, and the attached answer to the complaint (Motion, Ex.
A), the Court finds that relief from the March 28, 2023 entry of default
against Defendant is merited. Accordingly, Defendant’s motion is GRANTED. 
 
CONCLUSION
            
For the foregoing reasons, Defendant Ping Dominguez’s
motion to set aside the March 28, 2023 entry of default  is GRANTED.  Defendant is ordered to file a separate
noticed answer within 20 days of the Court’s ruling.   Counsel for the Moving Party is ordered to give notice.