 Case Number:  24STCV15574    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  11 Solano (24STCV15574)
 
Tentative Ruling Re: Motion to Compel Arbitration
 
Date:                         1/22/25
Time:                        1:45
pm
Moving Party:          Hawaiian Gardens Casino (“Defendant”)
Opposing Party:       Daisy Solano (“Plaintiff”)
Department:             11
Judge:                       David S. Cunningham III
________________________________________________________________________
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant’s
motion to compel arbitration is granted.
 
The
class claims are stricken.
 
The
representative Private Attorneys General Act (“PAGA”) claim is stayed.
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff used to
work for Defendant.  She alleges that
Defendant subjected her and other current and former employees to numerous
wage-and-hour violations.
 
Here, Defendant
moves to compel arbitration.
 
DISCUSSION
 
Existence and Assent
 
“[W]hen
a petition to compel arbitration is filed and accompanied by prima facie
evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the controversy, the court itself must determine whether the agreement exists
and, if any defense to its enforcement is raised, whether it is enforceable.”  (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin.
Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) 
 
“Under ‘both federal and state law, the threshold
question . . . is whether there is an agreement to arbitrate.’”  (Cruise v. Kroger Co. (2015) 233
Cal.App.4th 390, 396, emphasis in original.)
 
The
burden of proof rests with the petitioner. 
(See Rosenthal, supra, 14 Cal.4th at 413 [requiring the
petitioner to prove the existence of the agreement “by a preponderance of the
evidence”].)  To meet the burden, “the provisions of the written
agreement and the paragraph that provides for arbitration . . . must be stated
verbatim or a copy must be physically or electronically attached to the
petition and incorporated by reference.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330; see also Condee v. Longwood
Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218 [same].)
 
“Competent
evidence is required to establish both the existence of the arbitration
agreement and any ground for denial.” 
(Knight, et al., Cal. Practice Guide: Alternative Dispute Resolution
(The Rutter Group December 2023 Update) ¶ 5:321.)  “The verified petition (and attached copy of
the agreement) normally proves the existence of the arbitration agreement.  Affidavits or declarations may be necessary
when factual issues are tendered.”  
(Ibid.)
 
Plaintiff
worked for Defendant from January 15, 2018 to sometime in March 2024.  (See Fausto Decl., ¶¶ 2, 4.)  As part of Defendant’s policy and practice,
she signed Defendant’s arbitration agreement on June 15, 2020.  (See id. at ¶ 5.)
 
The
arbitration agreement is attached to the declaration of Karen Fausto,
Defendant’s director of human resources, at exhibit A.  It states:
 
AGREEMENT TO ARBITRATE
 
In consideration of or continuance of the at-will
employment relationship between Hawaiian Gardens Casino (the
"Company") and Employee and the mutual desire of the parties to enter
in this Agreement, the Company and Employee hereby agree that any and all
disputes, claims or controversies arising out of or relating to this Agreement,
the employment relationship between the parties, or the termination of the
employment relationship, that are not resolved by their mutual agreement shall
be resolved by final and binding arbitration by a neutral arbitrator. This
Agreement includes any claims the Company may have against Employee, or that
Employee may have against the Company or any of its officers, directors,
employees, agents, parents, subsidiaries, or affiliated entities. 
 
The claims covered by this Agreement include, but are not
limited to, claims for: wrongful termination; breach of express or implied
contract or covenant, breach of any duty owed to Employee by Company or to
Company by Employee; fraud, misrepresentation, defamation, and any other tort
claims; claims for wages, tips, penalties, other compensation or reimbursement
of expenses; claims for discrimination, retaliation or harassment, based on
among other things, race, sex, pregnancy, religion, national origin, ancestry,
age, marital status, physical or mental disability, medical condition, gender
identity or expression, sexual orientation, or any other protected
characteristic; violation of any federal or state constitution, statute,
ordinance or regulation, including but not limited Title VII of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964, Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, Americans
with Disabilities Act, Fair Labor Standards Act, Employee Retirement Income
Security Act, Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act, Family and
Medical Leave Act, California Fair Employment and Housing Act, California
Family Rights Act, California Labor Code, California Civil Code, and the
California Wage Orders, or any other state, federal or local law. 
 
This Agreement shall not apply to any dispute if an
agreement to arbitrate such dispute is prohibited by law. Those disputes
include a claim by the employee: (a) for state Workers' Compensation benefits;
(b) for unemployment insurance benefits filed with the appropriate government entity;
(c) arising under the National Labor Relations Act and filed through a charge
with the National Labor Relations Board; (d) arising under the California
Private Attorneys' General Act ("PAGA") or (e) or any other claims
which are otherwise expressly prohibited by law from being subject to
arbitration under this Agreement. 
 
This Agreement does not preclude the Employee from filing
an administrative charge or complaint with the appropriate government entity if
such filing is protected or required by law. Notwithstanding the unavailability
of class or collective arbitration under this Agreement, nothing in this
Agreement is intended to limit an employee's rights under Section 7 of the
National Labor Relations Act (including any right to engage in concerted
activity such as discussing his/her claims with other employees or filing
similar or coordinated individual claims in arbitration) and Employee will not
experience any retaliation for exercising such rights. 
 
Employees may learn more about their legal rights by
visiting websites hosted by federal and state governmental agencies. Current
links to some of these websites are listed below, although they are subject to
change by the hosting agencies: www.dir.ca.gov; www.dir.ca.gov/dlse;   www.fehc.ca.gov; www.dir.ca.gov/iwc;
www.dol.gov;
www.dol.gov/compliance/laws/comp-flsa.htm; www.dol.gov/dol/topic/wages/index.htm;  and www.eeoc.gov/. 
 
In arbitration, each side in the dispute presents its
case, including evidence, to a neutral third party called an
"arbitrator," rather than to a judge or jury. The arbitrator is
either an attorney or a retired judge. The parties are entitled to be
represented by their own legal counsel in the arbitration proceeding. After
reviewing the evidence and considering the arguments of the parties, the
arbitrator makes a decision and award to resolve the dispute. The arbitrator's
decision is final and binding which means there will be no trial by a judge or
jury, or an appeal of the arbitrator's decision except as provided below.
Arbitration normally is more informal, much speedier and less expensive than a
lawsuit. Because of the large number of cases awaiting trial in many courts, a
dispute normally can be heard much more quickly by an arbitrator than by a
judge or jury. 
 
By signing this Agreement, the parties agree that any
arbitration shall be conducted before one neutral arbitrator selected by the
parties and shall be conducted under the Employment Arbitration Rules of the
Judicial Arbitration and Mediation Service ("JAMS"), Alternative
Dispute Resolution ("ADR") or Signature Resolution Group. Employee
may obtain a copy of the arbitration rules for these services at the following
websites: jamsadrservices.com, adrservices.com or signatureresolution.com. Upon
request, the Company will print a copy of the rules for Employee. 
 
Employee and Company will select an arbitrator by mutual
agreement from one of the arbitrator services listed above. If the Employee and
Company are unable to agree on a mutual arbitrator, either party may elect to
obtain a list of arbitrators from the arbitration service. The Employee and
Company will alternately strike names from the list with the Employee striking
the first name, until only one name remains, who shall be the arbitrator.
 
By signing this Agreement, Employee acknowledges that
he/she has had an opportunity to review the arbitration rules before signing
this Agreement. The arbitration shall take place in Los Angeles County,
California or if the employee lives outside of Los Angeles County, in the
county where the Employee resides. The arbitrator shall have the authority to
order discovery by way of deposition, interrogatory, document production, or
otherwise, as the arbitrator considers necessary to a full and fair exploration
of the issues in dispute, consistent with the expedited nature of arbitration.
The arbitrator is authorized to award any remedy or relief available under
applicable law that the arbitrator deems just and equitable, including any
remedy or relief that would have been available to the parties had the matter
been heard in a court. Nothing in this Agreement shall prohibit or limit the
parties from seeking remedies under California Code of Civil Procedure section
1281.8, including, but not limited to, injunctive relief from a court of
competent jurisdiction. The arbitrator shall have the authority to provide for
the award of attorney's fees and costs if such award is authorized by
applicable law. 
 
The decision of the arbitrator shall be issued as a
written opinion and shall provide the reasons for the award unless the parties
agree otherwise. The arbitrator shall not have the power to commit errors of
law or legal reasoning and the award may be vacated or corrected on appeal to a
court of competent jurisdiction for any such error. The availability of
judicial review shall be governed by the California Arbitration Act, California
Code of Civil Procedure sections 1280, et seq. 
 
Except as otherwise indicated above, this Agreement shall
be enforceable under and subject to the Federal Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C.
Sections 1 et. seq. The parties agree that all disputes arising out of or in
connection with, or in the application of, any of its provisions shall be fully
and finally resolved through arbitration under the administration of Federal
Arbitration, Inc. and in accordance with its Rules for Arbitration, including
its Supplemental Rules on Employment Arbitration. 
 
Employee shall not be required to pay any cost or expense
of the arbitration that he or she would not be required to pay if the matter
had been heard in a court. 
 
BY SIGNING THIS AGREEMENT, THE PARTIES WAIVE THEIR RIGHT
TO HAVE ANY DISPUTE, CLAIM OR CONTROVERSY DECIDED BY A JUDGE OR JURY IN A
COURT. BY SIGNING THIS AGREEMENT, THE PARTIES AGREE THAT EACH MAY BRING CLAIMS
AGAINST THE OTHER ONLY IN THEIR INDIVIDUAL CAPACITIES, AND NOT AS A PLAINTIFF
OR CLASS MEMBER IN ANY PURPORTED CLASS, REPRESENTATIVE OR COLLECTIVE ACTION.
CLAIMS MAY NOT BE ARBITRATED ON A CLASS, REPRESENTATIVE OR COLLECTIVE BASIS.
THE ARBITRATOR CAN DECIDE ONLY YOUR AND THE COMPANY'S INDIVIDUAL CLAIMS. THE
ARBITRATOR CANNOT CONSOLIDATE OR JOIN THE CLAIMS OF OTHER PERSONS OR PARTIES
WHO MAY BE SIMILARLY SITUATED. 
 
If Employee has any questions about this Agreement or
wishes to have any of its terms explained, please direct your question to the
Director of Human Resources. Employee may also wish to consult an attorney
about the pros and cons of this Agreement.
 
The original version of this Agreement is in English. Any
discrepancy or conflicts between the English version and any other language
version will be resolved with reference to and by interpreting the English
version.
 
The Company reserves its rights to amend or modify this
Agreement at any time in its sole and absolute discretion provided that the
Employee is provided with written notice of the same.
 
I ACKNOWLEDGE THAT I HAVE CAREFULLY READ THIS AGREEMENT,
THAT I UNDERSTAND ITS TERMS, AND THAT I HAVE ENTERED INTO THIS AGREEMENT
VOLUNTARILY AND NOT IN RELIANCE ON ANY PROMISES OR REPRESENTATIONS BY THE
COMPANY OTHER THAN THOSE CONTAINED IN THIS AGREEMENT.
 
(Fausto
Decl., Ex. A, pp. 4-7, emphasis in original.)
 
The
Court finds Defendant’s burden satisfied because:
 
*
facts and terms like these suffice to establish an agreement to arbitrate;
 
* it
is undisputed that Plaintiff signed the agreement; and
 
*
assent is uncontested.
 
Federal
Arbitration Act (“FAA”)
 
Plaintiff
concedes that the FAA governs.  (See
Opposition, p. 2.)
 
Unconscionability
and Enforcement
 
Unconscionability
is a contract defense.  (See Torrecillas
v. Fitness International, LLC (2020) 52 Cal.App.5th 485,
492.)  Under the FAA, unconscionability
can be utilized to “invalidate [an] arbitration agreement[].”  (Ibid.) 
Courts apply state law to test whether the agreement is
unconscionable.  (See, e.g., Lagatree
v. Luce, Forward, Hamilton & Scripps (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th
1105, 1119.)
 
“[U]nconscionability
has both a procedural and a substantive element, the former focusing on
oppression or surprise due to unequal bargaining power, the latter on overly
harsh or one-sided results.”  (Armendariz
v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114,
internal quotation marks omitted.)  “The prevailing view is that [procedural and substantive
unconscionability] must both be present in order for a court to exercise its
discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the doctrine of
unconscionability.”  (Ibid.)  “But they need not be present in the same
degree.”  (Ibid.)  “Essentially a sliding scale is invoked which
disregards the regularity of the procedural process of the contract formation,
that creates the terms, in proportion to the greater harshness or
unreasonableness of the substantive terms themselves.”  (Ibid.) 
“In other words, the more substantively oppressive the contract term,
the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion
that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.”  (Ibid.)
 
The
party opposing arbitration bears the burden to prove that the arbitration
agreement is unconscionable.  (See Ajamian
v. CantorCO2e, L.P. (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 771, 795.)
 
Plaintiff
does not argue that Defendant’s agreement is unconscionable or that it does not
cover her causes of action.  (See id. at
pp. 2-8 [merely contending the representative PAGA claim should not be stayed
pending completion of the arbitration].)
 
The
Court finds the agreement enforceable since it expressly applies to all
employment-related claims and disputes. 
(See Fausto Decl., Ex. A, p. 4.)
 
Class
Claims
 
The
Court intends to strike the class claims. 
The agreement states: 
 
. . . BY SIGNING THIS AGREEMENT, THE PARTIES AGREE
THAT EACH MAY BRING CLAIMS AGAINST THE OTHER ONLY IN THEIR INDIVIDUAL
CAPACITIES, AND NOT AS A PLAINTIFF OR CLASS MEMBER IN ANY PURPORTED CLASS,
REPRESENTATIVE OR COLLECTIVE ACTION. CLAIMS MAY NOT BE ARBITRATED ON A CLASS,
REPRESENTATIVE OR COLLECTIVE BASIS. THE ARBITRATOR CAN DECIDE ONLY YOUR AND THE
COMPANY'S INDIVIDUAL CLAIMS. THE ARBITRATOR CANNOT CONSOLIDATE OR JOIN THE
CLAIMS OF OTHER PERSONS OR PARTIES WHO MAY BE SIMILARLY SITUATED.
 
(Id.
at Ex. A, p. 6, emphasis in original.)  Given
that the FAA applies, the class waiver is enforceable.  (See, e.g., Knight, supra, at ¶ 5:49.4c
[discussing AT&T Mobility LLC v. Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333];
see also, e.g., Iskanian v. CLS Transportation Los Angeles, LLC (2014)
59 Cal.4th 348, 359-360 [finding that the FAA preempts “a state’s
refusal to enforce [] a [class] waiver on grounds of public policy or
unconscionability”].) 
 
 
PAGA
 
Defendant contends Plaintiff’s
individual PAGA claim should be arbitrated and the representative PAGA claim
should be stayed.  (See Motion, pp.
15-20; see also Reply, pp. 5-9.)
 
Plaintiff disagrees.  She asserts that the Court has discretion to
deny Defendant’s stay request.  She
claims the relevant factors support denial. 
(See Opposition, pp. 2-7.)
 
Prior to Viking River Cruises,
Inc. v. Moriana (2022) 142 S.Ct. 1906 (“Viking River”), Iskanian
controlled.  “Iskanian’s principal
rule prohibits waivers of ‘representative’ PAGA claims in the first
sense.”  (Viking River, supra, 142
S.Ct. at 1916, underlined case name added.) 
“That is, it prevents parties from waiving representative standing
to bring PAGA claims in a judicial or arbitral forum.”  (Ibid., emphasis in original.)  “But Iskanian also adopted a secondary
rule that invalidates agreements to separately arbitrate or litigate
‘individual PAGA claims for Labor Code violations that an employee suffered,’
on the theory that resolving victim-specific claims in separate arbitrations
does not serve the deterrent purpose of PAGA.” 
(Id. at 1916-1917, underlined case name added; see also, e.g., Knight,
supra, at ¶ 5:49.4m [citing California case law for the proposition that a
“single count under PAGA could not be ‘split into an arbitrable individual
claim and a nonarbitrable representative claim”].)
 
In Viking River, the
plaintiff “executed an agreement to arbitrate any dispute arising out of her
employment.”  (Viking River,
supra, 142 S.Ct. at 1916.)  “The agreement contained a ‘Class Action
Waiver’ providing that in any arbitral proceeding, the parties could not bring
any dispute as a class, collective, or representative PAGA action.”  (Ibid.) 
“It also contained a severability clause specifying that if the waiver
was found invalid, any class, collective, representative, or PAGA action would
presumptively be litigated in court.” 
(Ibid.)  “But under that
severability clause, if any ‘portion’ of the waiver remained valid, it would be
‘enforced in arbitration.’”  (Ibid.)
 
“After leaving her position” with the defendant, the
plaintiff “filed a PAGA action . . . in California court.”  (Ibid.) 
“Her complaint contained a claim that [the defendant] had failed to
provide her with her final wages within 72 hours, as required by” Labor Code
sections 101 and 102.  (Ibid.)  “But the complaint also asserted a wide array
of other code violations allegedly sustained by other . . . employees,
including violations of provisions concerning the minimum wage, overtime, meal
periods, rest periods, timing of pay, and pay statements.”  (Ibid.) 
The defendant “moved to compel arbitration of [the plaintiff’s]
‘individual’ PAGA claim” – i.e., “the claim that arose from the violation she
suffered — and to dismiss her other PAGA claims.”  (Ibid.) 
“The trial court denied that motion, and the California Court of Appeal
affirmed, holding that categorical waivers of PAGA standing are contrary to
state policy and that PAGA claims cannot be split into arbitrable individual
claims and nonarbitrable ‘representative’ claims.”  (Ibid.)
 
The Court of Appeal’s ruling “was dictated by . . . Iskanian.”  (Ibid., underlined case name added.)  “Iskanian’s principal prohibition
required the lower courts to treat the representative-action waiver” in Viking
River “as invalid insofar as it was construed as a wholesale waiver of PAGA
standing.”  (Id. at 1917, underlined case
name added.)  “The agreement's
severability clause, however, allowed enforcement of any ‘portion’ of the
waiver that remained valid, so the agreement still would have permitted arbitration
of [the plaintiff’s] individual PAGA claim even if wholesale enforcement was
impossible.”  (Ibid.)  “But because” Iskanian “prohibits
division of a PAGA action into constituent claims, the state courts refused to
compel arbitration of that claim[.]” 
(Ibid.)
 
The United States Supreme Court
granted review and reversed, holding, eight to one, that the FAA preempts Iskanian
“insofar as it precludes division
of PAGA actions into individual and non-individual claims through an agreement
to arbitrate.”  (Id. at 1924.)  The opinion instructs:  
 
This holding compels reversal in this
case.  The agreement between [the
defendant] and [the plaintiff] purported to waive “representative” PAGA
claims.  Under Iskanian, this
provision was invalid if construed as a wholesale waiver of PAGA claims.  And under our holding, that
aspect of Iskanian is not preempted by the FAA, so the
agreement remains invalid insofar as it is interpreted in that manner.  But the severability clause in the agreement
provides that if the waiver provision is invalid in some respect, any “portion”
of the waiver that remains valid must still be “enforced in arbitration.”  Based on this clause, [the defendant] was
entitled to enforce the agreement insofar as it mandated arbitration of [the
plaintiff’s] individual PAGA claim.  The
lower courts refused to do so based on the rule that PAGA actions cannot be
divided into individual and non-individual claims.  Under our holding,
that rule is preempted, so [the defendant] is entitled to compel arbitration of
[the plaintiff’s] individual claim.
 
(Id. at 1924-1925, underlined case names added.)
 
The opinion continues:
 
The remaining question is what the lower
courts should have done with [the plaintiff’s] non-individual claims.  Under our holding in this case, those claims
may not be dismissed simply because they are “representative.”  Iskanian’s
rule remains valid to that extent.  But
as we see it, PAGA provides no mechanism to enable a court to adjudicate
non-individual PAGA claims once an individual claim has been committed to a
separate proceeding.  Under PAGA's
standing requirement, a plaintiff can maintain non-individual PAGA claims in an
action only by virtue of also maintaining an individual claim in that
action.  [Citation.]  When an employee's own dispute is pared away
from a PAGA action, the employee is no different from a member of the general
public, and PAGA does not allow such persons to maintain suit.  [Citation.] 
As a result, [the plaintiff] lacks statutory standing to continue to
maintain her non-individual claims in court, and the correct course is to
dismiss her remaining claims.
 
(Id. at 1925, underlined case
name added.)
 
Four takeaways stand out:
 
* Iskanian’s prohibition
against waiving representative PAGA claims stands;
 
* Iskanian is preempted to
the extent it bars dividing PAGA claims into individual and representative
claims;
 
* the defendant is allowed to
compel the plaintiff’s individual PAGA claim to arbitration; and
 
* once the plaintiff’s individual
PAGA claim is compelled to arbitration, he or she lacks standing to maintain
the representative PAGA claim. 
 
The High Court’s standing ruling
is nonbinding.  The California Supreme
Court reversed it in Adolph v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th
1104.
 
This is a recurring issue in
numerous cases on the Court’s docket.  Considering
Iskanian, Viking River, and Adolph, the Court’s approach
has been to compel individual PAGA claims to arbitration and to stay
representative PAGA claims until the arbitrations finish.  The Court believes the same should be done
here.[1]
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


