 Case Number:  24STCV16150    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 50
 
            



VENICE VENTURE, LLC, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
STEPHEN
  JAMES BAUMANN, et al. 
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


 24STCV16150 




Hearing Date:


November 14, 2024




Hearing Time:


2:00 p.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
DEFENDANTS’
  SPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT PURSUANT TO CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE SECTION 425.16
 



 
Background
Plaintiff
Venice Venture, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on June 27, 2024 against
Defendants Stephen James Baumann, Sandeep Virk, Arvinder Kaur Virk, Jivana
Café, and Indian Summers, LLC (collectively, “Defendants”). The Complaint
alleges causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2) negligent
misrepresentation, (3) intentional misrepresentation, 
(4) violation of
Business and Professions Code section 17200, and (5)
declaratory relief. 
Defendants
now move for an order striking
certain portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint. The motion is unopposed. 
Request for Judicial
Notice 
The Court denies Defendants’ request for
judicial notice as to Exhibits A and I. The Court grants Defendants’ request
for judicial notice as to Exhibits B, C, D, E, F, G, H, J. 
 
Discussion
A.    Allegations of the Complaint 
In the Complaint,
Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, that “Plaintiff leased the real property
located at 20 Washington Blvd., Venice, CA, 90292 (hereinafter ‘Subject
Property’) to the Defendants on or about December 15, 2019.” (Compl., ¶ 10.) “This
Lease was set to start…on February 1, 2020 to February 1, 2023 but the
Defendants breached the Lease…” (Compl., ¶ 10.) 
“On or about December 1,
2019, [Sandeep Virk]
contacted the Plaintiff’s principal, Mr. Mostafa Karimbeik (the ‘Owner’), to
discuss leasing the Subject Property from the Plaintiff to open the Cafe. [Sandeep Virk] claimed that she and her husband were
experienced restauranters with over ten (10) years’ experience. [Sandeep Virk] asserted that they had a lunch truck
worth $70,000.00 and just needed the right financing to open up the Cafe at a
good location such as the Subject Property.” (Compl., ¶ 18.) These “representations
were made with the intent to induce the Plaintiff into entering into the Lease
which the Defendants never intended to honor.” (Compl., ¶ 19.) 
 “Defendants used the Lease they obtained from
the Plaintiff under false pretense to seek and obtain an EIDL loan during
Covid-19 pandemic.” (Compl., ¶ 20.) “[A]fter the EIDL loan was approved and
paid to the Defendants, the Defendants canceled the Lease, and disappeared as
if the aforementioned loan was never made.” (Compl., ¶ 22.) “Defendants…never
intended to open up the Cafe at the Subject Property and…never intended to
Lease the Subject Property from the Plaintiff to conduct legitimate business at
the Subject Property.” (Compl., ¶ 24.) Defendants “sought an EIDL loan for the
sum of $500,000.00 to open up the Cafe at the Subject Property via the…Lease
under false pretense in order to defraud the Plaintiff and to embezzle the EIDL
loan proceeds.” (Compl., ¶ 23.)
B.    Legal Standard
The anti-SLAPP statute is
“a mechanism through which complaints that arise from the exercise of
free speech rights can be evaluated at an early stage of the litigation process
and resolved expeditiously.” ((Simmons v. Allstate Ins. Co. (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1073 [internal
quotations omitted].) Courts use a two-step process for
determining whether an action is a strategic lawsuit against public
participation, or a SLAPP. First, the court determines whether the defendant
has established that the challenged claim arises from protected speech. ((Equilon Enterprises v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 67.) If such a showing has been made, the court “determines whether the
plaintiff has demonstrated a probability of prevailing on the claim.” (Ibid.)
C.    Prong One – Arising from Protected Activity
“[T]he only thing the
defendant needs to establish to invoke the protection of the SLAPP statute is
that the challenged lawsuit arose from an act on the part of the defendant in
furtherance of her right of petition or free speech.” ((Fox Searchlight Pictures, Inc. v. Paladino (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 294, 307.) An act in furtherance of a person’s right of petition or free
speech includes the following:
 
“(1)
any written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative, executive,
or judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (2)
any written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under
consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any
other official proceeding authorized by law, (3) any written or oral statement
or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum in connection
with an issue of public interest, or (4) any other conduct in furtherance of
the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the constitutional
right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of public
interest.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (e).)
In determining whether a
cause of action arises from protected conduct, the court focuses on “the
allegedly wrongful and injury-producing conduct that provides the foundation
for the claims.” ((Castleman v. Sagaser (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 481, 490-491.) “[T]he critical consideration is whether the cause of action
is based on the defendant’s protected free speech or
petitioning activity.” ((Navellier v. Sletten
(2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 89 (emphasis
in original).) In making this determination, the
Court considers “the pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits stating
the facts upon which the liability or defense is based.” (Ibid.)
Defendants
argue that here, Plaintiff’s “second through fifth causes of action arise from
a protected activity.” (Mot. at p. 7:3.) Defendants assert that their “‘use of
the lease’ to apply for an EIDL loan—i.e., their statements to the SBA to apply
for the loan—is alleged by Plaintiff to support the requisite element of intent
for its misrepresentation claims as well as form the bases of its claims for
declaratory relief and unfair business practices.” (Mot. at p. 8:12-15.) 
In
the second cause of action for negligent misrepresentation, Plaintiff alleges, inter
alia, that “Defendants made the promises and representations about the
Lease, Cafe, and Indian Summers, they did so without any reasonable basis to
believe they were true and with the intent and knowledge that Plaintiff would
rely upon them. Specifically, prior to the entering into the Lease…Mrs. Virk contacted
the Owner of the Plaintiff about leasing the Subject Property and the
Defendants plans to open up the Cafe and/or a restaurant business involving
Indian Summers.” (Compl., ¶ 37.) Plaintiff alleges that that “Mrs. Virk’s
alleged plans for the Cafe were nothing more than clever lies which were
intended to defraud the Plaintiff and its Owner.” (Compl., ¶ 40.) As set forth
above, Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants, and each of them, sought an EIDL
loan for the sum of $500,000.00 to open up the Cafe at the Subject Property via
the enclosed Lease under false pretense in order to defraud the Plaintiff and
to embezzle the EIDL loan proceeds.” (Compl., ¶ 23.)
In
the third cause of action for intentional misrepresentation, Plaintiff alleges,
inter alia, that “Defendants did not have any intent to open
up the Cafe or any business involving Indian Summers at the Subject Property
via the Lease. Instead, the Defendants wanted to procure the Lease from the
Plaintiff in order to obtain an EIDL loan without any intent to actually use
the EIDL loan proceeds to open up the Cafe at the Subject Property.” (Compl., ¶
44.) Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants intentional [sic] misled and
fraudulently induced the Plaintiff into providing the Defendants with the Lease
which the Defendants used to obtain an EIDL loan to supposedly start up the
Cafe at the Subject Property. Instead, as alleged above, the Defendants, and
each of them, usurped, converted and/or embezzled the proceeds from the EIDL
loan and used the same to purchase luxury real estate and other properties.”
(Compl., ¶ 45.) 
In
the fourth cause of action for unfair business practices, Plaintiff alleges, inter
alia, that “Defendants…have acted maliciously and intentionally, as
described herein, to defraud the Plaintiff and the public. These acts and
omissions constitute unlawful or unfair business practices against Plaintiff in
violation of California Business and Professions Code §
17200, et seq.” (Compl., ¶ 52.) As set forth above, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants “sought an EIDL loan for the
sum of $500,000.00 to open up the Cafe at the Subject Property via the…Lease
under false pretense in order to defraud the Plaintiff and to embezzle the EIDL
loan proceeds.” (Compl., ¶ 23.) In the fifth cause of action for declaratory
relief, Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, that “Plaintiff desires a
judicial determination and declaration that Lease of the Subject Property was
misused by the Defendants, and each of them, to obtain an EIDL loan under false
pretense. Therefore, the actions of the Defendants, and each of them, were unconscionable
procedurally and substantively.” (Compl., ¶ 64.)
Defendants
submit the Declaration of Sandeep Virk, who is a member and CEO of Defendant
Indian Summers LLC. (Virk Decl., ¶ 2.) Sandeep Virk states that “[d]ue to the
COVID-19 pandemic, Indian Summers applied online for an EIDL loan in or about
April 2020,” and that “[t]he EIDL loan was not approved by the SBA until
September 2021.” (Virk Decl., ¶¶ 10, 11.) Defendants assert that “[a]pplying
for such economic assistance from the government is certainly a ‘petition;’ the
submission of an official form, such as an application, is a ‘statement…made
before a legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official
proceeding authorized by law’ or ‘made in connection with an issue under
consideration or review’ by such ‘body’ or ‘official proceeding.’” (Mot. at p. 9:10-13,
citing Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subds.
(e)(1)-(2).) 
Exhibit
“F” to Defendants’ request for judicial notice is a March 2020 Press Release
from the U.S. Small Business Administration which provides, inter
alia, “SBA to Provide Disaster Assistance Loans for Small Businesses
Impacted by Coronavirus (COVID-19).” (Defendants’ RJN, Ex. F.) This Press
Release provides, inter alia, that “[t]he
U.S. Small Business Administration is offering designated states and
territories low-interest federal disaster loans for working capital to small
businesses suffering substantial economic injury as a result of the Coronavirus
(COVID-19)…SBA’s Office of Disaster Assistance will coordinate with the state’s
or territory’s Governor to submit the request for Economic Injury Disaster Loan
assistance…Once a declaration is made for designated areas within a state, the
information on the application process for Economic Injury Disaster Loan
assistance will be made available to all affected communities…These loans may
be used to pay fixed debts, payroll, accounts payable and other bills that can’t
be paid because of the disaster’s impact…SBA offers loans with long-term
repayments in order to keep payments affordable, up to a maximum of 30 years.
Terms are determined on a case-by-case basis, based upon each borrower’s
ability to repay.” (Defendants’ RJN, Ex. F.) In addition, the U.S. Small
Business Administration “official website of the United States government”
provides information “about COVID-19 EIDL,” including that “[t]his federal
small business loan program supports small businesses’ recovery from the
COVID-19 disaster’s economic impacts by providing accessible and
borrower-friendly capital.” (Defendants’ RJN, Ex. J.) The website indicates
that “[i]n response to COVID-19, small business owners, including agricultural
businesses, and nonprofit organizations in all U.S. states, Washington D.C.,
and territories were able to apply for the COVID-19 Economic Injury Disaster
Loan (EIDL). New applications are no longer being accepted.” (Defendants’ RJN,
Ex. J.) As discussed, Defendants assert that applying for the SBA’s COVID-19
EIDL loan program is a “protected activity” for purposes of the anti-SLAPP
statute. 
The
Court finds that Defendants have shown that Plaintiff’s second through fifth
causes of action arise from protected activity for purposes of the anti-SLAPP
statute. As discussed above, these causes of action are based on allegations pertaining
to Defendants’ application for an “EIDL loan.” Defendants indicate that “Indian
Summers applied online for an EIDL loan in or about April 2020,” which was “approved
by the SBA [in] September 2021.” (Virk Decl., ¶¶ 10, 11.) As discussed, Defendants
provide evidence that the U.S. Small Business Administration was “to provide [the]
disaster assistance loans for small businesses impacted by Coronavirus
(COVID-19)” pursuant to an “application process.” (Defendants’ RJN, Ex. F.) As set
forth above, protected conduct includes, inter alia, “(1) any
written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative, executive, or
judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (2)
any written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under
consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any
other official proceeding authorized by law…” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subds. (e)(1)-(2).) Moreover, as set forth above, the
instant motion is unopposed. Thus, Plaintiff does not dispute Defendants’
assertion that the second through fifth causes of action of the Complaint arise
from protected activity. 
Based on the foregoing,
the Court finds that the first prong of the two-step anti-SLAPP analysis is
satisfied as to the second through fifth causes of action of the Complaint, and
that the burden now shifts to Plaintiff on prong two¿with respect to these
causes of action.[1] 
D.    Prong Two – Probability of Prevailing
“[P]laintiff must
demonstrate that the complaint is both legally sufficient and supported by a
sufficient prima facie showing of facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the
evidence submitted by the plaintiff is credited.” ((Premier Medical Management
Systems, Inc. v. California Ins. Guarantee Assn. (2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 464, 476 [internal quotations omitted].) In making the prong two determination, “the court shall
consider the pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits
stating the facts upon which the liability or defense is based.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
425.16, subd. (b)(2).) “The court does not, however,
weigh [defendant’s] evidence against the plaintiff’s, in terms of either
credibility or persuasiveness. Rather, the defendant’s evidence is
considered with a view toward whether it defeats the plaintiff’s showing as a
matter of law, such as by establishing a defense or the absence of a necessary
element.” ((1-800
Contacts, Inc. v. Steinberg (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 568, 585.)
Defendants first assert that Plaintiff cannot
prevail on its negligent or intentional misrepresentation claims. Defendants
assert that “[a]ny reliance by Plaintiff on Defendants’ EIDL application as a
basis for misrepresentation or proof of fraudulent ‘intent’ must fail. It is
logically impossible for Defendants to have intended to sign a lease in
December 2019 to fraudulently obtain a COVID related EIDL loan that didn’t
exist until Spring 2020.” (Mot. at p. 10:23-26.)
As set forth above,
Defendants provide evidence of a Press
Release from the U.S. Small Business Administration “[p]ublished on March 16,
2020,” which provides, inter alia, “SBA to Provide Disaster Assistance Loans
for Small Businesses Impacted by Coronavirus (COVID-19).” (Defendants’ RJN, Ex.
F.) As also discussed, Plaintiff
alleges in the Complaint that “[o]n
or about December 1, 2019, [Sandeep Virk] contacted the Plaintiff’s principal,
Mr. Mostafa Karimbeik…to discuss leasing the Subject Property from the
Plaintiff to open the Cafe. [Sandeep Virk] claimed that she and her husband were
experienced restauranters with over ten (10) years’ experience. [Sandeep Virk] asserted that they had a lunch truck
worth $70,000.00 and just needed the right financing to open up the Cafe at a
good location such as the Subject Property. The above-cited express
representations were made during meetings, telephone conversations, and emails
which occurred sometime around December 1, 2019 to December 31, 2019.”
(Compl., ¶ 18, emphasis added.) Plaintiff alleges that these “representations
were made with the intent to induce the Plaintiff into entering into the Lease
which the Defendants never intended to honor.” (Compl., ¶ 19.) As discussed,
Plaintiff further alleges that “[a]s set forth in Paragraphs 18-26 above, the
Defendants did not have any intent to open up the Cafe or any business
involving Indian Summers at the Subject Property via the Lease. Instead, the
Defendants wanted to procure the Lease from the Plaintiff in order to obtain an
EIDL loan without any intent to actually use the EIDL loan proceeds to open up
the Cafe at the Subject Property.” (Compl., ¶ 44.) 
As discussed, Plaintiff
does not oppose the instant motion. Thus, Plaintiff does not dispute
Defendants’ point that “[t]he SBA did not announce the COVID-19 EIDL program
until March 2020,” and that accordingly, “[a]ny reliance by Plaintiff on
Defendants’ EIDL application as a basis for misrepresentation or proof of
fraudulent ‘intent’ must fail.” (Mot. at p. 10:22-24.) 
The Court
notes that “[t]he moving party bears the initial
burden of establishing a prima facie showing the plaintiff’s cause of action
arises from the defendant’s free speech or petition activity…If the defendant
establishes a prima facie case, then the burden shifts to the plaintiff to
establish a probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim, i.e.,
make a prima facie showing of facts which would, if proved at trial, support a
judgment in plaintiff’s favor.” (Kyle v. Carmon (1999) 71 Cal.App.4th 901, 907
[internal quotations and references to [Citation.] omitted, underline added.)
The Court does not find that Plaintiff has met this burden here as to the first
and second causes of action.
            Defendants
also assert that “Plaintiff cannot seek declaratory relief.” (Mot. at p.
12:22.) As discussed above, Plaintiff alleges that it “desires a judicial
determination and declaration that Lease of the Subject Property was misused by
the Defendants, and each of them, to obtain an EIDL loan under false pretense.
Therefore, the actions of the Defendants, and each of them, were unconscionable
procedurally and substantively.” (Compl., ¶ 64.) Defendants note that “the
declaratory procedure operates prospectively, and not merely for the redress of
past wrongs. It serves to set controversies at rest before they lead to
repudiation of obligations, invasion of rights or commission of wrongs; in
short, the remedy is to be used in the interests of preventive justice, to
declare rights rather than execute them.” ((Travers
v. Louden (1967) 254 Cal.App.2d
926, 931.) Defendants assert that here, “[n]o actual controversy
between Plaintiff and Defendants relating to the obligations, invasion of
rights, or the commission of wrongs that may be prospectively resolved by the
court are alleged in the Complaint. Plaintiff only complains about alleged past
actions of Defendants related to their application for an EIDL loan from the
SBA.” (Mot. at p. 13:6-9, emphasis omitted.) Plaintiff does not oppose the
motion and thus does not dispute this point. The Court does not find that
Plaintiff has shown a probability that Plaintiff will prevail on the fifth
cause of action for declaratory relief. 
            Lastly, Defendants
argue that “Plaintiff’s cause of action for unfair business practices also must
fail.” (Mot. at p. 13:16.) In the fourth cause of action for violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200, Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants “have acted maliciously and intentionally, as described
herein, to defraud the Plaintiff and the public.” (Compl., ¶ 52.) Defendants
assert that “[w]ith respect to Plaintiff’s claims concerning a ‘fraudulent’
business practice (applying for an EIDL loan under false pretense of the
Lease), Plaintiff…lacks standing.” (Mot. at p. 14:13-14.) 
“Sections 17200 to
17210 contain what we now refer to as the unfair competition law. The law’s
purpose is to protect both consumers and competitors by promoting fair
competition in commercial markets for goods and services. To that end, the
UCL takes aim at unfair competition, a term it defines to include any unlawful,
unfair or fraudulent business act or practice.” ((California
Medical Assn. v. Aetna Health of California Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 1075, 1085 [internal quotations and citations
omitted].) “Proposition 64 limited the set of eligible private UCL
plaintiffs to those persons who have suffered injury in fact and lost money or
property as a result of the business act or practice at issue.” ((Id. at p.
1086 [internal quotations omitted].) Defendants argue that “[t]he
question here is whether Plaintiff’s alleged unpaid rent constitutes ‘money or
property’ that has been ‘lost … as a result of’ Defendants’ fraudulent business
practice of allegedly obtaining a federal business loan by fraud…Was the rent
unpaid ‘as a result of’ the fraudulent business practice – the fraudulent
application for an EIDL loan? No.” (Mot. at p. 14:20-24.) Indeed, Plaintiff
does not appear to allege that it “lost money or property as a result of”
Defendants’ alleged fraudulent conduct relating to the “EIDL loan.” (California
Medical Assn. v. Aetna Health of California Inc., supra, 14 Cal.5th at p. 1086.)
In addition, as discussed, Plaintiff does not oppose the motion. The Court does
not find that that Plaintiff has shown a probability that it will prevail on
the fourth cause of action for unfair business practices. 
Based on the foregoing, the
Court finds that Plaintiff has failed to establish a probability of prevailing
on its second, third, fourth, and fifth causes of action. 
E.     Attorney’s Fees 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16, subdivision (c)(1),
“[e]xcept as provided in paragraph (2),
in any action subject to subdivision (b), a prevailing defendant on a special
motion to strike shall be entitled to recover that defendant’s attorney’s fees
and costs. If the court finds that a
special motion to strike is frivolous or is solely intended to cause
unnecessary delay, the court shall award costs and reasonable attorney’s fees
to a plaintiff prevailing on the motion, pursuant to Section 128.5.” 

In the motion, Defendants state that they “request
leave to file an application for fees and costs if the motion is granted in
whole or in part.” (Mot. at p. 15:10-11.) Defendants may file a noticed motion
concerning the issue of attorney’s fees and costs.[2]
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Defendants’ special motion to strike is
granted as to the second, third, fourth, and fifth causes of action of the
Complaint. Defendants’ special motion to strike is otherwise denied. Defendants
are ordered to provide notice of this Order.   
 
DATED:  November 14, 2024                       ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


