 Case Number:  21STCV38179    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



ISRAEL RAMIREZ MACIAS,
  
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR COMPANY, INC., et al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


21STCV38179




Hearing Date:


November 14, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE] ORDER
  RE:
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO VACATE ORDER COMPELLING ARBITRATION AND
  REQUESTING SANCTIONS PURSUANT TO C.C.P., §§ 1281.98,
  1281.99
 



            
            Background
Plaintiff Israel Ramirez
Macias (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on October 15, 2021 against Defendant
American Honda Motor Company, Inc. (“Defendant”). The Complaint alleges causes
of action for (1) violation of subdivision (d) of Civil
Code section 1793.2, (2) violation of subdivision (b) of Civil Code section 1793.2, (3) violation of
subdivision (a)(3) of Civil Code section 1793.2, (4)
breach of express warranty, and (5) breach of the implied warranty of
merchantability. 
On June 30, 2022, the
Court issued an Order granting Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration. The
Court ordered, inter alia, that “[t]he entire action is stayed pending
completion of arbitration of Plaintiff’s arbitrable claims.” (June 30, 2022
Order at p. 7:15-16.) 
Plaintiff now moves “for
an order vacating the order compelling arbitration in this matter and awarding
sanctions to Plaintiff in the amount of $73,180.93 for attorney fees and costs
associated with an abandoned arbitration proceeding in this matter.” Defendant
opposes.  
Discussion 
Plaintiff asserts that “[p]ursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure, §§ 1281.98 and 1281.99, Plaintiff
is entitled to an order vacating the stay and order compelling arbitration, and
is further entitled to mandatory sanctions, including an award of attorney fees
and costs.” (Mot. at p. 5:17-19.) Code of Civil
Procedure section 1281.98 provides as follows: 
“(a)
 
(1) In an employment or consumer arbitration that requires,
either expressly or through application of state or federal law or the rules of
the arbitration provider, that the drafting party pay certain fees and costs
during the pendency of an arbitration proceeding, if the fees or costs required
to continue the arbitration proceeding are not paid within 30 days after the
due date, the drafting party is in material breach of the arbitration
agreement, is in default of the arbitration, and waives its right to compel the
employee or consumer to proceed with that arbitration as a result of the
material breach.
 
(2) The arbitration provider shall provide an invoice for any
fees and costs required for the arbitration proceeding to continue to all of
the parties to the arbitration. The invoice shall be provided in its entirety,
shall state the full amount owed and the date that payment is due, and shall be
sent to all parties by the same means on the same day. To avoid delay, absent
an express provision in the arbitration agreement stating the number of days in
which the parties to the arbitration must pay any required fees or costs, the
arbitration provider shall issue all invoices to the parties as due upon
receipt. Any extension of time for the due date shall be agreed upon by all
parties. Once the invoice has been paid, the arbitration provider shall provide
to all parties a document that reflects the date on which the invoice was paid.
 
(b) If the drafting party materially breaches the arbitration
agreement and is in default under subdivision (a), the employee or consumer may
unilaterally elect to do any of the following:
 
(1) Withdraw the claim from arbitration and proceed in a
court of appropriate jurisdiction. If the employee or consumer withdraws the
claim from arbitration and proceeds with an action in a court of appropriate
jurisdiction, the statute of limitations with regard to all claims brought or
that relate back to any claim brought in arbitration shall be tolled as of the
date of the first filing of a claim in any court, arbitration forum, or other
dispute resolution forum.
 
(2) Continue the arbitration proceeding, if the arbitration
provider agrees to continue administering the proceeding, notwithstanding the
drafting party’s failure to pay fees or costs. The neutral arbitrator or
arbitration provider may institute a collection action at the conclusion of the
arbitration proceeding against the drafting party that is in default of the
arbitration for payment of all fees associated with the employment or consumer
arbitration proceeding, including the cost of administering any proceedings
after the default.
 
(3) Petition the court for an order compelling the drafting
party to pay all arbitration fees that the drafting party is obligated to pay
under the arbitration agreement or the rules of the arbitration provider.
 
(4) Pay the drafting party’s fees and proceed with the
arbitration proceeding. As part of the award, the employee or consumer shall
recover all arbitration fees paid on behalf of the drafting party without
regard to any findings on the merits in the underlying arbitration.
 
(c) If the employee or consumer
withdraws the claim from arbitration and proceeds in a court of appropriate
jurisdiction pursuant to paragraph (1) of subdivision (b), both of the
following apply:
 
(1) The employee or consumer may
bring a motion, or a separate action, to recover all attorney’s fees and all
costs associated with the abandoned arbitration proceeding. The recovery of
arbitration fees, interest, and related attorney’s fees shall be without regard
to any findings on the merits in the underlying action or arbitration.
 
(2) The court shall impose
sanctions on the drafting party in accordance with Section
1281.99.
 
(d) If the employee or consumer
continues in arbitration pursuant to paragraphs (2) through (4) of subdivision
(b), inclusive, the arbitrator shall impose appropriate sanctions on the
drafting party, including monetary sanctions, issue sanctions, evidence
sanctions, or terminating sanctions.”  
For purposes of Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.98, “drafting party”
means “the company or business that included a predispute arbitration provision
in a contract with a consumer or employee. The term includes any third party
relying upon, or otherwise subject to the arbitration provision, other than the
employee or consumer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1280, subd.
(e).) In addition, pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 1281.99, subdivision (a), “[t]he court shall impose a
monetary sanction against a drafting party that materially breaches an
arbitration agreement pursuant to subdivision (a) of Section
1281.97 or subdivision (a) of Section 1281.98,
by ordering the drafting party to pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees and costs, incurred by the employee or consumer as a result of
the material breach.” 
Plaintiff asserts that
here, Defendant “breached the arbitration agreement and waived its right to
compel arbitration by failing to timely pay arbitration fees.” (Mot. at p.
6:17-18.) In her supporting declaration, Plaintiff’s counsel states that “[a]rbitration
of this matter…with Judicate West was initiated by [Defendant] on or about
August 18, 2022. The same day, the parties executed the Arbitration Agreement
and submitted their strikes and rankings regarding the presiding arbitrator…On
or about August 25, 2022, Hon. Russell L. Hom, Ret. (‘Hon. Hom’) agreed to
serve as the neutral arbitrator for the matter.” (Kornley Decl., ¶¶ 5-6.) Plaintiff’s
counsel indicates that “[o]n or about April 10, 2024, Judicate West issued
Invoice Number 627347…to [Defendant] for $3,575.00 to serve as a retainer for
the continued services requested of Hon. Hom related to the Arbitration
Proceeding.” (Kornley Decl., ¶ 12.) 
Plaintiff’s counsel states
that “[o]n or about July 10, 2024, Plaintiff contacted the case manager for the
Arbitration, Rebecca Hoefer (‘Ms. Hoefer’), regarding outstanding fees and
discovered through this conversation that defense is delinquent on an invoice
billed on 4/10/2024 in the amount of $3,575.00.” (Kornley Decl., ¶ 15.) Plaintiff’s
counsel indicates that “[o]n or about July 23, 2024, Plaintiff received an
e-mail from Ms. Hoefer regarding the outstanding balances for the Arbitration
and enclosing billing statements. Defendant’s Billing Statement, which was
dated June 7, 2024, contains information regarding the outstanding invoice and
clearly states, ‘Invoices are due upon receipt.’ A true and correct copy of the
Billing Statement is attached hereto as Exhibit ‘A.’” (Kornley Decl., ¶ 17.) 
Plaintiff asserts that “[b]y
failing to timely pay the Invoice, [Defendant] materially breached the
arbitration agreement pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure§ 1281.98, subd. (a). [Defendant’s] breach permits Plaintiff to ‘[w]ithdraw
the claim from arbitration and proceed in a court of appropriate jurisdiction,’
and bring a motion to recover ‘all attorney’s fees and all costs associated
with the abandoned arbitration proceeding.’” (Mot. at p. 7:16-20, citing Code
Civ. Proc., § 1281.98.) 
In the opposition,
Defendant first asserts that “Plaintiff’s reliance on CCP
§§ 1281.98 and 1281.99 are misplaced, as the arbitration provision in the
sales contract makes clear that Plaintiff and Honda agree and acknowledge the
Federal Arbitration Act (‘FAA’) applies.” (Opp’n at p. 2:24-26.) Defendant’s
counsel attaches as Exhibit 1 to his supporting declaration a “copy of the
sales contract executed by Plaintiff at the time he purchased the subject
vehicle.” (Sentlinger Decl., ¶ 2.) Defendant notes that the “Arbitration
Provision” of the sale contract provides, inter alia, that “[a]ny
arbitration under this Arbitration Provision shall be governed by the Federal
Arbitration Act (9 U.S.C. section 1 et. seq.) and
not by any state law concerning arbitration.” (Sentlinger Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. 1, p.
7.)
Defendant cites to Rodriguez v. American Technologies, Inc. (2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1114,
where “American Technologies, Inc. (ATI), appeal[ed] from an order
denying ATI’s motion to compel arbitration and stay judicial proceedings…ATI
contend[ed] federal law governs the arbitration agreement and the trial court
therefore lacked discretion under state arbitration law to deny the motion.”
The Court of Appeal agreed. ((Ibid.) The
Rodriguez Court noted that “the parties to the arbitration provision
here at issue agreed to arbitrate claims arising out of the contract, ‘[p]ursuant
to the Federal Arbitration Act,’ and ‘in accordance with the Construction
Industry Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association.’” ((Id. at p.
1121.) 
The Rodriguez Court
found that “[a]s instructed by Cronus, ‘we examine the
language of the contract to determine whether the parties intended to apply the
FAA to the exclusion of California procedural law.’…The contract specifies that
claims shall be arbitrated ‘pursuant to the FAA.’ In common
understanding, the phrase ‘pursuant to’ means ‘in conformance to or agreement
with’ and ‘according to.’…Plainly, the language of the contract requires the
parties to arbitrate ‘in conformance to’ and ‘agreement with’ the FAA.
There is no other contract provision suggesting the parties
intended to incorporate California arbitration law, nor is there any
language suggesting the parties intended to arbitrate ‘in conformance to’ some
provisions of the FAA but not others. The phrase ‘pursuant to the
FAA’ is broad and unconditional, unlike the Cronus clause,
which deferred to the contract’s California choice-of-law provision by invoking
only ‘applicable’ provisions of the FAA…Thus, there is no ambiguity
regarding the parties’ intent. They adopted the FAA—all of it—to govern
their arbitration.” ((Id. at pp. 1121-1122 [emphasis omitted].)

The Court of Appeal in Rodriguez concluded
that accordingly, “the court erred by denying ATI’s motion to compel
arbitration and stay the court proceeding as to plaintiffs and ATI. In
accordance with the agreement of the parties, section 3
of the FAA required the court to compel arbitration between plaintiffs and ATI
and to stay the court proceeding with respect to their disputes with each
other. While we may question the wisdom of the parties’ choice, and decry the
potential for inefficiency, delay, and conflicting rulings, the parties were
free to choose their arbitration rules. The court will not rewrite their
contract.” (Id. at p. 1122.) 
Defendant asserts that “[h]ere,
the sales contract dictates the FAA applies and Plaintiff agreed at the time he
executed the sales contract. Plaintiff should not now be able to rely on CCP §§ 1281.98 and 1281.99 in an attempt to avoid
arbitration or seek sanctions.” (Mot. at p. 3:9-12.) 
In the reply, Plaintiff
asserts that the FAA does not preempt Code of Civil
Procedure section 1281.98. Plaintiff cites to Espinoza
v. Superior Court (2022) 83
Cal.App.5th 761, 770, where “Plaintiff Rosa M. Quincoza Espinoza
filed claims for discrimination and retaliation against her former employer,
defendant Centinela Skilled Nursing & Wellness Centre West, LLC. The trial
court granted defendant’s motion to stay litigation and compel the parties to
proceed in arbitration. When defendant failed to pay its arbitration fees by a
statutory deadline, plaintiff moved the trial court to lift the stay of
litigation and allow her to proceed in court. The trial court denied the
motion, and plaintiff filed the instant petition for a writ of mandate
directing the trial court to reverse that denial.” 
The Espinoza Court “reject[ed]
defendant’s argument that the FAA preempts section
1281.97,” noting that “[t]he FAA preempts state laws that prohibit or
discourage the formation or enforcement of arbitration agreements, or that
interfere with fundamental attributes of arbitration. As our colleagues in
Division Two recently held in Gallo v. Wood
Ranch USA, Inc. (2022) 81
Cal.App.5th 621 [297 Cal.Rptr.3d 373] (Gallo), section 1281.97 does none of
this. Rather, the statute set forth procedural requirements to ensure
timely payment of arbitration fees, thus ‘further[ing]—rather
than frustrat[ing]—the objectives of the FAA to honor the parties’ intent
to arbitrate and to preserve arbitration as a speedy and effective alternative
forum for resolving disputes.’” (Espinoza v.
Superior Court, supra, 83
Cal.App.5th at page 771
[internal emphasis omitted].) But the Espinoza Court also noted
that in Gallo, the “court…held that section
1281.97 does not interfere with fundamental attributes of arbitration, the
other basis upon which courts have found state laws affecting arbitration
preempted…Because the arbitration agreement at issue in Gallo expressly
incorporated the CAA, applying the CAA’s procedural rules did not ‘interfere
with the FAA’s first goal of honoring the parties’ intent.’” ((Id. at p.
781) Here, Plaintiff does not point to any provision in the subject
sale contract expressly incorporating the CAA. Rather, as set forth above, the
sale contract provides, inter alia, that “[a]ny arbitration under this
Arbitration Provision shall be governed by the Federal Arbitration Act (9 U.S.C. section 1 et. seq.) and not by any state
law concerning arbitration.” (Sentlinger Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. 1, p. 7, emphasis
added.) 
The Espinoza Court also
found as follows: 
 
“We need not, and do not, decide
whether Gallo’s holding depends on the arbitration agreement at
issue incorporating the CAA, because we conclude that requirement is satisfied
here, despite the lack of express incorporation. As this court held in Valencia v. Smyth (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 153
[110 Cal. Rptr. 3d 180] (Valencia), “the procedural provisions
of the CAA apply in California courts by default.” (Id. at
p. 174, italics omitted.)
 
In Valencia, we confronted
whether the arbitration agreement at issue was governed by the procedural
provisions of the CAA or the FAA. As we explained, “parties may ‘expressly designate
that any arbitration proceeding [may] move forward under the FAA’s procedural
provisions rather than under state procedural law.’ [Citation.] Absent such an
express designation, however, the FAA’s procedural provisions do not apply in
state court.” (Valencia, supra, 185 Cal.App.4th
at p. 174; accord, Nixon v. AmeriHome
Mortgage Co., LLC (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th 934, 945 [282 Cal. Rptr. 3d
609]; see Mave Enterprises, Inc. v.
Travelers Indemnity Co. (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 1408, 1429 [162 Cal.
Rptr. 3d 671] [“the procedural provisions of the CAA” apply in California
courts “absent a choice-of-law provision expressly mandating the application of
the procedural law of another jurisdiction”].)
 
Although the arbitration agreement at
issue in the instant case does not expressly incorporate the procedural
provisions of the CAA, it also does not expressly incorporate the procedural
provisions of another jurisdiction. Given the absence of contrary language,
therefore, the parties implicitly consented to application of the CAA’s
procedural provisions, as much as had they expressly incorporated those
provisions into their arbitration agreement. (See Judge
v. Nijjar Realty, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 619, 631 [181 Cal. Rptr.
3d 622] [when arbitration agreement “does not mention the FAA or the CAA,
and … does not include a choice-of-law provision,” California procedural law
applies]; Valencia, supra, 185 Cal.App.4th
at p. 179 [“Assuming the parties failed to incorporate the CAA’s procedural
provisions, that failure was of no consequence: A state’s procedural statutes
automatically apply in state court unless the parties expressly agree
otherwise” (italics omitted)].) Thus, as in Gallo, application of
the provisions does not conflict with the FAA’s goal of honoring the parties’
intent.” ((Espinoza v. Superior Court, supra, at p. 786.) 
Here, by contrast, the arbitration
provision of the sale contract broadly provides that “[a]ny arbitration under
this Arbitration Provision shall be governed by the Federal Arbitration Act (9 U.S.C. section 1 et. seq.) and not by any state law
concerning arbitration.” (Sentlinger Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. 1, p. 7.) Plaintiff does
not appear to address this provision in the reply. As discussed above in Espinoza,
“parties may expressly designate that any arbitration proceeding [may]
move forward under the FAA’s procedural provisions rather than under state
procedural law.” ((Espinoza v. Superior Court, supra, 83 Cal.App.5th at p. 786
(internal quotations and emphasis omitted).) 
Based on the foregoing, the
Court agrees with Defendant that “Plaintiff’s reliance on CCP §§ 1281.98 and 1281.99 are misplaced, as the
arbitration provision in the sales contract makes clear that Plaintiff and
Honda agree and acknowledge the Federal Arbitration Act…applies.” (Opp’n at p.
2:24-26.) In light of the foregoing, the Court denies Plaintiff’s request for
monetary sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.99.[1]

Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to vacate order
compelling arbitration and requesting sanctions is denied.  
///
///
Defendant is
ordered to give notice of this Order. 
 
DATED:  November 14, 2024                                   
________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


