  Case Number:  23STCV22207    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     August 1, 2024                       TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Mohammad Akbari, et al. v. Essex Warner
Center, L.P., et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV22207            
 
MOTION
TO QUASH SUBPOENA FOR BUSINESS RECORDS

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants Essex Warner Center, L.P. and Essex
Management Corporation
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs
Mohammad Akbari, et al. (21 Plaintiffs)
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
09/14/23: Complaint filed.
·        
04/25/24: First Amended Complaint filed.
·        
05/22/24: Second Amended Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a habitability defect action on behalf of 21 Plaintiffs alleging that
the apartment building owned and operated by Defendants in which the Plaintiffs
reside contains extensive deficiencies. Plaintiffs allege that these
deficiencies include widespread leaks, chronic mold, vermin infestations,
physical dilapidation, inadequate sanitation and accumulation of garbage,
inadequate security, and incessant fire alarms. 
 
Defendants move to quash a subpoena
for records propounded to non-party Orkin – United Agent Group, Inc. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Defendants’
Motion to Quash Third-Party Subpoena is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendants move to quash a subpoena
for records propounded to non-party Orkin – United Agent Group, Inc. 
 
Legal Standard
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section
1987.1 provides:
 
If
a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books,
documents, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein,
or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any
person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion after
giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 1987.1(a).) There is
no meet and confer requirement in section 1987.1. There is no requirement for a
showing of good cause for production of documents in connection with a
deposition subpoena. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2020.510(b); Terry v. SLICO
(2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 352, 358.)
 
Analysis
 
Defendants move to quash a subpoena
for records propounded to non-party Orkin – United Agent Group, Inc. Plaintiffs
served a subpoena on Orkin – United Agent Group, Inc. on May 21, 2024, seeking any
documents from January 1, 2014 to the present related to Orkin Services of
California, Inc.’s services at 21201 Kittridge Street, Woodland Hills, CA
90303-5000, the property which is the subject of this dispute. (Defendants’
Exh. A.) Plaintiffs also requested any documents related to Account Number
27344632, and any documents related to the subject property in the custody or
control of Orkin. (Id.) Defendants objected to the subpoena on May 30,
2024, contending that the subpoena was vague and ambiguous, not reasonably
particularized, overbroad, “equally available,” “outside the scope of the
litigation,” seeking information that is irrelevant and not reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, and an
impermissible invasion of the right to privacy of third parties. (Defendants’
Exh. B.) 
 
Defendants contend that the subpoena
is improper because it seeks records concerning Orkin’s services for the
entirety of the subject property, and not merely the eighteen residential units
identified in the operative complaint. (See SAC ¶¶ 7-27.) According to
Defendants, the subpoena invades third-party privacy rights and is overbroad,
unduly burdensome, vague and ambiguous, and seeks irrelevant information.
 
1. Third-Party Privacy
 
In ruling on a privacy objection in the
context of discovery, the party asserting a privacy right must establish a
legally protected privacy interest. (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3
Cal.5th 531, 552.) The party asserting a privacy right must also establish an
objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given circumstances. (Id.)
Further, the party asserting a privacy right must establish a threatened
intrusion that is serious. (Id.) The Court need not proceed to the
fourth step of balancing competing interests if all three of the above are not
satisfied. (Id. at 555.) 
 
If the Court reaches the fourth step, the
Court must balance these competing considerations: The party seeking
information may raise whatever legitimate and important countervailing
interests disclosure may serve. (Id. at 552.) The party seeking
protection may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or
protective measures that would diminish the loss of privacy. (Id.)
Courts may not require the party seeking discovery to demonstrate a “compelling
need” simply because discovery of any facially private information is sought. (Id.
at 556-557.) When a privacy interest is asserted, the party seeking production
must show that the information sought is directly relevant to a cause of action
or a defense. (Harris v. Superior Court (Smets) (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th
661, 665, citing Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 859-62.)
 
Defendants assert that the subpoena
is invading a legally protected privacy interest because it requests all
records pertaining to the subject property, including letters, emails, text
messages, complaints, and requests for service. (See Defendants’ Exh. A.) Defendants
cite no authority standing for the position that the records sought are subject
to any legally protected privacy interest beyond the general right to privacy,
nor do they explain how there is a reasonable expectation of privacy in these
circumstances. Moreover, Defendants do not articulate how the threatened
intrusion from the production of these records is serious. Defendants have
therefore failed to justify their third-party privacy objection. 
 
2. Relevance
 
Defendants also assert that the
subpoena seeks records which are irrelevant or not reasonably calculated to
lead to admissible evidence because it is seeking records related to the entire
property for a 10-year period. This contention is belied by the operative
pleadings and Defendants’ own evidence. As the Second Amended Complaint plainly
states, this action is brought on behalf of various Plaintiffs, some of whom
have been residing on the premises since 2015. (SAC ¶¶ 7-27; Declaration of
Jennifer M. Porche ISO Mot. ¶ 2.) The map of the property produced by
Defendants’ counsel demonstrates that the Plaintiffs’ units are distributed
across the property, rather than being clustered in one location. (Defendants’
Exh. D.) Moreover, the Second Amended Complaint does not merely allege that the
individual units have had vermin infestations, but that the entire property is
infested. (SAC ¶ 42.) The documents sought are therefore facially related to
Plaintiffs’ claims. Defendants have failed to justify their objection on this
basis. 
 
//
 
//
 
3. Overbreadth, Ambiguity, Undue
Burden
 
Defendants also assert that the
subpoena is overbroad, vague and ambiguous, not reasonably particularized, and
unduly burdensome. Defendants’ unsupported assertions are not sufficient to
demonstrate the deficiency of the subpoena in this respect. 
 
            As
Defendants have failed to demonstrate the validity of their objections, their
motion to quash this subpoena must be denied. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion to Quash Third-Party Subpoena is DENIED. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  August 1, 2024                                   ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part. 