 Case Number:  23TRCV02985    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka          Thursday, July 18, 2024
Department M    Calendar No. 17  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Sergio
Miloban Suarez v. Volkswagen Group of America, Inc., et al.    
23TRCV02985
1.     
Timmons of Long
Beach’s Demurrer to Complaint     
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING

Timmons of Long Beach’s Demurrer to Complaint is sustained
with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
Background 
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint on September 11, 2023. Plaintiff
alleges the following facts. Plaintiff alleges that his 2021 Volkswagen Atlas suffers
from electrical, engine, steering, and suspension system defects. Plaintiff sets
forth causes of action under the Song-Beverly Act as well as a fourth cause of
action for Negligent Repair. The fourth cause of action is only alleged against
Timmons of Long Beach which is not named as a Defendant in any other cause of
action. 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Defendant filed a meet and confer declaration in
sufficient compliance with CCP § 430.41. (Decl., Joel Gamino, ¶¶ 3-4.)
 
Demurrer

A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a complaint as a
matter of law and raises only questions of law. (Schmidt v. Foundation Health
(1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.)  In
testing the sufficiency of the complaint, the court must assume the truth of
(1) the properly pleaded factual allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably
inferred from those expressly pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) 
The Court may not consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of
fact or law.  (Moore v. Conliffe
(1994) 7 Cal.App.4th 634, 638.) Because a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of a complaint, the plaintiff must show that the complaint alleges facts
sufficient to establish every element of each cause of action.  (Rakestraw v. California Physicians
Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) 
Where the complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action, courts should sustain the demurrer.  (C.C.P., § 430.10(e); Zelig v. County of
Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1126.)
 
Sufficient facts are the essential facts of the case
"with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficiently specific to
acquaint the defendant with the nature, source, and extent of his cause of
action.”  (Gressley v. Williams
(1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.) 
"Whether the plaintiff will be able to prove the pleaded facts is
irrelevant to ruling upon the demurrer." 
(Stevens v. Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 605,
609–610.)  Under Code Civil Procedure §
430.10(f), a demurrer may also be sustained if a complaint is “uncertain.”  Uncertainty exists where a complaint’s
factual allegations are so confusing they do not sufficiently apprise a
defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp.
(1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)
Fourth Cause of Action for Negligent Repair 
            Defendant’s
demurrer to the fourth cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave to
amend. Plaintiff fails to state facts sufficient to state a cause of action. 
            “To
state a cause of action for negligence, a plaintiff must allege (1) the
defendant owed the plaintiff a duty of care, (2) the defendant breached that
duty, and (3) the breach proximately caused the plaintiff's damages or
injuries.” Lueras v. BAC Home Loans Servicing, LP (2013) 221
Cal.App.4th 49, 62
            “[T]he
economic loss rule provides: [W]here a purchaser's expectations in a sale are
frustrated because the product he bought is not working properly, his remedy is
said to be in contract alone, for he has suffered only ‘economic’ losses. This
doctrine hinges on a distinction drawn between transactions involving the sale
of goods for commercial purposes where economic expectations are protected by
commercial and contract law, and those involving the sale of defective products
to individual consumers who are injured in a manner which has traditionally
been remedied by resort to the law of torts. The economic loss rule requires a
purchaser to recover in contract for purely economic loss due to disappointed
expectations, unless he can demonstrate harm above and beyond a broken
contractual promise. Quite simply, the economic loss rule prevent[s] the law of
contract and the law of tort from dissolving one into the other.” Robinson
Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988 (internal
citations and quotations omitted). “[C]onduct amounting to a breach of contract
becomes tortious only when it also violates a duty independent of the contract
arising from principles of tort law. An omission to perform a contract
obligation is never a tort, unless that omission is also an omission of a legal
duty.” Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543, 551 (internal citations
and quotations omitted
            California
courts have recognized an exception to the economic loss rule where the
contract is for services and not goods. N. Am. Chem. Co. v. Superior Court
(1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 764, 781.  A
negligent failure to perform a contractual duty may support both a breach of
contract and a tort. Id. “[T]he critical issue to be determined before
allowing recovery of an economic loss is the foreseeability of the risk of that
loss flowing from a defendant's negligent conduct. In cases involving the
negligent performance of services, it would seem to matter little whether that
foreseeability is established, at least in part, by a contractual relationship.
It is the foreseeability of the economic loss resulting from the defendant's
conduct, not the plaintiff's inability to contractually anticipate and provide
for such loss, which serves as the foundation for imposition of liability.” Id.
at 784.
            However,
cases decided after N. American Chemical such as, Erlich v. Menezes
(1999) 21 Cal.4th 543 and Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
(2022) 12 Cal.5th 905 appeared to limit the exception noted above to contexts
involving a special relationship between the parties.  Here, no such special relationship has been
pled. 
            In
the opposition, Plaintiff argues that the economic loss rule does not apply to
professional negligence. However, there are no facts or authority to indicate
that negligence pertaining to repairing a vehicle by a car dealership amounts
to professional negligence.
The Court notes that the first
through third causes of action against Volkswagen of America are premised upon
a contractual relationship. However, no such contractual relationship is
alleged in the fourth cause of action which is only alleged against Timmons.   
Thus, Plaintiff has not alleged
facts to demonstrate a duty of care that was owed by Defendant Timmons to
Plaintiff.  If the duty of care was based
on a contractual duty, then, Plaintiff has failed to articulate the existence
of a duty of care stemming from the contract which is separate from a
contractual duty.  However, if a duty of
care existed separate and apart from any contract, then, Plaintiff must allege
facts to demonstrate how such a duty arose.  In this scenario, Plaintiff must articulate a
duty of care owed to them by Defendant that would have been separate and apart from
a contractual duty. 
In addition, Plaintiff has
merely set forth a conclusion with respect to damages as the Complaint does not
allege or reveal that Plaintiff has any economic damages since Plaintiff has
specifically alleged the existence of a warranty.  While negligence generally does not require
specific pleading, here, more than a simple conclusion is warranted since the
first three causes of action appear to demonstrate the existence of a warranty
that may perhaps show that Plaintiff did not suffer economic damages.
            Thus,
Defendant’s demurrer to the fourth cause of action is sustained with 20 days
leave to amend.
            Defendant
is ordered to give notice of this ruling.