 Case Number:  23TRCV03015    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka         Thursday, July 18, 2024
Department M    Calendar No. 18  



 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Stephanie
Gauss v. David De Wispelaere, et al.  
23TRCV03015
1.     
David De
Wispelaere (“Wispelaere”), Annie Maes (“Maes”) and Maes Capital’s Demurrer to First
Amended Complaint  
2.     
David De
Wispelaere (“Wispelaere”), Annie Maes (“Maes”) and Maes Capital’s Motion to
Strike Portions of First Amended Complaint
3.     
David De
Wispelaere (“Wispelaere”), Annie Maes (“Maes”) and Maes Capital’s Motion to
Augment Bond
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
David De Wispelaere (“Wispelaere”), Annie Maes
(“Maes”) and Maes Capital’s Demurrer to First Amended Complaint is sustained
with 20 days leave to amend, sustained without leave to amend, in part, and
overruled, in part.
 
David De Wispelaere (“Wispelaere”), Annie Maes
(“Maes”) and Maes Capital’s Motion to Strike Portions of First Amended
Complaint is deemed moot.
 
David De Wispelaere (“Wispelaere”), Annie Maes
(“Maes”) and Maes Capital’s Motion to Augment Bond is continued to August 26,
2024.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint was filed on September 12, 2023.
Plaintiff alleges the following facts. In September 2020, Plaintiff purchased
real property commonly known as 8301 Wiley Post Ave., Los Angeles, CA 90045
(“8301 Wiley Post”). Plaintiff made a down payment of 25% of the purchasing
price and obtained a loan for the balance with FCI Lender Services, Inc. Plaintiff
decided to build a duplex. Plaintiff obtained a loan from David De Wispelaere
for $1,500,000.00. The duplex has common addresses: 8303 and 8305 Wiley Post
Ave., Los Angeles, CA 90045. As part of the loan, De Wispelaere was to pay off
the existing FCI loan. Unbeknownst to Plaintiff, De Wispelaere changed the
lender from himself to Defendant Annie Maes (“Maes”). The loan amount was also
changed. DeWispelaere and Maes are not licensed to accept consumer loans. During
the loan origination process, Plaintiff was never asked to complete a 1003 Loan
Application or provide a copy of her credit report, or income or asset
verification. Plaintiff alleges that the loan is in violation of federal
lending laws and that the loan charges usurious interest.
 
In the original Complaint, Plaintiff alleged the
following causes of action: 1. Violations of the Truth in Lending Act; 2.
Violations of the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act; 3. Violations of the
Equal Credit Opportunity Act; 4. Usury; 5. Violations of Cal. Business &
Professions Code § 17200, et seq; 6. Financial Abuse of Elder; 7. Injunctive
Relief; 8. Negligence. 
 
On March 14, 2024, Defendants’ demurrer was overruled
in part and sustained with leave to amend in part. On April 9, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed a First Amended Complaint. The FAC included the first six causes of
action, omitted the seventh and eighth causes of action, and added new causes
of action for Breach of Contract, Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith
and Fair Dealing, Fraud, and IIED.
 
Meet and Confer
             
Defendants set forth a meet and confer declaration in
sufficient compliance with CCP § 430.41. 
(Decl. Jacoby Perez.)   
 
Demurrer

A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a complaint as a
matter of law and raises only questions of law. (Schmidt v. Foundation Health
(1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.)  In
testing the sufficiency of the complaint, the court must assume the truth of
(1) the properly pleaded factual allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably
inferred from those expressly pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) 
The Court may not consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of
fact or law.  (Moore v. Conliffe
(1994) 7 Cal.App.4th 634, 638.) Because a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of a complaint, the plaintiff must show that the complaint alleges facts
sufficient to establish every element of each cause of action.  (Rakestraw v. California Physicians
Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) 
Where the complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action, courts should sustain the demurrer.  (C.C.P., § 430.10(e); Zelig v. County of
Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1126.)
 
Sufficient facts are the essential facts of the case
"with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficiently specific to
acquaint the defendant with the nature, source, and extent of his cause of
action.”  (Gressley v. Williams
(1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.) 
"Whether the plaintiff will be able to prove the pleaded facts is
irrelevant to ruling upon the demurrer." 
(Stevens v. Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 605,
609–610.)  Under Code Civil Procedure §
430.10(f), a demurrer may also be sustained if a complaint is “uncertain.”  Uncertainty exists where a complaint’s
factual allegations are so confusing they do not sufficiently apprise a
defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp.
(1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)
 
Defendants demur to the second, third, sixth, and
seventh through tenth causes of action for failure to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. CCP § 430.10(e). 
 
As to the demurrer brought by Defendants David De
Wispelaere and Maes Capital, the demurrer is sustained with 20 days leave to
amend, in part, and without leave to amend, in part. 
 
Plaintiff has not alleged sufficient factual
allegations against these Defendants. The factual allegations are related to
alleged aspects and wrongdoing concerning the subject loan. Plaintiff has
specifically alleged that these demurring Defendants were not the lenders, but
that only Defendant Annie Maes was the lender. 
 
Thus, Defendants David De Wispelaere and Maes Capital’s
demurrer is sustained with 20 days leave to amend as to the second, third,
sixth, and eighth causes of action. The demurrer to the seventh, ninth, and tenth
causes of action is sustained without leave to amend.
 
As to Defendant Annie Maes, the Court makes the
following ruling.
 
Second Cause of Action for Violations of the Real
Estate Settlement Procedures Act (“RESPA”)
 
The demurrer to the second cause of action is sustained
with 20 days leave to amend.  Plaintiff
fails to state facts sufficient to state a cause of action.
 
 Defendants
argue that RESPA applies only to “federally related mortgage loans” as defined
in 12 U.S.C. § 2602. “For purposes of RESPA, a “federally related mortgage
loan” is one involving any loan that is secured by a mortgage on residential
real estate where the proceeds are used to pay an existing loan secured by the
same property and the loan is made by a federally-insured lender or another
agency of the federal government through an housing or urban development
program. 12 U.S.C.A. § 2602(1)(A),(B).” Miller & Starr § 6:15. The Real Estate
Settlement Procedures Act (RESPA), 2 Cal. Real Est. § 6:15 (4th ed.)
 
Here, Plaintiff has not alleged specific facts to
demonstrate that this particular loan would, in fact, qualify as a federally
related loan. Curiously, in Plaintiff’s opposition, Plaintiff refers to
allegations set forth in paragraphs 61 to 63 which are allegations set forth in
the first cause of action, and not the second cause of action. Plaintiff also
states that allegations to support the conclusion of “federally related
mortgage loan” was set forth in paragraph 87. However, that section refers to
TILA not RESPA. “PLAINTIFF is informed and believes, and thereon alleges, that
both the Loan and DEFENDANTS are subject to TILA[. . .]” (FAC, ¶ 87). In any
event, if that was a typographical error, the allegation is made on information
and belief. 
 
“[P]laintiff may allege on information and belief any
matters that are not within his personal knowledge, if he has information
leading him to believe that the allegations are true and thus a pleading made
on information and belief is insufficient if it merely assert[s] the facts so
alleged without alleging such information that lead[s] [the plaintiff] to
believe that the allegations are true.”  Gomes
v. Countrywide Home Loans, Inc. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 1149, 1158–1159
(internal citations and quotations are omitted; emphasis in original.) As to
the allegation made on “information and belief,” Plaintiff has failed to allege
sufficient facts that would support the contention that the belief is true. 
 
Defendant’s demurrer to the second cause of action is
sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Third Cause of Action for Violations of the Equal
Credit Opportunity Act (“ECOA”)
 
The demurrer to the third cause of action is sustained
with 20 days leave to amend. Plaintiff fails to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.
 
The ECOA makes it unlawful “for any creditor to
discriminate against any applicant, with respect to any aspect of a credit
transaction [] on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex or
marital status, or age (provided the applicant has the capacity to contract)”
15 U.S.C. § 1691(a). In the original Complaint, Plaintiff failed to allege any
facts to show that she was discriminated against due to any protected class as
defined in the statute. In the FAC, Plaintiff has now alleged that she “is female,
of Asian ancestry, born in Korea, uses English as a second language, and was
over 62 years of age at the time in question.” (FAC, 92.)  However, Plaintiff alleged no facts that she
was discriminated against due to these protected categories. The allegations
are sheer conclusions without any supporting facts. 
 
Defendant’s demurrer to the third cause of action is
sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Sixth Cause of Action for Financial Abuse of Elder
 
Defendant’s demurrer is sustained with 20 days leave
to amend.  Plaintiff fails to state facts
sufficient to state a cause of action.
 
Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.30 states, in relevant
part: “(a) “Financial abuse” of an elder or dependent adult occurs when a
person or entity does any of the following:
(1) Takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains
real or personal property of an elder or dependent adult for a wrongful use or
with intent to defraud, or both.
(2) Assists in taking, secreting, appropriating,
obtaining, or retaining real or personal property of an elder or dependent
adult for a wrongful use or with intent to defraud, or both.
(3) Takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or
retains, or assists in taking, secreting, appropriating, obtaining, or
retaining, real or personal property of an elder or dependent adult by undue
influence, as defined in Section 15610.70.”
 
Pleading a claim for elder abuse requires specific
facts of intentional or, at a minimum, reckless conduct.  See, Worsham v. O’Connor Hospital
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 331, 338. To state the statutory cause of action for
Financial Elder Abuse, Plaintiff must plead specific facts.  See, Covenant Care v. Superior Court
(2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 790. 
 
Plaintiff has failed to state the requisite specific
facts to state a cause of action.  Plaintiff
attempts to allege an elder abuse cause of action based on financial abuse.
However, there are no facts to show that demurring Defendant herein took,
secreted, appropriated, obtained, or retained real or personal property, or
assisted in doing so.
 
Plaintiff attempts to satisfy the “taking” requirement
by alleging that Defendant withheld loan proceeds, charged interest on loans,
clouded title, and destroyed Plaintiff’s credit. (FAC, ¶¶ 116-118.)  None of these facts demonstrate an actual
taking of Plaintiff’s personal property. 
 
Eighth Cause of Action for Breach of Contract
 
Defendant’s demurrer is sustained with 20 days leave
to amend. Plaintiff fails to state facts sufficient to state a cause of action.
 
The elements of a cause of action for breach of
contract are: (1) the contract, (2) plaintiff's performance or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damages to
plaintiff.” Coles v. Glaser (2016) 2
Cal.App.5th 384, 391(internal quotations omitted). “[T]he complaint must
indicate on its face whether the contract is written, oral, or implied by
conduct. [...] If the action is based on an alleged breach of a written
contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the complaint or a
copy of the written instrument must be attached and incorporated by reference.”
Otworth v. Southern Pac. Transportation Co. (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452,
458–59. Plaintiffs must either: (a) set forth the terms of the contract
verbatim, (b) attach a copy of the contract and incorporate it by reference, or
(c) plead its legal effect.  McKell v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006)
142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489. 
 
First, Plaintiff has failed to specify the contract.
Plaintiff makes reference to the “Agreement” and “Loan Documents.” (FAC, 132.)  The “Agreement” was previously defined as the
loan agreement.  It appears that the
Agreement was attached as Exhibit 2.  It
is unclear what other document or documents that Plaintiff also considers to be
a contract. Plaintiff alleges a series of “breaches,” but it is unclear how
these activities are to be considered a breach of the contract. Again, as to
the loan agreement that was attached as Exhibit 2, none of these allegations
appear to be encompassed within the written agreement. Plaintiff has failed to
allege her own performance or excuse for non-performance.  Plaintiff has failed to allege resulting
damages. 
 
Seventh Cause of Action for Breach of the Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
Ninth Cause of Action for Fraud
Tenth Cause of Action for IIED
 
The demurrer to the seventh, ninth, and tenth causes
of action is sustained without leave to amend.
 
Generally, upon the sustaining of the demurrer, the
scope of leave to amend is to amend the existing causes of action and not to
add new causes of action.  See, People
ex rel. Dept. of Pub. Wks. v. Clausen (1967) 248 Cal.App.2d 770, 785.  Addition of a new cause of action may be
proper, however, when it “directly responds to the court's reason for
sustaining the earlier demurrer.”  Patrick
v. Alacer Corp. (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 995, 1015. The Court notes that
these causes of action for Constructive Fraud and Breach of Fiduciary Duty were
not set forth in the First Amended Complaint. The scope of leave to amend, upon
the sustaining of the demurrer, was not to add new causes of action that were
not previously raised.
 
In the prior demurrer, the Court noted in sustaining
the demurrer to the negligence cause of action that upon amendment Plaintiff
may add a new cause of action for Breach of Contract. However, the seventh,
ninth, and tenth causes of action were not mentioned as causes of action that
could be added in the amended pleading. 
 
Motion to
Strike  
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. 
CCP § 436(a).  The court may also
strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with
the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.  CCP § 436(b). 
The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant,
false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with
laws.  CCP § 436.  The grounds for moving to strike must appear
on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP § 437.
 
Defendants move to strike the following:
 
“1. Paragraphs 123-130 in their entirety, constituting
the seventh cause of action for Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith
and Fair Dealing; 
2. Paragraphs 133-137, in their entirety, constituting
the ninth cause of action for Fraud; 
3. Paragraph 138-143, in their entirety, constituting
the tenth cause of action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; 
4. The prayer for relief pertaining to the seventh
cause of action, located on Page 29, lines 11-15 of the FAC; 
5. The prayer for relief pertaining to the ninth cause
of action for Fraud, located on Page 28, lines 20-25, of the FAC. 
6. The prayer for relief pertaining to the tenth cause
of action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, located on Page 29
of the FAC, lines 26-28, and continuing through lines 1 through 5 of page 30 of
the FAC.”
 
The motion to strike is moot upon the sustaining of
the demurrer without leave to amend as to the seventh, ninth, and tenth causes
of action. 
 
Motion to Augment Bond
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 996.010 states:
“(a) If a bond is given in an action or proceeding,
the court may determine that the bond is or has from any cause become
insufficient because the sureties are insufficient or because the amount of the
bond is insufficient.
(b) The court determination shall be upon motion
supported by affidavit or upon the court's own motion. The motion shall be
deemed to be an objection to the bond. The motion shall be heard and notice of
motion shall be given in the same manner as an objection to the bond.
(c) Upon the determination the court shall order that
a sufficient new, additional, or supplemental bond be given within a reasonable
time not less than five days. The court order is subject to any limitations in
the statute providing for the bond.
(d) If a sufficient bond is not given within the time
required by the court order, all rights obtained by giving the original bond
immediately cease and the court shall upon ex parte motion so order.”
 
Defendants move to increase the amount of the
undertaking from $25,000 to $570,510.23. Defendants contend that, at the time
of the original preliminary injunction hearing, the Court relied upon an
appraisal evaluation of the property of $2.9 million. Defendants argue that the
Court should, instead, utilize its own appraisal of $2.4 million. In addition,
Defendants state that their anticipated costs and fees that were evaluated at
the original hearing were too low and that this amount exceeds $240,000.
 
Defendants’ motion to augment bond is continued to
August 26, 2024.
 
Defendants submitted additional evidence, in the form
of the supplemental declarations of David De Wispelaere  and Olivier J. Labarre, with the Reply. The
Court has discretion to consider new evidence in reply papers in ruling on a
motion provided the other party has notice and an opportunity to respond. See,
Jacobs v. Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage Co. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th
438, 449-50. Plaintiff is provided the opportunity to respond to the new
evidence. 
 
Any supplemental opposition and reply are to solely
address the new evidence submitted by moving party and any issues that arise
therefrom. Any supplemental opposition is to be filed and served under the time
requirements of CCP § 1005(b). The supplemental opposition shall be no more
than 5 pages in length. The supplemental reply shall be no more than 3 pages in
length and no new evidence is authorized with the Reply.”
 
Defendants are ordered to give notice of this ruling.