  Case Number:  23TRCV02508    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
ABEL
  GARCIA RAMIREZ, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV02508




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
JAMES
  PIPITONE, 


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          November 20,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendant James Pipitone
Responding
Party:                  None
(1)  
Motion
for Order Compelling Plaintiff to Provide Verified Responses Without Objections
to Form Interrogatories, Set One
(2)  
Motion
for Order Compelling Plaintiff to Provide Verified Responses Without Objections
to Special Interrogatories, Set One 
(3)  
Motion
for Order Compelling Plaintiff to Provide Verified Responses to Demand for
Production and Inspection, Set One 
 
            The Court considered the moving papers.  No opposition was filed.
RULING
            The motions are GRANTED.
Plaintiff Abel Garcia Ramirez is
ordered to respond without objections to defendant James Pipitone’s Form Interrogatories,
Set One and Special Interrogatories, Set One, within twenty days. 
Plaintiff Abel Garcia Ramirez is ordered
(1) to serve on defendant a verified response without objections to defendant’s
Demand for Production and Inspection, Set One, and (2) to produce all documents
and things in plaintiff’s possession, custody, or control, which are responsive
to defendant’s demand, within twenty days.
The Court orders that plaintiff Ramirez
and his attorney of record California Lawyers & Advocates, APC pay $1,180.00
in sanctions to defendant, within thirty days.
BACKGROUND
On August 2, 2023, plaintiff Abel
Garcia Ramirez filed a complaint against James Pipitone for motor vehicle
negligence and general negligence based on an incident that occurred on August
3, 2021 at the intersection of Palos Verdes Drive North and Dapplegray Lane, in
Rolling Hills Estates. 
On June 10, 2024, plaintiff filed
an amendment designating Anthony Michael Vasquez as Doe 1.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Interrogatories
            If a party to whom interrogatories
are directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move
for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction.  CCP §2030.290(b).  The statute contains no time limit for a
motion to compel where no responses have been served.  All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served.  Leach v. Superior Court
(1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905-906.  
            Request for Production of
Documents 
            Where there has been no timely
response to a CCP §2031.010 demand, the demanding party must seek an order
compelling a response.  CCP
§2031.300.  Failure to timely respond
waives all objections, including privilege and work product.  So, unless the party to whom the demand was
directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the
documents demanded.  There is no deadline
for a motion to compel responses. 
Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not attempt to
resolve the matter outside court before filing the motion.  Where the motion seeks only a response to the
inspection demand, no showing of "good cause" is required.  Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before
Trial, 8:1487.  
DISCUSSION
            Defendant
James Pipitone requests that the Court compel plaintiff Abel Ramirez Garcia to
respond to the initial form and special interrogatories and demand for production
of documents.
            Defendant
asserts that on July 19, 2024, defendant propounded written discovery requests on
plaintiff.  Plaintiff’s responses were
due on August 21, 2024.  On August 23,
2024, defense counsel sent a meet and confer letter requesting the status as to
plaintiff’s late discovery responses and requested responses by September 2,
2024.  On September 4, 2024, defense
counsel sent a second meet and confer letter requesting responses by September
16, 2024.  As of the filing date of the
motions, defense counsel had not received plaintiff’s responses.
            There
is no opposition.
            The
Court finds that the discovery requests were properly served, and that
plaintiff failed to serve responses and thus has waived objections.
            The
motions are thus GRANTED.
            Sanctions
Under CCP
§ 2023.030(a), “[t]he court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that
conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction is
authorized by any provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  Under CCP § 2023.010, an
example of the misuse of the discovery process is “(d) Failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery.” 
Sanctions are mandatory in
connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories and requests for
production of documents against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel unless the court “finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  CCP §§ 2030.290(c), 2031.300(c).
Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348(a) states: 
“The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a
party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the
motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested
discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”
Defendant
requests $561.50 ($250/hr.) for each of the three motions against plaintiff
and/or his attorney of record, California Lawyers & Advocates, APC.  The Court finds that $1,180.00 ($250/hr. x 4
hrs. plus $180 in filing fees) is a reasonable amount to be awarded against plaintiff
and his attorney of record in total for the three motions.
 
ORDER
The motions are GRANTED.
Plaintiff Abel Garcia Ramirez is
ordered to respond without objections to defendant James Pipitone’s Form
Interrogatories, Set One and Special Interrogatories, Set One, within twenty
days. 
Plaintiff Abel Garcia Ramirez is ordered
(1) to serve on defendant a verified response without objections to defendant’s
Demand for Production and Inspection, Set One, and (2) to produce all documents
and things in plaintiff’s possession, custody, or control, which are responsive
to defendant’s demand, within twenty days.  
The Court orders that plaintiff
Ramirez and his attorney of record California Lawyers & Advocates, APC pay
$1,180.00 in sanctions to defendant, within thirty days.
Moving defendant
is ordered to give notice of this ruling.