 Case Number:  23SMCV02145    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE ORDERTENTATIVE RULINGPlaintiff Julia Feliciano’s Motion for Leave to File Second Amended Complaint is conditionally GRANTED.Plaintiff Julia Feliciano shall file her Second Amended Complaint within ten (10) days of entry of this order.Plaintiff Julia Feliciano to give notice. REASONINGThe court may grant leave to amend the pleadings at any stage of the action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a).) A party may discover the need to amend after all pleadings are completed (the case is “at issue”) and new information requires a change in the nature of the claims or defenses previously pleaded. (See Dye v. Caterpillar, Inc. (2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 1366, 1380.)“The policy favoring amendment is so strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be justified. Leave to amend should be denied only where the facts are not in dispute, and the nature of the plaintiff’s claim is clear, but under substantive law, no liability exists and no amendment would change the result.” (Howard v. County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428, internal quotation marks and citations omitted.) Courts apply a policy of great liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint “at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial,” absent prejudice to the adverse party. (Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761.) Prejudice exists where the amendment would require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, added costs of preparation, or an increased burden of discovery. (See Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488 [trial court’s denial of leave to amend was proper where those factors were present].) If the delay in seeking the amendment has not misled or prejudiced the other side, the liberal policy of allowing amendments prevails. (See Higgins v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565 [describing same].)A motion for leave to amend must: (1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments;(2) State what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and(3) State what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located.(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a).) Further, a separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify the following:(1) The effect of the amendment;(2) Why the amendment is necessary and proper;(3) When the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and(4) The reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b).)Plaintiff Julia Feliciano (“Plaintiff”) moves the Court for leave to file a Second Amended Complaint to add a third defendant, Los Angeles Surrogacy, to this action. Plaintiff represents that it was revealed during deposition that Defendant Geoffrey Michael Moss was doing business as Los Angeles Surrogacy at the time of the alleged incident such that Los Angeles Surrogacy should be subject to the lawsuit. (Mot., Marshall Decl.) In opposition, Defendant Geoffrey Michael Moss (“Defendant”) states that his deposition testimony did not so state, and his discovery responses indicate he was not acting in the course or scope of his employment at the time of the accident. (See Opp’n, Barcelos-Pettit Decl. ¶¶ 2-3, Exs. A, B.)The Court finds that allowing Plaintiff to file a Second Amended Complaint is proper here. While the motion suffers from certain procedural errors, i.e., Plaintiff fails to state the exact date she learned of the facts supporting adding Los Angeles Surrogacy to this action, Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration is not dated, and Plaintiff has failed to provide a copy of the proposed pleading, this case is less than a year old, Los Angeles Surrogacy could have been added in place of a Doe defendant, and the Court assumes from Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration that the Second Amended Complaint will only differ by adding a new defendant. Insofar as Defendant states that he was not acting in the scope of his employment at the time of the incident, this is best determined through discovery, and the deposition testimony tends to indicate that Los Angeles Surrogacy is related to Defendant in some respect. Accordingly, Plaintiff Julia Feliciano’s Motion for Leave to File Second Amended Complaint is conditionally GRANTED. Plaintiff Julia Feliciano shall file her Second Amended Complaint within ten (10) days of entry of this order. Plaintiff Julia Feliciano may add Los Angeles Surrogacy as a defendant to this action. Should Plaintiff Julia Feliciano’s Second Amended Complaint differ in any other way, the pleading may be subject to a motion to strike.