  Case Number:  21SMCV00608    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGDefendant/Cross-Complainant Said Hakim’s Motion to Challenge Privilege Clawback Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.285 is DENIED. The emails between Michael Hakim and attorney Benjamin Brin are hereby deemed privileged and may not be used by any party without consent of Cross-Defendant Michael Hakim.Defendant/Cross-Complainant Said Hakim’s Motion for Summary Judgment is CONTINUED to a date to be determined at hearing. The parties are permitted to provide revised memoranda of points and authorities pursuant to statutory filing deadlines.Defendant/Cross-Complainant Said Hakim to give notice. REASONINGCode of Civil Procedure section 2031.285, subdivision (d)(1), provides that a party that has received electronically stored information in discovery that is later subject to a claim of privilege or of protection as attorney work product “may seek a determination of the claim from the court by making a motion within 30 days of receiving the claim and presenting the information to the court conditionally under seal.” Defendant/Cross-Complainant Said Hakim (“Said”) moves the Court for an order determining that a 2016 email exchange between Cross-Defendant Michael Hakim (“Michael”) and attorney Benjamin Brin, who is not counsel in this action, is not privileged or that privilege has been waived on the ground that Plaintiff Papillones, LLC (“Papillones”) waited to clawback the emails despite having notice of their production more than five months earlier.The basic procedural background is as follows: This action was filed on April 1, 2021. Said served Papillones with his Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, and on February 11, 2022, Papillones responded to those requests. (Mot., Hearty Decl. ¶ 7, Ex. 4.) In that production, Papillones produced the emails at issue here, identified by the parties as “the Brin emails.” (Opp’n, Michael Hakim Decl. ¶ 13.) On August 1, 2023, Defendant/Cross-Complainant Julia Hakim (“Julia”) and Said referred to the Brin emails in their responses to Papillones’ form interrogatories. (Mot., Hearty Decl. ¶ 2.) On January 5, 2024, Said filed his motion for summary judgment, and he included the Brin emails as an attachment to support his motion as evidence that the action should be dismissed on statute of limitations grounds. (Mot., Hearty Decl. ¶ 3.) On January 12, 2024, Papillones’ counsel sent a letter to Said’s counsel seeking to clawback the Brin emails on the ground they were privileged. (Korn Decl. ¶ 2, Ex. 1.) This matter first came on for hearing on April 24, 2024, and the Court ordered in camera review of the subject emails before ruling on the motion, as the communications had not been provided by the parties in connection with the present motion.In support of his opposition, Michael provides his declaration with statements that he consulted with attorney Benjamin Brin with regard to real property transactions, and he communicated with Brin with the understanding that the communications were privileged and would not be disclosed to anyone. (Opp’n, Michael Hakim Decl. ¶¶ 2-5.) This statement alone does not establish that an attorney-client relationship existed between Michael and Benjamin Brin. However, the Court has reviewed the subject emails and finds they are protected by the attorney-client privilege.“The attorney-client privilege attaches to a confidential communication between the attorney and the client.” (Costco Wholesale Corp. v. Superior Court (2009) 47 Cal.4th 725, 734.) “The party claiming the privilege has the burden of establishing the preliminary facts necessary to support its exercise, i.e., a communication made in the course of an attorney-client relationship. Once that party establishes facts necessary to support a prima facie claim of privilege, the communication is presumed to have been made in confidence and the opponent of the claim of privilege has the burden of proof to establish the communication was not confidential or that the privilege does not for other reasons apply.” (Id. at p. 733, citations omitted.)Because the subject emails are communications between an attorney and a potential client, the Court will not recount the entirety of the contents of those emails, but the emails show that Michael contacted attorney Benjamin Brin about a quitclaim deed to the Malibu property, and the communication makes clear that Brin understood he would be performing legal work for Michael and would pay Brin for that work.   It is of no consequence whether Michael in fact retained Brin to perform legal work, or that Michael was questioned during his deposition about prior legal representation and failed to mention Benjamin Brin (Mot., Hearty Decl. ¶ 8, Ex. 5, at 164:13-25) because the communication makes clear that Michael was communicating with Brin in confidence with Brin serving as the potential attorney for Michael. As to whether Michael waived his right to claim attorney-client privilege, the attorney-client privilege is waived only where the “holder of the privilege . . . has consented to disclosure made by anyone.” (Evid. Code, § 912, subd. (a).) “Consent to disclosure is manifested by any statement or other conduct of the holder of the privilege indicating consent to the disclosure, including failure to claim the privilege in any proceeding in which the holder has legal standing and the opportunity to claim the privilege.” (Ibid.) The Court cannot conclude that Michael manifested any consent to the disclosure. The Brin emails were inadvertently produced in February 2022 in a case to which Michael was not a party, Said’s counsel should have assumed from the nature of the emails that they were attorney-client communications and and as a result, Said’s counsel had an affirmative duty to inform Michael’s counsel. Once the emails were highlighted by use in connection to Defendant’s Motion for Summary, Michael asserted the privilege.Accordingly, Defendant/Cross-Complainant Said Hakim’s Motion to Challenge Privilege Clawback Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.285 is DENIED. The emails between Michael Hakim and attorney Benjamin Brin are hereby deemed privileged and may not be used by any party without consent of Cross-Defendant Michael Hakim. Defendant/Cross-Complainant Said Hakim’s Motion for Summary Judgment is CONTINUED to be determined at hearing. The parties are permitted to provide revised memoranda of points and authorities and opposition thereto pursuant to statutory filing deadlines.