  Case Number:  20STCV17551    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  29 Rosenthal v. Advance Auto Parts
20STCV17551
Motion to Compel Nonparty Witness Dr. George Graf to Appear
for Deposition.
Tentative
The motion is denied without prejudice.
Background
On May 8, 2020, Melinda Rosenthal (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint
against Advance Auto Parts, Inc.; Worldpac, Inc.; Wheels, Inc.; Onorio Perez;
and Does 1 through 50 for motor vehicle negligence and general negligence
arising out of an automobile accident occurring on May 12, 2018.
On May 2, 2022, Plaintiff amended the complaint to name Advance
Stores Company, Inc. as Doe 1.
On May 12, 2022, Advance Stores Company, Inc., Advance Auto Parts,
Inc. and Worldpac, Inc. filed an answer. The same day, Onorio Perez filed an
answer.
On July 1, 2022, Wheels, Inc. filed a demurrer.  That demurrer
was overruled.  It does not appear that Wheels, Inc. ever filed an answer.
On October 15, 2024, Defendants Advance Stores Company, Inc., Advance Auto Parts, Inc., Worldpac,
Inc., and Onorio Perez (collectively “Defendants”) filed
the motion to compel Dr. George Graf, a nonparty witness, to appear for
deposition. 
No opposition has been filed. 
Defendants filed a proof of service
showing personal service of the motion on Dr. Graf on October 24, 2024.
 
Legal Standard
 
Any party may obtain
discovery … by taking in California the oral deposition of any person,
including any party to the action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) 
The process by which a party may obtain discovery from a person who is not
a party to the action is through a deposition subpoena.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2020.010, subd. (b).) 
 
“A deposition
subpoena may command any of the following: (a) Only the attendance and
testimony of the deponent …. (b) Only the production of business records for
copying …. (c) The attendance and the testimony of the deponent, as well
as the production of business records, other documents, electronically stored
information, and tangible things.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.)
 
A nonparty must be
personally served with a deposition subpoena.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2020.220, subd. (b).)  Service must be completed “a reasonable
time” in advance of the deposition and, when documents are requested, “a
sufficient time in advance of the deposition to provide the deponent a
reasonable opportunity to locate and produce” the documents.  (Id.,
subd. (a).)
 
“If a deponent on
whom a deposition subpoena has been served fails to attend a deposition or
refuses to be sworn as a witness, the court may impose on the deponent the
sanctions described in Section 2020.240 [contempt and an action for civil
damages under section 1992].” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.440, subd. (b).)
 
“If a deponent fails
to answer any question or to produce any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing under the deponent’s control that is specified
in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery
may move the court for an order compelling that answer or
production.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd.
(a).)  “This motion shall be made no later than 60 days after the
completion of the record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied by a meet
and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Id., subd. (b).)
 
“If the court
determines that the answer or production sought is subject to discovery, it
shall order that the answer be given or the production be made on the
resumption of the deposition.  (Id., subd. (i).)
 
“[T]he court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel an answer or production, unless it finds that the one subject
to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Id.,
subd. (j).)  
 
In Chapter 7 of the
Civil Discovery Act, section 2023.010, subdivision (d), defines “[m]isuses of
the discovery process” to include “[f]ailing to respond to or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery.”  Where a party or attorney has engaged in
misuse of the discovery process, the court may impose a monetary sanction in
the amount of “the 
reasonable expenses,
including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that
conduct.”  (Id., § 2023.030, subd. (a).)
 
Except as
specifically modified by the Civil Discovery Act, the provisions of Code of
Civil Procedure sections 1985 through 1997 apply to deposition subpoenas. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.030.) 
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 1987.1, subdivision (a), provides: “If a subpoena requires
the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, or other
things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of
a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in
subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and
an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court
may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from
unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the
right of privacy of the person.”
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 1987.2, subdivision (a), states, in relevant part, that in
connection with an order directing compliance with a subpoena, quashing it, or
modifying it, “the court may in its discretion award the amount of the
reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including
reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed
in bad faith or without substantial justification.” 
 
A motion to compel a
nonparty to answer questions or produce documents “must be personally served on
the nonparty deponent unless the nonparty deponent agrees to accept service by
mail or electronic service.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1346.)
 
Discussion
Defendants
seek an order compelling nonparty witness Dr. George Graf to comply with a
deposition subpoena.
 
The
Court must deny the motion for two procedural reasons.
 
First, Defendants
do not present any evidence in support of the motion.  Although the caption of the motion to compel
refers to a declaration of Ahley R. Morris (counsel for Defendants), no such
declaration (or the exhibits thereto) was included in the moving papers.
 
Second,
service on the nonparty witness was untimely. 
Under California Rules of Court, rule 3.1346, personal service of the
moving papers on Dr. Graf was required.  And
under Code of Civil Procedure section 1005, subdivision (b), moving papers must
be served at least 16 court days before the hearing date.  Here, however, Dr. Graf was not served until 
October
24, 2024. That is only 13 court days before the hearing. 
 
Conclusion
The Court DENIES WITHOUT PREJUDICE Defendants’ Motion to Compel the Deposition of nonparty witness
Dr. George Graf. 
Moving party is ORDERED to
give notice.