 Case Number:  21STCV33534    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  29 Brown v. Buck
21STCV33534
Defendant’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff to Respond to
Form Interrogatories (Set One) and (Set Two)
Defendant’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff to Respond
to Special Interrogatories (Set One) 
Defendant’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff to Respond
to Requests for Production (Set One) Defendant’s Motion for Order
Deeming Plaintiff to Have Admitted the Truth of the Matters Specified in
Requests for Admission (Set One) 
Tentative
The motions to compel are granted.
The motion for a deemed-admitted order is
granted.
The requests for sanctions are granted in
part and denied in part.
Background
On September 10, 2021, Dane Brown (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Edward Buck (“Defendant”) and Does 1 through 20 for (1)
sexual battery, (2) assault, (3) battery, (4) hate violence, (5)
negligence, (6) intentional infliction of emotional distress, and (7) human
trafficking.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant caused Plaintiff to
overdose on methamphetamines twice in one week in September
2019.  According to the complaint, Defendant was criminally charged
with (among other things) distribution of methamphetamines resulting in death
and convicted in July 2021.
 
Defendant filed his answer on July 13, 2023.
 
Plaintiff initially represented himself, but on February
13, 2024, Plaintiff substituted in counsel.
 
On October 4, 2024, Defendant filed a
motion for an order deeming Plaintiff to have admitted the truth of the matters
specified in Request for Admissions (Set One).  Defendant also seeks monetary sanctions.  The motion was initially set for hearing on
November 4.  
 
On October 10, 2024, Defendant filed
the motions to compel Plaintiff to respond to form interrogatories, special
interrogatories, and requests for production. 
On all three motions, Defendant also seeks monetary sanctions.  These motions were set for hearing on
November 13.
 
On October 29, the Court, on its own
motion, continued the hearing on the motion for a deemed-admitted order to
November 13.  
 
Plaintiff filed (untimely) oppositions
to the four motions on November 4.  Defendant
filed a combined reply on November 7.
 
Legal Standard
A party must
respond to interrogatories within 30 days after service. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.260, subd.(a).) If a party to whom interrogatories are directed does not
provide a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order
compelling response to the interrogatories. (Id., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) There
is no time limit for a motion to compel initial responses, and no meet and
confer efforts are required. (See Id., § 2030.290; Sinaiko Healthcare
Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390,
411.) Nor must a separate statement be filed. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1345(b)(1).)  In addition, a party who
fails to provide a timely response generally waives all objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) 
When a party
moves to compel initial responses to interrogatories, “the court shall impose a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against
any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes [the
motion], unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2030.290, subd. (c).)
A party must
respond to requests for production of documents within 30 days after service.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.260, subd.(a).) If a party to whom requests for
production of documents are directed does not provide timely responses, the
requesting party may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Id.,
§ 2031.300, subd. (b).) There is no time limit for a motion to compel initial
responses, and no meet and confer efforts are required. (See id., § 2031.300;
Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 390, 411.) Nor must a separate statement be filed. (Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1345(b)(1).)  In
addition, a party who fails to provide a timely response generally waives all
objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.300, subd. (a).) 
When a party
moves to compel initial responses to requests for production, “the court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes [the
motion], unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.300, subd. (c).) 
A party must
respond to requests for admission within 30 days after service. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.250, subd.(a).) If a party to whom requests for admission are
directed does not provide a timely response, the propounding party “may move
for an order that … the truth of [the] matters specified in the requests be
deemed admitted.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).) There is no time
limit for such a motion, and no meet and confer efforts are required. (See id.,
§ 2033.280; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare
Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 411.) Nor must a separate statement be
filed. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(b)(1).)  In addition, a party who fails to provide a
timely response generally waives all objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (a).) 
The court
“shall” make the order that the truth of the matters specified in the request
be deemed admitted unless the court “finds that the party to whom the requests
for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion,
a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial
compliance with Section 2033.220.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c); see St. Mary v. Super. Ct. (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 762, 778-780.)
“It is mandatory
that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a
timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion [to deem
admitted the truth of the matters specified in the requests for
admission].”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.280, subd. (c).)
In Chapter 7 of
the Civil Discovery Act, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.010, subdivision
(d), defines “[m]isuses of the discovery process” to include “[f]ailing to
respond to or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.”  Where a party or attorney has engaged in
misuse of the discovery process, the court may impose a monetary sanction in
the amount of “the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by
anyone as a result of that conduct.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.020, subd. (a).)
Discussion
Defendant served Plaintiff with
Request for Admissions (Set One), Form Interrogatories (Sets One and Two),
Special Interrogatories (Set One), and Request for Production (Set One). (Myer
Decl., ¶ 2; Joseph Decls., ¶ 2.) Plaintiff has not responded to this discovery.  (Myer Decl., ¶ 14; Joseph Decls., ¶ 6.)
 
The Court exercises its discretion to
consider Plaintiff’s four untimely oppositions. 
In each of the oppositions, Plaintiff’s counsel states (among other
things) that Plaintiff “has been periodically unhoused since the filing of this
action,” that Plaintiff suffers from “severe illnesses that periodically render
him disabled,” and that counsel has been unable to contact Plaintiff.  (Gyamfi Decls., ¶¶ 2-8.)
 
On these facts, the four motions are
granted.  Plaintiff is a civil litigant
and has an obligation to comply with his obligations under the Civil Discovery
Act.  The failure to communicate with
counsel does not excuse those obligations. 
The Court orders Plaintiff to respond to the interrogatories and
document requests and grants the motion for a deemed-admitted order, as it must
under the applicable statutes.
 
As for sanctions, beginning with motion for a deemed-admitted order, the Civil Discovery
Act states that the imposition of monetary sanctions is “mandatory,” with no
exception, against the party or attorney (or both) “whose failure to serve a
timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)  Here, the failure was entirely the result of
the conduct of Plaintiff, and not counsel, and so no sanctions are imposed
against counsel.  Plaintiff, however, is
subject to mandatory sanctions.  The
Court sets sanctions in the amount of $700, based on two hours of attorney time
multiplied by counsel’s reasonable billing rate of $350 per hour.  
Turning to the three motions to compel, the
governing provisions of the Civil Discovery Act provide for sanctions unless the Court “finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (c) &  2031.300, subd. (c).)  Neither Plaintiff nor counsel acted with
substantial justification, but in these circumstances the imposition of
sanctions would be unjust.  As to
counsel, she has been put in an untenable position by her client; it would be unjust
to impose a sanction on counsel who has done nothing wrong and whose exposure
to sanctions is entirely the result of the conduct of her client.  As to Plaintiff himself, the Court is aware
that it previously sanctioned him in the amount of $700, and the Court has just
sanctioned him in the amount of an additional $700.  Moreover, the Court is now informed that
Plaintiff is homeless and frequently suffers from disabling illnesses.  The Court finds that imposing additional
monetary sanctions on a homeless, ill person, under the unique circumstances of
this case, would be unjust.
Conclusion
 
The Court grants Defendant’s motions
to compel and Defendant’s motion for a deemed-admitted order.
 
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff Dane Brown
to serve written, verified, code compliant responses, without objection to
Defendant’s Form Interrogatories (Sets One and Two) within 30 days of notice.
 
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff Dane Brown
to serve written, verified, code compliant responses, without objection to
Defendant’s Special Interrogatories (Set One) within 30 days of notice.
 
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff Dane Brown
to serve written, verified, code compliant responses, without objection to
Defendant’s Requests for Production (Set One) within 30 days of notice.
 
The Court ORDERS that Plaintiff Dane
Brown is DEEMED TO HAVE ADMITTED the truth of the matters specified in
Defendant’s Requests for Admission (Set One).
 
The Court grants in part and denies
in part Defendant’s requests for sanctions.
 
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff Brown to
pay monetary sanctions under the Civil Discovery Act to Defendant (through
counsel) in the amount of $700 within 30 days of notice.
 
The Court otherwise DENIES Defendant’s
requests for sanctions.
 
Moving party is ORDERED to give
notice.
 