 Case Number:  24PSCV02666    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  H Leonard
v. Queen of the Valley, Case
No. 24PSCV02666


ORDER
ON DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER


Defendant Emanate Health Medical
Center dba Emanate Health Queen of the Valley Hospital’s (sued and served as
Queen of the Valley) Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is
SUSTAINED, with 30 days’ leave to amend.

Background
Plaintiff
Lisa Leonard (“Plaintiff”) alleges that her mother died in connection with
receiving poor care at a medical facility.
On August
20, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (the “Operative Complaint”
or “FAC”) against Emanate Health Medical Center dba Emanate Health Queen of the
Valley Hospital’s (sued and served as Queen of the Valley) (“Defendant”) and “Does
1 to 1 or who company brings.”
Pending
before the Court is Defendant’s demurrer to the Operative Complaint. For the
reasons stated herein, the demurrer is sustained, with 30 days’ leave to amend.

Legal
Standard
A demurrer
may be made on the grounds that the pleading, inter alia, does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(e).)
“A demurrer
tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or
are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal.App.3d 902, 905 [citations omitted].) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff
need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the
factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole
v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal.App.3d 714, 721.) “[A] demurrer does not,
however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in
the pleading, or the construction placed on an instrument pleaded therein, or
facts impossible in law, or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may
take judicial knowledge.” (S. Shore Land
Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732 [citations omitted].)
“A general demurrer based on the statute of limitations is
only permissible where the dates alleged in the complaint show that the action
is barred by the statute of limitations. The running of the statute must appear
‘clearly and affirmatively’ from the dates alleged. It is not sufficient that
the complaint might be barred.” (Roman v.
County of Los Angeles (2000) 85 Cal.App.4th 316, 324 [citation
omitted].)
 
Discussion
Defendant
demurs, per Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, to the Operative Complaint,
on the basis that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action. Specifically, Defendant contends the action is time-barred. The Court
agrees, based on the allegations pled.
On August 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed as
the Operative Complaint a 2-page Judicial Council Form PLD-C-001, wherein she
purported to state causes of action for “Breach of Contract” and “Other.”
Plaintiff failed to attach any causes of action, as stated in Paragraph 8 of
the Operative Complaint, and has failed to identify or attach any contract. A
review of the Operative Complaint reflects that Plaintiff has brought this
lawsuit against Defendant, described in Paragraph 7 as a “medical provider,”
for her mother’s passing “from connection of poor care.” (Id.,
¶ 5; see also, ¶ 8 [“Mother passed away from wrongdoers. . .There are things
contributed that led to her death. I also noticed different diagnosis than what
she went in for on the death certificate of 7/3/23. • Negligence. Breached duty
of care. • Waited long hours after notifying Q.O.T.V. that my mother needed
care/treatment right away, and that she had 2 strokes previously. Asked for her
to have IV fluids and oxygen right away. • Had third stroke after admitted. •
Fell out of bed in their care, body was swollen, then not able to walk causing
to go to rehab for care with cost. • Incorrect records, didn’t see notes of
what happened”].) Based on these allegations, Plaintiff’s complaint sounds in
wrongful death stemming from medical negligence.
Code of Civil
Procedure section 340.5 states, in relevant part, that “[i]n an action for
injury or death against a health care provider based upon such person’s alleged
professional negligence, the time for the commencement of action shall be three
years after the date of injury or one year after the plaintiff discovers, or
through the use of reasonable diligence should have discovered, the injury,
whichever occurs first.”  
Here, Plaintiff makes
reference to her mother’s “death certificate of 7/3/23,” yet Plaintiff did not file her original complaint until
over one year later on August 16, 2024. Although Plaintiff alleges that she
“gave [an] intent to sue letter” (FAC, ¶ 5), presumably pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 364, there is no indication when the intent to sue
letter was served and thus no way for the Court to determine if the purported
notice tolled the statute of limitations. The Court sustains Defendant’s
demurrer on this basis, but will allow Plaintiff to provide the foregoing
information.
Defendant
further asserts that the Operative Complaint fails to plead a cause of action
for medical negligence. The Court agrees. “The elements of [a] medical negligence cause of
action allege (1) the duty of the professional to use such skill, prudence, and
diligence as other members of his profession commonly possess and exercise; (2)
a breach of that duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between the negligent
conduct and the resulting injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from
the professional's negligence.” (Belfiore-Braman v. Rotenberg (2018) 25
Cal.App.5th 234, 238, fn. 3 [quotations and citation omitted].) Plaintiff has
not alleged an act or omission by Defendant that breached any duty of care owed
to Plaintiff and/or her mother. Plaintiff has not pled causation. The
Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer on this basis. Plaintiff is granted 30
days’ leave to amend the Operative Complaint. 