 Case Number:  23PSCV03582    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  H Plaintiff Rebecca Castillo’s Application for
Default Judgment is DENIED without prejudice.
Background 
In this case brought under the Unruh Civil Rights Act, Plaintiff Rebecca
Castillo (“Plaintiff”), a visually impaired and legally blind person who
requires screen-reading software to read website content using a computer, alleges
that D.S.A. Sports, Inc. (“Defendant”) has failed to design, construct, maintain,
and operate its website to be fully accessible to and independently usable by
Plaintiff and other blind or visually impaired people.
On November 15, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting a cause of
action against Defendant and Does 1-10 for violations of the Unruh Civil Rights
Act, California Civil Code § 51 et seq. 
On February 13, 2024, the Clerk entered default against Defendant. An
Order to Show Cause Re: Default Judgment is set for October 24, 2024. 
Discussion 
Plaintiff’s Application for Default Judgment is DENIED without
prejudice. The following defects are noted: 
1.       Plaintiff has not provided
the Court with any evidence reflecting that the website in question, www.sportsfevercal.com, is operated and/or
controlled by Defendant.

2.       Plaintiff has failed to
attach any documentary evidence in support of paragraphs 6 through 13 of her
declaration. For instance, Plaintiff represents that she encountered “multiple
unlabeled or mislabeled buttons and links” and “multiple pages containing
insufficient navigational headings” (Plaintiff’s Decl., ¶¶ 7 and 8), but has
not provided the Court with any screen shots demonstrating the website’s deficiencies.



3.       Paragraph 8 of Plaintiff’s
proposed judgment seeks “[a] preliminary and permanent injunction enjoining Defendant D.S.A. Sports, Inc.
(‘Defendant’) from further violations of the UCRA, Civil Code § 51, et seq.
with respect to Defendant’s website [sic] www.sportsfevercal.com.” This
statement is vague and ambiguous and lacks specificity.  Paragraph 8 must be amended to state
what specific “further violations” of the Unruh Civil Rights Act Defendant is
enjoined from committing.
Accordingly,
the Court denies Plaintiff’s application without prejudice and directs
Plaintiff to submit a new default judgment packet that addresses the
aforementioned defects.