 Case Number:  24PSCV00062    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  H Galvan
v. Allied Professional Nursing Care, Inc., et al.,
Case No. 24PSCV00062
ORDER
ON MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL
Counsel for Defendant Karen Powell
Gutierrez’s (i.e., Brown & Charbonneau LLP) Motion to be Relieved
as Counsel is GRANTED, effective upon the
filing of a proof of service showing service of the signed order upon Client at Client’s last
known address.
 
Background
Plaintiff
Crystal Galvan (“Plaintiff”) alleges as follows:
In February 2023, Plaintiff learned from her sister, Claire
Powell, that she owns a 1/3 interest in Allied Professional Nursing Care, Inc.
(“Allied”), which she inherited through a divorce settlement between her
mother, Karen Powell Gutierrez, and her former stepfather when she was a minor
in 2004. On or about December 31, 2004, Gutierrez had asked Plaintiff to sign a
document which Gutierrez said stated that Plaintiff was a “shareholder [in
Allied] to which there is no value.” Plaintiff, from December 31, 2004 to the present,
has never been asked to sign any documents or make any decisions related to
Allied. Gutierrez and Powell have received yearly bonuses from Allied while
Plaintiff has not received anything. Plaintiff had a forensic accountant
conduct an audit of Allied which has revealed serious financial wrongdoings.
On
January 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting causes of action
against Allied, Karen Powell Gutierrez, Claire Powell, Darren Orvananos, Annie
Gutierrez, and Does 1-10 for:
1.       Concealment,

2.       Fraudulent
Misrepresentation,
3.       Negligent
Misrepresentation,
4.       Money
Had and Received,
5.       Conversion,
6.       Breach
of Fiduciary Duty,
7.       Negligent
Infliction of Emotional Distress,
8.       Violation
of California Bus. & Prof. Code §§ 17200 et seq. & 17500 et seq.,
9.       Unjust
Enrichment, and
10.     Constructive
Trust.
Pending
before the Court is Brown & Charbonneau LLP’s motion to be relieved as Karen
Powell Gutierrez’s counsel.

Discussion
Brown
& Charbonneau LLP seeks to
be relieved as counsel of record for Karen Powell Gutierrez (the “Client”).
The
Court has discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should
be granted provided that there is no prejudice to the client and it does not
disrupt the orderly process of justice. (See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d
398.)
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362 requires (1) a notice of motion and motion directed
to the client (made on the Notice of
Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a
declaration stating in general terms and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure § 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under section
284(1) (made on the Declaration in
Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form
(MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion, the declaration, and
the proposed order on the client and on all other parties who have appeared in
the case; and (4) a proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)). The Court may delay the effective
date of the order relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the
signed order on the client has been filed with the court. (Cal. Rules Court,
rule 3.1362(e).) 
Attorney Mark Higuchi attests
that there has been a breakdown in the attorney-client relationship, such that
irreconcilable differences have developed between them. Higuchi states that he
has personally served Client with copies of the motion papers filed with his
declaration.The
motion is not opposed. The Court determines that the requirements of Rules of Court
Rule 3.1362 enumerated above have been sufficiently met.
Accordingly,
the motion is granted, effective upon the filing of a proof of service
showing service of the signed order upon Client at Client’s last known
address.  