  Case Number:  23AHCV01919    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANTS/CROSS-COMPLAINANTS WEN PIN LIN’S AND LILY POON’S
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENTI.        INTRODUCTION          This is a premises liability
action arising from a dog attack. On or
around January 30, 2022, Plaintiff Michael Unzicker (“Plaintiff”) suffered
serious bodily injuries, scarring, and disfigurement resulting from being
bitten by a dog allegedly owned by Defendant Vincent Doe (“Doe”) while present
at the home of Defendants Debra Cruz (“Cruz”), Wen Pin Lin (“Lin”), and Lily
Poon (“Poon”).            On November 7, 2023, Lin and Poon jointly filed their
General Denial (“Answer”).                      On November 8, 2023, Defendants Lin and Poon
(“Cross-Complainants”) filed a cross-complaint against Doe, Cruz (“Cross-Defendants”),
and ROES 1 to 10, inclusive, alleging three causes of action: (1) indemnity;
(2) apportionment of fault; and (3) declaratory relief.            On March 20, 2024, default was entered against
Cross-Defendant Cruz on the Cross-Complaint.           On April 5, 2024, Cross-Complainants (“Moving Defendants”) filed
and served the instant Motion for Summary Judgment. Defendant moves for summary
judgment or, alternatively, summary adjudication in its favor and against
Plaintiff.                      II.      LEGAL
STANDARDSummary judgment is
appropriately granted where it is shown that an action has no merit or that
there is no defense to the action. Code Civ. Proc. §437c(a).  A cause of action has no
merit if one of the following exists: (1) one or more necessary element cannot
be established; (2) a defendant establishes an affirmative defense. Section
§437c(o). A motion for summary
judgment shall be granted where all the papers submitted show that there is no
triable issue of material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law. Section 437c(c). Summary adjudication may
be granted where it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative
defense, a claim of damages, or an issue of duty. Section 437c(f).  III.     ANALYSIS          A. Summary of Pleading          Plaintiff alleges he was viciously attacked and bit by a
dog, believed to be owned by Defendant Vincent Doe while at or near 2916
Pyrenees Dr. Alhambra, CA 91803 (“Subject Property”)[1]. (Compl.,
¶ GN-1 at p. 4.) Plaintiff alleges he suffered bodily injuries, scarring,
disfigurement, etc. because of the dog attack. (Id.) Plaintiff alleges
the dog attack was caused by the sole negligence of the Defendants. (Id.)
Plaintiff alleges Defendants Debra Cruz, Wen Pin Lin, and Lily Poon, as owners
of the Subject Property, had a duty to ensure that invitees and/or employees
are safeguarded against dog attacks. (Id.)           B. Discussion          Moving Defendants contend they are entitled to judgment as
a matter of law because they did not have prior, actual knowledge of the
physical presence of dogs on their property or of any prior, vicious
propensities involving the same. As such, Moving Defendants assert no duty was
owed to Plaintiff.           “The elements of a cause of action for
premises liability are the same as those for negligence.” (Jones v. Awad
(2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 1200, 1207.) “Accordingly, the plaintiff must prove, ‘a
legal duty to use due care, a breach of such legal duty, and the breach as the
proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury.’ ” (Id.)             “Under California law, a landlord who
does not have actual knowledge of a tenant’s dog’s vicious nature cannot be
held liable when the dog attacks a third person. In other words, where a third
person is bitten or attacked by a tenant’s dog, the landlord’s duty of
reasonable care to the injured third person depends on whether the dog’s
vicious behavior was reasonably foreseeable.” (Donchin v. Guerrero
(1995) 34 Cal.App.4th 1832, 1838.) “Without knowledge of a dog’s propensities a
landlord will not be able to foresee the animal poses a danger and thus will
not have a duty to take measures to prevent the attack.” (Id.)  1.    
Knowledge of Dog’s PropensityWhether the landlord had actual knowledge “can be
satisfied by circumstantial evidence the landlord must have known about
the dog’s dangerousness as well as direct evidence he actually knew.” (Id.) First, Moving Defendants assert that they own the
property located at 9720 Live Oak Avenue, Temple City, CA (“Subject Property”).
(DSSMF 1 – Lin Decl., ¶2; Poon Decl., ¶2.) Poon avers she leased the Subject
Property to Steven Smith, Steve Cruze, Debra Cruze, and Daniel Aguilar. (DSSMF
2 – Lease Agreement attached to Hurley Decl., ¶7, Ex. E; Lin Decl., ¶4; Poon
Decl., ¶4.) Lin and Poon state that the lease agreement explicitly provided the
subject property was for personal residential use of the four above-named
lessees and any assignments or subletting to other parties was prohibited
without prior consent of the owners. (DSSMF 4-5 – Lease Agreement attached to
Hurley Decl., ¶7, Ex. E; Lin Decl., ¶¶6-7; Poon Decl., ¶¶6-7.) Lin and Poon
also state the lease further provided that no animal or pet was allowed to be
kept on the Subject Property without the owners’ prior written consent. (DSSMF
6 – Lease Agreement attached to Hurley Decl., ¶7, Ex. E; Lin Decl., ¶8; Poon
Decl., ¶8.) In late December 2021, Lin avers she was present on
the Subject Property and observed an individual who was both staying at the
Subject Property, in possession of a dog, and not one of the named lessees.
(DSSMF 8 – Lin Decl., ¶9.) Lin further avers she was told by Defendant Cruz
that the dog belonged to her friend “Vincent” and confirmed he and the dog were
staying at the Subject Property. (DSSMF 9-10 – Lin Decl., ¶¶12-13.) Lin attests
that she advised Defendant Cruz that “Vincent” and his dog were not permitted
to stay at the Subject Property and that they would have to move out. (DSSMF 11
– Lin Decl., ¶14.) Lin and Poon declare that Vincent and the dog were still present
at the Subject Property in early January 2022, causing moving Defendants to
serve a 60-day notice to terminate the lease on January 15, 2022. (DSSMF 12-13
– Notice of Termination of Lease attached to Hurley Decl., ¶8, Ex. F; Lin
Decl., ¶¶16-17; Poon Decl., ¶11.)Next, moving Defendants assert that they never
permitted animals to reside at their property. (DSSMF 7 – Lin Decl., ¶15; Poon
Decl., ¶9.) Moving Defendants never received complaints regarding the behavior
of animals allegedly residing at the Subject Property prior to the subject
incident. (DSSMF 17 – Lin Decl., ¶19; Poon Decl., ¶13.) Finally, moving
Defendants state that they were not aware that any animals allegedly residing
at the Subject Property bit anyone or acted aggressively towards others prior
to the subject incident. (DSSMF 16, 18 – Lin Decl., ¶¶18, 20; Poon Decl., ¶¶12,
14.)          In reviewing the evidence presented by moving Defendants, a
reasonable jury could infer that moving Defendants did not have actual
knowledge either circumstantially or directly of Defendant Vincent Doe’s dog’s
dangerous/violent propensities.           Thus, moving Defendants makes a prima facie showing
that there is no triable issue of material fact as to whether moving Defendants
had actual knowledge of Defendant Vincent Doe’s dog’s dangerous/violent
propensities.           The burden now shifts to Plaintiff to show that there is a
triable issue of material fact as to whether Moving Defendants had actual
knowledge of Defendant Vincent Doe’s dog’s dangerous/violent propensities.          Whether a triable issue of fact exists is determined by the
supporting papers, not the pleadings. (Martins v. Winder (1961) 191
Cal.App.2d 143.) Such supporting papers must be evidentiary, and not ultimate
facts or conclusions of law, and must be based upon the affined’s personal
knowledge. (Estate of Nelson (1964) 227 Cal.App.2d 42.)          Here, Plaintiff fails to meet her burden showing that a
triable issue of material fact as to whether moving Defendants had actual
knowledge of Defendant Vincent Doe’s dog’s dangerous/violent propensities.
Specifically, Plaintiff does not submit any evidence to refute the evidence
presented by moving Defendants. IV.     CONCLUSION
AND ORDER          Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Defendants/Cross-Complainants
Wen Pin Lin’s and Lily Poon’s Motion for Summary Judgment.                    Defendants/Cross-Complainants Wen Pin Lin and Lily Poon to
give notice of this order.                     Dated: September 10, 2024                                                                                                                                                        JARED
D. MOSES                                                                     JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT


