 Case Number:  23STCV18736    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     May 6, 2024               TRIAL DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Moayed Harb v. Ford Motor Company, et
al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV18736            
 
DEMURRER
TO COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Ford Motor Company
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Moayed
Harb
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a lemon law action filed on August 8, 2023. Plaintiff purchased a
2019 Ford F150 equipped with a 10R80 transmission system which is alleged to
have a series of known defects causing hesitation, shuddering, and shifting
issues. 
 
Defendant Ford Motor Company demurs
to the third cause of action for violation of Civil Code section 1793.2(a)(3)
and the fifth cause of action for fraudulent concealment. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Defendant’s
Demurrer to the Complaint is OVERRULED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendant Ford Motor Company demurs
to the third cause of action for violation of Civil Code section 1793.2(a)(3)
and the fifth cause of action for fraudulent concealment. 
 
Legal Standard
 
A demurrer tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) The
ultimate facts alleged in the complaint must be deemed true, as well as all
facts that may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged. (Marshall
v. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403; see also Shields
v. County of San Diego (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 103, 133 [stating, “[o]n
demurrer, pleadings are read liberally and allegations contained therein are
assumed to be true”].) “This rule of liberal construction means that the
reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.” (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th
1228, 1238.) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who has filed the pleading subject to the demurrer and file a declaration
detailing their meet-and-confer efforts. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a).) However, an insufficient meet-and-confer process
is not grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 430.41(a)(4).)
 
The Declaration of R. Dallin Sopp
in support of this motion states that counsel for the parties met and conferred
telephonically on September 26, 2023, but were unable to resolve this dispute.
(Declaration of R. Dallin Sopp ISO Dem ¶ 3 Exh. 1.) The Court therefore finds
that Defendant has satisfied the statutory meet-and-confer obligations. 
 
Third Cause of Action: Violation of Civil Code Section
1793.2(a)(3)
 
            Defendant
demurs to the third cause of action for violation of Civil Code section
1793.2(a)(3) for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action. 
 
            The code
section on which this claim is based states that every manufacturer of consumer
goods for which the manufacturer has made an express warranty shall “[m]ake
available to authorized service and repair facilities sufficient service
literature and replacement parts to effect repairs during the express warranty
period.” (Civ. Code § 1793.2(a)(3).) 
 
            Defendant
contends that this cause of action is insufficiently pled because it merely
contains conclusory recitations of the applicable law, without factual
allegations of the violating conduct or resulting damages. It is true that, as
Defendant argues, the substantive paragraphs within this cause of action only
contain bare recitations of the law. (Complaint ¶¶ 49-50.) However, paragraph
48 incorporates, by reference, all preceding paragraphs, including the
substantive factual allegations contained within the “Factual Background”
section of the Complaint. (¶ 48, see ¶¶ 9-36.) These allegations identify
various Technical Service Bulletins concerning the defective transmission
system. (Complaint ¶¶ 27-33.) Further, the Complaint clearly alleges that these
TSBs do not suffice to fix the transmission defects. (¶ 34.) Plaintiff also directly
alleges damages resulting from the diminution in value of the subject vehicle.
(Complaint ¶¶ 15-16; 23.) These allegations are sufficient to maintain a cause
of action for breach of Civil Code section 1793.2(a)(3). 
 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Demurrer to the third cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Fifth Cause of Action: Fraudulent Concealment
 
            Defendant
also demurs to the fifth cause of action for fraudulent concealment for failure
to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
 
The elements of fraudulent concealment are (1) concealment
or suppression of a material fact; (2) by a defendant with a duty to disclose
the fact to the plaintiff; (3) intent to defraud the plaintiff by intentionally
concealing or suppressing the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware of the fact
and would not have acted as he or she did if he or she had known of the
concealed or suppressed fact; and (5) the plaintiff sustained damage as a
result of the concealment or suppression of fact. (Hambridge v. Healthcare
Partners Medical Group, Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 124, 162.)  
 
Defendant asserts that this cause of action is without merit because
it fails to adequately allege specific facts giving rise to the claim, because
Plaintiff did not allege a transactional relationship, and because the claim is
barred by the economic loss rule.
 
1.      Specificity
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff has failed to allege fraudulent
concealment with specificity because Plaintiff did not plead the identity of
the individuals at Ford who purportedly concealed material facts or made untrue
representations or their authority to speak and act on behalf of Ford.
Defendant relies on the general rule for pleading fraud against a corporation,
which requires a plaintiff to allege the identity of the speaker, their
authority, to whom they spoke, what they said, and when it was said. (See,
e.g., Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153,
157.) However, as Plaintiff correctly states in opposition, this rule is
inapplicable to a claim of fraudulent concealment. (Alfaro v. Community
Housing Improvement System & Planning Association, Inc. (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384 [“How does one show ‘how’ and ‘by what means’ something
didn’t happen, or ‘when’ it never happened, or ‘where’ it never happened?”].)
Instead, such details, in the context of a fraudulent concealment claim, “are
properly the subject of discovery, not demurrer.” (Id. at 1384-85.) 
 
Defendant also argues that Plaintiff did not adequately allege active
concealment or detrimental reliance with sufficient specificity. As Plaintiff
argues, however, the specificity requirement is “relaxed when it is
apparent from the allegations that the defendant necessarily possesses
knowledge of the facts.” (Quelimane Co. v. Steward Title Guaranty Co. (1998)
19 Cal.4th 26, 27.) 
 
Finally,
Defendant argues that the Complaint is self-defeating because it relies on
Technical Service Bulletins that predated the purchase of the vehicle. (See
Complaint ¶¶ 27-34.) In opposition, Plaintiff contends that the TSBs
demonstrate Ford’s “accretion of knowledge” that is not public, but do not
themselves disclose the full scope of the defects in the transmission and
therefore do not defeat the claim of Ford’s exclusive knowledge. (See In re
MyFord Touch Consumer Litigation (N.D.Cal. 2014) 46 F.Supp.3d 936, 960.) As
all allegations must be construed in the light most favorable to Plaintiff, the
Court is persuaded that, under the interpretation offered by Plaintiff, the
fifth cause of action is pled with adequate specificity. 
 
2.      Special or Transactional Relationship
 
            Defendant next argues that there is
no duty to disclose any defect because there was no special or transactional
relationship with Plaintiff. 
 
There are four circumstances in which nondisclosure or
concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a
fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive
knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant
actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff; or (4) when the defendant
makes partial representations but also suppresses some material fact.” (LiMandri
v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 336.) A duty to disclose may also
arise when a defendant possesses or exerts control over material facts not
readily available to the plaintiff. (Jones v. ConocoPhillips Co. (2011)
198 Cal.App.4th 1198, 1199.)  
 
“Even under the strict rules of common law pleading, one of
the canons was that less particularity is required when the facts lie more in
the knowledge of the opposite party.” (Alfaro v. Community Housing
Improvement System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1256,
1384.)  
 
            Defendants argue that this cause of
action fails because the Complaint does not allege a transactional relationship
between the parties. Ordinarily, a duty to disclose absent a fiduciary
relationship “presupposes the existence of [a] relationship between the
plaintiff and defendant in which a duty to disclose can arise.” (Bigler-Engler
v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 311.) Defendant relies on the
general rule to argue that, because Defendant is the manufacturer of
Plaintiff’s vehicle, there was not a “direct dealing” between the parties that
gives rise to a duty to disclose. (See Bigler-Engler, supra, at 311.)
Defendant’s reliance on the Bigler-Engler rule is misplaced, as
that case is both unpersuasive in this context and factually distinguishable. 
 
            Bigler-Engler is unpersuasive
because, although a manufacturer does not have a transactional relationship
with the “public at large” (id.), a vendor does have a duty to
disclose material facts “not only to immediate purchasers, but also to subsequent
purchasers when the vendor has reason to expect that the item will be
resold.” (OCM Principle Opportunities Fund v. CIBC World Markets Corp. (2007)
157 Cal.App.4th 835, 859-60.) Here, the essential allegation is that
Plaintiff is not a member of the public at large, but a subsequent purchaser of
a product manufactured by Defendant. Furthermore, Bigler-Engler is
factually distinguishable from this case, as that action was, at its heart, a
medical malpractice case in which the plaintiff was a patient who sued a
physician, the physician’s medical group, and the manufacturer of the medical
device involved. (Bigler-Engler, supra, 7 Cal.App.5th at 284.)
Here, however, Plaintiff is a purchaser of the product himself, not
merely the person on whom the product was used. The Court does not interpret
existing precedent to require Plaintiff to allege any further relationship with
the manufacturer of the vehicle exhibiting the defects giving rise to this
action. 
 
            The Court therefore concludes that
Defendants have not shown that the fifth cause of action does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action on this basis.
 
3.      Economic
Loss Rule
 
Defendant also argues that the economic loss rule bars
Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action, because Plaintiff is attempting to recover
tort damages arising from a contract. 
 
Under the economic loss rule, “[w]here a purchaser’s
expectations in a sale are frustrated because the product he bought is not
working properly, his remedy is in contract alone, for he has suffered only
‘economic losses.’” (Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004)
34 Cal.4th 979, 988.) The economic loss rule “hinges on a distinction drawn
between transactions involving the sale of goods for commercial purposes where
economic expectations are protected by commercial and contract law, and those
involving the sale of defective products to individual consumers who are
injured in a manner which has traditionally been remedied by resort to the law
of torts.” (Id.) Simply stated, the economic loss rule “prevents the law
of contract and the law of tort from dissolving one into the other.” (Id.)  
 
The restrictions on contract remedies serve purposes not
found in tort law—they protect the parties’ freedom to bargain over special
risks, and they promote contract formation by limiting liability to the value
of the promise. (Harris v. Atlantic Richfield (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 70,
77.) This encourages efficient breaches, resulting in increased production of
goods and services at a lower cost to society. (Id.) Because of these
overriding policy considerations, the California Supreme Court has proceeded
with caution in carving out exceptions to the traditional contract remedy
restrictions. (Id.)  
 
Nevertheless, the most widely recognized exception to the
economic loss rule is when a defendant’s conduct constitutes a tort as well as
a breach of contract. (Id. at 78.) When one party commits fraud during
the contract formation or performance, the injured party may recover in both
contract and tort. (Id.)  Here Plaintiff
has adequately alleged fraud, so the Complaint should not be barred by the economic
loss rule. Indeed, as Plaintiff’s argue, the First District Court of
Appeal expressly ruled late last year that the economic loss rule does not
apply to fraudulent concealment claims in Song-Beverly actions. (Dhital v.
Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, 843 [review granted
February 1, 2023].) Although our Supreme Court has granted review of this
opinion and deferred pending consideration and disposition of a related issue
in Rattagan v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (S272113), (see Dhital v.
Nissan North America (2023) 304 Cal.Rptr.3d 82 (Mem)), the appellate
opinion remains published and therefore controlling authority.   The Court finds Dhital to be
persuasive and, thus, overrules the demurrer on this ground.
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Demurrer
to the fifth cause of action for fraudulent concealment is OVERRULED.
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Demurrer to the Complaint is OVERRULED. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  May 6, 2024                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 