 Case Number:  BC591743    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  47 PALOS VERDES ENGINEERING CORPORATION V. RUBEN
GUTIERREZ, ET AL, No. BC591743
TENTATIVE RULING ON DEFENDANT’S MOTION IN LIMINE NO. 1
Defendants’ MIL # 1 – seeking an order to preclude any
damage evidence, including expert testimony, based only on speculation and
extrapolation.   
TENTATIVE RULING:  DENIED.  
Defendants make two primary arguments for an order excluding
testimony from experts or other witnesses improperly based upon extrapolation
or speculation.  First, they assert the
tautology that testimony based solely on speculation or improper extrapolation
is inadmissible.  Because the motion
fails to identify specific damage calculations or opinions and describe the underlying
facts or records and/or statistical methods used to reach those calculations or
opinions, any order granting such a motion would amount to a “ruling[ ] which
would merely be declaratory of existing law or would not provide any meaningful
guidance for the parties or the witnesses.” 
(Kelly v. New West Federal Savings (1996) 49 Cal. App. 4th
659, 670.)  For a motion in limine order
to be of any force, it must carve out identifiable evidence or testimony that
is to be excluded, usually by reference to an expert’s deposition testimony or
report or specific documents revealed during discovery.  The motion before the Court lacks such a
foundation, so the Court cannot grant any relief based on this argument. 
Defendants’ second argument – raised for the first time in
reply – is that Plaintiff has not disclosed the details of its damage
calculations in discovery and, thus, should be precluded from doing so at
trial.  (Reply, p. 4 [“Because there
could be no excuse for failing to disclose that information in multiple
discovery responses, . . . [the motion] should be granted”].)  But the record established by Defendants does
not meet the standard for excluding evidence as a discovery sanction.  In general, a party who has responded to
formal written discovery has no affirmative duty to supplement its responses
when new information comes into its possession. 
(Biles v. Exxon Mobil Corp. (2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 1315,
1318–1319, 1328.)  “[A]bsent unusual
circumstances, such as repeated and egregious discovery abuses,” courts will
not impose an evidentiary sanction for a failure to disclose unless there has
been a “willful” failure to disclose.  (Id.,
at p. 1327.)  Here, there has been no
showing that Plaintiff’s discovery responses were willfully false or
incomplete.  (Id., at p.
1323-1324.)  Nor have Defendants pointed
to any violation of a court order directing Plaintiffs to provide further
answers to Defendants’ discovery.  
Accordingly, Defendants’ attacks on Plaintiff’s deposition
testimony – even if it is incomplete or unsupported by provable facts – do not
justify exclusion of all evidence of Plaintiff’s damage calculations.  This is particularly true here where Plaintiff
designated a damages expert in June 2022, and Defendants acknowledge in their
second motion in limine that Plaintiff has “repeatedly deferred to Mr. Clark
and indicated that [its damages calculations] would be provided through Mr.
Clark’s deposition testimony.” 
(Defendants’ MIL No. 2, p. 7.) 
Whether Defendants timely sought this expert deposition and whether
Plaintiff has “unreasonably” failed to produce Mr. Clark for deposition are the
subjects of that recently filed motion in limine which has not been fully
briefed.        
 