  Case Number:  20STCV42104    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  47 Ozelia Harris v. Pomona Unified School
District, et al., Case No. 20STCV42104
 
TENTATIVE
RULINGS ON MOTIONS IN LIMINE
 
Plaintiff’s
MIL #1:      Withdrawn.
 
Plaintiff’s
MIL #2:      seeking exclusion of all references to Defendants’ insurance or
lack of insurance or as to how Defendants will pay any compensation to
Plaintiff
 
TENTATIVE
RULING:  GRANTED.
 
Plaintiff’s
MIL #3:      seeking exclusion of all references to alleged potential effects
of a verdict for Plaintiff.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING:  GRANTED.  
 
While Plaintiff’s motion is broad, evidence of any potential
effects of a verdict on Defendants would be irrelevant and potentially excluded
under Evidence Code § 352.  
 
Plaintiff’s
MIL #4:      Withdrawn.
 
Plaintiff’s
MIL #5:      seeking exclusion of written warnings given in 2012 and 2015 and
testimony about those warnings and the underlying circumstance.    
 
TENTATIVE
RULING:  GRANTED.  
 
Defendants oppose the motion on two grounds.  First, they contend that there is
insufficient information about what evidence is to be excluded, including that
the warnings themselves are not attached. 
The Court agrees that the warnings should have been submitted with the
motion but finds that the motion adequately describes the warnings and the
timing and context in which they were issued. 
Second, Defendants argue that the warnings may be admissible to show
either lack of discriminatory animus or Plaintiff’s incompetent job
performance.  The Court concludes that
the warnings at issue are remote in time and do not deal with the kind of
retaliation or harassment at issue in this case and, thus, have little to no
probative value, unless they are among the “multiple instances of policy
violations and substandard performance” that were referred to in the October 5,
2020 written warning.  If they are not
listed in that warning, the 2012 and 2016 warnings must be excluded as
irrelevant under Evidence Code § 350 and unduly prejudicial under Evidence Code
§ 352.  
 
Plaintiff’s
MIL #6:      seeking exclusion of two automobile accidents that occurred more
than five years ago and the actions Plaintiff filed against the at-fault
parties.      
 
TENTATIVE
RULING:  DENIED.  
 
Defendants oppose the motion arguing that there is
insufficient information about what evidence is to be excluded.  The Court agrees that Platiniff should
provide additional information about the dates of the accidents and the nature
of her injuries, because these facts may be relevant to Plaintiff’s prayer in
this case for emotional distress. 
Accordingly, on this record, the Court cannot grant the motion.  
 
Plaintiff’s MIL #7: 
    seeking exclusion of evidence
or comments about any attorney’s fees Plaintiff may recover in this action.    
 
TENTATIVE RULING: 
GRANTED.  
 
Plaintiff’s MIL #8: 
    seeking exclusion of evidence
or comments that counsel for Plaintiff is related to any party or witness.      
 
TENTATIVE RULING: 
GRANTED.  
 
Plaintiff’s MIL #9: 
    seeking exclusion of evidence
or comments regarding the parties’ financial condition, including Defendant’s
ability to pay any judgment.        
 
TENTATIVE RULING: 
GRANTED.  
 
Plaintiff’s MIL #10: 
  seeking exclusion of evidence or argument
about certain statements described in the motion.       
 
TENTATIVE RULING:  DENIED,
without prejudice to asserting an objection at trial.  
 
The Court lacks sufficient information to determine the
admissibility of the statements.
 
Plaintiff’s MIL #11: 
  seeking exclusion of evidence or argument
about Plaintiff’s decision not to call certain witnesses at trial.      
 
TENTATIVE RULING:  DENIED.  
 
Defendants’ MIL #1: 
            seeking exclusion of
evidence or argument about complaints made by Plaintiff before and after the
January through October 2022 period described in her administrative complaint.     
 
TENTATIVE RULINGS:  GRANTED
in part and DENIED in part.  
 
The parties agree that pre-2020 complaints should not be
admitted at trial, so the Court adopts that view as well. With respect to
subsequent complaints, the Court agrees with Defendant that, unless the conduct
at issue in the recent complaints is “like or related” to the retaliation and
harassment claims asserted in Plaintiff’s administrative complaint to the
DFEH/DCR, they are not actionable in this lawsuit.  (Brown v. City of Sacramento (2019) 37
Cal. App. 5th 587, 600; Okoli v. Lockheed Technical Operations Co. (1995)
36 Cal. App. 4th 1607, 1613-1615.) 
Even if the more recent conduct attacked in the complaints is not
actionable, however, it may be admissible for some other purpose.  Because the Court lacks sufficient
information about those complaints, which have not been submitted to the Court
in support of or opposition to the motion in limine, it cannot determine
whether the recent conduct is “like or related” to the alleged misconduct in
the administrative charge or whether it is admissible for some other purpose.
As a result, the Court denies the motion in limine as to those complaints and
the underlying conduct they challenge, without prejudice to objections being
raised at trial.
 
The Court directs Plaintiff to provide an offer of proof
with respect to each complaint she seeks to admit at trial so as to provide an
opportunity for argument about and ruling on its admissibility, before any such
complaint is raised at trial.    
 
Defendants’ MIL #2:              seeking
exclusion of all evidence or argument related to events that occurred after
October 6, 2020.     
 
TENTATIVE RULINGS:  DENIED.

 
The Court agrees with Defendant that, unless post-October 6,
2020 conduct is “like or related” to the retaliation and harassment claims
asserted in Plaintiff’s administrative complaint to the DFEH/DCR, they are not
actionable in this lawsuit.  (Brown v.
City of Sacramento (2019) 37 Cal. App. 5th 587, 600; Okoli v. Lockheed
Technical Operations Co. (1995) 36 Cal. App. 4th 1607,
1613-1615.)  Even if the more recent
conduct is not actionable, however, it may be admissible for some other
purpose.  Because the Court lacks
sufficient information about post-October 6, 2020 conduct at issue, it cannot
determine whether the recent conduct is “like or related” to the alleged
misconduct in the administrative charge or whether it is admissible for some
other purpose. As a result, the Court denies the motion in limine as to post-October
6, 2020 conduct, without prejudice to objections being raised at trial.  
 
The Court directs Plaintiff to provide an offer of proof
with respect to any evidence of post-October 6, 2020 conduct she seeks to admit
at trial so as to provide an opportunity for
argument about and ruling on its admissibility, before any such conduct is
raised at trial.    
 
Defendants’ MIL #3: 
            seeking exclusion from
trial of all witnesses that were not disclosed during discovery.       
 
RULING:  DENIED.  
 
In general, a party who has responded to formal written
discovery has no affirmative duty to supplement its responses when new
information comes into its possession.  (Biles
v. Exxon Mobil Corp. (2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1318–1319, 1328.)  “[A]bsent unusual circumstances, such as
repeated and egregious discovery abuses,” courts will not impose an evidentiary
sanction for a failure to disclose unless there has been a “willful” failure to
disclose.  (Id., at p. 1327.)  Here, there has been no showing that Plaintiff’s
discovery responses were willfully false or incomplete.  (Id., at p. 1323-1324.)  Nor have Defendants pointed to any violation
of a court order directing Plaintiffs to provide further answers to Defendants’
discovery.  
 
Defendants have made no effort to show that any
non-disclosure by Plaintiff was willful or that the failure to disclose
violated a court order.  Very early in
the case, Plaintiff responded to a form interrogatory to disclose witnesses
that her investigation was ongoing and that she would supplement “as Plaintiff
deems appropriate.”  (Exh. 3, p. 5.)  Defendants did not move to compel a
substantive response.  In response to a
Supplemental Interrogatory served by Defendants on March 31, 2023, Plaintiff
served objections on the ground that discovery was closed.  (Exh. 4-5.) 
Again, Defendants made no motion to compel.  Defense counsel also states that his office
tried to serve Plaintiff’s husband, Stephen Harris, with a deposition subpoena,
but was “informed and believe[s]) that Mr. Harris evaded service.  This is not competent evidence of
evasion.  On this record, there is no
basis for an exclusion order, because the evidence submitted fails to establish
a willful failure to disclose on Plaintiff’s part. 
 
Defendants’ MIL #4: 
            seeking exclusion of Plaintiff’s
medical providers as trial witnesses on the grounds that they were neither disclosed
during discovery, nor designated as experts.       
 
RULING:  DENIED, as
moot.  
 
The motion seeks to exclude Dr. Zuniga, Dr. Qasi, PMK of
Aspen Family Medicine, and PMK of San Antonio Regional Hospital.  As none of these individuals or designees are
listed on the final joint witness list, the motion is denied as moot.
 
Defendants’ MIL #5: 
            seeking exclusion of
evidence or argument about internal complaints made after the filing of
Plaintiff’s DFEH Complaint on October 30, 2020.     
 
TENTATIVE RULINGS: 
GRANTED in part and DENIED in part. 

 
As explained above, unless Plaintiff’s recent complaint
involve alleged misconduct that is “like or related” to the retaliation and
harassment claims asserted in Plaintiff’s administrative complaint to the
DFEH/DCR, they are not actionable in this lawsuit.  (Brown v. City of Sacramento (2019) 37
Cal. App. 5th 587, 600; Okoli v. Lockheed Technical Operations Co. (1995)
36 Cal. App. 4th 1607, 1613-1615.) 
Even if the more recent conduct attacked in the complaints is not
actionable, however, it may be admissible for some other purpose.  Based on the sparse record provided by the
parties (who have not submitted the relevant complaints), the Court concludes
that a complaint about race discrimination that Defendants says was filed on February
9, 2024 is not “like or related” to Plaintiff’s complaints that she was
harassed because of her perceived disability and retaliated against because of
her medical leave.  As to the remaining
complaints, the Court lacks sufficient information to determine whether the alleged
misconduct in those complaints is “like or related” to the alleged misconduct
in the administrative charge or whether it is admissible for some other
purpose. As a result, the Court grants the motion as the February 9, 2024
complaint of race discrimination and otherwise denies the motion in limine,
without prejudice to objections being raised at trial.
 
The Court directs Plaintiff to provide an offer of proof
with respect to each complaint she seeks to admit at trial so as to provide an
opportunity for argument about and ruling on its admissibility, before any such
complaint is raised at trial.    
   