  Case Number:  19STCV31058    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendants Medicali
Holdings Inc., Outleaf, and Charles Weinberger’s Motion to Strike and/or Tax
Memorandum of Costs 
Defendants
Medicali Holdings Inc, a California corporation, Medicali Holdings Inc., a
Nevada corporation, Outleaf, and Charles Weinberger move to strike or tax the
memorandum of costs on appeal filed by plaintiff Gabriel Flores on January 2,
2024.  Plaintiff’s memorandum of costs
claims $775 in filing fees, $1,650 for the reporter’s transcript, and $49.50
for service of papers.  Plaintiff cannot
recover these costs because he did not incur them for the appeal on which he
prevailed.  
Both
sides appealed orders in this case.  The
Court of Appeal issued two remittiturs.  First,
on March 9, 2023, the Court of Appeal issued a remittitur “[a]s to the notice
of appeal filed January 10, 2022, by Appellant Gabriel Flores.”  The remittitur did not state that any party was
entitled to costs on appeal.  Defendants
claimed costs on that appeal.  Plaintiff
moved to strike those costs.  This court
found defendants were the prevailing parties and denied plaintiff’s motion.
The
Court of Appeal issued a second remittitur on November 22, 2023.  That remittitur was for the Court of Appeal’s
opinion on defendant Medicali Holdings, Inc.’s appeal of the order denying its
motion for attorney fees.  The remittitur
states, “Respondent shall recover costs on appeal.”  Plaintiff was the respondent to that
appeal.  But he did not appear or file a
respondent’s brief.  Plaintiff does not
dispute that he incurred no costs on that appeal.  All costs he claims were incurred for his
unsuccessful appeal. 
Plaintiff
argues it would not make sense for the remittitur to state he “shall recover
costs on appeal” if he could not recover anything.  As plaintiff notes, the record of the appeal
establishes he did not appear and therefore did not incur any costs on
Medicali’s unsuccessful appeal.  Though
the Court of Appeal may have known that fact, it does not mean the remittitur
on defendant’s appeal implicitly awarded plaintiff costs for his unsuccessful
appeal.  “If a remittitur is ambiguous the
trial court can interpret it in light of the law and the appellate opinion to
determine its duties.”  (People v.
Dutra (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 1359, 1368.) 
A remittitur includes a judgment awarding costs, which generally answers
only one question: which parties, if any, can recover their costs?  (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule
8.278(b).)  The second remittitur does
not identify which costs are recoverable.  The answer to that question is a matter of
factfinding for the trial court.  
A
party claiming costs on appeal must “serve and file in the superior court a
verified memorandum of costs under rule 3.1700.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 8.278(c)(1).)  “The memorandum of costs must be verified by
a statement of the party, attorney, or agent that to the best of his or her
knowledge the items of cost are correct and were necessarily incurred in the
case.”  (Rule 3.1700(a)(1).)  “If items on their face appear to be proper charges, the verified
memorandum of costs is prima facie evidence of their propriety, and the burden
is on the party seeking to tax costs to show they were not reasonable or
necessary.  ‘On the other hand, if items
are properly objected to, they are put in issue and the burden of proof is on
the party claiming them as costs.’ 
[Citation.]  However, whether a
cost item was reasonably necessary is still a question of fact to be decided by
the trial court.”  (Jones v. Dumrichob
(1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1258, 1266.)
The Court of Appeal’s second remittitur thus
stated only who was entitled to costs on the appeal by defendant/appellant
Medicali Holdings, Inc. It stated plaintiff/respondent shall recover his costs
on that appeal.  Once plaintiff filed his
verified memorandum of costs on appeal, defendants had 15 days to move to
strike it.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1700(b)(1).)  By filing this motion,
defendants put at issue which costs (or the amount of costs) plaintiff may recover.  This trial court must now resolve that
question of fact.  As the factfinder,
this court concludes plaintiff did not incur any costs for the appeal on which
the Court of Appeal permitted him to recover costs.  Plaintiff therefore cannot recover the costs
he claims. 
Disposition
Defendants
Medicali Holdings Inc, a California corporation, Medicali Holdings Inc., a
Nevada corporation, Outleaf, and Charles Weinberger’s motion to strike
plaintiff Gabriel Flores’s memorandum of costs is granted.  
The
court hereby strikes the entire memorandum of costs on appeal plaintiff
filed on January 2, 2024.  Plaintiff
Gabriel Flores shall recover no costs on appeal from defendants.
 
             