 Case Number:  23STCV02905    Hearing Date:   December 16, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
February 9, 2023, Plaintiff Betsy Salazar (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Riley Stack (“Stack”), Olayemi Olagoke, Oleayeme Olagoke;
Uber Technologies, Inc., Raiser-CA LLC, Rasier LLC, and Does 1-50 for
negligence.  Plaintiff alleged that on or
about March 6, 2021, Defendants negligently entrusted, managed, maintained,
drove, and operated their vehicle, causing it to collide with Plaintiff’s
vehicle, injuring Plaintiff. 
On
July 15, 2024, Defendants Uber Technologies, Inc., Rasier-CA LLC, and Rasier
LLC (collectively, “Uber”) filed an answer. 
On
July 17, 2024, Defendant Olayemi Olagoke (“Olagoke”)
filed an answer. 
On
August 20, 2024, Uber filed a motion to compel Plaintiff to arbitrate her
claims against Uber and for a stay pending arbitration. The motion was set for
hearing on September 23, 2024. On August 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition. 
On
September 23, 2024, Uber’ counsel filed a declaration stating that Plaintiff’s
counsel failed to serve Plaintiff’s opposition on Uber’ counsel.  Uber’s counsel also asserted that the proof of
service on Plaintiff’s opposition was defective.  The Court ordered Plaintiff to serve the
opposition on Defendants and continued the hearing to November 18, 2024 to give
Uber an opportunity to file a reply. 
On
November 7, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel filed a declaration stating that he
served Plaintiff’s opposition on Defendants’ counsel on September 23,
2024.  On November 8, 2024, Uber filed a
reply.  On November 12, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a sur-reply, which the Court has not considered.  The Court continued the hearing to December
16, 2024. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for May 28, 2025. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Uber
asks the Court to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims and to stay the case
pending arbitration. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   The California Arbitration Act (“CAA”) 
“A
written agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a
controversy thereafter arising is valid, enforceable, and irrevocable, save
upon such grounds as exist for the rescission of any contract.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 provides in part: 
“On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement
alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and
that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court
shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if
it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it
determines that: 
“(a) The right to compel arbitration has been waived
by the petitioner; or 
“(b) Grounds exist for rescission of the agreement. 
“(c) A party to the
arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action or special
proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of
related transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a
common issue of law or fact. For purposes of this section, a pending court
action or special proceeding includes an action or proceeding initiated by the
party refusing to arbitrate after the petition to compel arbitration has been
filed, but on or before the date of the hearing on the petition. This
subdivision shall not be applicable to an agreement to arbitrate disputes
as to the professional negligence of a health care provider made pursuant to
Section 1295. 
* * *
“If the court determines that a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy exists, an order to arbitrate that controversy may not
be refused on the ground that the petitioner’s contentions lack substantive
merit. 
“If the court determines that there are other issues
between the petitioner and the respondent which are not subject to arbitration
and which are the subject of a pending action or special proceeding between the
petitioner and the respondent and that a determination of such issues may make
the arbitration unnecessary, the court may delay its order to arbitrate until
the determination of such other issues or until such earlier time as the court
specifies. 
“If the court determines that a party to the
arbitration is also a party to litigation in a pending court action or special
proceeding with a third party as set forth under subdivision (c), the court (1)
may refuse to enforce the arbitration agreement and may order intervention or
joinder of all parties in a single action or special proceeding; (2) may order
intervention or joinder as to all or only certain issues; (3) may order
arbitration among the parties who have agreed to arbitration and stay the pending
court action or special proceeding pending the outcome of the arbitration
proceeding; or (4) may stay arbitration pending the outcome of the court action
or special proceeding.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2,
subds. (a), (b), (c) & last 3 paragraphs.) 
B.   Federal Arbitration Act (FAA) preemption of the CAA 
“In
accordance with choice-of-law principles, the parties may limit the trial
court's authority to stay or deny arbitration under the CAA by adopting the
more restrictive procedural provisions of the FAA.” (Victrola 89, LLC v.
Jaman Properties 8 LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 345 (Victrola),
quoting Valencia v. Smyth (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 153, 157 (Valencia).)  “ ‘[T]he FAA’s procedural provisions (9
U.S.C. §§ 3, 4, 10, 11) do not apply unless the contract contains a
choice-of-law clause expressly incorporating them.’ ” (Ibid., quoting Valencia,
supra, 185 Cal.App.4th at p. 174, original emphasis.) “ ‘[T]he question
is not whether the parties adopted the CAA’s procedural provisions: The state’s
procedural statutes ([Code Civ. Proc.,] §§ 1281.2, 1290.2) apply by default
because Congress intended the comparable FAA sections (9 U.S.C. §§ 3, 4, 10,
11) to apply in federal court. The question, therefore, is whether the parties
expressly incorporated the FAA’s procedural provisions into their agreements.’ ”
(Ibid., quoting Valencia, supra, 185 Cal.App.4th at p.
177; see also Cronus Investments, Inc. v. Concierge Services (2005) 35
Cal.4th 376, 387, 394 [“Our opinion does not preclude parties to an arbitration
agreement to expressly designate that any arbitration proceeding should move
forward under the FAA's procedural provisions rather than under state
procedural law” (italics omitted)].) 
“By
its terms, the FAA ‘provides for the enforcement of arbitration provisions in
any contract evidencing a transaction involving interstate commerce.’ ” (Victrola,
supra, 46 Cal.App.5th at p. 346, quoting Mount Diablo Medical Center
v. Health Net of California, Inc. (2002) 101 Cal.App.4th 711, 717.)  “But agreements to have such enforcement
governed by state rules are enforceable.” 
(Ibid., citing Volt Info. Sciences v. Leland Stanford Jr. U.
(1989) 489 U.S. 468, 479.) 
DISCUSSION         
A.   Uber’s motion 
1.    Uber’s contentions 
Uber
argues that (1) Plaintiff agreed to arbitrate her claims against Uber by
accepting Uber’s terms of use, which require arbitration of disputes, (2) Plaintiff
agreed that the FAA would govern the interpretation and enforcement of the arbitration
agreement, (3) Plaintiff was using Uber’s services at the time of the accident,
(4) Plaintiff’s allegations are within the scope of the arbitration agreement,
and (5) only an arbitrator can resolve any dispute about whether Plaintiff’s claims
are subject to arbitration under the arbitration agreement. 
2.    Uber’s evidence 
a.    Evidence that Plaintiff accepted Uber’s terms of use,
including arbitration agreements 
Plaintiff
registered for a Uber account on June 30, 2016. 
The terms of use that applied on June 30, 2016 went into effect on
January 2, 2016.  These terms of use
included an arbitration agreement. 
(Chenshan Yu declaration (“Yu dec.”) ¶ 8 & exh. B.) 
On
November 15, 2016, Uber sent plaintiff an email stating that Uber had updated
its terms of use and Plaintiff’s continued use of the of the Uber apps would
constitute assent to the updated terms of use. 
(Yu dec. ¶¶ 9-10.)  The terms of
use in effect on November 21, 2016 included an arbitration agreement. (Yu dec.
¶ 11 & exh. E.) 
On
January 23, 2021, December 30, 2021, March 25, 2022, July 18, 2022, July 25,
2022, October 12, 2022, October 15, 2022, January 21, 2023, February 1, 2023,
March 4, 2023 and March 23, 2023, Plaintiff was presented with an in-app
blocking pop-up screen with the header “We’ve updated our terms.” (Yu dec. ¶
12.)  It also stated in large type, “We
encourage you to read our Updated Terms in full” and under that message had the
phrases “Terms of Use” and “Privacy Notice,” which were displayed underlined
and in bright blue text, all of which set the text apart from other text on the
screen and indicated hyperlinks. (Yu dec. ¶ 12.) When a user clicked either
hyperlink, the Terms of Use or Privacy Notice that were published on Uber’s
website were displayed.  (Yu dec. ¶
12.)  The hyperlink was linked to the
following address:
https://www.uber.com/legal/document/?name=general-terms-of-use. The in-app
blocking pop-up screen stated: “By checking the box, I have reviewed and agreed
to the Terms of Use and acknowledge the Privacy Notice.” (Yu dec. ¶ 12.)  
The
in-app blocking pop-up screen precluded the use of the Uber app unless and
until a user clicked the checkbox on the screen and clicked the large “Confirm”
button at the bottom of the screen.  (Yu dec. ¶ 13.)  
On
January 23, 2021, December 30, 2021, March 25, 2022, July 18, 2022, July 25,
2022, October 12, 2022, October 15, 2022, January 21, 2023, February 1, 2023,
March 4, 2023 and March 23, 2023, Plaintiff accessed her Uber app, was
presented with the in-app blocking pop-up screen regarding the January 18,
2021, December 16, 2021, April 4, 2022, August 16, 2022 and January 17, 2023 terms
of use, clicked the checkbox, and tapped the “Confirm” button.  (Yu dec. ¶ 15.) 
The
terms of use in effect on January 18, 2021, December 16, 2021, April 4, 2022,
August 16, 2022 and January 17, 2023 contain an arbitration agreement.  (Yu dec. ¶ 16 & exh. G.) 
Following
Plaintiff’s consent to Uber’s terms of use, Plaintiff continued to use the Uber
app and access Uber’s services. (Yu dec. ¶ 17 & exh. H.) 
b.    The arbitration agreements
i.      January 2, 2016 terms of use 
In a
section titled “ARBITRATION RULES AND GOVERNING LAW,” the January 2, 2016 terms
of use provided: 
“The arbitration will be administered by the American
Arbitration Association ("AAA") in accordance with the Commercial
Arbitration Rules and the Supplementary Procedures for Consumer Related
Disputes (the "AAA Rules") then in effect, except as modified by this
"Dispute Resolution" section. (The AAA Rules are available at
www.adr.org/arb med or by calling the AAA at 1-800-778-7879.) The Federal
Arbitration Act will govern the interpretation and enforcement of this Section.”  (Yu dec. exh. G.) 
ii.             
November
21, 2016 terms of use 
In a
section titled “Rules and Governing Law,” the November 21, 2016 terms of use
provided in part: 
“The parties agree that the
arbitrator (‘Arbitrator’), and not any federal, state, or local court or
agency, shall have exclusive authority to resolve any disputes relating to the interpretation,
applicability, enforceability or formation of this Arbitration Agreement,
including any claim that all or part of this Arbitration Agreement is void or
voidable.  The Arbitrator shall also be
responsible for determining all threshold arbitrability issues, including issues
relating to whether the Terms are unconscionable or illusory or any defense to
arbitration, including waiver, delay, laches, or estoppel. 
“Notwithstanding any choice of law or other provision
in the Terms, the parties agree and acknowledge that this Arbitration Agreement
evidences a transaction involving interstate commerce and that the Federal
Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C. § 1 et seq. (“FAA”), will govern its interpretation
and enforcement and proceedings pursuant thereto.  It is the intent of the parties that the FAA
and AAA Rules shall preempt all state laws to the fullest extent permitted by
law.  If the FAA and AAA Rules are found
to not apply to any issue that arises under this Arbitration Agreement or the
enforcement thereof, then that issue shall be resolved under the laws of the
State of California.”  (Yu dec. exh. G.) 
iii.           
January
18, 2021 terms of use 
In a
section titled “Rules and Governing Law,” the January 18, 2021 terms of use
provided: 
“The parties agree that the arbitrator (‘Arbitrator’),
and not any federal, state, or local court or agency, shall have exclusive
authority to resolve any disputes relating to the interpretation,
applicability, enforceability or formation of this Arbitration Agreement,
including any claim that all or part of this Arbitration Agreement is void or
voidable.  The Arbitrator shall also be
responsible for determining all threshold arbitrability issues, including
issues relating to whether the Terms are unconscionable or illusory or any
defense to arbitration, including waiver, delay, laches, or estoppel.  If there is a dispute about whether this
Arbitration Agreement can be enforced or applies to a dispute, you and Uber
agree that the arbitrator will decide that issue.         
“Notwithstanding any choice of law or other provision
in the Terms, the parties agree and acknowledge that this Arbitration Agreement
evidences a transaction involving interstate commerce and that the Federal
Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C. § 1 et seq. (“FAA”), will govern its interpretation
and enforcement and proceedings pursuant thereto.  It is the intent of the parties to be bound
by the provisions of the FAA for all purposes, including, but not limited to,
interpretation, implementation, enforcement, and administration of this
Arbitration Agreement, and that the FAA and AAA Rules shall preempt all state
laws to the fullest extent permitted by law. 
If the FAA and AAA Rules are found to not apply to any issue regarding
the interpretation or enforcement of this Arbitration Agreement, then that
issue shall be resolved under the laws of the state where you reside when you
accept these Terms. 
“Any dispute, claim, or controversy arising out of or
relating to incidents or accidents resulting in personal injury (including but
not limited to sexual assault or harassment claims) that you allege occurred in
connection with your use of the Services, whether before or after the date you
agreed to the Terms, shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the
laws of the state in which the incident or accident occurred.”  (Yu dec. exh. G.) 
iv.           
December
16, 2021, April 4, 2022, August 16, 2022, and January 17, 2023 terms of use 
In a
section titled “Delegation Clause,” the December 16, 2021, April 4, 2022,
August 16, 2022, and January 17, 2023 terms of use provided in part: 
“Only an arbitrator, and not any federal, state, or
local court or agency, shall have exclusive authority to resolve any disputes
relating to the interpretation, applicability, enforceability, or formation of
this Arbitration Agreement, including without limitation any claim that all or
any part of this Arbitration Agreement is void or voidable.  An arbitrator shall also have exclusive
authority to resolve all threshold arbitrability issues, including issues
relating to whether the Terms are applicable, unconscionable, or illusory or
any defense to arbitration, including without limitation waiver, delay, laches,
or estoppel. . . .” 
In a
section titled “Rules and Governing Law,” the December 16, 2021, April 4, 2022,
August 16, 2022, and January 17, 2023 terms of use provided: 
“Notwithstanding any choice of law or other provision
in these Terms, the parties agree and acknowledge that this Arbitration
Agreement evidences a transaction involving interstate commerce and that the
Federal Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C. § 1 et seq. ('FAA'), will govern its
interpretation and enforcement and proceedings pursuant thereto.  It is the intent of the parties to be bound
by the provisions of the FAA for all purposes, including, but not limited to,
interpretation, implementation, enforcement, and administration of this
Arbitration Agreement, and that the FAA and the applicable arbitration
provider’s rules shall preempt all state laws to the fullest extent permitted
by law.  [In January 17, 2023 terms of
use only: “All statutes of limitation that would otherwise be applicable will
apply to any arbitration proceeding.”]  If
the FAA and applicable arbitration provider’s rules are found to not apply to
any issue regarding the interpretation or enforcement of this Arbitration
Agreement, then that issue shall be resolved under the laws of the state where
you reside when you accept these Terms. 
“Any dispute, claim, or controversy arising out of or
relating to incidents or accidents resulting in personal injury (including but
not limited to sexual assault or harassment claims) that you allege occurred in
connection with your use of the Services, whether before or after the date you
agreed to the Terms, shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the
laws of the state in which the incident or accident occurred.”  (Yu dec. exh. G.) 
B.   Plaintiff’s opposition 
Plaintiff
asserts that, when the accident occurred, she was a passenger in Olagoke’s vehicle, Olagoke was
logged onto Uber’s application, and Olagoke was working as Uber’s agent. 
However,
Plaintiff argues the case is not yet “ripe” for arbitration because (1)
Plaintiff does not know if Olagoke “had his own personal policy of automobile
liability insurance at the time of this accident, or if [Olagoke] was relying [on
Uber] to establish his financial responsibility” (Opposition p. 2) and (2)
assuming Olagoke had his own personal automobile liability insurance, Plaintiff
does not know if the insurer will provide coverage for the accident.  Plaintiff has provided no legal support for
these argument and the Court considers the arguments waived. 
Plaintiff
also argues that Stack – who drove the
other car involved in the accident – is not a party to the arbitration
agreement.  Therefore, Plaintiff
contends, enforcing the arbitration agreement between Plaintiff and Uber would
create “a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact for
purposes of Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2, subdivision (c), permitting
the Court to deny Uber’s arbitration request. 
In
addition, Plaintiff argues that she never agreed to arbitrate her claims
against Uber.  She contends that Uber’s
terms of service “are actually several combined, run-on documents,” “[t]here is
no indicia to call its attention to the reader,” “[t]here is no place for
signature or initials of the person who would be bound by this document,” and
“[t]he Terms of Service do not highlight the existence of an obligation to
arbitrate.”  (Opposition p. 4 & Salazar
declaration.) 
C.   Uber’s reply 
In
its reply, Uber argues that the Court may not apply Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.2 because the parties agreed that the FAA governed their arbitration agreement and preempted state law “to the
fullest extent permitted by law.”  According to
Uber, “the arbitration agreement entered into by Plaintiff explicitly states: ‘the
Federal Arbitration Act will govern the interpretation and enforcement of [the
arbitration provision].’ ” (Reply p. 2, quoting Yu Decl., Ex. G.) 
Uber
also argues that it has presented prima facie evidence that Plaintiff and Uber entered
into an arbitration agreement and Plaintiff has not carried her burden of refuting
this evidence. 
D.   Analysis 
Uber
contends that Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 does not apply because the
arbitration agreements stated that the FAA would govern interpretation and
enforcement of the agreements. 
The
parties have not addressed the provision in the arbitration agreements (beginning
in January 18, 2021) that states: “Any dispute, claim, or controversy arising
out of or relating to incidents or accidents resulting in personal injury . . .
that you allege occurred in connection with your use of the Services, whether
before or after the date you agreed to the Terms, shall be governed by and
construed in accordance with the laws of the state in which the incident or
accident occurred.”  (Yu dec. exh. G.) 
Based
on the reasoning of Victrola, supra, 46
Cal.App.5th 337, the Court concludes that the arbitration agreements’
reference to “enforcement” under the FAA
requires the court to consider Uber’s motion to compel arbitration under the
FAA.  (See Victrola, supra,
46 Cal.App.5th at p. 348.)  The provision
in the arbitration agreements (beginning in January 18, 2021) stating that personal
injury claims will be “governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of
the state in which the incident or accident occurred” does not displace the
parties’ agreement to proceed under the procedural provisions of the FAA.  Therefore, the Court will not apply Code of
Civil Procedure section 1281.2, subdivision (c). 
Last,
the Court finds that Uber has shown that Plaintiff agreed to arbitration based
on the evidence discussed above. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS the motion to compel arbitration and to stay the action filed by
Defendants Uber Technologies, Inc.,
Rasier-CA LLC, and Rasier LLC.  The Court
orders Plaintiff Betsy Salazar to arbitrate her claims against Defendants Uber Technologies, Inc., Rasier-CA LLC, and
Rasier LLC.  The Court stays Plaintiff
Betsy Salazar’s action against Defendants Uber Technologies, Inc., Rasier-CA
LLC, and Rasier LLC pending the outcome of arbitration. 
The
Court sets a status conference re: arbitration on June 16, 2025 at 8:30 a.m. in
Department 28 of the Spring Street Courthouse. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.