 Case Number:  23STCV17447    Hearing Date:   December 16, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
July 26, 2023, Plaintiff Alvin Pruitt (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants City of Santa Monica (“Defendant”) and Does 1-75 for motor vehicle
tort and general negligence. 
On
September 26, 2023, Defendant filed an answer. 
On
March 11, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s counsel’s motion to be relieved
as counsel. 
On
September 9, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s motion to deem admitted
matters specified in requests for admission, set one, served on Plaintiff.  The Court deemed admitted the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters
specified in the requests for admission. 
On
October 15, 2024, Defendant filed a motion for judgment on the pleadings.  The motion was set for hearing on December
16, 2024.  Plaintiff has not filed an
opposition.  On
December 9, 2024, Defendant filed a reply stating that Plaintiff had passed
away on September 29, 2024.  (A copy of
Plaintiff’s death certificate is attached to Defendant’s reply.)  One of Plaintiff’s family members informed
Defendant of Plaintiff’s death.  Defendant
does not know if Plaintiff’s family members intend to pursue Plaintiff’s case. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for January 22, 2025. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
Defendant
asks the Court to grant judgment on the pleadings. 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE 
          The Court judicially notices (1) Defendant's requests for admission (attached to Defendant's July 18, 2024 motion
for order deeming admitted truth of facts and genuineness of documents) and (2) the
Court’s September 9, 2024 order.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).) 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Judgment on the pleadings 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 438 provides in part: 
“(b) (1) A party may move for judgment on the
pleadings. 
* * *
 “(c) (1) The motion provided for in this section may
only be made on one of the following grounds: 
* * *
 “(B) If the moving party is a defendant, that either
of the following conditions exist: 
“(i) The court has no jurisdiction of the subject of
the cause of action alleged in the complaint. 
“(ii) The complaint does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action against that defendant. 
“(2) The motion provided for in this section may be
made as to either of the following: 
“(A) The entire complaint or cross-complaint or as to
any of the causes of action stated therein. 
* * *
 “(d) The grounds for motion provided for in this
section shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter
of which the court is required to take judicial notice. Where the motion is
based on a matter of which the court may take judicial notice pursuant to
Section 452 or 453 of the Evidence Code, the matter shall be specified in the
notice of motion, or in the supporting points and authorities, except as the
court may otherwise permit. 
* * *
 “(h) (1) The motion provided for in this section may
be granted with or without leave to file an amended complaint or answer, as the
case may be. 
“(2) Where a motion is granted pursuant to this
section with leave to file an amended complaint or answer, as the case may be,
then the court shall grant 30 days to the party against whom the motion was
granted to file an amended complaint or answer, as the case may be. 
“(3) If the motion is granted with respect to the
entire complaint or answer without leave to file an amended complaint or
answer, as the case may be, then judgment shall be entered forthwith in
accordance with the motion granting judgment to the moving party. . . .” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 438, subds. (b), (c), (d), (h).) 
          ‘‘A motion for judgment on the pleadings performs the same
function as a general demurrer, and [thus] attacks only defects disclosed on
the face of the pleadings or by matters that can be judicially noticed.
[Citations.]’ [Citation.]’ [Citation.]” (Pointe San Diego Residential
Community, L.P. v. Procopio, Cory, Hargreaves & Savitch, LLP (2011)
195 Cal.App.4th 265, 274.) “In reviewing the motion, [the Court] deem[s] true
all properly pleaded material facts, but not contentions, deductions, or
conclusions of fact or law, and [the court] may also consider judicially
noticed matters. [Citation.]” (Bear Creek Master Assn. v. Southern
California Investors, Inc. (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 809, 817.)  
A
motion for judgment on the pleadings “normally lies only for defects fully
disclosed on the face of the pleading under attack or by matters of which
judicial notice may be taken. 
Declarations or other extrinsic matters are improper.  Therefore, the judge hearing the motion
cannot consider discovery admissions or other evidence controverting the
pleadings.  Rather, the pleading under attack must be accepted as true.”  (L. Edmon and C. Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide:
Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 7:320, pp. 7(l)-95 to 7(l)-96.) 
B.   Negligence 
 “The elements of a negligence claim . . . are
. . . : a legal duty of care, breach of that duty, and proximate cause
resulting in injury.” (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132,
1159.) 
DISCUSSION 
Defendant
asks the Court to grant judgment on the pleadings because, based on the facts
deemed admitted in the Court’s September 9, 2024 order, Plaintiff’s complaint
does not state facts sufficient to state a cause of action against Defendant. 
“[Requests
for admission] are different from other civil discovery tools such as
depositions, interrogatories, and requests for documents. ‘Most of the other
discovery procedures are aimed primarily at assisting counsel to prepare for
trial. Requests for admissions, on the other hand, are primarily aimed at
setting at rest a triable issue so that it will not have to be tried.’ ”  (St. Mary v. Superior Court (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 762, 774-775, quoting Cembrook v. Superior Court (1961) 56
Cal.2d 423, 429.)  “[A]dmission requests
seek to eliminate the need for proof: ‘[T]he purpose of the admissions
procedure ... is to limit the triable issues and spare the parties the burden
and expense of litigating undisputed issues.’ Sometimes, the admissions
obtained will even leave the party making them vulnerable to summary judgment.”
(Id. at p. 775, quoting Hogan & Weber, 1 Cal. Civil Discovery (2d
ed. 2005) § 9.1, p. 9–2, fns. omitted.) 
“Matters that are admitted or deemed admitted through RFA discovery
devices are conclusively established in the litigation and are not subject to
being contested through contradictory evidence.”  (Ibid., citing Murillo v. Superior
Court (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 730, 736.) 
As a
result of the Court’s order granting Defendant’s motion to deem admitted
matters specified in requests for admission, the following facts are deemed
admitted and cannot be disputed for purposes of Defendant’s motion for judgment
on the pleadings: 
REQUEST
NO. 1. Defendant is not liable to Plaintiff “under any theory of recovery for
the INCIDENT.”  REQUEST
NO. 2. Plaintiff has no evidence that Defendant “acted negligently at any time
during the INCIDENT.”
REQUEST
NO. 3. Plaintiff has no evidence that an employee of Defendant “acted
negligently at any time during the INCIDENT.”
REQUEST
NO. 4. Defendant “acted reasonably at all times during the INCIDENT.”
REQUEST
NO. 5. Defendant “acted with due care at all times during the INCIDENT.”
REQUEST
NO. 6. "[Defendant’s] conduct during the INCIDENT was not a substantial factor in
causing any harm that [Plaintiff] claim[s] as a result of the INCIDENT.” 
In
light of the admissions, Plaintiff (and any successor-in-interest) cannot
establish that Defendant acted negligently or that any negligence by Defendant
or its employees caused Plaintiff to suffer any harm.  The Court therefore grants Defendant’s motion
for judgment on the pleadings. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant City of Santa Monica’s motion for
judgment on the pleadings on Plaintiff Alvin Pruitt’s claims for motor
vehicle tort and general negligence with 30 days leave to amend. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.