  Case Number:  23STCV01110    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



KAREN FLORES,
                        Plaintiff,
v.
EVERBRANDS, INC., a California corporation; EVERBRANDS,
  INC., a Delaware corporation; MICHEAL FLORMAN, an individual; YON LAI, an
  individual, and DOES 1-25,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:                           23STCV01110
 Hearing Date:   5/6/24
 Trial Date:         9/3/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Allyson K. Thompson & Laura P.
  Birnbaum’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel [CRS# 1078].



 
I. Background
On March 28, 2024,
Allyson K. Thompson & Laura P. Birnbaum filed a motion to be relieved as
counsel for Defendant “EverBrands, Inc,” along with a declaration and proposed
order in support thereof.
The moving papers fail
to attach a proof of service showing proof of service on the parties or counsel
for the parties in this action. Nor is there any separately filed proof of
service in the file regarding this motion.
As of the date of this
hearing, Allyson K. Thompson & Laura P. Birnbaum’s motion is unopposed.
 
II. Motion to Be Relieved as
Counsel: CONTINUED.
A.
Legal Standard
“The
question of granting or denying an application of an attorney to withdraw as
counsel ([without client consent pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure, section]
284, subd. (2)) is one which lies within the sound discretion of the trial
court ‘having in mind whether such withdrawal might work an injustice in the
handling of the case.’” (People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 406
[internal quotations omitted].)
For
an attorney to be relieved as counsel, the attorney must comply with the
requirements of California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subdivisions (a) and
(c) to (e). These subdivisions require that an attorney file and show proof of
service of (1) a notice and motion to be relived as counsel on Judicial Council
form MC-051, (2) a declaration in support of the motion to be relived as
counsel on Judicial Council form MC-052, and (3) a proposed order in support of
the motion to be relieved as counsel on Judicial Council form MC-053.
The
court should consider whether the attorney’s “withdrawal can be accomplished
without undue prejudice to the client’s interests.” (Ramirez v. Sturdevant
(1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915.) Moreover, the motion should also be denied if
it will cause undue delay in the proceeding or cause injustice. (Mandell v.
Superior Court (1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 1, 4.)
B.
Court’s Determination
The Court CONTINUES the hearing on Allyson
K. Thompson & Laura P. Birnbaum’s motion.
First, the record fails
to reflect a proof of service reflecting service of the notice of motion and
motion, declaration, and proposed order on Everbrands CA, on Plaintiff Flores,
and on the other Defendants in this action. (See 3/28/24 Filings.) The Court
notes that although Allyson K. Thompson & Laura P. Birnbaum are currently
counsel of record for the other Defendants in this action—Michael Florman and
Yon Lai—on March 28, 2024, Allyson K. Thompson & Laura P. Birnbaum filed
motions to also be relived as counsel for Defendants Florman and Lai. The Court
needs greater clarity as to proof of service before it can grant this or any
such motion. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(d); see also Code Civ. Proc., §
1005, subd. (b) [service of notice 16 court days prior to hearing, plus
additional days based on method of service as applicable].)
Second, the record is not clear as
to whether this motion is opposed, and if so, on what ground. Defense counsel’s
own reasons for withdrawal are clear. (3/28/24 MC-052 [Everbrands], § 2
[breakdown in communication and failure to pay fees].) It may very well be that
Defendants and Plaintiff do not oppose this withdrawal of representation.
However, without proof of service, and with the trial quickly approaching, the
Court needs greater clarity as to any opposition to this motion before a final
order can be made.
 
III. Conclusion
Allyson K. Thompson
& Laura P. Birnbaum’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel [CRS# 1078] is
CONTINUED to July 9, 2024, at 8:30 AM to be heard concurrently with the motions
to be relieved as counsel as to Defendants Michael Florman and Yon Lai.
The Court suggests that
defense counsel file amended papers rather than errata notices in relation to
the motion to be relieved as counsel for Defendant Michael Florman in order to
ensure proper notice. Each Defendant must be identified by the name appearing
on the summons for that Defendant. Moreover, the Court notes that Plaintiff
should file proof of service for each of the three motions to be relieved as
counsel, as there is no documentation in the record that any of the three
motions on calendar have been properly served. 