 Case Number:  23STCV17235    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



JASON GUNNELS, DENAE JACOBSON, GABRIELA JACOBO, ANDREA JACOBO,
  ANTOINE JONES, MICHAEL MANUEL, ERIC POWERS, DAISSY SANCHEZ, RAPHAEL SCHMIDT,
  REJOICE SCHMIDT, CATHERINE BELMES, ANASTASIYA SAIKINA, TATIANA FITCH, KAPIL
  TALWALKAR, LILY WEAVER, CATHERINE YTELL, DEBORAH ALVAREZ, ARMON BEHBAHANY,
  RAYMOD BRIDGES, SANICE BRIDGES, LISA CLAYTON, AIKATERINI MARINOU, ANYELA
  NAJARRO, RICARDO NEWSOM, JESSICA ROMERO, ODILIA SIFONTES and TIFFANNE STRONG,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
EQUITY RESIDENTIAL MANAGEMENT, LLC, TRANSUNION RENTAL SCREENING SOLUTIONS,
  INC. and DOES 1 through 10,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:                           23STCV17235
 Hearing Date:   5/6/24
 Trial Date:         N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant Equity Residential
  Management, L.L.C.’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint.



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings and
Reassignment
Plaintiffs—i.e., Jason
Gunnels, Denae Jacobson, Gabriela Jacobo, Andrea Jacobo, Antoine Jones, Michael
Manuel, Eric Powers, Daissy Sanchez, Raphael Schmidt, Rejoice Schmidt,
Catherine Belmes, Anastasiya Saikina, Tatiana Fitch, Kapil Talwalkar, Lily
Weaver, Catherine Y’tell, Deborah Alvarez, Armon Behbahany, Raymod Bridges,
Sanice Bridges, Lisa Clayton, Aikaterini Marinou, Anyela Najarro, Ricardo
Newsom, Jessica Romero, Odilia Sifontes, and Tiffanne Strong—sue Defendants Equity Residential Management, L.L.C. (ERM),
TransUnion Rental Screening Solutions, Inc. (TransUnion), and Does 1 through 10
pursuant to an October 27, 2023, First Amended Complaint (FAC).
The FAC alleges claims of (1) Violations of the Investigative Consumer
Reporting Agencies Act (ICRAA), Cal. Civ. Code § 1786, et seq., (2) Invasion of
Privacy, and (3) Declaratory Relief.
The claims arise from allegations that, among other things, in the past
two years, and within the applicable statute of limitations, Plaintiffs applied
for housing in apartment complexes owned by most if not all Defendants and that
those owner Defendants used a portion of Plaintiffs’ application fees to obtain
investigative consumer reports on Plaintiffs from Defendant TransUnion without
disclosing the same to Plaintiffs, conduct which is alleged to violate
disclosure requirements in the ICRAA.
On August 4, 2023, this action was
determined to be non-complex by Department 11 at the Spring Street Courthouse.
On August 11, 2023, Department 1
reassigned this action to Department 40 at the Stanley Mosk Courthouse.
B. Motion Before the
Court
On December 28, 2023,
ERM filed a demurrer to the FAC’s invasion of privacy claim.
On April 23, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed an opposition to ERM’s demurrer.
On May 1, 2024, ERM
filed a reply to Plaintiffs’ opposition.
ERM’s demurrer is now
before the Court.
 
II. Demurrer: SUSTAINED,
with leave to amend.
A.
Legal Standard

A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747; see Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).)
To sufficiently allege a cause of
action, a complaint must allege all the ultimate facts—that is, the facts
needed to establish each element of the cause of action pleaded. (Committee
on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197,
212, superseded by statute as stated in Branick v. Downey Savings & Loan
Assn. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 235, 242.) “[E]ach evidentiary fact that might
eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v.
William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.)
In testing the sufficiency of the
cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly
pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962,
966-67.) Courts read the allegations liberally and in context. (Taylor v.
City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216,
1228, disapproved on other grounds, Jones v. Lodge at Torrey Pines Partnership
(2008) 42 Cal.4th 1158, 1162.) A demurrer, however, “does not admit
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab
Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) 
B. Analysis
1. Relevant
Law
To allege an invasion of privacy in
violation of the state constitutional right, a plaintiff “must establish each
of the following: (1) a legally protected privacy interest; (2) a reasonable
expectation of privacy in the circumstances; and (3) conduct by defendant
constituting a serious invasion of privacy.” (Hill v. National Collegiate
Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 39-40 (Hill).) Defendants may
prevail by negating any element or “by pleading and proving, as an affirmative
defense, that the invasion of privacy is justified because it substantively
furthers one or more countervailing interests. Plaintiff, in turn, may rebut a
defendant’s assertion of countervailing interests by showing there are feasible
and effective alternatives to defendant’s conduct which have a lesser impact on
privacy interests.” (Id. at p. 40.) “Actionable invasions of privacy
must be sufficiently serious in their nature, scope, and actual or potential
impact to constitute an egregious breach of the social norms underlying the
privacy right.” (Id. at p. 37.)
2. Allegations
The FAC’s second cause of action
alleges an invasion of privacy by Defendants through Defendants obtaining and
furnishing investigative consumer reports about Plaintiffs without complying
with mandatory requirements of the ICRAA relating to such reports. (FAC, ¶¶ 75-82;
see FAC, ¶¶ 32-52 [common factual allegations to all counts].)
3. Parties’
Arguments
In its demurrer, ERM argues that
the FAC insufficiently alleges an invasion of privacy claim against ERM for two
reasons. ERM’s first argument is that the FAC does not sufficiently allege a
serious invasion of privacy, which is a necessary component of this claim.
ERM’s second argument is that the FAC insufficiently alleges a reasonable
expectation of privacy in Plaintiffs’ consumer reports where all Plaintiffs
agreed to submit to such reports in their rental applications.
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue
that they have a privacy interest in their consumer reports, that the
reasonable expectation of privacy in those reports was violated when Defendants
failed to comply with ICRAA disclosure requirements, and that litigation will
reveal the seriousness of the invasion of privacy, where demurrer proceedings
are unsuited for the mixed legal and factual questions required for this
determination. Plaintiffs also add brief arguments supporting leave to amend, as
applicable.
In reply, ERM reiterates its
arguments regarding the insufficient allegations of a serious invasion of
privacy and argues that the facts needed to determine the seriousness of the
invasion of privacy are in Plaintiffs’ control. ERM also argues that California
case law holds that an invasion of privacy claim cannot be pled without
alleging that, beyond obtaining the plaintiff’s private information, the
defendant used the plaintiff’s information in a highly offensive manner. This
latter argument appears to have been raised for the first time in reply; while
the cited authority appears in the moving papers—Folgestrom—the argument
relating to use of the plaintiff’s information does not.
4. Court’s
Determination
The Court finds in favor of ERM.
The Court determines that the FAC
fails to allege an invasion of privacy that is so serious in nature as to be
highly offensive to a reasonable person. (Hill, supra, 7 Cal.4th at
pp. 39-40.)
Here, Plaintiffs allege they were
aware that their rental applications involved background checks that could
involve consumer reports. (FAC, ¶ 34.) After Plaintiffs completed their
applications, TransUnion completed background checks for ERM and disclosed the
corresponding consumer reports to ERM. (FAC, ¶¶ 34, 40.) Only a single
disclosure of each Plaintiff’s consumer report from TransUnion to ERM is
clearly alleged in the TAC. (See FAC, ¶ 40.) The FAC’s first cause of action
alleges ICRAA violations against ERM based on failure to comply with the ICRAA
when obtaining Plaintiffs’ consumer reports, i.e. through: (1) failure to
provide a means for Plaintiffs to obtain a copy of any consumer report
generated for ERM; (2) failure to provide a consent form for disclosure
(contradicted by the implicit knowledge that a consumer report may be generated
at ¶ 34); (3) failure to provide copies of consumer reports or information
regarding the consumer reporting agencies used by ERM; (4) failure to notify
Plaintiffs that the reports were ordered by ERM; (5) failure to agree to
disclose the consumer reports to Plaintiffs; and (6) on information and belief,
misrepresenting Plaintiffs’ disclosures to TransUnion. (FAC, ¶¶ 58-65 [ICRAA
violation], ¶ 75 [incorporation].)
Under these circumstances, the FAC
fails to allege a serious invasion of privacy that is highly offensive to a
reasonable person going through a rental application process with full
knowledge that submitting the application involves consent to the landlord
obtaining consumer reports regarding the applicants. The fact that there is a
basis on a given set of facts for a statutory claim under the ICRAA does not
automatically mean that there is a basis for a common law invasion of privacy
claim, as the elements of that cause of action have been defined by our courts.
As noted by the Supreme Court in Connor v. First Student, Inc. (2018) 5
Cal.5th 1026, 1032, ICRAA was “enacted to ensure that consumer reporting
agencies ‘exercise their grave responsibilities with fairness, impartiality,
and a respect for the consumer’s right to privacy.’ … The statute was, in part,
designed to protect consumers from identity theft by giving them ‘copies of any
investigative consumer reports made on them.’” However, as concluded above,
more must be alleged in order to withstand demurrer as to the common law
invasion of privacy claim, i.e., a serious invasion of privacy highly offensive
to a reasonable person.
Plaintiffs’ argument that
litigation—presumably the discovery process—will show the seriousness of the
invasion of privacy is unsupported  by
the face of the FAC, as discussed in the preceding paragraph, or by any cited
authority in the opposition.
For these reasons, the Court
SUSTAINS ERM’s demurrer, with leave to amend. 
III. Conclusion
Defendant Equity Residential
Management, L.L.C.’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint is
SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
Plaintiffs are given 14 days’ leave
to amend the Second Amended Complaint to the extent the Second Amended
Complaint has not been accepted by the Clerk. If the Second Amended Complaint
has been accepted by the Clerk, then a Third Amended Complaint may be filed in
response to this order within 14 days of this ruling. Any amendments responsive to this
order must be confined to amendment of the invasion of privacy claim
as against Equity Residential Management, L.L.C.