  Case Number:  22SMCV02805    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGDefendant Body Contour Centers, LLC d/b/a Sono Bello’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED with thirty (30) days leave to amend.Defendant Debra Stafford, M.D.’s Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED with thirty (30) days leave to amend.Defendant Debra Stafford, M.D.’s Motion to Strike Portions of Second Amended Complaint is DENIED as MOOT.Plaintiff Thomasina White may amend her complaint only as authorized by the Court’s order and may not amend the complaint to add a new party or cause of action without having obtained permission to do so. (Harris v. Wachovia Mortgage, FSB (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023.)Moving parties to give notice. REASONING“[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents].) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)Further, the court may, upon motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 [court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”]; Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 [“A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment.”]; Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768 [“When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to amend.”].) The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)First Cause of Action: Medical Battery“The essential elements of a cause of action for battery are: (1) defendant touched plaintiff, or caused plaintiff to be touched, with the intent to harm or offend plaintiff; (2) plaintiff did not consent to the touching; (3) plaintiff was harmed or offended by defendant’s conduct; and (4) a reasonable person in plaintiff’s position would have been offended by the touching.” (So v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652, 668-669.)In her Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”), Plaintiff Thomasina White (“Plaintiff”) alleges that Defendant Debra Stafford, M.D. (“Dr. Stafford”)’s actions constitute medical battery, and she claims that she had originally given consent to the procedure, but she withdrew the consent after screaming “Stop, Stop, Stop!” in anguish and pain from the surgery. (SAC, p. 5.) Plaintiff alleges that she withdrew her consent at the beginning of the surgery, and Defendant then administered over the allowed dosage of lidocaine and continued the surgery. (SAC, pp. 5-6.) Plaintiff alleges that Dr. Stafford is Defendant Body Contour Centers, LLC d/b/a Sono Bello (“Sono Bello”)’s employee or agent. (SAC, p 2.)Cobbs v. Grant (1972) 8 Cal.3d 229, 240 makes clear that medical battery “should be reserved for those circumstances when a doctor performs an operation to which the patient has not consented.” More specifically, “[w]hen the patient gives permission to perform one type of treatment and the doctor performs another, the requisite element of deliberate intent to deviate from the consent given is present,” but “when the patient consents to certain treatment and the doctor performs that treatment but an undisclosed inherent complication with a low probability occurs, no intentional deviation from the consent given appears; rather, the doctor in obtaining consent may have failed to meet his due care duty to disclose pertinent information,” such that “the action should be pleaded in negligence.” (Id. at pp. 240-241.)Here, Plaintiff alleges that she consented to the surgery, but she withdrew that consent mid-procedure, which resulted in harm to Plaintiff. There are no allegations that Plaintiff did not consent to the surgery at all; instead, she alleges that she screamed “stop” during the surgery, but Dr. Stafford did not stop. It is not clear that Plaintiff in fact withdrew her consent for the surgery; rather, it is only clear from the allegations that Plaintiff told Dr. Stafford to stop, which could have meant that she wanted her to stop the surgery temporarily and that Plaintiff’s conduct implied that she continued to consent to the surgery after the temporary stop. Put simply, Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged a medical battery because it is not clear from the facts alleged that Defendants performed an operation to which Plaintiff had not consented. While the Court is not convinced that Plaintiff can amend her claim to state medical battery, the Court will allow Plaintiff one final opportunity to allege a claim for medical battery. Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrers to the first cause of action are SUSTAINED with thirty (30) days leave to amend.Second Cause of Action: Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress“The elements of a prima facie case for the tort of intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct. Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.” (Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009, citation and ellipses omitted.)Plaintiff alleges that Sono Bello’s actions, through Dr. Stafford, constitute intentional infliction of emotional distress; specifically, she takes issue with Dr. Stafford’s conduct of continuing the surgery after she yelled during the surgery and Dr. Stafford’s alleged admonishment of Plaintiff’s display of emotions while asking her to “pee on the table.” (SAC, p. 7.) For the same reasons stated above, it is not clear from the facts that Defendants continued a medical procedure after consent was withdrawn. The Court again is not convinced that Plaintiff can amend her claim to state intentional infliction of emotional distress, but the Court will allow Plaintiff one final opportunity to allege such a claim. Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrers to the second cause of action are SUSTAINED with thirty (30) days leave to amend.Motion to StrikeGiven the Court’s ruling on demurrer, Defendant Debra Stafford, M.D.’s Motion to Strike Portions of Second Amended Complaint is DENIED as MOOT.