 Case Number:  23STCV06520    Hearing Date:   October 14, 2024    Dept:  29 Rosas v. Ava Arts District, L.P.
23STCV06520
Defendant’s Motion for leave to conduct a mental examination of Plaintiff
Tentative
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion
for leave to conduct a mental examination of Plaintiff, subject to the
conditions set forth in this order.
 
Background
On March 24, 2023, Plaintiff Raul Gutierrez Rosas
(“Plaintiff”) filed the complaint in this action against Defendants Ava Arts
District, L.P. (“Ava”); Covi Concrete Construction, Inc. (“Defendant”); and
Does 1 through 50, asserting causes of action for negligence and premises
liability arising out of fall at a construction site on February 2, 2022, at or
near 1540 East Industrial Street in Los Angeles.
Ava and Defendant filed answers on May 18, 2023.
On April 18,
2024, the Court granted Ava’s motion for summary judgment.
 
On June 5, 2024,
Defendant filed a motion for summary judgment that is set to be heard on
December 6, 2024.
 
On September 13, 2024, Defendant filed this motion styled
as a motion to compel a mental examination of Plaintiff.  Plaintiff filed an opposition on September 30,
and Defendant filed a reply on October 7.
 
Legal Standard
“Any party may obtain discovery . . . by means of a
physical or mental examination of (1) a party to the action, (2) an agent of
any party, or (3) a natural person in the custody or under the legal control of
a party, in any action in which the mental or physical condition (including the
blood group) of that party or other person is in controversy in the action.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.020, subd. (a).)
In a personal injury action, the defendant may
demand one physical examination of plaintiff as of right, without advance leave
of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.220.)  
If a defendant seeks a further physical examination
of plaintiff, or a mental examination, the defendant must first file a motion
and “obtain leave of court.” (Id., § 2032.310, subd. (a).) Such a motion
must “specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person
or persons who will perform the examination.” (Id., subd. (b).) The
court may grant such a motion “only for good cause shown.” (Id., §
2032.320, subd. (a).) A showing of good cause generally requires “that the
party produce specific facts justifying discovery and that the inquiry be
relevant to the subject matter of the action or reasonably calculated to lead
to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Vinson v. Super. Ct. (1987)
43 Cal.3d 833, 840.)   
The moving party¿must support the motion with a meet
and confer declaration.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (b).) A
meet and confer declaration must state facts “showing a reasonable and good
faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the
motion.”¿ (Id., § 2016.040.)¿¿¿¿ 
The examination will be limited to whatever
condition is “in controversy” in the action.¿ (Id., § 2032.020, subd.
(a).) A mental examination is appropriate only if the plaintiff alleges
continuing emotional distress. (Doyle v. Super. Ct. ¿(1996) 50
Cal.App.4th¿1878, 1886-1887.) “While a plaintiff may place his mental
state in controversy by a general allegation of severe emotional distress, the
opposing party may not require him to undergo psychiatric testing solely on the
basis of speculation that something of interest may surface.”  (Vinson, supra, 43 Cal.3d at
840.) By alleging a causal link between the emotional distress and the
defendant's conduct, however, a plaintiff “implicitly claims it was not caused
by a preexisting mental condition, thereby raising the question of alternative
sources for the distress.” (Ibid.) 
“An order granting a physical or mental examination
shall specify the person or persons who may perform the examination, as well as
the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests and procedures, conditions, scope,
and nature of the examination.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd.
(d).) “The court is to describe¿in detail¿who will conduct the
examination, where and when it will be conducted, the conditions, scope and
nature of the examination, and the diagnostic tests and procedures to be
employed.  The way to describe these ‘diagnostic tests and procedures’—fully¿and¿in
detail—is to list them by name.” (Carpenter v. Super. Ct.¿(2006)
141 Cal.App.4th 249, 260.)¿¿ 
 
Discussion
Plaintiff does not oppose Defendant’s request
for leave to conduct the mental examination. 
The only dispute between the parties relates to the conditions of the
examination.
First, Plaintiff requests that he be allowed
to record the entire examination by audio technology.  He has that right under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2032.530, subdivision (a). 
That request is granted.  
Second, Plaintiff asks that the raw data from
the testing be provided to Plaintiff’s counsel. 
This request requires a more extended discussion.
A plaintiff
submitting to a mental examination has the right to demand that the defendant
deliver to the plaintiff a “copy of a detailed written report setting out the
history, examinations, findings, including the results of all tests made,
diagnoses, prognoses, and conclusions of the examination.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.610, subd.
(a)(1).)  Defendant opposes the request
for raw testing data, arguing that raw data is not included within the phrase “results
of all tests” and could lead to the tests being compromised for future use as
the data and questions would be improperly known by future test takers.
(Lafosse Decl., ¶ 9.) Defendant further argues it will be prejudiced as
Dr. Lafosse will not complete the examination if they raw data is shared with
Plaintiff’s counsel. (Id., ¶ 12.) 
The Court of Appeal recently considered
this very issue in Randy’s Trucking v. Superior Court (2023) 91
Cal.App.5th 818.  In that case, the
superior court ordered that the raw data be provided to plaintiff’s counsel,
subject to a protective order that prohibited any use or disclosure of the
materials for any purpose other than in connection with the litigation.  (Id. at p. 828.)  On writ review, the defendants made arguments
similar to the ones that Defendants make here, including (among others) : (1)
that disclosure is not required by section 2032.610; (2) that disclosure would
violate the ethical and professional obligations of the testing expert; and (3)
that disclosure to attorneys, rather than other health care professionals,
would lead to coaching of future clients that would undermine the value and
effectiveness of the testing materials. 
(Id. at pp. 834, 837-38.)  
 
The Court of Appeal rejected those
arguments, holding that the superior court did not abuse its discretion in
compelling the disclosure pursuant to a protective order.  (Id. at 842). 
As the Court of Appeal explained, a plaintiff has a
 
right
to take discovery and cross-examine defendants’ expert witnesses, which
includes being able to examine the expert on the matter upon which the expert’s
opinion is based and the reasons for that opinion.  (Evid. Code, § 721, subd. (a).)  Without raw data and audio recording,
plaintiffs cannot effectively scrutinize the way the data was collected,
determine if there are discrepancies, and cross-examine the neuropsychologist on
the basis and reasons for the neuropsychologist’s opinion.
 
(Id. at p. 838.)  The appellate court also rejected the
argument that the disclosure should be made only to the plaintiff’s expert,
explaining (among other things) that a party “should not be forced to retain an
expert to gain access to these materials.” 
(Ibid.)
 
After carefully considering the evidence
and arguments presented by both sides, the Court grants Plaintiff’s request
that the order for the examination include a provision requiring disclosure of
the raw data and testing materials directly to Plaintiff’s counsel, subject to
a protective order, for two separate and independent reasons.
 
First, given the overall purposes of the
Civil Discovery Act, the Court interprets the phrase “results of all tests
made” in section 2032.610 broadly, to include raw testing data.  That interpretation promotes the well-established
policy in favor of broad and mutual pre-trial disclosure that runs throughout
the Civil Discovery Act and the case law.
 
Second, even if the disclosure is not
required by section 2032.610, the decision whether to order disclosure of raw
test data falls within the broad discretion of the superior court.  (Randy’s Trucking, supra, 91
Cal.App.5th at p. 837; Carpenter, supra, 141 Cal.App.4th at pp.
271-272.)  Here, the Court has weighed
the competing interests and finds that the appropriate balance is struck by
requiring disclosure subject to a protective order, just as Superior Court Judge
Barmann did in the Randy’s Trucking case.  This will allow Plaintiff access to the
material needed to cross-examine the Covi’s expert and prepare for trial, and
it will minimize the risk of improper or undue distribution of the data to
third parties.
 
Following the lead of Judge Barmann, the
Court will order the following protective order in this matter:
 
Plaintiff’s counsel, defense counsel and all experts, consultants
and employees of the respective firms shall maintain the security of all raw
data, test materials and other medically private information obtained during
the examination. However, such raw data, test materials and other medically
private information may be disclosed to plaintiff’s counsel, defense counsel
and all experts, consultants and employees of the respective firms for use in
this case. Such materials and data may also be shown to the trier of fact at
the time of trial, or such other time as may be necessary for the adjudication
of the above-captioned matter. These materials may be used for no other
purpose, may not be disseminated to any other party and the parties shall take
all reasonable steps to maintain the confidentiality of the above-identified
materials.
 
Counsel may seek to add to or modify these
provisions (by a court order entered following a stipulation or motion), but
the materials must be disclosed to Plaintiff’s counsel, and, pending further
order of the Court, the protective order set forth above will apply.
 
Finally, Defendant requests, in the
alternative, that if the Court orders disclosure of the raw test data, the
order should be “reciprocal as to Plaintiff’s physician’s raw data.”  (Motion, 9:22-24.) Test data from Plaintiff’s
examination by his own doctors is not covered by Code of Civil Procedure
section 2032.010 through 2032.650, and any attempt to obtain this information
from Plaintiff’s own doctors is not properly included in this motion; rather,
Defendant must first seek this information through a proper discovery vehicle
(such as a request for production or a subpoena).  If the information is properly requested and
not produced, then Defendant may (after complying with any necessary meet and
confer requirement) bring an appropriate motion.  But at this time, Defendant’s request for alternative
relief is denied without prejudice.
 
Conclusion 
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion for leave to conduct a mental
examination of Plaintiff.
 
The
Court FURTHER ORDERS that Plaintiff may record the entire examination by audio
technology.
 
The
Court FURTHER ORDERS that Defendant must provide all raw test data to
Plaintiff’s counsel, subject to the terms of the protective order set forth
above.
 
The
Court DENIES without prejudice Defendant’s request for alternative relief.
 
Moving party is ordered to
give notice.