 Case Number:  22STCV13176    Hearing Date:   October 14, 2024    Dept:  29 Torosyan
v. Pour
22STCV13176
Defendants’ motion for order setting reasonable fee for deposition of treating
radiologist
Tentative
The
motion is denied without prejudice.
Background
On
April 20, 2022, Katerin Torosyan and Vigen Tsaturyan (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint against Defendants Shervin Dirin Pour, Hertz
Corporation, and Does 1 through 25, asserting causes of action for general
negligence and motor vehicle negligence in connection with an accident in
which, Plaintiffs allege, they suffered property damages and personal injuries.
On
December 6, 2022, Defendant Shervin Dirinpour (erroneously sued as Shervin
Dirin Pour) (“Defendant”) filed an Answer to the complaint.
On
September 13, 2024, Defendant filed the instant motion for an order setting a
reasonable fee for the appearance at deposition of Plaintiffs’ treating
radiologist.  No
opposition has been filed.
Legal Standard
 
A party seeking to depose an expert witness “shall pay the expert’s
reasonable and customary hourly or daily fee for any time spent at the
deposition…regardless of whether the expert is actually deposed by any party
attending the deposition.” ¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.430, subd. (b).)  If the party seeking to the take the
deposition of an expert witness deems the hourly or daily fee of that expert to
be unreasonable, that party may move for an order setting the compensation rate
and notice of the motion shall be given to the expert. ¿ (Code Civ.¿Proc., §
2034.470, subd. (a).)
 
The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration
under Code of Civil Procedure section 2016.040.¿  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.470, subd. (b).)  “In any attempt at an informal resolution…either
the party or expert shall provide the other with all of the following:
 
(1) Proof of the ordinary and customary fee
actually charged and received by that expert for similar services provided
outside the subject litigation.
 
(2) The total number of times the presently
demanded fee has ever been charged and received by that expert.
 
(3) The frequency and regularity with which
the presently demanded fee has been charged and received by that expert within
the two-year period preceding the hearing on the motion.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.470, subd. (b).)
 
The expert or party designating the expert shall provide, and the
court shall base its determination of the reasonableness of the demanded fee
on, proof of the ordinary and customary fee actually charged and received by
that expert for similar services, in addition to any other facts or evidence.¿  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.470, subd. (c).)
 
The court’s determination of a reasonable fee shall be based on
both “(1) [t]he total number of times the presently demanded fee has ever been
charged and received by that expert” and “(2) [t]he frequency and regularity
with which the presently demanded fee has been charged and received by that
expert within the two-year period preceding the hearing on the motion.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.470, subd. (d).)  “The court may also consider the ordinary and
customary fees charged by similar experts for similar services within the
relevant community and any other factors the court deems necessary and
appropriate to make its determination.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2034.470, subd. (e).)¿ Upon determination that the fee demanded
is unreasonable, the court shall set the fee of the expert providing testimony.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.470, subd. (f).)
 
Discussion
 
Defendant moves for
an order setting a reasonable deposition-appearance fee for Plaintiffs’
treating radiologist, Dr. Hosam Moustafa, M.D. 
According to Defendant, Dr. Moustafa presented an invoice “for the
exorbitant sum” of $2,800 for his appearance. 
(Nelson Decl., ¶ 8 & Exh. D.) 
Defendant’s counsel states that in his experience a “reasonable rate …
is $1,000 to $1,500.”  (Id., ¶ 9.)
 
As a threshold
matter, the Court notes that Dr. Moustafa is a treating doctor who has not been
designated as an expert.  Nonetheless,
Defendant argues, a treating doctor who has not been retained as an expert is
still considered an expert for purposes related to a fee for appearance at deposition.  (Mem. At p. 4, citing Bayer-Hoev v.
Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 592, 600-601.)  As no opposition has been filed, the Court
assumes, without deciding, that this is so.
 
Nonetheless, the
Court must deny the motion, without prejudice, for procedural reasons.
 
First, Defendant has
filed proof of serving the Motion on Plaintiffs’ counsel, but there is no
indication that notice, motion, and supporting papers have been served on the
nonparty witness.  As this motion
directly relates to the substantial rights of a nonparty witness, the witness
must be served.
 
Second, Defendant has
not filed a meet and confer declaration indicating that an attempt was made to resolve
this matter informally, as is required by Code of
Civil Procedure section 2034.470, subdivision (b).  
 
Third, the Court has not been presented with
any evidence, as required by section 2034.470, subdivisions (c)-(e), to
determine the reasonableness of the fee.
 
For
these procedural reasons, the motion is denied without prejudice.
 
Conclusion
 
The Court DENIES
WITHOUT PREJUDICE Defendant’s Motion for
Order Setting a Reasonable Fee for Appearance at Deposition of Claimant’s
Treating Radiologist.
 
Moving party to give notice.