 Case Number:  21STCV46993    Hearing Date:   October 14, 2024    Dept:  29 Tripolskiy v. Clubbizz, LLC
21STCV46993
Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to Amend
Tentative
The Court will call this matter.
The Court’s tentative ruling is to grant the
motion for leave to amend.
In addition to whatever other issues counsel
would like to raise, the Court will inquire as to whether, if leave to amend is
granted, any party seeks to continue the trial date and reopen discovery (and,
if so, for what period and with what conditions). 
Background
This is a personal injury case
that arises out of an alleged physical attack against Plaintiff Allen Leon
Tripolskiy (“Plaintiff”) that occurred at a New Year’s Eve event on December
31, 2019, at a club on Santa Monica Boulevard in Los Angeles.
Plaintiff filed his Complaint on
December 27, 2021, asserting causes of action for negligence, premises
liability, and negligent hiring, training, and supervision against Defendants
Clubbizz.LLC (“Defendant”), Douglas C. MacLise, Alyce R. MacLise, and Does 1
through 50.
On December 2, 2022, Defendant filed
an Answer.  On the same day, Defendant
filed a Cross-Complaint against Roes 1 through 100.
On June 5, 2023, Plaintiff
amended his Complaint to name Salient Consulting Group Inc. (“Salient”) as Doe
1.
On August 1, 2023, Salient filed
a Demurrer.  On the same day, Salient
filed a Cross-Complaint against Defendant and Roes 1 through 10. 
On August 30, the Court overruled
Salient’s Demurrer to the Complaint.
On September 5, 2023, Defendant filed
an Answer to Salient’s Cross-Complaint. 
On September 29, 2023, Salient
filed an Answer to the Complaint.
On June 5, 2024, Defendant
amended its Cross-Complaint to name Salient as Roe 1.
On May 22, 2024, the Court, at
the request of Plaintiff, dismissed (with prejudice) the causes of action in
the Complaint against Salient.
On June 7 and 12, 2024, the
Court, at the request of Salient and Defendant, dismissed (without prejudice) the
causes of action in Salient’s Cross-Complaint against Defendant and the causes
of action in Defendant’s Cross-Complaint against Salient.
Before the Court at this time and set for
hearing on October 14, 2024, is Plaintiff’s motion, filed on September 17,
2024, to file a First Amended Complaint. Defendant filed an opposition on October
1, and Plaintiff filed a reply on October 8.
Legal Standard
Code of
Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1), provides, in relevant
part:  “The court may, in furtherance of
justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading
or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting
a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.  The court may likewise, in its discretion,
after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an
amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like
terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”  
“This
discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial
policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same lawsuit.”  (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court
(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.) 
Ordinarily, the court will not consider the validity of the proposed
amended pleading in ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer
or motion to strike are premature.  The
court, however, does have discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed
amendment fails to state a valid cause of action as a matter of law and the
defect cannot be cured by further amendment. 
(See California Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985)
173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281, overruled on other grounds by Kransco v. American
Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390.) 
Under California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading shall (1) include
a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially
numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state
what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any,
and where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are
located; and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be added to the
previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located.  
Rule
3.1324(b) further provides that a separate declaration must accompany the
motion and must specify (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment
is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for amendment
was not made earlier.  
Even if
a good amendment is proposed in proper form, a long, unwarranted and unexcused
delay in presenting it may be a good reason for denial.  In most cases, the factors for timeliness
are: (1) lack of diligence in discovering the facts or in offering the
amendment after knowledge of them; and (2) the effect of the delay on the
adverse party.  If the party seeking the
amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party,
the judge has discretion to deny leave to amend.  (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118
Cal.App.3d 486, 490.)  Prejudice may be
shown, in certain circumstances, where the amendment would require delaying the
trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added costs of preparation
such as an increased burden of discovery. 
(Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471,
486-488.) 
Discussion
Plaintiff
seeks leave to file a First Amended Complaint that adds: (1) a cause of action
for negligence per se based on violations of the California Business and
Professions Code in regard to the hiring of security professionals on the night
of the incident; and (2) a claim for punitive damages. 
As a
threshold matter, the Court finds that the procedural requirements for the
motion under California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, are satisfied. 
Turning
to the merits, the Court begins by noting that this motion was filed on
September 17, 2014, with a hearing date of October 14.  Trial is set for October 18.  Defendant opposes the motion, arguing (among
other things) that Plaintiff unreasonably delayed in bringing the motion, and
that granting leave to amend would be unfairly prejudicial to Defendant.
As to
the delay, Plaintiff argues that Defendant essentially blocked discovery into
the issue of Defendant’s hiring of the security guards by making what Plaintiff
contends are false statements that the security guards were provided by
since-dismissed defendant Salient.  According
to Plaintiff, Defendant stated that Salient provided security in a discovery
response served in March 2023 and reaffirmed that statement in a discovery
response served in May 2024.  (Hartley
Decl., ¶¶ 9-11 & Exhs. B-C.)  It was
only in or about June 2024 that Plaintiff learned that Defendant had directly
retained the security guards that were present on the night of the
incident.  (Id., ¶¶ 14, 18 & Exh. F.)
It is
true, as Defendant notes, that Plaintiff does not explain why he delayed in seeking
leave to amend for approximately three months after he obtained this new
information.  But Defendant’s
protestations about delay ring a bit hollow when for at least a year, if not
more, the delay was the result, at least in part, of discovery responses
provided by Defendant that turned out not to be true.  
Turning
to the related issue of prejudice, neither side addresses the rather large grey
mammal with large tusks in the room: whether granting Plaintiff’s motion, just
four days before trial, will necessitate a continuance of the trial date and a reopening
of discovery (and, if so, for what period and on what conditions).  In general, concerns about unfair prejudice in
allowing leave to amend can often be addressed through the granting of a
continuance of the trial date so that both sides a full and fair opportunity to
conduct discovery relating to the new allegations, but the parties’ positions
on this issue are unclear.  The Court
will hear from counsel on this issue.  
Defendant
also argues that the proposed amendment fails to state facts sufficient to
constitute a negligence or negligence per se cause of action against it or a
basis to recover punitive damages.  But
this does not appear to be a sham amendment or an amendment offered solely or
primarily for purposes of delay, and any challenge to the adequacy of the
amended pleading can be fully addressed through a demurrer or motion to strike.
Accordingly,
the Court’s tentative ruling is that the motion to amend is granted.
The
Court will hear from counsel regarding any request to continue trial and/or
reopen discovery.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend
is GRANTED. 
The
Court GRANTS LEAVE to Plaintiff to file the proposed First Amended Complaint
attached to the motion by no later than October 18, 2024.
The
Court will hear from counsel regarding any request to continue trial and/or to
reopen discovery.
Moving
party is ordered to give notice.