 Case Number:  23STCV18491    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  26  
 
 
 
Superior Court of
California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26



 
christina
  development corporation,
                        Plaintiff,
            v. 
 
creditlink
  corporation; et
  al.
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  23STCV18491 
Related to Lead Action:
  22STCV28564
 
 
  Hearing Date:  October 25, 2023
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
defendant creditlink corporation’s motion to transfer venue



 
Procedural
Background
            On
August 3, 2023, Plaintiff Christina Development Corporation (“CDC”) filed the
instant negligence action against Defendant CreditLink Corporation
(“CreditLink”).  The complaint asserts
two causes of action for (1) Negligence, and (2) Negligent Misrepresentation.
            On
September 11, 2023, the instant action was deemed related to the lead action
entitled Christina Development Corporation v. Steven Raymond Short, et al.,
Los Angeles Superior Court, Case No. 22STCV28564 (“Lead Action”).  (Minute Order 9/11/23.)
            On
September 18, 2023, Defendant CreditLink filed the instant motion to transfer
venue.  On October 12, 2023, Plaintiff
CDC filed an opposition.  On October 18,
2023, Defendant CreditLink filed a reply.
 
Evidentiary
Objections
            In
opposition, Plaintiff CDC objects to portions of the declaration of Stephen C.
Grebing in support of the instant motion. 
The Court rules as follows:
1.    
Sustained – Lack
of Foundation, Lack of Personal Knowledge, Lack of Authentication, Incomplete
Legal Standard
Plaintiff’s choice of venue is
presumptively correct, and Defendant bears the burden of demonstrating that
venue is not proper there. (Battaglia
Enterprises, Inc. v. Superior Court of San Diego County (2013) 215
Cal.App.4th 309, 313-14.)  “It is the
moving defendant's burden to demonstrate that the plaintiff's venue selection
is not proper under any of the statutory grounds.” (Mitchell v. Superior
Court (1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 1040, 1046.) 
In opposing the motion to change venue, “[t]he plaintiff may bolster his
or her choice of venue with counter affidavits consistent with the complaint’s
theory of the type of action but amplifying the allegations relied upon for
venue.” (Lebastchi v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1465, 1469,
39 Cal.Rptr.2d 787)
“Venue is determined based on the
complaint on file at the time the motion to change venue is made.” (Brown v. Superior Court of Alameda County
(1984) 37 Cal.3d 477, 482.)  As a general
rule, “[i]t is well established that a defendant is entitled to have an action
tried in the county of his or her residence unless the action falls within some
exception to the general venue rule.”  (Id. at
p.483.)
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 395(a), “if a defendant has contracted to
perform an obligation in a particular county, the superior court in the county
where the obligation is to be performed, where the contract in fact was entered
into, or where the defendant or any defendant resides at the commencement of
the action is a proper court for the trial of an action founded on that
obligation, and the county where the obligation is incurred is the county where
it is to be performed, unless there is a special contract in writing to the
contrary.”  Although the section appears
to be addressing actions sounding in contract, it has long been settled that it
governs actions sounding in tort as well. 
(See Mission Imports v. Superior
Court of San Francisco (1982) 31 Cal.3d 921, 927-928.)  Per Code of Civil Procedure section 396b, on
timely motion, the court must order a transfer of an action “whenever the court
designated in the Complaint is not the proper Court.”  (Id.) 

If the
transfer is ordered on the ground that the plaintiff filed in the “wrong
court,” the plaintiff is responsible for paying the costs and fees of
transferring the action to whichever county the court orders, within 30 days
after service of notice of the transfer order. 
If the plaintiff fails to do so within 5 days after service of notice of
the court, any other interested party, whether named in the complaint or not,
may pay such costs and fees in order to expedite the transfer.  If the fees and costs are not paid within 30
days, the action is subject to dismissal. 
(See CCP § 399).  
 
Discussion 
            Defendant CreditLink asserts that
venue in Los Angeles County is improper, and the instant action must be
transferred to San Diego County.
 
Los Angeles County
and San Diego County Are Both Proper Venues
“A corporation or association may be sued
in the county where the contract is made or is to be performed, or where the
obligation or liability arises, or the breach occurs; or in the county where
the principal place of business of such corporation is situated, subject to the
power of the court to change the place of trial as in other cases.”  (CCP § 395.5.)  “Section 395.5 permits tort claims against a
corporation to be tried in any county in which the ‘liability arises’ as well
as in the county where the corporation's principal place of business is
located.”  (Mission Imports, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1982) 31 Cal.3d 921, 928–929.)  “In tort, ‘liability arises where the injury
occurs ....’ [Citation.]”  (Id. at
p.929.)  
            “Venue is determined based on
the complaint on file at the time the motion to change venue is made.” (Brown v. Superior Court of Alameda County
(1984) 37 Cal.3d 477, 482.) 
            As the complaint concedes, and as Defendant
CreditLink’s Counsel notes, CreditLink is a corporation with a principal place
of business in San Diego County. 
(Complaint ¶ 16; Grebing Decl. ¶ 8.) 
Thus, San Diego County is a proper venue location.  (CCP § 395.5.)  However, the liability in the complaint
arises in Los Angeles County. 
            Here, the complaint asserts two tort
causes of action for negligence and negligent misrepresentation.  Plaintiff CDC manages rental properties in Los
Angeles County.  (Complaint ¶¶ 1, 20-21.)  Plaintiff CDC hired Defendant CreditLink to
conduct a background check on a now former employee – Steven Raymond Short (“Short”)–
when he was applying to be the Vice President of Property Operations for
Plaintiff CDC in 2017.  (Complaint ¶¶ 23-25.)  Plaintiff CDC gave CreditLink the required
information to conduct a background check on Short, and CreditLink provided a
background report indicating no criminal history.  (Id. ¶¶ 26-28, Exh. B.)  Relying on this background report by
CreditLink, Plaintiff CDC hired Short.  (Id.
¶ 29.)  However, contrary to the
representations in the background check, Short was a convicted sex offender
with a violent criminal history and a history of frivolous lawsuits in various
jurisdictions.  (Id. ¶¶ 30-32.)  
            In early 2022, Short sexually
harassed a tenant who informed CDC that she had looked up Short and believed
that he was a registered sex offender.  (Id.
¶ 34.)  In response, CDC launched an
investigation and uncovered that Short had lied in his application and had a
lengthy criminal history that had not been reported in the background check by
CreditLink.  (Id. ¶ 35.)  Plaintiff CDC then fired Short who then tried
to extort CDC, stole confidential tenant files, and sent threats and defamatory
comments regarding CDC to tenants.  (Id.
¶¶ 36-43.)  This has resulted in the Lead
Action and the action by Short which was consolidated in with the Lead Action, causing
Plaintiff CDC to incur significant costs and fees.  (Id. ¶¶ 44-49.)
            All of these alleged injuries
occurred in Los Angeles County.  (Mission
Imports, Inc., supra, 31 Cal.3d at p.929, [“In tort, ‘liability arises
where the injury occurs ....’ [Citation.]”].) 
The legal fees caused by CreditLink’s alleged failure to properly
conduct a background check are occurring in this very Court.  (Complaint ¶¶ 44-49.)  Similarly, the harm caused by Short harassing
tenants, stealing confidential tenant files, and sending threats and defamatory
comments regarding CDC to tenants has all occurred in Los Angeles County as the
tenants are all located in Los Angeles County. 
(Complaint ¶¶ 1, 20-21, 36-43.)
            As noted above,  “Section 395.5 permits tort claims against a
corporation to be tried in any county in which the ‘liability arises’ as well
as in the county where the corporation's principal place of business is
located.”  (Mission Imports, Inc.,
supra, 31 Cal.3d at pp.928–929.) 
Thus, by statute both Los Angeles County and San Diego County are proper
venues.
            However, Defendant CreditLink
contends that a choice of venue clause in an agreement between the parties
applies and requires that the instant action occur in San Diego County.
 
Defendant
CreditLink Fails to Show that a Choice of Venue Agreement Applies
            “[A] venue selection clause is void
only insofar as it ‘disrupts statutory venue provisions.’ [Citation.]”  (Battaglia Enterprises, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 309, 317.) 
Thus, where “two sophisticated parties agree, pursuant to arm's length
negotiations, to litigate an action in one of multiple statutorily permissible
venues, they should be held to their agreement.”  (Id. at p.318.)  
            Here, as reflected in the sustained
evidentiary objections, Defendant CreditLink does not submit admissible
evidence that Plaintiff CDC and CreditLink are parties to a venue selection
clause.  Rather, Defendant CreditLink
relies on an exhibit attached to a declaration of Defense Counsel – who does
not set forth any basis for personal knowledge of the claimed fact or knowledge
– who claims that “[p]rior to CreditLink performing services on behalf of
Plaintiff, both parties signed a Service Agreement which contained a venue
selection clause, setting San Diego County as the venue for any causes of
action which might arise from services performed. Attached hereto as Exhibit 4
is a true and correct copy of the Service Agreement signed by both CreditLink
and Plaintiff.”  (Grebing Decl. ¶
11.)  However, the attached exhibit is
clearly not a Service Agreement signed by both CreditLink and Plaintiff
CDC.  
            The so called “Service Agreement” consists
of an application to open an account with CreditLink on February 15, 1996 randomly
spread throughout, telecopier correspondence between CDC and CreditLink from
February 1996, a signed and what appears to be a complete service agreement
between CDC and CreditLink from February 15, 1996 that does not contain any
venue selection clause, improperly unredacted tenant applications from 1996[1], a
portion of an unsigned and undated service agreement, correspondence between
CDC and CreditLink from 2007, and account statements and bills from
2007/2008.  (Grebing Decl., Exh. 4.)  The single page that contains the venue
selection clause at page 88 of the exhibits is undated, has no reference to
CDC, and is clearly missing the surrounding pages.  It has no connection to any other portion of
a service agreement contained in the so called “Service Agreement”.  
            There is no indication based on this
evidence that Plaintiff CDC agreed to a choice of venue clause as claimed.  Accordingly, in light of the absence of any admissible
evidence of an applicable choice of venue clause, both Los Angeles County and
San Diego County are proper venues by statutes – as discussed above.  “Generally, when venue is proper in more than
one county, a plaintiff has the choice of where to file the action from among
the available options.”  (Battaglia
Enterprises, Inc., supra, 215 Cal.App.4th at p.313.)  Thus, Plaintiff CDC’s choice of venue in Los
Angeles County is proper.
 
Sanctions
            Plaintiff CDC requests sanctions of
$15,605.00 to reimburse Plaintiff CDC for reasonable expenses and attorney’s
fees in bringing the instant motion.  
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 396b, “[i]n its discretion, the court may
order the payment to the prevailing party of reasonable expenses and attorney's
fees incurred in making or resisting the motion to transfer whether or not that
party is otherwise entitled to recover his or her costs of action. In
determining whether that order for expenses and fees shall be made, the court
shall take into consideration (1) whether an offer to stipulate to change of
venue was reasonably made and rejected, and (2) whether the motion or selection
of venue was made in good faith given the facts and law the party making the
motion or selecting the venue knew or should have known.”  (CCP § 396b.) 

Here,
the Court in its discretion declines to award sanctions.  The Court finds that Defendant CreditLink did
not unreasonably or in bad faith bring the instant motion and did not in bath
faith attempt to stipulate to a change of venue.  Accordingly, the Court declines to award
sanctions against Defendant CreditLink.
 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Based on the forgoing, Defendant CreditLink Corporation’s motion to
transfer venue is DENIED.
Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is DENIED.
Defendant CreditLink
Corporation is ordered to file a responsive pleading within 10 days.  The Court hereby sets an OSC re entry of Defendant
CreditLink Corporation’s default for November 22, 2023 at 8:30 am.  The case management conference is continued to
November 22, 2023 at 8:30 am.
Moving Party is to give notice and file
proof of service of such.
 
DATED: October ___, 2023                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          Elaine
Lu
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


