 Case Number:  22STCV10077    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  26 Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesDepartment 26  KRISTINA HOLMAN,                         Plaintiff,            vs. KERLAN-JOBE SURGERY CENTER, LLC, et al.,                         Defendants.  Case No.: 22STCV10077  Hearing Date: April 9, 2024 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:PLAINTIFF KRISTINA HOLMAN’S MOTION FOR ISSUE AND EVIDENTIARY SANCTIONS AGAINST DEFENDANT KERLAN-JOBE SURGERY CENTER LLC FOR FAILURE TO OBEY COURT ORDERS RE TO PLAINTIFF’S SPECIALLY PREPARED INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE   Background            On March 25, 2024, Plaintiff Kristina Holman (“Plaintiff”) filed this operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against Defendants Kerlan-Jobe Surgery Center LLC; Kerlan-Jobe , LLC; Cedars-Sinai Kerlan Jobe Institute; Cedars-Sinai Medical Center; Cedars-Sinai Medical Care Foundation; Kerlan-Jobe Orthopaedic Clinic, a Medical Group, Inc. (collectively, “Defendants”); and DOES 1 through 50, inclusive, asserting eleven causes of action: (1) Retaliation in Violation of Labor Code §1102.5; (2) Retaliation in Violation of Labor Code §232.5; (3) Retaliation in Violation of California Business and Professions Code § 510; (4) Discrimination on the Basis of Age in Violation of FEHA (Gov. Code §12940, et. seq.); (5) Discrimination on the Basis of Disability in Violation of FEHA (Gov. Code §12940, et. seq.); (6) Failure to Prevent Discrimination on the Basis of FEHA (Gov. Code §12940, et. seq.); (7) Retaliation in Violation of FEHA (Gov. Code §12940, et. seq.); (8) Failure to Prevent Retaliation in Violation of FEHA (Gov. Code §12940, et. seq.); (9) Failure to Accommodate in Violation of FEHA (Gov. Code §12940, et. seq.); (10) Failure to Engage in a Good Faith Interactive Process  in Violation of FEHA (Gov. Code §12940, et. seq.); and (11) Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy.            On December 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed this instant motion for issue and evidence sanctions against Defendant Kerlan-Jobe Surgery Center, LLC (“Kerlan-Jobe Surgery”) for failure to obey court orders relating to Plaintiff’s specially prepared interrogatories, set one. On March 26, 2024, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery filed its opposition. On April 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed her reply. Allegations of the Operative ComplaintThe SAC alleges that:Kerlan-Jobe is a network of Orthopedic surgery centers and clinics founded by Drs. Robert Kerlan and Frank Jobe, and mainly focused on select sports injuries. (SAC ¶¶ 13-16.)Plaintiff worked with Dr. Jobe for about seven (7) years at Centinela Hospital before he recruited her to join Kerlan-Jobe in 1997. (SAC ¶ 17.) After Dr. Jobe passed away, Kerlan-Jobe underwent new leadership that increased its case load and expanded its portfolio of services to include pediatric orthopedics, total hip and knee replacement, the spine, etc.  (SAC ¶¶ 22-23.)“Kerlan-Jobe partnered with Cedars Sinai Medical Center, Department of Orthopedics, to expand and/or establish a network of surgery centers and clinics launching the Cedars Sinai Kerlan-Jobe Institute.” (SAC ¶ 24.)“Kerlan-Jobe prioritized profit over patient care,” which led to a high volume, fast paced work environment and resulted in a revolving door of employees and frequent openings. (SAC ¶¶ 25-26.)            “Dr. Neal S. ElAttrache took over Dr. Jobe’s patients” (SAC ¶ 27.) “His surgeries were substantially delayed because he overbooked himself.” (SAC ¶ 28.) “To mitigate the appearance of long delays, Dr. ElAttrache regularly brought patients into the operating room and put them under total, general anesthesia long before the actual surgery began.” (SAC ¶ 29.) “Dr. ElAttrache would abandon his patients for long periods of time sometimes upwards to around an hour or so to handle post-operation matters for other patients and/or his phone calls.” (SAC ¶ 34.) “All the while, his patients were needlessly exposed to general anesthesia and associated risks, charged for unnecessary medical care, and remained in the operating room until Dr. ElAttrache decided to return. ” (SAC ¶ 35.) “This practice delayed the remaining surgeries scheduled for the day and forced surgery technicians to work late.” (SAC ¶ 36.) Plaintiff and other staff objected to Dr. ElAttrache’s practices out of concern for the patients and felt overwhelmed. (SAC ¶ 38.)            In the summer of 2020, management began pressuring Plaintiff to resign based on her being fifty (50) years of age. (SAC ¶¶ 42-43.) “Trudy Wiig, the Administrator of the Surgery Center, asked Ms. Holman whether she was willing to work part-time because of her age. The request was motivated by ageism.  Ms. Wiig said words to the effect that [Plaintiff]’s name came up during a Board Meeting and they were concerned that in her old age she would not be able to keep up.” (SAC ¶ 44.) Plaintiff declined, expressing her desire to keep working including regular overtime. (SAC ¶ 46.)  Trudy then asked Plaintiff if she would consider accepting a severance package from Defendants in exchange for early retirement, which Plaintiff also declined. (SAC ¶¶ 47-48.) “The next day, Kevin Bowdry, the Director of Nursing, asked [Plaintiff] to consider Ms. Wiig’s offers.  [Plaintiff] refused.” (SAC ¶ 49.)            “In the winter of 2020, multiple employees, including several surgery technicians, were out on leave due to illness.” (SAC ¶ 51.) This required Plaintiff to cover additional surgeries and give up her lunch and work without meal and rest breaks. (SAC ¶¶ 54-56.) Around December of 2020, Plaintiff confronted Mr. Bowdry about the intolerable work conditions including requiring staff to work through lunch without rest breaks, not being properly compensated for all hours worked, and Dr. ElAttrache’s preference for high volume placing patients at risk without their true consent. (SAC ¶¶ 58-60.) Mr. Bowdry dismissed Plaintiff’s concerns. (SAC ¶ 61.)            “On May 17, 2021, [Plaintiff]’s doctor placed her on medical leave so that she could undergo treatment for rheumatoid arthritis.” (SAC ¶ 62.) On or about August 17, 2021, Plaintiff exhausted her 12-week CFRA/FMLA leave and required an extension of medical leave through October 4, 2021 for a total of four months and two weeks of leave. (SAC ¶¶ 63-64.) Such leave had been provided regularly to Plaintiff in the past and to younger employees who took even longer leave. (SAC ¶¶ 65-68.) “[O]n or about October 1, 2021, [Plaintiff]’s doctor notified Kerlan-Jobe that [Plaintiff] was released to return on October 5, 2021, to her full-time position with no restrictions.” (SAC ¶ 69.) However, Defendants terminated Plaintiff even though work was available. (SAC ¶ 70.) Defendants preferred to replace Plaintiff with a younger employee with less experience than Plaintiff and continued to fill surgery technician openings with substantially younger employees. (SAC ¶¶ 71-74.) Legal StandardCode of Civil Procedure Section 2023.030, states in pertinent part: “To the extent authorized by the chapter governing any particular discovery method or any other provision of this title, the court, after notice to any affected party, person, or attorney, and after opportunity for hearing, may impose…[monetary, issue, evidence, or terminating] sanctions against anyone engaging in the misuse of the discovery process….” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subds. (a)-(d).) “Misuses of the discovery process include, but are not limited to…(d) Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery…(g) Disobeying a court order to provide discovery.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.)            “Nevertheless, absent unusual circumstances, such as repeated and egregious discovery abuses, two facts are generally prerequisite to the imposition of a nonmonetary sanction. There must be a failure to comply with a court order and the failure must be willful.” (Lee v. Lee (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 1553, 1559.) “Even where nonmonetary sanctions are called for, they ‘”…’ should be appropriate to the dereliction, and should not exceed that which is required to protect the interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery.’ [Citations] ‘”…[¶] The sanctions the court may impose are such as are suitable and necessary to enable the party seeking discovery to obtain the objects of the discovery he seeks, but the court may not impose sanctions which are designed not to accomplish the objects of discovery but to impose punishment.’”’ [Citations.]” (Biles v. Exxon Mobil Corp. (2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1327.)            “A trial court has broad discretion when imposing a discovery sanction.” (Lee, supra, 175 Cal.App.4th at 1559.) “In exercising this discretion [for nonmonetary sanctions], a variety of factors may be relevant, including, 1) the time which has elapsed since [the discovery requests] were served, 2) whether the party served was previously given a voluntary extension of time, 3) the number of [the discovery requests] propounded, 4) whether the unanswered questions sought information which was difficult to obtain, 5) whether the answers supplied were evasive and incomplete, 6) the number of questions which remained unanswered, 7) whether the questions which remained unanswered are material to a particular claim or defense, 8) whether the answering party has acted in good faith, and with reasonable diligence, 9) the existence of prior orders compelling discovery and the answering party’s response thereto, 10) whether the party was unable to comply with the previous order of the court, 11) whether an order allowing more time to answer would enable the answering party to supply the necessary information, and 12) whether a sanction short of dismissal or default would be appropriate to the dereliction.” (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 796-97.) DiscussionPlaintiff seeks 14 issue sanctions and 15 evidence sanctions on the grounds that Kerlan-Jobe Surgery failed to comply with the June 27, 2023 an August 1, 2023 Orders of the Court. Failure to Comply with the June 27, 2023 OrderThe June 27, 2023 Order required Kerlan-Jobe Surgery to meet and confer with Plaintiff regarding providing responses to SROGs, Set One. Kerlan-Jobe Surgery refused to meet and confer as ordered, which led Plaintiff to file a motion to compel responses to SROGs, Set One. Plaintiff’s motion to compel was granted on August 1, 2023. Kerlan-Jobe Surgery does not deny or admit noncompliance with this order. Nonetheless, the court’s ruling in the subsequent order discussed below suggests that Kerlan-Jobe Surgery did fail to comply with this Order. Failure to Comply with August 1, 2023 Order            The August 1, 2023 Order required Kerlan-Jobe Surgery to serve code-compliant verified responses to SROGs Nos. 1-104, 110-127, Set One at issue without objections within twenty (20) days of notice of this order. On August 4, 2023, Plaintiff gave notice of this order. (Nesbit Decl. ¶ 16.) On August 31, 2023, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery served responses to Plaintiff’s SROGs, Set One. Therefore, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery did timely serve responses to the SROGs, Set One at issue as ordered. However, Plaintiff contends that SROGs Nos. 1-9, 14-15, 16, 21-22, 27-28, 29-31, 33-40, 43-47, 49-50, 53-54, 65-67, 73, 76-77, and 80 are legally invalid, insufficient, evasive, and/or subject to objections. By contrast, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery argues their responses are substantially complaint with this order.Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 2030.220, “(a) Each answer in a response to interrogatories shall be as complete and straightforward as the information reasonably available to the responding party permits… [or] (b) If an interrogatory cannot be answered completely, it shall be answered to the extent possible…. [or] (c) If the responding party does not have personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where the information is equally available to the propounding party.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.220.)Issue and Evidence Sanction No. 1:Plaintiff seeks it be established that during the period of January 1, 2014 through August 30, 2023, Defendant Kerlan-Jobe Surgery Center, LLC (“the Surgery Center”) regularly used medical staffing agencies that provided the Surgery Center with temporary and/or short term surgery technicians on an as needed basis to cover for full-time surgery technicians who were on medical leave to alleviate any hardship caused by their leave on staffing levels and that the Surgery Center is precluded from introducing evidence to the contrary at trial.SROGs Nos. 1-2 requested information regarding any and all medical staffing agencies used by Kerlan-Jobe Surgery during the period of January 1, 2014, through date of production including Medely staffing agency. In response to each of these requests, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery responded it does not have sufficient information or resources to identify all medical staffing agencies used from January l, 2014 through the date of these responses and is informed and believed it has not used any medical staffing agencies for surgical technician positions since at least 2019 but discovery and investigation is ongoing. Here, Kerlan-Job Surgery’s response is code-compliant because they indicate to the extent possible they did not have sufficient information and resources to identify all the medical staffing agencies used from January 1, 2014 through August 30, 2023 but discovery and investigation is ongoing. Further, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery answered to the extent possible that it has not used any medical staffing agencies for the surgical technician positions since 2019. Lastly, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery contends it does not have the records for this time period, so it provided information as reasonably available to it at the time of the response.Issue and Evidence Sanction No. 2:Plaintiff seeks it be established that during the Plaintiff Kristina Holman’s medical leave from May 17, 2021 through October 4, 2021, Defendant Kerlan-Jobe Surgery Center, LLC had per diem surgery technicians available to fill in on an as needed basis to alleviate any hardship posed by Plaintiff Kristina Holman’s medical leave and that Defendant Surgery Center is precluded from introducing evidence to the contrary at trial. SROGs Nos. 3-5 requested information regarding any and all per diem staff, travelers, independent contractors, or temporary employees that could fill the role of a surgery technician or was relied upon by Kerlan-Jobe Surgery from medical staffing agencies hired full-time during the period of January 1, 2014, through date of production. In response to each of these requests, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery responded it does not have sufficient information or resources to identify any and all per diem staff, travelers, independent contractors, or temporary employees that could fill the role of a surgery technician or was relied upon by Kerlan-Jobe Surgery from medical staffing agencies hired full-time during the period of January 1, 2014, through August 30, 2023. Here, Kerlan-Job Surgery’s response is code-compliant because they indicate to the extent possible they did not have sufficient information and resources to identify any and all per diem staff, travelers, independent contractors, or temporary employees that could fill the role of a surgery technician or was relied upon by Kerlan-Jobe Surgery or from medical staffing agencies hired full-time during the period of January 1, 2014, through August 30, 2023. Further, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery answered to the extent possible that any and all per diem staff, travelers, independent contractors, or temporary employees that could fill the role of a surgery technician including from medical staffing agencies have not been hired since at least 2019. Lastly, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery contends it does not have the records for this time period, so it provided information as reasonably available to it at the time of the response.Issue and Evidence Sanction No. 3:  Plaintiff seeks it be established that during the Plaintiff Kristina Holman’s medical leave from May 17, 2021 through October 4, 2021, the cost of retaining a temporary surgery technician from a medical staffing agency to fill in for Kristina Holman during her medical leave would not have been unduly burdensome on Defendant Kerlan-Jobe Surgery Center, LLC and that Defendant is precluded from introducing evidence to the contrary at trial.SROGs Nos. 6-7 requested information regarding any and all costs of using a temporary employee from a medical staffing agency or a per diem employee to fill Plaintiff’s role from the time her “time off had expired” through October 4, 2021 and facts as to how these costs are calculated by Kerlan-Jobe Surgery. In response to each of these requests, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery responded it does not have sufficient information or resources to identify any and all costs of using a temporary employee from a medical staffing agency or a per diem employee to fill Plaintiff's role from the time her "time off had expired" through October 4, 2021. Kerlan-Jobe Surgery responded further that it does not specifically use a temporary employee from a medical staffing agency or a per diem employee for any specific person nor did it contract to do so for Plaintiff’s time off as described herein. Additionally, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery responded it does not have any information in its possession, custody, or control about any costs responsive to these requests. Here, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery’s response is code-compliant because they indicate they did not use any employee from a medical staffing agency or per diem employee to fill Plaintiff’s position during the period her time off expired through October 4, 2021.Issue and Evidence Sanction No. 4:Plaintiff seeks it be established that during the period of May 17, 2021 to October 4, 2021 Defendant Kerlan-Jobe Surgery Center, LLC was not struggling with staffing requiring the Surgery Center to replace Plaintiff Kristina Holman instead of holding her full-time position open and that Defendant is precluded from introducing evidence to the contrary at trial.SROGs Nos. 8, 9, 49-50 requested information regarding the identities, last known telephone numbers, and addresses of any and all persons that worked as surgery technicians and/or fulfilled the duties of a surgery technician at Kerlan-Jobe Surgery between January 1, 2021 through December 31, 2021 including Faran, Andrea, and Charles. In response to each of these requests, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery indicates that it is willing to supplement the response with the contact information subject to a protective order and contends the answer provided was responsive to the information sought by the interrogatories. Kerlan-Jobe Surgery also responded Kevin Bowdry and Faran Hessami may be contacted through Kerlan-Jobe Surgery’s counsel. Moreover, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery answered that Plaintiff knows Charles therefore information concerning him is readily available to her. Kerlan-Jobe Surgery also respondthat it is unaware of any surgery technician by the name Andrea but discovery and investigation is ongoing. Here, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery’s response are code-compliant as they answered SROG No. 8 as requested, which did not seek contact information of these identified persons; indicates that Hessami and Bowdry assumed Plaintiff’s responsibilities during 2021 medical leave; indicate that no records or information is known to them regarding an Andrea; and state that Plaintiff has access to information regarding Charles. Nonetheless, Kerlan-Jobe responded that it will supplement these responses. However, these Kerlan-Jobe Surgery has not shown that providing Plaintiff the full name, last known telephone numbers, and addresses of the identified parties would be such a burden of pervasive invasion of privacy that Plaintiff cannot request such information through discovery.Issue and Evidence Sanction No. 5:Plaintiff seeks it be established that during Plaintiff’s tenure, Anna Catan was substantially younger than Plaintiff Kristina Holman and that Defendant is precluded from introducing evidence to the contrary at trial.SROGs Nos. 14, 15 requested information regarding the identity of the person named Anna referenced in an email dated October 5, 2021 and her birthdate. In response to each of these requests, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery responded with Anna’s first and last name but objected to providing her birthdate on the grounds of third party privacy. Here, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery’s response to SROG No. 14 is code-complaint because it answers in a straightforward manner that the person referenced as Anna in the email dated October 5, 2021 is Anna Catan. However, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery’s response to SROG No. 15 is a meritless objection because it has not shown that providing Plaintiff with Anna Catan’s birthdate would be such a pervasive invasion of privacy that Plaintiff cannot request such information through discovery.Issue and Evidence Sanction No. 6:Plaintiff seeks it be established that Anna going out/leaving Defendant Kerlan-Jobe Surgery Center, LLC  (“the Surgery Center”) as stated in the Kevin Bowdry’s October 5, 2021 email did not cause struggles with staffing preventing the Surgery Center from holding Plaintiff Kristina Holman’s full-time position open during her 2021 medical leave and that Defendant Kerlan-Jobe Surgery Center, LLC is precluded from introducing evidence to the contrary at trial.SROGs No. 16 requested information regarding when Anna Catan first took a leave of absence as referenced in an email to Plaintiff dated October 5, 2021. In response to this request, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery stated Anna Catan did not take a medical leave of absence in 2021. Here, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery’s response is evasive and/or incomplete because the interrogatory asks about a leave of absence but does not specify a medical leave of absence, thus Kerlan-Job Surgery should have provided a response answering if Anna Catan took any other types of leave.Issue and Evidence Sanction No. 7:  Plaintiff seeks it be established that around December 2021 Defendant Kerlan-Jobe Surgery Center, LLC allowed Anna to return to her full-time surgery technician positions even though Anna’s leave was longer than Plaintiff Kristina Holman’s medical leave from May 17, 2021 through October 4, 2021 and that Defendant Kerlan-Jobe Surgery Center, LLC is precluded from introducing evidence to the contrary at trial.SROGs Nos. 21-22 requested information regarding the date Anna Catan returned to work after being vaccinated and identifying all persons who filled Anna Catan’s responsibilities while she was out due to being unvaccinated. In response to these requests, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery objected on the grounds of third party privacy rights. Here, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery’s responses are non-compliant because it has not shown that providing Plaintiff the date Anna Catan returned to work and the identities of the persons who filled in for Anna Catan while she was out would be such a pervasive invasion of privacy that Plaintiff cannot request such information through discovery.Issue and Evidence Sanction No. 8:Plaintiff seeks it be established that Kristopher going out/leaving Kerlan-Jobe Surgery Center  (“the Surgery Center”) as stated in the Kevin Bowdry’s October 5, 2021 email did not cause struggles with staffing preventing the Surgery Center from holding Plaintiff’s full-time position open during her 2021 medical leave, from May 17 to October 4, 2021 and that Defendant is precluded from introducing evidence to the contrary at trial.SROGs Nos. 27-28, 53-54 requested information regarding who replaced Kristopher Neely and/or fulfilled his duties while he was out as indicated in an email to Plaintiff dated October 5, 2021; when they replaced Kristopher; the full name, last known telephone number, and address of surgery technician Enrique hired in 2021; and the date Enrique first started working at Kerlan-Jobe Surgery. In response to these requests, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery indicates Kristopher did not take a leave of absence in 2021 and objects to providing a response relating to information about Enrique on the grounds of third party privacy rights. Here, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery’s answers to SROGs Nos. 27-28 are code-complaint because they respond in a straightforward manner that Kristopher did not take a leave of absence in 2021, which suggests there would be no information available regarding who “replaced” Kristopher. However, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery has not shown that providing Plaintiff the full name, last known telephone number, and address of surgery technician Enrique hired in 2021and the date Enrique first started working at Kerlan-Jobe Surgery would be such a pervasive invasion of privacy that Plaintiff cannot request such information through discovery.Issue and Evidence Sanction Nos. 9 and 10:Plaintiff seeks it be established that during the period of January 1, 2014 through October 31, 2021, the Surgery Center regularly accommodated employee medical leaves far longer than Plaintiff Kristina Holman’s medical leave in 2021 (from May 7, 2021 through October 4, 2021) and that Defendant is precluded from introducing evidence to the contrary at trial.  Plaintiff further seeks it be established that during the period of January 1, 2014 through October 31, 2021, the Surgery Center regularly held positions open for employees on far longer medical leaves Plaintiff Kristina Holman’s medical leave in 2021 (from May 7, 2021 through October 4, 2021) and allowed these other employees to return to work and that Defendant is precluded from introducing evidence to the contrary at trial.  SROGs Nos. 29-31, 33-40 requested information regarding the identities of persons employed by Kerlan-Jobe Surgery who went on leave longer than Plaintiff’s leave in 2021 from January 1, 2014 through August 30, 2023 including Manny Perez; whether these persons were allowed to return to work; the date they were allowed to return; and their birthdate. In response to these requests, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery states it does not have the sufficient information and resources to respond, Plaintiff refused to clarify the scope and time, the request is irrelevant, and objected on the grounds of third party privacy rights. Here, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery’s responses are non-complaint because the requests are relevant to determining whether or not staff younger than Plaintiff were allowed to return to work and Kerlan-Jobe Surgery has not shown that providing the information requested would be such a pervasive invasion of privacy that Plaintiff cannot request such information through discovery.Issue and Evidence Sanction No. 11:Plaintiff seeks it be established that the week of October 1, 2021 when Plaintiff Kristina Holman was released to work, Defendant Kerlan-Jobe Surgery Center, LLC had an opening for a full-time surgery technician position and Defendant Kerlan-Jobe Surgery Center, LLC and is precluded from introducing evidence to the contrary at trial.SROGs No. 43 requested information regarding the identities of all surgery technicians who first started working at Kerlan-Jobe Surgery in October 2021. In response to this request, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery responded that upon information and belief there are no surgery technicians that were hired to work for it in October 2021. Here, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery’s answer is not code-complaint because it evades the request inquiry into who started working at Kerlan-Jobe Surgery in October 2021 not who was hired.Issue and Evidence Sanction No. 12:Plaintiff seeks it be established that Defendant Kerlan-Jobe Surgery Center, LLC anticipated additional openings for a full-time surgery technician position soon after Plaintiff Kristina Holman was released to work from her 2021 medical leave and that Defendant Kerlan-Jobe Surgery Center, LLC is precluded from introducing evidence to the contrary at trial.SROGs Nos. 44-47 requested information regarding the identities of all surgery technicians who first started working at Kerlan-Jobe Surgery in November and December 2021, and all surgery technicians who left between October 5, 2021 and April 2022. In response to each of these requests, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery indicates that upon information and belief there are no surgery technicians that were hired to work for it in November and December 2021, and objected to providing the identities of all surgery technicians who left Kerlan-Jobe Surgery between October 5, 2021 and April 2022 on the grounds of third party privacy rights. Here, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery’s responses are not code-complaint because it evades the request inquiry into who started working at Kerlan-Jobe Surgery in November and December 2021 not who was hired. Further, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery has not shown that providing Plaintiff with the identities of all surgery technicians who left Kerlan-Jobe Surgery between October 5, 2021 and April 2022 would be such a pervasive invasion of privacy that Plaintiff cannot request such information through discovery.Evidence Sanction No. 13:  Plaintiff seeks that Defendant Kerlan-Jobe Surgery Center be estopped from challenging punitive damages award based Defendant’s ability to pay an award of punitive damages or lack of evidence of financial condition.SROGs Nos. 65-66 requested information regarding any and all documents which evidence Kerlan-Jobe Surgery’s profits and financial condition, and identities of persons who are employed by Kerlan-Jobe Surgery or related to Kerlan-Jobe Surgery who would be most competent to testify regarding this information. In response to these requests, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery states that the interrogatories are premature and the information is not subject to disclosure at this time because there has been no finding Plaintiff is entitled to exemplary damages. Here, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery’s answer is not code-complaint and merely serves an objection when Kerlan was ordered to serve responses without objections.Issue and Evidence Sanction No. 14:  Plaintiff seeks it be established that during the period of January 1, 2014 to October 31, 2021, Defendant Kerlan-Jobe Surgery Center did not follow, maintain or establish any corporate formalities including but not limited to, it did not issue stock, maintain and/or follow corporate bylaws, elect its own officers, etc., and that Defendant is precluded from producing evidence to the contrary at trial.SROGs No. 67 requested information regarding the identities of any and all Corporate Formalities followed, maintained, and/or established by Kerlan-Jobe Surgery. In response to this request, Kerlan-Jobe states it maintains all corporate formalities required by California law. Here, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery’s response is nonresponsive to the interrogatory because it does not identify any or all the corporate formalities it purports to maintain.Issue and Evidence Sanction No. 15:Plaintiff seeks it be deemed established that all Defendants in this action, including Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Cedars-Sinai Medical Care Foundation, Kerlan-Jobe Orthopaedic Clinic, were shareholders and/or owners of Defendant Kerlan-Jobe Surgery Center, LLC (“the Surgery Center”) and that the Surgery Center is precluded from introducing evidence to the contrary at trial.SROGs Nos. 73, 76-77 requested information regarding the identities of any and all of Kerlan-Jobe Surgery’s shareholders and entities with ownership interest in Kerlan-Jobe Surgery. In response to each of these requests, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery states that ISS ASC Holdings, LLC has majority ownership in Kerlan-Jobe Surgery. Here, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery’s responses are incomplete because they only identify one shareholder/entity that has ownership interest in it but does not identify the minority shareholders/entities that have ownership interest in it.Issue and Evidence Sanction No. 16:Plaintiff seeks it deemed established that during the period of January 1, 2014 through October 31, 2021, the Administrator of Defendant Kerlan-Jobe Surgery Center, LLC (“the Surgery Center”) was supervised by a representative of Cedars-Sinai Medical Center and that the Surgery Center is precluded from introducing evidence to the contrary at trial. SROGs No. 80 requested information regarding the identities of any and all Cedar-Sinai designees assigned to any administrator position as reflected on page 14 of Kerlan-Jobe Surgery Center Handbook attached as Exhibit 12. In response to this request, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery indicated that it was not aware of any Cedar-Sinai designee assigned to an administrator position. Here, Kerlan-Jobe Surgery’s answer is code-complaint because it responds in a straightforward manner that it is not aware of anyone assigned as Cedar-Sinai designee to any administrator position. The Court finds that Kerlan-Jobe Surgery failed to comply with the August 1, 2023 order as it pertains to SROGs Nos. 9, 15-16, 21-22, 29-31, 33-40, 43-47, 49-50, 65-66, 73, 76-77. However, there is only one prior order compelling responses from Kerlan-Jobe Surgery regarding these discovery responses. Furthermore, out of 127 SROGs propounded on Kerlan-Jobe Surgery, Plaintiff only raised issues with 41 of them, which suggests that a majority of Kerlan-Jobe Surgery’s responses were substantially compliant with the August 1, 2023 order. Thus, under all the circumstances imposition of issue and evidence sanctions at this time would be unjust. Request for Monetary Sanctions            “If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (a).)            Plaintiff requests monetary sanctions in the total amount of $8,321.65 at an hourly rate of $590.00 for (1) 10.0 hours spent researching and reviewing case law, drafting the Notice  of Motion and Motion, Separate statement, and accompanying declarations; (2) review of Defendant’s prior discovery responses; (3) anticipates 5.0 hours reviewing the opposition papers, preparing the reply, and attending the hearing; and (4) $61.65 filing fee. Plaintiff has shown that Kerlan-Jobe Surgery failed to comply with the August 1, 2023 order concerning SROGs Nos. 9, 15-16, 21-22, 29-31, 33-40, 43-47, 49-50, 65-66, 73, 76-77. Plaintiff also had to review the opposition and filed a reply brief. Kerlan-Jobe Surgery has not demonstrated it acted with substantial justification or any other circumstances that would make imposition of monetary sanctions unjust.             Thus, the court imposes monetary sanctions against Defendant Kerlan-Jobe Surgery Center, LLC in the amount of $8,911.65 for 15.0 hours expended on this matter at an hourly rate of $590.00, plus $61.65. CONCLUSION AND ORDER            Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff Kristina Holman’s Motion for Issue and Evidence Sanctions against Defendant Kerlan-Jobe Surgery Center, LLC for Failure to Obey Court Orders Re to Plaintiff’s Specially Prepared Interrogatories, Set One is DENIED                 Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions is  GRANTED in the amount of $8,911.65.     Defendant Kerlan-Jobe is ordered to serve code-compliant responses within 20 days. The parties are ordered to meet and confer in person regarding the 3 discovery motions set for hearing on April 23, 24 and 30 in an effort to resolve all or part of the discovery dispute. The parties are ordered to notify the Court by April 15, 2024 if the motions will go forward as set.                            Moving Party to give notice. DATED: April 9, 2024                                                                                     ___________________________                                                                              Yolanda Orozco                                                                              Judge of the Superior Court