  Case Number:  20STCV47703    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  26 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26
 



 
ANDRES ALVARINO
  YAYA, on behalf of himself and all others aggrieved employees,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS CLINICAL LABORATORIES, INC. and DOES 1-50, inclusive,
 
                        Defendants.


 
 Case No.: 20STCV47703
 
 Hearing Date: April 9, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
DEFENDANT QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INC.’S MOTION
  FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS
 
 



 
Background
On
December 14, 2020, Plaintiff Andres Alvarino Yaya (“Plaintiff”) filed the
operative Complaint against Defendant Quest
Diagnostics Incorporated, erroneously sued as Quest Diagnostics
Clinical Laboratories, Inc. (“Defendant”) and DOES 1-50, inclusive, asserting a
cause of action for Civil Penalties under the Private Attorneys General Act
(“PAGA”). 
On
March 14, 2024, Defendant filed this instant motion for judgment on the
pleadings. On March 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed his opposition. On April 2, 2024,
Defendant filed its reply. 
Allegations of the
Operative Complaint
The Complaint
alleges as follows:
            On or about January 11, 2010,
Defendant hired Plaintiff as a phlebotomist or other like position and his last
day of employment was on August 5, 2020. (Compl. ¶ 11.) Plaintiff and aggrieved
employees were paid approximately $20.00 per hour and on many occasions would
work more than 8.0 hours per day or 40.0 hours per week without overtime pay.
(Compl. ¶¶ 12-13.) Plaintiff and aggrieved employees would be subject to an
illegal time rounding policy regarding their compensable work time. (Compl. ¶
14.) 
            Employer regularly did not have
enough employees to provide sufficient coverage to maintain their business
operations so Plaintiff and similarly aggrieved employees could not take
complete, timely, and uninterrupted meal and rest breaks. (Compl. ¶ 15.) 
            Labor Code Section 2699, subdivision
(a) states that any provision of the Labor Code that provides for a civil
penalty to be assessed and collected by the LWDA or any of its departments,
divisions, commissions, boards, agencies, or employees for violation of the
code may, as an alternative, be recovered through a civil action brought by an
aggrieved employee on behalf of himself or herself and other aggrieved
employees. (Compl. ¶ 16.) Subdivision (f) imposes upon Defendant a penalty of
one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each aggrieved employee per pay period for
the initial violation and two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each aggrieved
employee per pay period for each subsequent pay period in which Defendant
violated these provisions of the Labor Code. (Compl. ¶ 17.)
            Defendant’s conduct during the PAGA
period with respect to Plaintiff and other aggrieved employees violates
numerous Labor Code sections. (Compl. ¶ 18.) 
Defendant
has engaged in a systematic pattern of wage and hour violations under the
California Labor Code and IWC Wage Orders. (Compl. ¶ 19.) 
Defendant
employed Plaintiff and the aggrieved employees as non-exempt employees. (Compl.
¶ 20.) 
Defendant
knew or should have known Plaintiff and other aggrieved employees were entitled
to receive wages for all hours worked including applicable minimum, regular,
and overtime wages, and that they were not receiving all wages earned for work
that was required to be performed. (Compl. ¶ 21.) In violation of the Labor
Code and IWC Wage Orders, Defendant failed to pay Plaintiff and aggrieved
employees’ for all hours worked. (Id.) 
Defendant
knew or should have known that Plaintiff and aggrieved employees were entitled
to receive all required meal periods or payment of one (1) additional hour of
pay at Plaintiff and aggrieved employees’ regular rate of pay when they did not
receive a timely, uninterrupted off-duty meal period. (Compl. ¶ 22.) In
violation of the Labor Code and IWC Wage Orders, Defendant had a pattern,
practice, and policy of not providing timely meal periods and failed to pay an
additional hour of pay to Plaintiff and aggrieved employees for late meal
periods. (Id.) 
Defendant
knew or should have known that Plaintiff and aggrieved employees were entitled
to receive all required rest
periods or payment of one (1) additional hour of pay at Plaintiff and aggrieved
employees’ regular rate of pay when they did not receive a timely,
uninterrupted off-duty rest period. (Compl. ¶ 23.) In violation of the Labor
Code and IWC Wage Orders, Defendant had a pattern, practice, and policy of not
providing timely rest periods and failed to pay an additional hour of pay to
Plaintiff and aggrieved employees for each rest periods was not provided or was
interrupted. (Id.) 
Defendant
knew or should have known that Plaintiff and certain aggrieved employees were
entitled to timely payment of wages due upon separation of employment. (Compl.
¶ 24.) In violation of the Labor Code, Plaintiff and certain aggrieved
employees did not receive payment of all wages due, within permissible time
periods, upon separation of employment. (Id.) 
Defendant
knew or should have known that Plaintiff and aggrieved employees were entitled
to receive itemized wage statements that accurately showed their actual hours
worked, total hours worked, number of hours worked at each hourly rate, gross
and net wages earned, and correct employer information in accordance with
California law. (Compl. ¶ 25.) In violation of the Labor Code, Plaintiff and
aggrieved employees were not provided with accurate itemized wage statements
that accurately and clearly reported their gross and net wages earned, total
hours worked, each applicable rate of pay in effect during the pay period with
the corresponding number of hours worked, and the address of the legal entity
that is the employer, among other things. 
(Id.) 
Defendant
knew or should have known that Defendant was required to maintain accurate
records of the hours worked by Plaintiff and aggrieved employees. (Compl. ¶
26.) In violation of the Labor Code, Defendant failed to maintain accurate
records of hours worked by Plaintiff and aggrieved employees due to its unfair rounding
practices, among other things. (Id.) 
Request for
Judicial Notice 
Defendant request the Court take judicial notice of: 
A.   
Second Amended
Complaint dated 9/20/21 of the Superior Court of the State of California,
County of Sacramento in Case No. 34-2019-00271174 entitled Aaron Bigornia
and Lawanda Lasha House Johnson vs. Quest Diagnostics Incorporated, a Nevada
Corporation
B.   
Exhibit A to the
Exhibit List and Exhibits in Support of Plaintiffs’ Motion to Approve Private
Attorneys General Act Settlement (Proposed Private Attorneys General Act
Settlement) dated 9/24/21 of the Superior Court of the State of California,
County of Sacramento in Case No. 34-2019-00271174 entitled Aaron Bigornia
and Lawanda Lasha House Johnson vs. Quest Diagnostics Incorporated, a Nevada
Corporation
C.   
Order Granting
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Approve Private Attorneys General Act Settlement dated
10/26/21 of the Superior Court of the State of California, County of Sacramento
in Case No. 34-2019-00271174 entitled Aaron Bigornia and Lawanda Lasha House
Johnson vs. Quest Diagnostics Incorporated, a Nevada Corporation
D.   
Declaration of
Jennifer Beliveau, which contains evidence of the process of settlement
administration performed as part of a Court Order and court-appointed duties in
the settlement of the Superior Court of the State of California, County of
Sacramento in Case No. 34-2019-00271174 entitled Aaron Bigornia and Lawanda
Lasha House Johnson vs. Quest Diagnostics Incorporated, a Nevada Corporation
As the court may
take judicial notice of court records of any court in this state and facts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and capable of
immediate and accurate determination, (See Evid. Code, §§ 452(d), (h),
and 453), the request for judicial notice is granted. 
Legal Standard
The
standard for ruling on a motion for judgment on the pleadings is essentially
the same as that applicable to a general demurrer, that is, under the state of
the pleadings, together with matters that may be judicially noticed, it appears
that a party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. (Bezirdjian v.
O'Reilly (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 316, 321-322, citing Schabarum v.
California Legislature (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1205, 1216.) Matters
which are subject to mandatory judicial notice may be treated as part of the
complaint and may be considered without notice to the parties. Matters which
are subject to permissive judicial notice must be specified in the notice of
motion, the supporting points and authorities, or as the court otherwise
permits. (Id.) The motion may not be supported by extrinsic
evidence. (Barker v. Hull (1987) 191 Cal.App.3d 221, 236.) 
When
the moving party is a defendant, he or she must demonstrate that “The court has
no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the complaint”
or “The complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action against that defendant.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
438(c)(1)(B)(i)-(ii).)   
Meet and Confer
Requirement 
A
motion for judgment on the pleadings must be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration demonstrating an attempt to meet and confer in person or by
telephone, at least five days before the date a motion for judgment on the
pleadings is filed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 439.)  
            Defendant has fulfilled the meet and
confer requirement. (Nofri Decl.¶¶ 2-4; Exs. 1-2.) 
Discussion
PAGA Action
Defendant
contends the entire Complaint is barred by res judicata due to the
court-approved PAGA settlement in Bigornia, et al. vs. Quest Diagnostics
Incorporated, Sacramento County Superior Court, Case No. 34-2019-00271174,
filed December 11, 2019 (“Bigornia Action”). Furthermore, Defendant argues the
settlement agreed upon by the parties to the Bigornia Action (“Bigornia
Settlement”) released claims for PAGA penalties on behalf of all California
non-exempt employees of Defendant including Plaintiff, who worked for Defendant
between October 8, 2018 through September 30, 2021. Defendant also asserts the
Bigornia Action contained and released the same California wage and hour
allegations that Plaintiff alleges here including that Defendant failed to
compensate California employees for all hours worked and failed to provide
compliant meal periods or correct compensation in lieu thereof and Labor Code
Section 2699 remedies. Moreover, Defendant argues the Bigornia Settlement is
final and binding on Plaintiff who received notice of the settlement and was
mailed a check for his share of the proceeds distributable to aggrieved
employees such as him. Likewise, Defendant asserts due to the court-approved
Bigornia Settlement, the Sacramento Superior Court dismissed the Bigornia
Action with prejudice, which constitutes a final judgment on the merits. (See
RJN, Ex. 3.) Additionally, Defendant argues the claims in the Bigornia
Action are identical to the claims in this present action because they assert
claims for failure to pay all hours worked, failure to pay overtime, failure to
provide meal and rest periods, failure to provide accurate wage statements, and
waiting time penalties, based on Defendant’s alleged policy and practice of
failing to provide its non-exempt California employees with compliant meal
periods or compensation in lieu thereof and failing to compensate employees for
all time worked. (See RJN, Ex. 1: Bigornia Johnson SAC, ¶¶
25-28.) Defendant further argues the fact that Plaintiff may contend he is
raising new legal theories would not save his claims either because res
judicata also bars litigation of issues that could have been litigated in
the prior action because Plaintiff predicates these causes of action upon the
same set of facts regarding his employment and termination from Defendant,
which are within the scope of both actions. Lastly, Defendant contends the
Bigornia Action involved Plaintiff as an alleged aggrieved employee and
Defendant who was explicitly named as a released Defendant in the Bigornia
Settlement. 
In opposition,
Plaintiff argues the Bigornia Settlement did not settle any of his  personal claims, PAGA claims based on Labor
Code Section 2802 violations, and PAGA claims based on violations that occurred
after the time period covered by the Bigornia Settlement. Plaintiff further
argues the release in the Bigornia Settlement only releases wage and hour
related claims that arise out of facts asserted in the operative complaint in
that action not PAGA claims outside of those asserted in that action or PAGA claim
period. (See RJN, Ex. 2, pp. 4-5 ¶¶ 1.10, 1.25.) As such, Plaintiff
contends the claims in the Bigornia Action are not identical to the claims in
this instant lawsuit because it does not allege violations of Labor Code
Section 2802 for failure to reimburse expenses, never exhausted their
administrative remedies as to that section, and that section was not ever
released. Similarly, Plaintiff asserts these claims are based on separate
factual allegations and make up different primary rights, so res judicata
is inapplicable here. In addition, Plaintiff contends Defendant did not
participate in adequate meet and confer prior to filing this motion because the
brief bullet points do not cover this instant motion. Finally, Plaintiff argues
in absence of denial, leave to amend should be granted because this is the
first challenge to his PAGA claims since the filing of this action.  
In reply, Defendant
asserts Plaintiff does not dispute that the Bigornia Settlement foreclosed him
from bringing his meal break, rest break, overtime, minimum wages, wage
statement, and waiting penalties claims for the time period covered by the
Bigornia Settlement. Furthermore, Defendant contends Plaintiff does not assert
any personal claims in this instant action nor does he seek to do so upon
amendment, so it is immaterial whether the Bigornia Settlement released his
personal claims. Similarly, Defendant argues Plaintiff’s Complaint does not
presently contain an expense reimbursement claim under Labor Code Section 2802,
which was only mentioned in his PAGA letter. As such, Defendant argues
Plaintiff’s expense reimbursement claim under Labor Code Section 2802 is
time-barred and extinguished by the Bigornia Settlement under res judicata
because the last date for Plaintiff to file a claim related to his allegation
under Labor Code Section 2802 was one (1) year and sixty-five (65) days from
his date of termination, August 5, 2020, on October 9, 2021. Defendant also
argues Plaintiff had sixty (60) days to amend the Complaint to add this Labor
Code Section but chose not to. Likewise, Defendant asserts Plaintiff was
obligated to either raise the Labor Code Section 2802 violation claim when
notified of the Bigornia Settlement and intervene, object to the settlement, or
appeal from the final order approving that settlement to preserve his claim but
did none of those things. Thus, Defendant argues amendment of the complaint would
prove futile and Plaintiff has unduly delayed in bringing an expense
reimbursement claim. Lastly, Defendant asserts it attempted to meet and confer
in good faith regarding this motion. 
“Res judicata
applies if (1) the decision in the prior proceeding is final and on the merits;
(2) the present proceeding is on the same cause of action as the prior
proceeding; and (3) the parties in the present proceeding or parties in privity
with them were parties to the prior proceeding.” (Fed’n of Hillside &
Canyon Ass’ns v. City of Los Angeles (2004) 126 Cal.App.4th 1180, 1202) Furthermore,
“[r]es judicata bars the litigation not only of issues that were actually
litigated but also issues that could have been litigated.” (Id.)
Similarly, in Villacres
v. ABM Indus. Inc. (2010) 189 Cal. App. 4th 562, the court held the
doctrine of res judicata applied because “[i]n response to the Notice,
Villacres could have (1) objected to the proposed settlement on the ground it
should have included additional Labor Code violations and corresponding PAGA
penalties, (2) sought to intervene in Augustus to pursue the same goal,
or (3) opted out of the settlement and preserved his right to bring an
independent action.” (Villacres v. ABM Indus. Inc. (2010) 189 Cal. App.
4th 562, 582.) 
The court finds
that Plaintiff’s case is barred by the doctrine of res judicata, thus it
warrants dismissal of the action. Defendants have shown that (1) Plaintiff’s
PAGA claims constitute the same cause of action alleged and settled in the
Bigornia Action and Settlement; (2) Plaintiff was a member of the class in the
Bigornia Action; and (3) Plaintiff was in privity with the Plaintiffs in the
Bigornia Action. Further, Plaintiff does not dispute that he was a class member
in the Bigornia Action; that his Complaint as currently pled contains the same
causes of action and allegations as the Bigornia Action as it relates to
failure to provide meal and rest breaks, compensate in lieu of those breaks,
and failure to pay overtime wages; or that he received notice and a check of
his share of the Bigornia Settlement. Moreover, Plaintiff’s Complaint does not
contain any allegations nor a cause of action under Labor Code Section 2802 for
expense reimbursement. Additionally, there is no indication that Plaintiff objected
to the proposed Bigornia Settlement to include the Labor Code Section 2802
violation despite having notice, sought to intervene the Bigornia Action to
include that Labor Code section claim, or opted-out of the settlement to
preserve his right to bring this claim in an independent action. 
Conclusion and ORDER
            Based on the foregoing, Defendant Quest Diagnostics Incorporated, erroneously
sued as, Quest Diagnostics Clinical Laboratories, Inc.’s motion for
judgment on the pleadings is GRANTED without Leave to Amend. 
            Moving Party to give notice and
prepare a form of  judgment. 
DATED: April 9, 2024 
                                                                        ___________________________
                                                                  Yolanda
Orozco
                                                                  Judge
of the Superior Court