 Case Number:  23STCV19867    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  26 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26
 



 
KATIA ZARNEGAR,
  et al., 
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
KAMBIZ ZARNEGAR, et al., 
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  23STCV19867
 
  Hearing Date: April 10, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
CROSS-defendants Katia Zarnegar and Gita
  Zarnegar’s special motion to strike the CROSS-complaint



 
Procedural Background
            On August 18, 2023, Plaintiffs Katia
Zarnegar and Gita Zarnegar (“Plaintiffs”) filed the instant action against
Defendants Kambiz Zarnegar, 21st Santa Monica Investments, LLC, and “All
Persons Unknown, Claiming Any Legal Or Equitable Right, Title, Estate, Lien, Or
Interest In The Property Described In The Complaint Adverse To Plaintiffs’
Title, Or Any Cloud Upon Plaintiffs’ Title Thereto,” alleging (1) Fraud; (2)
Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (3) Constructive/Resulting Trust; (4) Accounting; (5)
Negligence; (6) Violation of California Business and Professions Code sections
17200 et seq; (7) Dissolution of Limited Liability Company; (8) Violation of
California Corporations Code section 17704.10; (9) Quiet Title; and (10)
Partition.
            On November 1, 2023,
Cross-Complainants Kambiz Zarnegar and Marina Zarnegar filed a cross-complaint
against Cross-Defendants Katia Zarnegar and Gita Zarnegar for (1) Fraud –
Concealment; and (2) Declaratory Relief.
            On December 18, 2023,
Cross-Defendants filed the instant special motion to strike the
cross-complaint.  On March 5, 2024,
Cross-Complainants filed an opposition. 
On March 29, 2024, Cross-Defendants filed a reply. 
Allegations of the
Operative Cross-Complaint
            The Cross-Complaint alleges the
following:
Kambiz
Zarnegar is a member and the Manager of 21st Santa Monica Investments, LLC (the
“Company”), owning 66.66% of the total membership interest.  (Cross-Complaint ¶ 9.)  The Company has two other members, each
owning 16.67% of the membership units. 
(Cross-Complaint ¶ 10.)  The
Company is governed by an Operating Agreement dated January 14, 2014, signed by
all members.  (Cross-Complaint ¶
11.)  The Company owns a property at 1223
21st Street, Santa Monica, California (the “Property”), a multi-unit apartment
building generating rental income. 
(Cross-Complaint ¶ 12.) 
Kambiz
Zarnegar purchased the Property in April 1988 and transferred it to the Company
in March 2014.  (Cross-Complaint ¶¶
13-14.)  Due to his mother’s
deteriorating health, Kambiz Zarnegar intended to gift a portion of the
Property ownership to Katia Zarnegar despite foreseeing complications due to
their strained relationship. 
(Cross-Complaint ¶ 15.)  Efforts
to gift the property share to Katia Zarnegar failed, leading to an informal
mediation on December 30, 2021, with Rabbi Yuval Noff, aimed at resolving
family disputes.  (Cross-Complaint ¶¶
16-18.)  
The
mediation resulted in a Settlement Agreement, which proposed to give Katia
Zarnegar a 25% interest in the Company among other stipulations, prepared by
Rabbi Noff and signed by all parties involved. 
(Cross-Complaint ¶ 19.)  A
follow-up Term Sheet on September 7, 2022, outlined the execution of the
Settlement Agreement’s terms.  However,
Katia Zarnegar refused to sign the Amended Operating Agreement required to
formalize the gift, demanding more control over the Company and Property.  (Cross-Complaint ¶¶ 20-22.)  
Cross-Complainants
later discovered that Rabbi Noff was bribed by Katia Zarnegar and Gita Zarnegar
to influence the mediation, leading to a Settlement Agreement procured through
fraud.  (Cross-Complaint ¶¶ 23-25.)  On May 18, 2023, Cross-Complainants rescinded
the Settlement Agreement due to its fraudulent procurement, as stated in a
letter to Katia Zarnegar’s attorney. 
(Cross-Complaint ¶ 27.)
 
Legal Standard
“If a defendant brings a special motion under the
anti-SLAPP statute [CCP § 425.16] to strike a cause of action, the trial court
evaluates that motion using a two-step process: The first step examines the
nature of the conduct that underlies the plaintiff's allegations to determine
whether the conduct is protected by section 425.16; the second step assesses
the merits of the plaintiff’s claim. [Citation]” (Laker v. Board of Trustees of California State University (2019) 32
Cal.App.5th 745, 759.)
“The defendant’s first-step burden is to identify
the activity each challenged claim rests on and demonstrate that the activity
is protected by the anti-SLAPP statute. A ‘claim may be struck only if the
speech or petitioning activity itself is the wrong complained of, and
not just evidence of liability or a step leading to some different act for
which liability is asserted.’ [Citation.] 
To determine whether a claim arises from protected activity, courts must
‘consider the elements of the challenged claim and what actions by the
defendant supply those elements and consequently form the basis for liability.’
[Citation.]  Courts then must evaluate
whether the defendant has shown any of these actions fall within one or more of
the four categories of ‘act[s]’ protected by the anti-SLAPP statute.
[Citations.]”  (Wilson v. Cable News
Network, Inc. (2019) 7 Cal.5th 871, 884 [italics in original].)
“In the first step of the analysis, the trial court
determines whether the cause of action ‘arises from’ an ‘‘‘act in furtherance
of a person’s right of petition or free speech under the United States or
California Constitution in connection with a public issue.’’’ [Citation] The
first step of the anti-SLAPP analysis ‘turns on two subsidiary questions: (1)
What conduct does the challenged cause of action ‘arise[] from’; and (2) is
that conduct ‘protected activity’ under the anti-SLAPP statute?’ [Citation]” (Laker, supra, 32 Cal.App.5th. at p.760.) 
“The Supreme Court has clarified that ‘arising from’
means ‘based on.’ [Citation] This element of the first step of the anti-SLAPP
analysis is sometimes referred to as the ‘nexus’ requirement. [Citation]
Conduct constitutes ‘protected activity,’ if it falls within one of the
categories set out in section 425.16, subdivision (e). Section 425.16,
subdivision (e), in turn, applies to (1) ‘any written or oral statement or
writing made before a legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any
other official proceeding authorized by law’; (2) ‘in connection with an issue
under consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or
any other official proceeding authorized by law’; (3) ‘in a place open to the
public or a public forum in connection with an issue of public interest’; or
(4) ‘any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional
right of petition or the constitutional right of free speech in connection with
a public issue or an issue of public interest.’ [Citation] The defendant
bringing the anti-SLAPP motion to strike must make a prima facie showing that
the allegations that form the basis of the plaintiff's claims arise from
conduct that falls under one of these categories. [Citation]” (Ibid.)
“If the defendant prevails in this step of the
analysis, the trial court must then assess the merits of the plaintiff's claim.
The Supreme Court has described this second step of the SLAPP analysis as a
‘summary-judgment-like procedure.’ [Citation.] 
The plaintiff carries the burden of demonstrating that its claim has ‘at
least ‘minimal merit.’’ [Citation.] If the plaintiff is unable to demonstrate
that his or her claim has at least minimal merit, then the trial court should
deem the cause of action a SLAPP and should strike it. [Citation.]” (Ibid.) 

            At
this “second stage of an anti-SLAPP hearing, the court may consider affidavits,
declarations, and their equivalents if it is reasonably possible the proffered
evidence set out in those statements will be admissible at trial. Conversely,
if the evidence relied upon cannot be admitted at trial, because it is
categorically barred or undisputed factual circumstances show inadmissibility,
the court may not consider it in the face of an objection. If an evidentiary
objection is made, the plaintiff may attempt to cure the asserted defect or
demonstrate the defect is curable.” (Sweetwater Union High School Dist. v.
Gilbane Building Co. (2019) 6 Cal.5th 931, 949.)
            The
trial court properly considers the evidentiary submissions of both the
plaintiff and the defendant, but it may not weigh the credibility or
comparative strength of the evidence and must instead simply determine whether
the plaintiff’s evidence would, if believed by the trier of fact, be sufficient
to result in a judgment for plaintiff. (McGarry v. Univ. of San Diego
(2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 97, 108-09.) The court “accept[s] as true the evidence
favorable to the plaintiff [citation] and evaluate[s] the defendant’s evidence
only to determine if it has defeated that submitted by the plaintiff as a
matter of law.’ [Citations.]” (Flatley v. Mauro (2006) 39 Cal.4th 299,
326.) Further, whether or not the evidence is in conflict, in the context of a
motion to strike under the anti-SLAPP statute, if the plaintiff has presented a
sufficient pleading and has presented evidence showing that a prima facie case
will be established at trial, the plaintiff is entitled to proceed. (Moore
v. Shaw (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 182, 193.) Only a minimal showing of merit
is required. (Robinzine v. Vicory (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 1416, 1421.)
 
Discussion
First Prong: Protected
Activity
“To prevail on an anti-SLAPP motion, the movant
must first make ‘a threshold showing the challenged cause of action’ arises
from an act in furtherance of the right of petition or free speech in
connection with a public issue.” (Varian Medical Systems, Inc. v. Delfino (2005) 35 Cal.4th 180,
192.)  “[T]he focus is on determining
what ‘the defendant’s activity [is] that gives rise to his or her asserted
liability—and whether that activity constitutes protected speech or petitioning.’
[Citation.]”  (Park v. Board of
Trustees of California State University
(2017) 2
Cal.5th 1057, 1063.)  “‘The only means
specified in section 425.16 by which a moving defendant can satisfy that
[‘arising from’] requirement is to demonstrate that the defendant’s conduct by
which plaintiff claims to have been injured falls within one of the four
categories described in subdivision (e) . . . .’ [Citation.]” (Ibid.)  
            Pursuant to
Baral v. Schnitt (2016)
1 Cal.5th 376, 396, “[a]t the first step, the moving defendant bears the burden
of identifying all allegations of protected activity, and the claims for relief
supported by them.”  (See Wilson v.
Cable News Network, Inc. (2019) 7 Cal.5th 871, 884 [“The defendant’s
first-step burden is to identify the activity each challenged claim rests on
and demonstrate that that activity is protected by the anti-SLAPP
statute.”].)  
Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16(e) protects “(1) any written or
oral statement or writing made before a … judicial proceeding, … [and] (2) any written
or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under
consideration or review by a … judicial body”. (CCP § 425.16(e)(1)-(2).)  Filing documents in a court proceeding is
unquestionably petitioning activity under these clauses.  (Ludwig v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 8, 19, [“The constitutional right to petition
... includes the basic act of filing litigation or otherwise seeking
administrative action.”].)  “[P]lainly
read, section 425.16 encompasses any cause of action against a person
arising from any statement or writing made in, or in connection with an issue
under consideration or review by, an official proceeding or body.”  (Briggs v. Eden Council for Hope & Opportunity (1999) 19 Cal.4th 1106, 1113.)  “[T]hese clauses safeguard free speech and
petition conduct aimed at advancing self government, as well as conduct aimed
at more mundane pursuits. Under the plain terms of the statute it is the
context or setting itself that makes the issue a public issue: all that matters
is that the First Amendment activity take place in an official proceeding or be
made in connection with an issue being reviewed by an official
proceeding.”  (Id. at p.1116.) 
Thus, protected conduct includes such actions as “the filing, funding,
and prosecution of a civil action.”  (Rusheen
v. Cohen (2006) 37 Cal.4th 1048, 1056.)  
Cross-Defendants argue that its actions
alleged in the Cross-Complaint are protected under the anti-SLAPP statute, and
that the litigation privilege extends to statements made in connection with
litigation pending or contemplated in good faith and serious consideration.  Cross-Defendants state this perspective
aligns with the idea that the litigation privilege covers conduct associated
with litigation, including settlement negotiations and mediation, which are
seen as exercises of the First Amendment right to petition.  (O&C Creditors Grp., LLC v. Stephens
and Stephens XII, LLC (2019) 42 Cal.App.5th 546; Navellier v. Sletten
(2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 85-86). 
Cross-Defendants state that settlement negotiations, regardless of when
they occur, are protected activities because they involve communications
pending before or under consideration by an official body.  (Navellier, supra, 29 Cal.4th at
90).  Cross-Defendants also rely on the mediation
privilege, which grants broad immunity and protection to mediations and
mediators, shielding them from damage claims related to their judicial process
duties.  (Howard v. Drapkin (1990)
222 CA3d 843, 855-860).  Cross-Defendants
state this confidentiality is deemed essential for effective mediation,
encouraging a candid and informal exchange among the parties.  (Rojas v. Sup.Ct. (Coffin) (2004) 33
C4th 407, 415; Simmons v. Ghaderi (2008) 44 C4th 570, 578.)  Cross-Defendants argue that the conduct being
complained of in the Cross-Complaint is protected under 425.16 and the
litigation, settlement negotiations, and mediation privileges, and any action
arising from the mediation is not actionable. 
In opposition, Cross-Complainants argue
that the “family meeting,” is not subject to the anti-SLAPP statute because
“prelitigation communication is privileged only when it relates to litigation
that is contemplated in good faith and under serious consideration.”.  (Action Apartment Assn., Inc. v. City of
Santa Monica (2007) 41 Cal.4th 1232, 1251; see also Nirschl v. Schiller
(2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 386, 401; Edwards v. Centex Real Estate Corp.
(1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 15, 39.) 
Cross-Complainants assert that the family meeting with the Rabbi does
not qualify as a proceeding protected by the anti-SLAPP statute because it was
an informal gathering not connected to or contemplating any judicial or
official proceeding.  (Century 21
Chamberlain & Assoc. v. Haberman (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 1, 5 [“The
anti-SLAPP statute does not protect the act of initiating private contractual
arbitration. The anti-SLAPP statute protects statements made in, or concerning
issues under review by, a ‘judicial proceeding, or any other official
proceeding authorized by law.’ Private contractual arbitration is neither. It
is a private alternative to a judicial proceeding. It is not an ‘official
proceeding’ because it is a nongovernmental activity not reviewable by
administrative mandate or required by statute.”].)  
As to the admissibility of written settlements,
Cross-Complainants state that under Evidence Code section 1123, written
settlements from mediation are not protected by mediation confidentiality if
certain criteria are met, such as whether the agreement is enforceable or
binding.  Here, Cross-Complainants state
that the Memorandum from the mediation qualifies as a binding and enforceable
agreement because it refers to itself as the “final agreement” and states that
there would be no other claims.  Also,
Cross-Complainants argue that the Memorandum is admissible to show fraud,
duress, or illegality related to the dispute, as alleged with the bribe paid to
Rabbi Noff by Cross-Defendants under Evidence Code section 1123(d).  Specifically, Cross-Complainants characterize
the bribe to Rabbi Noff as criminal in nature, which was intended to influence
the mediation and not protected by mediation confidentiality or the anti-SLAPP
statute, as it was not for the purpose of, during, or pursuant to the mediation.
 
            In reply, Cross-Defendants argue
that the conduct alleged in the Cross-Complaint consisting of settlement
negotiations and discussions preceding a lawsuit are privileged and protected,
including pre-litigation settlement negotiations.  Cross-Defendants emphasize the distinction
between their case and Century 21 Chamberlin & Assoc v. Haberman,
arguing that unlike private contractual arbitration, settlement discussions and
private mediations are privileged under specific sections of the Evidence Code.  They contend that the mediation occurred
because litigation was contemplated and under serious consideration,
positioning it as a protected activity within the scope of the anti-SLAPP
statute.  Cross-Defendant highlights that
mediation confidentiality is protected by California statutes, barring
disclosure of communications associated with mediation unless an express
statutory exception applies.  Cross-Defendants
conclude that since the Cross-Complaint is based on a pre-litigation mediation,
any action arising from this mediation is not actionable and therefore, the
motion must be granted.
            The Court finds that
Cross-Defendants have failed to satisfy their burden in showing that the
challenged cause of action arises from protected activity.  Here, Cross-Defendant’s activity consists of
actions during the parties’ mediation prior to filing any suit.  The Cross-Complaint alleges that
Cross-Defendants wrongfully bribed the mediator for the purposes of influencing
the mediation results.  Cross-Defendants
have not shown that the settlement negotiations and settlement agreement
reached in the mediation were made in connection with an issue under
consideration or review by the judicial body, specifically, it was not
court-ordered or sanctioned, and more akin to the private contractual
arbitration in Century 21.  Cross-Defendants
offer insufficient evidence to show that the mediation was conducted in
connection with any formal proceeding or litigation.  
            Cross-Complainants also show that
the Memorandum at issue is not inadmissible from disclosure because it is being
used to show Cross-Defendants’ alleged fraud, duress, or illegality.  Additionally, the Court finds that
communications and activities arising outside mediation, such as Rabbi Noff’s
confession that he was paid a bribe to influence the result of the mediation, are
not subject to the mediation privilege because they occurred outside the scope
of mediation. Without question, Rabbi Noff’s acceptance of a bribe cannot be
seen as part of a mediation.
            For the reasons stated, the Court denies
the Special Motion to Strike as Cross-Defendants have not met their burden.
 
Second Prong: Cross-Complainants’ Showing of Reasonable
Probability of Success 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Court will also
discuss the second prong. 
For the second prong of the anti-SLAPP analysis, Cross-Complainants
bear the burden of establishing a probability of succeeding on the merits.  (See
Kyle v. Carmon (1999) 71 Cal.App.4th
901, 907.)  However, Cross-Complainants
are “not required ‘to prove the specified claim to the trial court’; rather, so
as to not deprive the plaintiff of a jury trial, the appropriate inquiry is
whether the plaintiff has stated and substantiated a legally sufficient
claim.”  (Whitehall v. County of San Bernardino (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 352,
364.)
At the second stage “‘[t]he court does not
weigh evidence or resolve conflicting factual claims. Its inquiry is
limited to whether the plaintiff has stated a legally sufficient claim and made
a prima facie factual showing sufficient to sustain a favorable judgment. It
accepts the plaintiff's evidence as true, and evaluates the defendant's
showing only to determine if it defeats the plaintiff's claim as a matter of
law.’ [Citation.]”  (Wilson v.
Cable News Network, Inc. (2019) 7 Cal.5th 871, 891, [italics added].)
The litigation privilege is “relevant to the second
step in the anti-SLAPP analysis in that it may present a substantive defense a
plaintiff must overcome to demonstrate a probability of prevailing.” (Flatley
v. Mauro (2006) 39 Cal.4th 299, 323.) 

“‘The usual
formulation is that the [litigation] privilege applies to any communication (1)
made in judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings; (2) by litigants or other
participants authorized by law; (3) to achieve the objects of the litigation;
and (4) that [has] some connection or logical relation to the
action.’ [Citation.]  The privilege
“is not limited to statements made during a trial or other proceedings, but may
extend to steps taken prior thereto, or afterwards.’ [Citation.]”  (Action Apartment Assn., Inc. v. City of Santa Monica (2007) 41 Cal.4th
1232, 1241.)  “[T]he litigation privilege
was founded on defamation actions, and has been applied primarily to provide
absolute immunity from tort liability for communications with ‘some relation’
to judicial proceedings.”  (Feldman v. 1100
Park Lane Associates (2008) 160
Cal.App.4th 1467, 1494.)  
The Supreme
Court has noted that it has previously “directed that section 47(b) be
applied broadly to bar tort actions based on privileged communications,
excepting only the tort of malicious prosecution.” (Hagberg v. California
Fed. Bank (2004) 32 Cal. 4th 350, 358.) “The privilege
applies to communications relative to the defense of an action as well as those
relative to its filing and prosecution.” 
(Cabral v. Martins (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 471, 485.) 
“The privilege is ‘absolute in nature, applying “to all publications,
irrespective of their maliciousness.” ’ [Citation.]”  (Optional Capital, Inc. v. Akin Gump Strauss, Hauer
& Feld LLP (2017) 18
Cal.App.5th 95, 116.)  “ ‘The principal
purpose of [the litigation privilege] is to afford litigants and witnesses
[citation] the utmost freedom of access to the courts without fear of being
harassed subsequently by derivative tort actions.’ ” (Action
Apartment, supra, 41 Cal.4th at p.1241, [italics added].)  
Cross-Defendants
argue that the litigation privilege and mediation privilege apply here which
precludes Cross-Defendants’ liability on the cross-claims.  Cross-Defendants assert that
Cross-Complainants cannot overcome the application of the complete bar under
the litigation privilege, because they cannot amend their pleading in
opposition to this motion.  However, for
the reasons discussed above, the Court finds that the litigation privilege does
not apply because the mediation was not a judicial or quasi-judicial
proceeding, and that the mediation privilege does not apply because the
communications and activity in the Cross-Complaint consist of activity outside
the mediation.  Thus, there is a
reasonable probability of success on the merits since the claimed privileges
likely would not apply. 
 
Conclusion and ORDER
Based on the foregoing, Cross-Defendants’
Special Motion to Strike is DENIED. 
Cross-Defendants are not entitled to recover attorney’s fees and costs
incurred in bringing this motion.
Moving
Parties are to give notice and filed proof of service of such.
 
DATED:  April 10, 2024                                            ___________________________
Yolanda Orozco
                                                                                                Judge of t