 Case Number:  23SMCV02329    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205  KEVIN MCGINN,     Plaintiff, v.  PETER B. MENDELSOHN, M.D., et al.,    Defendants.    Case No.:  23SMCV02329     Hearing Date:  April 17, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:   DEFENDANT SPECIALTY SURGICAL    CENTER, LLC’S DEMURRER TO    SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT     BACKGROUND This is a medical malpractice case.  Defendants David Kamen, Peter Mendelsohn and Specialty Surgical Center performed cataract surgery on Plaintiff Kevin McGinn’s right eye.  Plaintiff alleges Defendants performed the cataract surgery “knowing that insufficient sedation and anesthesia was provided”.  (Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) ¶23.)  Plaintiff claims that during the procedure, he indicated to both individual Defendants that he was awake and had not been properly anesthetized and sedated and was aware of the surgery and could feel the incisions made.  (Id. ¶11.)   Despite this, Plaintiff claims Defendants proceeded with the surgery, knowing he was insufficiently sedated.  (Id.) The operative complaint alleges four claims for (1) medical negligence, (2) corporate negligence, (3) assault and battery and (4) intentional infliction of emotional distress.   This hearing is on Defendant Specialty Surgical Center, LLC’s (“Moving Defendant’s”) demurrer and motion to strike the SAC.  Moving Defendant argues that (1) Plaintiff’s first cause of action for medical negligence fails because Plaintiff has not alleged causation on the part of Moving Defendant, (2) Plaintiff’s second cause of action for corporate negligence fails to plead the essential elements of breach and causation and is also duplicative of Plaintiff’s medical negligence claim, and (3) Plaintiff’s third cause of action for assault and battery fails because Plaintiff has not alleged what touching or contact was performed by Moving Defendant that would give rise to a claim for medical battery and the Complaint does not plead the elements of a claim for assault.  Moving Defendant also argues that all four claims are fatally uncertain as the Complaint fails to specify what acts or omissions on the part of Moving Defendant give rise to each claim.    REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE Moving Defendant requests judicial notice of (1) Plaintiff’s first amended complaint (“FAC”), (2) the notice of ruling on Moving Defendant’s demurrer to the FAC, (3) Plaintiff’s second amended complaint, (4) the fact that Moving Defendant is a certified ambulatory surgery center under Health & Safety Code §1248.1 et seq. and within the statutory definition of “health care provider” as defined under Code Civ. Proc. §425.13, and (5) the fact that the Medical Board of California fully restored the medical license of Peter Mendelsohn, M.C. to renewed/current status and free of probation requirements effective March 30, 2015.  There is no opposition to the request for judicial notice.  The Court grants the request pursuant to Cal. Evid. Code §§ 452(d), 452(h) and 453. LEGAL STANDARD A demurrer to a complaint may be general or special.¿ A general demurrer challenges the legal sufficiency of the complaint on the ground it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10, subd. (e).)¿ A general demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 (in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents).)  For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)   A special demurrer challenges other defects in the complaint, including whether a pleading is uncertain. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10, subd. (f).)¿ The term uncertain means “ambiguous and unintelligible.”¿ (Id.)¿ A demurrer for uncertainty should be sustained if the complaint is drafted in such a manner that the defendant cannot reasonably respond, i.e., the defendant cannot determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts are directed against the defendant. (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)¿ Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 (court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”); Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 (“A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment.”).)  The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  MEET AND CONFER¿ Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41 and 435.5 requires that before the filing of a demurrer or motion to strike, the moving party “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone” with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer or motion to strike for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer or motion to strike.¿ (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41(a), 435.5(a).)¿ The parties are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41(a)(2), 435.5(a)(2).)¿ Thereafter, the moving party shall file and serve a declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41(a)(3), 435.5(a)(3).)¿ Moving Defendant submits the declaration of Bryan Malone who attests the parties met and conferred by telephone at least five days before the demurrer and motion to strike were filed, which satisfies the requirements of §§430.41 and 435.5.¿ DISCUSSION Medical Negligence Moving Defendant argues that Plaintiff fails to state a claim for medical negligence because Plaintiff has not alleged causation.  The Court disagrees.   To state a claim for medical negligence, a plaintiff must allege (1) a duty to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of the profession commonly possess and exercise, (2) a breach of the duty, (3) a proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the injury, and (4) resulting loss or damage.  (Lattimore v. Dickey (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 959, 968.) Here, Plaintiff alleges that Moving Defendant failed to screen the expertise of the individual defendants and to monitor the quality of care provided at their health care facilities.  (SAC ¶18.)  Plaintiff further alleges that had Moving Defendant properly screened Defendant Mendelsohn, it would not have allowed him to practice in its facility when he had been subject to prior discipline by the Medical Board.  (Id.)  Without access to Moving Defendant’s facility, Mendelsohn would not have been able to perform the procedure on Plaintiff.  At the pleading stage, these facts are sufficient to support a finding of causation.   Moving Defendant argues that there is no causal nexus because while Mendelsohn was placed on probation by the Medical Board of California earlier in his career, his license was fully restored to renewed/current status at the time of the procedure.  But regardless of whether Mendelsohn was on probation at the time of the surgery, his past discipline is relevant to a proper screening, and it is a question of fact for the jury as to whether given his past discipline, he should have been allowed to practice at Moving Defendant’s facility.    Moving Defendant also argues that Plaintiff’s claim for medical negligence is uncertain because it fails to specifically allege what Moving Defendant did or did not do with respect to Plaintiff’s care and treatment, and how, if at all, that caused or contributed to his alleged injury and his alleged damages.  The Court disagrees.   A¿demurrer for uncertainty is a¿special demurrer that is¿disfavored and strictly construed because “ambiguities can reasonably be clarified under modern rules of discovery.”  (Lickiss v. Fin. Indus. Regulatory Auth. (2012) 208 Cal. App. 4th 1125, 1135.) ¿Moreover, special demurrers will be overruled where “the facts alleged in the complaint are presumptively within the knowledge of the demurring party or ascertainable by invoking discovery procedures… .” (Khoury v. Maly's of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  Furthermore, to sustain a demurrer for uncertainty, the complaint must be so vague or ambiguous that the defendant cannot reasonably respond.  (Id. at 614.) Here, Plaintiff’s medical negligence claim is not so vague or ambiguous that Moving Defendant cannot reasonably respond.  Plaintiff has alleged what Moving Defendant did or failed to do – namely, that they failed to screen the expertise of the individual defendants and failed to monitor the quality of care provided in their facilities.  Plaintiff has also alleged how the alleged acts or omissions caused Plaintiff’s injury – namely, that had Moving Defendant properly screened Mendelsohn, he would not have been allowed to practice at Moving Defendant’s facility and operate on Plaintiff.  These facts are sufficient to support a claim for medical negligence at the pleading stage.     Accordingly, the Court overrules the demurrer to the first cause of action.   Corporate Negligence Moving Defendant argues that Plaintiff fails to state a claim for corporate negligence because Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged breach and causation and the claim for corporate negligence is duplicative of the medical negligence claim.  The Court agrees as to the second ground. A demurrer can be sustained based on the ground that a cause of action is duplicative.  (See¿Palm Springs Villas II Homeowners Assn., Inc. v. Parth (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 268, 290 (“Regardless, as Parth argues, the cause of action for breach of governing documents appears to be duplicative of the cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty.  This court has recognized this as a basis for sustaining a demurrer.”); see also¿Award Metals, Inc. v. Superior Court (1991) 228 Cal.App.3d 1128, 1135¿(“But stating them in two¿causes of action, as real party has done, is merely¿duplicative pleading which adds nothing to the complaint by way of fact or¿theory.  For that reason, the demurrer should have been sustained as to this cause of action . . . .”).) Here, Plaintiff’s claim for corporate negligence adds nothing to the complaint by way of fact or theory.  The facts pleaded for both claims are virtually identical.  And both claims are negligence-based.  Moreover, the Opposition fails to address Moving Defendant’s argument that the claims are duplicative.   Accordingly, the Court sustains the demurrer to the second cause of action for corporate negligence without leave to amend.     Assault and Battery Moving Defendant argues that Plaintiff has not stated a claim for assault but his allegations merely go to a claim for battery.  The Court disagrees.   The essential elements of a cause of action for assault are: (1) defendant acted with intent to cause harmful or offensive contact, or threatened to touch plaintiff in a harmful or offensive manner; (2) plaintiff reasonably believed she was about to be touched in a harmful or offensive manner or it reasonably appeared to plaintiff that defendant was about to carry out the threat; (3)¿ plaintiff did not consent to defendant’s conduct; (4) plaintiff was harmed; and (5) defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm. (CACI No. 1301;¿Plotnik v. Meihaus¿(2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1590, 1603–1604.) The essential elements of a cause of action for battery are: (1) defendant touched plaintiff, or caused plaintiff to be touched, with the intent to harm or offend plaintiff; (2) plaintiff did not consent to the touching; (3) plaintiff was harmed or offended by defendant’s conduct; and (4) a reasonable person in plaintiff’s position would have been offended by the touching.¿(CACI No. 1300; see¿Kaplan v. Mamelak¿(2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 637, 645.)   The¿differences between assault and battery are that assault may involve a threat to touch any part of plaintiff’s person and no actual contact is required, while battery requires actual contact.  Battery includes assault; in fact, battery is a consummated assault.  Accordingly, Defendant’s argument that Plaintiff has only alleged battery but not assault is not well-taken.  By alleging battery, Plaintiff necessarily alleges assault.     Moving Defendant next argues that Plaintiff cannot state a claim for battery because Plaintiff consented to the procedure performed and medical battery requires that a doctor perform a substantially different medical procedure than one to which the patient consented.  The Court agrees.   As a general rule, one who consents to a touching cannot recover in an action for battery.  (So v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652, 668-69.)  Thus, one who gives consent to a surgery cannot recover for assault and battery where the consented to surgery was actually performed.   However, it is well recognized a person may place conditions on the consent.  If the actor exceeds the terms or conditions of the consent, the consent does not protect the actor from liability for battery.  (Ashcraft v. King (1991) 228 Cal.App.3d 604, 610.) The rule of conditional consent has been applied in battery actions against physicians and surgeons in California.  (Ashcraft, 228 Cal.App.3d at 610 (consent to blood transfusion but only using blood from the patient’s family); Grieves¿v.¿Superior Court¿(1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 165¿(consent to tubal ligation only if baby born without deformities);¿Keister v.¿O'Neil (1943) 59 Cal.App.2d 428, 434-435¿(operation consented to but “absolutely did not want . . . a spinal anesthetic”).) However, breach of conditional consent has only been found in situations where the condition is specific and is not intangible.  For instance, it is found when a patient conditions her consent to surgery during the AIDS crisis on the use of “family blood” during operation.  (Ashcraft, 228 Cal.App.3d at 613.)  Also, the condition is specific when a patient conditions tubal ligation on the birth of a baby without deformities.  (Grieves, 157 Cal.App.3d at 165.)   On the contrary, in Conte v. Girard Orthopaedic Surgeons, Medical Group, Inc. (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 1260, a nonsuit case involving a battery claim, the plaintiff argued his consent to shoulder surgery was conditioned upon a repair of his shoulder fractures with internal fixation hardware.  When the surgeon did not repair the fractures, the plaintiff claimed his conditional consent had been violated.  The Conte surgeon began a surgical procedure arthroscopically and determined that further surgery to repair the shoulder fractures would cause disintegration of the bone, and thus, the surgeon did not repair the bone.  The Conte plaintiff wanted surgery with a repair but got surgery without a repair.  The Conte court declined to extend a battery cause of action, where treatment was within the bounds of consent, but less than plaintiff’s authorization.  (Conte, 107 Cal.App.4th at 1268.)  The Conte court found the alleged condition of a repair to be an “intangible condition,” unlike the “specific condition” found in Ashcraft.  (Id. at 1269.) In the present case, Plaintiff’s claim of battery rests on the theory that although the cataract surgery was consented to, the consent was subject to a condition: the surgery had to be performed with adequate anesthesia.  (Ashcraft, 228 Cal.App.3d at 610.)  Plaintiff, however, does not quantity what constitutes “adequate anesthesia.”  It is an intangible condition not based on any objectively verifiable fact, but on a physician’s subjective medical judgment which sounds purely in negligence.  “Adequate anesthesia” is not a “specific condition” as found in Ashcraft or Grieves.  Further, in cases of conditional consent, the defendant must have an “inten[t] to perform the procedure with knowledge that the condition had not occurred.”  (Dennis v. Southland (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 540, 544.)  The defendant must have knowledge of the condition to intentionally deviate from it.  (Piedra v. Dugan (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 1483, 1498.)   Thus, the court in Conte v. Girard Orthopaedic Surgeons Medical Group, Inc. (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 1260, noted that a battery claim based upon conditional consent would not lie where the plaintiff fails to explicitly state an express condition.  (Id. at 1269.)  Likewise, the Piedra court found that a claim of battery based upon conditional consent would not lie where the plaintiffs failed to communicate their condition to the defendant, and the defendant did not have knowledge of the condition.  (123 Cal.App.4th at 1498.) Here, there are no allegations establishing that Plaintiff expressly communicated the condition to his consent.  There are no allegations about the terms of Plaintiff’s condition (i.e., how much anesthesia he wanted to receive), to whom he communicated this condition and when the communication took place.  In short, the SAC is silent as to whether Plaintiff ever communicated his conditional consent to anyone prior to undergoing the surgery.  Instead, it merely alleges that Plaintiff consented to the procedure only if sufficient anesthesia was used.    (SAC ¶22.)  This allegation does not say Plaintiff communicated his condition to anyone.   Accordingly, the Court sustains the demurrer to Plaintiff’s third cause of action for assault and battery without leave to amend. Motion to Strike Moving Defendant moves to strike paragraph 18 of the SAC on the ground that it is purportedly false.  The Court disagrees. Paragraph 18 of the SAC states in relevant part: “Defendant Specialty Surgical Center was furthermore on notice of the fact that Defendant Mendelsohn had been subject to discipline by the State of Medical Board which had resulted in the revocation of his medical licenses which was stayed with a three year period of probation.  Said discipline related to the practice of medicine.  If Defendant Specialty Surgical Center had performed reasonable screening procedures, Defendant Mendelsohn would not have been allowed privileges to practice anesthesiology in Defendant’s surgical center.”   Moving Defendant argues that this paragraph is false because “the Medical Board of California fully restored Dr. Mendelsohn’s license to renewed/current status and free of probation requirements effective March 30, 2105, i.e., some seven years before Plaintiff’s procedure here.”  But nothing in Paragraph 18 states Mendelsohn’s license was suspended at the time of the procedure.  It merely notes that it was suspended at some point, and this prior discipline should have caused Moving Defendant to disallow Mendelsohn’s privileges to practice anesthesiology in Moving Defendant’s surgical center.  Accordingly, the allegations in paragraph 18 are not inconsistent with the fact that the Medical Board restored Dr. Mendelsohn’s license to practice medicine, and there is no reason to strike the allegations as false.  Accordingly, the Court denies the motion to strike.   CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS IN PART and OVERRULES IN PART Defendant Specialty Surgical Center, LLC’s demurrer and DENIES Defendant’s motion to strike.    IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED: April 17, 2024    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 

   Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205  KEVIN MCGINN,     Plaintiff, v.  PETER B. MENDELSOHN, M.D., et al.,    Defendants.    Case No.:  23SMCV02329     Hearing Date:  April 17, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:   DEFENDANT PETER MENDELSOHN’S    DEMURRER TO FIRST AMENDED   COMPLAINT     BACKGROUND This is a medical malpractice case.  Defendants David Kamen, Peter Mendelsohn and Specialty Surgical Center performed cataract surgery on Plaintiff Kevin McGinn’s right eye.  Plaintiff alleges Defendants performed the cataract surgery “knowing that insufficient sedation and anesthesia was provided”.  (Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) ¶23.)  Plaintiff claims that during the procedure, he indicated to both individual Defendants that he was awake and had not been properly anesthetized and sedated and was aware of the surgery and could feel the incisions made.  (Id. ¶11.)   Despite this, Plaintiff claims Defendants proceeded with the surgery, knowing he was insufficiently sedated.  (Id.) The operative complaint alleges four claims for (1) medical negligence, (2) corporate negligence, (3) assault and battery and (4) intentional infliction of emotional distress.   This hearing is on Defendant Peter Mendelsohn’s demurrer.  Mendelsohn argues that (1) Plaintiff’s third cause of action for assault and battery fails because there is no dispute Plaintiff consented to the surgery, and the alleged condition Plaintiff placed on his consent for “sufficient” anesthesia is too intangible to give rise to a claim for battery, and (2) Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress fails because Plaintiff fails to plead facts showing extreme and outrageous conduct or intent to cause or reckless disregard of the possibility of causing emotional distress.   LEGAL STANDARD “[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 (in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents).)  For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)   Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 (court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”); Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 (“A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment.”); Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768 (“When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to amend.”).)  The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) MEET AND CONFER Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41 requires that before the filing of a demurrer, the moving party “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone” with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a).)  The parties are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a)(2).)  Thereafter, the moving party shall file and serve a declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a)(3).)  Mendelsohn submits the Declaration of Young Choi, which fails to show counsel met and conferred by phone or in person.  The declaration merely states the parties met and conferred but fails to specify how.  Notwithstanding, the Court cannot sustain or overrule a demurrer based on an insufficient meet and confer.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a)(4).)  However, the Court cautions the parties to comply with their meet and confer obligations; otherwise, the Court will have to continue the hearing on their motion.   DISCUSSION Assault and Battery Mendelsohn argues that Plaintiff cannot state a claim for assault and battery because Plaintiff consented to the procedure performed and medical battery requires that a doctor perform a substantially different medical procedure than one to which the patient consented.  The Court agrees.   The essential elements of a cause of action for assault are: (1) defendant acted with intent to cause harmful or offensive contact, or threatened to touch plaintiff in a harmful or offensive manner; (2) plaintiff reasonably believed she was about to be touched in a harmful or offensive manner or it reasonably appeared to plaintiff that defendant was about to carry out the threat; (3)¿ plaintiff did not consent to defendant's conduct; (4) plaintiff was harmed; and (5) defendant's conduct was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff's harm. (CACI No. 1301;¿Plotnik v. Meihaus¿(2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1590, 1603–1604.) The essential elements of a cause of action for battery are: (1) defendant touched plaintiff, or caused plaintiff to be touched, with the intent to harm or offend plaintiff; (2) plaintiff did not consent to the touching; (3) plaintiff was harmed or offended by defendant’s conduct; and (4) a reasonable person in plaintiff’s position would have been offended by the touching.¿(CACI No. 1300; see¿Kaplan v. Mamelak¿(2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 637, 645.)   As a general rule, one who consents to a touching cannot recover in an action for battery or assault.  (So v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652, 668-69.)  Thus, one who gives consent to a surgery cannot recover for assault and battery where the consented to surgery was actually performed.  However, it is well recognized a person may place conditions on the consent.  If the actor exceeds the terms or conditions of the consent, the consent does not protect the actor from liability for battery.  (Ashcraft v. King (1991) 228 Cal.App.3d 604, 610.) The rule of conditional consent has been applied in California in battery actions against doctors.  (Ashcraft, 228 Cal.App.3d at 610 (consent to blood transfusion but only using blood from the patient’s family); Grieves¿v.¿Superior Court¿(1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 165¿(consent to tubal ligation only if baby born without deformities);¿Keister v.¿O'Neil (1943) 59 Cal.App.2d 428, 434-435¿(operation consented to but “absolutely did not want . . . a spinal anesthetic”).)   However, breach of conditional consent has only been found in situations where the condition is specific and is not intangible.  For instance, it is found when a patient conditions her consent to surgery during the AIDS crises on the use of “family blood” during operation.  (Ashcraft, 228 Cal.App.3d at 613.)  Also, the condition is specific when a patient conditions tubal ligation on the birth of a baby without deformities.  (Grieves, 157 Cal.App.3d at 165.)   On the contrary, in Conte v. Girard Orthopaedic Surgeons, Medical Group, Inc. (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 1260, a nonsuit case involving a battery claim, the plaintiff argued his consent to shoulder surgery was conditioned upon a repair of his shoulder fractures with internal fixation hardware.  When the surgeon did not repair the fractures, the plaintiff claimed his conditional consent had been violated.  The Conte surgeon began a surgical procedure arthroscopically and determined that further surgery to repair the shoulder fractures would cause disintegration of the bone, and thus, the surgeon did not repair the bone.  The Conte plaintiff wanted surgery with a repair but got surgery without a repair.  The Conte court declined to extend a battery cause of action, where treatment was within the bounds of consent, but less than plaintiff’s authorization.  (Conte, 107 Cal.App.4th at 1268.)  The Conte court found the alleged condition of a repair to be an “intangible condition,” unlike the “specific condition” set forth in Ashcraft.  (Id. at 1269.) In the present case, Plaintiff’s claim of battery rests on the theory that although the cataract surgery was consented to, the consent was subject to a condition: the surgery had to be performed with adequate anesthesia.  (Ashcraft, 228 Cal.App.3d at 610.)  Plaintiff, however, does not quantity what constitutes “adequate anesthesia.”  It is an intangible condition not based on any objectively verifiable fact, but on a physician’s subjective medical judgment which sounds purely in negligence.  “Adequate anesthesia” is not a “specific condition” as found in Ashcraft and Grieves.   Further, in cases of conditional consent, the defendant must have an “inten[t] to perform the procedure with knowledge that the condition had not occurred.”  (Dennis v. Southland (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 540, 544.)  The defendant must have knowledge of the condition to intentionally deviate from it.  (Piedra v. Dugan (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 1483, 1498.)   Thus, the court in Conte v. Girard Orthopaedic Surgeons Medical Group, Inc. (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 1260, noted that a battery claim based upon conditional consent would not lie where the plaintiff fails to explicitly state an express condition.  (Id. at 1269.)  Likewise, the Piedra court found that a claim of battery based upon conditional consent would not lie where the plaintiffs failed to communicate their condition to the defendant, and the defendant did not have knowledge of the condition.  (123 Cal.App.4th at 1498.) Here, there are no allegations establishing that Plaintiff expressly communicated the condition to his consent.  There are no allegations about the terms of Plaintiff’s condition (i.e., how much anesthesia he wanted to receive), to whom he communicated this condition and when the communication took place.  In short, the SAC is silent as to whether Plaintiff ever communicated his conditional consent to anyone prior to undergoing the surgery.  Instead, it merely alleges that Plaintiff consented to the procedure only if sufficient anesthesia was used.    (SAC ¶22.)  This allegation does not say Plaintiff communicated his condition to anyone.   Accordingly, the Court sustains the demurrer to Plaintiff’s third cause of action for assault and battery. Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress Mendelsohn argues that Plaintiff’s claim for intentional infliction of emotional distress fails as a matter of law because Plaintiff has not alleged extreme and outrageous conduct or that Mendelsohn intended to cause or acted in reckless disregard of the probability of causing emotional distress.  The Court disagrees. The elements of a claim for intentional infliction of emotional distress are: “(1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress, (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress, and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct.”  (Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009.)  To be outrageous, conduct must be “so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.”  (Id.)  The defendant must have engaged in conduct “intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the realization that injury will result.  It is not enough that the conduct be intentional and outrageous.  It must be conduct directed at the plaintiff, or occur in the presence of a plaintiff of whom the defendant is aware.”  (Christenson v. Superior Court (1991) 54 Cal.3d 868, 903.)   To avoid a demurrer, the plaintiff must allege with “great specificity the acts which he or she believes are so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized society.”  (Vasquez v. Franklin Management Real Estate Fund, Inc. (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 819, 832.)  “Whether behavior is extreme or outrageous is a legal determination to be made by the court, in the first instance.”  (Faunce v. Cate (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 166, 172; Fowler v. Varian Associates, Inc. (1987) 196 Cal.App.3d 34, 44.)  Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged facts that would demonstrate extreme and outrageous conduct beyond what is expected in a civilized society.  Plaintiff claims that during the procedure, he indicated to Defendants that he was awake and had not been properly anesthetized and sedated and was aware of the surgery and could feel the incisions made.  (Id. ¶11.)   Despite this, Plaintiff claims Defendants proceeded with the surgery, knowing he was insufficiently sedated.  (Id.)  These facts are sufficient to support a finding that Defendants’ conduct was extreme and outrageous and that they engaged in such conduct with the intent to inflict injury or with the realization that injury will result.  Mendelsohn’s citation to Davidson v. City of Westminster (1982) 32 Cal.3d 197, is unavailing.  There, a woman who was stabbed in a public laundromat that was under police surveillance, brought an action for negligence and intentional infliction of emotional distress against the two police officers conducting the surveillance.  (Id. at 201.)  The trial court found that the officers’ conduct did not rise to the level of outrageous conduct so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized society.  The Supreme Court affirmed.  (Id. at 258-259.) Unlike in Davidson, where the two police officers were bystanders, here, the alleged misconduct was directly undertaken by Mendelsohn.  That Mendelsohn’s conduct was extreme and outrageous and that he acted for the purpose of causing harm to Plaintiff can be inferred from the fact that Plaintiff brought to his attention that he was insufficiently sedated during the surgery but Mendelsohn proceeded with the surgery anyway.   Mendelsohn argues there can be no extreme or outrageous conduct where Plaintiff has not alleged he communicated the condition of sufficient anesthesia to Mendelsohn and Mendelsohn did not deliberately deviate from the consent.  While Mendelsohn may raise these arguments at trial, they are not a basis to conclude a lack of extreme and outrageous conduct as a matter of law.  Regardless of whether Plaintiff communicated the condition to his consent, Plaintiff allegedly communicated he was insufficiently sedated during the surgery, and Mendelsohn purportedly proceeded with the surgery with knowledge that Plaintiff was insufficiently sedated.       Accordingly, the Court overrules the demurrer to Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress.     CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS IN PART AND OVERRULES IN PART Defendant Peter Mendelsohn’s demurrer to the second amended complaint.  The Court sustains the demurrer to the third cause of action, without leave to amend.    IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED: April 17, 2024    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 
