  Case Number:  23SMCV01693    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Webb v. Pepperdine
University 
CASE NO.:                23SMCV01693
MOTION:                  Motion
to Quash Subpoena 
HEARING DATE:   1/15/2025

 
Legal
Standard
 
All unprivileged information that
is relevant to the subject matter of the action is discoverable if it would
itself be admissible evidence at trial or if it appears reasonably calculated
to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. (CCP § 2017.010; Schnabel
v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 704, 711.) Information is
relevant if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case,
preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement. (Gonzalez v. Superior Court
(1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.)
 
Code of Civil Procedure (CCP)
section 1987.1 states that “[i]f a subpoena requires the attendance of a
witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders.” (CCP § 1987.1(a).) “In addition, the court may make any
other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or
oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy
of the person.”  (Id.)  
   
Subpoenas which seek consumer
records, including personal financial information, must adhere to additional
procedural requirements laid out in CCP § 1985.3.  The subpoena must first
be served on the consumer at least five days before it is served on the
nonparty from whom records are sought (with a five-day extension if served by
mail, pursuant to CCP § 1013). (CCP, § 1985.3(b)(3).) A subpoena must
be served on the custodian of records at least fifteen days before the date
upon which records are to be produced, plus any statutory extensions. (Id.,
§§ 1985.3(d), 2020.410(c).)  CCP section¿2025.410(c)
requires that a motion to quash a deposition notice must be accompanied by a
meet and confer declaration.  
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
Defendant’s request for judicial
notice is GRANTED. (Evid. Code § 452(d).)
 
ANALYSIS
 
Plaintiff Breanna Webb moves to
quash a subpoena decus tecum served by Defendant Pepperdine University on third
party deponent California Lutheran University on August 16, 2024. 
 
Defendant raises procedural issues
with Plaintiff’s notice of motion. Plaintiff filed two substantively identical motions
to quash, apparently targeting the same two subpoenas. Confusingly, Plaintiff’s
notices of motion and memoranda fail to identify which motion applies to which subpoena.
That said, Plaintiff identifies Exhibit F to her declaration as the relevant
subpoena, which comprises both subpoenas. Further, Defendant also supplies
copies of the subject subpoenas, and discusses the merits of the subpoenas. Thus,
there is no confusion or prejudice caused by the duplicative motions and/or
vague notices. The Court will therefore exercise its discretion to consider the
merits of the motion.
 
Further, given the procedural overlap
between the motions to quash, the Court will advance tomorrow’s hearing and
consider the two motions together.
 
Email-Transfer Subpoena 
 
The first subpoena sought the
production of “[a]ll documents that were transferred to Breanna C. Webb’s
California Lutheran University (CLU) email address on or about February 22,
2024 from Pepperdine University’s server, including, but not limited to
documents related to Pepperdine University’s administration, third-party
resumes, applications, letters of recommendation, organization charts,
responses to the Coronavirus pandemic, and threat assessment cases.”  Plaintiff argues that the emails and or files
contained within her CLU email are not relevant to any claim or defense in this
lawsuit. Plaintiff contends that Defendant has not provided any justification
for access to her emails and Google Drive storage. 
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s
claims are subject to an affirmative defense of after-acquired evidence. (See Salas
v. Sierra Chem. Co. (2014) 59 Cal. 4th 407, 428 [“The doctrine of
after-acquired evidence refers to an employer’s discovery, after an allegedly
wrongful termination of employment or refusal to hire, of information that
would have justified a lawful termination or refusal to hire.”].) Defendant
asserts that Plaintiff engaged in unlawful self-help discovery by accessing,
downloading, changing permissions to, and sharing approximately 3,000 files
from Defendant’s Google Drive to her CLU email account on February 22, 2024,
after her employment was terminated by Defendant. 
 
Even if the Court accepts that
Plaintiff violated her agreement with Defendant, and that Plaintiff misappropriated
and transferred documents from Pepperdine’s Google Drive to her email address,
the SDT is not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence in this action. The Court has already explained that such evidence is
not germane to an after-acquired evidence defense. Evidence of Plaintiff’s
misappropriation could not support any after-acquired evidence defense since
Plaintiff allegedly misappropriated the documents during the course of this
lawsuit after being fired.
Plaintiff’s post-firing conduct could not logically be used as a justification
for her prior termination. Otherwise, this evidence does not affect Plaintiff’s
claims or Defendant’s affirmative defenses. Thus, the sought-after
“misappropriated” documents would have no tendency to affect any issue pled in
this action. 
 
Defendant claims that the Court has
the authority to order return of misappropriated documents, citing Pillsbury,
Madison & Sutro v. Schectman, (1997) 55 Cal. App. 4th 1279. Schectman
involved an action by a plaintiff-employer against an attorney and law firm
representing current and former employees in a separate employment law action, to
recover documents removed from plaintiff's office without its consent. This
caselaw is consistent with the Court’s prior rulings: Defendant must bring an affirmative
claim for an order to return of any documents or otherwise recover against
Plaintiff.
 
Accordingly, the motion to quash is
GRANTED as to the email-transfer subpoena.
 
Academic Records Subpoena
 
The second subpoena sought the
production of “[a]ll student records, including but not limited to,
transcripts, application for admission, course schedules, disciplinary records,
grading record, degree(s) obtained and/or sought, honors obtained and/or sought
and any correspondence and notes concerning” Plaintiff. The relevancy of Plaintiff’s
academic history is not immediately apparent. Defendant claims that Plaintiff’s
academic records from CLU will reveal whether Plaintiff was “truthful” when she
completed her employment application with Defendant, indicating that she
obtained an academic degree from CLU. Essentially, Defendant wants to find out
whether Plaintiff, in fact, graduated from CLU. If Plaintiff did not graduate
from CLU, then Plaintiff lied on her application, and Defendant would have
after-acquired evidence which would have justified her termination. 
 
Plaintiff objects on the basis of
privacy. The party asserting a privacy right must establish a legally protected
privacy interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given
circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious. (Hill v. National
Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 35-37.) The party
seeking information may raise, in response, whatever legitimate and important
countervailing interest disclosure serves, while the party seeking protection
may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or protective
measures that would diminish the loss of privacy. (Id. at
37–40.) If there is a serious invasion of a constitutional right to
privacy, the party seeking the evidence must establish that the information
sought is not only essential and directly relevant, but also that this
information could not be discovered through less intrusive means. (Williams
v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552.) In considering a privacy
objection, trial courts must carefully balance a right of privacy against the
interest in having just litigation. (Pioneer Electronics (USA), Inc. v.
Superior Court (2007) 40 Cal.4th 360, 371.); Allen v. Superior Court
(1984) 151 Cal.App.3d 447, 449; see, e.g., Valley Bank of Nevada v. Superior
Court (1975) 15 Cal.3d 652, 658 [“. . . the purpose of the
information sought, the effect that disclosure will have on the parties and on
the trial, the nature of the objections urged by the party resisting
disclosure, and ability of the court to make an alternative order which may
grant partial disclosure, disclosure in another form, or disclosure only in the
event that the party seeking the information undertakes certain specified
burdens which appear just under the circumstances.”].) The burden is on the
party seeking the constitutionally protected information to establish direct
relevance.  (Harris v. Superior Court (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th 661,
665.)  
 
Plaintiff identifies an important
privacy right – the privacy of her student education records. Indeed, Plaintiff
has a legally protected privacy interest her student records. (Porten v.
University of San Francisco (1976) 64 Cal. App. 3d 825, 832.) Plaintiff
notes that this information is a federally protected under Family Educational
Rights and Privacy Act (20 U.S.C. § 1232g; 34 CFR Part 99). Defendant has the
burden to show that the academic records sought are essential, directly
relevant, and that no less intrusive means exist to obtain this evidence. As
discussed above, Defendant correctly observes that Plaintiff’s academic records
would reveal whether she truly obtained a degree from CLU. Of course, less
intrusive means exist to obtain such information. Defendant could have
requested evidence from Plaintiff substantiating her degree. Further, Defendant
could have issued a more-limited subpoena. The need to confirm Plaintiff’s
degree would not explain the scope of the subpoena, including transcripts,
application for admission, course schedules, disciplinary records, grading
record, degree(s) sought, honors obtained and/or sought and any correspondence
and notes concerning Plaintiff. Such records would go far beyond merely
confirming that she has a degree from CLU. Defendant does not explain how this other
information might factor into its after-acquired evidence defense or otherwise
relate to the issues in the case. As such, Defendant fails to meet both direct
relevance and no less-intrusive means elements.
 
With that said, the records might
be relevant to other issues, such as Plaintiff’s damages. Plaintiff claims
damage to her future earning capacity. Her school records would impact her
future earning capacity. Further, there is no less-intrusive means of obtaining
her academic history. Thus, the court would limit the subpoena to only academic
related disciplinary records (i.e., no inter-personal disputes), and delete the
“any correspondence and notes” category. 
 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED
in part and DENIED in part, as set forth herein..