  Case Number:  22STCV20465    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78  ROSA STEPHENSON,Plaintiffs;  vs. POMONA HEALTHCARE & WELLNESS CENER, LLC, et al., Defendants.  Case No.:  22STCV20465 Hearing Date:  June 27, 2024    [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:  PLAINITFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION FROM DEFENDANT POMONA HEALTHCARE AND WELLNESSPlaintiff’s Motion to Compel Defendant Pomona Healthcare’s further responses to Requests for Production, Set Two is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part as outlined below.Defendant must provide further verified responses as outlined below within 20 days after the date of this order. All responsive documents must be produced within 20 days after the date of this order.Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is GRANTED. Sanctions in the amount of $2,840  are imposed jointly and severally against Defendant Pomona Healthcare and Wellness and Defendant’s Counsel of Record. Sanctions are payable within 20 days after the date of this order.Moving party to give notice.DISCUSSION I. Legal StandardCompelling Further Responses to Requests for ProductionUnder Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, the Court may order a responding party to serve a further response to a request for production when the Court finds that any of the following apply: 1. A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete; 2. A representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive; or3. An objection in the response is without merit or too general. To prevail, the party moving for the order must first offer specific facts demonstrating “good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).) This burden “is met simply by a fact-specific showing of relevance.” (TBG Ins. Servs. Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 443, 448.) If “good cause” is shown by the moving party, the burden shifts to the responding party to justify any objections made to document disclosure. (Kirkland v. Superior Court (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 92, 98.) VerificationUnverified discovery responses are tantamount to no response at all and are subject to a motion to compel responses. (Appleton v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal. App. 3d 632, 635-36.) However, objections to interrogatories and demands for production are not required to be verified because “objections are legal conclusions interposed by counsel, not factual assertions by a party.” (Blue Ridge Insurance Co. v. Superior Court (1988) 202 Cal.App.3d 339, 345.)SanctionsSanctions are mandatory against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., section 2031.310(h).) Sanctions may be imposed for misuse of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., section 2023.030, subd. (a).) Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery constitutes a misuse of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., section 2023.010, subd. (d).) Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348 provides that a court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery even if no opposition was filed. II. DiscussionPlaintiff moves to compel Pomona Healthcare’s further responses to Requests for Production, Set Two, nos. 51, 52, 57, 59, 61-64, 90, 93, 94, 101-103, 106, 107, 111, 113, 117, 153, 155, 158, 159, 165, 167, 168, and 170-184.Plaintiff originally propounded RPDs, Set Two, on Pomona Healthcare on August 8, 2023. (Motion, Exh. A.) Pomona Healthcare served responses on September 18, 2023. (Motion, Exh. B.) After both sides participated in IDCs, the parties stipulated that Plaintiff would have until March 15, 2024 to file a motion to compel further responses. (See Minute Order dated February 22, 2024.) On March 27, 2024, the parties further agreed that Plaintiff shall have until April 2, 2024 to file a motion to compel further responses. (Motion, Exhs. G-H.)Plaintiff seeks further responses to the following:No. Request Response51 Please produce the lease agreements pertaining to the premises occupied by FACILITY which were in force and effect during PLAINTIFF’s residency at the FACILITY. Objections: Seeks documents that are not relevant to the issues framed in the Complaint and is not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.52 Please produce all incident reports, accident reports, and unusual occurrence reports for residents at FACILITY who suffered from pressure sores between January 1, 2020 to March 4, 2022. (The names of any and all residents, other than PLAINTIFF, should be redacted.) Objections: Violates third parties’ rights to privacy.57 Any and all preventative maintenance logs for the FACILITY during PLAINTIFF’s residency at the FACILITY. Objections: Seeks documents that are not relevant to the issues framed in the Complaint and is not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Overbroad in scope. Burdensome, harassing, and oppressive.59 Please produce all DOCUMENTS, including but not limited to e-mail, which were authored or received by agents or employees of the FACILITY during the time period of January 1, 2020 to March 4, 2022 which discuss pressure sores developed by residents at the FACILITY. (The names of any and all residents, other than PLAINTIFF, should be redacted.) Objections: Overbroad in scope. Seeks documents that are not relevant to the issues framed in the Complaint and is not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Violates third parties’ rights to privacy.61 Please produce the Controlled Drug Record in place at FACILITY during the time period of PLAINTIFF’s residency at the FACILITY. Objections: Overbroad as to time. Overbroad in scope. Seeks documents that are not relevant to the issues framed in the Complaint and is not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.62 Please produce the Drug Reconciliation Record in place at FACILITY during the time period of PLAINTIFF’s residency at the FACILITY. Objections: Overbroad as to time. Overbroad in scope. Seeks documents that are not relevant to the issues framed in the Complaint and is not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.63 Please produce the MDS Records/Reports for all residents of FACILITY, including PLAINTIFF, during the time period of PLAINTIFF’s residency at the FACILITY. Objections: Violates third parties’ rights to privacy. Overbroad as to time. Overbroad in scope. Seeks documents that are not relevant to the issues framed in the Complaint and is not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Burdensome, harassing, and oppressive.64 Please produce Section Z of each MDS Report for all residents of FACILITY, including PLAINTIFF, during the time period of PLAINTIFF’s residency at the FACILITY. Objections: Violates third parties’ rights to privacy. Overbroad as to time. Overbroad in scope. Seeks documents that are not relevant to the issues framed in the Complaint and is not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Burdensome, harassing, and oppressive.93 Please produce the e-mail sent by or received by any agent or employee of the FACILITY, or sent by or received by any agent or employee of Defendants BRIUS MANAGEMENT CO., ROCKPORT ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES, LLC, or SHLOMO RECHNITZ, which reference or relate to the need to control, monitor or reduce labor hours of nursing staff and/or labor costs of the FACILITY at any time during PLAINTIFF’s residency at the FACILITY. Objections: Vague and ambiguous. Not reasonably particularized.94 Please produce the e-mail sent by or received by any agent or employee of the FACILITY, or sent by or received by any agent or employee of Defendants BRIUS MANAGEMENT CO., ROCKPORT ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES, LLC, or SHLOMO RECHNITZ, which reference or relate to controlling, monitoring, consulting or reducing overtime hours, variances, census, and/or labor budget of the FACILITY at any time during PLAINTIFF’s residency at the FACILITY. Objections: Vague and ambiguous. Not reasonably particularized.97 Please produce all WRITINGS evidencing the approved TIME ADJUSTMENT REQUESTS for staff of the FACILITY whose hours were calculated and/or included in the FACILITY’S total nursing hours per patient day for each date of PLAINTIFF’s residency at the FACILITY. Responding party is still in the process of conducting a reasonable search and diligent inquiry regarding the responsive information and documents. Discovery and investigation are continuing, and responding defendant reserves its right to amend this response or provide a further response at a later date.111 Please produce a copy of the CMS 672 Forms for the FACILITY which pertain to the time period of five years preceding PLAINTIFF’s residency at the FACILITY. Objections: Overbroad as to time. Seeks documents that are not relevant to the issues framed in the Complaint and is not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.113 Please produce the complete, unredacted, raw data the FACILITY submitted to CMS' Payroll Based Journal system for the time period of PLAINTIFF’s residency at the FACILITY. Objections: To the extent this request seeks electronically stored information, the source of the information is not reasonably accessible because of undue burden and expense, and responding party will not search the source of the information in the absence of an agreement with the demanding party or court order. The types or categories of sources of electronically stored information that are not reasonably accessible include but are not limited to: payroll based journal data.117 Please produce the DOCUMENTS which constitute or evidence PUNCH DETAIL NOTIFICATION DOCUMENTS for the time period of PLAINTIFF’s residency at the FACILITY. (As used herein, the term “PUNCH DETAIL NOTIFICATION DOCUMENTS” shall mean a method of communication of errors, overage, underage, missed punches, duplicate punches, or any other event or irregularity which was systematically reported to responsible persons at the FACILITY arising from punches and/or clock-in/out activities of employees/agents of the FACILITY.) Objections: Overbroad in scope. Vague and ambiguous. Not reasonably particularized. Seeks documents that are not relevant to the issues framed in the Complaint and is not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. To the extent this request seeks electronically stored information, the source of the information is not reasonably accessible because of undue burden and expense, and responding party will not search the source of the information in the absence of an agreement with the demanding party or court order. The types or categories of sources of electronically stored information that are not reasonably accessible include but are not limited to time clock system and its electronic notifications.153 Please produce any and all signed agreements to waive meal breaks for all employees of the FACILITY who worked over 10 hours a day at any time during the time period of PLAINTIFF’s residency at the FACILITY. Objections: Overbroad in scope. Seeks documents that are not relevant to the issues framed in the Complaint and is not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.158 A copy of all DOCUMENTS which constitute contracts or agreements regarding and/or relating to revolving credit agreement and guarantees for the FACILITY which were in force and effect during the time period of PLAINTIFF’s residency at the FACILITY. Objections: Seeks financial information protected from disclosure by section 3295 of the Civil Code. Seeks documents that are not relevant to the issues framed in the Complaint and is not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.159 A copy of all DOCUMENTS which constitute contracts or agreements regarding and/or relating to bank agreement(s) and guarantees for the FACILITY which were in force and effect during the time period of PLAINTIFF’s residency at the FACILITY. Objections: Seeks financial information protected from disclosure by section 3295 of the Civil Code. Seeks documents that are not relevant to the issues framed in the Complaint and is not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.168 Please produce any and all CASPER reports entitled “Resident Level Quality Measure Reports” during the time period of PLAINTIFF’s residency at FACILITY. Objections: Seeks quality assurance documents that are protected from disclosure by California Evidence Code section 1157 and 42 U.S.C. section 1395i-3(b)(1)(B).170 Please produce any and all CASPER reports entitled “Facility Characteristics Reports” during the time period of PLAINTIFF’s residency at FACILITY. Objections: Seeks quality assurance documents that are protected from disclosure by California Evidence Code section 1157 and 42 U.S.C. section 1395i-3(b)(1)(B).171 Please produce any and all CASPER reports entitled “QRP Facility Level Quality Measure Reports” during the time period of PLAINTIFF’s residency at FACILITY. Objections: Seeks quality assurance documents that are protected from disclosure by California Evidence Code section 1157 and 42 U.S.C. section 1395i-3(b)(1)(B).172 Please produce any and all CASPER reports entitled “Skilled Nursing Facility QRP Resident Level Quality Measure Reports” during the time period of PLAINTIFF’s residency at FACILITY. Objections: Seeks quality assurance documents that are protected from disclosure by California Evidence Code section 1157 and 42 U.S.C. section 1395i-3(b)(1)(B).173 Please produce any and all CASPER reports entitled “Skilled Nursing Facility Review and Correct Reports” during the time period of PLAINTIFF’s residency at FACILITY. Objections: Seeks quality assurance documents that are protected from disclosure by California Evidence Code section 1157 and 42 U.S.C. section 1395i-3(b)(1)(B).174 Please produce any and all CASPER reports entitled “Individual Daily Staffing Reports” during the time period of PLAINTIFF’s residency at FACILITY. Objections: Seeks quality assurance documents that are protected from disclosure by California Evidence Code section 1157 and 42 U.S.C. section 1395i-3(b)(1)(B).175 Please produce any and all CASPER reports entitled “Daily MDS Census Detail Reports” during the time period of PLAINTIFF’s residency at FACILITY. Objections: Seeks quality assurance documents that are protected from disclosure by California Evidence Code section 1157 and 42 U.S.C. section 1395i-3(b)(1)(B).176 Please produce any and all CASPER reports entitled “Payroll Based Journal on Demand Final File Validation Reports” during the time period of PLAINTIFF’s residency at FACILITY. Objections: Seeks quality assurance documents that are protected from disclosure by California Evidence Code section 1157 and 42 U.S.C. section 1395i-3(b)(1)(B).177 Please produce any and all CASPER reports entitled “Payroll Based Journal Submitter Final File Validation Reports” during the time period of PLAINTIFF’s residency at FACILITY. Objections: Seeks quality assurance documents that are protected from disclosure by California Evidence Code section 1157 and 42 U.S.C. section 1395i-3(b)(1)(B).178 Please produce any and all CASPER reports entitled “Staffing Summary Reports” for each day of PLAINTIFF’s residency at FACILITY. Objections: Seeks quality assurance documents that are protected from disclosure by California Evidence Code section 1157 and 42 U.S.C. section 1395i-3(b)(1)(B).179 Please produce any and all CASPER reports entitled “Changes in Skin Integrity Post-Acute Care: Pressure Ulcer/Injury Reports” during the time period of PLAINTIFF’s residency at FACILITY. Objections: Seeks quality assurance documents that are protected from disclosure by California Evidence Code section 1157 and 42 U.S.C. section 1395i-3(b)(1)(B).180 Please produce any and all Job Title Reports, available as a CASPER report, for each and every job title for positions used at FACILITY during the time period of PLAINTIFF’s residency at FACILITY. Objections: Seeks quality assurance documents that are protected from disclosure by California Evidence Code section 1157 and 42 U.S.C. section 1395i-3(b)(1)(B).181 Please produce any and all CASPER reports entitled “MDS Activity Report” during the time period of PLAINTIFF’s residency at FACILITY. Objections: Seeks quality assurance documents that are protected from disclosure by California Evidence Code section 1157 and 42 U.S.C. section 1395i-3(b)(1)(B).182 Please produce any and all CASPER reports entitled “MDS Admit/Discharge Reports” during the time period of PLAINTIFF’s residency at FACILITY. Objections: Seeks quality assurance documents that are protected from disclosure by California Evidence Code section 1157 and 42 U.S.C. section 1395i-3(b)(1)(B).183 Please produce the audit data for any and all MDS Records/Assessments regarding PLAINTIFF. Objections: Seeks quality assurance documents that are protected from disclosure by California Evidence Code section 1157 and 42 U.S.C. section 1395i-3(b)(1)(B).After a diligent search and a reasonable inquiry, responding party is unable to comply with the request because the documents have either never existed or have been destroyed.184 Please produce all DOCUMENTS evidencing Medical Record Audits conducted on DECEDENT’s medical chart during or after PLAINTIFF’s residency period at the FACILITY. After a diligent search and a reasonable inquiry, responding party is unable to comply with the request because the documents have either never existed or have been destroyed.RPD Nos. 90, 101-103, 117, 153, 155, 165, 167, 171, 173-180, 182Pomona Healthcare served unverified further responses to requests numbers 90, 101-103, 117, 153, 155, 165, 167, 171, 173-180, and 182. Plaintiff, on reply, states these responses will be sufficient once they are verified. Unverified responses are tantamount to no response at all. Plaintiff’s motion is GRANTED as to these requests. Pomona Healthcare must provide verifications. RPD Nos. 106, 107, 111Plaintiff argues Pomona Healthcare’s responses to request numbers 106, 107, and 111 do not comply with Code Civ. Proc., section 2031.23. The responses state that the documents requested were lost or misplaced. Section 2031.230 provides that “a representation of inability to comply with the particular demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall affirm that a diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that demand.” Defendant must also state the name and address of any natural person or organization known or believed to have the requested items. Pomona Healthcare’s responses did not include a statement that it made a diligent search and reasonable inquiry in an effort to comply with the demand. Therefore, the responses do not comply with section 2031.230. Plaintiff’s motion is GRANTED with respect to these requests.RPD No. 172Plaintiff argues that the response to RPD 172 is insufficient because the documents produced were for an incorrect time period. Because the documents produced were from the wrong time period, the motion is GRANTED with respect to this request.RPD Nos. 51, 158, 159 These requests seek lease agreements, bank agreements, guarantees, and revolving credit agreements. Pomona Healthcare objects on the grounds that the records are not relevant to this matter. Plaintiff argues the documents are relevant to determine whether Pomona Healthcare and Co-Defendants are alter egos of each other. In opposition, Pomona Healthcare argues that the lease is not relevant to whether Defendants are alter egos of each other.To recover on an alter ego theory, a plaintiff need not use the words “alter ego,” but must allege sufficient facts to show a unity of interest and ownership, and an unjust result if the corporation is treated as the sole actor. (Leek v. Cooper (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 399, 415.) Factors to be considered include: (1) whether there was commingling of funds and other assets; (2) failure to segregate funds of separate entities; (3) the unauthorized diversion of corporate funds or assets to other than corporate uses; (4) the treatment by an individual of corporate assets as that individual’s own assets; (5) the failure to adequately capitalize a corporation; and (6) the use of the corporate form as a shell. (Id. at 417.)Here, because the lease agreements and financial records would show whether Pomona Healthcare and Co-Defendants comingled funds and other assets, including the leased premises, the documents requested are relevant to whether Defendants are alter egos of each other. However, the financial documents must be limited to Co-Defendants Plaintiff alleges are alter egos of Pomona Healthcare. The motion is GRANTED as modified with respect to these RPDs. RPD Nos. 93, 94 These requests seek emails sent or received by agents or employees of Defendants which reference or relate to reducing labor hours, overtime hours, the labor budget, and other similar topics involving staffing. Pomona Healthcare alleges these requests are vague. Pomona Healthcare represents in opposition that the requested documents were destroyed and that it made a reasonable search and inquiry regarding the requested emails. The Court finds this response is compliant with Code Civ. Proc., section 2031.230 and that Pomona Healthcare is unable to comply with the requests. Therefore, the motion is DENIED as to these RPDs.RPD Nos. 52, 59 These requests seek emails containing incident reports and other reports about all residents related to pressure sores between January 2020 and March 2022. Pomona Healthcare objected to these requests on the grounds that they were overbroad and violated the privacy of third parties. Pomona Healthcare argues in opposition that request number 59 is overbroad and burdensome because it requests all documents authored by a facility employee.The requests are limited to a reasonable time before and through the time Decedent was a resident at the facility at issue. The requests are also limited to pressure sores and specify that patients’ names except for Decedent’s are to be redacted. Additionally, the emails are relevant to whether there was a practice and pattern of understaffing which caused pressure wounds in patients at the facility at issue as alleged in the Complaint. (Compl., ¶65.) Therefore, the emails are discoverable, the requests are not overbroad, and Plaintiff is willing to redact patient names to avoid violating the privacy of third parties. In opposition, Pomona Healthcare argues that merely redacting patient names is not enough to protect patients’ medical records. However, Pomona Healthcare does not identify what, if any, other identifying information exists which would violate their patients’ right to privacy. Additionally, as Plaintiff points out the right to privacy does not support a blanket denial of a petition to compel production of documents. (Board of Medical Quality Assurance v. Hazel Hawkins Memorial Hospital (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 561, 565; Rudnick v. Sup. Ct. (1974) 11 Cal.3d 924, 933.) Pomona Healthcare also argues that the records are not relevant to Plaintiff’s care. However, the records are relevant to whether there was a pattern of understaffing which caused pressure wounds in patients. Thus, the motion is GRANTED with respect to these requests.RPD Nos. 168, 170, 172, 181Plaintiff also argues that Pomona Healthcare’s further responses to 168, 170, 172, and 181 are deficient because the documents produced redacted Medicare and Resident ID numbers. Plaintiff alleges that she requires these numbers to correlate the numbers with other records. Redacting the name would preserve patient anonymity. The Court finds that although Resident ID numbers would not lead to the identification of patients, releasing Medicare numbers would violate patient privacy. Because Plaintiff requires at least the Resident ID numbers to use the data produced, the motion is granted with respect to these requests. Pomona Healthcare must release the records with the Resident ID numbers unredacted. These requests thus are GRANTED in part and DENIED in part.RPD Nos. 61, 62 These requests seek drug records for the entire facility, not limited to Plaintiff and not limited in time. Pomona Healthcare objected on the grounds that these requests are overbroad and irrelevant to the issues framed in the Complaint. The Court agrees that the Complaint does not state Defendants failed to provide Decedent with medication or that her medication contributed to her pressure sores, the only injury alleged in the Complaint. Therefore, the motion is DENIED with respect to these requests.RPD Nos. 57, 63, 64, 111 These requests seek preventative maintenance logs, reports related to patient acuity, and other patient data. Pomona Healthcare objected to these requests for the same reasons as RPD Nos. 52 and 59. Pomona Healthcare argues in opposition that the records are not relevant to Plaintiff’s pressure wounds. The requests are properly limited to the time Decedent was a resident. However, these requests are not limited to the condition and do not state patient names must be redacted. Therefore, the requests must be limited to patients and logs related to pressure sores and must require that patient names be redacted except for Decedent’s name. Pomona Healthcare argues in opposition that requests 63 and 64 violate patients’ medical privacy even if names are redacted. However, as discussed above, the Court finds redacting patient names is sufficient to protect their medical privacy absent the identification of any further personal identifying information by Defendant. The motion is GRANTED as modified with respect to these requests.RPD No. 113This request seeks raw data sent to the CMS Payroll system, punch detail notification documents, and agreements to waive meal breaks. Pomona Healthcare objected on the grounds that the information is not readily accessible because of undue burden and expense. The data requested includes payroll and time records for all employees of Pomona Healthcare, including staff who would not have been involved in Decedent’s care. It is reasonable to infer that it would cause Pomona Healthcare undue burden and expense to parse the staff involved in Decedent’s care from the documents requested. Therefore, the motion is DENIED with respect to this request.RPD No. 97 This request seeks time adjustment requests for staff whose hours were calculated or included in the facility’s total nursing hours per patient day during Plaintiff’s residence. Pomona Healthcare objected on the grounds that “Responding party is still in the process of conducting a reasonable search and diligent inquiry regarding the responsive information. Discovery and investigation are continuing, and responding defendant reserves its right to amend this response or provide a further response at a later date.” Pomona Healthcare did not provide a complete response to this RPD because it claimed an investigation was ongoing. Because it has been nearly a year since the original RPDs were served, the motion is GRANTED with respect to this RPD. RPD Nos. 183-184 These requests seek audit data for MDS Records/Assessments regarding Decedent and documents evidencing medical record audits conducted on Decedent’s medical chart during the time she resided at the facility. In addition to the objections about protection from disclosure, Pomona Healthcare alleged the records never existed or have been destroyed. As Plaintiff points out, Code  Civ. Proc., section 2031.230 requires the responding party to respond with a representation of inability to comply, affirm that a diligent search and reasonable inquiry was made, whether the document existed, was destroyed, lost, misplaced, or stolen. Here, because Pomona Healthcare alleged these records both never existed or were destroyed it is not apparent which of these statements is true. If the records never existed, Pomona Healthcare must specify that the records never existed. If the records were destroyed, Pomona Healthcare is required to set forth any natural person or organization the party believes possesses the information. Here, because it is not clear whether the records ever existed, the motion is GRANTED with respect to these requests.Pomona Healthcare also argues RPD No. 184 seeks privileged information. However, the records requested do not appear to seek privileged material. Additionally, Pomona Healthcare failed to produce a privilege log despite representing it would do so at the last IDC on this matter. Accordingly, the requests are still granted as stated above. If Defendant still contends that responsive materials are privileged, it is ORDERED to produce a privilege log within 20 days after the date of this order. Sanctions are mandatory because Pomona Healthcare unsuccessfully opposed this motion. Because the Court granted the majority of Plaintiff’s motion, the Court finds that it was not substantially justified in opposing this motion. However, Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is excessive. The Court awards Plaintiff $2,840 for four hours of attorney time at a rate of $650 per hour plus filing fees. DATED:  June 27, 2024______________________Hon. Jill Feeney Judge of the Superior Court