  Case Number:  24TRCV01095    Hearing Date:   November 27, 2024    Dept:  E 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest District
Torrance Dept. E




 
MOISES
  BUGAREL, an Individual,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:


 
24TRCV01095




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  Denied
 




 
LOS
  ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY, and DOES 1 to 50,
  Inclusive,


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:              November
27, 2024
 
Moving Parties:          Plaintiff Moises Bugarel 
 
Responding Party:      Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation 
 
HEARING: Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Requests for Productions, Set One
 
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
 
RULING
 
            The Court denies the Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Requests for Productions, Set One. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On March
29, 2024, Plaintiff Moises
Bugarel filed the Complaint against Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority, alleging causes of action for negligent operation of
a motor vehicle and general negligence arising from an alleged one-vehicle
collision.
 
            On July 1, 2024, Plaintiff served
the Request for Production of Documents, Set One. 
 
            On September 17, 2024, Defendant
served responses.
 
            On October 31, 2024, Plaintiff sent
a meet and confer letter to Defendant. 
 
            On the same day, Plaintiff requested
an extension for the November 1 deadline to compel further responses. Defendant
denied this request. 
 
            On November 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the instant Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Requests for Productions, Set One.
 
            On November 14, 2024,
Defendant filed the Opposition.
 
            On November 20, 2024,
Plaintiff filed the Reply.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
            
            The propounding party
may file motions to compel further responses to requests for production if it
believes the responses received are (1) evasive, (2) incomplete, or (3) if the
objections raised are meritless or overly general. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (a
The burden is on the moving party to “set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (b)(1).)  This burden “is
met simply by a fact-specific showing of relevance.” (TBG Ins. Servs. Corp. v.
Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 443, 448.) In response to a motion to
compel further responses, the respondent bears the burden of justifying any
objections. (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245,
255.)
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Defendant requests that
the Court compel Plaintiff to provide further responses to the Requests
for Production Nos. 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 22, 28, 29, 30, 31, 43, 44, and 46, 
 
Meet and Confer
 
A motion to compel
must be “accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Code
Civ. Proc., 2031.310 subd. (a).) Section 2016.040 states that “a meet and
confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a
reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue
presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., 2016.040.)
 
Plaintiff emphasizes that the reasonable and
good faith attempt standard for meeting and conferring depends on factors such
as the history of the litigation, the nature of the issues, and the scope of
discovery. Plaintiff asserts that they met this obligation by sending
correspondence outlining Defendant’s deficient responses on October 31, 2024,
and attempting further discussions on November 1, 2024, which included a
request for an extension to file the motion. Defendant refused this request.
 
In opposition, Defendant
argues that Plaintiff's counsel did not fulfill the meet-and-confer requirement
in good faith before filing the Motion to Compel. Defendant points out that
Plaintiff's meet and confer letter was only 1.5 pages long, merely requested a
privilege log, and did not specify which document requests were at issue. The
letter lacked the detail and specificity found in Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel
and Separate Statement. Additionally, Plaintiff’s counsel sent the
meet-and-confer letter just one day before the deadline for filing the Motion
to Compel, leaving no time for a meaningful discussion or for scheduling an
Informal Discovery Conference. Defendant contends that this timing shows
Plaintiff’s counsel was not sincere in attempting to resolve the issue
informally and was instead trying to force an extension of the deadline.
 
In contrast,
Defendant's counsel had timely sent a meet and confer letter 19 days before
their Motion to Compel deadline, demonstrating a reasonable and good faith
effort to resolve discovery disputes. Defendant asserts that if Plaintiff’s
counsel had similarly acted in a timely manner, they would have been open to
further discussions and possibly an extension. However, because Plaintiff's
counsel delayed until the last minute, Defendant argues that the meet and confer
process was conducted in bad faith.
 
In reply, Plaintiff
argues that upon discovering an error in the initial meet and confer letter
sent on October 2, 2024, the correct letter outlining deficiencies in Defendant’s
responses to Plaintiff’s first set of Requests for Production of Documents was
sent on October 31, 2024. With the November 1, 2024, deadline to file a motion
to compel approaching, Plaintiff’s counsel called Defendant’s counsel to
request an extension of the 45-day deadline to allow sufficient time for
meaningful meet-and-confer discussions and an IDC. Defense counsel refused the
request, despite Plaintiff's counsel citing the Court's expectations outlined
in Department E’s rules, which encourage professional courtesy in agreeing to
reasonable time extensions for completing an IDC.
 
Plaintiff asserts
that the refusal to extend the deadline made it impossible to complete an IDC
before filing the motion to compel, despite Plaintiff’s efforts to resolve the
dispute informally. To avoid unnecessary court intervention, Plaintiff proposes
that the Court schedule an IDC on the date of the motion hearing, November 27,
2024, to address and potentially resolve the discovery dispute.
 
“A determination of
whether an attempt at informal discovery resolution is adequate also involves
the exercise of discretion. The level of effort at informal resolution which
satisfies the ‘reasonable and good faith attempt’ standard depends upon the circumstances.
In a larger, more complex discovery context, a greater effort at informal
resolution may be warranted. In a simpler, or more narrowly focused case, a
more modest effort may suffice. The history of the litigation, the nature of
the interaction between counsel, the nature of the issues, the type and scope
of discovery requested, the prospects for success and other similar factors can
be relevant. Judges have broad powers and responsibilities to determine what
measures and procedures are appropriate in varying circumstances.” Obregon
v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431. 
 
Here, Plaintiff’s
meet and confer letter was insufficient under Section 2016.040.
While the Court finds that Plaintiff acted in good faith and only sent the meet
and confer the day before the deadline because of an honest mistake, Section
2016.040 requires that informal resolution attempts must be both in good faith
and reasonable. A one-and-a-half-page letter sent one day before the filing
deadline that does not specify which documents are at issue is not a reasonable
attempt at informal resolution because it does not contain the required
specification to show a “good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each
issue presented” or allow Defendant to respond to each discovery request at
issue. (Code Civ. Proc., 2016.040.)  Furthermore,
while it may be courteous to grant an extension, the Code of Civil Procedure
does not require such from Defendant.
 
            Therefore, the Court
denies the Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Productions, Set One,
for failure to adequately meet and confer.
 
Sanctions
 
Defendant contends
that the failure to meet and confer constitutes an abuse of the discovery
process and requests monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,551.00, citing
section 2023.020. (Surh Decl., ¶ 16.) Section 2023.020 states:  
 
Notwithstanding the
outcome of the particular discovery motion, the court shall impose a monetary
sanction ordering¿that any party or attorney¿who fails to confer as required
pay the¿reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred by anyone as a
result of that conduct. (Code Civ. Proc., 2023.020.)
 
While Defendant is
entitled to sanctions based on Plaintiff's failure to meet and confer,
Defendant’s request for sanctions is exuberant. Given the circumstances of the
Motion, including Plaintiffs good faith mistake and the fact that Defendant did
not have to oppose the motion on the merits, the Court finds that sanctions in
the amount of $500 are appropriate.
 
Therefore, the
Court imposes sanctions on Plaintiff in the amount of $500.
 
 