 Case Number:  24TRCV01860    Hearing Date:   November 27, 2024    Dept:  E 


Superior Court of
  California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest District
Torrance Dept. E




 
NOT BY SIGHT, LLC, a California Limited Liability
  Corporation; GLADNEY JOHNSON, TRUSTEE OF THE GLADNEY JOHNSON FAMILY TRUST
  DATED JUNE 29, 2015, AND DENISE JOHNSON,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case
  No.:


 
24TRCV01860




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative] Granted




 
ZEYAD REYAD ELALAMI, an individual; BUY 2 LET
  INVESTMENTS, LLC, an entity of unknown registration; LUXOR FUNDING GROUP,
  INC., a California corporation; and DOES 1-5, inclusive,


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date:              November 27, 2024
 
Moving Party:             Defendants Zeyad Elalami, Buy2Let
Investments, and Luxor Funding Group, Inc.
 
Responding
Party:      Plaintiffs Not by Sight, LLC,
Gladney Johnson, and Denise Johnson
 
HEARING:
Motion
to Expunge Lis Pendens
 
            The Court considered
the moving, opposition, and reply papers.
 
RULING
 
The Court grants the Motion to Expunge
Lis Pendens.
 
 
BACKGROUND
            
On June 3, 2024, Plaintiffs Not by Sight, LLC,
Gladney Johnson, and Denise Johnson, filed the Complaint alleging causes of
action for breach of contract, breach of the implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing, negligent misrepresentation, constructive fraud,
fraudulent misrepresentation, promissory estoppel, quiet title, wrongful
foreclosure and wrongful eviction, injunctive relief, declaratory relief, and
preliminary and permanent injunctions arising from the foreclosure sale of the
property.
 
            On October 25, 2024,
Defendants filed the instant Motion to Expunge Lis Pendens.
 
            On November 13, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed the Opposition.
 
            On November 14, 2024,
Defendants filed the Reply.
            
 
LEGAL STANDARD
“A lis pendens is a recorded document giving constructive notice that
an action has been filed affecting title or right to possession of the real
property described in the notice.¿ A lis pendens may be filed by any party in
an action who asserts a real property claim.”¿ (Kirkeby v. Sup. Ct., (2004) 33 Cal. 4th
642, 647.) Code Civ. Proc. §405.4 defines a “real property claim,” in relevant
part, as “the cause or causes of action in a pleading which would, if
meritorious, affect [] title to, or the right to possession of, specific real
property….”¿  
 
 “At any time after notice of pendency of action has been
recorded, any party, or any nonparty with an interest in the real property
affected thereby, may apply to the court in which the action is pending to
expunge the notice.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc. §405.30.)¿ “[T]he court shall order that
the notice be expunged if the court finds that the claimant has not established
by a preponderance of the evidence the probable validity of the real property
claim.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc. § 405.32.)¿ “The party filing the notice of lis
pendens need only show that the action ‘affects’ title to or right of
possession of the real property, not that the party itself is seeking an
interest in the title or possession.”  (Pac. Lumber Co. v. Superior Court (1990) 226 Cal. App.3d
371, 375.)  “Unlike most other motions, when a motion to expunge is
brought, the burden is on the party opposing the motion to show the existence
of a real property claim.”¿ (Kirkeby, 33 Cal. 4th at 647.) 
 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Defendants move for a Court Order expunging the lis pendens filed by
NOT BY SIGHT, LLC, a California Limited Liability Corporation; Gladney Johnson,
Trustee of The Gladney Johnson Family Trust, and Denise Johnson.
 
Defendants argue that the lis pendens should be expunged under Code of
Civil Procedure section 405.31 because there is no operative pleading
containing a real property claim. They assert that the Court's October 21,
2024, ruling eliminated all of Plaintiffs' causes of action that could
potentially impact the title or possession of the subject property, leaving no
basis for the lis pendens to remain.
 
Defendants argue that even if Plaintiffs were to file an amended
complaint, they cannot establish the probable validity of any real property
claim by a preponderance of the evidence. First, Defendants highlight that
Plaintiffs have already presented a detailed 27-page verified complaint, and
any amended pleading must address legal deficiencies and reconcile factual
inconsistencies with the original. Under the sham pleading doctrine, Plaintiffs
cannot omit harmful allegations from the original complaint without
explanation, as such omissions render subsequent pleadings vulnerable to
challenge. (Hendy v. Losse (1991) 54 Cal.3d 723, 742-743.)
 
Second, Defendants note that the Court granted their anti-SLAPP motion
regarding the fifth (fraudulent misrepresentation), tenth (declaratory relief),
and eleventh (preliminary and permanent injunction) causes of action. These
claims cannot be re-alleged in any amended complaint because anti-SLAPP rulings
preclude leave to amend as they aim to terminate claims that chill First
Amendment rights promptly. (Simmons v. Allstate Ins. Co. (2001) 92
Cal.App.4th 1068 at pp. 1073-1074.)
 
Third, Defendants assert that Plaintiffs cannot show probable validity
of a real property claim, such as quiet title, because Defendants acquired the
property through a valid foreclosure sale. (Melendrez v. D&I Investment,
Inc. (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1251.) As bona fide purchasers for value
without notice of adverse claims, Defendants hold superior title to the
property, as recognized by the Court's ruling.  If Plaintiffs were to reassert a wrongful
foreclosure claim, they must comply with the tender requirement by alleging
payment of the full debt amount, as required to challenge a foreclosure sale. (Abdallah
v. United Savings Bank (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1101, 1109.)
Plaintiffs failed to allege or show tender during the earlier anti-SLAPP motion
proceedings. Additionally, Plaintiffs cannot claim wrongful foreclosure against
Defendants, as Defendants did not conduct the foreclosure. (See Exhibit B,
Minute Order at p. 28.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that the motion to expunge the lis
pendens is premature because there is no operative complaint currently on file,
as Plaintiffs have until November 22, 2024, to file their amended complaint.
Under Code of Civil Procedure §§ 405.31 and 405.32, a court must determine
whether the complaint contains a "real property claim" or if the
claimant has established the probable validity of such a claim by a
preponderance of the evidence. Plaintiffs contend that the allegations of the
complaint determine whether a real property claim exists, without the need for
independent evidence. (Urez Corp. v. Superior Court (1987) 190 Cal.App.3d 1141, 1149.)
 
Plaintiffs assert that since no amended complaint has yet been filed,
the court cannot determine whether a real property claim is involved. Further,
without an operative complaint, Plaintiffs cannot be expected to establish the
probable validity of a claim that does not currently exist. Plaintiffs argue
that Defendants’ motion is based on an imaginary amended complaint and was
improperly filed after the court ruled on the demurrer on October 21, 2024,
knowing the deadline for Plaintiffs to file their amended complaint is November
22, 2024. Thus, Plaintiffs request the court deny Defendants’ motion as
premature.
 
In reply, Defendants argue that under Code of Civil Procedure section
405.31, a lis pendens must be expunged if the pleading it is based on does not
contain a real property claim. Since the court sustained Defendants’ demurrer
to all causes of action with leave to amend and Plaintiffs have not yet filed
an amended complaint, there is no operative pleading containing a real property
claim to support the lis pendens. Defendants assert that the absence of such a
claim mandates expungement.
 
Defendants contend that Plaintiffs’ argument, that the motion is
premature because they have until November 22, 2024, to file an amended
complaint, is unsupported by any legal authority. They argue that Plaintiffs’
failure to present any other opposition effectively concedes the motion.
Defendants further assert that they are entitled to seek expungement at any
time, including after demonstrating the legal invalidity of Plaintiffs’ claims.
 
Defendants also argue that Plaintiffs could have filed their amended
complaint before the November 22, 2024, deadline, thereby providing an
opportunity to demonstrate a real property claim with probable validity. By
choosing to wait until the deadline and failing to present any factual showing
to support their claim, Plaintiffs have failed to meet their burden. Thus,
Defendants request that the court expunge the lis pendens.
 
While Plaintiffs contend that the instant motion is premature because
they have until November 22, 2024, to file an amended complaint. Plaintiffs
have failed to file an Amended Complaint by November 22, 2024. Thus, there are
no active claims that affect the title to or right of possession of the subject property. (Pac. Lumber Co.,
supra, 226 Cal. App.3d
371, 375.)  
 
Therefore, the Court grants the Motion to Expunge
Lis Pendens.