..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 24NWCV02740
Plaintiff's Name: Peter Gazerro
Defendant's Name: Jennifer Dekay and Downey Patriot
People-Names: Peter Gazerro, Jennifer Dekay
Company-Names: Downey Patriot
Places: Downey
Dates: April 14, 2024, April 17, 2024, April 19, 2024, May 10, 2024, August 26, 2024, November 8, 2024, November 12, 2024
Events: Threats made by Plaintiff to Jennifer Dekay, False report of crime made by Jennifer Dekay to Downey Police Department, Civil Harassment Restraining Order issued against Plaintiff
Money: None
Intentions: To strike Plaintiff's causes of action as barred by the doctrine of collateral estoppel
Facts: Plaintiff made threats to Jennifer Dekay, Jennifer Dekay made a false report of crime to Downey Police Department, Plaintiff was refused to publish advertisements in Downey Patriot, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Jennifer Dekay and Downey Patriot
Disputes: Whether Plaintiff's claims are barred by the doctrine of collateral estoppel
Acts: Making threats, making false report of crime, refusing to publish advertisements
Agreements: None
Laws: Civil Code ยง52.1, Code of Civil Procedure ยง425.16, Evidence Code Sections 452, 453
Case Citations: Shekhter v. Financial Indem. Co., Flatley v. Mauro, Gerbosi v. Gaims, Weil, West & Epstein, LLP, Soukup v. Law Offices of Herbert Hafif, Venegas v. County of Los Angeles, Christensen v. Superior Court, Ess v. Eskaton Props., Inc., Hughes v. Pair, Fletcher v. Western Nat. Life Ins. Co.
Statutes: California Civil Code, California Code of Civil Procedure, California Evidence Code
Roles: Plaintiff (Peter Gazerro), Defendant (Jennifer Dekay and Downey Patriot), Judge
Significant Statements:
* Defendants have met their initial burden of showing that Plaintiff's causes of action arise from Defendants' constitutional rights of free speech or petition for redress of grievances.
* Plaintiff has failed to demonstrate a probability of prevailing on the second and third causes of action.
* The special motion to strike is GRANTED as to the second and third causes of action.
```

And here is a summary of the tentative ruling in English text:

The Judge has issued a tentative ruling on the Special Motion to Strike filed by the defendants, Jennifer Dekay and Downey Patriot, against the plaintiff, Peter Gazerro. The defendants have argued that the plaintiff's claims are barred by the doctrine of collateral estoppel.

The Judge has found that the defendants have met their initial burden of showing that the plaintiff's causes of action arise from their constitutional rights of free speech or petition for redress of grievances. The Judge has also found that the plaintiff has failed to demonstrate a probability of prevailing on the second and third causes of action, which are for violation of the Bane Act and intentional infliction of emotional distress, respectively.

As a result, the Judge has granted the defendants' special motion to strike as to the second and third causes of action. The Judge has also denied the plaintiff's untimely opposition to the motion.

The Judge has ordered the defendants to give notice of the ruling and has noted that the defendants may move for attorney's fees and costs in a separately noticed motion.
