 Case Number:  23NWCV01301    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  C Rafael Mora Gonzalez vs
Leticia Banuelos
Case No.: 23NWCV01301
Hearing Date: November 12, 2024 @ 9:30 a.m. 
 
#2 
Tentative Ruling 
I.               
Defendant
Leticia Banuelos’s Motion for Order to Compel Plaintiff Rafael Mora Gonzalez’s
Production of Cellular Device for Inspection is GRANTED.  Plaintiff to comply with the demand within 45
days of notice of this order.  Sanctions are imposed
against Plaintiff in the amount of $470.00, payable within 45 days. 
I.               
Counsel Rene Gutierrez, Esq.’s Motion to
be Relieved as Counsel is GRANTED. 
Defendant to give notice. 
 
This is a personal injury action arising out of a motor
vehicle accident that occurred on April 30, 2021, on E. 59th Place
& King Avenue in Maywood, California.  On April 28, 2023, Plaintiff Rafael Mora
Gonzalez (“Plaintiff”) filed this lawsuit against Defendant Leticia Banuelos
(“Defendant”) alleging causes of action for negligence.
Before the Court are two motions.  The First is Defendant’s Motion for Order to
Compel Plaintiff’s Production of Cellular Device for Inspection. The Second is
a motion by Attorney Rene Gutierrez and BD&J, PC to be relieved as counsel
for Plaintiff.  Both motions are
unopposed.  
Motion to Compel Production of Cellular Device
for Inspection 
If a party to whom interrogatories and
document demands are directed fails to respond at all, the propounding party’s
remedy is to seek a court order compelling answers thereto. (CCP §§ 2030.290,
2031.300.) All that needs to be shown is that the discovery was properly served
on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no
response of any kind has been served. The moving party is not required to show
a reasonable and good faith attempt to resolve the matter informally before
filing this motion. A motion to compel initial discovery responses need not
show good cause, meeting and conferring, or timely filing, and need not be
accompanied by a separate statement. (See Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting,
Inc. v. Pac. Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 404.) The
failure to timely respond also waives all objections.
On April 9,
2024, Defendant served upon Plaintiff a Demand for Inspection of Cellular
Device(s) to Plaintiff. (Phillips Decl., ¶5, Exhibit B.) Plaintiff’s response
was due on May 13, 2024. (Id., ¶6.) Defendant filed the instant motion
August 8, 2024, after several meet and confer efforts proved unsuccessful. (Id.,
¶¶ 6-13.) 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to Compel Demand for Inspection of
Cellular Device(s) is GRANTED. Plaintiff to comply within 45 days of notice of
this order. 
 
Sanctions 
 
Misuse of the discovery process constituting conduct subject to
sanctions include “failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of
discovery” and “failing to confer in person, by telephone, or by letter with an
opposing party or attorney in a reasonable and good faith attempt to resolve
informally any dispute concerning discovery.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010,
subds. (d) and (i).) The court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that
conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030,
subd. (a).) 
 
Defendant
requests sanctions in the amount of $1,392.50 (2 hours researching and writing
the motion, an anticipated half hour reviewing Plaintiff’s response brief, one
hour preparing a reply brief, and two hours appearing before the Court at the
hearing at a rate of $205.00 per hour, as well as reimbursement of the filing
fee of $60.00). The Court notes that no opposition has been filed and therefore
no reply will be necessary.  
 
Given the
stated reasons for withdrawal of Plaintiff’s counsel (discussed below), the
Court imposes sanctions upon Plaintiff only, in the reduced amount of $470.00,
payable within 45 days.  
Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel 
Attorney Rene Gutierrez and
BD&J, PC, Counsel for Plaintiff, moves to be relieved as counsel. 
Good cause exists to grant the motion based on any of the grounds
under Rules of Professional Conduct Rule 3-700(C). Rule 3-700(c) provides that
an attorney may withdraw based on any of the following: (1) The client (a)
insists upon presenting a claim or defense that is not warranted under existing
law and cannot be supported by good faith argument for an extension,
modification, or reversal of existing law, or (b) seeks to pursue an illegal
course of conduct, or (c) insists that the member pursue a course of conduct
that is illegal or that is prohibited under these rules or the State Bar Act,
or (d) by other conduct renders it unreasonably difficult for the member to
carry out the employment effectively, or (e) insists, in a matter not pending
before a tribunal, that the member engage in conduct that is contrary to the
judgment and advice of the member but not prohibited under these rules or the
State Bar Act, or (f) breaches an agreement or obligation to the member as to
expenses or fees. (2) The continued employment is likely to result in a
violation of these rules or of the State Bar Act; or (3) the inability to work
with co-counsel indicates that the best interests of the client likely will be
served by withdrawal; or (4) The member's mental or physical condition renders
it difficult for the member to carry out the employment effectively; or (5) The
client knowingly and freely assents to termination of the employment; or (6)
The member believes in good faith, in a proceeding pending before a tribunal, that
the tribunal will find the existence of other good cause for withdrawal. 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362 requires that the following
be submitted in support of an attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel
pursuant Code of Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (2): (1) a notice of
motion and motion directed to the client (made on Notice of Motion and Motion
to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil (Judicial Council Form, MC-051)); (2) a
declaration stating in general terms and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (2) is brought instead of filing a
consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (1) (made on
Declaration in Support of Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil
(Judicial Council Form, MC-052)); (3) a proof of service evidencing service of
the notice of motion and motion, declaration, and proposed order on the client
and on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) a proposed
order relieving counsel (prepared on Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil (Judicial Council Form, MC-053)).  (Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (a), (c), (d), (e).) 
The attorney declaration
demonstrates good cause for withdrawal based on a significant breakdown in the
attorney-client relationship.  Plaintiff
was served by mail at the client’s last known address with copies of the motion
papers.
The Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel is GRANTED. 
 