  Case Number:  22PSCV00602    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  M  Capital Global California LLC v. Does 1-50  Cross-Defendant  M Capital Global’s Demurrer to Cross-Complainants’ Cross-Complaint Cross-Defendant  M Capital Global’s Motion to Strike Cross-Complainants’ Cross-Complaint  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer with leave to amend as to the  First, Second, Third, and Fifth Causes of Action in the cross-complaint. The  Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the Fourth and Sixth Causes of Action.  The Court GRANTS the motion to strike paragraph 2 of Lo’s prayer  for relief and paragraph 2 of Chang’s prayer for relief with leave to amend,  but DENIES the motion to strike paragraph 77 and paragraph 2 of Wang’s prayer  for relief.  Cross-Complainants must file and serve an amended cross-complaint  within 20 days of the Court’s order.                Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a business dispute. On June 17, 2022, plaintiff M Capital  Global California LLC (Plaintiff) filed this action. On November 7, 2022,  Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (FAC) against defendants  Jones Day, Inc. (Jones Day), Chia Jui Wen (Wen), Min Jing Chang (Chang), Roger  Lo (Lo), Wenyi Wang (Wang), and Does 1 through 50, alleging causes of action  for fraud and conversion.  On November 28, 2023, Jones Day, Chang, Lo, and Wang  (collectively, Cross-Complainants) filed a cross-complaint against Plaintiff,  Sokly Chen aka Xing Chen (Chen), Mengmeng Li (Li), and Roes 1 through 50,  alleging causes of action for breach of contract, fraud, negligent  misrepresentation, intentional infliction of emotional distress, wrongful  termination, and conversion.  On February 29, 2024, Plaintiff demurred to and moved to strike  the cross-complaint. On April 15, 2024, Cross-Complainants opposed the demurrer.  Plaintiff did not file a reply by the time this tentative ruling was prepared.  LEGAL  STANDARD – Demurrer                A demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency  of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form  or content of the opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or  cross-complaint). (Code Civ. Proc., § 422.10; see Donabedian v.  Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) It is not the function  of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for  purposes of ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are  assumed to be true. (Id.)  A  demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the  pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially  noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian,  supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 994.) No other extrinsic evidence can be  considered. (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868,  881 [error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting  demurrer]; see also Afuso v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862, disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal  v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287 [error to consider  contents of release not part of court record].)  A  demurrer can be utilized where the “face of the complaint” itself is incomplete  or discloses some defense that would bar recovery. (Guardian North Bay, Inc.  v. Superior Court (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 963, 971-972.) The “face of  the complaint” includes material contained in attached exhibits that are  incorporated by reference into the complaint, or in a superseded complaint in the same action. (Frantz v.  Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94; see also Barnett v. Fireman’s  Fund Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 500, 505 [“[W]e rely on and accept as true the contents of the exhibits and treat as  surplusage the pleader’s allegations as to the legal effect of the exhibits.”])  A demurrer  can only be sustained when it disposes of an entire cause of action. (Poizner  v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong v. City of  Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency (2003) 108  Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.)   DISCUSSION  Meet and Confer  Per Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a), Plaintiff  was required to meet and confer in person or by telephone before bringing this  demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) Plaintiff failed to meet and  confer in person or by telephone. (Ma Decl., ¶¶ 5-10.) Nevertheless, the Court  may not overrule a demurrer for failure to adequately meet and confer. (Code  Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(4).) The Court will still consider the  demurrer, but admonishes Plaintiff to comply with the requirements of the Code  of Civil Procedure going forward.  First Cause of Action – Breach of Contract  “A cause  of action for breach of contract requires pleading of a contract, plaintiff's  performance or excuse for failure to perform, defendant's breach and damage to  plaintiff resulting therefrom. [Citation.] A written contract may be pleaded  either by its terms—set out verbatim in the complaint or a copy of the contract  attached to the complaint and incorporated therein by reference—or by its legal  effect. [Citation.]” (McKell v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142  Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489.)  Plaintiff  demurs to the First Cause of Action for breach of contract in the  cross-complaint on the grounds that it fails to state facts sufficient to  constitute a cause of action and on the grounds that it is uncertain. Plaintiff  contends Lo and Jones Day failed to attach the written agreements alleged in  the cross-complaint, and that the alleged agreement with Wang fails to set  forth the specific terms of the agreement or whether the contract was oral,  written, or implied by conduct. Plaintiff further contends this cause of action  fails because it is unclear when the agreements were to be performed, the  parties to the agreements, who was required to perform, how much was to be  paid, who was to be paid, what the exact terms were, and how the agreements  were breached.  In  opposition, Cross-Complainants contend they have sufficiently pleaded the terms  of the contracts at issue.  The Court finds the cross-complaint  fails to allege sufficient facts to state a cause of action for breach of  contract. Plaintiff correctly contends the cross-complaint fails to  sufficiently set forth the terms of the alleged agreements between the parties.  Cross-Complainants allege Lo entered into separate written contracts with  Plaintiff. (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 37.) No such written agreements are attached to  the cross-complaint, nor are their terms set forth verbatim or by their legal  effect. (See Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 20, 36-40; see McKell, supra, 142 Cal.App.4th at p. 1489.) The  cross-complaint does not allege the duration of the purported contracts, when  they were to be performed, the precise amount of compensation, or when the  compensation was to be paid. (See  Moncada v. West Coast Corp. (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 768, 777, internal  quotation marks omitted [“Where a contract is so uncertain and indefinite that  the intention of the parties in material particulars cannot be ascertained, the  contract is void and unenforceable. [Citation.]”]  The  cross-complaint also does not set forth sufficient terms of the alleged  contract between Plaintiff and Chen on the one hand and Wang on the other. For  example, it does not allege the duration of the agreement, when the contract  was to be performed, or the manner in which Wang agreed to assist Plaintiff and  Chen. (Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 27, 42; see Moncada,  supra, 221 Cal.App.4th at p. 777.) It is not clear what Cross-Complainants  mean when Wang agreed to help Plaintiff and Chen in handling disputes with  another company. (Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 27, 42.)  Moreover,  although not raised in the parties’ respective briefs, the Court notes some  internally contradictory or inconsistent allegations. For example, the  cross-complaint alleges that one of Lo’s obligations to Plaintiff was to form  Jones Day. (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 20.) It is unclear how Jones Day, which  ostensibly did not exist when the agreements were allegedly entered into, could  then become a party to those alleged agreements or could breach the agreement.  (See Id. and  ¶ 39.) Additionally, to the extent Cross-Complainants allege breach of contract  between different parties over different agreements, they should be pleaded  separately from each other rather than combined into one cause of action.  Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the  demurrer to the First Cause of Action with leave to amend.  Second and Third Causes of Action – Fraud & Negligent  Misrepresentation  To state a cause of action for intentional misrepresentation, the  plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating, “(1) a misrepresentation, (2)  knowledge of falsity, (3) intent to induce reliance, (4) actual and justifiable  reliance, and (5) resulting damage. [Citation.]” (Aton Ctr., Inc. v. United  Healthcare Ins. Co. (2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 1214, 1245.) “In California,  fraud must be pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not  suffice. [Citations.] ‘Thus ‘ “the policy of liberal construction of the  pleadings ... will not ordinarily be invoked to sustain a pleading defective in  any material respect.’ ‘ [Citation.] [¶] This particularity requirement  necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what  means the representations were tendered.’ [Citation.] A plaintiff's burden in  asserting a fraud claim against a corporate employer is even greater. In such a  case, the plaintiff must ‘allege the names of the persons who made the  allegedly fraudulent representations, their authority to speak, to whom they  spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written.’ [Citation.]”  (Lazar v. Superior Ct. (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)  To state a cause of action for negligent  misrepresentation, the plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating,  “[M]isrepresentation of a past or existing material fact, without reasonable  ground for believing it to be true, and with intent to induce another's  reliance on the fact misrepresented; ignorance of the truth and justifiable  reliance on the misrepresentation by the party to whom it was directed; and  resulting damage.... [Citation].” (Hydro-Mill Co. v. Hayward,  Tilton & Rolapp Ins. Assocs., Inc. (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 1145,  1154, internal quotation marks omitted.) Claims for negligent misrepresentation  must also be pleaded with specificity. (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003)  30 Cal.4th 167, 184.)  Plaintiff demurs to the Second Cause of Action for  fraud and Third Cause of Action for negligent misrepresentation on the grounds  that that cross-complaint fails to allege sufficient facts to constitute causes  of action and that they are uncertain. Plaintiff contends the cross-complaint  fails to plead facts with the requisite specificity, such as how, when, or  where Plaintiff and Chen made the alleged representations, and to whom they  were made. Plaintiff also contends these causes of action fail under the economic  loss rule since they only allege that they were not compensated as agreed, and  do not allege damages beyond the value of those alleged broken promises.  In opposition, Cross-Complainants contend they have  sufficiently pleaded their claims for fraud and negligent misrepresentation.  The Court finds the cross-complaint fails to state  causes of action for fraud and negligent misrepresentation. The cross-complaint  does not allege how, when, where, or by what means the alleged  misrepresentations were made. (See Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 46-56.) The  cross-complaint also does not allege the additional required allegations for  Plaintiff, who is a corporate employer, requiring allegations of what was said  or written and when the representations were said or written. (See Id.; Lazar,  supra, 12 Cal.4th at p. 645.)  The Court finds Plaintiff’s arguments regarding the  economic loss rule to be unavailing, as that applies to tort remedies in the  context of sales of products and strict liability. (See Robinson Helicopter  Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 987, internal quotation  marks omitted [“Simply stated, the economic loss rule provides: [W]here a  purchaser's expectations in a sale are frustrated because the product he bought  is not working properly, his remedy is said to be in contract alone, for he has  suffered only economic losses.”])  Sales of defective products is not an issue here.  But, the Court does find that the cross-complaint  alleges at most a mere failure to perform as promised, which is not grounds for  a fraud claim. (Bldg. Permit Consultants, Inc. v. Mazur  (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 1400, 1414 [“’The mere failure to perform a promise made  in good faith does not constitute fraud.’ [Citation.]”])  Additionally,  to the  extent Cross-Complainants allege claims against different parties based on  different transactions, they should be pleaded separately from each other  rather than combined into one cause of action.  Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the  demurrer to the Second and Third Causes of Action with leave to amend.  Fourth Cause of Action – Intentional Infliction of Emotional  Distress  To state a cause of action for intentional infliction  of emotional distress, the plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating, “(1)  defendant engaged in extreme and outrageous conduct (conduct so extreme as to  exceed all bounds of decency in a civilized community) with the intent to  cause, or with reckless disregard to the probability of causing, emotional  distress; and (2) as a result, plaintiff suffered extreme or severe emotional  distress.” (Berry v. Frazier (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th 1258, 1273.)  Plaintiff demurs to the Fourth Cause of Action on the  grounds that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action  and is uncertain. Plaintiff contends the allegations of installing a GPS  tracking device on Wang’s vehicle and calling her when she was near a  government building is not extreme and outrageous conduct. Plaintiff also  contends the cross-complaint fails to allege facts demonstrating that the  conduct was done intentionally or recklessly.  In opposition, Cross-Complainants contend they have  pleaded sufficient facts for a claim of intentional infliction of emotional  distress.  The Court finds the cross-complaint alleges  sufficient facts to state a cause of action for intentional infliction of  emotional distress. The cross-complaint alleges that Chen called Wang each time  she was near a federal building where U.S. Customs and Immigration Services was  located, and that she found a tracking device had been installed in the inner  fender of her car. (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 72.) Whether this alleged conduct is  extreme and outrageous is a question of fact. (Berry, supra, 90  Cal.App.5th at p. 1274.) Demurrers are not the appropriate place for  determining the truth of disputed facts. (See Panterra GP, Inc. v. Superior  Court of Kern County (2022) 74 Cal. App. 5th 697, 709.) Moreover, this  cause of action is alleged against Chen, not Plaintiff. Thus, Plaintiff lacks  standing to demur to this cause of action.  Accordingly, the Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the  Fourth Cause of Action for intentional infliction of emotional distress.  Fifth Cause of Action – Wrongful Termination[1]  "The elements of a claim for wrongful discharge  in violation of public policy are (1) an employer-employee relationship, (2)  the employer terminated the plaintiff's employment, (3) the termination was  substantially motivated by a violation of public policy, and (4) the discharge  caused the plaintiff harm." (Yau v. Allen (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th  144, 154.) The plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating the policy, (1) is supported by either constitutional or statutory provisions;  (2) inures  to the benefit of the public rather than serving merely the interests  of the individual; (3) is well established  at the time of the discharge;  and (4) is substantial  and fundamental. (Id. at 155; see also Phillips v. St. Mary Reg'l Med. Ctr. (2002) 96  Cal.App.4th 218, 226.)  Plaintiff demurs to the Fifth Cause of Action for  wrongful termination on the grounds that it fails to state facts sufficient to  constitute a cause of action and is uncertain. Plaintiff contends Cross-Complainants  fail to allege the constitutional or statutory provision that was violated when  they were terminated. Plaintiff contends that the issue of “ghost employees” on  the company’s payroll and the refusal to terminate these “ghost employees”  before submitting the related L-1 visa petition is not a basis for a wrongful  termination claim. Plaintiff further contends Cross-Complainants fail to  establish how this violated public policy.  In opposition, Cross-Complainants contend they have  pleaded sufficient facts to state a cause of action for wrongful termination,  referencing California Labor Code section 1102.5, which prohibits an employer  from firing an employee for reporting a legal, safety, or health violation in  the workplace, i.e., “whistleblowing.”  The Court agrees with Plaintiff. The cross-complaint  does not allege the specific statutory provisions or constitutional provisions upon  which this cause of action is based. (Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 78-86.) Cross-Complainants  reference to Labor Code section 1102.5 does not save this cause of action from demurrer  since that code section is not alleged in the cross-complaint. (See Blank, 39 Cal.3d at p. 318 [demurrer limited to  allegations on the face of the pleading or facts subject to judicial notice]; Donabedian,  supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 994.) The Court may not consider facts  outside of the cross-complaint. (See Ion Equip. Corp., supra, 110  Cal.App.3d at p. 881 [error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum  supporting demurrer].)  Therefore, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Fifth Cause of  Action with leave to amend.  Sixth Cause of Action – Conversion  To state a cause of action for conversion, the plaintiff  must allege facts demonstrating, “(1) the plaintiff's ownership or right to  possession of the property; (2) the defendant's conversion by a wrongful act or  disposition of property rights; and (3) damages....” Lee v.  Hanley (2015) 61 Cal.4th 1225, 1240, internal quotation marks  omitted.)  Plaintiff demurs to the Sixth Cause of Action for  conversion on the grounds that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute  a cause of action and that it is uncertain. Plaintiff contends the  cross-complaint has not alleged any wrongful conduct, arguing that  Cross-Defendants did not assume any control or ownership over the property.  Plaintiff contends Cross-Complainants only allege Wang was terminated and that  she was prohibited from entering the office.  In opposition, Cross-Complainants contend they have  sufficiently pleaded facts to state a cause of action for conversion with  respect to Wang’s personal belongings, which she was unable to retrieve after  her employment was terminated.  The Court finds the cross-complaint alleges  sufficient facts to state a cause of action for conversion. The cross-complaint  alleges Wang was prohibited from going back into the office to retrieve  specific items belonging to her after she was terminated, namely some red wine,  women’s accessories, and a special electronic heater purchased from China, plus  other small items. (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 91.) The Court finds these allegations  sufficient to demonstrate she was deprived of her right to those items. (See Lee,  supra, 61 Cal.4th at p. 1240.)  Based on the foregoing, the Court OVERRULES the  demurrer to the Sixth Cause of Action.                        Plaintiff May Not Demur on Behalf  of the other Cross-Defendants              Plaintiff  makes multiple arguments throughout the demurrer regarding allegations in the  Cross-Complaint made against Chen and Li. Cross-Complainants correctly contend  that Plaintiff’s demurrer does not extend to them. Only Plaintiff demurred to  the Cross-Complaint. (See Notice of Demurrer, pp. 1-2; Demurrer, p. 3; see Cal.  Rules of Court, rule 3.1320, subd. (e).) Plaintiff’s counsel also does not  represent Chen or Li. Accordingly, the Court disregards Plaintiff’s arguments  regarding Chen and Li.  LEGAL STANDARD – Motion to Strike   “Any party, within the time allowed to  respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole  or any part thereof, but this time limitation shall not apply to motions  specified in subdivision (e).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(2).)  “The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in  its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any  irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any  part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of  this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Id., § 436.)  DISCUSSION  Meet and Confer  Per Code of Civil Procedure section 435.5, subdivision (a),  Plaintiff was required to meet and confer in person or by telephone before  bringing this motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).) Plaintiff failed  to meet and confer in person or by telephone. (Ma Decl., ¶¶ 5-10.)  Nevertheless, the Court may not deny a motion to strike for failure to  adequately meet and confer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a)(4).) The Court  will still consider the motion to strike, but admonishes Plaintiff to comply  with the requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure going forward.  Analysis  A claim for punitive damages is subject to a motion to strike when  the allegations fail to rise to the level of malice, oppression, or fraud  necessary under Civil Code section 3294. (Turman v. Turning Point of Central  California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 64.)  Plaintiff moves to strike paragraph 77 and the Cross-Complainants’  respective requests for punitive damages under their prayers for relief. Plaintiff  contends the cross-complaint fails to allege facts sufficient support  Cross-Complainants’ requests for punitive damages, reiterating Plaintiff’s  prior arguments in the demurrer regarding the Second Cause of Action for fraud  and Fourth Cause of Action for intentional infliction of emotional distress.  Given the Court overruled the demurrer to the Fourth Cause of  Action for intentional infliction of emotional distress brought by Weng, the  Court finds the cross-complaint has also alleged sufficient facts to support  the allegations in paragraph 77 and in Wang’s request for punitive damages. (See  Turman, supra, 191 Cal.App.4th at p. 64.)  Given the Court sustained the demurrer to the Second Cause of  Action for fraud brought by Lo, and the Fifth Cause of Action for wrongful  termination (the only cause of action brought by Chang), the Court finds the  cross-complaint fails to allege sufficient facts to support Lo’s and Chang’s requests  for punitive damages.  Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS the motion to strike  paragraph 2 of Lo’s prayer for relief and paragraph 2 of Chang’s prayer for  relief, but DENIES the motion to strike paragraph 77 and paragraph 2 of Wang’s  prayer for relief.  CONCLUSION  The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer with leave to amend as to the  First, Second, Third, and Fifth Causes of Action in the cross-complaint. The  Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the Fourth and Sixth Causes of Action.  The Court GRANTS the motion to strike paragraph 2 of Lo’s prayer  for relief and paragraph 2 of Chang’s prayer for relief with leave to amend,  but DENIES the motion to strike paragraph 77 and paragraph 2 of Wang’s prayer  for relief.  Cross-Complainants must file and serve an amended cross-complaint  within 20 days of the Court’s order.               Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.     