 Case Number:  23PSCV02476    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Weijun  Zhang v. Bolun Zhang, et al.1.      Bolun Zhang’s  Motion to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories; and 2.      Bolun Zhang’s  Motion to Compel Responses to Request for Production of Documents  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court GRANTS Defendant Bolun Zhang’s motions to compel  responses to Form Interrogatories and Request for Production of Documents. Plaintiff  Weijun Zhang must provide verified, code-compliant responses, without  objection, and produce all responsive documents, to Bolun Zhang’s Form  Interrogatories and Request for Production of Documents within 20 days of the  Court’s order.  The Court GRANTS Defendant Bolun Zhang’s requests for monetary  sanctions in the reduced amount of $585.00 per motion, for a total of $1,170.00.  Plaintiff Weijun Zhang and Plaintiff’s counsel of record must pay the monetary  sanctions to Defendant Bolun Zhang’s counsel within 20 days of the Court’s  order.               Defendant Bolun Zhang is ordered to  give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a  real property dispute. On August 14, 2023, Plaintiff Weijun Zhang (Plaintiff)  filed this action against Defendants Bolun Zhang (Bolun), Jinghan Zhang  (Jinghan), All Good Escrow, Inc. (All Good), Taikoo Supply Chain, Inc. (Taikoo)  (collectively, Defendants), and Does 1 through 20. On October 25, 2023,  Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (FAC) against the same  Defendants, alleging causes of action for promissory fraud, breach of oral  contract, rescission of contract pursuant to Civil Code § 1689(b), breach of  covenant of good faith and fair dealing, conversion, actual fraudulent  conveyance, constructive fraudulent conveyance, quiet title, common count:  money had and received, breach of fiduciary duty, imposition of constructive  trust, and civil theft under Penal Code section 496(c).  On April 8, 2024, Defendant Bolun filed motions to compel  responses to Form Interrogatories and Request for Production of Documents. The  motions are unopposed.  LEGAL  STANDARD  When a party  fails to serve a timely response to interrogatories, the party propounding the  interrogatories may move for an order compelling a response. (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 2030.290, subd. (b).) A party who fails to provide a timely response waives  any objection, including one based on privilege or work product. (Id., §  2030.290, subd. (a).) “The court shall impose a monetary sanction… against any  party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to  compel a response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to  the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances  make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Id., § 2030.290, subd.  (c).)  When a party  fails to serve a timely response to an inspection demand, the party making the  demand may move for an order compelling a response to the inspection demand.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (b).) A party who fails to provide a timely  response waives any objection, including one based on privilege or work  product. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a).) “[T]he court shall impose a  monetary sanction… against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully  makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for inspection,  copying, testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the one subject to the  sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make  the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Id., § 2031.300, subd. (c).)  DISCUSSION  Meet and Confer  Although meeting and conferring is not required before bringing  motions to compel, (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific  Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 404), Bolun indicates  having attempted to informally resolve these issues before bringing these  motions, which the Court appreciates. (Tanji Decls., ¶¶ 4-5.)              Analysis  Bolun moves to compel responses to a set of Form Interrogatories  and Request for Production of Documents served on Plaintiff on January 16, 2024  and February 22, 2024. (Tanji Decls., ¶¶ 3, 4.) Despite having attempted to follow  up with Plaintiff regarding the responses on multiple occasions, Plaintiff  provided no responses. (Tanji Decls., ¶¶ 4-5.) The Court finds Bolun’s motions  to be well taken. Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Bolun’s motions.  With respect to monetary sanctions, the Court GRANTS the requests  in the reduced amount of $585.00 per motion, comprised of 1.5 hours preparing  the motions and appearing at the hearing on the motions, multiplied by the  hourly rate of $350.00, plus $60.00 for the filing fee.  CONCLUSION  The Court GRANTS Defendant Bolun Zhang’s motions to compel  responses to Form Interrogatories and Request for Production of Documents.  Plaintiff Weijun Zhang must provide verified, code-compliant responses, without  objection, and produce all responsive documents, to Bolun Zhang’s Form  Interrogatories and Request for Production of Documents within 20 days of the  Court’s order.  The Court GRANTS Defendant Bolun Zhang’s requests for monetary  sanctions in the reduced amount of $585.00 per motion, for a total of $1,170.00.  Plaintiff Weijun Zhang and Plaintiff’s counsel of record must pay the monetary  sanctions to Defendant Bolun Zhang’s counsel within 20 days of the Court’s  order.               Defendant Bolun Zhang is ordered to  give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.