 Case Number:  24STCV07932    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




immigrant rights defense
   council, llc

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
nargiza babadjanova

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


24STCV07932




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


October
   16, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendants’ demurrrer to complaint
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:              Defendants Nargiza Babadjanova and
Express Document Solutions   
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Immigrant Rights Defense Council, LLC
Demurrer to Complaint
The court
considered the moving and opposition papers filed in connection with this demurrer.  No reply papers were filed. 
DISCUSSION
Defendants Nargiza Babadjanova and Express Document Solutions
(“Defendants”) move the court for an order sustaining their demurrer to the
Complaint filed by plaintiff Immigrant Rights Defense Council, LLC
(“Plaintiff”).
The court overrules Defendants’ demurrer to the Complaint on the
ground that it is uncertain because the Complaint is not ambiguous or
unintelligible.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subd. (f).) 
The court overrules Defendants’ demurrer to the Complaint on the
ground that it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action because
(1) Plaintiff has alleged facts establishing that Defendants, in offering
immigration legal services as immigration consultants (Compl., ¶¶ 13, 15),
violated the Immigration Consultant Act by, inter alia, (i) failing to
obtain, during the time their business has existed, immigration consultant
bonds in violation of Business and Professions Code section 22443.3 (Compl., ¶
14), and (ii) holding themselves as professionals experienced in immigration
law and as attorneys despite not having obtained a law degree (Compl., ¶¶ 14,
16, subds. (c), (d)), and (2) Defendants have not shown, on the face of the
Complaint or matters of which the court has taken judicial notice, that
Defendants are “a subsidiary of [a] California licensed attorney,” such that they
cannot be held liable for each alleged violation of the Immigration Consultant
Act.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(e); Dem., p. 8:15-23; Bus. & Prof. Code, §§ 22446.5, subd. (b), 22441,
subd. (d) [“Every person engaged in the business or acting in the capacity of
an immigration consultant shall only offer nonlegal assistance or advice in an
immigration matter as defined in subdivision (a)”]; Tran v. Nguyen (2023)
97 Cal.App.5th 523, 528 [on demurrer, courts “do not consider factual
contentions not contained in the complaint, unless they are matters subject to
judicial notice”].) 
The court notes that, in their notice of demurrer, Defendants also
assert that the first cause of action does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action on the grounds that (1) Plaintiff does not have legal
capacity to sue, and (2) it is barred by the statute of limitations.  (Notice of Dem., pp. 2-3, ¶¶ 2-4.)  However, Defendants did not present argument
or authority establishing that the first cause of action fails on those
grounds, and therefore have not met their burden to show that it does not state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) 
ORDER
            The court overrules defendants
Nargiza Babadjanova and Express Document Solutions’s demurrer to plaintiff
Immigrant Rights Defense Council, LLC’s Complaint. 
            The court orders defendants Nargiza
Babadjanova and Express Document Solutions to file an answer to plaintiff
Immigrant Rights Defense Council, LLC’s Complaint no later than 10 days from
the date of this order.
 
            The court orders plaintiff Immigrant
Rights Defense Council, LLC to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  October 16, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court