  Case Number:  22TRCV00776    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  P Motion for Leave to File a Second Amended ComplaintMoving Party: Plaintiff Kaila GutierrezResponding Party: Defendants Juden Valdez et al.RULINGThe court considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply. The motion for leave to file a second amended complaint is DENIED without prejudice.PROCEDURAL BACKGROUNDOn September 1, 2022, Plaintiff Kaila Gutierrez (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Juden Valdez, M.D. (“Valdez”); UHS of Delaware, Inc. (“UHS”); and Del Amo Hospital, Inc. (“Del Amo”) (collectively, “Defendants”) alleging causes of action for (1) Medical Negligence/Malpractice and (2) Premises Liability: Failure to Protect from Criminal Acts of Third Parties.On November 14, 2022, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants, alleging the same causes of action.On December 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion. UHS and Del Amo filed an opposition on January 6, 2025. Valdez filed an opposition on January 7, 2025. Plaintiff filed a reply on January 13, 2025.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDOn June 12, 2021, Plaintiff was admitted as an inpatient resident at Del Amo Hospital for treatment related to a recent exacerbation of her pre-existing bipolar disorder, generalized anxiety, and ADHD. (FAC, ¶ 16.) Upon admission, Plaintiff’s mother notified Defendants of her high-risk behavior. (FAC, ¶ 17.) Specifically, Plaintiff’s mother warned Defendants that Plaintiff should not be allowed to sleep with boys in a mixed ward, use the male restroom, or have close contact with boys. (FAC, ¶ 17.)Despite these instructions, Defendants allowed Plaintiff to use the male restroom because, at the time, Plaintiff identified as a boy. (FAC, ¶ 18.) On June 16, 2021, Plaintiff was sexually assaulted by two minor boys in the male restroom. (FAC, ¶ 19.) Plaintiff’s mother was not notified until two days after the assault. (FAC, ¶ 21.) Further, Defendants failed to perform a rape kit or any other physical examination to protect Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶ 21.)Plaintiff alleges that Defendants failed to protect their patients from engaging in self-harming behavior. (FAC, ¶ 22.) Defendants also failed to uphold their own policies, which led to Plaintiff’s assault. (FAC, ¶ 19.)LEGAL STANDARDUnder Code of Civ. Proc. section 473, subd. (a)(1), “[t]he court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading.” Amendment may be allowed at any time before or after commencement of trial. (Code Civ. Proc., § 576.) “[T]he court’s discretion will usually be exercised liberally to permit amendment of the pleadings. The policy favoring amendment is so strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be justified.” (Howard v. County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428 (internal citations omitted).) “If the motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend . . .”  (Morgan v. Sup. Ct. (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) Prejudice includes “delay in trial, loss of critical evidence, or added costs of preparation.” (Solit v. Tokai Bank, Ltd. New York Branch (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.)A motion to amend a pleading before trial must include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a).) The motion must also state what allegations are proposed to be deleted or added, by page, paragraph, and line number. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a).) Finally, a separate supporting declaration specifying the effect of the amendment, why the amendment is necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered, and the reason the request for amendment was not made earlier must also accompany the motion. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.134(b).)DISCUSSIONMoving Party’s ArgumentDefendants’ discovery responses indicate that they engaged in conduct warranting the imposition of punitive damages. As Defendants will not be prejudiced, Plaintiff should be granted leave to file a SAC.Opposing Partys’ ArgumentValdez argues that Code Civ. Proc. section 425.13 statutorily bars Plaintiff from seeking punitive damages against him. Even if the amendment were not time-barred, Plaintiff has not shown a substantial probability that she will prevail on a claim for punitive damages.Del Amo and UHS contend that the motion is untimely, as trial is only two months away. Further, Plaintiff provides no explanation for why she delayed in bringing this motion, despite having access to the relevant discovery responses in July 2023 and July 2024.Reply ArgumentCode Civ. Proc. 425.13 does not apply to Plaintiff’s causes of action against UHS and Del Amo, and her motion is timely. Plaintiff has provided clear and convincing evidence to support her request for punitive damages, and courts are bound to a policy of great liberality in granting allowing amendments.Merits of the MotionPlaintiff seeks leave to amend her complaint to request punitive damages and add supporting factual allegations, based on discovery responses obtained in 2023. Defendants argue that allowing such an amendment would be prejudicial, as Plaintiff had this information for about seventeen months but waited until trial was only two months away to file this motion. Moreover, Plaintiff provides no explanation for the delay.While the court agrees that Plaintiff failed to provide an explanation for why the motion could not have been brought sooner, in violation of Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b), the court does not find that the delay is so prejudicial as to warrant denying the motion. With trial still two months away, the parties will have ample time to contest the amended pleading via dispositive motions.However, the court finds that Plaintiff’s motion is procedurally deficient, as Plaintiff did not identify the allegations to be added by page, paragraph, and line number. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a).) As Plaintiff seeks leave to add new factual allegations, Plaintiff must comply with all the requirements of rule 3.1324(a) and (b).As the motion is procedurally deficient, the court DENIES the motion without prejudice.CONCLUSIONBased on the foregoing, the motion for leave to file a second amended complaint is DENIED without prejudice.Prevailing party on motion is ordered to give notice of ruling.