 Case Number:  23TRCV03072    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  P MotionMoving Party: Plaintiffs Matthew Graham and Regan ColeResponding Party: Defendants Kerri Pomarolli and Richard PomarolliRULINGThe court considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply. The motion to set aside the order compelling arbitration is DENIED. Defendants’ motion for sanctions is DENIED.PROCEDURAL BACKGROUNDOn September 18, 2023, Plaintiffs Matthew Graham (“Graham”) and Regan Cole (“Cole”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Kerri Pomarolli (“Kerri”); Richard S. Pomarolli (“Richard”); Cory Jane Mishelevich-Birkett (“Mishelevich-Birkett”); Matilla Realty, Inc. (“Matilla”); and DOES 1-50, inclusive, alleging causes of action for (1) Fraud; (2) Constructive Fraud; (3) Negligent Misrepresentation; (4) Violation of Penal Code section 496; (5) Negligence; (6) Negligence per se; (7) Breach of Contract; and (8) Violation of Bus. and Prof. Code section 17200, et seq.On March 15, 2024, Kerri and Richard (collectively, “Defendants”) filed a petition to compel arbitration. The court granted the petition on July 9, 2024.On November 26, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the instant motion. On January 7, 2025, Defendants filed an opposition and a motion for sanctions. On January 9, 2025, Plaintiffs filed a reply.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDIn June 2022, Plaintiffs purchased a residential property from Defendants. (Complaint, ¶ 25.) Plaintiffs allege that Defendants fraudulently induced them into signing the purchase agreement by falsely representing that the home’s remodel was done properly and with the required permits. (Complaint, ¶¶ 27-34.)After Plaintiffs filed suit, Defendants filed a petition to compel arbitration, pursuant to page 14, Section 31 of the purchase agreement. (Pet. to Compel Arb., p. 1, lines 20-21.)LEGAL STANDARDWhile there is no single test for establishing waiver of the right to arbitrate, the relevant factors include: (1) whether the party’s actions are inconsistent with the right to arbitrate; (2) whether the litigation machinery has been substantially invoked and the parties were well into preparation of a lawsuit before the party notified the opposing party of an intent to arbitrate; (3) whether a party either requested arbitration enforcement close to the trial date or delayed for a long period before seeking a stay; (4) whether a defendant seeking arbitration filed a counterclaim without asking for a stay of the proceedings; (5) whether important intervening steps had taken place; and (6) whether the delay affected, misled, or prejudiced the opposing party. (Saint Agnes Medical Center v. PacifiCare of California (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1187, 1203.)DISCUSSIONMoving Party’s ArgumentDefendants have waived their right to arbitration by failing to identify an agreeable arbitrator.Opposing Party’s ArgumentPlaintiffs’ reliance on Code Civ. Proc. sections 128, subd. (a) and 187 is unfounded, as Code Civ. Proc. section 473, subd. (b) governs motions to set aside orders. Plaintiffs’ motion has no procedural basis and cannot be granted. Moreover, all of Plaintiffs’ arguments have already been rejected by the court.As Plaintiffs’ motion is clearly a meritless attempt to delay arbitration, Defendants seek sanctions.Reply ArgumentDefendants’ argument that this motion is merely a delay tactic is senseless and meritless. Further, this motion was necessitated by Defendants’ failure to participate in the arbitrator selection process.Merits of the Motion1. Plaintiffs’ Motion to Set Aside Order Compelling ArbitrationAs Defendants note, the court has already ruled that Defendants’ failure to appoint a mutually agreeable arbitrator does not constitute a waiver of the right to compel arbitration. Nor is the court persuaded that Code Civ. Proc. sections 128 and 187 give the court inherent authority to set aside a previous order.Accordingly, the court finds that order compelling arbitration still stands, and the parties are required to select an arbitrator pursuant to the terms of the arbitration agreement.The language of the arbitration agreement reads as follows:“The Parties agree that any dispute or claim in Law or equity arising between them out of this Agreement or any resulting transaction, which is not settled through mediation, shall be decided by neutral, binding arbitration. The Parties also agree to arbitrate any disputes or claims with Agent(s), who, in writing, agree to such arbitration prior to, or within a reasonable time after, the dispute or claim is presented to the Agent. The arbitration shall be conducted through any arbitration provider or service mutually agreed to by the Parties…”As the arbitration agreement is silent as to the arbitrator selection process, either party may petition the court to appoint an arbitrator, pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. section 1281.6: “If the arbitration agreement provides a method of appointing an arbitrator, that method shall be followed. If the arbitration agreement does not provide a method for appointing an arbitrator, the parties to the agreement who seek arbitration and against whom arbitration is sought may agree on a method of appointing an arbitrator and that method shall be followed. In the absence of an agreed method, or if the agreed method fails or for any reason cannot be followed, or when an arbitrator appointed fails to act and his or her successor has not been appointed, the court, on petition of a party to the arbitration agreement, shall appoint the arbitrator.”Thus, the court finds that this motion was not the proper procedure for resolving this dispute. If the parties are unable to agree upon an arbitrator, Plaintiffs may petition the court to appoint one.Accordingly, the court DENIES the motion to set aside the order compelling arbitration.2. Defendants’ Motion for SanctionsDefendants seek sanctions on the grounds that this motion was meritless and an attempt to relitigate resolved issues.While the court agrees that the motion raised arguments already considered, the court finds that sanctions are not appropriate at this time, as Defendants also contributed to the delay in arbitration proceedings by failing to engage in the arbitrator selection process.Accordingly, the court DENIES the motion for sanctions.CONCLUSIONBased on the foregoing, the court DENIES Plaintiffs’ motion to set aside the order compelling arbitration and DENIES Defendants’ motion for sanctions.Defendants ordered to give notice of ruling.