 Case Number:  23STUD11101    Hearing Date:   March 4, 2024    Dept:  71  
Superior
Court of California
County of
Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



THE WOMAN’S CLUB OF HOLLYWOOD,
  CALIFORNIA,
 
  
         vs.
 
SARA VAN HORN, et al.


 Case No.:  23STUD11101
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  March 4, 2024



 
Plaintiff The
Woman’s Club of Hollywood, California’s Counsel, Karen
A. Rooney’s, Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel is granted.
Plaintiff’s
motion to bifurcate trial is denied.
Defendants Sara
Van Horn’s and Patrick Van Horn’s motion to deem admitted Plaintiff The Woman’s
Club of Hollywood, California’s responses to their Request for Admission (Set
One) is granted.  Plaintiff’s responses
to Defendants’ Request for Admission (Set One) are deemed admitted.
Defendants’ request for monetary sanctions on the motion to deem
Requests for Admission Admitted is granted in the reduced amount of $1,000.00
against Plaintiff.  Sanctions are payable
within 20 days.
 
          Plaintiff The
Woman’s Club of Hollywood, California’s (“WCH”) (“Plaintiff”) Counsel, Karen
A. Rooney, moves to be relieved as counsel. 
(Motion Relieved, pg. 1.)
          Plaintiff moves to bifurcate trial and
for an order (i) determining applicability of the doctrine of equitable
estoppel, and (ii) making determinations on the legal issues raised in
defendants’ affirmative defenses. 
(Notice Bifurcate, pg. 2.)  Plaintiff’s
motion is based upon the following grounds: (i) the Court has indicated that it
will bifurcate and try any legal issues before empanelment of a jury; (ii) in
response to that offer, Plaintiff requests that the Court determine that the
doctrine of equitable estoppel precludes defendants from contesting that Plaintiff
had “no fault just cause” for its decisions to (a) withdraw of the residential
real property from the rental market and (b) comply with an order from
the
City of Los Angeles relating to habitability that necessitates vacating the
residential real property; and (iii) the Court should determine the defenses
asserted by Defendants as they involve legal determinations before any related
factual issues are tried by the jury including that Plaintiff is the owner of
the property, that the RSO does not apply, that the LA City Ordinance cited by Defendants
does not apply and that the earlier bankruptcy proceedings are irrelevant in
this action.  (Notice Bifurcate, pg. 2.)
Defendants Sara Van Horn (“Sara”) and Patrick Van Horn (“Patrick”)
(collectively, “Defendants”) move for an order deeming Defendants’ Request
for Admissions (Set One) (“RFA”) admitted. 
 (Notice of Motion, pgs. 1-2;
C.C.P. §2033.280(b).)  Defendants also request an award of sanctions
against Plaintiff in the amount of $5,585.25. 
(Notice of Motion, pg. 2; C.C.P. §2033.280(b).)
 
1.     Plaintiff’s Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel
On
August 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed its operative Complaint against Defendants Sara
Van Horn (“Sara”) and Patrick Van Horn (“Patrick”) (collectively,
“Defendants”).  On October 20, 2023, Defendants
filed their Answer.
On
February 5, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel, Karen A. Rooney, filed the instant Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel.
Trial
is not set in this matter. 
 
Legal Standard
California Rule of Court rule 3.1362 (Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel)
requires (1) notice of motion and motion to be directed to the client (made on
the Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-051));
(2) a declaration stating in general terms and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under
Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1) (made on the Declaration in Support of
Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-052)); (3) service
of the notice of motion and motion and declaration on all other parties who
have appeared in the case; and (4) the proposed order relieving counsel
(prepared on the Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as
Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)). 
The court has discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw, and such a
motion should be granted provided that there is no prejudice to the client, and
it does not disrupt the orderly process of justice.  (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21
Cal.App.4th 904, 915.)
 
Discussion
Counsel
has submitted completed MC-051, MC-052, and MC-053 forms.   Counsel has provided a declaration stating a
there is a breakdown of the attorney-client relationship.  (See Decl. of Rooney.)  Counsel has indicated that Plaintiff was
served with copies of the motion papers filed with the declaration at Plaintiff’s
last known address and confirmed within the past 30 days that the address is
current by exchanging email at Plaintiff’s last known address and by
conversation.
 
Conclusion
Plaintiff’s counsel’s Motion
to Be Relieved as Counsel is granted.
Counsel will be relieved upon
filing proof of service on their client of the Order Granting Attorney’s Motion
to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil (Judicial Council form MC-053).
Moving Party to give notice.
 
2.    
Plaintiff’s Motion to
Bifurcate
Plaintiff filed
the instant motion to bifurcate trial on January 29, 2024.  Defendants filed their opposition on February
15, 2024.  As of the date of this hearing
no reply has been filed.
 
Legal Standard
C.C.P.
§598 provides, in part,
 
The court may, when the
convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or the economy and efficiency of
handling the litigation would be promoted thereby, on motion of a party, after
notice and hearing, make an order, no later than the close of pretrial conference
in cases in which such pretrial conference is to be held, or, in other cases,
no later than 30 days before the trial date, that the trial of any issue or any
part thereof shall precede the trial of any other issue or any part thereof in
the case, except for special defenses which may be tried first pursuant to
Sections 597 and 597.5.  
 
(C.C.P.
§598.) 
 
Discussion
Plaintiff
failed to present compelling evidence that the economy and efficiency of
handling the litigation would be promoted by bifurcating trial.  Plaintiff’s motion reads as a motion in
limine.  Further, Plaintiff’s counsel has
been relieved from this matter and trial has been taken off calendar at the
current time.
  
Conclusion
Plaintiff’s
motion to bifurcate trial is denied without prejudice.
 
3.     Defendants’ Motion
to Deem Requests for Admission Admitted

Having reviewed Defendants’
Motion to Deem Requests for Admission Admitted, the Court rules as follows.
          On September 22, 2023, Defendants served RFA (Set One) on Plaintiff,
via electronic service.  Responses were
due October 2, 2023.  Defendants’ counsel
declares on September 29, 2023, Plaintiff served deficient, unverified
responses.  (Decl. of Holliday ¶3, Exh.
B.)  Defendants’ counsel declares she
spoke with Plaintiff’s counsel on October 4, 2023, when the parties discussed
the absence of a verification to all of Plaintiff’s discovery responses.  (Decl. of Holliday ¶6.)   Defendants’ counsel declares Plaintiff’s
counsel sent updated responses with a purported verification signed by Susan
Landay (“Landay”), but the “verification” did not contain the required language.
 (Decl. of Holliday ¶6.)   Defendants’ counsel declares Landay did not
attest that the information was within her personal knowledge or that the
statements were true and correct, and Landay did not disclose her relationship
to Plaintiff, claiming only to have been authorized to sign the self-styled
“verification” on its behalf.  (Decl. of
Holliday ¶6, Exh. D.)  Plaintiff has
failed to provide timely, verified responses. 
Defendants now move the Court to deem the requests for admission
admitted.  
          The Court grants the motion pursuant to C.C.P. §2033.280
and deems the requests to be admitted.
Defendants request monetary
sanctions totaling $5,585.25.  The Court
finds this request to be exceptionally high for an unopposed motion to deem
admitted requests for admission, and should not take 10.25 hours to prepare and
file.  Such a motion does not require a
separate statement (a motion to compel further responses requires a separate
statement), and counsel is not entitled to attorneys’ fees for time spent
meeting and conferring. 
          The Court awards sanctions pursuant to C.C.P. §2033.280(c) in
the amount of $, calculated as follows:
1.5 hours to prepare instant
motion + 0.5 hours to appear at hearing = 2 hours  
($500 per hour x 2 hours) =
$1,000.00
The sanctions are payable by
Plaintiff within 20 days of this order.
 
          Conclusion
Defendants’ motion to deem
admitted Plaintiff’s responses to their RFAs is granted.  Plaintiff’s responses to Defendant’s RFA (Set
One) are deemed admitted.
Defendants’ request for
monetary sanctions is granted in the reduced total amount of $1,000.00 against
Plaintiff.  Sanctions are payable within
20 days.
Moving Party is to
give notice of this ruling. 
 
Dated:  March
_____, 2024
                                                                             





  