  Case Number:  19STCV41281    Hearing Date:   March 4, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



JOSE ADAM
  PEREZ, et al.
  
         vs.
 
ERG CAPITAL,
  LLC, et al.


 Case No.:  19STCV41281
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  March 4, 2024



 
Petitioner April Lee Mijares’ petition to approve minor’s
compromise for Ebony Hazel Mijares is granted. 
The Court orders the funds invested in the selected single-premium
deferred annuity.  
Petitioner April Melissa Perez’s petition to approve minor’s
compromise for Ismirah Bella Chavarria Perez is granted.  The Court orders the funds invested in the
selected single-premium deferred annuity. 

Petitioner April Melissa Perez’s petition to approve minor’s
compromise for Jacob Rick Perez is granted. 
The Court orders the funds invested in the selected single-premium
deferred annuity. 
Petitioner April Melissa Perez’s petition to approve minor’s
compromise for Layla Marie Chavarria Perez is granted.  The Court orders the funds invested in the selected single-premium
deferred annuity.
 
The Court requires attendance at the hearing by the Petitioners to
grant the petition.  (CRC Rule 7.952.)
 
 
Petitioner April Lee Mijares (“A. Mijares”), on behalf of Claimant
Ebony Hazel Mijares (“Ebony”) petitions the Court to approve the minor’s
compromise in the settlement of the instant action.  
Petitioner April Melissa Perez (“A. Perez”), on behalf of Claimants
Ismirah Bella Chavarria Perez (“Ismirah”), Jacob Rick Perez (“Jacob”), and Layla
Marie Chavarria Perez (“Layla”) petitions the Court to approve minors’
compromises in the settlement of the instant action.
 
I.                  
Background
A. Mijares, individually and as guardian ad litem for Ebony
(collectively, “Mijares Claimants”); and A. Perez, individually and as guardian
ad litem for Ismirah, Jacob, and Layla (collectively, “Perez Claimants)
together with other named Plaintiffs (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed an
initial complaint against Defendants ERG Capital, LLC (“ERG”), Gregory T.
Royston (“Royston”), American State Properties Inc. (“ASP”), Forbix Ventures
LLC (“Forbix”), U.S. Bank Trust, N.A. as Trustee for LSF9 Master Participation
Trust (“USBT”), WRI Property Management CA (“WRI”), and Central Point LLC
(“Central Point”) (collectively, “Defendants”) on November 15, 2019.  Plaintiffs filed the operative first amended
complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants on April 28, 2021, for (1) violation of
Civil Code §1942.4, (2) tortious breach of the warranty of habitability, (3) private
nuisance, (4) Business & Professions Code §§17200 et seq., and (5) negligence
for issues at an apartment building located 5712 S.
Figueroa St. Los Angeles, CA 90037 (“Subject Property”), owned, managed and/or
controlled by Defendants, where Plaintiffs were tenants.  (See FAC.)  Pursuant
to the instant petitions, Defendants ERG, Royston, Ron Rozillio (“Rozillio”),
Forbix, USBT, WRI, and Central Point have agreed to pay Plaintiffs to settle
the claims.  (See Petitions ¶¶10b,
11, Attachments 10b, 11b(5).)  
A settlement was reached pursuant to which Defendants ERG, Royston, Ron Rozillio (“Rozillio”), Forbix, USBT, WRI, and
Central Point agreed to pay a total of $1,837,500.00.  (Petitions ¶10a, Attach.
10b.)  The four settling minor claimants
(Ebony, Ismirah, Jacob, and Layla) will receive a gross sum of $40,000.00 each,
and the four adult Plaintiffs will receive $215,791.25 each.  (Petitions ¶16(a);
Decl. of Castelblanco ¶¶9-10.)  The total
amount of attorney’s fees for which court approval is requested is $40,000 (or
$10,000 per minor), calculated as twenty-five percent of the minor claimants’
settlement total and is based on a contingency basis; expenses incurred over
the course of litigation will be borne by the adult Plaintiffs alone.  (See Petitions ¶¶13a, 16(c)-(d); Decl.
of Castelblanco ¶¶10, 12(c).) 
The net balance of proceeds for each minor claimant is $30,000.  (Petitions ¶¶15, 16(f).)  All procedural requirements have been met, as
Petitioners have completed a Judicial Council form MC-350 on behalf of each minor
claimant, signed by their respective Petitioner, as well as Form MC-351 on the
minor claimants’ behalf.  
 
II.               
Legal Standard
Compromises of disputed claims brought by minors are governed in
part by C.C.P. §372.  The statute allows
a guardian ad litem to appear in court on behalf of a minor claimant and gives
the guardian ad litem the power to compromise the minor’s claim “with the
approval of the court in which the action or proceeding is pending.”  A petition for court approval of a compromise
must be verified by the petitioner and must contain a full disclosure of all
information that has any bearing upon the reasonableness of the compromise or
covenant.  (CRC Rule 7.950.)  CRC Rule 7.952(a) requires the attendance of
the petitioner and claimant at the hearing on the compromise of the claim
unless the court for good causes dispenses with their personal appearance.
“Neither section 372 nor the California Rules of Court (rules
7.950 & 7.952) contemplates a noticed motion and adversary hearing when
court approval of a minor’s compromise is sought. Although we need not decide
the question, it would appear that a petition to approve or disapprove a
minor’s compromise may be decided by the superior court, ex parte, in
chambers.”  (Pearson v. Superior Court (2012) 202 Cal.App.4th 1333, 1337.)  
CRC Rule 7.955(a) requires the Court to use “a reasonable fee
standard” when approving and allowing the amount of attorneys’ fees payable
from money to be paid for the benefit of a person with a disability and
requires that the Court “give consideration to the terms of any representation
agreement made between the attorney and the representative of the minor . . .
and evaluate the agreement based on the facts and circumstances existing at the
time the agreement was made, except where the attorney and the representative
of the minor . . . contemplated that the attorney’s fee would be affected by
later events.”  
CRC Rule 7.955(b) sets forth fourteen nonexclusive factors the
Court may consider in determining a reasonable attorney’s fee.  CRC Rule 7.955(c) requires that a petition
requesting Court approval and allowance of an attorney’s fee under 7.955(a)
must include a declaration from the attorney that addresses the factors listed
in 7.955(b) that are applicable to the matter before the Court. 
 
III.            
 Analysis
Petitioners A. Mijares and A. Perez seek court approval for a
settlement under which minor claimants would each receive $30,000.00.  The amounts reflect payment amounts to each minor
claimant after deduction of attorneys’ fees representing 25% of each minor
claimant’s settlement.  (See Petitions
¶16(f).)  
This is a habitability suit, in which minor claimants lived in
uninhabitable conditions, including but not limited to living with faulty
plumbing, deteriorated walls and floors, poor maintenance, and infestations of cockroaches,
rats, and bed bugs, which caused injuries including insect bites, loss of
appetite, lack of sleep, and emotional distress.  (Petitions ¶¶5-6.)  The minor claimants have recovered completely
from these injuries with no permanent injuries. 
(Petitions ¶8.)  
Petitioners’ counsel, Eric E. Castelblanco, declares that the attorney
fees requested are based on a contingency basis if there was no recovery, there
would have been no attorney fee charge. 
(Decl. of Castelblanco ¶12(b).)  Chapman
declares all costs are being borne by the adult Plaintiffs.  (Decl. of Castelblanco ¶12(c).)  Castelblanco declares he represented this Plaintiffs’
group since on or about April 24, 2019, and throughout this case, the parties
engaged in extensive litigation, including inspections by government agencies;
subpoenas to government agencies and Defendants’ agents, including maintenance
and pest control persons; written discovery to all Plaintiffs and Defendants,
including form and special interrogatories, requests for admission and requests
for production of documents, depositions, including of Plaintiffs and
Defendants and their agents, hundreds of photographs and videos taken, and
investigation into Defendants’ business practices, as well as several motions
for summary judgment and adjudication.  (Decl.
of Castelblanco ¶12(d).)
Petitions include copies of agreements between Petitioners and
their counsel.  (Attachments 17(a)(2).)  Each agreement identifies the names of the
individuals who signed the submitted fee agreements on behalf of the minor
clients. As such, the submitted copies of the written attorney fee arrangement
agreements with minor claimants are sufficient and support the attorneys’ fees
request. 
Petitioners request this Court order the disposition of the minor
claimants’ balance of the settlements, in the amount of $30,000.00 per minor
claimant, be invested in a single-premium deferred annuity, subject to
withdrawal only on authorization of the Court. 
(Petitions ¶18(b)(3), Attachments 18(b)(3).)  Petitioners select the following structured
settlement annuity for the disposition of the minor claimants’ balances: Metropolitan
Tower Life Insurance Company.  (Petitions
at Attachs. 18(b)(3).)
Given the age of the minor claimants,
the Court will only require attendance at the hearing by the Petitioners to
grant the petition.  (CRC Rule 7.952.)

 
IV.           
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the petitions to approve the minors’
compromise are granted.  The Court orders
the funds invested in the selected single-premium deferred annuities.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
Dated:  March ____, 2024
                                                                             





  