 Case Number:  21STCP03351    Hearing Date:   March 4, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



JESSE RIOS, et al.,
 
  
         vs.
 
LIBERTY MUTUAL INSURANCE. 


 Case No.: 
  21STCP03351
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  March 4, 2024



 
Petitioner Jesse
Rios’ unopposed motion to quash Respondent Liberty Mutual Insurance’s
deposition subpoena and subpoena for business records issued to UCLA Physicians
Building Office/Health Information Team’s and UCLA Health Systems Radiology’s
custodians of record is granted.  
Petitioner’s
request for attorneys’ fees incurred in connection with its motion is granted
in the reduced amount of $2,010.00. 
Sanctions are payable by Respondent and its counsel of record within 20
days.
 
Petitioner Jesse Rios (“Rios”) (“Petitioner”) moves unopposed
to quash Respondent Liberty Mutual Fire Insurance Company’s (“Liberty Mutual”)
(“Respondent”) deposition subpoena for business records issued to UCLA
Physicians Building Office/Health Information Team’s and UCLA Health Systems
Radiology’s custodians of record with a production date set on October 30, 2023.  (Notice Motion, pg. 2.)[1]  Petitioner requests monetary sanctions
against Respondent and its counsel of record in the amount of $5,540.00.  (Notice Motion, pg. 2; C.C.P. §1987.1.)  
 
Background
On October 2, 2023, Respondent
issued Deposition Subpoenas for Production of Business Records to UCLA
Physicians Billing Office/Health Information Team’s and UCLA Health
Systems/Radiology’s custodians of record.  (Decl. of Kashani ¶2, Exh. A.)  The subpoenas seek all documents related to Petitioner
from January 22, 2011, to present pertaining to treatment of Petitioner’s head,
neck, back, left shoulder, left ankle, and knee only.  (Decl. of Kashani ¶2, Exh. A.)  The
date for production of the documents requested by the subpoenas is October 30,
2023.  (Decl. of Kashani ¶2, Exh. A.)     
Petitioner filed the instant
motion on October 26, 2023.  As of the
date of this hearing Respondent has not filed an opposition.
 
          Motion to Quash
C.C.P. §1987.1 provides, in part:
If a subpoena
requires . . . the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things before a court, . . . the court, upon motion
reasonably made by [a party], or upon the court’s own motion after giving
counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the
subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon such terms
or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders. In
addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect
the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable
violations of the right of privacy of the person. 
 
(C.C.P. §1987.1.)
California has numerous provisions recognizing medical
record privacy beginning with the California Constitution, Article I, Section
I, which states: “All people are by nature free and independent and have
inalienable rights. Among these are enjoying and defending life and liberty, .
. . and privacy.”  (Cal. Const. art I,
§1.)  Importantly, “California accords
privacy the constitutional status of an [‘]inalienable right,[‘] on a par with
defending life and possessing property.”  (Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43
Cal. 3d 833, 841.)  There are also
numerous specific enactments, such as the Confidentiality of Medical
Information Act (Civ. Code §56.10), the physician-patient privilege (Evid. Code
§§990, et seq.), and the psychotherapist-patient privilege (Evid. Code §§1010
et seq.) that apply.
While it is true that there is a party litigant exception
to the general provisions of medical record’s privacy, this exception does not
open the entirety of an individual’s medical history to exploration.  (Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d
844, 864 [“[P]laintiffs are ‘not obligated to sacrifice all privacy to seek
redress for a specific physical, mental or emotional injury’; while they may
not withhold information which relates to any physical or mental condition which
they have put in issue by bringing this lawsuit, they are entitled to retain
the confidentiality of all unrelated medical or psychotherapeutic treatment
they may have undergone in the past.”].) 
Here, the subpoena requires the production of Petitioner’s
medical records that extend beyond Petitioner’s deposition response regarding
body parts injured in the accident.  (Motion, pg. 2.)  Petitioner argues his deposition response
stated that the only body parts at issue are his head, neck, lower back, middle
of shoulder blades area, right ankle, and left knee.  (Motion,
pg. 2.)  The subpoenas seek information
about Petitioner’s head, neck, back, left shoulder, left ankle,
and knee.  Respondent’s subpoena
requests seek information that are not tailored to seek information directly
relevant to the claims at issue.  (Tylo v. Superior Court (1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 1379, 1390-1391.)   Therefore, the Court finds it appropriate to
modify Respondent’s subpoena to request information only pertaining to Petitioner’s
head, neck, lower back, middle of shoulder blades area, right
ankle, and left knee.
          Accordingly,
Petitioner’s motion to quash Respondent’s Deposition Subpoenas for Production of Business Records to UCLA
Physicians Billing Office/Health Information Team’s and UCLA Health
Systems/Radiology’s custodians of record is granted as modified to only pertain
to records relating to Petitioner’s head, neck, lower back, middle
of shoulder blades area, right ankle, and left knee.
 
          Sanctions
C.C.P. §1987.1 provides, in part:
[T]he court may in its discretion award the
amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion,
including reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was made or
opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more
of the requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.
 
(C.C.P. § 1987.2(a).)
Petitioner requests sanctions in
the amount of $5,440.00, constituting the reasonable attorney’s fees incurred
in connection with this motion.  (Decl.
of Kashani ¶¶4-6.)  Petitioner’s counsel
declares his hourly rate is $650.00 and he incurred 3 hours drafting the moving
papers, as well as 4 hours reviewing any opposition and preparing a reply, and
additional hour to appear and argue the motion, as well as $30.00 for copying
costs, the $60.00 filing fee, and two charges of $75.00 for messenger fees.  (Decl. of Kashani ¶6.)  Petitioner’s motion is unopposed, which
nullifies Petitioner’s request for anticipated fees and anticipated costs.  Therefore, the Court calculates Petitioner’s
counsel’s reasonable fees incurred on the instant motion as follows: ($650.00 x
3 hours + $60 filing fee = $2,010.00.)
Accordingly, the Court grants Petitioner’s
request for reasonable fees in the reduced amount of $2,010.00, payable by
Respondent and its counsel of record within 20 days.
 
Conclusion
Petitioner’s unopposed
motion to quash Respondent’s Deposition Subpoena for Production of
Business Records to UCLA Physicians Billing Office/Health Information Team’s
and UCLA Health Systems/Radiology’s custodians of record is granted as modified
to only pertain to records relating to Petitioner’s head, neck, lower
back, middle of shoulder blades area, right ankle, and left
knee.
Petitioner’s request for
sanctions against Respondent and its counsel of record is granted in the
reduced amount of $2,010.00.  Sanctions are payable within 20 days.
Moving Party to give
notice.
 
Dated:  March _____, 2024
                                                                             





  