 Case Number:  23VECV04484    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV04484 Lehman v Woodpark
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendants Woodpark LLC and Micro Property
Management Inc.’s Demurrer to the Complaint is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO
AMEND.  Leave to amend is not to add new
causes of action or new parties.
Introduction 
Defendants Woodpark LLC
(Woodpark) and Micro Property Management Inc. (MPM) (collectively, Defendants)
demurred to Plaintiff Cyman Lehman’s (Plaintiff) Complaint.  The demurrer placed into issue the first
cause of action (COA) for discrimination (age/disability); the second COA for
negligence, the third COA for elder abuse, the fourth COA for breach of
contract, the fifth COA for breach of warranty of habitability, and the sixth
COA for Civil Code section 1942.5(a) violation. 

Discussion 
Defendants argued that the second
COA for negligence, the fourth COA for breach of contract, and the fifth COA
for breach of warranty failed to attach a contract or allege the terms of the
contract or allege the breach.  However,
these arguments are improper as to the negligence COA and the breach of
warranty COA because the two COAs are not contract-based.  Negligence is a tort and breach of warranty
is sufficiently grounded on the expressly alleged landlord-tenant
relationship.  The demurrer argument regarding
the lack of an attached contract against the negligence and breach of warranty
COAs is not persuasive.
The “lack of an attached
contract” argument as to breach of contract is also not persuasive because the
breach of contract COA can be alleged by stating the legal effect of the
contract, rather than attaching a copy of the contract or alleging the relevant
terms verbatim.  Plaintiff expressly
alleged that she was obligated to pay rent and Defendants were obligated to
maintain the property and comply with “building, fire, health, and safety
codes, ordinances, regulations, and other laws”.  (Compl. pars. 55-56.)  Because Plaintiff pled the legal effect of
the contract, the breach of contract COA is sufficiently alleged with
supportive facts to plead the terms being placed into issue.  The demurrer argument against the breach of
contract COA is not persuasive.
Defendants argued that there are
insufficient facts pled to support the element of duty in the negligence
COA.  However, Plaintiff alleged that
Woodpark is the owner of the property and alleged that MGM is the property
manager.  On these facts alone, there are
grounds to plead a tort duty against both Defendants.  The argument as to duty is unpersuasive.
As to the element of Defendants’
breach under the breach of contract, negligence, and breach of warranty COAs,
Plaintiff alleged that Defendants’ breach was their failure to maintain an
operable elevator (Compl. pars. 12-14, 16-19, 33-34, 57, and 62) and/or some
type of dangerous condition in the parking garage where she fell (Compl. par.
15).  However, the allegations are
insufficient to plead supportive facts to show how a fall in the parking garage
is tied to an inoperable elevator. 
Plaintiff experienced a fall injury in Defendants’ garage on December 5,
2022 and stayed in the hospital through April 8, 2022.  (Compl. par. 15.)  [The Court presumed for this demurrer that
the date of the alleged fall contains a typographical error and Plaintiff meant
to allege that the fall occurred on December 5, 2021.]  The elevator was allegedly inoperable from
October 9, 2021 through October 29, 2021 (Compl. par. 13); from October 30,
2021 through November 17, 2021 (Compl. par. 14); from March 28, 2022 through
April 10, 2022 (Compl. par. 16); and from July 20, 2023 through August 18, 2023
(Compl. par. 19).  The facts alleged show
that the elevator was operable on the date of Plaintiff’s December 5, 2021 fall
in the garage and then inoperable between April 8, 2022 and April 10, 2022 when
she returned from the hospital. 
Plaintiff alleged that her mobility was limited by a cane, however, the
Complaint is uncertain as to how she was further injured in having to climb
four flights of stairs with a cane.  The
Court is sympathetic to Plaintiff’s hardship in having to climb four flights of
stairs with a cane but the pleading is lacking in supportive factual
allegations as to a breach and any link between the inoperable elevator and her
fall injury.
Further, Plaintiff failed to
allege facts to plead what caused her fall in the parking garage.  There is insufficient fact pleading as to the
dangerous condition alleged to be in the garage.  
For these pleading defects, the
demurrer to the second, fourth, and fifth COAs is SUSTAINED.  
Defendants argued that the first
COA for violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act, the third COA for Financial
Elder Abuse, and the sixth COA for violation of Civil Code section 1942.5(a)
are insufficiently pled.  Defendants
argued that there are no facts to plead any discriminatory conduct; no facts to
plead that Plaintiff was defrauded or Defendants’ wrongful use of Plaintiff’s
property (Welf. & Inst. Code, sec. 15610.30(a)); and no facts to plead any
protected activity or retaliatory conduct (Civ. Code, sec. 1942.5(a)(1)-(5)).
As to the civil rights violation,
Plaintiff alleged that Defendants discriminated against her based upon her age
and disability by failing to properly repair and maintain the elevator.  (Compl. par. 27.)  However, the factual allegations related to
the failure to repair and maintain the elevator, without more facts, is
insufficient to plead any discriminatory conduct.  The allegations regarding the elevator are
not pled to be specific misconduct levied against Plaintiff or related to her
age or disability.  The generalized claim
of Defendants’ failures related to the elevator are not seen as discriminatory
conduct.  There are insufficient facts
alleged to link the inoperable elevator to the fact that Plaintiff is elderly
or disabled.  The demurrer to the first
COA is persuasive.
As to financial elder abuse,
Plaintiff must plead facts to allege a taking, secreting, appropriating,
obtaining, or retaining of her property for a wrongful use or with an intent to
defraud.  Plaintiff argued that the
Complaint is sufficiently alleged and asserted that Defendants wrongfully
demanded and retained rent payments. 
(Compl. pars. 45, 46, and 49.) 
“Wrongful use” requires the pleading of two elements: (1) a breach of
contract or some other misconduct; and (2) Defendants’ actual or implied
knowledge that the conduct is likely to be harmful to the elder.  (Paslay v. State Farm General Insurance Co.
(2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 639, 657.) 
Plaintiff sufficiently alleged the breach or misconduct based upon the
alleged refusal/failure to repair the elevator. 
However, Plaintiff failed to allege facts to plead that Defendants’ knew
or should have known of Plaintiff’s harm (i.e., difficulties in not being able
to use the elevator).  For the failure to
allege facts to plead wrongful use, Defendants’ demurrer is persuasive.
To the extent that Plaintiff
relies upon the pleading element of fraud, there are no factual allegations to
plead any fraud or any representation related to the refusal/failure to repair
the elevator.  Defendants’ demurrer is
persuasive on the argument that Plaintiff failed to plead sufficient facts to
support the element of an “intent to defraud”. 
Specific to the sixth COA for
retaliation, Plaintiff alleged that her rent increased when she “arrived”.  The Court inferred that the rent increase
occurred when she “arrived” from the hospital on April 10, 2022.  (Compl. pars. 16-18.)  Plaintiff then alleged that she filed a
complaint with the Los Angeles Health Department on August 23, 2023.  (Compl. par. 20.)  The allegations are insufficient to plead
statutory retaliation because the alleged retaliatory conduct (i.e., rent
increase) allegedly occurred prior to the alleged protected activity (i.e., the
complaint to the Health Department).  The
statute prohibits the retaliatory conduct to occur from 180 days of the
protected activity.  Because Plaintiff’s
allegations failed to plead facts showing any retaliatory conduct occurring
within 180 days of any protected activity, the allegations to support the sixth
COA for retaliation are insufficiently pled.
The demurrer to the first, third,
and sixth COAs is SUSTAINED.
The Court noted that Plaintiff’s
request for leave to amend is conclusory and Plaintiff failed to present any
facts to show how the pleading defects could be cured.  However, this is the Court’s first review of
the pleading.  On the policy of resolving
disputes on the merits, the Court grants Plaintiff’s conclusory request for
leave to amend.
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.