 Case Number:  22VECV00123    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  T 22VECV00123 Watson v The Reo Group
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Professional Business Management Corporation’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay the Action is DENIED.
The Court, sua sponte, STRIKES the granting of Defendant Professional Business Management Corporation’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay the Action entered on August 2, 2024. 
Introduction
Defendant Professional Business Management Corporation (Defendant) moved to compel arbitration and stay Plaintiff Gina Watson’s (Plaintiff) action. 
Procedure
The instant motion was filed on July 15, 2024, and originally set to be heard on August 27, 2024.  The opposition was filed on August 14, 2024, the reply was filed on August 20, 2024.
Prior to the matter being fully briefed and prior to the originally set August 27, 2024, hearing date, the Court erroneously granted Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration and stay the action on August 2, 2024.  Upon the Court’s own reconsideration of the August 2, 2024, ruling, the Court, sua sponte, strikes the August 2, 2024, granting of Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration and stay the action.
The Court now considers the motion, opposition, and reply of the parties.
Discussion
On a motion to compel arbitration, the burden of proof is with the moving party to show, by a preponderance of the evidence, that an arbitration g agreement exists and that the dispute is covered by the agreement.  (Cruise v. Kroger Co. (20150) 233 Cal.App.4th 390, 397-397.)  It is undisputed that the contract at issue containing the arbitration agreement was between Plaintiff and Co-Defendant Serve All, Help All, Inc. dba Nonprofit Alliance of Consumer Advocates (NACA).  (Purandar Amin Decl. par. 3, Exh. 1.)  The express provisions of the contract show that Defendant is not identified as a contracting party.  Defendant argued that they are alleged to be the successor, agent, or alter ego of NACA as alleged by Plaintiff in the Second Amended Complaint (SAC).  However, the SAC is not verified and is not considered admissible evidence.  Defendant further submitted two declarations from Purandar Amin, Chief Executive Officer of NACA, and Sindey Avalos, Defendant’s Corporate Secretary.  Neither of the two declarations present any facts to show that Defendant is a successor, agent, or alter ego of NACA.  Because Defendant failed to present any facts to show how they are related to NACA, Defendant failed to meet their initial burden to show the existence of an arbitration agreement with Plaintiff and/or how Defendant is covered under the NACA-Plaintiff arbitration agreement.  Defendant failed to meet their initial burden of proof.
The motion to compel arbitration and stay the action is DENIED. 
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.
 