 Case Number:  23STCV24236    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     April 16, 2024                        TRIAL DATE:  Not
set
                                                           
CASE:                         Emaza Gibson v. Jason Derulo, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV24236
 





















 
MOTION
TO DISMISS PURSUANT TO CODE CIV. PROC. § 410.30
 
 DEFENDNANTS JASON DERULO AND ATLANTIC RECORDING
CORPORATION’S DEMURRER WITHOUT MOTION TO STRIKE
 
DEFENDANT
FRANK HARRIS’S DEMURRER WITHOUT MOTION TO STRIKE



 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
Plaintiff Emaza Gibson (“Plaintiff” or “Gibson”) is an artist.
 Defendant Jason Derulo (“Derulo”) is a
musical artist signed with major record label Atlantic Recording Corporation
(“Atlantic”).  Derulo also owns the
record label Future History, Inc. (“Future History”).  In or around August of 2021, Derulo contacted
Gibson about an opportunity to become a successful musician.  Thereafter, Gibson entered into agreements
with Derulo, Atlantic, and Future History for the purpose of creating a mixtape
and an album.  Gibson was also to create
a single record featuring Derulo.  
 
In or around September of 2021, Gibson began working with
Derulo to create her album under the Future History label.  Throughout the working relationship, Derulo
was difficult to communicate with, made unwanted sexual advances towards Gibson,
and treated her with hostility.  After an
incident where Derulo aggressively approacted Plaintiff and berated her for
arriving late to a recording session, Gibson’s mother and manager, Sandra Bales
(“Bales”) contacted Derulo’s manager, Frank Harris (“Harris”) about the
incident.  Harris acknowledged the
incident and said there was nothing to do.  Gibson also contacted Atlantic Executive Vice
President Anton Ben-Horin (“Ben-Horin”) to discuss the hostility she felt from
Derulo and difficulties communicating with Derulo.  Ben-Horn acknowledged Derulo’s behavior but
ultimately did nothing to address Gibson’s concerns.  On September 6, 2022, Atlantic and Future
History terminated the agreement with Gibson. 
This lawsuit followed.
 
Procedural Background
Gibson filed a Complaint on October 5, 2023.  Derulo and Atlantic filed a demurrer to the
Complaint.  Harris also filed a demurrer
to the Complaint.
 
On February 1, 2024, before the deadline to file oppositions
to the demurrer, Gibson timely filed the First Amended Complaint (FAC) against Derulo,
Future History, Atlantic, and Harris.[1]  The FAC alleges the following causes of
action: 
 
1.     
Quid Pro Quo Sexual Harassment
2.     
Failure to Prevent and/or Remedy
Harassment 
3.     
Retaliation in Violation of FEHA
4.     
Sexual Harassment in Violation of
the Unruh Civil Rights Act 
5.     
Intimidation and Violence in Violation
of the Ralph Civil Rights Act
6.     
Breach of Contract
7.     
Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith
and Fair Dealing
8.     
Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress
9.     
Negligent Infliction of Emotional
Distress
 
On March 4, 2024, Harris filed a demurrer to the FAC
(“Harris Demurrer”).
 
On March 8, 2024, Derulo and Atlantic filed a demurrer to
the FAC (“Derulo Demurrer”).
 
On March 15, 2024, Derulo and Atlantic filed a Motion to
Dismiss Pursuant to the Code Civ. Proc. § 410.30.  
 
Plaintiff timely filed oppositions to the Harris Demurrer,
Derulo Demurrer, and Motion to Dismiss. 
 
Defendants timely filed replies.
 
The Court begins by addressing the Motion to Dismiss.
 
II.        MOTION TO DISMISS
 
A.   
Legal
Standard
 
When a court upon motion of a party or its own motion finds
that in the interest of substantial justice an action should be heard in a
forum outside this state, the court must stay or dismiss the action in whole or
in part on any conditions that may be just. (Code Civ. Proc., § 410.30, subd.
(a).)  This principle is the codification
of the firmly established forum non conveniens doctrine, which simply
provides that a court may resist imposition upon its jurisdiction even when
jurisdiction is authorized by the letter of a general venue statute.  (Great Northern R. Co. v Superior Court
(1970) 12 Cal.App.3d 105, 108-110.)  The doctrine allows the court to
decline to exercise the jurisdiction it has over a transitory cause of action
when it believes that the action may be more appropriately and justly tried
elsewhere.  (Stangvik v. Shiley, Inc.
(1991) 54 Cal.3d 744, 751.) 
 
A defendant may enforce a forum selection clause by bringing
a motion pursuant to California’s forum non conveniens statutes, because
these statutes “are the ones which generally authorize a trial court to decline
jurisdiction when unreasonably invoked and provide a procedure for the motion.”
 (Global Financial Distributors Inc.
v. Superior Court (2019) 35 Cal.App.5th 179, 186.)  A motion to dismiss for forum non
conveniens “based on a forum selection clause is a special type of forum
non conveniens motion.  The factors
that apply generally to a forum non conveniens motion do not control in
a case involving a mandatory forum selection clause.”  (Berg v. MTC Electronics Technologies Co. (1998)
61 Cal.App.4th 349, 358.) 
 
On a motion to dismiss for forum non conveniens
pursuant to a mandatory forum selection clause, the only issues for the court’s
consideration are (1) whether the forum selection clause is indeed mandatory,
as opposed to permissive; (2) whether the forum selection clause covers the
claims in the case; and (3) whether the forum selection clause is
“unreasonable.”  (See Berg, supra, 61
Cal.App.4th at pp. 358-359.) 
 
            b.  Judicial Notice
 
            Derulo and
Atlantic seek judicial of the following exhibits:
 
1.     
Portions of the Artist Agreement
between Plaintiff and Future History, Inc.
2.     
Portions of the Short Form Agreement
between Future History and Atlantic Recording Corporation.
3.     
Portions of the Recording and Other
Rights Agreement, which was attached as exhibit A to the Short Form Agreement.
4.     
Portions of the Artist Inducement
Agreement which was attached as Exhibit B to the Short Form Agreement.
 
The
unopposed request is GRANTED.[2]  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (h).)
 
c.  Application
 
            Derulo and
Atlantic (hereafter, “Moving Defendants”) move to dismiss Gibson’s case for forum
non conveniens.  The motion is
brought to enforce a New York forum selection clause in various agreements entered
into on February 15, 2022 between Gibson, Future History, and Atlantic.  The agreements are comprised of (1) an Artist
Agreement between Gibson and Future History; (2) the Short Form Agreement
between Future History and Atlantic; (3) Recording and Other Rights Agreement,
which was attached as exhibit A to the Short Form Agreement; and (4) the Artist
Inducement Agreement (“Induce Agreement”), attached as exhibit B to the Short
Form Agreement (collectively, the “Agreements”).  The Artist Agreement and Inducement Agreement each
provide that they are governed by New York law, and that the federal or state
courts located in New York County have sole jurisdiction of any action related
to the Agreements.  Gibson signed both
agreements with the forum selection clause. 
The Artist Agreement also provides that Gibson had the opportunity to
consult with independent consult.  The
motion is brought under Code of Civil Procedure section 410.30.[3]
 
When a court upon motion of a party or its own motion finds
that in the interest of substantial justice an action should be heard in a
forum outside this state, the court must stay or dismiss the action in whole or
in part on any conditions that may be just.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 410.30, subd. (a).)  
 
A defendant may enforce a forum selection clause by bringing
a motion pursuant to California’s forum non conveniens statutes, because
these statutes “are the ones which generally authorize a trial court to decline
jurisdiction when unreasonably invoked and provide a procedure for the motion.”
 (Global Financial Distributors Inc.
v. Superior Court (2019) 35 Cal.App.5th 179, 186.)  A motion to dismiss for forum non
conveniens “based on a forum selection clause is a special type of forum
non conveniens motion.  The factors
that apply generally to a forum non conveniens motion do not control in
a case involving a mandatory forum selection clause.”  (Berg v. MTC Electronics Technologies Co. (1998)
61 Cal.App.4th 349, 358.) 
 
On a motion to dismiss for forum non conveniens
pursuant to a mandatory forum selection clause, the only issues for the court’s
consideration are (1) whether the forum selection clause is indeed mandatory,
as opposed to permissive; (2) whether the forum selection clause covers the
claims in the case; and (3) whether the forum selection clause is
“unreasonable.”  (See Berg, supra, 61
Cal.App.4th at pp. 358-359.) 
 
            Whether
the forum selection clause is mandatory
 
            A forum
selection clause is mandatory if it “contains express language of exclusivity
of jurisdiction” or otherwise “specif[ies] a mandatory location for
litigation.”  (Olinick v. BMG
Entertainment (2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 1286, 1294 (the following clause was
mandatory: “[t]he parties agree to the exclusive jurisdiction and venue of the
Supreme Court of the State of New York for New York County and/or the United
States District Court for the Southern District of New York for the resolution
of all disputes arising under th[e] Agreement” was mandatory).)  Here, the forum selection clause states: 
 
THIS
AGREEMENT SHALL BE DEEMED TO HAVE BEEN MADE IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK AND THE
VALIDITY, CONSTRUCTION, PERFORMANCE AND BREACH OF THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE
GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO AGREEMENTS MADE AND
TO BE WHOLLY PERFORMED THEREIN. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO AGREES TO WAIVE ITS
RESPECTIVE RIGHTS TO A JURY TRIAL IN CONNECTIO [sic] WITH ANY MATTER RELATED TO
THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY. EACH PARTY HERETO
FURTHER REPRESENTS AND WARRANTS THAT IT HAS REVIEWED THIS WAIVER WITH ITS LEGAL
COUNSEL AND THAT IT KNOWINGLY AND VOLUNTARILY WAIVES ITS JURY TRIAL RIGHTS
FOLLOWING CONSULTATION WITH LEGAL COUNSEL. Artist agree [sic] to submit itself
to the sole and exclusive jurisdiction of the federal or state courts located
in New York County in any action related to this agreement.
 
(Derulo
Decl., Ex. 2, pp. 6-7, emphasis in original.)
            
The court finds that the Agreements contain a mandatory forum
clause.  As in Olinick, the clause
provides that the artist (here, Gibson) agrees to submit “to the sole and
exclusive jurisdiction of the federal or state courts located in New York
County in any action related to this agreement.”  This express language is clear and unequivocal.
Gibson does not offer any argument to the contrary.
 
            Whether
the forum selection clause covers the claims in the case 
 
            Plaintiff alleges
tort causes of action and breaches of the Agreements.  Moving Defendants argue the forum selection
clause applies to all the claims because Plaintiff’s breach of contract cause of
action incorporates by reference all of her tort allegations.  Moreover, the mandatory forum selection
clause applies to “any action related to” the agreement.  
 
            The court
agrees with Moving Defendants.  The
language of the mandatory forum selection clause is broad.  And, as alleged, each of Plaintiff’s causes
of action, including Derulo’s sexual harassment and mistreatment conduct, arise
from trying to perform under the Agreements. 
(See Complaint, ¶¶ 17-35.) 
Plaintiff argues her sexual harassment claims do not depend on any term
in the Agreements.  Plaintiff may be
correct that the Agreements do not expressly cover sexual harassment
claims.  However, given the broad
language in the forum selection clause, and further, that Plaintiff’s
allegations are inextricably linked to her attempted performance of the Agreements,
the forum selection clause applies to all Plaintiff’s claims. 
 
Whether the forum selection clause is unfair or
unreasonable  
 
            “When a
case involves a mandatory forum selection clause, it will usually be given
effect unless it is unfair or unreasonable.  Moreover, a court will normally reject any
claims that the chosen forum is unfair or inconvenient.  Also, a court will usually honor a mandatory
forum selection clause without extensive analysis of factors relating to
convenience.”  (Richtek USA, Inc. v. uPI
Semiconductor Corp. (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 651, 661 (cleaned up).)  “[T]he party opposing the enforcement of a
forum-selection clause (generally the plaintiff) bears the burden of proof.”  (Cal-State Bus. Prod. & Servs., Inc.
v. Ricoh (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 1666, 1680.) 
“That burden, however, is reversed when the claims at issue are based on
unwaivable rights created by California statutes.  In that situation, the party seeking to
enforce the forum selection clause bears the burden to show litigating the claims
in the contractually-designated forum “will not diminish in any way the
substantive rights afforded ... under California law.” (Verdugo v.
Alliantgroup, L.P. (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 141, 147–48.)  “FEHA rights are unwaivable.”  (Armendariz v. Found. Health Psychcare
Servs., Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 112.)
 
            Here, Gibson
does not explicitly contest the forum selection clause as unfair or
unreasonable.  Nevertheless, the court will
review two arguments from Gibson’s opposition that bear upon the fairness or
reasonableness inquiry.
 
            First,
Gibson argues Labor Code section 925 voids the forum selection clause.   Labor
Code section 925 states: 
 
“An
employer shall not require an employee who primarily resides and works in
California, as a condition of employment, to agree to a provision that would do
either of the following:
(1) Require
the employee to adjudicate outside of California a claim arising in California.
(2) Deprive
the employee of the substantive protection of California law with respect to a
controversy arising in California.
 
            Plaintiff
argues there is no dispute the alleged conduct occurred in California, and
further that she and the two individual defendants are residents of California.
 However, Plaintiff ignores the threshold
issue: whether Plaintiff and Defendants entered into an employment
contract.  Plaintiff argues the
Agreements are not employment contracts. 
Plaintiff argues the Moving Defendants seek to re-write the Agreements
to include California employment rights.  Plaintiff argues, “None of the
alleged contracts the moving parties rely on contemplate employment claims.”
 (See Opp., pp. 3-4.) If
as the Plaintiff argues, the Agreements do not create an employer-employee
relationship, then Labor Code section 925 does not apply.
 
            Second,
Gibson argues the FEHA forum selection provision controls.  FEHA allows a plaintiff to file a lawsuit “in
any county in the state in which the unlawful practice is alleged to have been
committed, in the county in which the records relevant to the practice are
maintained and administered, or in the county in which the aggrieved person
would have worked … but for the alleged unlawful practice.”  (Gov. Code, § 12965, subd. (a)(4).)  However, FEHA applies to employment
practices.  (See Gov. Code, § 12940,
subd. (a).)  As discussed above,
Plaintiff argues and concedes there was no employment Agreement.  Plaintiff’s argument fails for the simple
reason that she fails to establish an employment relationship existed between the
parties.  FEHA therefore does not
apply.  Further, for this reason, the
burden does not reverse to Moving Defendants. 
Plaintiff cannot (and does not) argue that the enforcement of the forum
selection clause would result in the diminution of her unwaivable FEHA rights
when she has not established the requisite basis for a FEHA claim.
 
            d. Conclusion
 
            The Motion
to Dismiss is GRANTED.  The First Amended
Complaint is DISMISSED as to Defendants Jason Derulo and Atlantic Recording
Corporation.  
 
            Moving
party to give notice. 
 
III.       DERULO & ATLANTIC’S DEMURRERS
 
On January 26, 2024, Derulo and Atlantic filed a demurrer to
the Complaint.  Gibson thereafter filed
the FAC on February 1, 2024.  Therefore,
the January 6, 2024 demurrer is moot.
 
 On March 8, 2024,
Derulo and Atlantic filed a demurrer to the FAC.  Given the court’s ruling on Derulo and
Atlantic’s Motion to Dismiss, the court does not reach their demurrer to the
FAC. 
 
IV.       HARRIS DEMURRER
 
A.    Legal Standard
 
“The primary function of a pleading is to give the other
party notice so that it may prepare its¿case [citation], and a defect in a
pleading that otherwise properly notifies a party cannot be said to affect
substantial rights.” (Harris v. City of Santa Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th
203, 240.)¿“A¿demurrer¿tests the legal sufficiency of the factual allegations
in a complaint.” (Ivanoff v. Bank of¿America, N.A.¿(2017) 9
Cal.App.5th 719, 725.) The Court looks to whether “the complaint alleges¿facts
sufficient to state a cause of action or discloses a complete defense.” (Id.)
The Court does not “read passages from a complaint in isolation; in reviewing a
ruling on a demurrer, we read the¿complaint ‘as a whole and its parts in their
context.’ [Citation.]” (West v. JPMorgan Chase Bank,¿N.A. (2013)
214 Cal.App.4th 780, 804.) The Court “assume[s] the truth of the properly
pleaded¿factual allegations, facts that reasonably can be inferred from those
expressly pleaded and matters of¿which judicial notice has been taken.” (Harris,
supra, 56 Cal.4th p. 240.) “The court does not,¿however, assume the
truth of contentions, deductions or conclusions of law. [Citation.]”  (Durell
v.¿Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.)¿ 
 
A demurrer may be brought if insufficient facts are stated
to support the cause of action asserted.¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(e).)¿“A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint
is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under
modern discovery procedures.”¿ (Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)¿¿¿ 
 
Where the complaint contains substantial factual allegations
sufficiently apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a
demurrer for uncertainty will be overruled or plaintiff will be given leave to
amend.¿ (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135,
139, fn. 2.)¿ Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable
possibility of successful amendment.¿ (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18
Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿ The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a
pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.)¿¿ 
 
B.    
Application
 
Meet and Confer 
 
“Before filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video
conference with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer
for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a).)¿ Defense counsel has complied with the meet and confer
requirement.  (See Declaration of Saam Takaloo, ¶¶ 2-3.)
 
Analysis
 
The First, Third, Sixth, Seventh, Eighth, and Ninth Causes
of Action are asserted against Harris.  Harris
now demurs to these causes of action of failure to state sufficient facts to
constitute a cause of action.  The court
addresses the causes of action as follows: FEHA Claims, Contract Claims, and
Tort Claims.
 
1.     
FEHA Claims (First and Third Causes of Action) 
 
The First and Third Causes of Action are brought under the
FEHA.  Generally, FEHA claims apply to
employers.  (See Kelly v. Methodist
Hospital of So. California (2000) 22 Cal.4th 1108, 1116 (predicating
potential FEHA “liability on the status of the defendant as an ‘employer.’”).)  As alleged, however, Harris was not Gibson’s
employer.  (See FAC, ¶¶ 10, 11.)  Nonetheless, Gibson attempts to hold Harris
liable for Quid Pro Quo Harassment and Retaliation in violation of the FEHA pursuant
to an aiding and abetting theory.  
 
The FEHA prohibits “any person” from aiding or abetting
workplace discrimination. (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (i).)  In order to be liable for aiding and abetting,
an agent must provide “substantial assistance or encouragement” to the employer
to violate FEHA. (Smith v. BP Lubricants USA Inc. (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th
138, 146; accord, Alch v. Superior Court (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 339, 389.)   “There
must be facts suggesting concerted activity…to commit FEHA violations, which is
the crux of an aiding and abetting claim under FEHA.”  (Smith,  64 Cal.App.5th at p. 146.) 
 
Here, Gibson alleges that Harris enabled Derulo’s conduct.  (FAC, ¶ 42.)  When Bales called Harris regarding a November
18, 2021 meeting where Derulo yelled at Gibson (FAC, ¶¶ 22, 23) and a June 7,
2022 incident where Derulo charged at Gibson and yelled at her for being late
(FAC, ¶¶ 28-29), Harris allegedly responded that there was nothing he could do and
that Derulo had the right to yell at Gibson at the meeting (FAC, ¶ 30).  There is no other conduct alleged against
Harris.  These allegations are
insufficient to establish concerted activity, substantial assistance, or
encouragement.  As alleged, Harris merely
stated that he could not do anything about Derulo’s conduct and that, after the
fact, Derulo was justified at yelling at Gibson at the meeting.  There are no allegations that Gibson plotted
or planned with Derulo to commit FEHA violations.  
 
Plaintiff’s third cause of action for retaliation also fails
for the separate reason that individuals cannot be held liable for their role
in retaliation.  Nonemployer individuals
are not personally liable for retaliation under the FEHA.  (Jones v. Lodge at Torrey Pines Partnership
(2008) 42 Cal.4th 1158, 1160.)    
 
Accordingly, Harris’s demurrer to the First and Third Causes
of Action is SUSTAINED. 
 
2.     
Contract
Claims (Sixth and Seventh Causes of Action)
 
The Sixth and Seventh Causes of Action are for breach of
contract and breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.  These causes of action are based on breach of
the Artist Agreements between Gibson, Derulo, Future History, and
Atlantic.  As alleged, Harris was not a
party to those agreements.  (See FAC, ¶¶
50, 60, 73, 83, 112.)  
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that her Contract Claims
against Harris are predicated on the breach of an oral promise, or
alternatively, an implied-in-fact contract. 
The breach is based on the allegation that Harris “promised Plaintiff
she was going to have access to everything DERULO had access to for purposes of
creating and recording music.”  (FAC, ¶¶ 16,
113, emphasis in original.)  Plaintiff’s
argument lacks merit.  The FAC alleges
that Plaintiff signed a contract with Derulo, Atlantic, and Future
History.  (FAC, ¶ 112.)  The Contract Claims are predicated on the
signed agreement.  The FAC does not plead
a cause of action for breach of an oral promise or implied-in-fact contract.
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the Sixth and Seventh Causes of
Action is SUSTAINED.
 
3.     
Tort Claims (Eighth and Ninth Causes of Action)
 
The Eighth and Ninth Causes of Action are for intentional
and negligent infliction of emotional distress. 
Both claims fail.  
 
The elements of an intentional infliction of emotional
distress (IIED) cause of action are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the
defendant; (2) intention to cause or reckless disregard of the probability of
causing emotional distress; (3) severe emotional suffering; and (4) actual and
proximate causation of the emotional distress. (See Moncada v. West Coast
Quartz Corp. (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 768, 780; Wilson v. Hynek (2012)
207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009.) To satisfy the element of extreme and outrageous
conduct, defendant’s conduct “‘must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of
that usually tolerated in a civilized society.’” (Moncada, supra, 221
Cal.App.4th at 780 (quoting Tererice v. Blue Cross of California
(1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 878, 883).)¿¿ 
 
As discussed above, Harris’s connection to this action is
his alleged role in aiding and abetting Derulo’s conduct and promising Gibson
access to resources for making music.  The
court has found that those allegations are insufficient to impose liability
against Harris under the FEHA or a breach of contract theory.  There are no other allegations of actionable
conduct by Harris.  The IIED claim is
deficient.
 
The negligent infliction of emotional distress claim fares
no better.  Negligent infliction of
emotional distress (“NIED”) is not an independent cause of action.¿ The tort of
negligence and the traditional elements of negligence must be alleged - i.e.
duty, breach, causation and damages.¿ (Zavala v. Arche (1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 915, 928; Marlene F. v. Psychiatric Medical Clinic (1989) 48
Cal.3d 583, 588 [“Damages for severe emotional distress, rather, are
recoverable in a negligence action when they result from the breach of a duty
owed the plaintiff that is assumed by the defendant or imposed on the defendant
as a matter of law, or that arises out of a relationship between the two”].)¿ A
plaintiff must be a direct victim or a bystander who witnessed the injury.¿ (Smith
v. Pust (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 263, 273.)¿ 
 
Here, the FAC does not allege any relationship between
Harris and Gibson that would give rise to a duty.  The FAC does not even allege that Harris was
an agent of any other defendant.   The
NIED claim is deficient. 
 
V.        DISPOSITIONS        
            1.
Defendants Jason Derulo and Atlantic Recording Corporation’s Motion to Dismiss
is granted.  Moving parties to give
notice.
            2. Defendants
Jason Derulo and Atlantic Recording Corporation’s Demurrers are moot.  
            3.
Defendant Frank Harris’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED. 
Leave to amend is DENIED. Demurring party to give notice.  


Dated:   April 16, 2024                                   




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
            
 
 


