  Case Number:  21STCV31539    Hearing Date:   April 22, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



VINCENZO AVERAIMO, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
CITY OF LOS ANGELES, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 21STCV31539
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION FOR NEW
  TRIAL
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
April 22, 2024



 
On
August 25, 2021, Plaintiff Vincenzo Averaimo filed this action against Defendant
City of Los Angeles.
On
August 31, 2023, Defendant filed a motion for summary judgment.
On
November 14, 2023, the Court issued a minute order noting that “Plaintiff’s responsive
Separate Statement relies heavily on his own declaration.  However, no such document is in the Court’s record.”  The Court therefore continued the hearing to allow
full consideration of Plaintiff’s opposition after Plaintiff filed his declaration.
At
the December 7, 2023 hearing, the Court took the matter under submission.
On
January 8, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s motion for summary judgment (“Order”).  
On
January 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed an objection to Defendant’s proposed judgment,
which had stated, “Defendant City of Los Angeles is entitled to costs as the prevailing
party.”  On February 13, 2024, the Court held
a hearing on the objection, and it entered judgment with the modification that each
side bear its own costs.
On
February 27, 2024, Plaintiff filed a notice of intent to move for a new trial.  The Court set a hearing on the motion, and on
March 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed his motion.
DISCUSSION
A
verdict may be vacated and a new trial ordered due to irregularity in the proceedings
that prevented a party from having a fair trial, misconduct of the jury, accident
or surprise, newly discovered evidence, excessive or inadequate damages, insufficiency
of the evidence to justify the verdict, or error in law.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 657.)
Plaintiff
argues that the Court generally misapplied the law, misinterpreted evidence, and
improperly ignored or weighed key evidence. 
(Motion at pp. 4-10.)  Plaintiff also
argues that there are disputed material facts. 
(Motion at pp. 11, 14-15.)
A.        The Court’s Oral Comments Are Not Grounds
For a New Trial.
Plaintiff
cites portions of the transcript from the summary judgment hearing to argue that
the Court misapplied the law.  (Motion at
pp. 4-6.)
“[A]
judge’s comments in oral argument may never be used to impeach the final order,
however valuable to illustrate the court’s theory they might be under some circumstances.”  (Jespersen v. Zubiate-Beauchamp (2003)
114 Cal.App.4th 624, 633.)
The
motion is denied on this ground.
B.        The Court Did Not Improperly Weigh Evidence.
Plaintiff
argues that the Court improperly weighed the evidence when it found that “[t]he
Plaintiff’s showing here is too weak to sustain a reasoned inference of discrimination
or retaliation.”  (Motion at pp. 5-6; Order
at p. 8.)  Plaintiff contends that this statement
“paved the way for this Motion, and, if necessary, an appeal, because the determination
of whether Plaintiff’s evidence is ‘too weak’ or too strong is the function of a
jury only.”  (Motion at p. 6.)
However,
this statement by the Court mirrors the legal standard.  As expressed in the Order, “At the hearing, Plaintiff’s
Counsel emphasized the legal standard as stated in Light v. Department of Parks
& Recreation (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 75, 94: ‘ . . . Thus, citing a legitimate
reason for the challenged action will entitle the employer to summary judgment only
when the employee’s showing, while sufficient to invoke the presumption, is too
weak to sustain a reasoned inference in the employee’s favor.  That, and not “pretext,” must be the focus of
the judicial inquiry.’”  (Order at p. 7, some
quotation marks omitted.)  “The stronger the
employer’s showing of a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason, the stronger the plaintiff’s
evidence must be in order to create a reasonable inference of a discriminatory motive.”  (Featherstone v. Southern California Permanente
Medical Group (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1159.)
It
is not improper for the Court to state that “[t]he Plaintiff’s showing here is too
weak to sustain a reasoned inference of discrimination or retaliation” when that
is the correct legal framework—and the legal standard emphasized by Plaintiff himself.
The
motion is denied on this ground.
C.        Plaintiff Has Not Shown That the Court
Misinterpreted Evidence.
Plaintiff
argues that the Court misinterpreted the evidence.  (Motion at pp. 7-10.)  Specifically, Plaintiff cites Defendant’s UMF
29-30 to show that “Defendant admits that none of its proffered reasons would have
justified the adverse employment actions on their own.”  (Motion at p. 7.)
UMF
29 states, “Captain Casey based his decision [to reassign Plaintiff] on the fact
that Averaimo had ‘six open personnel complaints with similar allegations of discourtesy,
being rude, and behaving in a disrespectful manner.’”  UMF 30 states, “Captain Casey ultimately stated
that ‘[b]ased on the totality of complaints in a relatively short period of time,
I find that it was reasonable for Officer Averaimo’s chain of command to be concerned
and take action to change and improve his performance.’”
According
to Plaintiff, “[i]t is not unreasonable to construe Defendant’s UF No. 30 as a confession
of Defendant’s retaliatory intent,” and UMF 30 “is an outright admission that Plaintiff,
who had been an excellent officer (and perceived as such) prior to his protected
activity, all of a sudden received numerous complaints in ‘a relatively short period
of time’ after his protected activity and after Defendant became aware of Plaintiff’s
protected status.”  (Motion at p. 7.)
The
fact that Plaintiff had six complaints in “relatively short period of time” still
does not show that the reassignment was done for discriminatory or retaliatory reasons.  Plaintiff cites no other evidence and makes no
other argument on this point.  (See Motion
at p. 7.)
The
motion is denied on this ground.
D.        Plaintiff Has Not Identified Evidence
That the Court Improperly Ignored or Weighed.
Plaintiff
argues that the Court improperly ignored or weighed certain evidence.  (Motion at pp. 7-10.)
First,
Plaintiff identifies temporal proximity because “Defendant’s adverse employment
actions began within one month of his protected activity in June of 2019.”  (Motion at p. 8.)  Although a plaintiff can satisfy his initial burden
by producing evidence of the proximity in time between the protected action and
the alleged retaliation, this evidence satisfies only the plaintiff’s initial burden.  (Loggins v. Kaiser Permanente Internat.
(2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 1102, 1112.)  After
the plaintiff establishes a prima facie case, the employer must offer a legitimate,
non-retaliatory reason for the adverse employment action.  (Ibid.; Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc.
(2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1042 (Yanowitz).)  Then the presumption of retaliation “drops out
of the picture,” and the burden shifts back to the plaintiff to prove intentional
retaliation.  (Yanowitz, supra, 36
Cal.4th at p. 1042.)  Plaintiff failed to
do so here.  The Court did consider the timing
of Plaintiff reporting harassment and being disciplined, but “it is undisputed that
the Plaintiff later violated policies in July 2019, September 2019, January 2020,
for which he was disciplined.”  (Order at
p. 8.)
Second,
Plaintiff argues that he provided corroborating evidence of Defendant’s retaliatory
animus through the Declaration of Sergeant Glenn, who witnessed a conversation.  (Motion at p. 8; see id. at pp. 14-15.)  According to Plaintiff, this evidence proves that
Sergeant Marrache told Plaintiff that “it looked very bad to Command that [Plaintiff]
had been a witness against two TSD employees . . . especially with all that [Plaintiff]
had been doing as a result.”  (Motion at p.
8; Glenn Suppl. Decl. ¶ 5.)  Glenn actually
declared that he “overheard Sgt. Marrache discuss with Officer Averaimo the issue
of Averaimo participating as a witness in another investigation involving alleged
misconduct by Sgt. Ashraf Hannah.”  (Glenn
Suppl. Decl. ¶ 5.)  Glenn heard Plaintiff
ask “how Sgt. Marrache could ask him (Averaimo) to be a witness against Sgt. Hanna
in light of Sgt. Marrache’s prior comments to Averaimo about how it looked very
bad to Command that Averaimo had been a witness against two TSO employees (Officer
Colby and Sergeant Hanna), especially with all that he (Averaimo) had been going
through as a result.”  (Glenn Suppl. Decl.
¶ 5.)  Glenn also declared that Marrache did
not deny that he previously said that.  (Glenn
Suppl. Decl. ¶ 5.)  But Glenn did not witness
the actual event of Marrache saying that “it looked very bad to Command,” nor does
he have personal knowledge of how Command perceived Plaintiff’s complaints.  This evidence is hearsay and does not create an
inference that Command’s actions were retaliatory.
Third,
Plaintiff argues that he was specifically targeted.  (Motion at p. 8; see id. at pp. 14-15.)  Plaintiff contends that Defendant instituted a
brand-new Telematics Program that it enforced solely on Plaintiff.  (Motion at p. 8.)  On December 26, 2019, Plaintiff was subjected
to a Telematics audit.  (Averaimo Decl. ¶
7.)  At his May 24, 2022 deposition, Plaintiff
testified that Glenn told him that he was the only officer audited under the Telematics
Program.  (Averaimo Depo. at pp. 80-82.)  Glenn also declared that he knows of no other
Telematics claim in department history.  (Glenn
Decl. ¶ 12.)  However, the Telematics audit
merely obtained information about his police vehicle.  (Averaimo Depo. at p. 74.)  This audit is not an adverse employment action.  (See Akers v. County of San Diego (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th
1441, 1455 [an adverse employment action “must result in a substantial adverse change
in the terms and conditions of the plaintiff’s employment”]; Gov. Code, § 12940,
subd. (a) [FEHA prohibits discrimination in compensation, terms, conditions, or
privileges of employment on the basis of membership in a protected class].)  
Fourth,
Plaintiff argues that he suffered differential treatment because other employees
(not members of Plaintiff’s protected class and who did not engage in protected
activity) who had outstanding complaints were not subjected to the same adverse
treatment.  (Motion at p. 8; see id.
at p. 15.)  Plaintiff cites only Glenn’s declaration
stating that he was “aware that Lieutenant Perez had at least four or five open
complaints while Sergeant Najara had at least three or four open complaints, yet
they were never moved, downgraded or reprimanded.”  (Glenn Decl. ¶ 17.)  It was undisputed that Captain Brian Pratt cited
Plaintiff’s failure to report his detention by an outside police agency, his complaint
history regarding his demeanor being discourteous and rude towards the public, and
his history of written discipline as the reason for his demotion.  (UMF 21; Order at p. 3.)  Plaintiff provided no evidence of the nature of
these complaints against the other officers and whether they were comparable complaints.
The
motion is denied on this ground.
E.        The Court Did Not Ignore Adverse Employment
Actions.
Plaintiff
argues that the Court did not address several adverse employment actions that Defendant
took after it discovered his protected class and after he engaged in protected activity.  (Motion at pp. 9-10.)
Plaintiff
contends that his supervisors suddenly began resolving standard public complaints
to Plaintiff’s detriment, specifically identifying a July 3, 2019 use of force incident.  (Motion at p. 9.)  It is undisputed that Plaintiff was disciplined
because of his discourteous and rude behavior toward a member of the public, not
for use of force.  (UMF 7; Order at pp. 2,
6-7.)
Plaintiff
again argues that he was the sole focus of a Telematics audit.  (Motion at p. 9.)  As discussed above, this was not an adverse employment
action.
Plaintiff
contends that Defendant retaliated and discriminated against him for availing himself
of an Alternative Complaint Resolution procedure following an Internal Affairs investigation
against him.  (Motion at p. 9.)  As Defendant notes (Opposition at p. 11), this
was not alleged in the Complaint as being an adverse employment action.  Plaintiff alleged only that after a January 11,
2020 traffic stop, “Plaintiff was offered and took the option of an Alternative
Complaint Resolution, however in further retaliation/discrimination the command
staff at TSD would utilize this as a pattern of conduct against him.”  (Complaint ¶ 19.)  There are no further allegations about retaliation
for Plaintiff’s use of the Alternative Complaint Resolution procedure.  Rather, Plaintiff alleged that Defendant “retaliated
against him for speaking out against inappropriate workplace behavior, reporting
and speaking out against wrongful and discriminatory, and retaliatory treatment
based on his sexual orientation, speaking out against improper conduct, and for
generally attempting to protect and secure his rights and the rights of others under
the FEHA.”  (Complaint ¶ 41.)  Accordingly, this was not at issue in this action.
According
to Plaintiff, on February 2, 2020, Defendant benched him from public contact after
a complaint that Plaintiff says was an “unfair policing complaint.”  (Motion at p. 9.)  Plaintiff cites his Additional Material Fact No.
9, which describes a March 24, 2020 traffic stop with the violator traveling at
high rate of speed.  (AMF 9.)  No February 2, 2020 event is set forth in either
party’s Separate Statement.  Assuming that
Plaintiff’s motion intended to address the March 24, 2020 traffic stop, a complaint
was filed against Plaintiff, an Internal Affairs investigation was pursued, and
command staff “elected to bench Plaintiff from public contact.”  (AMF 9; see Complaint ¶ 20.)  Plaintiff did not raise this as an adverse employment
action in his Opposition to Defendant’s Motion. 
To the extent that Plaintiff does rely on this, Plaintiff did not argue or
provide evidence beyond his conclusory statement that Defendant acted for improper
reasons.  (Motion at p. 9 [“unfair policing
complaint”]; Complaint ¶ 20 [“In further discrimination and retaliation”]; Opposition
to MSJ at p. 3 [“In further discrimination and retaliation”].)
Plaintiff
also cites his first and only negative performance evaluation on July 9, 2020.  (Motion at p. 10; see id. at p. 15.)  However, Plaintiff’s own evidence shows that this
evaluation was based on the prior incidents and complaints.  (Averaimo Depo. at pp. 101-102; see Glenn Decl.
¶ 16.)
Finally,
Plaintiff notes his October 2020 administrative transfer to North Hollywood and
his removal from overtime and future details in August 2021.  (Motion at p. 10.)  However, it is undisputed that “[a]s part of the
adjudication of the incident with Pasadena PD, Captain James Pitt reviewed Averaimo’s
open complaint history and approved a recommendation that he be demoted and subject
to an administrative transfer.”  (UMF 17;
see UMF 33; see also Order at pp. 6-7.)  Additionally,
Plaintiff did not raise this as an adverse employment action in his Opposition to
Defendant’s Motion.  To the extent that Plaintiff
does rely on this, Plaintiff again did not argue or provide evidence beyond his
conclusory statement that Defendant acted in further retaliation.  (Motion at p. 10; Complaint ¶ 26 [“In further
retaliation”]; Complaint ¶ 28 [“Plaintiff was further retaliated against”]; Opposition
to MSJ at pp. 4-5 [“In further retaliation . . . Plaintiff was further retaliated
against”].)
The
motion is denied on this ground.
F.         Plaintiff Has Not Identified Material
Disputed Facts.
Plaintiff
argues that there are two “key disputed material facts” that establish that a new
trial is warranted.  (Motion at pp. 11-12.)
Plaintiff
argues that “[t]here is a dispute as to whether any officers made negative statements
regarding Plaintiff being a witness to two acts of alleged sexual harassment.”  He contends that Glenn’s declaration is “corroborating
evidence” that Officer Marrache “previously told Plaintiff that ‘it looked very
bad to Command that [Plaintiff] had been a witness against two TSD employees . .
. especially with all that he [Plaintiff] had been going through as a result.’”  Plaintiff faults the Court for finding that this
evidence was “too weak” because “[t]his is a misapplication of the law because it
subverts the fact-finding role of the jury.” 
For the reasons previously discussed, Glenn’s declaration is not competent
evidence on this fact, and the Court can conclude that an employee’s showing is
too weak to sustain a reasoned inference in the employee’s favor.
Plaintiff
also argues that “[t]here is a dispute as to why Plaintiff was subjected to various
adverse employment actions,” and “by granting the MSJ simply because the Court did
not find Plaintiff’s evidence persuasive, it misapplied the law by subverting the
fact-finding role of the jury.”  However,
Plaintiff concedes that “there is no dispute as to whether Plaintiff committed the
policy violations in question.”  Because these
policy violations were Defendant’s proffered legitimate and non-discriminatory reasons
for its actions, it became Plaintiff’s burden to prove intentional retaliation.  (Yanowitz, supra, 36 Cal.4th at p. 1042.)  For all the reasons discussed above and in the
Order, Plaintiff failed to do so.
The
motion is denied on this ground.
CONCLUSION
The
motion for new trial is DENIED.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 22nd day of April 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 