  Case Number:  23STCV27943    Hearing Date:   January 2, 2025    Dept:  17   Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles   DEPARTMENT  17   TENTATIVE RULING      SARKIS PRUSALIAN, et al.                   vs.   MERCURY CASUALTY    COMPANY        Case    No.:  23STCV27943        Hearing Date:  January 2, 2025        Plaintiff’s  motion to set aside dismissal is GRANTED.   The $300 monetary sanctions imposed 9/26/24 are past due.               On  11/14/2023, Plaintiffs Sarkis Prusalian and Anet Vartanians-Prusalian  (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed suit against Mercury Casualty Company,  alleging: (1) breach of contract; and (2) breach of covenant of good faith and  fair dealing.                On  9/26/2024, the Court dismissed the action for failure to prosecute.                On  10/26/2024, Plaintiff moved to set aside the dismissal.    Discussion                                                        Plaintiff  seeks relief pursuant Civil Code section 473(b), citing attorney error and  mistake. Section 473(b) provides:   The court  may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal  representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken  against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable  neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the  answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the  application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time,  in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or  proceeding was taken. . .    Notwithstanding  any other requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an  application for relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment,  is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit  attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any  (1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which  will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment  or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the  default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake,  inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. The court shall, whenever relief is granted  based on an attorney's affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay  reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties.                                                               Here, Plaintiff’s counsel submitted a  declaration taking responsibility for the dismissal explaining:   1.       I am at fault for failing to appear at  the May 22, 2024, Case Management Conference in this matter. Due to my own  mistake, inadvertence, surprise and neglect, I failed to properly calendar this  hearing on my schedule and, as a result, I failed to appear. 2.       I am also at fault for failing to  appear at the September 26, 2024, Order to Show Cause re Failure to Prosecute.  Due to my own mistake, inadvertence, surprise and neglect, I again failed to  properly calendar this hearing on my schedule and, as a result, I failed to  appear. 3.       Both of these failures were a symptom  of a larger systemic problem with my calendar scheduling. I have since taken  steps to change my calendaring process and to implement safeguards to ensure  that these errors are never repeated.            (Weber  Decl. ¶¶ 1-3.)            Relief is mandatory where the moving  papers are accompanied by a credible "attorney's sworn affidavit attesting  to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect." (CCP § 473(b);  see also Cowan v. Krayzman (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 907, 915.)            Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s  motion to set aside dismissal is granted.    It is so ordered.    Dated:  January     , 2025                                                                                                                                                    Hon. Jon R.  Takasugi    Judge of the  Superior Court       Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must  send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org  by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court  website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits  on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must  identify the party submitting on the tentative.   If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this  tentative as the final order.  If the department  does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the  tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed  off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)  633-0517.                   