  Case Number:  22STCV04700    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
CLAUDIA
  MENDOZA, ET AL., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22STCV04700




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING RE: 
(1)
  MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
(2)
  JOINDER IN MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT   




 
TORRANCE
  MEMORIAL MEDICAL CENTER, ET AL.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:              May 30, 2024
 
Moving
Party:             Defendant
Ricardo Huete, MD.
Joined
by:                    Defendant Torrance
Physicians Network
Responding
Party:       Plaintiffs Claudia Mendoza
and Salvador Mendoza Maldonado[1]
(1)
Motion for Summary Judgment by Defendant Ricardo Huete, MD
(2)
Joinder in Huete Motion for Summary Judgment by Torrance Physicians Network 

            The court considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers, although they were filed out of chronological order.  
RULING
            Defendant Ricardo Huete’s Motion for
Summary Judgment is DENIED.
            Defendant Torrance Physicians
Network’s Request for Joinder to Huete’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED
and its Motion for Summary Judgment is similarly DENIED.   
BACKGROUND
            Plaintiff Claudia Mendoza underwent
an ultrasound for her pregnancy on July 21, 2020, as ordered by
Defendants.  Defendant Albert Grabb, MD
read the ultrasound that day and reported that the images suggested there was
an abortion in progress.  Defendant
Ricardo Huete, MD thereafter prescribed Misoprostol to Claudia and directed her
to take it to help purge the alleged dead fetus.  
            Thereafter, another ultrasound was
performed by Defendants that revealed evidence of a fetal heartbeat.[2]  As a result of these acts, Claudia alleges
she was forced to undergo a hysterectomy. 

            On February 7, 2022, Plaintiffs
Claudia Mendoza and Salvador Mendoza Maldonado filed this action against
Torrance Memorial Medical Center (“TMMC”), Torrance Memorial Physicians
Network, Torrance Radiology Medical Group, Richard Huete, MD and Albert Grabb,
MD based on Defendants’ treatment of Claudia Mendoza for her pregnancy.  Plaintiffs’ complaint alleges (1) Negligence
(all Defendants); (2) negligence (against Torrance Memorial Physician Network
and Torrance Radiology).
            On March 12, 2024, the court granted
Defendant Torrance Memorial Medical Center’s Motion for Summary Judgment.  Judgment was entered on April 26, 2024 in
TMMC’s favor and against Plaintiff.  
            On March 12, 2024, the court denied
Torrance Memorial Physicians Network’s Joinder to Defendant Ricardo Huete’s Motion
for Summary Judgment on grounds that Huete had not filed a Motion for Summary
Judgment.  On March 13, 2024, Defendant
Ricardo Huete, MD filed the Motion for Summary Judgment currently before the court.  On March 13, 2024, Defendant Torrance
Memorial Physicians Network filed a joinder to Defendant Huete’s Motion for
Summary Judgment.  
            On January 23, 2024, prior to
Defendant Huete filing his Motion for Summary Judgment with the Court, Plaintiff
filed an opposition to Huete’s Motion for Summary Judgment.  On March 7, 2024, Defendants Huete and
Torrance Memorial Physicians Network filed a reply to Plaintiff’s January 23,
2024 opposition to Huete’s Motion for Summary Judgment.  
            Although filed out of chronological order,
the court will consider Huete’s moving papers, Plaintiff’s January 23, 2024
papers and Huete’s reply papers.    
DISCUSSION
             Legal Standard
            The elements of a medical
malpractice cause of action are (1) the duty of the professional to use such
skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of his profession commonly
possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a proximate causal
connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting injury; and (4)
actual loss or damage resulting from the professional's negligence.  (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical
Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 468 fn 2.)  
            The standard of skill, knowledge and
care prevailing in a medical community is ordinarily a matter within the
knowledge of experts.  (Jambazian v.
Borden (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 836, 844.) 
“The standard of care for physicians is the reasonable degree of skill,
knowledge and care ordinarily possessed and exercised by members of the medical
profession under similar circumstances. 
The test for determining familiarity with the standard of care is
knowledge of similar conditions. 
Geographical location may be a factor considered in making that determination,
but, by itself, does not provide a practical basis for measuring similar
circumstances.”  (Avivi v. Centro
Medico Urgente Medical Center, supra, at 159 Cal.App.4th at 470.)
            Whether the standard of care in the
community has been breached presents a basic issue of fact in a malpractice
action which can only be proved by expert opinion testimony unless the medical
question is within the common knowledge of laypersons.  (Id. at 470, fn. 1; 1 Witkin, Cal.
Evid. (6th ed. 2021), Opinion, §52.) 
“[A]n opinion unsupported by reasons or explanations does not establish
the absence of a material fact issue for trial, as required for summary
judgment.”  (Golden Eagle Refinery
Co., Inc. v. Associated Intern. Ins. Co. (2001) 85 Cal.App.4th 1300, 1315
(citing Kelley v. Trunk (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 519, 524).  Accordingly, where a plaintiff provides
proper opposing expert testimony via a declaration, a triable issue of material
fact is raised which precludes summary judgment.  (Jambazian, supra, 25 Cal.App.4th at
844.)  The absence of opinion evidence on
this issue is fatal to the plaintiff’s cause of action.  (Willard v. Hagemeister (1981) 121
Cal.App.3d 406, 412.)  An expert
declaration is admissible as long as Defendants’ expert states in detail his
qualifications and the factual basis for his opinion.  (Kelley, supra, 66 Cal.App.4th
at 524.)  
            Expert testimony is also required to
establish the element of causation in a medical malpractice action.  “The law is well settled that in a personal
injury action causation must be proven within a reasonable medical probability
based on competent expert testimony. Mere possibility alone is insufficient to
establish a prima facie case. That there is a distinction between a reasonable
medical probability and a medical possibility needs little discussion. There
can be many possible causes, indeed, an infinite number of circumstances that
can produce an injury or disease. A possible cause only becomes probable when,
in the absence of other reasonable causal explanations, it becomes more likely
than not that the injury was a result of its action. This is the outer limit of
inference upon which an issue may be submitted to the jury.”  (Jennings v. Palomar Pomerado Health
Systems, Inc. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 1108, 1118 (trial court properly
struck medical expert testimony on issue of causation where expert’s opinion
failed to provide a reasoned explanation regarding the etiology connecting
plaintiff’s infected subcutaneous tissue to the nidus inside peritoneal cavity
where retractor was retained).  
            Evidentiary Objections
            Defendant Huete’s Objections to
Adamczak Declaration are overruled. 
            Torrance Memorial Physicians
Network’s Joinder
            Torrance Memorial Physicians Network’s joinder is
granted.  Torrance Memorial Physicians
Network submits a Separate Statement of its own and its interests are
sufficiently aligned that joinder would be proper.  (CCP §437c(b)(3); 6 Witkin, Cal. Proc.
(6th ed. 2023), PWT §257.) 
            Parties’ Positions
            Defendant Huete moves for summary judgment on grounds
that his prescription of misoprostol to Plaintiff Claudia did not cause her to
undergo a hysterectomy.  Defendant Huete
relies on the declaration of L. Joel Kessler as expert evidence that (1) Huete
complied with the standard of care at al times and (2) the misoprostol was not
a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff to undergo a hysterectomy.  Defendant Huete argues that, because
Plaintiff Claudia’s negligence claim fails, Plaintiff Salvador’s loss of
consortium claim fails as well.  
            In opposition, Plaintiffs present
the declaration of Joanna Adamczak, MD. 
Plaintiffs argue Adamczak opines that Defendant Huete breached his duty
of care in multiple ways, including failing to disclose the potential risks and
effects of misoprostol (Cytotec) on a fetus during the pregnancy.  Plaintiffs argue Adamczak opines to a
reasonable degree of certainty that it was Huete’s prescription of Cytotec that
caused Baby Cataleya’s cleft lip and palate. 

            Plaintiff argues Defendant Huete
only addresses causation relating to Plaintiff Claudia’s hysterectomy.  Plaintiffs argue they have alleged damages
they personally suffered due to Baby Cataleya’s birth defects, including economic
and noneconomic injuries.  Plaintiffs
argue Defenant Huete also fails to address her allegations that he failed to
disclose the risks of Cytotec, which included birth defects.  Plaintiffs argue that had they known that
Baby Cataleya was in danger of birth defects from the Cytotec, they would have
sought genetic counseling and made an informed decision regarding aborting the
pregnancy.  Plaintiffs argue Claudia
suffered multiple injuries separate from the hysterectomy. 
            Plaintiffs also argue that
Salvador’s loss of consortium claim is separate and distinct from Claudia’s
claims. Plaintiffs argue Salvador suffered loss of consortium due to the
depression and pain Plaintiff Claudia was suffering as a result of taking
Cytotec, which caused Baby Catalya’s deformities.       
            In reply, Defendant Huete argues
Plaintiff’s expert only testifies that the misdiagnosis and prescription of
Cytotec caused Baby Catalya’s cleft lip and palate.  Defendant Huete argues Plaintiff’s expert
never opined that the Cytotec caused Plaintiff Claudia any injury.  Defendant Huete argues Plaintiffs’ multiple
theories of direct injury as a result of Baby Catalya’s deformities is outside
the scope of the complaint.  Defendant
Huete argues the complaint only put him on notice of Plaintiffs’ claim that the
Cytotec caused (1) Baby Cataleya to suffer birth defects, which are injuries to
her, not Plaintiffs; and (2) Plaintiff Claudia to undergo a hysterectomy.  Defendant Huete argues Plaintiffs have
submitted no evidence to rebut his showing that the Cytotec did not cause
Claudia to undergo a hysterectomy.
            Triable issues of fact remain as
to Plaintiff Claudia’s negligence claims
            Defendant Huete moves for summary
judgment.  There is no request for
adjudication of any individual cause of action, issue of duty, punitive damages
claim or affirmative defense.  As such, a
triable issue of fact as to any cause of action would require denial.
            Triable issues of fact remain as to
whether Huete breached his duty of care based on his failure to disclose the
risks of misoprostol when he initially prescribed the medication and when he
discovered the pregnancy was viable. 
Huete allegedly breached his duty of care by failing to fully disclose
the risks of Cytotec prior to prescribing the drug to Claudia.  (Complaint, ¶23.)  
            Huete claims Plaintiff Claudia was
informed of the possible risks of taking Cytotec/misoprostol after it
was discovered that she had a viable pregnancy. 
(Huete Separate Statement, SSUMF No. 8.) 
Huete’s Separate Statement does not address whether he disclosed the
risks of Cytotec/misoprostol before Defendants discovered that the
pregnancy was in fact viable.  Plaintiffs
allege Huete did not explain the risks of the medication (1) when he initially
prescribed after determining that Claudia was in the midst of a miscarriage and
(2) after he discovered she was not in the midst of a miscarriage.  As such, Huete fails to negate Plaintiffs’
allegation that he did not disclose the risks of misoprostol to her before prescribing
it to her initially.
            Plaintiffs also raise a triable
issue of fact as to whether Huete disclosed the risks to her of ingesting
Cytotec after he discovered she had a viable pregnancy.  As Plaintiffs point out, the evidence relied
upon by Defendant in support of SSUMF No. 8 is Huete’s doctor’s notes.  The notes only state that he informed the
patient about “possible risks,” but the notes do not clearly specify the
possible risks of what.  (Defendant’s
Evidence, Goethals Dec., Ex. I.)  
            During deposition, Plaintiffs also
disputed that Huete disclosed the risks of Cytotec after the pregnancy was
discovered to be viable.  Huete himself testified
that he could not recall what risks he disclosed to Plaintiffs after
discovering that the pregnancy was viable. 
(Plaintiffs’ Notice of Lodging of Exhibits, Ex. D, Huete Deposition, 77:2-4.)  Plaintiffs testified at deposition that Huete
never disclosed any risks associated with misoprostol, despite Plaintiffs
directly questioning him has to whether it would have any negative effect on
the fetus.  (Plaintiffs’ Notice of
Lodging of Exhibits, Ex. B, Claudia Maldonado Deposition, 63:12-64:14; Ex. C, Salvador
Mendoza Deposition, Ex. C, 19:2-20:21.) 
In fact, Plaintiffs testified that when they asked about the risks
associated with the Cytotec given the viable pregnancy, he told them everything
would be fine.  (Plaintiffs’ Notice of
Lodging of Exhibits, Ex. B, Claudia Maldonado Deposition, 63:12-64:14; Ex. C,
Salvador Mendoza Deposition, Ex. C, 19:2-20:21.)
            For this same reason, defense expert
Kessler’s opinion that Defendant Huete did not breach any standard of care does
not negate Plaintiffs’ allegation of breach based on failure to disclose the
risks of misoprostol in connection with a viable pregnancy.  Kessler based his opinion that Huete complied
with the standard of care on Claudia’s medical records and Huete’s deposition
testimony.  However, as discussed above,
neither Exhibit I nor Huete’s deposition testimony disclose what risks he
disclosed and whether he disclosed the risks of misoprostol on a viable
pregnancy, specifically its teratogenic effect on a viable fetus.  To the extent Kessler is testifying regarding
breach of duty based on failure to disclose the teratogenic risks of
misoprostol on a viable fetus, his testimony lacks foundation.  
            Therefore, a fundamental material
question of fact remains as to whether Huete disclosed the risks of misoprostol
to Plaintiffs both before and after the pregnancy was discovered to be
viable  Resolution of this question of
fact does not require expert testimony remains. 
            In addition, questions of fact
remain as to whether Huete’s failure to disclose the risks of misoprostol
caused Plaintiffs’ alleged injuries. 
Defendant Huete’s expert, L. Joel Kessler, opines that Plaintiff
Claudia’s hysterectomy was not caused by her ingestion of misoprostol.  (Defendant’s Evidence, Kessler Dec., ¶19.)  Kessler’s testimony regarding Plaintiff
Claudia’s hysterectomy only addresses whether the misoprostol caused one of
several injuries alleged by Plaintiffs.  Contrary
to Defendants’ position, Plaintiffs’ alleged injuries are not limited to Claudia’s
hysterectomy.  Plaintiffs allege that as
a result of Huete’s prescription of the misoprostol without disclosing the
potential consequences, risks and dangers associated with it, Plaintiffs
suffered “pain, suffering, loss of enjoyment of life, anxiety, discomfort and
other non-economic damages.”  (Complaint,
¶24.)  Plaintiffs also allege that they
were “prevented from engaging in what would otherwise be a normal life, and
Plaintiffs sustained loss of income, the duration and extent of which is as yet
determined.”  (Complaint, ¶25.)  
            Plaintiffs’ complaint is not so
narrowly drafted as Huete would have the court believe.  Kessler’s expert testimony on causation and
Plaintiff Claudia’s hysterectomy therefore does not negate Plaintiffs’ claim of
causation and injury.  
            Kessler also opines that nothing
Huete did was a “substantial factor in causing any injury to plaintiffs.”  (Defendant’s Evidence, Kessler Dec., ¶22.)  Kessler’s opinion that nothing Huete did was
a substantial factor in causing any of Plaintiffs’ alleged injuries lacks
foundation.  Kessler lays no foundation
for his opinion, for example, that nothing Huete did was a substantial factor
in causing Plaintiffs’ economic injury, e.g. increase costs due to the birth
defects caused to Baby Cataleya, or their noneconomic injury, e.g. emotional
distress and suffering due to the birth defects Cataleya suffered due to
Claudia’s ingestion of misoprostol at Huete’s instruction.  
            Defendant Huete’s contention that
Plaintiffs cannot claim any damages due to Baby Catalya’s birth defects because
those defects only injured Baby Cataleya. 
However, as Plaintiffs argue in opposition, they are claiming that
defects suffered by Baby Cataleya resulted in direct injury to Plaintiffs, both
economic and noneconomic.  
            Defendant Huete argues such a theory
is outside the scope of Plaintiffs’ complaint, which does not allege a claim
for wrongful birth.  Plaintiffs’
complaint is not so narrowly drafted as to eliminate direct economic and
noneconomic injury as a result of Baby Catalya’s defects, which Plaintiffs’
expert clearly testifies was caused by the misoprostol.  (Plaintiffs’ Notice of Lodgment of Evidence, Ex.
A, Adamczak Dec., ¶8(f).)  At best,
Huete’s attack would be an attack on the pleadings.  Given the evidence and Plaintiffs’ arguments,
even if construed as an attack on the pleadings, leave to amend would be
granted. 
            Defendant Huete fails to satisfy his
initial burden as moving party.  Even if
he had, Plaintiffs raise triable issues of fact as to breach and
causation.  Because triable issues of
fact remain as to breach and causation in connection with Plaintiff Claudia’s
negligence claims, Defendant’s Huete’s Motion for Summary Judgment is denied.  
            ORDER
            Defendant
Huete’s Motion for Summary Judgement is DENIED. 
Defendant Torrance Memorial Physicians Network’s Joinder is GRANTED and
its Motion for Summary Judgment is similarly DENIED.  
            Plaintiffs
are ordered to give notice of ruling.


