 Case Number:  23NWCP00359    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  C LUI v. FIRST
EVANGELICAL COMMUNITY CHURCH
CASE
NO.:  23NWCP00359
HEARING:
05/30/24
 
#5
 
Defendant
FIRST EVANGELICAL COMMUNITY CHURCH’s Motion for a Protective Order is DENIED.
 
Opposing
Party to give notice. 
 
This
is an action by a former “member” of a religious corporation being brought
against the religious corporation. The action is thus similar to a derivative
action. 
 
This
action for inspection of church books and records was filed by Plaintiff
WILLIAM LUI (“Plaintiff”) on September 7, 2023. Plaintiff alleges that he was a
longstanding member of the FIRST EVANGELICAL COMMUNITY CHURCH (“Defendant” or
“FECC”). In response to the FECC”s decision to withdraw from the First
Evangelical Church Association, Plaintiff sent a written demand, via electronic
mail, for inspection of Defendant FIRST EVALGELICAL COMMUNITY CHURCH
(“Defendant” or “FECC”) books and records on March 30, 2023. (Complaint ¶21.)
On May 6, 2023, Plaintiff provided the FECC with another written demand for
inspection of the FECC annual report and financial report. (Id. ¶23.) As of the
date this action was filed, Plaintiff has not been provided with accounting books
and financial records of FECC. (Id. ¶25.) 
 
Plaintiff’s
Complaint asserts a sole cause of action for Enforcement of Inspection Rights
Pursuant to California Corporations Code §9514. 
 
On
October 3, 2023, Plaintiff served a Request for Production of Documents (set
one) onto Defendant. 
 
Defendant
now moves for entry of a protective order “because at issue in this matter is
whether plaintiff has standing to bring a lawsuit against FECC under the
California Corporations Code. Without the matter [of] plaintiff’s legal
standing resolved, requiring the defendant to respond to discovery requests
would subject FECC to an oppressive and burdensome abuse of process.” (Motion
3:7-11.) Defendant argues that Plaintiff lacks standing to sue the FECC under
Corp. Code §9514 because Plaintiff has not been a member of the FECC since
November 3, 2023. 
 
In
Opposition, Plaintiff argues that Plaintiff was a member at the time the
demands for inspection for made, and at the time this action was filed. In bad
faith, Defendant unilaterally terminated his membership with the FECC to avoid
their obligation to comply with Plaintiff’s demands for inspection. 
 
“When
an inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of documents, tangible things,
places, or electronically stored information has been demanded, the party to
whom the demand has been directed, and any other party or affected person, may
promptly move for a protective order…. [¶] The court, for good cause shown, may
make any order that justice requires to protect any party or other person from
unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and
expense.” (CCP §2031.060(a)(b).) 
 
Under
Cal. Corp. Code §9512, “the accounting books and records and minutes of
proceedings of the members and the board and committees of the board shall be
open to inspection upon the written demand on the corporation of any member at
any reasonable time, for a purpose reasonably related to such person’s
interests as a member.” Plaintiff alleges that he was a member of the church
when the first and second written demands for inspection of books and records
were made, in compliance with Corp. Code §9512. Plaintiff has established
standing to enforce his right to the books and records when the church failed
to produce them upon request (on March 30, 2023 and May 6, 2023). (Cal. Corp.
Code §9514.) 
 
Moreover,
as argued in Reply, it is not necessary for Plaintiff to establish “standing”
to sue in opposition to this Motion. This dispositive issue is more
appropriately resolved via demurrer or summary judgment. Here, Defendant moves
for entry of a blanket protective order, without specifying why production of
particular documents would be unduly burdensome or oppressive. Importantly, no
explanation of which specific Requests Defendant seeks protection from have
been provided to this Court. Defendant maintains that Plaintiff is barred from
seeking any discovery at all throughout the pendency of this case. However,
Defendant has not justified the imposition of any such blanket order.  
 
The
Motion is DENIED.  
 
 