 Case Number:  23STCV11384    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  73 7/10/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
MALDONADO v. AMERICAN
HONDA MOTOR CO., INC., et al. (23STCV11384)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party:  Natan Davoodi
(The Law Offices of Natan Davoodi, Esq.)
Counsel for Defendant/moving
party: Joseph Fitzgerald (Macdonald & Cody, LLP)
 
DEFENDANT’S motion to SET ASIDE ENTRY OF
DEFAULT AND FOR LEAVE TO RESPOND TO PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT (filed by Defendant American
Family Connect Property and Casualty Insurance Company on 05/22/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant American
Family Connect Property and Casualty Insurance Company’s motion to set aside
default and for leave to respond to Plaintiff’s Complaint is GRANTED. 
 
Defendant is ordered to file its proposed Demurrer and Motion to
Strike—which is attached in support of the motion—within five (5) days of the
date of this order so that it becomes an operative pleading in this
action.  
 
Moving party
is ordered to give notice. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On May 19, 2023, Plaintiff Oseas Maldonado filed
this action against Defendants American Honda Motor Co., Inc. (“American
Honda”) and American Family Connect Property and Casualty Insurance Company
(“American Family”). 
 
The Complaint alleges the following causes of
action:
1.    
Violation of Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act
2.    
Breach of Implied Warranty of Merchantability
3.    
Negligent Repair
4.    
Misrepresentation
5.    
Violation of Magnuson-Moss Warranty Federal Trade Commission
Improvement Act
6.    
Breach of Contractual Duty to Pay a Covered Claim
7.    
Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealings
8.    
Breach of the Implied Obligation of Good Faith and Fair
Dealings
9.    
Bad Faith – Failure to Properly Investigate a Claim
10.  Tortious Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith
and Fair Dealings
 
The Complaint alleges the following. On or about March 2, 2023, Plaintiff purchased a 2022 Honda Pilot
automobile, vehicle identification number (“VIN”) 5FNYF6H35NB105550 manufactured
by American Honda. On or about April 20, 2023, with approximately 1,100 miles
on the odometer, the vehicle’s dash flashed and smoke started coming from front
passenger side. Plaintiff pulled over to the side of the vehicle. The vehicle
caught fire. On or about April 20, 2023, Plaintiff opened a claim with American
Family. On April 25, 2023, American Family stated the vehicle was valued at
$38,474.00. Plaintiff was then asked to sign paperwork to close out the claim.
Plaintiff requested documentation to confirm that Plaintiff was not at fault;
however, American Family has refused to confirm Plaintiff was not at fault. Plaintiff
alleges that American Family failed to conduct any investigation and has refused
to state that Plaintiff was not at fault.
 
On April 26, 2024, default was entered against
Defendant American Family. 
 
On
May 22, 2024, Defendant American Family filed the instant Motion to Set Aside
and Vacate Dismissal, arguing:
·      
Defendant American Family requests that the court set aside the
default entered by Plaintiff and grant leave to file a responsive pleading. Defendant
attaches a Demurrer to the instant Motion.
·      
Defendant brings this motion for relief from default on the grounds
that mistake, inadvertence, surprise, and/or excusable neglect pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 473(b) has resulted in a default being entered, and
further brings this motion under the Court’s equitable powers to set aside the
default due to the occurrence of extrinsic fraud or mistake.
·      
Defendant’s lack of knowledge of service was not due to attempts
to avoid service of process or inexcusable neglect; in fact, counsel for
Defendant American Family had been in regular contact with Plaintiff’s counsel
for months leading up to service of the complaint, and had actually advised
Plaintiff’s counsel in February, 2024 that formal service needed to be
completed so that American Family could file a responsive pleading. 
o  
American Family’s failure to timely answer the complaint was due
to clear mistake regarding service on the part of its agent, CSC, which could
have been avoided with any type of courtesy communication of service by
Plaintiff’s counsel
o  
Instead of providing defense counsel with proof of service of
process as requested, which counsel has never provided to date, Plaintiff’s
counsel responded by aggressively seeking default.
·       This Court
has the discretion under its equitable powers to set aside the default and
American Family meets all requirements to have such relief granted. Given that
Defendant was unaware that the Complaint had been served until after default
was entered, equitable principles necessitate that Defendant be permitted to
defend this lawsuit.
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff contends:
·       Plaintiff complied with statutory requirements of
service. Defendant does not dispute that it was properly served.
·      
Defendant also had actual notice of the lawsuit
·      
Defendant has not met the legal standard for setting aside default
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure 473(b)
·      
Defendant also has not established that default was entered
against it due to mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect
·      
If the Court grants Defendant’s motion, it should order Defendant
to pay Plaintiff’s attorney’s fees and costs and to file a verified answer
·      
Defendant does not have a meritorious defense as its
unreasonable delay in investigation and withholding of benefits is bad-faith
 
Defendant
filed a reply, maintaining that it is entitled to have the default against it set aside, and to
pursue a defense on the merits, based on both mistake under Code of Civil
Procedure section 473(b) and by the Court’s equitable powers, in the interests
of justice. 
 
II.
ANALYSIS
 
A.    
Legal Standard
 
Section 473, subdivision (b) states in pertinent
part: “The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or
his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other
proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.... Notwithstanding any other
requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application
for relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in
proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to
his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1)
resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which
will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default
judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the court
finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.” (Italics added.) 
 
Section
473, subdivision (b), provides for two distinct types of relief.  “Under
the discretionary relief provision, on a showing of “mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect,” the court has discretion to allow relief from
a “judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against” a party or
his or her attorney. Under the mandatory relief provision, on the other hand,
upon a showing by attorney declaration of “mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect,” the court shall vacate any “resulting default judgment or dismissal
entered.”  The range of attorney conduct for which relief can be granted
in the mandatory provision is broader than that in the discretionary provision,
and includes inexcusable neglect.  But the range of adverse litigation
results from which relief can be granted is narrower. Mandatory relief only
extends to vacating
a default which will result in the entry of a default judgment, a default
judgment, or an entered
dismissal.”  (Leader v. Health Industries of America, Inc.
(2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 603, 615–616.)  ¿¿ 
 
To gain the
statutory benefits, a party or legal representative must seek such relief
“within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b);
see Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 980 (Rappleyea). 
If relief is sought after the six-month period, a trial court may still vacate
a default on equitable grounds even if statutory relief is unavailable.¿ (Olivera
v. Grace (1942) 19 Cal.2d 570, 575-76.)¿ “One ground for equitable relief
is extrinsic mistake—a term broadly applied when circumstances extrinsic to the
litigation have unfairly cost a party a hearing on the merits.” (Rappleyea,
supra, 8 Cal.4th at p. 981.)¿  
¿ 
A
party seeking equitable relief on the grounds of extrinsic fraud or mistake
must show the following three elements: (1) a meritorious defense; (2) a
satisfactory excuse for not presenting the defense in the first place; and (3)
diligence in seeking to set aside the default judgment once discovered. (Ibid.)
Extrinsic mistake “is not so much the fraud or other misconduct of one of the
parties as it is the excusable neglect of the defaulting party to appear and
present his claim or defense. If that neglect results in an unjust judgment,
without a fair adversary hearing, the basis for equitable relief on the ground
of extrinsic mistake is present.” (Mechling v. Asbestos Defendants (2018)
29 Cal.App.5th 1241, 1246.) “When a default judgment has been obtained,
equitable relief may be given only in exceptional circumstances.” (Ibid.,
emphasis in original.)  
“When evaluating a motion to set aside a default
judgment on equitable grounds, the court must weigh the reasonableness of the
conduct of the moving party in light of the extent of the prejudice to the
responding party.” (Lasalle v. Vogel (2019) 36 Cal.App.5th 127, 139,
internal quotations omitted.) Where there is lack of prejudice to the opposing
party, such factor weighs in favor of setting aside default and default
judgment. (Gray v. Lawlor (1907) 151 Cal. 352, 357.)  
“It is well settled that appellate courts have always
been and are favorably disposed toward such action upon the part of the trial
courts as will permit, rather than prevent, the adjudication of legal
controversies upon their merits.” (Benjamin v. Dalmo Mfg. Co. (1948) 31
Cal.2d 523, 525.) “[T]he law strongly favors trial and disposition on the
merits, [and] any doubts in applying section 473 must be resolved in favor of
the party seeking relief from default.” (Shapell Socal Rental Properties,
LLC v. Chico’s FAS, Inc., supra, 85 Cal.App.5th 198, 212.)
“An order denying relief is therefore scrutinized more carefully than an order
granting relief and permitting trial on the merits.” (Id. at p. 213.)
“[T]he provisions of section 473 . . . are to be liberally construed and sound
policy favors the determination of actions on their merits.” (Id. at p.
212, citation and internal quotations omitted.)  
B.    
Discussion 
 
Defendant American
Family moves to set aside default on the grounds that mistake, inadvertence, surprise, and/or excusable neglect
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b) has resulted in a default
being entered, and further brings this motion under the Court’s equitable
powers to set aside the default due to the occurrence of extrinsic fraud or
mistake.
 
The terms “extrinsic fraud” and “extrinsic mistake”
are interpreted broadly, encompassing “almost any set of extrinsic
circumstances which deprive a party of a fair adversary hearing.” (In re
Marriage of Park (1980) 27 Cal.3d 337, 342; Hudson v. Foster (2021)
68 Cal.App.5th 640, 664 (Hudson).) 
 
The
Court will employ the Rappleyea three-part test for equitable
relief.  
 
First
(Meritorious Case): 
Defendant argues it has a meritorious defense to Plaintiff’s causes of action in the Complaint and has attached
a responsive pleading to this motion as required by Section 473(b). (Fitzgerald
Decl., ¶ 14, Ex. E, F.) The meritorious defense requirement for equitable
relief is a lenient requirement. In the context of setting aside default, only
a minimal showing of merit is necessary. (Mechling v. Asbestos Defendants
(2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 1241, 1247.) Defendant asserts that of the seven causes
of action asserted against it, four allege breach of the covenant of good faith
and fair dealing and are duplicative. On that cause of action, Defendant asserts
it will demonstrate with evidence that any alleged delay in investigation was
not for any improper purpose, and that Plaintiff may at best show that the
parties had a genuine dispute as to the value of the claim. Further, Defendant argues
it will show that there was no underlying breach of the insurance contract, as
policy benefits were not improperly withheld - fundamental to a bad faith claim
and critical to a breach of contract claim. Defendant contends that no viable
cause of action for the negligence-based “Negligent Repair” may be asserted by
an insured against an insurer as a matter of law, aside from the fact that Defendant
is not in the business of vehicle repair so as to have “negligently repaired”
Plaintiff’s vehicle as alleged in the Complaint. Finally, Defendant argues there
are no facts pled which will support a cause of action for either negligent or
intentional misrepresentation against Defendant, which is currently vague and
ambiguous as to alleged statements made by American Family to Plaintiff. (See Proposed
Demurrer to Complaint, Fitzgerald Decl., Ex. E.) The Court finds that Defendant
has sufficiently presented a minimal showing of a meritorious defense. 
 
Second
(Satisfactory Excuse):  Defendant argues there is a satisfactory excuse for failing
to present a timely defense. “[E]xtrinsic
fraud and extrinsic mistake are unavailable when a party’s own
negligence allows the fraud or mistake to
occur.” (Kramer v. Traditional Escrow, Inc.
(2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 13, 29, 31 [reversing grant of motion to set aside
default judgment where “any lack of actual notice was due to [defendants’] own
negligence” in failing to apprise plaintiff and the court of correct address
for service]; accord, In re Marriage of Park, supra, 27 Cal.3d at
p. 345 [“a motion to vacate a judgment should not be granted where it is shown
that the party requesting equitable relief has been guilty of inexcusable
neglect”]; see Cruz v. Fagor America, Inc. (2007) 146 Cal.App.4th 488,
503 [“Relief on the ground of extrinsic
fraud or mistake is not available to a
party if that party has been given notice of an action yet fails to appear,
without having been prevented from participating in the action.”].) 
Indeed, one who comes to a court of equity must come with clean hands.  (Farahani
v. San Diego Cmty. Coll. Dist. (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 1486, 1495.) Here, Defendant
contends its agent for
service, CSC, inadvertently directed the Summons and Complaint to the wrong
party, sending it to co-defendant American Honda instead of American Family.
(Kirvan Decl., ¶¶ 5-11.) Defendant provides the declaration of Steve Kirvan,
the Project Manager of CSC’s Legal Department, in support. While Plaintiff
argues that Defendant had actual notice of the lawsuit and provides evidence
that it served Defendant with the Complaint and Summons on March 8, 2024,
Defendant asserts that it was prevented from participating in the action
because it was not aware it was served. Thus, Defendant contends that its
failure to file responsive pleading was not due to their own negligence, but do
to extrinsic mistake made by CSC. Therefore, Defendant has provided a
satisfactory excuse for failing to present a timely defense. 
 
Third (Diligence):  Defendant also argues it was diligent in bringing the motion
to set aside the dismissal once counsel learned of the dismissal. Defendant
asserts defense
counsel filed this motion shortly after discovery of the default on May 1,
2024. Defendant filed this motion on May 22, 2024. The Court finds that
Defendant was diligent in bringing this motion. 
 
In Plaintiff’s opposition, he
argues that if the Court vacates default, Defendant should be ordered to pay Plaintiffs' reasonable attorneys ' fees and costs of $76,230.00
associated with prosecuting this matter against Defendant (including $6,901.50
for opposing Defendant’s Motion to Set Aside Default); and to Defendant should
be ordered to file a verified Answer. However, the Court does not find Plaintiff’s
argument persuasive and does not find any award of fees or costs warranted. Further,
Plaintiff does not provide support for its contention that Defendant must file
a verified answer. Code of Civil Procedure section 473.5 states that Defendant
can serve an answer, motion or other pleading proposed to be filed in the
action. The Court finds that Defendant’s proposed Demurrer and Motion to Strike
is proper.
 
In sum, the Court finds Defendant
qualifies for equitable relief from default.
 
III. DISPOSITION
 

Defendant
American Family Connect Property and Casualty Insurance Company’s motion to set
aside default and for leave to respond to Plaintiff’s Complaint is GRANTED. 
 
Defendant is
ordered to file its proposed Demurrer and Motion to Strike—which is attached in
support of the motion—within five (5) days of the date of this order so that it
becomes an operative pleading in this action. 

 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice. 
 