 Case Number:  24STCV05156    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  73 07/10/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
TKEYAH CAMPBELL v. DARDEN
RESTAURANTS, INC., et al. (24STCV05156)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party: Mark Joseph Valencia (Valencia & Cywinska, ALC)
Counsel for
Defendants/moving party: Jesse Caryl (Bent Caryl & Kroll, LLP)
 
DEFENDANTS’ motion to compel arbitration (filed by Defendants Darden Restaurants,
Inc. and GMRI, Inc. on 6/14/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The Motion to
Compel Arbitration is DENIED.  
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
This action arises out of an employment dispute. On
February 29, 2024, Plaintiff Tkeyah Campbell (“Plaintiff”), filed this action
against Defendants Darden Restaurants, Inc.; GMRI, Inc.; Bernadette Last Name
Unknown; Genesis Last Name Unknown; and Anthony Last Name Unknown (collectively
“Defendants”).
 
Plaintiff brings the following seven causes of
action against Defendants: (1) Hostile Work Environment Racial Harassment in
Violation of Govt. Code §
12940(j); (2) Constructive Discharge
in Violation of Public Policy; (3) Disparate Treatment Racial Discrimination in
Violation of Govt. Code § 12940(a); (4) Retaliation in Violation Govt. Code § 12940(h); (5) Retaliation
in Violation of Labor Code §
1102.5; (6) Failure to Prevent Harassment or Discrimination or Retaliation in
Violation of Govt. Code §
12940(k); and (7) Civil Code §§ 51.7 & 52.
 
The Complaint alleges the following. Plaintiff worked as a
food server for her joint employers, Defendants GMRI and Darden Restaurants, at
the Olive Garden restaurant located at 430 Huntington Drive, Arcadia, CA 91006 from
December 27, 2022 to July 2, 2023. (Compl., ¶ 7.) Plaintiff alleges that over
the course of her employment she experience racial discrimination and
harassment from other employees, including being called racist derogatory names
and being threatened with physical violence based on her race. (Compl., ¶ 9.)
Plaintiff complained to supervisors and management, which she alleges resulted
in her being retaliated against, including being given fewer tables and
customers to serve. (Compl., ¶ 12.) Plaintiff alleges management never
investigated her complaints of racial harassment and she continued to
experience harassment and retaliation, which led to her resignation. (Compl., ¶
17.)
 
On
June 14, 2024, Defendants filed the instant Motion to Compel Arbitration
arguing: Defendants
presented Plaintiff with its Dispute Resolution Process (“DRP”) handbook during
the initial new hire and on-boarding process; Plaintiff acknowledged that she
read and understood the handbook and DRP agreement; and Plaintiff executed an
acknowledgment agreeing to be bound by the DRP.
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff contends the purported arbitration agreement is
unenforceable because Plaintiff did not see the arbitration agreement
 
Defendants
did not file a reply.
 
II.
ANALYSIS
 
A.     Legal Standard
 
A written
agreement where the parties agree to arbitration is valid, enforceable and 
irrevocable
unless there is a contract defense. (C.C.P. § 1281.) “On petition of a party to
an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists, unless it determines that: (a) The right to compel
arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for the
revocation of the agreement.”¿¿(C.C.P. § 1281.2.)  
¿ 
“[T]he
petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by the preponderance of the evidence…”¿¿(Giuliano v. Inland Empire
Personnel, Inc.¿(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.)¿¿“In determining
whether an arbitration agreement applies to a specific dispute, the court may
examine only the agreement itself and the complaint filed by the party refusing
arbitration [citation]. The court should attempt to give effect to the parties'
intentions, in light of the usual and ordinary meaning of the contractual
language and the circumstances under which the agreement was made.”¿¿(Weeks
v. Crow¿(1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 353.) “To determine whether a
contractual arbitration clause requires arbitration of a particular
controversy, the controversy is first identified and the issue is whether that
controversy is within the scope of the contractual arbitration clause.”¿(Titolo¿v.
Cano¿(2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 310, 316.) “Doubts as to whether an arbitration
clause applies to a particular dispute are to be resolved in favor of sending
the parties to arbitration. The court should order them to arbitrate unless it
is clear that the arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to cover the
dispute.”¿(California Correctional Peace Officers¿Ass'n¿v. State¿(2006) 142
Cal.App.4th 198, 205.)¿¿ 
¿¿ 
There is
strong public policy in favor of both arbitration of disputes and resolving any
doubts concerning the scope of arbitrable disputes in favor of arbitration.¿(Moncharsh¿v.¿Heily¿&¿Blase¿(1992) 3
Cal.4th 1, 9.) Arbitration agreements should be liberally interpreted, and
arbitration should be ordered unless the agreement clearly does not apply to
the dispute in question.¿¿(Vianna¿v. Doctors’ Management Co.¿(1994) 27
Cal.App.4th 1186, 1189.)¿ 
 
B.     Request for
Judicial Notice
 
Defendants
request the Court take judicial notice of the Employment Arbitration Rules and Mediation Procedures of the
American Arbitration Association (the “AAA Rules”).
 
Evidence Code
§452(h) provides that a court may take judicial notice of “[f]acts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.”  Additionally, “a
court may take judicial notice of the fact of a document’s recordation, the
date the document was recorded and executed, the parties to the transaction
reflected in a recorded document, and the document’s legally operative
language, assuming there is no genuine dispute regarding the document’s
authenticity.”  (Fontenot v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 256,
265.) Moreover, “[f]rom this, the court may deduce and rely upon the legal
effect of the recorded document, when that effect is clear from its face.” (Id.) 
 
The Court grants Defendants request for judicial notice.
 
C.     Existence of
an Agreement to Arbitrate
 
Under California law, “[t]he burden of persuasion is always
on the moving party to prove the existence of an arbitration agreement with the
opposing party by a preponderance of the evidence ….” (Gamboa v. Northeast
Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 164-166.) 
 
“However, the
burden of production may shift in a three-step process.” (Gamboa, supra,
72 Cal.App.5th at p. 165.) 
 
“First, the
moving party bears the burden of producing ‘prima facie evidence of a written
agreement to arbitrate the controversy.’ [Citation.]” (Gamboa, supra,
72 Cal.App.5th at p. 165.) “The moving party ‘can meet its initial burden by
attaching to the [motion or] petition a copy of the arbitration agreement
purporting to bear the [opposing party’s] signature.’ [Citation.]” (Ibid.)
“Alternatively, the moving party can meet its burden by setting forth the
agreement’s provisions in the motion.” (Ibid.) “For this step, ‘it is
not necessary to follow the normal procedures of document authentication.’
[Citation.] If the moving party meets its initial prima facie burden and the
opposing party does not dispute the existence of the arbitration agreement,
then nothing more is required for the moving party to meet its burden of
persuasion.” (Ibid.) 
 
Defendants
assert that Plaintiff was
presented with the Dispute Resolution Process (“DRP”) handbook during her initial
new hire and on-boarding process. Defendants contend that the DRP expressly
provides that employment-related disputes, including claims for discrimination,
are subject to mandatory and binding arbitration. Defendants further assert
that the DRP is a valid and enforceable agreement, and dictates this matter be
compelled to binding arbitration.
 
Defendants attached a copy of the DRP to the instant motion. (Baughn
Decl., Ex. F.) However, the Court notes that the last page of the DRP titled
“Dispute Resolution Process Acknowledgement”, does not include Plaintiff’s
signature. (Baughn Decl., Ex. F, p. 17.) The Employee Signature line is left
blank. 
 
However, Defendants argue in their motion that Plaintiff acknowledged
that she would be bound by the DRP agreement. During Plaintiff’s on-boarding
process, Defendants assert Plaintiff signed an acknowledgement that states:
 
“This agreement contains the requirements, obligations, procedures
and benefits of the Dispute Resolution Process (DRP). I acknowledge that I have
received and/or have had the opportunity to read this arbitration agreement. I
understand that this arbitration agreement requires that disputes that involve
the matters subject to the agreement be submitted to mediation or arbitration
pursuant to the arbitration agreement rather than to a judge or jury in court.
I agree as a condition of my employment, to submit any eligible disputes I may
have to the DRP and to abide by the provisions outlined in the DRP. I
understand this includes, for example, claims under state and federal laws
relating to harassment or discrimination, as well as other employment-related
claims as defined by the DRP. Finally, I understand that the Company is equally
bound to all of the provisions of the DRP.”
 
(Baughn Decl.,
Ex. E.) 
 
Defendants attached the acknowledgment which bears Plaintiff’s
electronic signature. Thus, Defendants have met their initial burden by attaching
the DRP acknowledgment purportedly bearing Plaintiff’s signature. Under the prima facie standard articulated in Gamboa, the
Court finds that the Defendants have met their burden of producing prima facie
evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the controversy between them and
Plaintiff.  
 
“If the
moving party meets its initial prima facie burden and the opposing party
disputes the agreement, then in the second step, the opposing party bears the
burden of producing evidence to challenge the authenticity of the agreement.” (Gamboa,
supra, 72 Cal.App.5th at p. 165.) “The opposing party can do this in
several ways. For example, the opposing party may testify under oath or
declare under penalty of perjury that the party never saw or does not
remember seeing the agreement, or that the party never signed or does
not remember signing the agreement.” (Ibid. [emphasis added].) 
 
For example,
in the 2021 case Gamboa, the Court of Appeal found that the plaintiff
“met her burden on the second step by filing an opposing declaration, saying
she did not recall the agreement and would not have signed it if she had been
aware of it: ‘I do not remember these documents at all .... Had I been made
aware of the existence of an arbitration agreement, and been explained its
provisions, I would not have signed any such documents.’” (Gamboa, supra,
72 Cal.App.5th at p. 167.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff
argues that she did not see the DRP at any time prior to filing this motion. Plaintiff
declares the following under the penalty of perjury. “During my on-boarding with Olive Garden, which was handled
electronically, I clicked on many documents during the on-boarding phase. Per
Exhibit C of the Declaration of Amanda Baughn, which I am attaching as Exhibit
2, there is an activity report with dates and times that I purportedly signed
documents.” (Campbell’s Decl., ¶ 3.)  Plaintiff further declares: 
 
“15 rows from
the top is an item entitled: “Dispute Resolution Process Book – English &
Spanish Saved.” The date/time associated with reviewing this item is 7:45 pm,
December 19, 2022. The next item reviewed was “Photo/Video Consent &
Release – English and Spanish Saved” at 7:46 pm, December 19, 2022. Literally
only one minute elapsed between the “Dispute Resolution Process Book” and
“Photo/Video Consent and Release.” This supports the fact that I did not review
the 17 Page Dispute Resolution Process Arbitration Agreement. If I were to
review a 17-page contract, there is no way I would read, review, and comprehend
it in less than a minute.” (Campbell’s Decl., ¶
4.) 
Moreover, Plaintiff declares that
she tried clicking on the link to view the DRP but the link did not work, so
she never saw or reviewed the DRP. (Campbell’s Decl., ¶ 9.)
 
In Gamboa,
the Court of Appeal held it did not need to “decide whether [the plaintiff]
challenged the authenticity of her purported signature on the arbitration
agreement” because “[i]t was enough that [the plaintiff] challenged the
authenticity of the agreement by saying under penalty of perjury that she did
not remember it.” (Gamboa, supra, 72 Cal.App.5th at p.
168.)  
 
Here, the
Court finds that Plaintiff has met her burden of producing evidence challenging
the authenticity of the DRP by declaring under penalty of perjury that she was
not given the opportunity to read the DRP and did not in fact see or review it.  
 
“If the
opposing party meets its burden of producing evidence, then in the third step,
the moving party must establish with admissible evidence a valid arbitration
agreement between the parties. The burden of proving the agreement by a
preponderance of the evidence remains with the moving party.” (Gamboa, supra,
72 Cal.App.5th at pp. 165–166.) In Gamboa, the court stated “[i]n sum, once Gamboa produced evidence challenging the
authenticity of the purported arbitration agreement, the Clinic was required
to rebut the challenge by establishing by a preponderance of the evidence that
the agreement was valid. The Clinic did not have to authenticate Gamboa's
signature on the arbitration agreement. The Clinic could have met its burden in
other ways, including a declaration from the Clinic’s custodian of records.
But proferring [sic] no admissible evidence was insufficient.” (Gamboa, supra,
72 Cal.App.5th at p. 171.) 
 
Here,
Defendants do not produce any evidence to rebut Plaintiff’s challenge to the
DRP. Defendants did not file a reply or attempt to establish that Plaintiff had
seen and signed the DRP. 
 
Thus,
the Court finds that the Defendants have not met
their burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence the validity of the DRP.  
 
For the reasons set forth above, the Court denies the motion.
 
III. DISPOSITION
 
The
Motion to Compel Arbitration is DENIED.  
 
Moving parties to
give notice.  