 Case Number:  23STCV16156    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  73 07/10/24
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding 
 
CARTER v. NEIGHBORHOOD HOUSING
SERVICES OF LOS ANGELES (23STCV16156)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party: Orlando Cabanday (Cabanday Law Group)
Counsel for
Defendant/moving party:  Nicole Sheth (Kaufman
Borgeest & Ryan LLP)
 
DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF’S FURTHER
RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET ONE (filed 05/06/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant’s
Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s further response to Requests for Production of
Documents, Set One is GRANTED. Plaintiff shall provide verified responses
within 30 days. 
 
The Court
further GRANTS Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions against Plaintiff in
the reduced amount of $1,590.
Said monetary sanctions are to be paid to counsel for Defendant within 30 days
of the date of this order. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On
July 11, 2023, Plaintiff Moieshai Carter (“Plaintiff”) filed this employment action
against Defendant Neighborhood Housing Services of Los Angeles County, a
California Corporation, doing business as NHS LA County (“NHS” or “Defendant”).

 
Plaintiff
alleges the following causes of action:
 
C/A
1: Disability Discrimination 
C/A
2: Racial Discrimination
C/A
3: Sexual Discrimination
C/A
4: Retaliation 
C/A
5: Wrongful Termination in violation of Public Policy
C/A
6: Hostile Work Environment – Harassment
C/A
7: Failure to Provide Employment File
C/A
8: Unpaid Wages
C/A
9: Failure to Pay Overtime
C/A
10: Failure to Provide Rest Periods
C/A
11: Failure to Provide Off-Duty Meal Period
C/A
12: Failure to Furnish Accurate Wage Statements
C/A
13: Waiting Time Penalties
 
The Complaint alleges that in October 2012, NHS hired Plaintiff as
a lending specialist. (Compl., ¶ 7.) Plaintiff worked under the management of
its Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, JP Veen. (Ibid.) Plaintiff
continuously worked for NHS until November 2022 when she was wrongfully
terminated while on disability. (Compl., ¶ 8.) Plaintiff alleges multiple
violations of California’s Labor Code and FEHA by NHS.
 
On May 6, 2024, Defendant NHS filed the instant Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s
Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, and request
for sanctions. No opposition was filed. 
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.     Meet and
Confer Requirement 
 
A motion to compel further discovery responses
must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration stating “facts showing a
reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue
presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2031.310, subd. (b)(2);
2016.040.)¿ 
 
Here, Defendant’s counsel declares that a meet and confer
letter was sent to Plaintiff’s counsel on April 29, 2023 explaining why the
discovery responses were deficient and requesting supplemental responses. (Whang
Decl., ¶ 7.) Defendant did
not receive a response. (Id., ¶ 8.) The Court finds
that counsel has satisfied the meet and confer requirements under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2031.310, subdivision (b)(2). 
 
B.     Discussion
 
Defendant moves
to compel Plaintiff’s further responses to Requests for Production of Documents,
Set One.
 
Under CCP §
2017.010, “any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged,
that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action..., if
the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  The Section
specifically provides that “[d]iscovery may relate to the claim or defense of
the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action,” and that
discovery “may be obtained of the identity and location of persons having
knowledge of any discoverable matter, as well as of the existence, description,
nature, custody, condition and location of any document, electronically stored
information, tangible thing, or land or other property.” 
 
CCP § 2031.310(a) provides that a party demanding a document
inspection may move for an order compelling further responses to the demand if
the demanding party deems that: 
“(1)  
A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete. 
 
(2)   A representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive. 
 
(3)   An objection in the response is without merit or too
general.”   
 
Under CCP §
2031.310 (b)(1), “The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the demand.”   
 
“In the more
specific context of a demand for production of a tangible thing, the party who
asks the trial court to compel production must show “good cause” for the
request—but unless there is a legitimate privilege issue or claim of attorney
work product, that burden is met simply by a fact-specific showing of
relevance.” (TBG Ins. Services Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96
Cal.App.4th 443, 448.)
 
It is not
necessary for the motion to show that the material sought will be admissible in
evidence. “Good cause” may be found to justify discovery where specific facts
show that the discovery is necessary for effective trial preparation or to
prevent surprise at trial. (See Associated Brewers Dist. Co. v. Superior
Court (1967) 65 Cal.2d 583, 586-588; see also Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2017.010,
2019.030(a)(1) (Information is discoverable if it is itself admissible in
evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence and it is not unreasonably cumulative or duplicative, or is
obtainable from some other source that is more convenient, less burdensome, or
less expensive.); Lipton v. Superior Court (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 1599,
1611-1612 (noting a party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not
privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending
action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence).) 
 
If a timely
motion to compel has been filed, the burden is on the responding party to
justify any objection or failure fully to answer. (Coy v. Superior Court
(1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220–221 [addressing a motion to compel further responses
to interrogatories]; see also Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000)
22 Cal.4th 245, 255.) 
 
Furthermore,
to the extent there is any doubt in whether these records should be
discoverable, California’s liberal approach to discovery provides that doubt
should be resolved in favor of permitting discovery. (Pacific Tel. &
Tel. Co. v. Superior Court (1970) 2 Cal.3d 161, 173.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff responded to every
Request for Production with the same objection: 
 
“Plaintiff
objects to this request to the extent that it seeks confidential, trade secret,
proprietary, financial, and/or commercially sensitive information that is
privileged and/or confidential and protected from disclosure by applicable law.
Plaintiff objects to this request on the ground that the information sought is
in the possession of, known to, or otherwise equally available to the
propounding party. Plaintiff objects to this request on the grounds that it
seeks documents that are neither relevant to the subject matter of this action
nor reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
Plaintiff objects to this request on the ground that it invades the right of
privacy guaranteed to whom it seeks information. Plaintiff objects to this
request to the extent it seeks information protected from disclosure by the
attorney work-product rule. Plaintiff objects on the grounds that the Request
is vague and ambiguous.”
 
Defendant asserts that Plaintiff’s boilerplate objections are too
general and unmeritorious because they do not state how or why Plaintiff
believes Defendant’s requests are not reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence or in what way they are confidential, vague or
ambiguous. The Court agrees, and notes that Plaintiff has failed to oppose the
instant motion. Accordingly, the Court grants Defendant’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s
further responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One. 
 
C.     Sanctions
 
“A request for a sanction shall, in the notice of
motion, identify every person, party, and attorney against whom the sanction is
sought, and specify the type of sanction sought. The notice of motion shall be
supported by a memorandum of points and authorities, and accompanied by a
declaration setting forth facts supporting the amount of any monetary sanction
sought.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.040.) 
 
Sanctions
may be imposed for misuse of discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., section 2023.030, subd. (a).
) Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery
constitutes a misuse of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., section
2023.010, subd. (d).) Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348 provides that a court
may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a
motion to compel discovery even if no opposition was filed.  
 
Here, the
Court finds that Plaintiff engaged in the misuse of the discovery process by
failing to make good faith efforts to respond to Defendant’s Requests for
Production of Documents, Set One. Defendant requests $2,650 in sanctions for
counsel’s work on this motion, including 5 hours spent on the instant motion
and an anticipated 5 additional hours to review the opposition, prepare a reply
and appear at the hearing. The Court finds sanctions are warranted. However, since no opposition was filed, the Court awards
sanctions in the reduced total amount of $1,590 (6 hours of attorney time at
the billing rate of $265 an hour.)
 
III. DISPOSITION
 

Defendant’s
Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s further response to Requests for Production of
Documents, Set One is GRANTED. Plaintiff shall provide verified responses
within 30 days. 
 
The
Court further GRANTS Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions against
Plaintiff in the reduced amount of $1,590.
Said monetary sanctions are to be paid to counsel for Defendant within 30 days
of the date of this order. 