  Case Number:  22STCV01204    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  73 7/10/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
JAMES CHEUNG v. CHARLES CHEUNG, et
al. (22STCV01204)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/moving party:  David King (King
Cheng Miller & Jin, LLP)
Counsel for
Defendants/opposing party:  Kousha
Berokim (Berokim Law)
 
PLAINTIFF’S motion for AN ORDER (1)
GRANTING TERMINATING, ISSUE AND/OR EVIDENTIARY SANCTIONS AGAINST CHARLES CHEUNG
AND PINNACLELGS, INC., OR ALTERNATIVELY (2) COMPELLING CHARLES CHEUNG AND
PINNACLELGS, INC. TO COMPLY WITH THIS COURT’S ORDER OF MARCH 26, 2024; AND (3)
MONETARLY SANCTIONS AGAINST CHARLES CHEUNG, PINNACLELGS, INC. AND THEIR ATTORNEY
(filed on 05/06/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Sanctions against
Defendants Charles Cheung and PinnacleLGS, Inc. is GRANTED in part as follows: 
(1) DENIED as
to terminating, issue and evidentiary sanctions; 
(2)
MOOT as to an order compelling Defendants to comply with this Court’s March 26,
2024 order; and 
(3) GRANTED
as to monetary sanctions in the amount of $4,500. 
 
Defendants Charles
Cheung and Pinnacle LGS are ordered to pay the additional sanctions to
Plaintiff, by and through counsel of record, in the amount of $4,500, within thirty
(30) days. Defendants
are also ordered to pay the prior sanctions award entered on March 26, 2024, in the amount
of $4,500, within
thirty (30) days. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On January 12,
2022, Plaintiff James Cheung (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants
Charles Cheung, Wenjun Long and PinnacleLGS, Inc. Plaintiff’s Complaint asserts
causes of action for: (1) Dissolution of Partnership; (2) Accounting; (3)
Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (4) Fraud; and (5) Breach of Contract.  
 
The Complaint alleges that this case is “about
the Dissolution
of a Fifty/Fifty (50/50) Partnership and about an Accounting arising out of the
Dissolution of that Partnership. The Partnership started off as a series of
Joint Ventures that involved acquiring improved real properties that have the
land value potential and that are to be demolished and developed into new
multi-family projects. Plaintiff was to fund the down payment, and Defendant Charles
Cheung was to fund some down payment and the monthly mortgages of the Purchase
Money Loans.” (Compl., ¶ 7.)
 
On March 16,
2022, a Cross-Complaint was filed by Pinnacle Wilton LLC, Pinnacle Normandie
LLC, Pinnacle LGS, Inc., Charles Cheung and Wejun Long against Cross-Defendants
BB Wells Investments, Inc. and James Cheung. The Cross-Complaint asserts causes
of action for: (1) Usury and (2) Quiet Title.
 
On May 6, 2024,
Plaintiff filed this Motion for Sanctions against Defendants Charles Cheung and
Pinnacle LGS, Inc. seeking:
·      
An order (a) granting terminating sanctions against Charles and
PinnacleLGS, (b) striking their Answer to Plaintiff’s Complaint, and (c)
entering default judgment against Charles and Pinnacle LGS on Plaintiff’s
Complaint and their Cross-Complaint, because they failed to provide any
discovery responses in response to the Court’s Order granting Plaintiff’s six
motions to compel further responses.
·      
In the alternative, an order granting issue sanctions against
Charles and PinnacleLGS, precluding them from presenting any evidence in
opposition to the claims being asserted in Plaintiff’s Complaint or any
evidence in support of their Cross-Complaint, and designating the following
facts as established: 
o    James and Charles were engaged in a joint
venture. 
o   That the loan
made by James Cheung alleged in Cross-Complainants’ CrossComplaint was made in
the course of and in furtherance of a partnership and joint venture between
James Cheung and Charles Cheung, and is not usurious, and/or 
o   Charles
breached his fiduciary duties to James in connection with their joint venture.
·      
In the alternative, an order granting evidentiary sanctions
against Charles and Pinnacle LGS, precluding them from (a) introducing at the
time of trial any evidence in support of their affirmative defenses to
Plaintiff’s Complaint; (b) introducing any evidence to rebut the claims being
asserted against them in Plaintiff’s Complaint; or (c) introducing any evidence
in support of their Cross-Complaint. 
·      
Awarding Plaintiff monetary sanctions against Charles, Pinnacle LGS,
and their attorney, Kousha Berokim, jointly and severally, in the amount of
$7,200.00 for their misuse of the discovery process, as well as enforcing the
prior sanctions award of $4,500, entered on March 26, 2024, payable within ten
days of the hearing on this Motion.
·      
On March 26, 2024, this Court granted Plaintiff’s six discovery
motions against Charles and Pinnacle LGS, requiring that: 
o   (a) Charles
serve verified responses to Plaintiff’s (i) Demand for Production of Documents,
Set One, and (ii) Special Interrogatories, Set One, within thirty days, and pay
$500.00 in monetary sanctions. Charles and his attorney have ignored the
Court’s order. 
o   (b) Pinnacle LGS
serve verified responses to Plaintiff’s (i) Demand for Production of Documents,
Set One, (ii) Special Interrogatories, Set One, (iii) Requests for Admission,
Set One, and (iv) Form Interrogatories, Set Two, within thirty days, and pay
$4,000.00 in sanctions. Pinnacle LGS and its attorney have also ignored the
Court’s Order. 
·      
Code of Civil Procedure sections 2023.010 and 2023.030 permits a
court to award terminating, issue, evidentiary, and/or monetary sanctions
against any party that disobeys a court order. 
·      
Plaintiff has incurred over $7,200.00 in legal fees in bringing
this Motion
Defendants filed an opposition, arguing:

·      
Defendants have now served verified
discovery responses without objections, thus the motion should be denied.
·      
Plaintiff also failed to meet and confer
prior to filing this motion.
Plaintiff filed a reply asserting:
·      
Defendants’ excuse for violating the
Court’s order for sixty days has no merit. Defendants simply assert that
Charles was in Southeast Asia.
·      
Plaintiff was not required to meet and
confer prior to filing this motion.
·      
The discovery responses that Defendants
served are not code compliant. 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.     Legal
Standard 
A misuse of the discovery process is failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010,
subd. (d).)  A misuse of the discovery process also includes disobeying a
court order to provide discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (g).) A
court may impose issue sanctions, evidence sanctions, or monetary sanctions
against a party engaging in misuse of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2023.030.) Where an issue sanction is imposed, “designated facts shall be taken
as established in the action in accordance with the claim of the party
adversely affected by the misuse of the discovery process.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2023.030, subd. (b).) An issue sanction may also involve “any party engaging in
misuse of the discovery process from supporting or opposing designated claims
or defenses.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (b).) An evidence sanction
involves “an order prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process from introducing designated matters in evidence.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (c).)  
A terminating sanction may be imposed by the court by one of the
following orders: (1) an order striking out the pleadings or parts of the
pleadings of any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process; (2) an
order staying further proceedings by that party until an order for discovery is
obeyed; (3) an order dismissing the action, or any part of the action, of that
party; or (4) an order rending judgment by default against that party. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (d)(1)-(4).)  
“The discovery statutes evince an incremental approach to
discovery sanctions, starting with monetary sanctions and ending with the
ultimate sanction of termination.” (Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009)
174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992.)  “Discovery sanctions should be appropriate to
the dereliction, and should not exceed that which is required to protect the
interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery.” (Ibid.) “[C]continuing
misuses of the discovery process warrant incrementally harsher sanctions until
the sanction is reached that will curb the abuse.”  (Ibid.) Where
discovery violations are “willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the
evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with
discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate
sanction.” (Ibid.)  A trial court has broad discretion to impose
discovery sanctions, but two facts are generally a prerequisite to the
imposition of nonmonetary sanctions. (Biles v. Exxon Mobil Corp. (2004)
124 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1327.) Where discovery sanctions are requested against a
party, there must be a failure to comply with a court order and the failure
must be willful. (Ibid.)   
“A decision to order terminating sanctions should not be made
lightly.” (Creed-21 v. City of Wildomar (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 690, 702.)
A trial court’s order to impose terminating sanctions will be reversed only if
it “was arbitrary, capricious, or whimsical.” (Ibid.) Trial courts have
properly imposed terminating sanctions when parties have willfully disobeyed
one or more discovery orders. (Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014)
223 Cal.App.4th 377, 390.) Terminating sanctions are warranted when a party’s
lack of compliance with the discovery process has caused the opposing party
prejudice. (Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc., supra, 174
Cal.App.4th 967, 989.) 
B.     Discussion
 
Plaintiff moves for terminating, issue and/or evidentiary
sanctions against Defendants on the grounds that Defendants failed to comply
with the Court’s March 26, 2024 Order granting Plaintiff’s requests for further
discovery responses. In the alternative, Plaintiff seeks an order compelling
Defendants to comply with the Court’s March 26, 2024 order. Plaintiff also
seeks monetary sanctions.  
Plaintiff asserts that Defendants
violated the Court’s March 26, 2024 order granting Plaintiff’s Motions
to Compel Further Discovery Responses and Plaintiff’s request for sanctions. The
Court ordered “compliance with discovery orders and payment of sanctions (total
$4,500 against both Defendants and their counsel) to Plaintiff’s counsel within
30 days.” (Court’s 03/26/24 Minute Order, p. 5.) However, at the time that
Plaintiff filed the instant Motion, Plaintiff asserts that Defendants have
failed to serve supplemental discovery responses or pay the sanctions. 
In opposition, Defendants argue the motion should be denied
because Defendants have complied with
the Court’s March 26, 2024 Order. Defendants assert that on June 26, 2024, they
served verified discovery responses without objections. Defendants also contend
that Plaintiff should have met and conferred prior to filing this Motion, but
failed to do so. 
In reply, Plaintiff asserts that
Plaintiff was not required to meet and confer prior to filing this Motion. The
Court agrees. Defendants’ citation to Code
of Civil Procedure section 2023.010 is misplaced as it does not require the
parties to meet and confer prior to filing a motion for sanctions for failing
to comply with a court order. 
In Plaintiff’s reply, he also raises arguments that
Defendants’ supplemental responses that were served on June 26, 2024 are not
code-compliant. However, since these arguments are raised for the first time in
the reply, Defendants have not been afforded an opportunity to respond to these
arguments. The purpose of a reply brief is to address arguments made in the
Opposition; it may not be used to raise new arguments, present new authorities,
or introduce new evidence. Points raised for the first time in a reply brief
ordinarily will not be considered because such consideration would either
deprive respondent of an opportunity to counter the argument or require the
effort and delay of additional brief by permission. (See, e.g., Marriage of
Khera & Sameer (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 1467, 1477 ("Obvious reasons
of fairness militate against consideration of an issue raised initially in the
reply brief[.]") Thus, the Court does not address whether Defendants’
supplemental responses are code-compliant. 

 
The Court
finds that terminating, issue and evidence sanctions are not appropriate here
because Defendants have served the missing supplemental responses. However, the
Court also finds that Defendants engaged in discovery abuse by delaying the
supplemental responses and refusing to pay sanctions as ordered. The Court
ordered that supplemental discovery responses and sanctions were due 30 days
after the March 26, 2024 order was issued. Defendants had no reasonable basis
for delaying the response and refusing to pay sanctions.  
 
Therefore,
the Court finds that additional monetary sanctions are warranted against
Defendants. The Court grants Plaintiff additional sanctions of $4,500 for 10
hours of attorney time at a rate of $450 per hour. These sanctions are imposed
jointly and severally against Defendants Charles Cheung, Pinnacle LGS and their
counsel.
 
In sum, terminating, issue and evidentiary sanctions are DENIED.
Because Defendants have served the missing supplemental discovery responses,
the request for an order compelling Defendants to comply with the Court’s order
is MOOT. 
 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against Defendants Charles
Cheung, Pinnacle LGS and their counsel, jointly and severally. Defendants Charles
Cheung and Pinnacle LGS are ordered to pay the additional sanctions to
Plaintiff, by and through counsel of record, in the amount of $4,500, within thirty
(30) days. Defendants
are also ordered to pay the prior sanctions award, in the
amount of $4,500, entered
on March 26, 2024, within thirty (30) days. 
 

 II. DISPOSITION
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Sanctions against Defendants Charles Cheung and
Pinnacle LGS, Inc. is GRANTED in part as follows: 
(1)
DENIED as to terminating, issue and evidentiary sanctions; 
(2) MOOT as
to an order compelling Defendants to comply with this Court’s March 26, 2024
order; and 
(3)
GRANTED as to monetary sanctions in the amount of $4,500. 
 
Defendants
Charles Cheung and Pinnacle LGS are ordered to pay the additional sanctions to
Plaintiff, by and through counsel of record, in the amount of $4,500, within thirty
(30) days. Defendants are also ordered to pay the prior sanctions award
entered on March 26, 2024, in the amount
of $4,500,  within thirty (30) days. 
 
 
 