  Case Number:  PC058369    Hearing Date:   February 20, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F-43
Date: 2-20-24
Case # PC058369,
Erik L. Lassman vs. Dorene Robinson
Trial Date: N/A
 
SPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKE COMPLAINT PURSUANT TO CCP §
425.16
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
and Cross-Defendant DeWelt, LLC
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant and Cross-Complainant Road Runner Land & Homes, LLC
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Cross-Defendant
DeWelt is requesting that the Court strike Cross-Complainant’s cross-complaint
 
RULING: Denied
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
 
On October 17,
2023, Cross-Complainant Road Runner Land & Homes, LLC (Road Runner) filed a
cross-complaint against Cross-Defendant DeWelt, LLC (DeWelt) with two causes of
action for Cancellation of Instrument and Conversion. 
 
On November 4,
2021, this Court entered an Order After Judgment which directed Road Runner to
convey the subject property to DeWelt. On February 9, 2022, Road Runner
conveyed the property to DeWelt, which then conveyed the property to a
McConnell on the very same day for just $10,000, which Road Runner alleges was
well below market value.
 
The Court of
Appeal later reversed the default judgment as to Road Runner. This also reversed
the Order After Judgment for the conveyance to DeWelt. Road Runner filed its
cross-complaint in order to resolve any clouds on title and to be reimbursed
for property that it alleges was converted after the property was conveyed to
DeWelt.
 
Cross-Defendant’s
Request for Judicial Notice: DeWelt has requested that the Court take judicial
notice of documents from Nevada’s Secretary of State and Nevada revised
statutes, as well as two deeds. The Court grants these requests.
 
Cross-Complainant’s
Evidentiary Objections:
            
Declaration
of Erik Lassman
                        Sustained: 1, 2, 3, 4,
5, 6, 7
                        Overruled: None
 
            Declaration of Christina Oronsaye
                        Sustained: 8, 9
                        Overruled: None
 
ANALYSIS
 
CCP § 425.16
(b)(1), the anti-SLAPP statute, provides: “A cause of action against a person
arising from any act of that person in furtherance of the person’s right of
petition or free speech under the United States or California Constitution in
connection with a public issue shall be subject to a special motion to strike,
unless the court determines that the plaintiff has established that there is a
probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim.” 
 
The protected
conduct is defined under CCP § 425.16 (e) (1) –(4) which states: “As used in
this section, ‘act in furtherance of a person’s right of petition or free
speech under the United States or California Constitution in connection with a
public issue’ includes: (1) any written or oral statement or writing made
before a legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official
proceeding authorized by law, (2) any written or oral statement or writing made
in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a legislative,
executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding authorized by
law, (3) any written or oral statement or writing made in a place open to the
public or a public forum in connection with an issue of public interest, or (4)
any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of
petition or the constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public
issue or an issue of public interest.”  
 
Therefore,
regardless of the label assigned to a cause of action, “[i]f the supporting
allegations include conduct furthering the defendant's exercise of the
constitutional rights of free speech or petition, the pleaded cause of action
‘arises from’ protected activity, at least in part, and is subject to [a]
special motion to strike.” (Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376 at
381- 382 (Baral) quote marks omitted.) 
 
“Resolution of
an anti-SLAPP motion involves two steps. First, the defendant must establish
that the challenged claim arises from activity protected by section 425.16. If
the defendant makes the required showing, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to
demonstrate the merit of the claim by establishing a probability of success. We
have described this second step as a “summary-judgment-like procedure.” The
court does not weigh evidence or resolve conflicting factual claims. Its
inquiry is limited to whether the plaintiff has stated a legally sufficient
claim and made a prima facie factual showing sufficient to sustain a favorable
judgment. It accepts the plaintiff’s evidence as true, and evaluates the
defendant’s showing only to determine if it defeats the plaintiff’s claim as a
matter of law. Claims with the requisite minimal merit may proceed.” (Baral
at 384-85, citations omitted.) 
 
First
Step 
 
“To prevail on
an anti-SLAPP motion, the movant must first make ‘a threshold showing the
challenged cause of action’ arises from an act in furtherance of the right of
petition or free speech in connection with a public issue.” (Varian Medical
Systems, Inc. v. Delfino (2005) 35 Cal.4th 180, 192.) “A claim arises from
protected activity when that activity underlies or forms the basis for the
claim.” (Park v. Board of Trustees of California State University (2017)
2 Cal.5th 1057, 1062.) 
 
The Supreme
Court has noted:¿¿ 
 
Critically, “the defendant’s act
underlying the plaintiff’s cause of action must itself have been an act in
furtherance of the right of petition or free speech.” [Citations.] “[T]he mere
fact that an action was filed after protected activity took place does not mean
the action arose from that activity for the purposes of the anti-SLAPP
statute.” [Citations.] Instead, the focus is on determining what “the
defendant’s activity [is] that gives rise to his or her asserted liability—and
whether that activity constitutes protected speech or petitioning.” [Citation.]
“The only means specified in section 425.16 by which a moving defendant can
satisfy the [‘arising from’] requirement is to demonstrate that the defendant’s
conduct by which plaintiff claims to have been injured falls within one of the
four categories described in subdivision (e)....” [Citation.] In short, in
ruling on an anti-SLAPP motion, courts should consider the elements of the
challenged claim and what actions by the defendant supply those elements and
consequently form the basis for liability.¿ 
 
(Id. at
p. 1063.)¿ 
 
First, the
complaint at issue is actually a cross-complaint. Though “a cross-complaint may
be subject to an anti-SLAPP motion based on the plaintiff’s right to petition,”
it should be noted that “such a cross-complaint must allege a cause of action
arising from the plaintiff’s act of filing the complaint itself.” (See Joslin
v. Third Laguna Hills Mutual (2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 366, 371-372.) Road
Runner’s cross-complaint does not arise from a petitioning activity; rather, it
arises from the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions as the
original complaint. (See Kajima Engineering and Construction, Inc. v. City
of Los Angeles (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 921, 933-934.) Because it does not
arise from petitioning activity, then it would not fall under the purview of
the Anti-SLAPP statute.
 
Furthermore,
neither of Road Runner’s causes of action, Cancellation of Instrument and
Conversion, affect or challenge DeWelt’s ability to petition the Court. The
Cancellation of Instrument cause of action arises out of events involving the conveyance
of title. (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 13.) The Conversion cause of action involves
DeWelt locking Road Runner out of the property and allegedly selling items
therein. (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 15.) Both of these causes of action arise out of
the same transaction or occurrence as the original complaint. Neither are
subject to the Anti-SLAPP motion.
 
Accordingly, DeWelt
has failed to make a threshold showing that the challenged causes of action arise
in furtherance of the right of petition. DeWelt’s motion fails on the first
step.
 
Second
Step 
 
Because DeWelt
failed to meet its burden for the first step, it is unnecessary to determine
the probability of Road Runner’s success on the merits.
 
However, DeWelt
does argue that Road Runner does not have standing to bring the cross-complaint
because Road Runner Nevada, not the current Road Runner, which is Road Runner
Wyoming, was the Defendant to the original complaint. Road Runner Wyoming was
never a defendant, though it was the owner of the subject property at the time
it was ordered conveyed. Whether Road Runner Wyoming has standing to bring the
cross-complaint is irrelevant, though, because standing is not a proper subject
for an anti-SLAPP motion.
 
Standing is not
a basis for a special motion to strike under CCP § 425.16, as special motions
to strike deal with the merits of a complaint. “A litigant’s standing to sue is
a threshold issue to be resolved before the matter can be reached on the
merits.” (Blumhorst v. Jewish Family Services of Los Angeles (2005) 126
Cal.App.4th 993, 1000.) “A party’s standing is thus a jurisdictional issue
‘unrelated to the merits’ of the action.” (Electronic Frontier Foundation,
Inc. v. Superior Court (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 407, 416, quoting Hudis v.
Crawford (2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 1586, 1592.)
 
Even if the
Court were to find that Road Runner Wyoming did not have standing, the special
motion to strike would still be denied because DeWelt failed to meet its burden
for the first step. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Cross-Defendant DeWelt’s Special Motion to Strike is denied.
 
Moving party to
give notice.