 Case Number:  23VECV02529    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  T 23VECV02529 BARKHORDARI V
ESHAGHIAN
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant George Eshaghian’s Demurrer to the
Complaint is OVERRULED as to the third cause of action for unfair business
practices and SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to the first, second, and fourth
causes of action.  Answer to be filed
within 20 days.
Introduction 
Defendant  George Eshaghian (Defendant) demurred to
Plaintiff Joseph Barkhordari’s (Plaintiff) Complaint.  Defendant’s demurrer placed into issue the
first cause of action (COA) for breach of contract, second COA for specific
performance, third COA for unfair business practice (UCL), and the fourth COA
for unjust enrichment.  The fifth COA for
intentional interference of prospective economic advantage is not placed into
issue because it is noted that the COA is not alleged against Defendant.  
Discussion  
As to the first and second COAs
based upon an alleged contract for the sale of real property, Defendant argued
that these two COAs violate the Statute of Frauds (SOF).  (Civ. Code, sec. 1624(a)(3).)  The SOF requires the contract or “some note
or memorandum thereof” be in writing and “subscribed by the party to be charged
or by the party’s agent.”  Plaintiff
alleged that Defendant’s agent, Scott Boras (Boras), emailed an offer to sell
the property for either $75,000.00 cash without contingencies or $125,000.00
with contingencies.  The email was dated
March 3, 2023.  (Compl. par. 13 and Exh.
B; Boras Email.)  Plaintiff alleged that
on March 4, 2023, they accepted the Boras Email offer of $75,000.00 without
contingencies.  (Compl. par. 14.)  The allegations of the Complaint are
insufficient to plead entry into a written contract, note, or memorandum
because Plaintiff did not plead any facts as to how the acceptance was
communicated or that the acceptance was written on a note or memorandum.  The two COAs are uncertain.  On the defect of uncertainty, the first and
second COAs are insufficiently pled and good cause is shown to sustain the
demurrer.  
Plaintiff’s opposition attached,
as an exhibit, correspondence from Plaintiff’s agent and current counsel, Nejat
Kohan (Kohan), that is dated March 16, 2023 (Opposition Exh. H; Kohan
Correspondence).  The Court reviewed the
Kohan Correspondence for the limited purpose of whether Plaintiff can show that
the pleading defect can be cured.  The
Kohan Correspondence was signed by Kohan and is shown to be on Kohan’s
letterhead.  The Kohan Correspondence
asserted that the March 3, 2023 email offer to sell at $75,000.00 with no
contingencies was accepted via teleconference. 
Further, the Kohan Correspondence stated that the agreement was
confirmed by Defendant.  (Plaintiff’s
Opposition, Exh. H.)  However, the Kohan
Correspondence is insufficient to cure the above pleading defect because it is
not subscribed by the party to be charged – Defendant.  Kohan represented Plaintiff not
Defendant.  The Kohan Correspondence is
insufficient to show that the pleading defect can be cured.
Without sufficient fact pleading
to show that the alleged contract complied with the SOF, the alleged contract
is unenforceable.  (Civ. Code, sec.
1624(a)(3).)  
Even if Plaintiff were to argue
that the Boras Email was sufficient to comply with the SOF,  the argument is unpersuasive.  As provided in Plaintiff’s own legal
authority, the subscription in the Boras Email cannot, by itself show
subscription by Defendant, because there are no facts alleged to show that the
parties ever agreed to conduct transactions by electronic means or that the
printed name of Boras at the end of the Boras Email was intended to be an
electronic signature.  (J.J.B. Investment
Partners, Ltd. v. Fair (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 974, 989-990.)
Defendant’s alternative argument
to dispute whether facts are sufficiently alleged to plead a meeting of the
minds is not considered.
The demurrer to the first and
second COAs is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
As to the third COA for UCL,
Defendant argued that UCL does not apply to breaches of contract.  (Acculmage Diagnostics Corp v. Terarecon,
Inc. (N.D. Cal. 2003) 260 F.Sup.2d 941, 954. 
(Acculmage.))  However, the
Acculmage Court’s opinion was based upon a review of solely the unlawful prong
of UCL.  The unlawful prong of the UCL
requires pleading a violation of a “borrowed” federal, state, or local law and
the unlawful prong cannot be based upon a breach of contract.  Plaintiff did not allege any statutory violation
from which the UCL claim could “borrow” from. 
At the least, any UCL claim based upon the unlawful prong is
insufficiently pled due to the lack of a statutory violation. However, there
are two other prongs stated in the disjunctive that could support the UCL COA:
unfair or fraud.  Defendant’s demurrer
failed to address these other two prongs – unfair or fraud.  It is not the Court’s position to seek out
theories a party might have advanced or to articulate for him that which a
party has left unspoken.  (Mesecher v.
County of San Diego (1992) 9 Cal.App.4th 1677, 1686.)  Because Defendant did not identify any
pleading defects as to the unfair or fraud prongs of UCL, the demurrer failed
to meet its initial burden.  The
demurrer’s first argument against the third COA is unpersuasive.
The parties then argued that the
UCL claim improperly alleged damages when the only remedies for UCL are
injunctive relief or restitution/disgorgement of money or property, real or
personal, obtained through the unfair business practice.  (Bank of the West v. Superior Court (1992) 2
Cal.4th 1254, 1272.)    Plaintiff alleged
that Defendant “pirated the fruits of Plaintiff’s labor and intend to receive
the unearned commercial benefit of Plaintiff’s research, investment, labor and
business secrets for themselves.” 
(Compl. par. 28.)  The “fruits”
being Plaintiff’s knowledge of a second access point to the landlocked
property.  (Compl. par. 27.)  However, Plaintiff’s Prayer requested
compensatory and treble damages under the third COA.  (Compl. Prayer, pars.4-5.)  “Parties are ‘entitled to any relief
warranted by the facts pleaded, and their failure to ask for the proper relief
is not fatal.’ … A defective prayer is simply irrelevant to the question
whether a cause of action is stated.” 
(Gomez v. Volkswagen of America, Inc. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 921,
925.)  Defendant’s argument disputing the
propriety of the requested remedy is improper for a demurrer and is not good
cause to sustain the demurrer.
The demurrer to the third COA is
OVERRULED.  
The fourth COA for unjust
enrichment is not a recognized COA. 
(Melchior v. New Line Productions, Inc. (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 779, 793;
McKell v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1490.)  To the extent Plaintiff is seeking the remedy
of restitution, the remedy is dependent upon the sufficient pleading of a
breach of contract COA.  As reviewed
above, breach of contract is not sufficiently pled with supportive fact
allegations.  Any claim of restitution
fails to be sufficiently pled because the above breach of contract COAs are
insufficiently pled.
The demurrer to the fourth COA
for unjust enrichment is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.  
______________________________________________________________________________
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant George Eshaghian’s Motion to
Expunge Lis Pendens is GRANTED. 
Defendant George Eshaghian’s request for attorneys’ fees and costs is
GRANTED but reduced to the reasonable amount of $3,400.00.
Plaintiff Joseph Barkhordari’s
request for attorneys’ fees and costs is DENIED.
Introduction 
Defendant George Eshaghian
(Defendant) moved to expunge the lis pendens filed by Plaintiff Joseph
Barkhordari (Plaintiff).  Defendant
further requested $5,075.00 in fees and costs for the motion.  
Discussion  
When a motion to expunge a lis
pendens is filed, the burden is on the opposing party to show that the
complaint contains allegations of a real-property claim, and to evidence the
probable validity of the claim based upon a preponderance of evidence.  (Code Civ. Proc., secs. 405.32, 405.30;  Kirkeby v. Superior Court (2004) 33 Cal.4th
642, 648 (Kirkeby).) A real property claim is defined in Code of Civil
Procedure, section 405.4 as “the cause or causes of action in a pleading which
would, if meritorious, affect [] title to, or the right to possession of,
specific real property.”  Whether a
complaint is sufficient in asserting a real-property claim is determined under
a demurrer-like analysis.  (Kirkeby,
supra, 33 Cal.4th at p. 648.) Rather than analyzing whether the pleading states
any claim at all, as on a general demurrer, the court must undertake the more
limited analysis of whether the pleading states a real property claim.”  (Id.) 
Review “involves only a review of the adequacy of the pleading and
normally should not involve evidence from either side, other than possibly that
which may be judicially noticed as on a demurrer.” (Id.; Code Civ. Proc. sec.
405.30.)
The Court’s sustaining of the
concurrent demurrer without leave to amend as to the first cause of action
(COA) for breach of contract, the second COA for specific performance, and the
fourth COA for unjust enrichment struck any real property claims.  (Code Civ. Proc. sec. 405.31.)  The third COA for unfair business practices
(UCL) is not alleged to be a real property claim because any relief under the
UCL is not a claim for title of the real property at issue.  The UCL claim’s requested relief is based
upon Defendant’s use of Plaintiff’s knowledge/discovery of an unknown access
road to the allegedly landlocked property. 
Under the third COA, the relief would be limited to injunctive relief
prohibiting or enjoining Defendant from using such knowledge of the second
access road.  Nothing in the UCL COA is a
claim on title to the property.  Without
any viable COAs that include a real property claim, Plaintiff cannot meet its
burden to show that the complaint alleges a real property claim and/or submit
evidence to show probable validity of a real property claim.  
The motion to expunge the lis
pendens is GRANTED.  
Parties prevailing on motions to
expunge a lis pendens are entitled to recover reasonable attorney fees
associated with making or opposing the motion, unless courts find the other
parties acted with substantial justification, or other circumstances of injustice.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 405.38; Castro v.
Superior Court (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 1010, 1018.)  Despite Plaintiff’s claim that there was
substantial justification or circumstances of injustice, the Court does not
find the same.  Plaintiff’s allegation of
acceptance in the Complaint was uncertain. 
A review of Plaintiff’s additional facts to overcome the statute of
frauds argument was unsubstantiated.  The
issue was not a complex issue in the legal or factual sense.  Plaintiff’s reliance upon their own
correspondence in their attempt to overcome the statute of frauds defense was
not logical.  Plaintiff did not show
substantial justification or circumstances of injustice.  However, Defendant’s requested amount in fees
and costs is excessive and unreasonable. 
The hourly rate of $425.00 is seen to be reasonable based upon Attorney
David Cohen’s experience.  However,
charging 11.8 hours in time is unreasonable and excessive.  The issues asserted in the motion, as stated
above, were not complex.  The Court
reduced the amount to $3,400.00.  
Defendant’s request for
attorneys’ fees and costs is GRANTED at the reduced amount of $3,400.00
Plaintiff’s request for
attorneys’ fees and costs is DENIED because Plaintiff is not the prevailing
party.  
 
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.