  Case Number:  22PSCV00103    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2023    Dept:  K Defendants John JoonHyo Shin and Sue
SeungOk Shin, individually and as co-trustees of The Joon Hyo Shin Family Trust’s unopposed
Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint is GRANTED.
Background[1]  
Plaintiff Mickey’s Liquor & Market Inc. (“Plaintiff”)
alleges as follows:
Plaintiff is the current tenant of a
commercial property located at 13512 East Valley Boulevard, La Puente, CA 91746
(“Premises”) via the May 2012 assignment/amendment (“2012 Amendment”) of a 2006
lease (“2006 Lease”); Joon Hyo Shin and Seung Ok Shin are the landlords and
co-trustees of the Joon Hyo Shin Family Trust dated May 20, 2003, which is the
actual owner of the Premises. The 2012 Amendment extended the lease term to
June 5, 2022 and provided Plaintiff with a right to exercise an option to
further extend the lease term for 5 more years provided Plaintiff was in
compliance with its obligations at the time of the exercise. Plaintiff
exercised this option via a notice dated November 16, 2021, but it was denied.
On January 31,
2022, Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting causes of action against Joon Hyo Shin and Seung Ok Shin, individually and as
co-trustees of The Joon Hyo Shin Family Trust dated May 20, 2003 and Does 1-10 for:
1.                 
Declaratory Relief
2.                 
Breach of Lease
3.                 
Breach of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment 
4.                 
Fraud (Deceit/False Promise) 
5.                 
Breach of Statute
The Final Status Conference is set for December 12, 2023.
Trial is set for January 16, 2024.
Legal Standard
“A party against whom a cause of
action has been asserted in a complaint or cross-complaint may file a
cross-complaint setting forth. . . : (a) Any cause of action he has against any
of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him…” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 428.10, subd. (a).) “A party shall file a cross-complaint against
any of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or
her before or at the same time as the answer to the complaint or
cross-complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 428.50, subd. (a).)
“Except as
otherwise provided by statute, if a party against whom a complaint has been
filed and served fails to allege in a cross-complaint any related cause of
action which (at the time of serving his answer to the complaint) he has
against the plaintiff, such party may not thereafter in any other action assert
against the plaintiff the related cause of action not pleaded.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 426.30, subd. (a).) A “‘[r]elated cause of action’ means a cause of
action which arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of
transactions or occurrences as the cause of action which the plaintiff alleges
in his complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 426.10, subd. (c).)
“A party who fails
to plead a cause of action subject to the requirements of this article, whether
through oversight, inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other cause, may apply to
the court for leave to amend his pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to
assert such cause at any time during the course of the action. The court, after
notice to the adverse party, shall grant, upon such terms as may be just to the
parties, leave to amend the pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to assert
such cause if the party who failed to plead the cause acted in good faith. This
subdivision shall be liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of
action.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 426.50(a).)

Discussion
Defendants John JoonHyo Shin and Sue SeungOk
Shin, individually and as co-trustees of The Joon Hyo Shin Family Trust (“Defendants”)
move the court for an order granting them leave to file a proposed cross-complaint.
The proposed cross-complaint is
compulsory, inasmuch as it is asserted against Plaintiff and involves a
“related cause of action” as defined by Code of Civil Procedure § 426.10,
subdivision (c). Causes of action arise out of the “same transaction or occurrence”
if there is “a logical relationship between the prior complaint and the
cross-complaint.” (ZF Micro Devices, Inc. v. TAT Capital Partners, Ltd.
(2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 69, 82). The term “transaction” “is construed
broadly; it is not confined to a single, isolated act or occurrence. . . but
may embrace a series of acts or occurrences logically interrelated.” (Heshejin
v. Rostami (2020) 54 Cal.App.5th 984, 993-994 [internal quotations and
citation omitted].) “In the breach of contract context, the rule means
any claims the defendant has against the plaintiff based on the same contract
generally must be asserted in a cross-complaint, even if the claims are
unrelated to the specific breach or breaches that underlie the plaintiff's
complaint.” (Id. at 994 [quotations and citation omitted].)
Plaintiff’s complaint and the proposed
cross-complaint both pertain to the commercial lease agreement for Plaintiff’s
tenancy at the subject property. 
The question remaining, then, is
whether or not Defendants have acted in good faith. “The provision in section
425.60 relating to ‘good faith’ does allow trial courts a ‘modicum of
discretion’ in allowing amendments to cross-complaints. Nonetheless, what constitutes ‘good
faith’ must be determined in conformity with the liberality conferred upon the
trial courts by the section and by prior law.” (Sidney v. Superior Court
(1988) 198 Cal.App.3d 710, 718.) “[T]his principle of liberality requires that
a strong showing of bad faith be made in order to support a denial of the right
to file a cross-complaint under this section.” (Id. [quotations and
citation omitted].)
There is no evidence that Defendants
have acted in bad faith; in fact, the motion is not opposed. The motion, then,
is granted.


