 On May 2, 2023, a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) was filed relating to the failure to pay attorneys’ fees after losing an unlawful detainer action and to repair property pursuant to commercial leases.   On June 23, 2023, a Cross-Complaint was filed relating to the failure to pay rent.On August 14, 2024, the Court granted three motions filed by Defendant PR2020, LLC seeking to compel Plaintiff Jeffrey Marduce to provide initial responses to its requests for production, special interrogatories, and form interrogatories.  The Court ordered that responses, without objections, be served within 30 days.PR2020, LLC now seeks terminating, evidentiary, issue, and/or monetary sanctions against Plaintiff Jeffrey Marduce for his failure to comply with the Court’s August 14, 2024, discovery order.“California discovery law authorizes a range of penalties for conduct amounting to ‘misuse of the discovery process.’ ” (Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 991.)  Misuses of the discovery process include “[u]sing a discovery method in a manner that does not comply with its specified procedures” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010(b)); “[f]ailing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery” (id., subd. (d)); “[m]aking an evasive response to discovery” (id., subd. (f)); and “[d]isobeying a court order to provide discovery” (id., subd. (g).)Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030 authorizes a trial court to impose monetary sanctions, issue sanctions, evidence sanctions, or terminating sanctions against “anyone engaging in conduct that is a misuse of the discovery process.”  In selecting the appropriate sanction, a trial court “should consider both the conduct being sanctioned and its effect on the party seeking discovery,” and should tailor the sanction to fit the harm caused by the abuse of the discovery process.  (Doppes, supra, 174 Cal.App.4th at p. 992.)  “The trial court cannot impose sanctions for misuse of the discovery process as a punishment.”  (Ibid.)A terminating sanction “is a proper sanction to punish the failure to comply with a rule or an order only if the court’s authority cannot be vindicated through the imposition of a less severe alternative.”  (Rail Services of America v. State Comp. Ins. Fund (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 323, 331 [concerning dismissal for a plaintiffs’ refusal to comply with discovery]; see also Mileikowsky v. Tenet Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 262, 279-80 [“[W]here a violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.”].)Because there is no opposition, it seems that Plaintiff Jeffrey Marduce does not wish to participate in the discovery process.  Therefore, the Court will enter a terminating sanction—Marduce is stricken from the SAC and his default is entered with respect to the Cross-Complaint.  No other sanctions will be awarded.  The Motion is granted in part.Moving party to give notice.