 This is a wage and hour dispute.  Plaintiff Wilmer Guerra now seeks to compel arbitration of this matter. Defendant Navarro Norton, Inc. does not dispute that there is a valid arbitration agreement between the parties.  Rather, it only argues that (1) Plaintiff waived arbitration and (2) Labor Code § 229 precludes arbitration of Plaintiff’s Labor Code claims. Defendant apparently refuses to provide a complete copy of the subject arbitration agreement.  The Court only has the last page, which states in relevant part: “BOTH THE COMPANY AND EMPLOYEE UNDERSTAND AND AGREE THAT BY USING ARBITRATION TO RESOLVE ANY CLAIMS BETWEEN THEM, THEY ARE GIVING UP ANY RIGHT THEY MAY HAVE TO A JUDGE OR JURY TRIAL REGARDING THESE CLAIMS”.  Plaintiff’s signature is displayed on this page.   “Because arbitration is a highly favored means of settling such disputes, the courts have been admonished to ‘closely scrutinize any allegation of waiver of such favored right’ [Citations], and to ‘indulge every intendment to give effect to such proceedings’ [Citations.]”  (Doers v. Golden Gate Bridge etc. Dist. (1979) 23 Cal.3d 180, 189.)  Factors to be considered in evaluating waiver include: “(1) whether the party's actions are inconsistent with the right to arbitrate; (2) whether ‘the litigation machinery has been substantially invoked’ and the parties ‘were well into preparation of a lawsuit’ before the party notified the opposing party of an intent to arbitrate; (3) whether a party either requested arbitration enforcement close to the trial date or delayed for a long period before seeking a stay; (4) whether a defendant seeking arbitration filed a counterclaim without asking for a stay of the proceedings; (5) ‘whether important intervening steps [e.g., taking advantage of judicial discovery procedures not available in arbitration] had taken place’; and (6) whether the delay ‘affected, misled, or prejudiced’ the opposing party.”  (Sobremonte v. Superior Court (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 980, 992.)   The Court cannot find waiver.  Defendant answered in May 2024; trial is set for March 2027; the Court has not heard a single motion; and there are only three discovery motions that are pending.    Next, Labor Code § 229 states, “Actions to enforce the provisions of this article for the collection of due and unpaid wages claimed by an individual may be maintained without regard to the existence of any private agreement to arbitrate.”Plaintiff argues that Labor Code § 229 is preempted by the FAA.  Defendant argues that the FAA does not apply because Plaintiff's employment did not involve interstate commerce. What is notable about Labor Code § 229 is its use of the permissive term “may”, which means the complainant can—but is not required to—pursue Labor Code claims in court, despite the existence of an applicable arbitration agreement.  Here, Plaintiff is making the choice not to pursue such claims in court and to instead pursue arbitration.  There is nothing in Labor Code § 229 that precludes this.  Labor Code § 229 is meant to protect employees—not the employer— with respect to pursuing fundamental and unwaivable claims.  (See Ware v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1973) 24 Cal.App.3d 35, 45 [“the public policy inherent in section 229[ ] [is] that an employee cannot be required to arbitrate a claim for wages, which arbitration might not take place in California.”].)  The Court is not aware of any cases in which an employer attempted to apply Labor Code § 229 against the wishes of the employee.  The Court finds that Plaintiff has elected not to pursue his claims in litigation, and Labor Code § 229 does not compel any other result.     Based on the above, the Court need not reach the issue of whether the FAA applies.  The Court notes, however, that it is suspicious that, even now, Defendant refuses to produce the complete copy of the subject arbitration agreement.  The Court would not be surprised if the agreement explicitly states that the FAA applies and that a transaction involving interstate commerce is contemplated.   Further, there is no indication by Defendant that the subject arbitration agreement does not otherwise encompass Plaintiff’s claims.   Because a valid arbitration agreement exists, the Motion to Compel Arbitration is granted.  This action is stayed.  (CCP § 1281.4.)  The objections are overruled.Moving party to give notice.