Here is the summary of the Judge's tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 24NWCV00735
Plaintiff's Name: Harold Atilio Navarrete and Brenda Navarette
Defendant's Name: Sproul Street One, LP and Jervis Property Service, Inc.
People-Names: Harold Atilio Navarrete, Brenda Navarette
Company-Names: Sproul Street One, LP, Jervis Property Service, Inc.
Places: 8037 Stewart and Gray Road, Unit #8, Downey, CA 90241
Dates: March 8, 2024, June 27, 2024, December 11, 2024
Events: Demurrer, Motion to Strike, Meeting and Confer
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: To determine the sufficiency of the complaint and to strike certain portions
Facts: The Property had leaking plumbing, accumulation of moisture, and toxic mold. Plaintiffs alleged they were diagnosed with chronic fatigue as a result of substandard living conditions.
Disputes: The defendants demurred to the fourth and fifth causes of action, and moved to strike portions of the complaint.
Acts: The defendants attempted to repair the issues, but the repairs were unsuccessful.
Agreements: The parties did not adequately meet and confer before filing the demurrer.
Laws: California Civil Code, California Code of Civil Procedure, Health & Safety Code
Case Citations: Hahn v. Mirda, Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co., Blank v. Kirwan, Doe v. City of Los Angeles, A.J. Fistes v. GDL Best Contractors, Inc., Khoury v. Maly's of California, Goodman v. Kennedy, Smith v. Superior Court
Statutes: California Civil Code section 1941.1, California Civil Code section 1942.4, California Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10(f), California Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, California Code of Civil Procedure section 435-437
Roles: The court ruled on the demurrer and motion to strike, and granted leave to amend the complaint.
Significant Statements: The court found that the defendants' demurrer to the fourth cause of action was overruled, and the defendants' demurrer to the fifth cause of action was sustained with leave to amend. The court also granted in part the defendants' motion to strike, and denied the motion to strike the remaining portions of the complaint.
```

Here is a summary of the Judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The court has issued a tentative ruling on the demurrer and motion to strike filed by the defendants. The court has overruled the defendants' demurrer to the fourth cause of action for breach of contract, finding that the complaint states a cause of action. The court has sustained the defendants' demurrer to the fifth cause of action for violation of Civil Code section 1942.4, finding that the complaint fails to state a cause of action and is uncertain.

The court has granted in part the defendants' motion to strike, striking certain portions of the complaint including paragraph 54, item 5 in the prayer for relief, and item 6 in the prayer for relief. The court has denied the motion to strike the remaining portions of the complaint.

The court has also denied the defendants' request to strike the use of the words "willingly" and "intentionally" in the complaint, finding that these words do not reflect irrelevant, false, or improper matter.

The court has ordered the parties to give notice of the ruling and has granted leave to amend the complaint.