 Case Number:  23NWCV01893    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  SEC RIVERA V. MUNROCASE NO.: 23NWCV01893HEARING: 12/11/2024#1TENTATIVE ORDERI. Plaintiff Fermin Rivera’s motion to compel responses to special interrogatories is GRANTED.II. Plaintiff’s motion to compel responses to form interrogatories is GRANTED.III. Plaintiff’s motion to compel responses demand for production of documents is GRANTED.IV. Plaintiff’s motion to deem requests for admissions admitted is GRANTED.V. Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is GRANTED in the reduced amount of $2,700.Moving party to give notice.Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Fermin Rivera dba Red Apple Air (Plaintiff) moves to compel special interrogatories, form interrogatories, production of documents, and requests for admission from Defendant Alma Munro (Defendant).BackgroundOn June 16, 2023, Plaintiff filed this breach of contract action against Defendant. Plaintiff alleges causes of action for breach of contract and common counts. Plaintiff alleges Defendants failed to pay for work performed and materials provided.Legal StandardInterrogatoriesA party to whom interrogatories are propounded must respond within 30 days of service of the interrogatories. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.260.) If a party fails to serve a timely response, the party propounding interrogatories may move for an order compelling responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290.) Additionally, “the party to whom the interrogatories are directed waives any right to exercise theoption to produce writings under Section 2030.230, as well as any objection to the interrogatories, including one based on privilege or on the protection for work product.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290.)Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.290 subd. (c), “[t]he court shall impose a monetary sanction…against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”Production of DocumentsUnder Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.260 subdivision (a), a party must respond to requests for production of documents within 30 days of service. Failure to do so waives all objections including privilege or on the protection of work product. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 subd. (a); see also Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300 subd. (a).)Requests for AdmissionUnder Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.250 subdivision (a), a party must respond to requests for admission within 30 days of service. Failure to do so waives all objections including privilege or on the protection of work product. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280 subd. (a).) “The requesting party may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280 subd. (b).) The court “shall” grant a motion to deem admitted requests for admissions, “unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280 subd. (c).)DiscussionPlaintiff seeks a court order compelling responses from Defendant for his special interrogatories, form interrogatories, and demand for production of documents as well as a court order deeming the requests for admissions, admitted.Here, Plaintiff served Defendant with special interrogatories, form interrogatories, demand for production of documents, and requests for admission on October 13, 2023. (Ciaccio Decl., Special Interrogatories, ¶ 2; Ciaccio Decl., Form Interrogatories, ¶ 2; Ciaccio Decl., Demand for Production of Documents, ¶ 2;Ciaccio Decl., Demand for Production of Documents, ¶ 2.) The discovery responses were therefore due on November 17, 2023, and Plaintiff further granted an extension to January 2, 2023. (Ciaccio Decl., ¶ 2.) To date, Defendant has not provided responses. As of this date, no opposition has been filed.Based on the lack of responses and lack of justification, Plaintiff’s motions to compel special interrogatories, form interrogatories, demand for production of documents, and request for admission are GRANTED.SanctionsPlaintiff requests $1,800 each in attorney’s fees for bringing each of the four motions to compel. Counsel for Plaintiff, David Ciaccio, states his hourly rate is $450 for litigation matters and that this client is paying $300 per hour. Ciaccio contends he spent three hours preparing for each motion and expects to spend three hours preparing for and attending the hearing.Plaintiff separately requests $1,000 in sanctions for each motion against Defendant and her counsel due to the lack of response and lack of substantial justification.Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 2030.290 subd. (c), 2031.300 subd. (c), and 2033.280 subd. (b) the Court shall impose a monetary sanction against Defendant for unsuccessfully opposing these motions. However, the Court finds that the total amount requested of $7,200 in attorney’s fees plus an additional sanction of $4,000 is unreasonable. The motions and declarations were similar and should not require a total of twelve hours of work. Additionally, three hours for preparation and attending the hearing for each motion is unreasonable given there was no opposition, and these motions are being heard at the same time.The Court therefore awards sanctions in the total amount of $2,700. The Court finds this reasonably compensates Plaintiff for attorney’s fees and costs incurred in bringing these motions.Conclusion and OrderDefendant Alma Munro is ORDERED to provide verified responses and documents to special interrogatories and form interrogatories without objection no later than 15 days from the Court’s issuance of this order. This date may be extended pursuant to agreement of the parties.Defendant Alma Munro is ORDERED to provide verified responses and documents to demand for production of documents without objection no later than 15 days from the Court’s issuance of this order. This date may be extended pursuant to agreement of the parties.Defendant is DEEMED to have admitted requests for admission.Plaintiff Fermin Rivera’s request for sanctions is GRANTED in the reduced amount of $2,700. Defendant is ORDERED to pay this amount no later than 30 days from the Court’s issuance of this order.