 Case Number:  23NWCV03841    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  SEC CELAYA V. COMMUNITY INTEGRATION PROJECT, INC.CASE NO.: 23NWCV03841HEARING: 12/11/2024#6TENTATIVE ORDERI. Defendant Community Integration Project’s demurrer to the first cause of action is OVERRULED.II. Defendant’s demurrer to the second, third, sixth, seventh, and eighth causes of action are SUSTAINED with LEAVE TO AMEND.Moving party to give notice.Defendant Community Integration Project (Defendant) demurs to the first amended complaint’s (FAC) first, second, third, sixth, seventh, and eighth causes of action.BackgroundOn November 27, 2023, Ernest Celaya (Ernest), by and through his parent and guardian ad-litem Maria Romero, and Lisa Celaya (Lisa), by and through her parent and guardian ad-litem, Maria Romero (Plaintiffs) filed a complaint against Defendant. On February 7, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a FAC alleging eight causes of action: (1) intentional infliction of emotional distress, (2) abandonment via Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act – Welf. & Inst. Code §§ 15610.07, 15610.05, (3) neglect via Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act – Welf. & Inst. Code §§ 15610.07, 15610.57, (4) negligence, (5) negligence per se, (6) breach of contract – third party beneficiary. (7) intentional interference with contractual relations – third party beneficiary, and (8) breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing – third party beneficiary.Plaintiffs are dependent adults who have physical and mental limitations that restrict their abilities to carry out normal activities or protect their rights. (FAC, ¶¶ 8, 9.) Plaintiffs, who are under the care and custody of Defendant, have a sister, Melissa Celaya (Melissa) who is employed by Defendant. (FAC, ¶ 10.) Plaintiffs allege that after Melissa reported unlawful drug use by Defendant’s employees, Defendant ceased all services to Plaintiffs. (FAC, ¶ 11.)Legal StandardA demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) In a demurrer proceeding, thedefects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) In assessing a demurrer, the court “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of law.” (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.” (Hahn v. Mirda, supra, at p. 747.) A complaint will be upheld against a demurrer if it pleads facts sufficient to place the defendant on notice of the issues sufficient to enable the defendant to prepare a defense. (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 549-50.)Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10(f) provides for a demurrer where a pleading is uncertain. Demurrers for uncertainty are disfavored and are only sustained where a pleading is so incomprehensible a defendant cannot reasonably respond. (A.J. Fistes v. GDL Best Contractors, Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677, 695; Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)“Generally it is an abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment.” (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) A “[p]laintiff must show in what manner he can amend his complaint and how that amendment will change the legal effect of his pleading.” (Ibid.)Meet and ConferThe parties have adequately met and conferred.DiscussionDefendant demurs to the first, second, third, sixth, seventh, and eighth causes of action of the FAC pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 430.10 subd. (e) and (f) on the grounds that Plaintiffs fail to plead facts sufficient to demonstrate the causes of action.First Cause of Action – Intentional Infliction of Emotional DistressDefendant demurs to the first cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress on the grounds that Plaintiff fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.“The elements of a prima facie case for the tort of intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing,emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct. Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.” (Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009, citation and ellipses omitted.) “Only emotional distress of ‘such substantial quantity or enduring quality’ that an individual in civilized society should not be expected to endure it constitutes severe emotional distress. (Angie M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.)Here, Plaintiffs plead facts sufficient to constitute the first cause of action. Plaintiffs demonstrate reckless disregard of the probability of causing emotional distress. Plaintiffs allege Defendant retaliated against its clients who are under its care for actions of an employee. (FAC, ¶ 76.) The FAC alleges that as a result of this, Ernest experienced significant depression, refused to eat, and repeatedly questioned “why did they kick me out.” (FAC, ¶ 78.) Additionally, while finding a replacement, his well-being was disrupted for two weeks. (FAC, ¶ 20.) The FAC alleges Lisa experienced significant depression. (FAC, ¶ 79.) The FAC alleges both Plaintiffs experienced post-traumatic stress, humiliation, nausea, insomnia, anxiety attacks, and mental fatigue. (FAC, ¶ 81.) Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer as to the first cause of action is OVERRULED.Second and Third Causes of Action – Abandonment and NeglectDefendant demurs to the second cause of action for abandonment in violation of the Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act – Welf. & Inst. Code §§15610.07, 15610.05 on the grounds that Plaintiff fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.The Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15600 et seq.) provides for steep penalties against those who abuse an elder or a dependent adult. Dependent adult abuse includes physical abuse, neglect, isolation, deprivation by a care custodian of necessary goods or services, and financial abuse. (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.07, subd. (a).) Abandonment is defined as “the desertion or willful forsaking of an elder or a dependent adult by anyone having care or custody of that person under circumstances in which a reasonable person would continue to provide care and custody.” (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.05.) Neglect includes failure to assist in personal hygiene, failure to provide medical care for physical and mental health needs, and failure to protect from health and safety hazards. (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.57, subd. (b).)[S]everal factors [] must be present for conduct to constitute neglect within the meaning of the Elder Abuse Act and thereby trigger the enhanced remedies available under the Act. The plaintiff must allege (and ultimately prove by clear and convincing evidence) facts establishing that the defendant: (1) had responsibility for meeting the basic needs of the elder or dependent adult, such as nutrition, hydration, hygiene or medical care; (2) knew of conditions that made the elder or dependent adult unable to provide for his or her own basic needs; and (3) denied or withheld goods or services necessary to meet the elder or dependent adult’s basic needs, either with knowledge that injury was substantially certain to befall the elder or dependent adult (if the plaintiff alleges oppression, fraud or malice) or with conscious disregard of the high probability of such injury (if the plaintiff alleges recklessness). The plaintiff must also allege (and ultimately prove by clear and convincing evidence) that the neglect caused the elder or dependent adult to suffer physical harm, pain or mental suffering. Finally, the facts constituting the neglect and establishing the causal link between the neglect and the injury “must be pleaded with particularity,” in accordance with the pleading rules governing statutory claims.(Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 406-407, citations omitted.)Acts which are prohibited under the Elder Abuse Act provisions of the Welfare and Institute Code “do not include acts of simple professional negligence, but refer to forms of abuse or neglect performed with some state of culpability greater than mere negligence.” (Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 781 (Covenant Care).) To constitute abuse and neglect within the meaning of the Elder Abuse Act, thereby triggering the enhanced remedies available under the Act, Plaintiff “must demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence that defendant is guilty of something more than negligence; he or she must show reckless, oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious conduct,” with recklessness referring “to a subjective state of culpability greater than simple negligence, which has been described as a “deliberate disregard” of the “high degree of probability” that an injury will occur,” and “[o]ppression, fraud and malice [involving] intentional or conscious wrongdoing of a despicable or injurious nature.” (Sababin v. Superior Court (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 81, 88-89, quotation marks omitted.)The FAC does not allege facts sufficient to state causes of action for abandonment and neglect. Here, Plaintiffs were under the care of Defendant for four to eight hours a day between three and five days a week. (FAC, ¶ 99.) Ernest’s care included helping with body exercises, walking with him to retailers, and showing him how to read and write. (FAC, ¶ 99.) Lisa’s care involved schoolwork, helping to clean her room, walking with her to retailers, and takingher to appointments. (FAC, ¶ 100.) The FAC alleges Defendants were aware of Plaintiffs’ conditions as their caretaker. Specifically, Defendants were aware Ernest has cerebral palsy and is wheelchair bound, and Lisa has autism. (FAC, ¶¶ 56, 57.) The FAC alleges Defendant was contractually bound not to terminate the contract with Plaintiffs without good cause, and if it were to be terminated, Defendant would continue services until proper replacement services were accommodated. (FAC, ¶ 94.) After Defendant terminated Plaintiffs as clients, Ernest was left without a replacement aid for two weeks. (FAC, ¶ 78.) Lisa did not receive replacement services until March 15, 2023. (FAC, ¶ 79.)Defendant argues Plaintiffs have not alleged facts sufficient to show oppression, fraud, or malice. The Court agrees. In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that they have shown “willful forsaking” of an elder as proscribed by statute. (Cal. Wel & Inst. Code §15610.05) However, Plaintiffs plead oppression, fraud, and malice, which require a heightened pleading that Defendants acted with “knowledge that injury was substantially certain to befall the elder or dependent adult.” (Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 406-407, citations omitted.) Here, Plaintiffs allegations do not amount to deprivations of Plaintiffs’ basic needs such as nutrition, hydration, hygiene or medical care. Plaintiffs have not pled by clear and convincing evidence that Defendant acted with knowledge that Plaintiffs would suffer injury. Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to the second and third causes of action is SUSTAINED with LEAVE TO AMEND.Sixth Cause of Action – Breach of Contract – Third Party BeneficiaryDefendant demurs to the sixth cause of action for breach of contract – third party beneficiary on the grounds that Plaintiff fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.An action for breach of contract action for a third party beneficiary must state (1) the existence of a contract; (2) made expressly for the benefit of a third person; and (3) enforced before the parties rescinded it. (Walters v. Marler (1978) 83 Cal.App.3d 1, 31 (citing, e.g., Civ. Code, § 1559), disapproved on other grounds by Gray v. Don Miller & Associates, Inc. (1984) 35 Cal.3d 498, 507; City of Oakland v. Oakland Raiders (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 458, 472 (to qualify as third-party beneficiary, a party must show (1) one is likely to benefit from the contract, (2) a motivating purpose of contracting parties to benefit third party, and (3) having third party suing for breach is consistent with objectives and contracting parties’ reasonable expectations).) “If the action is based on alleged breach of a written contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the complaint or a copy of the written agreement must be attached and incorporated by reference.” (Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.)Here, the FAC does not plead facts sufficient to state a cause of action for breach of contract. Plaintiffs allege they are the third-party beneficiaries to a written contract between Defendant and Regional Center, a nonprofit community agency which assists with California’s developmentally disabled residents. (FAC, ¶ 78.) The FAC describes terms regarding termination of the contract but does not provide the terms verbatim or attach a copy of the contract. (See Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel, supra, 74 Cal.App.4th at 307.) Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to the sixth cause of action is SUSTAINED with LEAVE TO AMEND.Seventh Cause of Action – Intentional Interference with Contractual RelationsDefendant demurs to the seventh cause of action for intentional interference with contractual relations – third party beneficiaries for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.The elements of a cause of action for intentional interference with contractual relations are “(1) a valid contract between plaintiff and a third party; (2) defendant’s knowledge of this contract; (3) defendant's intentional acts designed to induce a breach or disruption of the contractual relationship; (4) actual breach or disruption of the contractual relationship; and (5) resulting damage.” (I-CA Enterprises, Inc. v. Palram Americas, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 257, 289.)Here, the FAC does not state a cause of action for intentional interference with contractual relations. The FAC describes terms regarding termination of the contract but does not provide the terms verbatim or attach a copy of the contract. (See Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel, supra, 74 Cal.App.4th at 307.) Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to the seventh cause of action is SUSTAINED with LEAVE TO AMEND.Eighth Cause of Action – Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair DealingDefendant demurs to the eighth cause of action for breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing – third party beneficiary for failure to plead facts sufficient to state a cause of action.“The prerequisite for any action for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing is the existence of a contractual relationship between the parties, since the covenant is an implied term in the contract.” (Smith v. City and County of San Francisco (1990) 225 Cal.App.3d 38, 49.) “A breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing involves something beyond breach of the contractual duty itself and it has been held that bad faith implies unfair dealingrather than mistaken judgment.” (Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1394.)Here, the FAC does not state a cause of action for breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. As with the foregoing sixth and seventh causes of action, the FAC fails to plead the existence of a contractual relationship in which Plaintiffs are the third party beneficiaries. Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to the eighth cause of action is SUSTAINED with LEAVE TO AMEND.