 Case Number:  24NWCV00735    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  SEC NAVARRETE, ET AL. V. SPROUL STREET ONE, LP, ET AL.CASE NO.: 24NWCV00735HEARING: 12/11/2024#3TENTATIVE ORDERI. Defendants Sproul Street Once, L.P. and Jervis Property Service, Inc.’s demurrer to the FAC’s fourth cause of action is OVERRULED.II. Defendants’ demurrer to the FAC’s fifth cause of action is SUSTAINED with LEAVE TO AMEND.III. Defendants’ motion to strike portions of the FAC is GRANTED IN PART. The following portions are stricken with LEAVE TO AMEND: (1) the entirety of paragraph 54, (2) item 5 in the prayer for relief, and (3) item 6 in the prayer for relief.IV. Defendants’ motion to strike is DENIED as to the remaining portions in the FAC.Moving party to give notice.Sproul Street Once, L.P. and Jervis Property Service, Inc. (Defendants) demur to the first amended complaint’s (FAC) fourth and fifth causes of action and move to strike portions of the FAC and punitive damages.BackgroundOn March 8, 2024, Harold Atilio Navarrete and Brenda Navarette (Plaintiffs) filed a complaint against Defendants. This premises liability action concerns the residential property located at 8037 Stewart and Gray Road, Unit #8, Downey, CA 90241 (Property) owned and operated by Defendants. The FAC alleges nine causes of action: (1) negligence, (2) premises liability, (3) constructive eviction, (4) breach of contract, (5) violation of Civil Code section 1942.4, (6) tortious breach of warranty of habitability, (7) breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment, (8) nuisance, and (9) violation of Business and Professions Code § 17200 et seq.Plaintiffs allege they were diagnosed with chronic fatigue as a result of substandard living conditions in the Property. (FAC, ¶ 25.) Specifically, Plaintiffs allege the Property had leaking plumbing, accumulation of moisture, and toxic mold. (FAC, ¶ 17.) These problems persisted despite Defendants’ repair attempts. (FAC, ¶ 19.)Meet and Confer“Before filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41 subd. (a).)The parties have not adequately met and conferred. On June 27, 2024, counsel for Defendants sent a letter to counsel for Plaintiffs, but did not receive a response. (Smyth Decl., ¶¶ 2, 3)Legal StandardDemurrer StandardA demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) In assessing a demurrer, the court “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of law.” (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.” (Hahn v. Mirda, supra, at p. 747.) A complaint will be upheld against a demurrer if it pleads facts sufficient to place the defendant on notice of the issues sufficient to enable the defendant to prepare a defense. (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 549-50.)Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10(f) provides for a demurrer where a pleading is uncertain. Demurrers for uncertainty are disfavored and are only sustained where a pleading is so incomprehensible a defendant cannot reasonably respond. (A.J. Fistes v. GDL Best Contractors, Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677, 695; Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)“Generally it is an abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment.” (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) A “[p]laintiff must show in what manner he can amend his complaint and how that amendment will change the legal effect of his pleading.” (Ibid.)Motion to Strike StandardMotions to strike are used to reach defects or objections to pleadings that are not challengeable by demurrer (i.e., words, phrases, prayer for damages, etc.). (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 435-437.) A motion to strike lies only where the pleading has irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleadings or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437.)Punitive damages may be recovered upon a proper showing of malice, fraud, or oppression. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “Malice” means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2).) “Oppression” means despicable conduct subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship, in conscious disregard of the person’s rights. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2).) Conclusory allegations, devoid of any factual assertions, are insufficient to support a conclusion that parties acted with oppression, fraud or malice. (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042.)DiscussionDefendants demur to the fourth and fifth causes of action.Fourth Cause of Action – Breach of ContractDefendants demur to the FAC’s fourth cause of action for breach of contract on the grounds that it fails to state a cause of action and that it is uncertain.To state a cause of action for breach of contract, Plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.) If a breach of contract claim “is based on alleged breach of a written contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the complaint or a copy of the written agreement must be attached and incorporated by reference.” (Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.)Here, Plaintiffs have alleged sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action for breach of contract. Plaintiffs’ have established the existence of a lease agreement between the parties and have attached a copy to the FAC. (FAC, ¶ 43; Exh. A.) Plaintiffs state they performed their own obligations under the lease. (FAC, ¶ 56.) Plaintiffs allege Defendants’ breached the lease agreement by stating Defendants’ failure to maintain the Property resulted in the toxic mold. (FAC, ¶ 56.) Lastly, Plaintiffs provide facts alleging damages including medicaland moving expenses as a result of toxic mold exposure. (FAC, ¶ 60.) The Court does not agree that the cause of action fails for uncertainty.Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to the fourth cause of action is overruled.Fifth Cause of Action – Violation of Civil Code § 1942.4Defendants demur to the FAC’s fifth cause of action for violation of Civil Code § 1942.4 on the grounds that it fails to state a cause of action and that it is uncertain.Under Civil Code section 1942.4, a residential landlord may not demand or collect rent, issue a notice of rent increase, or serve a three-day notice to pay rent or quit if (1) the dwelling is untenantable as defined under Civil Code section 1941.1, is in violation of Health & Safety Code section 17920.10, or is deemed and declared substandard under Health & Safety Code section 17920.3, (2) a public officer has inspected the premises and has notified the landlord in writing of his obligations to repair the substandard conditions, (3) the conditions exist and have not been abated 35 days after service without good cause, and (4) the conditions were not cause by the tenant.Plaintiffs have not alleged facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for a violation under Civil Code section 1942.4. Here, Plaintiffs have alleged facts sufficient to deem the Property untenantable under Civil Code section 1941.1. Plaintiffs have alleged plumbing issues, water accumulation, and the spread of toxic mold. (See Civ. Code §§ 1941.1 subd. (a)(2), (a)(6).) Plaintiffs have not pled facts pertaining to the second element. The FAC does not allege any facts pertaining to an officer inspecting the Property.Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to the fifth cause of action is sustained with leave to amend.Motion to StrikeDefendants move to strike portions of the FAC seeking punitive damages, including the use of the words “intentionally,” and “willingly.”Plaintiffs have not sufficiently pled allegations of malice, fraud, or oppression sufficient to warrant punitive damages. Plaintiffs allege that Defendants were aware of the danger of failing to properly repair the issues. (FAC, ¶ 49.) Plaintiffs additionally allege Defendants attempted to abate the mold by repairing the walls, repainting the walls, and stopping water leaks. (FAC, ¶ 20.) In opposition, Plaintiffs correctly state that malice does not require intent to harm, but rather a conscious disregard of a person’s rights. Plaintiffs then argue that Defendantsconsciously disregarded their rights. However, the Court finds that the allegations in the FAC alleging Defendants’ repair attempts demonstrate the opposite of a conscious disregard of Plaintiff’s rights. The fact that the repair attempts were unsuccessful does not transform the situation into one done in malice.Accordingly, the Court GRANTS with leave to amend Defendants’ motion to strike (1) the entirety of paragraph 54, (2) item 5 in the prayer for relief, and (3) item 6 in the prayer for relief.The Court does not agree that the use of the words “willingly” and “intentionally” reflect irrelevant, false, or improper matter to be stricken. Accordingly, the Court DENIES Defendants’ motion to strike the remaining portions of the FAC.Lastly, in opposition, Plaintiff’s argue their prayer for attorney’s fees is supported. Defendants’ demurrer and motion to strike did not address attorney’s fees.