 Case Number:  24NWCV00343    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  SEC GALICIA, ET AL. V. HAWAIIAN GARDENS CASINO, ET AL.CASE NO.: 24NWCV00343HEARING: 12/11/2024#7TENTATIVE ORDERI. Plaintiffs Maria De Galicia, Cynthia Crowell, and the Estate of Anacleto de Galicia’s motion for leave to amend is GRANTED.II. Plaintiffs are ORDERED to file the amended complaint attached to this motion within 20 days of this order.Moving party to give notice.Plaintiffs Maria De Galicia, Cynthia Crowell, and the Estate of Anacleto de Galicia move for leave to file a first amended complaint (FAC).BackgroundThis is a wrongful death and survival action. On January 31, 2024, Maria De Galicia, Cynthia Crowell, and the Estate of Anacleto de Galicia, by and through its successor-in-interest, Maria De Galicia (Plaintiffs) filed a complaint against Hawaiian Gardens Casino and Juanito Guevarra Param (Defendants). Plaintiffs allege causes of action for negligence and premises liability. Plaintiffs allege Defendant Param struck decedent Anacleto Gonzales De Galicia (Decedent) with a motor vehicle in Defendants’ parking lot, resulting in his death.On June 7, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a Declaration of Cynthia Crowell for Appointment as Decedent’s Successor in Interest following Plaintiff Maria De Galicia’s assignment and release of her rights.On August 20, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the instant motion for leave to amend to reflect the change in Decedent’s successor-in-interest. On December 11, 2024, Defendant Hawaiian Gardens Casino filed a notice of non-opposition.Legal StandardCalifornia Rules of Court rule 3.1324(a) provides: A motion to amend a pleading before trial must:(1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments;(2) State what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and(3) State what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located.California Rules of Court rule 3.1324(b) requires a separate declaration accompany the motion. The separate declaration must include: (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons the request for amendment was not made earlier. (Cal. Rules of Court rule 3.1324(b).)“If the motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and where the refusal also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error but an abuse of discretion.” (Morgan v. Superior Court of California (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.)DiscussionPlaintiffs seek leave to amend to file a FAC to reflect a change in the successor of interest for the Estate of Anacleto Gonzales De Galicia.Plaintiffs have complied with California Rules of Court rule 3.1324(a). Plaintiffs include a redlined copy of the proposed FAC describing the amendments to the complaint. (Chackel Decl., Exh. A.)Plaintiffs have included a separate declaration in compliance with California Rules of Court rule 3.1324(b). In the declaration, counsel for Plaintiffs explains the proposed amendment substitutes Plaintiff Cynthia Crowell as successor in interest to the Estate of Anacleto Gonzales De Galicia in place of Maria De Galicia. (Chackel Decl., ¶ 5.) Counsel explains this change was not made earlier because he was not aware of Maria De Galicia’s assignment to her daughter, Cynthia Crowell, to be appointed as successor in interest. (Chackel Decl., ¶ 6.) There is no prejudice against Defendants because trial has not yet been scheduled and there is still time for discovery.Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ unopposed motion for leave to amend is GRANTED. Plaintiffs are ORDERED to file the amended complaint attached to this motion within 20 days of this order.