 Case Number:  23STCP00970    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of
California
County
of Los Angeles
 



 
Therese
  Reinhardt and Alan Reinhardt,
 
                             Plaintiffs,
 
                              vs.
The
  Legendary Partnership, Luke Caldwell, Krystine Wills, and Steven Wills,
 
                              Defendants.


Case No.: 23STCP00970
  
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed: 03/27/2023
[1st
  Amended Complaint Filed: N/A]
Trial
  Date: N/A  



 
Hearing Date:              September 6, 2024 
Moving
Party:             Defendants
Krystine Wills and Steven Wills
Responding
Party:      Plaintiffs
Therese and Alan Reinhardt
Motion:
                     2 Motions to Set
Aside/Vacate Judgment
Tentative
Ruling: The
Court considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply. The motions are DENIED. 

 

Background
            This
case stems from allegations of a loan that was given, but never paid back. In
May of 2016, Alan and Therese Reinhardt (Plaintiffs) loaned $50,000.00 to Luke
Caldwell, Steven Wills, Krystin Wills, and the Legendary, a general
partnership, who failed to repay the loan. In 2018 Plaintiffs filed suit in the
Circuit Court for Arlington County, Virginia. A hearing was set for June 15,
2018 for a Motion for Entry of Default Judgment. On that date the Virginia
court continued the hearing to August 3, 2018 to allow all defendants to retain
counsel. By August 3, 2018 Steven and Krystin Wills (Moving Defendants) failed
to file any response and failed to appear at the hearing. The Virginia Court
then entered default judgment in the amount of $96,785.80 as to all defendants
jointly and severally. (See Opposition Papers, Exh. B) Plaintiffs then obtained
a sister-state judgment against all defendants in California. 
            The
motions now before this Court are Steven Wills’ Motion to Vacate/Set Aside
Judgment and Krystin Wills’ Motion to Vacate/Set Aside Judgment (collectively,
the Motions). Plaintiffs file one opposition to both motions; Moving Defendants
file a reply.
Discussion
Legal Standard
Code of Civil
Procedure section 473(b) provides: 
"The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or
his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other
proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect....” 
            Judges
must vacate dismissals, default entries, and default judgments “whenever (1) an
application is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, (2) the
application is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, and (3) the attorney's
mistake, inadvertence, surprise or neglect in fact caused the dismissal or
entry of default.” (Benedict v. Danner Press  (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 923, 927 (citing CCP
§473(b)). Also see Wagner v. Wagner (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 249, 258.)
            Where
counsel seek relief alternatively under both the excusable and attorney-fault
provisions of Code of Civil Procedure Section 473 and confirms that any act or
omission leading to the entry of the default was done without the client's
knowing participation, relief is mandatory. (Solv-All v. Sup. Ct. (2005)
131 Cal.App.4th 1003, 1012. Under Code of Civil Procedure Section 473,
"surprise" means “‘“some condition or situation in which a party . .
. is unexpectedly placed to his injury, without any default or negligence of
his own, which ordinary prudence could not have guarded against.”’”  (State Farm Fire & Casualty Co. v.
Pietak (2001) 90 Cal. App. 4th 600, 611.)
 
Analysis
            Preliminarily, Moving Defendants do
not cite which statute they are filing their Motions under. However, Moving
Defendants both contend the Default Judgment entered on August 3, 2018 by the
Virginia Court should be vacated because the initial loan agreement was between
Luke Caldwell and Plaintiffs, not Moving Defendants. 
            Upon
opposition, Plaintiffs note that the Default Judgment was entered as to both
Moving Defendants, and Plaintiffs further contend that Moving Defendants waived
their rights to contest the Virginia Court’s Default Judgment, and the same
Virginia Court agreed. On a July 12, 2024 hearing addressing Moving Defendants attempt
to vacate the Default Judgment the Court noted: 
“There is no
relief the Court can grant. They were -- whether they were served or not, they
appeared in court and made a general appearance. They requested additional
time, nor to hire an attorney, to file a response to pleading, and if that was
an error, then they could have filed a responsible pleading themselves or they
could have shown up and put on evidence as to why there shouldn't be a general
partner, or whatever the other issue is being raised. All that could have been
addressed, and should have been addressed, back in 2018. They clearly sat on
their rights here.”
            This
Court agrees. Moreover, independent of the Virginia Court’s analysis, there is
no basis for vacating the Default Judgment. Upon reply, Moving Defendants argue
that the hearing should at least be continued because a notice of appeal was
filed on August 5, 2024 to contest the Virginia Court’s Default Judgment
ruling. However, the instant Motions to Vacate are an improper vehicle for a
request for continuance. If the appeal is successful, Plaintiffs will have
grounds to file a renewed motion to vacate here with this Court. Until then,
the instant Motions are denied.  
Conclusion
            Accordingly,
Steven Wills’ Motion to Vacate/Set Aside Judgment and Krystin Wills’ Motion to
Vacate/Set Aside Judgment are DENIED. 
  
It is so ordered.
 
Dated: September 6, 2024
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the
Superior Court
 