  Case Number:  20STCV34421    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of
California
County
of Los Angeles
 



SHAILA MANTRI, an individual; SUBHASH
MANTRI,
  an individual,
                                                 
  
                                               
  Plaintiff,
vs.
 
THOSE
  CERTAIN UNDERWRITERS AT
LLOYD’S,
  LONDON SUBSCRIBING TO
POLICY
  NUMBER HGB0140086; JOAN
SCHULTZ
  INSURANCE AGENCY, a business
entity,
  form unknown; JOAN ALLYN
SCHULTZ,
  an individual; WASHINGTON &
FINNEGAN,
  INC., a California corporation;
and
  DOES 1-100, inclusive,
 
                                                
  Defendants.
 


Case No.:  20STCV34421 
  
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed: 09/09/2020 
[1st
  Amended Complaint Filed: N/A]
Trial
  Date: 03/03/2025  



 
Hearing Date:              September
6, 2024
Moving Party:             Defendants Those Certain Underwriters
At Lloyd’s, London Subscribing To Policy Number Hgb0140086 And Washington &
Finnegan, Inc.
Responding
Party:      Plaintiffs
Shaila Mantri, Subhash Mantri
Motion:                      Defendants’ Motion to Compel Further Responses
to Request for Production of Documents, Set 2
Tentative
Ruling: The
Court considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply. Defendants Those Certain Underwriters At Lloyd’s, London
Subscribing To Policy Number Hgb0140086 And Washington & Finnegan, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request
for Production of Documents, Set 2 is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part. The Motion is granted as to requests 23 and 24 but denied as to request
28.

 

Background
Shaila Mantri
and Subhash Mantri (Plaintiffs) filed this action on September 9, 2020 against
defendants Those Certain Underwriters At Lloyd’s, London Subscribing To Policy Number
HGB0140086 (or “Lloyd’s”); Joan Allyn Schultz dba Joan Schultz Insurance Agency
(erroneously sued as two separate entities); and Washington & Finnegan,
Inc. (WF), alleging causes of action for (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Breach of
the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (3) Negligence; (4)
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; (5) Professional Negligence; and
(6) Fraud.
The Complaint
alleges the following: Plaintiffs’ home was burglarized on November 30, 2019. (Compl., ¶ 1.) Plaintiffs submitted a claim to
their insurance carrier, Lloyd’s. (Id. at ¶ 1.) Instead of investigating,
adjusting, and paying the claim in a timely and reasonable manner, Lloyd’s
unreasonably and in bad faith disputed the veracity and extent of the claim,
ignored reliable documents that support the claim, and has thus far paid
Plaintiffs nothing. (Id. at ¶ 1.) Further, Plaintiffs learned that their insurance
broker for their insurance policy, Joan Schultz Insurance Agency, negligently
and fraudulently obtained woefully inadequate insurance coverage for
Plaintiffs’ personal property. (Id. at ¶ 2.) Schultz negligently and
fraudulently represented to Plaintiffs that they could only obtain personal
property coverage with a limit of $300,000. (Id. at ¶ 2.)
The motion now before the Court is Defendants
Those Certain Underwriters At Lloyd’s, London Subscribing To Policy Number
Hgb0140086 And Washington & Finnegan, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of
Documents, Set 2 (the Motion). Plaintiff opposes the Motion; Defendants
Those Certain Underwriters At Lloyd’s, London Subscribing To Policy Number Hgb0140086
And Washington & Finnegan, Inc. (Moving Defendants) file a reply.
 
Discussion
Legal Standard
The propounding
party may bring motions to compel inspection or further responses to
interrogatories or requests for production if it believes (1) the responses
received are evasive, or (2) incomplete, or (3) if the objections raised are
meritless or too general. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.300(a), 2031.310(a).) A
respondent has the burden to justify objections in response to a motion filed
to compel further responses. (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000)
22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)   
            The
court shall impose a monetary sanction…against any party, person, or attorney
who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. §§2030.300(d).)
Analysis
            At
issue with the instant Motion are Request Numbers 23, 24, and 28. Each of these
request Plaintiff’s financial information such as bank statements, statements
for investment accounts, and documents evidencing attorney’s fees. Moving
Defendants contend Plaintiffs placed their financial status at-issue by
alleging Defendants harmed them financially because of the alleged inadequate
insurance, professional negligence, and refusal to adequately pay the claim. 
            Plaintiffs
object to the Request Numbers at issue arguing the requests invade a
well-recognized zone of privacy. The Court agrees as to Request Numbers 23 and
24, however, under Byers v. Superior Court (2024) 101 Cal.App.5th
1003, 1011, Moving Defendants may seek discovery with regard to attorney fees
when an insured is suing their insurer. Therefore, the Court denies the Motion
with regard to Request Numbers 23 and 24 but grants the Motion as to Request
Number 28. 
a)     
Request Number 23 and 24
           
Plaintiff’s
assert that the inquiries here into their personal financial information are prohibited
because Plaintiffs have a constitutional right to privacy in their finances
guaranteed by the California Constitution, citing Valley Bank of Nevada v.
Superior Court (1975) 15 Cal.3d 652, 656. The Court agrees. “Although the scope of civil discovery is broad, it is not limitless.” (Calcor
Space Facility v. Superior Court, (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216,
233.) Even highly relevant, nonprivileged information may be shielded from
discovery if its disclosure would impair a person's “inalienable right of
privacy” provided by the California Constitution.
A court must
balance the need for discovery with the right of privacy. Our state Supreme
Court created a three-step test for just such an occasion. “The party asserting
a privacy right must establish a legally protected privacy interest, an
objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a
threatened intrusion that is serious. (Williams v. Superior Court (2017)
3 Cal.5th 531, 552, citing Hill.) “The party seeking
information may raise in response whatever legitimate and important
countervailing interests disclosure serves, while the party seeking protection
may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or protective
measures that would diminish the loss of privacy. A court must then balance
these competing considerations.” (Id.) 
Here, Plaintiffs have asserted their
legally protected privacy interest in their financial information. Although
Moving Defendants assert the information will inform them of whether Plaintiffs
actually suffered financial harm, this is not sufficient to overcome the right
to privacy. Moreover, the causes of action are for (1)
Breach of Contract; (2) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing;
(3) Negligence; (4) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress (IIED); (5)
Professional Negligence; and (6) Fraud.[1]
The moving papers fail to explain how the financial information will assist in
defending against the current allegations, outside of showing Plaintiffs’
finances. Therefore, the Motion is denied as to Request Number 23 and 24.                
b)     
Request Number 28
However, with
regard to Request Number 28, Byers allows a party to seek discovery with
regard to attorney fees. The Byers Court reasoned that to the extent a
request into attorney fees invades attorney-client privilege, that privilege is
waived as to attorney fess information when attorney fees are an element of the
damages. (Byers, supra, at 1011.) Therefore, the Motion is granted as to
Request Number 28.
Conclusion
            Accordingly,
Defendants Those Certain Underwriters At Lloyd’s, London Subscribing To Policy
Number Hgb0140086 And Washington & Finnegan, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents,
Set 2 is GRANTED in part and
DENIED in part. The Motion is
granted as to requests 23 and 24 but denied as to request 28.
 
 
 
It is so ordered.
 
Dated: September 6, 2025
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the
Superior Court
 


