  Case Number:  20STCP03720    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  85 
Feah, LLC v. City of El
Monte, et al., 20STCP03720
Tentative decision on motion to amend Judgment: granted in part for clerical
error



            
 
            
            Petitioner
Feah, LLC (“Feah”) moves to amend the Judgment and rectify a clerical error so that
the Judgment reflects Feah’s prior dismissal of various causes of action with
prejudice.
The court has read and considered the moving papers, opposition,[1] and
reply, and renders the following tentative decision.
 
            A. Statement of the Case
            1.
Petition
            Petitioner
Feah commenced this proceeding on November 9, 2020 against Respondent City of
El Monte (“City”) and Real Parties-in-Interest EEL–El Monte (“EEL”), Nibble
This–El Monte (“Nibble”),[2]
and Light Box Leasing Corp. (“Light Box”). 
The operative pleading is the Second Amended Petition (“SAP”), filed on
March 30, 2021 and alleging causes of action for (1) traditional mandamus, (2) violation
of equal protection and due process, (3) unlawful fee, and (4) inverse
condemnation.[3]  The verified SAP alleges in pertinent part as
follows. 
            Feah
is an unsuccessful applicant for one of six retail storefront commercial
cannabis licenses issued by the City. 
The City did not follow its Guidelines when scoring the applications,
favored certain applicants based on campaign contributions and personal
relationships, illegally rewrote the finalized grading rubric to ensure favored
applicants would receive licenses, illegally changed scores to ensure favored
applicants would win, and made obvious scoring and mathematical calculation
errors that prejudiced Feah’s application.
            On
December 3, 2019, the City Council adopted Ordinance No. 2960, codified in El
Monte Municipal Code (“EMMC”) sections 5.18.010 et seq. (the
“Ordinance”), which authorized adult-use and medicinal commercial cannabis
retail, cultivation, manufacturing, distribution, and testing in the City.  The City promulgated the Guidelines pursuant
to the Ordinance.  The Guidelines outlined
a detailed, step-by-step process for preparing and submitting commercial
cannabis business applications to the City. 
The Guidelines also set out detailed Evaluation Criteria to be used in
scoring and evaluating applications.  The
Guidelines required that a “third-party consultant review[] each application in
detail and scores the applications based on the Evaluation Criteria.”
            On
June 15, 2020, Feah submitted its application and paid a fee of
$20,371.19.  To obtain the location
necessary for the application, Feah entered into a Binding Term Sheet for
Future Lease Agreement with a landowner which required a non-refundable $50,000
deposit.  The lease was contingent upon
Feah obtaining a retail cannabis license. 
Feah lost the lease and the deposit when it did not receive a retail
cannabis license.
The City received 19 applications for a cannabis license.  The Ordinance imposes a ministerial duty on
the City to reject incomplete applications. 
The City reviewed the applications and determined that only 16
applications were complete.  The 16
applications, including Feah’s application, moved to the Phase 3 scoring
process.
            On
July 7, 2020, the City entered into a contract with SCI Consulting Group
(“SCI”) for the processing of cannabis applications based on evaluation
criteria approved by the City.  The City
failed to comply with the Guidelines by assigning City staff, rather than SCI,
to score certain sections of the applications. 
The City staff intervened to redo SCI’s scores and rewrite the grading
rubric to ensure that favored applicants would win licenses.  The City prematurely issued licenses to the
winners and made obvious errors in scoring Feah’s application.  The winning applicants also made campaign
donations to ensure their applications would be in the top six.
            The
City failed to carry out its ministerial duty to comply with the Ordinance and
the Guidelines by improperly scoring the applications and bit also provided preferential
treatment to certain applicants.  The
Lewis Group colluded to make the exact same Community Benefits contribution,
and their applications should be rejected for this collusion.  The City’s method of scoring was in direct
conflict with the Guidelines, which required that all applications be scored in
their entirety by a neutral third-party consultant.  The City’s failure to comply with this
requirement violated Feah’s right to due process.  
 
            2.
Course of Proceedings
            On
November 18, 2020, the court denied Feah’s ex parte application for a temporary
restraining order and order to show cause re: preliminary injunction.  
            On
January 8, 2021, the court declined to relate the instant case and Case No.
20STCP04044 pursuant to CRC 3.300(a).  
            On
April 6, 2021, the court stayed the SAP’s sixth cause of action for inverse
condemnation.  The court ordered the
parties to meet and cover to discuss every issue raised in a discovery motion
and the City indicated that it would provide a privilege log.  
            On
May 18, 2021, the court noted that discovery had been stayed by EEL’s
anti-SLAPP motion.  On August 10, 2021,
the court granted in limited part the anti-SLAPP motion and lifted the
discovery stay.
            On
September 8, 2021, Real Party EEL filed a notice of appeal of the court’s
decision on the anti-SLAPP motion.  Real
Parties Nibble, Light Box, Summit Location Plans, and Feah also filed notices
of appeal from the court’s decision on the anti-SLAPP motion.  
            On
November 4, 2021, the court granted Real Party EEL’s motion for attorney’s fees
against Feah for $13,606.70.
            On
August 9, 2022, the appellate court issued remittiturs dismissing the appeals
of Real Parties EEL and Nibble.  On
November 1, 2022, the appellate court issued a remittitur dismissing Feah’s
appeal.
            On
January 26, 2023, EEL filed its Answer. 
On January 30, 2023, Real Parties Light Box and Summit Location Plans
filed a joint Answer.[4]
            On
February 8, 2023, Real Party Nibble filed its Answer.
            On
June 20, 2023, the City filed an Answer. 
On July 7, 2023, the court denied Feah’s ex parte application to
strike the City’s Answer.
            On
September 26, 2023, the court denied the SAP.[5]
            On
October 10, 2023, the court denied Feah’s motion for sanctions against the City
except in the limited amount of $2,000.
            On
November 7, 2023, the court entered Judgment denying five causes of action
under the SAP and dismissing the sixth without prejudice.
            On
December 18, 2023, Feah appealed the decision.
            On
January 22, 2024, Feah filed a dismissal of the SAP’s sixth cause of action with
prejudice.
            On
January 25, 2024, Feah filed a dismissal of the SAP’s second and fourth causes
of action with prejudice.
            On
February 1, 2024, the court denied Feah’s ex parte application to amend
the November 7, 2023 Judgment, ruling that it had no jurisdiction until a
remittitur was issued.
 
            B.
Applicable Law
A court of general jurisdiction has power after final
judgment and regardless of lapse of time to correct clerical errors or
misprisions in its records, whether made by the clerk, counsel or the court
itself, so that such records will conform to and speak the truth.  In re Roberts, (1962) 200 Cal.App.2d
95, 97; People v. Bueno (1960) 177 Cal.App.2d 235.  This inherent power of the court is not
suspended by the pendency of an appeal or a habeas corpus proceeding.  In re Roberts, supra, 200
Cal.App.2d at 97.
Trial courts have the authority to enter nunc pro tunc
orders to address clerical errors, but not judicial errors.  Sannmann v. Department of Justice, (“Sannmann”)
(2020) 47 Cal.App.5th 676, 683 (citing People v. Kim (2012) 212
Cal.App.4th 117, 124). A nunc pro tunc order or judgment is one entered
as of a time prior to the actual entry, so that it is treated as effective at
the earlier date. In re Marriage of Padgett (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 830, 851.  This retroactive entry is an exercise of
inherent power of the court, the object being to do justice to a litigant whose
rights are threatened by a delay that is not the litigant's fault.  Id.
            A
court has the inherent power to correct clerical errors in its records so as to
make these records reflect the true facts.  In re Candelario, (“Calendario”)
(1970) 3 Cal.3d 702, 705.  The
distinction between clerical and judicial error lies in whether the error was
made in rendering the judgment, or in recording the judgment rendered.  Sannmann, supra, 47 Cal.App.5th
at 683.  Clerical error, however, is to
be distinguished from judicial error which cannot be corrected by amendment.  Id.; Sannmann, supra, 47
Cal.App.5th at 683; 46 Am.Jur.2d, Judgments, §202.  
Any attempt by a court to revise its deliberately exercised
judicial discretion under the guise of correcting clerical error is not
permitted.  Calendario, supra,
3 Cal.3d at 705.  An amendment that
substantially modifies the original judgment or materially alters the rights of
the parties may not be made by the court under its authority to correct
clerical error, unless the record clearly demonstrates that the error was not
the result of the exercise of judicial discretion.  Calendario, supra, 3 Cal.3d at
705; Morgan v. State Bd. of Equalization (1949) 89 Cal.App.2d 674, 682.
            
            C. Statement of Facts
            1. Feah’s Evidence
            On November 9, 2020, Feah filed its
Petition alleging six causes of action. 
Hong Decl., ¶2.  On March 30,
2021, Feah filed the SAP.  Hong Decl., ¶¶
2, 9, Ex. D.  The SAP explained that the Petition’s
second and fourth causes of action, traditional mandamus claims for violations
of the Dormant Commerce Clause and the EMMC, were withdrawn without prejudice in
response to a meet and confer before a demurrer.  Hong Decl., ¶9, Ex. D.
            On September 26, 2023, this court issued
a decision denying all causes of actions from the SAP currently before it.  Hong Decl., ¶4, Ex. A (“Decision”).  A footnote in the Decision’s Statement of the
Case acknowledged the SAP’s withdrawal of the Petition’s second and fourth
causes of action, but said it was with prejudice.  Decision, p. 1.  Of the remaining causes of action, the final
inverse condemnation claim remained. Decision, p. 37.  The court ordered counsel to discuss whether
Feah would continue to pursue the inverse condemnation claim, and to prepare a
proposed Judgment if it decided not to do so. 
Decision, p. 37.  
            On November 7, 2023, the court
entered the Judgment stating the SAP’s first five causes of action were denied,
and the sixth cause was dismissed without prejudice.  Hong Decl., ¶¶ 5-6, Ex. B.  The proposed Judgment had said the first five
causes of action were dismissed with prejudice. 
Hong Decl., ¶5, Ex. B.  
            On December 18, 2023, Feah filed
notice that it was appealing the Judgment. 
Hong Decl., ¶7, Ex. C.  Feah’s
counsel only noticed the Judgment’s dismissal of the sixth cause without
prejudice after it filed an appeal.  Hong
Decl., ¶¶ 7-8.  
            In January 2024, Feah dismissed the
second, fourth, and sixth causes of action. 
Hong Decl., ¶¶ 16-17, Exs. G-H.  On
January 31, 2024, Feah applied ex parte to amend the Judgment as
discussed in this motion, including to reflect the recent dismissals of three
causes of action.  Hong Decl., ¶18.  On February 1, the court denied the ex
parte application and set a hearing for the motion.  Hong Decl., ¶19.  
            A dismissal of a cause of action
without prejudice keeps a cause of action legally alive, subject to the statute
of limitations.  Hong Decl., ¶10.  Feah wants to ensure there are no issues
concerning appealability and sought to dismiss all remaining causes of action
“with prejudice.” Hong Decl., ¶¶ 10-11.  Feah
has supplied the court with a new proposed Judgment correcting this error nunc
pro tunc, listing the second, fourth, and sixth causes of action as dismissed
with prejudice and the rest denied.  Hong
Decl., ¶11; Mot. Ex. A.  This would allow
the pending appeal to continue unimpeded without any potential threat of future
questions regarding appealability raised in the proceedings.  Hong Decl., ¶11.
            In January 2024, Feah met and
conferred with the City via email about its intent to request amendment of the Judgment.  Hong Decl., ¶13, Ex. E.  After various emails, the City called the
application an “idle act” on January 30, 2024. 
Hong Decl., ¶13, Ex. E.  
            In Kurwa v. Kislinger, (“Kurwa”)
(2013) 57 Cal.4th 1097, 1105 (Hong Decl., Ex. F), the court held that
when some causes of action are voluntarily dismissed but the parties agree to
preserve them for potential litigation upon conclusion of the appeal from the judgment
rendered, the trial court’s judgment fails to complete the disposition of all
the causes of action between the parties. 
Hong Decl., ¶13.  This means such
a judgment is not appealable.  Hong
Decl., ¶13.
            Here, there was no agreement to
waive an applicable statute of limitations. 
Hong Decl., ¶14.  Feah does not
plan to resurrect any cause of action previously dismissed without
prejudice.  Hong Decl., ¶15.  To the extent that any dismissed cause of
action without prejudice is legally live, Feah wants to ensure the court’s Judgment
is truly final and there are no lingering claims.  Hong Decl., ¶15.  
            This motion does not seek to substantively
alter the Judgment or its effect.  Hong
Decl., ¶20.  It seeks only to ensure that
all efforts have been exhausted in the trial court and confirm the November 7,
2023 Judgment is truly final for appealability purposes.  Hong Decl., ¶20.  This will also give the appellate court a full
and complete record of all efforts undertaken to ensure there is no lingering
issue regarding appealability.  Hong
Decl., ¶20.  
 
            2. City’s Evidence
            On October 25, 2023, Feah emailed
that it would dismiss the sixth cause of action for inverse condemnation.  Pilchen Nov. 2023 Decl., ¶3.  On October 27, the City gave Feah a “first
look” at the City’s proposed Judgment. 
Pilchen Nov. 2023 Decl., ¶4, Ex. BB. 
On October 31, Feah asked the City to amend the proposed Judgment so that
the sixth cause of action was dismissed without prejudice and the rest were
dismissed with prejudice.  Pilchen Nov.
2023 Decl., ¶4, Ex. BB.  The City made
this change, and Feah approved it later that day.  Pilchen Nov. 2023 Decl., ¶4, Ex. BB.  
            Also on October 31, the City served
all parties with the proposed Judgment. 
Pilchen Nov. 2023 Decl., ¶¶ 2, 5, Ex. AA.  As Feah requested, the proposed Judgment said
the sixth cause of action was dismissed without prejudice and the rest were
dismissed with prejudice.  Pilchen Nov.
2023 Decl., Ex. AA.  Each party sent the
City an email of non-objection.  Pilchen
Nov. 2023 Decl., ¶5.
 
            D.
Analysis
            The
court’s Judgment states that the SAP’s first five causes of action are denied,
and the sixth cause is dismissed without prejudice.  Hong Decl., ¶¶ 5-6, Ex. B.  Feah moves to amend the Judgment to state the
SAP’s second, fourth, and sixth cause of action are dismissed with prejudice.  Mot. Ex. A.
 
            1.
Jurisdiction
            On
December 18, 2023, Feah filed notice that it had appealed this court’s Judgment.  Hong Decl., ¶7, Ex. C.  The perfecting of an appeal stays proceedings
in the trial court upon the Judgment or order appealed from or upon the matters
embraced therein or affected thereby, including enforcement of the Judgment or
order.  CCP §916(a).  The trial court may proceed upon any other
matter embraced in the action and not affected by the Judgment or order.  Id.
            The
court (Judge Beckloff) previously denied Feah’s ex parte application to
amend the Judgment.  Hong Decl., ¶¶
18-19.  As the City notes, one reason for
the denial was the court’s lack of jurisdiction while the case is appeal.  The City asserts that the court has no
jurisdiction to hear this motion while the appeal is pending.  Opp. at 2.  
The City cites Varian Medical Systems, Inc. v. Delfino,
(“Varian”) (2005) 35 Cal.4th 180, 187, 196, in which the California
Supreme Court held that while the denial of an anti-SLAPP motion was on appeal,
the trial court lacked subject matter jurisdiction over the matters on trial.  The trial court is divested of jurisdiction
of the subject matter during the period of review, and it has no power to
vacate or modify the Judgment or otherwise to deal with the cause.  Id. at 197.  This is true even if the subsequent
proceedings cure any purported defect in the Judgment or order appealed from.  Id. 
Opp. at 2.  
            Feah
does cite a case that addresses jurisdiction, In re Roberts, supra,
200 Cal.App.2d at 97, which held that a trial court has inherent power to
correct clerical errors in its Judgment that is not suspended by the pendency
of an appeal.  Mot. at 5.  Clerical errors only involve errors in
recording the Judgment actually rendered. 
Sannmann, supra, 47 Cal.App.5th at 683.  Varian does not refute this
jurisdiction for clerical error.  If the
requested amendments address clerical errors, this court has jurisdiction to amend
the Judgment.
 
            2.
Merits
            Trial
courts have the authority to enter nunc pro tunc orders to address
clerical errors, but not judicial errors. 
Sannmann, supra, 47 Cal.App.5th at 683.  The distinction between clerical error and
judicial error is whether the error was made in rendering the Judgment, or in
recording the Judgment rendered.  Id.
at 683.  Any attempt by a court to revise
its deliberately exercised judicial discretion, under the guise of correcting
clerical error, is not permitted.  Calendario,
supra, 3 Cal.3d at 705.
            On
November 9, 2020, Feah filed its Petition alleging six causes of action.  Hong Decl., ¶2.  On March 30, 2021, Feah filed an SAP stating
that the second and fourth causes of action are withdrawn without
prejudice.  Hong Decl., ¶¶ 2, 9, Ex.
D.  
            On September 26, 2023, the court issued
a Decision denying the first five causes of actions.  Decision, p. 37.  This did not include the sixth cause of
action for inverse condemnation, and the parties were ordered to discuss
whether Feah would continue to pursue the sixth claim.  Decision, p. 37.  
            On November 7, 2023, the court
entered the Judgment stating that the SAP’s first five causes of action are
denied, and the sixth cause is dismissed without prejudice.  Hong Decl., ¶¶ 5-6, Ex. B.  Feah noticed the dismissal of the sixth cause
without prejudice after it filed an appeal. 
Hong Decl., ¶¶ 7-8.  
            Feah now asks the court to amend the
Judgment to state that the first, third and fifth causes of action are denied
and the second, fourth, and sixth causes of action are dismissed with
prejudice.  Mot. Ex. A.  Although Feah provides evidence that it
dismissed these three claims with prejudice in January 2024 (Hong Decl., Exs.
G-H), the purported dismissals are irrelevant to whether the Judgment contains
a clerical error.  The Judgment lacks a
clerical error if in fact the second and fourth causes of action were denied,
and the sixth was denied without prejudice, as of November 7, 2023.
            There was no clerical error for the
sixth cause of action.  The court never
adjudicated that cause of action, and the court gave Feah time to decide whether
it wanted to pursue it.  After Feah
decided not to do so, the City gave Feah a “first look” at the City’s proposed Judgment.  Feah stated that it intended to dismiss the
sixth cause of action without prejudice. 
Pilchen Nov. 2023 Decl., ¶4, Ex. BB. 
Feah then accepted the City’s language to that effect in the proposed Judgment.  Id. 
When the court signed the Judgment, it amended the language for the first
five causes to reflect their denial and not dismissal, but it made no change to
the parties’ proposed language for the sixth cause. Feah cannot now amend the Judgment
to state that the sixth cause of action is dismissed with prejudice because
there was no clerical error by the court. 

            There was a clerical error for the second
and fourth causes of action,[6]
but not the error Feah alleges.  The SAP
withdrew both causes of action without prejudice.  Hong Decl., ¶9, Ex. D.  (Feah should have dismissed these two causes
and not simply withdrawn them, and it failed to do so.)  A footnote in the Decision states that the SAP
withdrew the second and fourth causes of action with prejudice.  Decision, p. 1.  This was incorrect.  These two causes of action were never were
dismissed before trial with prejudice. 
Nor were they decided on the merits by the court.  Thus, there is a clerical error in the Judgment
stating that the second and fourth causes of action are denied, when they should
have been dismissed without prejudice just like the sixth cause of action.
            Feah argues that the failure to
resolve all claims with the finality of prejudice could make the Judgment
unappealable under Kurwa, supra, 57 Cal.4th at 1105.  Hong Decl., ¶¶ 13, 15.  The City responds that Kurwa has no
application because, unlike that case, the City and Feah have no tolling
agreement to revive the claims after appeal. 
Opp. at 3-4.  This seems plainly
correct, but it is also irrelevant to the court’s decision on clerical error.
 
            E.
Conclusion
            The
motion to amend the Judgment is granted solely to correct a clerical error.  The Judgment is ordered to be amended to
reflect that the second and fourth causes of action are dismissed without
prejudice, not that they are denied. 


