 Case Number:  BC595770    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2023    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



KENNETH D. RICKEL, an individual,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
MARTIN W. ENRIGHT, ESQ., an individual; LITTMAN KROOKS, LLP, a
  New York limited liability partnership; and DOES 1 through 20, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          BC595770
 Hearing Date:   10/16/23
 Trial Date:        1/30/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendants Martin
  W. Enright and Littman Krooks, LLP’s Motion to Bifurcate Trial Regarding
  Whether Defendants Owed a Duty of Care.



 
Background
Plaintiff Kenneth D. Rickel sues Defendants Martin W. Enright, Esq. (Enright),
Littman Krooks, LLP (Littman Krooks), and Does 1 through 20 pursuant to a March
13, 2017 Second Amended Complaint (SAC) alleging claims of (1) Breach of
Fiduciary Duty, (2) Fraud, (3) Legal Malpractice, (4) Breach of Contract, (5)
Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage, and (6) Negligent
Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage.
The claims arise from allegations that, among other things, Plaintiff retained
Defendants as legal counsel for the creation of various entities: a hedge fund,
an investment adviser entity for the hedge fund, and a managing member entity
for the hedge fund. The SAC alleges that Plaintiff hired Defendants to perform
these services on behalf of Plaintiff, Plaintiff’s business partner (named
elsewhere as Alexander J. Davis, Plaintiff’s stepson), and their company (KA
Consolidated, LLC). The SAC further alleges that Defendants assisted
Plaintiff’s unnamed business partner (Davis) in creating and operating other
business entities that competed with and divested business opportunities from
KA Consolidated, resulting in breaches of fiduciary duties by Plaintiff’s
partner and Defendants, as well as diverted earnings of more than $10 million.
The action was originally assigned to Department 57 at the Stanley Mosk
Courthouse.
On May 23, 2022, Defendants Martin W. Enright, Esq. and Littman Krooks,
LLP (Defendants) made a motion to bifurcate trial regarding whether Defendants
owed a duty of care to Plaintiff. The motion was set for hearing on June 21,
2022.
On June 8, 2022, Defendants filed an amended notice for their motion,
which noticed a hearing date of December 1, 2022.
On November 16, 2022, Plaintiff opposed the motion to bifurcate.
On November 22, 2022, Defendants replied to the opposition.
On December 1, 2022, Department 57 continued the hearing on the motion to
bifurcate to February 16, 2023.
On February 16, 2023, Department 57 continued the motion to bifurcate to
March 27, 2023.
On February 22, 2023, there was a change of judicial officer in
Department 57.
That same day, Plaintiff Rickel made a peremptory challenge to the new
judicial officer in Department 57.
On March 1, 2023, this action was reassigned to Department 40 at the
Stanley Mosk Courthouse.
On March 2, 2023, Department 40 (the Court) set a case management
conference (CMC) for April 7, 2023.
On April 7, 2023, the Court scheduled a hearing on the motion to
bifurcate for October 16, 2023.
Defendants’ motion is now before the Court.
 
Request
for Judicial Notice
The Court takes judicial notice of (1)
the Complaint and a declaration by Plaintiff Rickel in Davis v. Rickel,
Los Angeles Superior Court case number 20SMCV01367 and (2) the Complaint
and various expert witness filings made in this case. (Mot., RJN, p. 2; Evid.
Code, § 452, subd. (d).)
 
Motion to Bifurcate
Legal
Standard
“The
court may, when the convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or the
economy and efficiency of handling the litigation would be promoted thereby, on
motion of a party, after notice and hearing, make an order, no later than the
close of pretrial conference in cases in which such pretrial conference is to
be held, or, in other cases, no later than 30 days before the trial date, that
the trial of any issue or any part thereof shall precede the trial of any other
issue or any part thereof in the case, except for special defenses which may be
tried first pursuant to Sections 597 and 597.5.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 598.)
“The
court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate
trials will be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a separate trial
of any cause of action … or of any separate issue or of any number of causes of
action or issues ….” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd. (b).)
Bifurcation
serves to (1) promote judicial economy by avoiding introduction and
consideration of unnecessary evidence; and (2) prevent the determination of
liability from being tainted by the consideration of irrelevant, confusing,
misleading, and prejudicial evidence related to the issue of damages. (Plaza
Tulare v. Tradewell Stores, Inc. (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 522, 524; see Foreman
& Clark Corp. v. Fallon (1971) 3 Cal.3d 875, 888, fn. 8 [Bifurcating
trial may be proper to achieve the purpose of affording a more logical
presentation of the evidence and simplifying the issues for the jury].)
Order
Bifurcating Trial: DENIED.
In
their motion, Defendants argue that bifurcation is in the interests of justice
because they never represented Plaintiff Rickel in any legal capacity.
Defendants contend that they instead represented a company named Disruptive
Technology Associates, LLC (a company operated by Plaintiff Rickel and
Alexander Davis for investment purposes), and that Defendants later represented
companies run by Alexander Davis alone. Defendants’ position is thus that if
they never served as legal counsel for Plaintiff Rickel, then Defendants never
owed any duties to Plaintiff Rickel, fatally undercutting his claims against
Defendants. Defendants also argue that a failure to bifurcate trial would
result in the need for unnecessary expert evidence. Defendants contend that
experts would be needed to establish the issues of breach of duty, damages, and
causation, and that the parties have already contracted the services of seven
experts for these purposes. Defendants last argue that a failure to bifurcate
would also necessitate testimony as to whether Plaintiff Rickel was even able
to participate in the business opportunities alleged to have been diverted from
Plaintiff with the help of Defendants, and whether Plaintiff’s claims against
Defendants are undercut by a 2014 settlement between Plaintiff Rickel and his
stepson, Alexander Davis. (Mot., pp. 4-5; Mot., RJN, Exs. 4-6 [expert
designations].)
In
opposition, Plaintiff Rickel argues that bifurcation will (1) waste, rather
than save, the Court’s time, (2) require the same witnesses to testify multiple
times, and (3) not promote judicial economy because the evidence to be offered
on Plaintiff’s malpractice-based claims is interrelated with and identical to
that evidence which Plaintiff will offer on his other legal theories asserting
damages for breach of fiduciary duty and interference claims. (Mot., pp. 3-12.)
In
reply, Defendants reiterate their position in their motion and dispute
Plaintiff’s arguments in opposition. (Reply, pp. 2-5.)
The
Court finds in favor of PLAINTIFF.
The
Court is not convinced that judicial economy would result from bifurcating
trial as to the question of duty. As argued by Defendants, if Defendants owe(d)
no duty of any kind to Plaintiff because they instead were hired to and did in
fact represent entities separate from Plaintiff, then there is no ground for
liability against Defendants. (See Reply, pp. 2-3.) However, Plaintiff argues
that there will be overlap in evidence and witnesses, including experts in
relation to the elements for his causes of action. The Court observes that bifurcation
is the exception, not the rule, and that proceeding in such a way can end up
absorbing more time than usual -- through both the need to litigate what is and
is not relevant to the first phase, as well as the need to call witnesses more
than once. Moreover, the Court is concerned that at least two of the causes of
action, the claims for intentional and negligent interference with prospective
economic relations, do not necessarily require a finding of duty in order for
the jury to find for the plaintiff. (See CACI 2022, 2204.) While Defendants
contend that the only way Plaintiff can show a wrongful act is by a breach of a
duty, the Court does not see how that is necessarily the case, given the
elements of the claims.  
Because
of the likelihood that bifurcation will not promote judicial economy in this
case, Defendants’ motion is DENIED. 

Conclusion
Defendants Martin W. Enright and
Littman Krooks, LLP’s Motion to Bifurcate Trial Regarding Whether Defendants
Owed a Duty of Care is DENIED. 