  Case Number:  22STCV03817    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2023    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



LESLIE HERRERA, an individual; GUILLERMO GARCIA, an individual;
  ANA MARIA GARCIA, an individual; MARIA GUADALUPE PONCE DE LEON an individual;
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
1155 N. MADISON AVE, LLC, a Delaware Limited Liability Company;
  AARON MARZWELL, an individual; KARPEL INVESTMENT GROUP, INC., a California
  Corporation doing business as KIG Capital Real Estate and KIG Property
  Management; MADISON SUNDANCE MANAGER, LLC, a Delaware Limited Liability Company;
  APPA REAL ESTATE, LLC, a Delaware Limited Liability Company; and DOES 3
  through 100, inclusive,
                        Defendants.
______________________________________
1155 N. MADISON AVE, LLC, a Delaware Limited Liability Company;
  AARON MARZWELL, an individual,
                        Cross-Complainants,
            v.
KARPEL INVESTMENT GROUP, INC., DBA KIG CAPITAL REAL ESTATE and
  KIO PROPERTY MANAGEMENT; and ROES 1 to 50, inclusive,
                        Cross-Defendants.
______________________________________
KARPEL INVESTMENT GROUP, INC. doing business as KIG Capital Real
  Estate and KIG Property Management,
                        Cross-Complainant,
            v.
1155 N. MADISON AVE, LLC a Delaware Limited Liability Company;
  AARON MARZWELL, an individual; and ROES 1 through 100, Inclusive,
                        Cross-Defendants.


 Case No.:          22STCV03817
 Hearing Date:   10/16/23
 Trial Date:        4/2/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiff Ana
  Maria Garcia’s Motion for Preliminary Injunction.



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Ana Maria
Garcia.
 
OPPOSITION:                     Defendant
Karpel Investment Group, Inc. [Opposition #1; Defendants Aaron Marzwell, 1155
N. Madison Ave, LLC, Madison Sundance Manager, LLC, and Appa Real Estate, LLC
[Opposition #2].
 
Background
Relevant Pleadings
Plaintiffs Leslie Herrera,
Guillermo Garcia, Ana Maria Garcia, and Maria Ponce de Leon—four separate
tenants living in the residential real property located at 1155 N. Madison
Ave., Los Angeles, CA, 90029 (Subject Property), with Ana Maria Garcia and Maria
Ponce de Leon both over the age of 65 years old—sue Defendants/Cross-Complainants/Cross-Defendants 1155 N. Madison Ave, LLC
(Madison) and Aaron Marzwell (Marzwell), Defendants Madison Sundance Manager,
LLC (Sundance), and Appa Real Estate, LLC (Appa), Defendants/Cross-Defendants/Cross-Complainants
Karpel Investment Group Inc. (KIG), and Does 1 through 100 pursuant to a May
15, 2023 First Amended Complaint (FAC) alleging claims of (1) Breach of Quiet
Enjoyment, (2) Nuisance, (3) Violation of Civil Code § 1942.5, (4) Violation of
Los Angeles Municipal Code § 151.10, (5) Violation of Los Angeles Municipal
Code § 45.30, et seq., (6) Violation of Fair Employment and Housing Act, (7)
Violation of Unruh Civil Rights Act – Cal Civ. Code §§ 51, et seq., (8)
Violation of the California Disabled Persons Act – Cal Civ. Code §§ 54-55.2,
(9) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress (IIED), and (10) Violation of
Business & Professions Code § 17200.
The claims arise from allegations that after acquiring ownership of the
Subject Property, Madison, through its agents, engaged in unlawful practices to
remove long-term Latino tenants from the building, including misrepresentations
that the building was going to be demolished coupled with statements that
buyout offers would not be extended to tenants that did not vacate the Subject
Property before demolition, as well as retaliation against tenants refusing
buyout offers—e.g., reduced services to rental units, intimidation by informing
Plaintiffs they were allegedly breaching their leases for trivial reasons like
maintenance of an emotional support animal, attempts to raise rent during times
of COVID-19 protections, removal of Plaintiffs’ storage units, removal of
Plaintiffs’ parking space allotment (including for disabled Ana Maria),
requirements to obtain renter’s insurance, failure to maintain functioning
laundry room services on the property, failure to make timely repairs in
Plaintiffs’ units, and refusal to allow pets to urinate in common areas such
that pets have been urinating near Ana Maria’s unit.
Defendant KIG is alleged to be the Subject Property’s management company.
Defendant Sundance is alleged to own Madison. Defendant Appa is alleged to own
Sundance. Defendant Marzwell is alleged to be Madison’s, Sundance’s, and Appa’s
ultimate owner and a person that directs these entities’ operations and
decisions.
Motion Before the Court
On September 19, 2023, Plaintiff
Ana Maria Garcia moved for affirmative injunctive relief in the form of an
order enjoining Defendants “to reasonably accommodate Plaintiff’s physical
disability by returning the use of a designated onsite parking space pending
resolution of the matter on the merits.”
On October 3, 2023, Defendant KIG
opposed Plaintiff Garcia’s motion.
On October 4, 2023, Defendants
Marzwell, Madison, Sundance, and Appa made a separate opposition to Plaintiff
Garcia’s motion.
On October 9, 2023, Plaintiff Garcia
replied to the oppositions.
Plaintiff Garcia’s motion for
preliminary injunction is now before the Court.
 
Motion for Preliminary Injunction

Legal Standard
An injunction is a writ or order
requiring a person to refrain from a particular act; it may be granted by the
court in which the action is brought, or by a judge thereof; and when granted
by a judge, it may be enforced as an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., §
525.) An injunction is an equitable remedy available generally in the
protection or to prevent the invasion of a legal right. (Meridian, Ltd. v.
City and County of San Francisco, et al. (May 5, 1939) 13 Cal.2d 424, 447,
as modified in Meridian, Ltd., v. San Francisco (Jun. 3, 1939) 13 Cal.2d
424.) Otherwise stated, an injunction may be more completely defined as a writ
or order commanding a person either to perform or desist from performing a
particular act. (See Comfort v. Comfort (1941) 17 Cal.2d 736, 741; McDowell
v. Watson (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 1155, 1160.) The courts look to the
substance of an injunction to determine whether it is prohibitory or mandatory.
(See, e.g., Agricultural Labor Relations Bd. v. Superior Court (1983)
149 Cal.App.3d 709, 713 [“… [The i]njunction before [Court] … is mandatory …
[because] [i]t compels [the party] to take affirmative action by terminating
present employees”].)
The purpose of a preliminary
injunction is to preserve the status quo pending final resolution upon trial. (Gray
v. Bybee (1943) 60 Cal.App.2d 564, 571; Major v. Miraverde Homeowners
Assn. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 618, 623; Grothe v. Cortlandt Corp.
(1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 1313, 1316.) Accordingly, a mandatory injunction—one that
mandates a party to affirmatively act—carries a heavy burden: “[t]he granting
of a mandatory injunction pending trial is not permitted except in extreme
cases where the right thereto is clearly established.” (Teachers Ins. &
Annuity Assoc. v. Furlotti (1990) 70 Cal.App.4th 1487, 1493, citations
omitted (Teachers Ins. & Annuity Assoc.).)
Preliminary injunctive relief
requires the use of competent evidence to create a sufficient factual showing
on the grounds for relief. (See ReadyLink Healthcare v. Cotton (2005)
126 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1016; see, e.g., Ancora-Citronelle Corp. v. Green
(1974) 41 Cal.App.3d 146, 150.) Injunctive relief may be granted based on a
verified complaint only if it contains sufficient evidentiary, not ultimate,
facts. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 527, subd. (a).) A pleading alone rarely
suffices.
The burden of proof is on the
moving party. (O’Connell v. Superior Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 1452,
1481.) The decision to grant a preliminary injunction generally lies within the
sound discretion of the trial court and will not be disturbed on appeal absent
an abuse of discretion. (Thornton v. Carlson (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 1249,
1255, citation omitted.)
Order Granting Preliminary
Injunction: DENIED.
The trial court considers two main
factors in determining whether to issue a preliminary injunction: (1) the
likelihood the plaintiff will prevail on the merits of its case at trial; and
(2) the interim harm the plaintiff is likely to sustain if the injunction is
denied as compared to the harm the defendant is likely to suffer if the court
grants a preliminary injunction. (Husain v. McDonald’s Corp. (2012) 205
Cal.App.4th 860, 866-867 (Husain); see Code Civ. Proc., § 526, subd.
(a).)
I.
Likelihood of Success on the
Merits
The moving party has the burden of
presenting facts showing a reasonable probability of succeeding on the merits.
(Citizens for Better Streets v. Board of Supervisors of the City &
County of San Francisco¿(2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 1, 6; Trader Joe’s Co. v.
Progressive Campaigns,¿Inc.¿(1999) 73 Cal.App.4th 425, 429-30.) The
likelihood of plaintiff’s ultimate success on the merits affects the showing
necessary to a balancing-of-hardships analysis whereby the more likely it is
that the plaintiff will ultimately prevail, the less severe must be the harm
the plaintiff alleges will occur if the¿injunction¿is not issued, particularly
true when the requested¿injunction¿maintains, rather than alters, the status
quo. (Take Me Home Rescue v.¿Luri¿(2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1350.)
“The granting of a mandatory injunction pending trial is not permitted except
in extreme cases where the right thereto is clearly established.” (Teachers
Ins. & Annuity Assoc., supra, 70 Cal.App.4th at p. 1493.)
In her motion, Plaintiff Garcia
argues that she is likely to succeed on the merits of her claim under the
California Fair Employment and Housing Act (“FEHA”), thus entitling her to the
requested affirmative injunction against Defendants. Plaintiff provides
arguments for each element of a FEHA housing discrimination claim. (Mot., pp.
9-11; see FAC, Sixth Cause of Action.)
In opposition, KIG presents
arguments for why Plaintiff cannot establish the elements of her FEHA housing
discrimination claim against KIG. (KIG Opp’n, pp. 5-7.)
In opposition, Marzwell, Madison,
Sundance, and Appa argue that Plaintiff cannot establish her claims against
them. These Defendants argue, among other things, that Plaintiff’s lease
unambiguously provides that upon seven days’ written notice, Defendants may
revoke Plaintiff’s parking privileges at any time and for any reason, that such
notice was properly and timely given here when the Subject Property was
retrofitted, and that another accommodation was offered to her which was
refused. (Marzwell, et al. Opp’n, pp. 5-6.)
In reply, Plaintiff argues that she
has sufficiently shown a likelihood of success on the merits and pushes back
against KIG’s and the other Defendants’ arguments. (See Replies.)
The Court finds in favor of all
Defendants.
The Court initially notes that
Plaintiff Garcia seeks to change the status quo and secure an affirmative
injunction against Defendants. Such an injunction carries a high burden: “The
granting of a mandatory injunction pending trial is not permitted except in
extreme cases where the right thereto is clearly established.” (Teachers
Ins. & Annuity Assoc., supra, 70 Cal.App.4th at p. 1493.)
Moving to the merits, FEHA makes it
unlawful for landlords to discriminate against their tenants because of,
amongst other things, the tenant’s disability. (Gov. Code, § 12926 et seq.) (Ms.
Garcia’s claims under the City of Los Angeles Tenant Anti-Harassment Ordinance
(TAHO) are predicated on this FEHA claim.) To establish a prima facie case of
housing discrimination in violation of FEHA based on a landlord’s refusal to
provide reasonable accommodations, the plaintiff must establish that (1) she is
disabled as defined by FEHA, (2) the landlord knew or should have known of the
disability, (3) an accommodation is necessary to afford an equal opportunity to
use and enjoy the dwelling, and (4) the landlord refused to make this
accommodation. (Auburn Woods I Homeowners Assn. v. Fair Employment and
Housing Comm. (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 1578, 1592 (Auburn Woods).)
Here, the Court finds that
Plaintiff Garcia offers minimal but sufficient evidence in support of her
disability. Plaintiff offers her declaration to the effect that she is disabled,
and a copy of the handicap parking placard issued to Ms. Garcia by the
Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV). (See Mot., Ana Maria Garcia Decl., ¶¶ 1, 9;
Mot., Medina Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. C.) Plaintiff’s reply relies on the California
Code of Regulations for the purpose of arguing that the information
establishing that the individual has a disability can be provided directly by
the individual with a disability through a credible statement regarding the
disability that a reasonable person would believe is true based on the
available information. (See Reply [KIG], p. 2, citing Cal. Code Regs., tit. 2,
§ 12178, subd. (f).) The Court finds that she has established a prima facie
case of her disability.
However, the Court finds that
Plaintiff Garcia has not sufficiently established the likelihood of success on
the merits as to her alleged necessity for parking accommodation to afford her
an equal opportunity to use and enjoy the dwelling. Plaintiff’s motion as to
this point is brief. She cites to Auburn Woods for the purpose of
arguing that on-site parking will “improve” Plaintiff’s disability, its
effects, or its symptoms with no further explanation or a cite to evidence.
(See Mot., p. 11.) 
Even if she met that threshold, Plaintiff
has not sufficiently established a likelihood that she will prevail on her claim
for disability accommodation given the high standard required for an affirmative
injunction. Defendants present evidence that the termination of Plaintiff’s
parking space was permissible based on the written lease she had signed
allowing Owner to terminate the space after seven days’ written notice. (Mot., Ana
Maria Garcia Decl., Exh. A, p. 1-2, ¶4 [attached to Medina Decl.].) They present
evidence that her parking space was terminated due to a retrofit, not based on
any discrimination. (Opp., Marzwell Decl., ¶ 3.) Finally, they cite to a
proposed accommodation that was offered to her that would have converted a parking
spot on the street directly in front of Plaintiff’s unit to a handicapped spot
specifically for her use (along with an application to convert the spot to
permit parking only) that would have been even closer to her door than the old
parking spot. (Opp., Marzwell Decl., ¶¶ 14-15; see Hanson v. Lucky Stores,
Inc. (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 215, 228 [in employment case, the employer has
the ultimate discretion to choose between effective accommodations].) 
The Court notes that it is not finding that Plaintiff could
not convince a jury of the merit of her FEHA claim, but rather, that based on
the record before the Court, the Court cannot determine for affirmative
injunction purposes that Plaintiff has “clearly established” her right to a
parking space on the Subject Property. (Teachers Ins. & Annuity
Assoc., supra, 70 Cal.App.4th at p. 1493.)
Plaintiff’s motion is therefore
DENIED.
II.
Balancing of Harms
“An evaluation of the relative harm
to the parties upon the granting or denial of a preliminary¿injunction¿requires
consideration of: ‘(1) the¿inadequacy of any other remedy; (2) the degree of
irreparable¿injury the denial of the¿injunction¿will cause; (3) the necessity
to preserve the status quo; [and] (4) the degree of adverse effect on the
public¿interest or¿interests of third parties the granting of
the¿injunction¿will cause.’” (Vo v. City of Garden Grove¿(2004) 115
Cal.App.4th 425, 435.)¿
Here, the Court need not reach the
balancing of harms but does note that the necessity to preserve the status quo
weighs against the injunction. Moreover, the Court notes that questions exist
as to the adequacy of remedy at law, e.g., the reduction in rent that Plaintiff
Garcia has been receiving based on the termination of her entitlement to
parking space at the Subject Property, some other kind of monetary compensation,
or even taking Defendants up on their offer to assist with an application to
designate the sidewalk in front of the Property as disabled parking. Finally,
the Court notes that the dispute regarding the termination of the parking spot
started, according to Plaintiff, around October 2020. (Opp., Ana Maria Garcia
Decl., at ¶ 5.) This case was filed in January, 2022. It was only in September,
2023, nearly three years after the dispute began, that Plaintiff filed this
motion for preliminary injunction, when trial is set right about six months
from now, in April, 2024. This cuts against a finding of irreparable injury and
raises the question why this issue cannot wait to be resolved until trial, when
the Court will have all the evidence before it.
Such questions would disfavor a
finding that the balancing of the harms tips in Plaintiff’s favor.
 
Conclusion
Plaintiff Ana Maria Garcia’s Motion for Preliminary Injunction is DENIED.