 Case Number:  22STCV06380    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
February 22, 2022, Plaintiff Mascelys Luna (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Nelson Aroche (“Aroche”), Jessenia Beltran (“Beltran”), and
Does 1-50 for negligence. 
On
December 19, 2023, Aroche and Beltran (“Defendants”) filed an answer. 
On
August 13, 2024, Defendants filed a motion to compel Plaintiff’s deposition and
for sanctions.  The motion was set for
hearing on September 18, 2024.  Plaintiff
has not filed an opposition. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for March 4, 2025. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendants
ask the Court to compel Plaintiff to appear for a deposition and to impose
sanctions on Plaintiff and her counsel. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.450 provides in part: 
“(a) If, after service of a deposition notice, a party
to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party,
or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section
2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails
to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order
compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. 
“(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with
both of the following: 
“(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice. 
“(2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to
attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored
information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance. 
*
* *
 “(g) (1) If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted,
the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against
the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the
court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. . . .” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subds. (a), (b), (g)(1).) 
DISCUSSION 
On
June 19, 2024, Defendants noticed Plaintiff’s remote deposition for July 26,
2024 at 10:00 a.m.  The deposition notice
included a request to produce documents. 
The parties later agreed to reschedule the deposition for 11:00 a.m. 
On
July 26, 2024, Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel did not appear for the
deposition.  Defendants took a
certificate of non-appearance. 
   Defendants
move to compel Plaintiff’s appearance at a deposition.  However, Defendants have not stated whether
Plaintiff served a valid objection to the deposition notice.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)  Although Defendants assert in their motion
that “[n]o notice of the prospective non-appearances was ever given and no
explanation for Plaintiff’s failure to appear has ever been communicated to
Defendants’ attorneys” (Motion p. 4), Defendants have not included this assertion
in their supporting declaration. In addition, Defendants have not provided a meet and confer declaration under Code of Civil Procedure section 2016.040 or a declaration stating that Defendants' counsel contacted Plaintiff's counsel to inquire about Plaintiff's nonappearance at the deposition. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b)(2).) 
The
Court denies the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES the motion of Defendants Nelson Aroche and Jessenia Beltran to
compel the deposition of Plaintiff Mascelys Luna. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.