  Case Number:  23STCV18155    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



MARIA REYES,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
LYNEER STAFFING SOLUTIONS, LLC, a Delaware Limited Liability
  Corporation; and DOES 1-20, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV18155
 Hearing Date:   2/1/24
 Trial Date:        11/19/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiff Maria
  Reyes’s Motion to Compel Initial Responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for
  Production Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One, Form Interrogatories
  General Set One, Form Interrogatories Law Set One, and Production of
  Documents, and Request for Sanctions in the Amount of $3,675.00.



 
Background
Pleadings
Plaintiff Maria Reyes, on behalf of
herself, sues Defendants Lyneer Staffing Solutions, LLC and Does 1-20 pursuant
to an August 1, 2023 Complaint alleging claims of (1) Retaliation in Violation
of FEHA (Government Code § 12940(h)), (2) Discrimination in Violation of FEHA
(Government Code § 12940(a)), (3) Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process
(Government Code § 12940(n), (4) Failure to Prevent Discrimination (Government
Code § 12940(k), (5) Failure to Provide Reasonable Accommodation (Government Code
§ 12940(m), (6) Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy, (7) Failure
to Pay Overtime Wages in Violation of Labor Code §§ 510, 1194, 1198, 558,
558.1, and the IWC Wage Orders, (8) Failure to Provide Meal Periods and Rest
Breaks in Violation of California Labor Code §§ 226.7 and 512, (9) Failure to
Reimburse Necessary Business Expenses in Violation of California Labor Code §
2802, (10) Failure to Pay Minimum Wage in Violation of Labor Code §§ 558,
558.1, 1194, 1197, 1198, and the IWC Wage Orders, (11) Failure to Pay All Wages
at Termination in Violation of Labor Code §§ 201-203, (12) Failure to Provide
Accurate Wage Statements in Violation of Labor Code § 226(a), and (13) Unlawful
Business Practices (Business & Professions Code § 17200 et seq.
Motion Before the Court
On September 8, 2023, Plaintiff
Maria Reyes served various discovery requests on Defendant Lyneer Staffing: (1)
Special Interrogatories, Set One (SROGs, Set One), (2) Form Interrogatories –
General, Set One (FROGS – General, Set One), (3) Form Interrogatories –
Employment Law, Set One (FROGs – Employment Law, Set One), and (4) Requests for
Production, Set One (RPDs, Set One). The requests were served at Lyneer
Staffing’s counsel’s “virtual office” “by hand.”
On October 16, 2023, based on
nonresponse from Defendant Lyneer Staffing, Plaintiff Reyes’s counsel sent a
meet and confer letter to some of Lyneer Staffing’s counsel, giving Lyneer
Staffing until October 27, 2023 to provide objection-free discovery responses and
responsive documents.
On October 25, 2023, Plaintiff
Reyes’s counsel again sent a meet and confer letter to some of Lyneer
Staffing’s counsel.
As of November 3, 2023, Defendant
Lyneer Staffing had failed to serve responses to the above discovery requests.
That same day, Plaintiff Reyes
filed a motion to compel initial responses to SROGs, Set One, FROGs – General,
Set One, and FROGs – Employment Law, Set One, compel initial responses and
production to RPDs, Set One, and for monetary sanctions of $3,675 against
Plaintiff Reyes.
On November 15, 2023, Defendant
Lyneer Staffing’s counsel requested proof of confirmation that delivery of the
September 8, 2023 discovery was actually effected given that the proof of
service attached to the discovery requests only referenced delivery by courier
with a service list to be delivered by the courier, Ace Attorney.
On January 19, 2024, Defendant
Lyneer Staffing opposed Plaintiff Reyes’s motion on the ground that that same
day, Lyneer Staffing served substantially compliant, verified and substantive
responses to Plaintiff’s discovery requests and produced documents, and argued
that it is instead Lyneer Staffing that is entitled to monetary sanctions of
$1,925.
On January 25, 2024, Plaintiff
Reyes replied to the opposition.
Plaintiff Reyes’s motion is now
before the Court. 
 
Motion to Compel Initial Responses, Interrogatories and
Production
Legal
Standard
A
motion to compel an initial response can be made on the ground that a party did
not serve a timely response to interrogatories or a demand to produce. (Code
Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (a) [interrogatories], 2031.300, subd. (a)
[demand to produce]; see Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific
Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 404 (Sinaiko).)
To establish this ground, a movant must show:
(1)
Proper service (see Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.080, subd. (a) [interrogatories],
2031.040 [demand to produce]);
(2)
Expiration of the deadline for the initial response 30 days after service or on
date agreed to by parties (see Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.260, subds. (a), (b)
[interrogatories], 2031.260, subds. (a), (b) [demand to produce]); and
(3)
No timely response (see Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290 [interrogatories],
2031.300 [demand to produce]).
A
court must deny a motion to compel initial discovery where the discovery sought
is outside the scope of discovery. (See CBS, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1968) 263 Cal.App.2d 12, 19; see also Code. Civ. Proc., § 2017.010 [scope of
discovery].) 
Order Compelling Initial Responses: MOOT.
Plaintiff Reyes argues that this motion is
proper based on Defendant Lyneer Staffing’s nonresponse to discovery requests,
that the discovery is relevant, that Lyneer Staffing has waived objections to
these discovery requests by failing to provide timely responses after service
of the discovery requests, and that Plaintiff is entitled to sanctions for
discovery abuse. (Mot., pp. 3-6.)
In opposition, Defendant Lyneer Staffing argues
that this motion should be denied for various reasons. Lyneer Staffing argues
that mandatory email service is applicable to this case because Plaintiff Reyes
is represented by counsel, for which reason the service “by hand” of the
discovery requests was not proper. Lyneer Staffing also argues that there was
no effective service of the discovery requests because the requests were
personally served on a staff of Lyneer Staffing’s “virtual office,” a physical address
for Lyneer Staffing used for receiving and forwarding business mail and for
occasional use of the conference rooms.  Lyneer
Staffing also argues that Plaintiff’s counsel has not been forthcoming about
the discovery requests and that Lyneer Staffing has subsequently served
Code-complaint responses to Plaintiff Reyes’s discovery requests. Last, Lyneer
Staffing notes that it has filed a motion to relieve it of the waiver of
objections resulting from failing to timely respond to the discovery requests
and that Lyneer Staffing, and not Plaintiff Reyes, is entitled to monetary
sanctions of $1,925. (Opp’n, pp. 7-11; see Opp’n, Ignacio Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. G
[discovery responses].)
In reply, Plaintiff Reyes argues that
Defendant Lyneer Staffing fails to accurately or substantively address
Plaintiff’s legal authority. Plaintiff Reyes also argues that Lyneer Staffing
does not have any authority for its argument that mandatory electronic service
is required here and that personal service at the “virtual office” was proper.
Last, Plaintiff Reyes argues that Lyneer Staffing’s motion to relieve it from
objections will fail and that she rather than Lyneer Staffing is entitled to
sanctions. (Reply, pp. 4-7.)
The Court finds in favor of Defendant Lyneer
Staffing.
The Court first determines that the issue of
service is unclear. There is a strong argument to be made from the language of
the applicable rule of court that mandatory electronic service was applicable
to service of the discovery at issue here. “Except when personal service is
otherwise required by statute or rule, a party or other person that is
required to file documents electronically in an action must also serve
documents and accept service of documents electronically from all other parties
or persons, unless (A) the court orders otherwise, or (B) the action
includes parties or persons that are not required to file or serve documents
electronically, including self-represented parties or other self-represented
persons; those parties or other persons are to be served by non-electronic
methods unless they affirmatively consent to electronic service.” (Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 2.251, subd. (c)(3)(A)-(B), emphasis added.) 
Here, the Superior Court’s First Amended
General Order dated May 3, 2019 mandates that pursuant to California Rules of
Court, rule 2.253, subdivision (b), represented litigants are required to
electronically file documents with the Court through an approved electronic
filing service provider. (Super. Ct. L.A. County, First Amended General Order
dated May 3, 2019, ¶ 2(b).) Plaintiff Reyes, as a represented litigant, is thus
required to electronically file documents, and thus, to electronically serve
documents as well. 
No order appears in the record mandating
that electronic service need not be made here pursuant to rule 2.251, and the
exceptions to rule 2.251 do not apply because those exceptions are limited to
self-represented person or persons who need to be served via non-electronic
methods. Here, Defendant Lyneer Staffing is a represented party. Thus,
electronic service would appear to have been mandatory for service of SROGs,
Set One, FROGS – General, Set One, FROGs – Employment Law, Set One, and RPDs,
Set One. Nevertheless, service was effected in person on a staff member of the
“virtual office.” (Mot., Favarote Decl., Exs. 1-4, Proofs of Service [showing
service effected by courier Ace Attorney, to be served at 888 Prospect Street,
Suite 200, La Jolla].) Service was thus—within the context of the Los Angeles
Superior Court Rules of Court and First Amended General Order—improper insofar
as it did not include electronic service as well.
Plaintiff Reyes makes the reasonable
argument, however, that the proper interpretation of rule 2.251, subdivision (c)(3)
is that if electronic filing is required by a party or person in the superior
court at issue, then it is only electronic service or receipt of those electronically
filed documents that must also be effected. (Reply, p. 1, fn. 1 and pp. 4-5.) While
the text of the rule does not specifically state that litigants who are
required to file documents electronically must only electronically serve the
documents that they file, there is ambiguity from the placement of this rule within
the rules of court. For example, rule 2.251 subdivision (c)(1) states that a
court may require parties to serve documents electronically in specified civil
actions by local rule or court order, as provided in Code of Civil Procedure section
1010.6. The General Order does not specifically so order. 
In the instant case, the Court need not
resolve the dispute, because the original proofs of service filed with the
motion do not properly show that the documents were served personally, since
they instead state under penalty of perjury that “I directed the sealed
envelope(s) to the party(ies) so designated on the service list to be delivered
by Ace Attorney Service, Inc., this date.” (See Mot., Favarote Decl., Exs. 1-4,
Proof of Service [showing service address at 888 Prospect Street, Suite 200, La
Jolla].) Even in the documents submitted in Reply, there is no formal attestation
by a process server, only an email printout from “POD@acelegal” showing confirmation
of a 12:28 PM delivery on September 8, 2023 “by hand” on “Maria A.” at “Stacey
Cooper Law, PC,” “888 Prospect St. #200, La Jolla.” (Reply, Favarote Decl., Ex.
1.)  (Code of Civil Procedure §§ 1011, 2009.)
Because there is no showing that service was
properly made, no waiver of objections has occurred. (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290, subd. (a), 2031.300, subd. (a).)
Last, the Court determines that the January
19, 2024 discovery responses by Defendant Lyneer Staffing are Code-compliant. A
review of those responses shows that Lyneer Staffing either answered “No” or
“Yes” to the form interrogatories, and where the responses are “Yes,” these
responses provide the additional information requested by the interrogatory
requests, without objections. The responses to the production requests contain
objections and a statement of compliance based on ongoing discovery or substantive
responses to each request. The responses to the special interrogatories contain
some objections, but they all provide substantive responses qualified by the
objections, where applicable. The Court adopts its above discussion relating to
waiver to determine that the objections in Defendant Lyneer Staffing’s
responses are properly stated because they were not waived. (Opp’n, Ignacio
Decl., ¶ 9, Ex G [responses to three interrogatory and two production
requests].)
The Court briefly discusses when Lyneer
Staffing did or should have become aware of service of SROGs, Set One, FROGS –
General, Set One, FROGs – Employment Law, Set One, and RPDs, Set One. The
October 16, 2023 meet and confer declaration attached to the moving papers show
that Plaintiff Reyes’s counsel drafted a letter, to be emailed to Stacey Cooper
and Manuel Ignacio as Lyneer Staffing’s counsel, which noted the nonresponse to
these discovery requests. (Mot., Favarote Decl., Ex. 5 [showing letter, but not
copy of any email attaching letter thereto or proof of service whether formal
or informal].) The opposition provides evidence to show that an October 16,
2023 email involved discovery in a San Bernardino Superior Court action
asserting PAGA claims against Lyneer Staffing. (Opp’n, Cooper Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. E
[October 16, 2023 emails regarding San Bernardino Superior Court action].) The
opposition also shows that an October 16, 2023 letter was also sent in the LA
Case, although Ms. Cooper denies having seen it. (Opp’n, Cooper Decl., ¶ 6, Ex.
F.) The active meeting and conferring that occurred regarding the San
Bernardino discovery (Opp’n, Ignacio Dec., Exs A-E), tends to support Defendant’s
contention that they failed to see, rather than deliberately ignored, the letter
pertaining to this case.
In any event, and while the parties may
disagree as to that date, it appears undisputed from the evidence before the
Court that Lyneer Staffing’s counsel became aware of the discovery requests as
of at least November 3, 2023, when this motion was filed. (Opp’n, Cooper Decl.,
¶¶ 6-7 [cannot locate October 16, 2023 email, but discovered these requests
following November 3, 2023 motion]). Lyneer Staffing also provides evidence to
show that counsel attempted to secure a document from Plaintiff Reyes’s counsel
showing that hand delivery was in fact effected by Ace Attorney on September 8,
2023, which, as of January 19, 2024, Plaintiff Reyes’s counsel had failed to do.
(Opp’n, Ignacio Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. F [attached printout of November 15, 2023 email
by Manuel Ignacio]; cf. Reply, Favarote Decl., Ex. 2 [showing service of
responses via email on January 20, 2024, with the Court noting the responses
were attached to the January 19, 2024 opposition’s Ignacio Decl. as Ex. G].) The
reply attaches an email printout from “POD@acelegal” showing confirmation of a 12:28
PM delivery on September 8, 2023 “by hand” on “Maria A.” at “Stacey Cooper Law,
PC,” “888 Prospect St. #200, La Jolla.” (Reply, Favarote Decl., Ex. 1.)
However, the reply does not address whether, prior to the reply’s filing date
of January 25, 2024, Plaintiff Reyes’s counsel had shared that document with
Lyneer Staffing. (See Reply, p. 4, Favarote Decl., ¶¶ 1-3.) 
Under these circumstances, the Court finds
it reasonable for Lyneer Staffing to have waited to serve responses until it
received confirmation of service of the discovery requests, and, when it did
not, for good measure, attached responses to that discovery to the opposition,
which were served on January 19, 2023, as attached to the opposition, or as
emailed to Plaintiff Reyes.
The Court also notes that the parties have
exchanged email addresses for where service should be made in the future.
(Reply, p. 4, Favarote Decl., Ex. 3) Future service must be made at these email
addresses pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6, subd. (b)(4).
For the above stated reasons, Plaintiff
Reyes’s motion is MOOT, as made pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections
2030.290 and 2031.300, though this order does not affect rights pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure sections 2030.300 and 2031.310 to 2031.320.
These determinations also make the January
23, 2024 motion for relief by Defendant Lyneer Staffing MOOT, as it appears service
was invalid, and even if it was not, Lymeer subsequently served substantially
compliant responses, and the failure to serve responses was due to mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.
Order Granting Sanctions: DENIED
(as to both parties).
The Court must impose monetary sanctions
against anyone—party, nonparty, or attorney—who unsuccessfully makes or opposes
the motion, unless it finds that the person to be sanctioned acted withs
substantial justification or other circumstances make the imposition of the
sanctions unjust. (See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (c)
[interrogatories], 2031.300, subd. (c) [demand to produce]; see Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants, supra,
148 Cal.App.4th at p. 404 [interrogatories and demand to produce].)
The court may award sanctions under the
Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even
though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was
withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after
the motion was filed. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348, subd. (a).)

Based
on the above discussions relating to the complexities of the service issue, when
Lyneer Staffing became aware of the discovery at issue, and the reasonability
of Lyneer Staffing waiting to receive confirmation of service “by hand” through
courier, the Court determines that imposition of sanctions against Lyneer
Staffing would be unjust. The Court thus exercises its discretion to DENY
sanctions here.
On
the other side, the Court DENIES sanctions in favor of Defendant Lyneer Staffing.
The Court finds that the issue of service was a reasonable dispute, even if Plaintiff
apparently did not produce evidence showing Ace Attorney confirmed delivery of
the discovery requests at the “virtual office” until the Reply brief.
 

Conclusion
Plaintiff Maria Reyes’s Motion to
Compel Initial Responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production Set One,
Special Interrogatories, Set One, Form Interrogatories General Set One, Form
Interrogatories Law Set One, and Production of Documents, and Request for
Sanctions in the Amount of $3,675.00 is:
(1) MOOT as to compelling initial
responses to these discovery requests, and
(2) DENIED as to monetary
sanctions.
Defendant Lyneer Staffing
Solutions, LLC’s opposition request for sanction is also DENIED.
The April 9, 2024 Hearing on Motion
- Other for Relief from Waiver of Objections to Discovery is advanced to this
date and vacated.
The Court strongly urges the
parties to engage in Informal Discovery Conferences in order to resolve further
discovery disputes.