 Case Number:  22NWCV01441    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  C A.C. v. DOE 1
CASE NO.:  22NWCV01441 
HEARING:  10/05/23
 
#3
 
GOOD SHEPHERD BIBLE CHURCH’s Motion to Quash Service of
Summons is DENIED. 
 
Plaintiff to give notice. 
 
No Reply filed as of October 2, 2023. 
 
On November 20, 2022, Plaintiff (over 40 years of age) filed
this action alleging claims of childhood sexual abuse and assault under CCP
§340.1. On February 3, 2023, this Court held an ex parte hearing and signed an
Order enabling Plaintiff to proceed with this litigation by granting permission
to serve Does 1 and 2. 
 
On April 21, 2023, Good Shepherd Bible Church and Sharon
Lynn Gamboa were served (as Doe 1). 
 
Subdivision (i) of CCP §340.1 sets forth the requirements for service of a Childhood
Sexual Assault action:
 
“(i) In any action subject to subdivision (f), a
defendant shall not be served, and the duty to serve a defendant with process
does not attach, until the court has reviewed the certificates of merit filed
pursuant to subdivision (g) with respect to that defendant, and has found, in
camera, based solely on those certificates of merit, that there is reasonable
and meritorious cause for the filing of the action against that defendant. At
that time, the duty to serve that defendant with process shall attach.”
 
Pursuant to subdivision (i), the court signed an order on
February 2, 2023 permitting Plaintiff to serve Doe Defendants.  This was done after the court reviewed the
Attorney Certificate of Merit on behalf of Plaintiff A.C. regarding Does 1 and
2, and the Certificate of Merit by Licensed Psychologist re Plaintiff A.C.  The court ordered the Certificates of Merit
sealed.  
 
Good Shepherd Bible Church moves to quash service of summons
because it is not a named party in the lawsuit. 
Moving party misunderstands the requirements of the statute.  Plaintiff has satisfied the requirements for
service upon Doe Defendants by submitting the Certificates of Merit for the
court’s ex parte review.  “At that time,
the duty to serve that defendant with process shall attach.”  
 
Subdivisions (m) and (n) of CCP §340.1 set forth the requirements for amending the complaint to
substitute the name of the defendant or defendants.  Subdivision (m) provides:
 
“(m) At any time after the action is filed, the
plaintiff may apply to the court for permission to amend the complaint to
substitute the name of the defendant or defendants for the fictitious
designation, as follows:
(1) The application shall be accompanied by a
certificate of corroborative fact executed by the attorney for the plaintiff …”
 
As Good Shepherd Bible Church points out, the requirements
of subdivision (m) have not been met.  However,
a Plaintiff need not be name a defendant in a complaint under subdivision (m)
in order to effect service.  Because the
requirements of subdivision (i) have been met, service of process upon Good
Shepherd Bible Church is valid. 
Accordingly, the motion to quash service of summons is DENIED.
 
The certificates of merit filed in this action shall remain
under seal until further order of the court. 
(CCP §340.1(p).)  
 
 
.