 Case Number:  23NWCV01277    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  C FERNANDEZ v.
TRUJILLO
CASE NO.:  23NWCV01277
HEARING:  10/05/23
 
#10 
 
Cross-Defendants’ Special Motion to Strike the
Cross-Complaint is CONTINUED to Thursday, December 21, 2023 at 9:30
a.m. in Dept. SE-C. 
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant to give notice. 
 
This Unruh action was filed by
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant ANTONIO FERNANDEZ (“Plaintiff” or “Cross-Defendant
Fernandez”) on April 26, 2023. Plaintiff is a high-frequency litigant and has
filed approximately 245 lawsuits alleging violations of construction-related
accessibility standards. (Complaint ¶¶23-24.) Plaintiff asserts the following
causes of action: (1) Violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act; and (2)
Violation of the Disabled Persons Act. 
 
On July 7, 2023
Defendant/Cross-Complainant HECTOR TRUJILLO (Cross-Complainant”) filed a
Cross-Complaint (“XC”). 
 
On September 6, 2023,
Cross-Defendants ANTONIO FERNANDEZ; MARK DEE POTTER; and CENTER FOR DISABILITY
ACCESS (collectively “Cross-Defendants”) filed the subject Special Motion to
Strike the XC under CCP §425.16.
 
On September 28, 2023,
Cross-Complainant filed the Declaration of Hector Trujillo in Opposition to the
Special Motion to Strike, which states that an “amended cross-complaint is
being filed with this opposition paper. This amended cross-complaint has many
critical parts, which overcomes the snit-SLAPP [sic] motion.” (Trujillo Decl.,
¶10.) Indeed, a First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FAXC”) was filed on September
28, 2023. 
 
Cross-Complainant alleges the
following in both the XC and the FAXC: “Unfortunately some handicapped people
have devised a scheme to extort money from businesses and taxpayers through
misuses of laws that are meant to help the disadvantaged. One such person is
Cross-defendant Fernandez and another is his attorney, Cross-defendant Potter.
[¶] By filing so many lawsuits, they are wasting the national resources
including the judicial resources. And also, they seem to be earning pretty good
income by settlements from many taxpayers who directly or indirectly support
them.” (XC and FAXC ¶¶7-8.) “One of the material issues in this cross-complaint
is whether Cross-defendant Fernandez has been a genuine customer for
Cross-complainant’s business or Cross-defendant Fernandez… have been hunters
searching victims….Also Cross-complainant predicts that Cross-defendants will
continue to be hunters unless this Court decides a judgment, which will punish
these hunters and prevent them from further hunting and harassing conduct
against unsuspecting businesses.” (XC and FAXC ¶10.) 
 
Both the XC and the FAXC assert
the following causes of action:
1.   
Unfair
Business Practices; 
2.   
Fraud
and Deceit; 
3.   
Tortious
Abuse of Process; 
4.   
Champerty
and Unclean Hands 
 
The Court is now tasked with
determining the effect of the amended pleading on the anti-SLAPP motion. 
 
Initial Cross-Complaint 
 
“An amendatory pleading supersedes
the original one, which ceases to perform any function as a pleading. The
amended complaint furnishes the sole basis for the cause of action, and the
original complaint ceases to have any effect either as a pleading or as a basis
for judgment. Because there is but one complaint in a civil action, the filing
of an amended complaint moots a motion directed to a prior complaint…. [¶] So
too does an amended complaint render moot an anti-SLAPP motion directed to a
prior complaint, with the following caveat: A plaintiff or cross-complainant
may not seek to subvert or avoid a ruling on an anti-SLAPP motion by amending
the challenged complaint or cross-complaint in response to the motion.
[Citations Omitted.]”(emphasis added) (JKC3H8 v. Colton (2013) 221
Cal.App.4th 468, 477-478.) 
 
In Simmons v. Allstate Ins. Co.
(“Simmons”) (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 1068, the trial court granted an
anti-SLAPP motion directed to a cross-complaint and denied the
cross-complainant leave to amend. (Id. at 1072). The appellate court affirmed,
stating that: “[a]llowing a SLAPP plaintiff leave to amend the complaint once
the court finds the prima facie showing has been met would completely undermine
the statute by providing the pleader a ready escape from section 425.16’s quick
dismissal remedy.” (Id. at 1073.) “[Simmons] establishes there is no
express or implied right in section 425.16 to amend a pleading to avoid a SLAPP
motion.” (Sylmar Air Conditioning v. Pueblo Contracting Services, Inc.
(2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 1049, 1055-1056.) 
 
Here, the FAXC alleges the same
causes of action as the original Cross-Complaint, and does not substantively
change any factual allegations. To find the anti-SLAPP Motion moot would only
serve to create unnecessary delay. It appears that the FAXC was filed for no
other purpose than to avoid a ruling on the anti-SLAPP. As such, the Court will
proceed to analyze the Motion as directed towards the original Cross-Complaint.

 
Cross-Defendants ANTONIO
FERNANDEZ; MARK DEE POTTER; and the CENTER FOR DISABILITY ACCESS (collectively
“Cross-Defendants”) move to strike the entire Cross-Complaint of Hector
Trujillo on the ground that the conduct complained of the XC involve statements
and writings made in judicial proceedings, and are constitutionally protected
by the litigation privilege. 
 
In addition to arguing that the
instant Motion is rendered moot by the filing of a FAXC, Cross-Complainant’s
Declaration in Opposition requests a continuance because he did not receive
timely notice of this hearing. No substantive arguments on the merits are
raised. 
 
No Reply has been filed as of
October 2, 2023.   
 
Cross-Complainant’s request for a
continuance is GRANTED. The POS filed on September 7, 2023 indicates that the
subject anti-SLAPP was served by mail on September 7, 2023 from Friendswood, TX
to an address in Los Angeles, CA. 
“[M]oving and supporting papers shall be served and filed at least 16
court days before the hearing…. However, if the notice is served by mail, the
required 16-day period of notice before the hearing shall be increased by five
calendar days if the place of mailing and the place of address are within the
State of California, 10 calendar days if either the place of mailing or the
place of address is outside the State of California but within the United
States….” (emphasis added.) (CCP §1005(b).) Since the anti-SLAPP was served
by mail outside of California, the notice period is increased by 10 calendar
days—meaning that service by mail had to have been effectuated by September 5,
2023, rendering the September 7, 2023 service date untimely. 
 
In the interests of judicial efficiency, the Court
CONTINUES this matter as indicated above. To prevent any deprivations of due
process, the Court permits supplemental briefing. Supplemental Opposition and
Reply papers may be filed and served per Code in accordance with the new
hearing date. 