 Case Number:  22NWCV00271    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  C SENIOR OPERATIONS LLC v. CERTIFIED RECORDS MANAGEMENT, LLC 
CASE
NO.:  22NWCV00271
HEARING:
 10/05/23
 
#2
 
Plaintiff
 SENIOR OPERATIONS LLC’s application for
writ of possession is GRANTED.  The bond amount will be determined after the
hearing.   
 
Moving
Party to give notice.
 
On
August 30, 2023, Plaintiff applied for an ex parte writ of possession pursuant
to CCP §512.020. Plaintiff’s ex parte request was denied. However, the Court
set Plaintiff’s Application for Writ of Possession for noticed hearing, and
provided a briefing schedule.
 
Background
This
action for breach of contract was filed by Plaintiff SENIOR OPERATIONS LLC
(“Plaintiff”) on April 8, 2022. The operative Complaint alleges that: “Senior
Operations contracted with King Data Services… in 2003 to provide document
storage services…. The Contract required that King Data provide 30 days written
notice before implementing a change in rates. The Contract had no set term for
the length of the Contract or any penalty or break-up fee when the Contract or
business relationship ended.” (Complaint ¶7.) Certified Records acquired King
Data Services and assumed its obligations under the Contract with Senior
Operations in 2012. (Complaint ¶9.) Certified records allegedly imposed
unilateral rate increases without notice to Senior Operations. Due to the rate
increases, Senior Operations decided to move its documents to another document
storage provider. (Complaint ¶¶11-12.) “In April 2021, Certified Records issued
a fee quote requiring Senior Operations to pay $183,462,78 if Senior Operations
wanted to remove its documents from storage. This break-up and penalty fee has
no relation to and far exceeds the actual labor costs Certified Records would
incur to simply put Senior Operations’ boxes of records on its dock for
pick-up. Rather, Certified Records insisted on this fee as a penalty and
disincentive for Senior Operations to move its record storage needs elsewhere.
Senior Operations never agreed verbally or in writing to this penalty and
break-up fee.” (Complaint ¶13.) 
 
The
Complaint asserts the following causes of action: (1) Breach of Contract; (2)
Violations of California’s Consumer Legal Remedies Act (CLRA); and (3)
Violations of the California Unfair Competition Law (UCL). 
 
On
June 3, 2022, Defendant filed a Cross-Complaint seeking, in part, a judicial
determination with respect to its “ability to destroy [Plaintiff’s] belongings
that are stored in [Defendant’s] custody.” (XC ¶27.) The XC asserts causes of
action for: (1) Breach of Contract; and (2) Declaratory Relief. 
 
Plaintiff
now applies for writ of possession over its business records, which are
allegedly wrongfully withheld by Defendant. Plaintiff argues that Defendant has
no basis to retain the documents because Plaintiff terminated the 2003 contract
in February 2022, and has paid all storage fees through February 2022. 
 
In
Opposition, Defendant argues that Plaintiff still owes over $150,000 in storage
fees, and that the 2003 agreement is outdated. Defendant maintains that the
Application for Writ of Possession should be denied because Plaintiff is the
party in breach, and gave up its right to possession of the records when it
refused to pay the agreed-upon fees. 
 
Notice
Prior
to the hearing, the defendant shall be served with all of the following: (a) a
copy of the summons and complaint; (b) A Notice of Application and Hearing; and
(c) a copy of the application and any affidavit in support thereof.  (CCP 512.030.)  
 
Proofs
of service have been filed showing that Defendant was served with the summons
and Complaint on May 4, 2022. Defendant was served with the Application for
Writ of Possession on August 28, 2023.
 
Merits
Upon
the filing of the complaint or at any time thereafter, the plaintiff may apply
for a writ of possession.  (CCP
512.010(a).)  The application shall
include all of the following, which may be established by affidavit, pursuant
to CCP 512.101(b):
 
1.   
The
basis of the plaintiff’s claim that the plaintiff is entitled to possession;
2.   
A
showing that the property is wrongfully detained and of the manner in which
defendant came into possession; 
3.   
A
particular description of the property and a statement of its value;
4.   
The
property’s location based on plaintiff’s knowledge, information and belief; and

5.   
A
statement that the property has not been seized by statute or execution against
it. 
 
The
writ will be issued if the plaintiff’s claim is probably valid.  (CCP 512.040(b).)  A writ to take possession of property at a
private location requires the plaintiff to show probable cause that the
property is located there.  (CCP
512.060(b).)
 
Plaintiff
submits the following evidence: 
·       
In
May 2021, Defendant threatened to destroy Plaintiff’s records. (Donis Decl.,
¶8.) 
·       
To
resolve the dispute, on February 22, 2022, Plaintiff informed Defendant that it
would pay all monthly storage fees through February 2022, and would pay an
additional $25,000 for the return of its records. (Donis Decl., ¶9.) 
·       
Plaintiff
did pay all monthly invoices through February 2022, yet Defendant refuses to
return Plaintiff’s records. (Donis Decl., ¶¶10-11.) 
 
Defendant
submits the following evidence in Opposition: 
·       
On
or about September 1, 2020, Defendant sent Plaintiff a Notice of its’ Pricing
Schedule (Schedule A) for Records Management storage and services, effective
October 1, 2020. (Sobwick Decl., ¶5.) 
·       
The
Pricing Schedule states that it supersedes and terminates any prior pricing
schedule established. The Pricing Schedule gives Defendant the option to either
destroy Plaintiff’s documents, or return them to Plaintiff contingent upon payment
of all outstanding charges including removal. (Sobwick Decl., ¶6.) 
·       
Plaintiff
did not object to the Pricing Schedule within 30 days of receiving it. (Sobwick
Decl, ¶7.) 
 
In
Reply, Plaintiff maintains that Defendant fails to substantiate whether the
2020 Pricing Schedule was ever sent in 2020. 
 
The
Court determines that Plaintiff’s claim is probably valid. Plaintiff has
established the probable validity of its claim to possession of the property
based on Breach of Contract. The 2003 Agreement required that Defendant provide
Plaintiff with 30 days written notice of any change in rates. In Opposition,
Defendant is unable to proffer any evidence to show that such notice was given.

 
The
Court notes that Defendant maintains its claim for monetary damages for any
alleged breach of contract. 
 
The
application for writ of possession is GRANTED. 
 
Undertaking:  A bond must be posted as part of the
undertaking unless the court finds that the defendant has no interest in the
property.  (CCP 515.010(b).)  The undertaking must be in an amount equal to
twice the value of the defendant's interest in the property (market value less
all liens, etc.).  (CCP 515.010.)  Defendant’s interest is based on the market
value of the property less (1) any amount due and owing on any conditional
sales contract or security agreement, (2) all liens and encumbrances on the
property, and (3) any other factors to determine the defendant’s interest in
the property.  (CCP 515.010(a).)
 
The
amount of the undertaking will be determined at/after the hearing. 