 Case Number:  23NWCV01067    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  C ASPRILLA v. FORD
MOTOR COMPANY
CASE NO.:  23NWCV01067
HEARING:  10/05/23
 
#6
 
Defendant FORD MOTOR COMPANY’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s
Complaint is SUSTAINED with 10 days leave to amend.
 
Moving Party to give Notice.
 
Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED. (Cal.
Ev. Code §452.) 
 
On April 6, 2023, Plaintiff Francisco Garcia Asprilla
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants for violations of statutory
obligations. 
 
On April 5, 2021, Plaintiff entered into a warranty contract
with Ford regarding a 2018 Ford EcoSport. (Complaint ¶7.) The warranty contract
contained various warranties, including but not limited to the bumper-bumper
warranty, powertrain warranty, emission warranty, etc. (Id. ¶8.) Defects and
nonconformities manifested themselves within the applicable express warranty
period which substantially impaired the use, value, or safety of the Subject
Vehicle. (Complaint ¶¶12-13.) 
 
The Complaint asserts the following causes of action: 
(1) Violation
of Cal. Civ. Code §1793.2(d); 
(2) Violation
of Cal. Civ Code §1793.2(b); 
(3) Violation
of Cal. Civ. Code §1793.2(a)(3); 
(4) Breach
of Implied Warranty of Merchantability; 
(5) Negligent
Repair against Defendant Central Ford; and 
(6) Violation
of the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act
 
Defendant FORD MOTOR COMPANY (“Defendant”) generally demurs
to the first, second, third, fourth, and sixth causes of action.  
 
First through Fourth Causes of Action
Defendant argues that Plaintiff bought a used vehicle from a
dealership, and that Defendant/manufacturer did not issue any warranties in
connection with the sale of the Subject Vehicle as a used vehicle sold by the
dealer. 
 
The decision from the Fourth District, Rodriguez v. FCA US, LLC
(2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 209 (Rodriguez) holds that the Song-Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act does not apply to used vehicles sold with a balance
remaining on the manufacturer’s express warranty. (Id. at 225.)  “Though we think Jensen was correctly
decided, we agree with Dagher that its statement about ‘the Act’s
coverage for subsequent purchasers of vehicles with a balance remaining on the
express warranty, must be read in light of the facts then before the court, and
are limited in that respect.’ [Citation.] Given that those facts included a car
leased with a full manufacturer’s warranty issued by the manufacturer’s
representative, the court was not asked to decide whether a used car with an
unexpired warranty sold by a third party reseller qualifies as a ‘new motor
vehicle.’” (Id. at 224.) Rodriguez is, however, pending before
our Supreme Court and thus constitutes only persuasive authority and “has no
binding or precedential effect.” (CRC Rule 8.1115(e)(1).) 
 
This Court finds Rodriguez to be persuasive, given the facts of
the instant case. Here, Plaintiff does not allege or argue that Defendant
issued a new or full express warranty with the vehicle at the time of sale to
the plaintiff. 
 
In Opposition, Plaintiff urges this Court to follow the binding
authority of Jensen v. BMW of North America, Inc. (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th
112. However, as indicated above, Jensen is distinguishable. In Jensen,
the manufacturer-affiliated dealer issued a new car warranty with the
plaintiff’s lease. (Id. at 119.) Those facts are not alleged here. 
 
Accordingly, pursuant to Rodriguez, the demurrer is properly
sustained as to the first through fourth causes of action. The demurrer to the
first through fourth causes of action is SUSTAINED with 10 days leave to amend.

 
Sixth Cause of Action – Violation of the Magnuson-Moss Warranty
Act
The Magnuson-Moss Act “authorizes a civil suit by a consumer to enforce
the terms of an implied or express warranty.” (Daugherty v. American Honda
Motor Co., Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 824, 835.) It “calls for the
application of state written and implied warranty law, not the creation of
additional federal law, except in specific instances in which it expressly
prescribes a regulating rule.” (Id. at 833.) 
 
Given the Court’s ruling with respect to the first through fourth causes
of action, the demurrer to the sixth cause of action is SUSTAINED with 10 days
leave to amend. 
 
 