  Case Number:  24NNCV00238    Hearing Date:   July 15, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      July 15, 2024                                                  TRIAL
DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         MICHAEL CERDA, et
al. v. PASADENA MEADOW NURSING CENTER L.P..  
 
CASE NO.:                 24NNCV00238
 
 
 
(1)
MOTION TO APPOINT YVETTE SALAZAR AS SPECIAL ADMINISTRATOR;
(2)
MOTION TO REDESIGNATE RONALD CERDA AS A PLAINTIFF

 
MOVING PARTY:               (1) Plaintiff Yvette Salazar
                                                (2)
Nominal Defendant Ronal Cerda
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     (1) Cross-Complainants and Nominal Defendants
Gregory Cerda, Ernest Cerda, and Yvonne Mejia
                                                (2) None
 
SERVICE:                              (1)/(2) Filed June 17, 2024
 
OPPOSITION:                      (1)
Filed July 1, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             (1) Plaintiff Yvette Salazar seeks
to be appointed the special administrator to prosecute Decedent Ruben Cerda’s survival
claims in the instant action.
 
            (2) Nominal Defendant
Ronald Cerda seeks to be re-designated as a plaintiff in this action and for
leave to amend complaint so that the caption and allegations reflect his
designation as a plaintiff. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of the death of Ruben
Armando Cerda (“Decedent”). Plaintiffs Michael Cerda and Yvette Salazar,
individually and as
heirs and successors in interest to Decedent,
initiated this action on March 13, 2024 against Pasadena Meadows Nursing
Center, LP dba Huntington Post Acute; Pasadena Hospital Association, LTD, Climb
Inc., and Melissa Ung (collectively, “Defendants”). Gregory Cerda, Ronald
Cerda, Ernest Cerda, and Yvonne Mejia are identified as nominal defendants. The
Complaint asserts the following causes of action: (1) Elder/Dependent Adult
Abuse/Neglect (Survival Action); (2) Negligence/Professional Negligence (Survival
Action); (3) Wrongful Death; (4) Statutory Violations/Breach of Resident
Rights (Health & Safety Code § 1430(b); and (5) Negligent Infliction of
Emotional Distress.
 
            On May 15, 2024, Cross-Complainants
Gregory Cerda, Ernest Cerda, and Yvonne Mejia, individually
and as successors in interest to Decedent Ruben Armando Cerda, (collectively,
“Cross-Complainants”) filed a cross-complaint against
Defendants, asserting the following causes of action: (1) Elder/Dependent Adult
Abuse/Neglect (Survival Action); (2) Negligence/Professional Negligence (Survival
Action); (3) Wrongful Death; (4) Statutory Violations/Breach of Resident
Rights (Health & Safety Code § 1430(b); (5) Negligent Infliction of
Emotional Distress; and (6) Request for Declaratory Relief to be Named as
Successor-in-Interest to Decedent. The Cross-Complaint identifies Michael Cerda
and Yvette Salazar as nominal cross-defendants.
 
            On June 17, 2024, Plaintiff Yvette
Salazar filed the instant motion to be appointed as special administrator of
Decedent Ruben Cerda’s survival claims pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §
377.33. Cross-Complainants oppose the instant motion. 
 
            On June 17, 2024, Nominal Defendant
Ronald Cerda seeks to be re-designated as a plaintiff in this action and leave
to file an amended complaint so that the caption and allegation reflect this
new designation. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
             
            (1) Plaintiff
Yvette Salazar’s motion to be appointed special
administrator pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 377.33 is GRANTED. 
 
            (2) Nominal
Defendant Ronald Cerda motion to be re-designated as a plaintiff is GRANTED.
 
DISCUSSION
 
I.         Motion to be Appointed
Special Administrator
 
            Plaintiff Yvette Salazar (“Salazar”) moves to be appointed special
administrator Decedent Ruben Cerda’s survival claims pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure § 377.33.
 
            “The
court in which an action is commenced or continued under this article may make
any order concerning parties that is appropriate to ensure proper
administration of justice in the case, including appointment of the decedent's
successor in interest as a special administrator or guardian ad litem.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 377.33.) 
 
            Here,
Salazar argues that she should be appointed special administrator of Decedent Ruben Cerda’s survival
claims because she is the person most knowledgeable regarding the events
that gave rise to this lawsuit. In particular, Salazar attests she: (1) was her
brother’s emergency contact at all of the defendant facilities (Salazar Decl. ¶¶
4, 6); (2) was regularly in contact with Defendant Climb Inc.’s personnel (Id.
at ¶ 4); (3) participated in her late-brother’s quarterly Individual Program
Plan (Ibid.); (4) spoke and interacted with her late-brother frequently
(Id. at ¶¶ 5, 9); (5) communicated with hospital staff regarding her
late-brother’s condition and provided informed consent for all necessary procedures
(Id. at ¶ 16.) Salazar reasons that, because the plaintiffs and
cross-complainants have competing wrongful death claims and discovery will
likely be protracted, it would be appropriate to appoint a special
administrator for the survival claims in order to streamline the
discovery process. (Motion re: Special Administrator at pg. 4.) Furthermore,
Salazar argues that all of the siblings would benefit from her appointment
because they would be relieved of the burden of proving the survival claims
and each would receive an equal share of the proceeds that would be awarded to
Decedent’s estate. (Ibid.) 
 
            In
opposition, Cross-Complainants first argue that it would be inappropriate
Salazar to serve as a special administrator through her attorney because there
is a conflict of interest amongst the Plaintiffs and Cross-Complainants.
(Opposition at pg. 4.) However, this argument is not persuasive because Salazar
seeks to be the special administrator over Decedent’s survival claims only. These
claims do not belong to either Plaintiffs or Cross-Complainants because they
are separate and distinct from their wrongful death claims and remaining
individual claims. (Code of Civ. Proc. §§ 377.30; 377.62.) Instead, because
Decedent died intestate, the siblings would be entitled to an equal share of
any settlement or judgment award. (Prob. Code § 6402(b),(c).) Thus,
Cross-Complainants’ concern that Salazar and her counsel would reach a
settlement that is more favorable to them is unwarranted. (See Opposition at
pg. 4.) 
 
            Second, Cross-Complainants
argue that they are distrustful of the representation that Salazar’s counsel
will provide based on pre-litigation statements made to them. (Id. at
pg. 5; Mejia Decl. ¶ 12-21; Gregory Cerda Decl. ¶¶ 11-21; Ernest Cerda Decl. ¶¶
11-21.) Also, Cross-Complainants do not wish to be associated with Ronald Cerda
and Salazar for personal reasons. (Id. at pp. 4-5; Mejia Decl. ¶¶ 7-11;
Gregory Cerda Decl. ¶¶ 6-10; (Ernest Cerda Decl. ¶¶ 6-10.) Based on the
representations made from Salazar’s counsel, it appears that any distrust that
was formed was likely due to miscommunication or misunderstanding. (See Reply,
Francis Decl. ¶¶ 1-19.) While there appears to be a rift amongst siblings,
Cross-Complainants desire not to be associated with Salazar is insufficient to
preclude her appointment as special administrator of Decedent’s survival
claims. Furthermore, this argument is undermined by the fact that
Cross-Complainants proposed Gregory Cerda act as a co-special administrator alongside
Salazar. (See Opposition at pg. 3.) Moreover, the only support as to why
Gregory Cerda should be appointed as a special administrator is because he is
the second oldest sibling. (See Mejia Decl. ¶ 22; Ernest Decl. ¶ 20.) Notably,
Cross-Complainants do not set forth any evidence to suggest Salazar is not the
best person to represent Decedent’s survival claims. 
 
            Accordingly,
because of Salazar’s close relationship with Decedent and due to the likelihood
that she is the person who possesses the most knowledge regarding the events
that gave rise to this action, Salazar’s motion to be appointed special
administrator is granted. 
            
            //
            //
            //
II.        Motion
for Re-Designation
 
            Nominal
Defendant Ronald Cerda (“Ronald”) seeks to be re-designated as a plaintiff in
this action because he believes that his interests as a wrongful death heir
would be best served by participating in this action as a plaintiff. (Motion
re: Re-Designation at pg. 1; Cerda Decl. ¶¶ 2-3.) As one of Decedent Ruben
Cerda’s siblings and statutory heirs, Ronald was named as a nominal defendant
because he did not seek to participate in the action. (Id. at pg. 1;
Cerda Decl. ¶¶ 1-2; Code Civ. Proc. § 377.60(a); Probate Code § 6402(b),(c); Ruttenberg
v. Ruttenberg (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 801, 808.) Because Ronald was named a
nominal defendant, he is for practical purposes a plaintiff. (See
Ruttenberg, supra, 53 Cal.App.4th at pg. 808 [“An heir named as a nominal
defendant in a wrongful death action is, in reality, a plaintiff.”].)
Therefore, it follows that he has claims that arise out same series of
occurrences as the other plaintiffs and that are adverse to the named
defendants. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 378(a).) Consequently, Ronald may formally
join in this action as a plaintiff. 
 
            Accordingly,
Ronald’s motion to be re-designated as a plaintiff is granted. Plaintiffs are
permitted to file an amended complaint solely for the purpose that the caption
and allegations reflect this re-designation. 

            
CONCLUSION
 
            Plaintiff
Yvette Salazar’s motion to be appointed special
administrator pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 377.33 is GRANTED. 
 
            Nominal Defendant
Ronald Cerda’s Motion to be Re-Designated as a Plaintiff is GRANTED. Plaintiffs
are permitted to file an amended complaint solely for the purpose that the
caption and allegations reflect this re-designation.  
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
            
Dated:   July 15, 2024                                     ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court



Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the court indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
