 Case Number:  24NNCV00982    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  X Defendant Lisa Flores' Motion to Strike Punitive Damages     Plaintiff sues for injuries sustained
when Defendant’s vehicle negligently struck Plaintiff’s bicycle. 
 
            Defendant
moves to strike the punitive and exemplary damages allegations and prayer for
relief in Plaintiff’s complaint.  Defendant moves for an order striking the
following portions of Plaintiff’s complaint:
 
1.     Case caption identifying “Other Damages: PUNITIVE.” 
2.     Paragraph 11: “Plaintiff has suffered… G. other damage: Punitive Damages.”

3.     Paragraph 14(a)(2): “Plaintiff prays for… Punitive damages.”
4.     “Exemplary Damages Attachment” in its entirety (P. 5).
 
Defendant’s motion to strike is
GRANTED with 10 days leave to amend.

Legal Standard 

            A judge may, on a motion to
strike made under Code of Civil Procedure section 435 or at any time at the
judge’s discretion, strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter in a
pleading, on terms the judge deems proper.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).)  A motion to strike may be used to
remove a claim for punitive damages that is not adequately supported by the
facts alleged in the complaint.  (Cryolife,
Inc. v. Superior Court (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1145; Kaiser
Foundation Health Plan, Inc. v. Superior Court (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th
696.) 

            In ruling on a motion to
strike punitive damages, “judges read allegations of a pleading subject to a
motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their
truth.”  (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th
1253, 1255.)  To state a prima facie
claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the elements set forth in
the punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994)
8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  Per Civil Code
section 3294, a plaintiff must allege that the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)  As set forth in the Civil Code,
 
(1) “Malice”
means conduct which is intended by the defendant to
cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.  (2)
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.  (3) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
(Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1)-(3), emphasis added.)
 
Further,
a plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to support a conclusion that a
defendant acted with oppression, fraud, or malice.  To wit, there is a
heightened pleading requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages.  (See Smith
v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)  “When
nondeliberate injury is charged, allegations that the defendant’s conduct was
wrongful, willful, wanton, reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for
exemplary damages; such allegations do not charge malice.”  (G. D. Searle & Co. v. Superior Court (1975)
49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29.)  Punitive damages
are not ordinarily recoverable in actions for negligence.  (Ibid.)  Punitive damages are only recoverable if the
plaintiff establishes oppression, fraud, or malice, as defined by Civil Code
section 3294(c). 
 
In Lackner v. North (2006) 135
Cal.App.4th 1188, 1212-1213, the court noted that an award of punitive damages
in cases involving unintentional torts is rare, and that no California case had
found “despicable” conduct in the context of an unintentional collision.  “[O]rdinarily, routine negligent or even
reckless disobedience of traffic laws would not justify an award of punitive
damages.”  (Taylor v. Superior Court
(1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 899-900.)  To
properly allege punitive damages in a motor vehicle accident action, a
plaintiff needs to “establish that the defendant was aware of the probable
dangerous consequences of his conduct, and that he wilfully and deliberately
failed to avoid those consequences.”  (Id.,
at p. 896; see also Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82,
90.) 

Legal Analysis
 
            Defendant moves to strike all portions
of the complaint relating to punitive and exemplary damages and related
references.  Defendant argues Plaintiff’s complaint has not alleged sufficient facts
to support the recovery of punitive damages.
 
Plaintiff’s complaint alleges that
Defendant acted with malice, oppression, and fraud. (Compl., Exemplary Damages
Attachment.)  On page 5 of the
complaint, under the heading “Exemplary Damages Attachment” plaintiff alleges
the following: 
 
“Defendant LISA FLORES, while
driving an automobile, negligently crashed into plaintiff ERIKA TOROYA who was
on a bicycle.  Defendant knew she crashed
into plaintiff and caused plaintiff to crash and hit the pavement. Defendant
further knew or should have known that Plaintiff ERIKA TOROYA suffered injuries
that needed immediate medical attention.  Defendant LISA FLORES had a duty and
requirement to stop and remain at the scene of the crash.  Instead with malice and oppression, Defendant
LISA FLORES did not stop and instead fled the scene, and made attempts to
conceal her identity and responsibility for causing the crash and fleeing the
scene.  As a result of such despicable
and malicious conduct Plaintiff suffered additional injuries and damages.”
 
Defendant argues the complaint’s
allegations are conclusory and insufficient to support a claim for punitive
damages. 
 
The complaint alleges Defendant
knew she crashed into Plaintiff and Plaintiff hit the pavement and suffered
injuries that needed immediate medical attention, yet Defendant chose to flee
the scene and conceal her identity.  Thus,
the complaint alleges, Plaintiff suffered additional injuries and damages. 
 
Constitutional restrictions permit recovery of punitive damages only for
conduct that harms the plaintiff.  (See Holdgrafer
v. Unocal Corp. (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 907, 928, quoting State Farm Mut.
Auto. Ins. Co. v. Campbell (2003) 538 U.S. 408, 422-433.)  “Punitive damages must focus on the
reprehensibility of the type of conduct that harmed plaintiff.”  (Haning, et al., Cal. Pract. Guide:
Personal Injury (Rutter Group 2021) ¶ 3:1455.)  In the Butte Fire Cases (2018) 24
Cal.App.5th 1150, 1176, the Court of Appeal determined that the defendant’s
post-tort conduct failed to demonstrate that defendant acted with malice. 
 
In Brooks v. E.J. Willig Truck Transp.
Co. (1953) 40 Cal.2d 669, 679, the court found that a hit and run cannot
give rise to damages unless the fact of the hit and run caused additional
damages above and beyond the accident itself.  Brooks did not
consider the issue of whether punitive damages can be imposed based on a hit
and run.  It did, however, hold that such
act only constitutes a tort if the act itself causes the plaintiff additional
damages above and beyond the damages caused by the accident that precedes the
hit and run.  For example, if a plaintiff
is struck and is seriously bleeding following the accident, the fact that the
defendant hits and runs could cause additional damage due to loss of blood,
death, etc.  If, however, the accident causes immediate soft tissue
damage, no amount of aid would reduce or minimize the future damages, and the
act of hitting and running would not give rise to additional damages.  If
the act of hitting and running, in and of itself, does not give rise to a tort,
then it logically follows that the act cannot give rise to a claim for punitive
damages.  (Ibid.) 
 
Here, the complaint alleges
Plaintiff needed immediate medical attention and suffered additional injuries because
of Defendant fleeing, but it does not allege how Plaintiff suffered additional
damages because of Defendant’s alleged fleeing.  The opposition merely repeats what the
complaint says.  These allegations do not
sufficiently plead that Defendant acted with malice, oppression, or fraud.  As such, the complaint fails to allege facts
sufficient to support a claim for punitive damages. 
            
Conclusion
            
Defendant’s motion to strike is
GRANTED with 10 days leave to amend.

            Moving Party to provide
notice.
 
 
Dated: September 9, 2024                             ___________________________________
                                                                                    Lauren A.R. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge of the Superior Court