  Case Number:  23AHCV01157    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  X Plaintiff  Perla Mageno’s Motion for Leave to File an Amended Complaint.                Plaintiff’s motion for  leave to file an amended complaint is GRANTED.   This case arises out of Plaintiff’s claim  that Defendant’s website violates California’s Unruh Civil Rights Act (“UCRA”).  Plaintiff is a visually-impaired and legally  blind person.  The complaint alleges she  encountered certain access barriers to Defendant’s website,  “www.jonescoffeeroasters.com” (hereinafter the “Website” or “Defendant’s  Website”).   Legal Standard   Code  of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1), provides in relevant part: “The  court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party,  allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or  proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be  made after the time limited by this code.”  Trial courts have discretion to permit  amendments, which should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments to  promote the judicial policy to resolve all disputed matters in one lawsuit.  (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989)  213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.  “But this  policy applies only [w]here no prejudice is shown to the adverse party.”  (Melican v. Regents of University of  California (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 168, 175, quotation marks omitted.)   The  court has broad discretion to permit amendments to pleadings, and “the court’s  discretion will usually be exercised liberally to permit amendment of the  pleadings.”  (Howard v. County  of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428.)  “The policy favoring amendment is so strong  that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be  justified.”  (Ibid.)  “If the motion to amend is timely made and  the granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing party, it is error  to refuse permission to amend ....”  (Morgan  v. Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.)  Prejudice includes “delay in trial, loss of  critical evidence, or added costs of preparation.”  (Solit v. Tokai Bank, Ltd. New York Branch  (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.)               California  Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subdivision (b), requires a motion to amend a  pleading to include a declaration that provides:  “[¶] (1) The effect of the amendment; [¶] (2) Why the amendment is  necessary and proper; [¶] (3) When the  facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and [¶] (4) The reasons why the  request for amendment was not made earlier.”   Request for Judicial  Notice   The Court GRANTS Defendant’s request for judicial notice.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).)  However, the Court takes judicial notice of  the foregoing documents only as to “the existence, content and authenticity of  public records and other specified documents”; it does not take judicial notice  of the truth of the factual matters asserted in those documents.  (Dominguez v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal.App.5th  389, 400.)   Legal Analysis   Plaintiff  seeks leave to amend the complaint to add allegations regarding her recent  visit to Defendant’s coffee shop in South Pasadena, and allegations regarding  website accessibility barriers identified by a Certified Professional in  Accessibility Core Competencies (“CPACC”) related to Plaintiff’s disabilities.  Plaintiff also seeks to add allegations that  Plaintiff returned to Defendant’s website on January 25, 2024 and found that  the barriers she had encountered in May 2023 still existed.  Plaintiff seeks to add allegations that she  traveled to Defendant’s coffee shop in South Pasadena on January 25, 2024 and  was forced to rely on sighted assistance to review the menu and place an order.   Plaintiff contends good cause exists to amend  the complaint to add these allegations and thereby further prove that Defendant  has no policy or plan to ensure its website is compliant and accessible, and  will also help inform an award for injunctive relief.  Plaintiff also contends Defendant will not be  prejudiced in any way by such amendments.   In  opposition, Defendant contends the motion is improper because the allegations  occurred after the filing of the complaint and Plaintiff should have filed a  supplemental pleading instead.  Defendant  also contends the UCRA statutory penalty of $4,000 does not stack, so the  proposed first amended complaint is futile because it is seeking $4,000 per  encounter and an additional violation of minimum statutory damages of $4,000  for deterrence.  Further, Defendant  argues “deterrence” damages are limited to cases involving construction-related  accessibility claims, which this is not.  Defendant also contends that Plaintiff  unreasonably delayed bringing this motion because trial is less than three  months away, plus Defendant will be prejudiced if leave to amend is granted.   Notwithstanding  the fact that Plaintiff’s proposed new pleading appears to be a supplemental  complaint rather than an amended complaint, the Court determines that there is  an insufficient showing of prejudice to Defendant in the amendment.  This is particularly the case where there has  been a showing that discovery on the proposed amendment or supplement has been  conducted.  And, while there may be issues  concerning the viability of Plaintiff’s proposed amendment, allowing for  amendment will not vitiate Defendant’s opportunity to challenge the validity of  Plaintiff’s additional claims, including at trial.  (See Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court  (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.)   Conclusion   Based  on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS the motion.   Plaintiff is to file the attached proposed Amended Complaint within 10  days.  Any responsive pleading is due within 20 days of service.Moving party is to give notice.    Dated: September 9, 2024                                         ___________________________________                                                                                     Lauren A.R. Lofton                                                                                     Judge of the Superior Court