 Case Number:  22STCV16029    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  B  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY
OF LOS ANGELES
 



CELESTE HAYDEE
   ECHEVERRIA DEFRANCO,
                        Plaintiff,
  
            vs.
 
 

COUNTY OF
   LOS ANGELES, et al.,

                        Defendants.


 
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      
CASE
  NO.: 22STCV16029
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT PBM 2 LLC’S MOTION FOR
   SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
Dept.
  B 
DATE:
  NOVEMBER 20, 2024
TIME:  8:30 A.M.
 
COMPLAINT
  FILED: MAY 13, 2022
TRIAL
  DATE: JANUARY 27, 2025



 
I.      
BACKGROUND  
            On May 13, 2022, Plaintiff Celeste
Haydee Echeverria DeFranco (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint in the instant
action against Defendants County of Los Angeles (“County”), City of Los Angeles
(“City”), and Does 1 to 100 alleging one cause of action for dangerous condition
on public property pursuant to Cal. Gov. Code § 835, et seq. Plaintiff alleges that,
on or about October 7, 2021, broken and uneven pavement at or near the sidewalk
located near 5455 Bellingham Ave., Valley Village, CA 91607, caused her to
trip, fall, and sustain serious injury. (Complaint ¶ 4.)
On August 18, 2022, the City filed
a cross-complaint against Roes 1 to 20 for three causes of action: (1)
indemnification; (2) apportionment of fault; and (3) declaratory relief.
On November 17, 2022, the City
filed an amendment to their complaint identifying PBM 2 LLC (“PBM”) as Roe 1.
On June 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed
an amendment to her complaint identifying PBM as Doe 1.
On June 5, 2024, the case was
reassigned to the Honorable Karen Moskowitz in Department B at Van Nuys
Courthouse East, effective June 24, 2024.
On September 11, 2024, PBM filed
the instant motion for summary judgment on Plaintiff’s complaint.
On November 6, 2024, Plaintiff
filed their opposition.
On November 15, 2024, PBM filed
their reply.
 
II.      
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
            PBM moves for summary judgment on Plaintiff’s
complaint on the grounds that Plaintiff’s claims must fail as a matter of law
because the governmental provisions under which Plaintiff asserts liability do
not apply to PBM, a private entity. (Motion p. 1:24-26.) PBM also argues that,
even if the provisions did apply, Plaintiff’s claim still fails because PBM did
not create or have notice of the dangerous condition which caused Plaintiff’s
injuries. (Ibid.) Finally, PBM argues that PBM did not owe pedestrians,
such as Plaintiff, a duty of care under any relevant state, municipal, or
county ordinances. (Ibid. at 27-28.)
 
III.      
LEGAL
STANDARDS 
            In reviewing a motion for summary
judgment, the Court must apply a three-step analysis: (1) identify the issues
framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has met his or her
initial burden; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the
existence of a triable, material factual issue. (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town
Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) “[T]he initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.” (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th
1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication
has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the
party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot
be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Cal.
Code of Civ. Proc. § 437c(p)(2).)
            A moving defendant may satisfy the
initial burden to show that one or more elements cannot be established by
“presenting evidence that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff's
cause of action or by relying on the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery
responses to show that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably
obtain, evidence to establish that element.” (Schmidt v. Citibank, N.A.
(2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 1109, 1119; Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 856 [It is insufficient for the defendant to merely
point out the absence of evidence.]; Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108
Cal.App.4th 884, 891.) The defendant must present evidence… showing that
plaintiff does not have and cannot reasonably obtain evidence to support his or
her claim.” (Ibid.)
            Unless and until a defendant meets
that burden, the plaintiff has no burden to present controverting evidence. (Consumer
Cause, Inc. v. SmileCare (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454, 468 [“There is no
obligation on the opposing party . . . to establish anything by affidavit
unless and until the moving party has by affidavit stated facts establishing
every element . . . necessary to sustain a judgment in his favor.”].) If a
defendant fails to meet that burden, summary judgment must be denied, even if
the plaintiff fails to file an opposition and fails to proffer any evidence.
On
the other hand, if the defendant “has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (CCP § 437c(p)(2).) The
plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations or denials in its pleadings to
show that a triable issue of material fact exists, but instead “shall set forth
the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to
the cause of action.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center
(2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)     
 
IV.      
DISCUSSION 
Judicial
Notice
Plaintiff’s November 6, 2024, request
for judicial notice is denied. Judicial notice of applicable statutes is
unnecessary and redundant as the Court can always review relevant statutes.
 
Defendant’s
Burden
PBM meets their initial burden.
To succeed on a claim for dangerous condition on public
property pursuant to Cal. Gov. Code § 835, plaintiff must show that: (1) the property was in a
dangerous condition at the time of injury; (2) the injury was proximately
caused by the dangerous condition; (3) the dangerous condition created a
reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury which occurred; and (4) that
either (a) a negligent or wrongful act or omission of a public entity employee within
the scope of his employment created the dangerous condition, or (b) the public
entity had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition with
sufficient time to remedy such condition. (Mixon v. State (2012) 207
Cal.App.4th 124, 130-131.) 
“A public entity had constructive notice of a
dangerous condition within the meaning of subdivision (b) of [Cal. Gov. Code § 835]
only if the plaintiff establishes that the condition had existed for such a
period of time and was of such an obvious nature that the public entity, in the
exercise of due care, should have discovered the condition and its dangerous
character.” (Cal. Gov. Code § 835.2(b).) “‘Dangerous condition’ means a
condition of property that creates a substantial (as distinguished from a minor,
trivial or insignificant) risk of injury when such property or adjacent
property is used with due care in a manner in which it is reasonably
foreseeable that it will be used.” (Cal. Gov. Code § 830(a).)
A public entity could be liable for a
dangerous condition of public property even where the immediate cause of a
plaintiff’s injury is a third party’s negligent or illegal act if some physical
characteristic of the property exposes its users to increased danger from third
party negligence or criminality. (Mixon, supra, 207 Cal.App.4th at 131.)
Third party conduct by itself that is unrelated to the condition of the
property does not constitute a dangerous condition for which a public entity
may be held liable. (Ibid.)
 
PBM Is a Private Entity
PBM is a private entity that does not employ
or manage public employees. (PBM Separate Statement of Facts “PBM-SSF” Nos. 1
and 2; Racette Decl. ¶ 2.) PBM has never performed work on behalf of a public
or government entity. (Ibid. No. 3; Racette Decl. ¶ 2.) PBM did not
design, develop, or construct the subject sidewalk. (Ibid. No. 4;
Racette Decl. ¶ 4.) PBM owns the apartment building which abuts a public
sidewalk, but PBM did not perform work or maintenance to its abutting lawn
which would affect, change, or otherwise alter the subject sidewalk. (Racette
Decl. ¶ 4.) Therefore, PBM sets forth evidence that it is not a public entity
for the purposes of Cal. Gov. Code § 835.
 
PBM Did Not Create or Have Notice of the Dangerous
Condition
Even if the governmental provisions did apply, PBM did
not create or have notice of the alleged dangerous condition.
To succeed on a claim of premises liability, plaintiff
must show that: (1) defendant was the owner, occupant, or lessor of the subject
premises; (2) defendant was negligent in the use, maintenance, or management of
the subject premises; and (3) defendant’s negligence was the cause of injury,
damage, loss or harm to plaintiff. (Brooks v. Eugene Burger Management Corp.
(1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 1611, 1619.) “Because the owner [of the premises] is not
the insurer of [a] visitor’s personal safety [citation], the owner’s actual or
constructive knowledge of the dangerous condition is a key to establishing its
liability.” (Ortega v. Kmart Corp. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200, 1206.) Landowner
liability as to trivial defects is generally a question of fact, but where
reasonable minds cannot differ, courts may rule that the landowner has no
liability as a matter of law. (Ursino v. Big Boy Rests (1987) 192
Cal.App.3d 394, 397-398.)
Here, PBM did not design, develop, or
construct the subject sidewalk. (PBM-SSF No. 4; Racette Decl. ¶ 4.) PBM does
not own, possess, manage, control, or maintain the subject sidewalk. (Ibid. at
No. 5; Racette Decl. ¶ 4.) Prior to the underlying incident, PBM did not
perform any work or maintenance to the grassy lawn which abuts the subject
sidewalk. (Ibid. at No. 6; Racette Decl. ¶ 6.) PBM made no changes or
alterations to the subject sidewalk. (Ibid. at No. 8; Racette Decl. ¶
6.) PBM was not made aware of any prior trip and falls on the subject sidewalk.
(Ibid. at No. 11; Racette Decl. ¶ 9.) PBM did not receive any inspection
notices from the City concerning the subject sidewalk, nor does the City have
any record of sending notices to PBM regarding the subject sidewalk for five
years prior to the underlying incident. (Ibid. at Nos. 12 and 13;
Racette Decl. ¶ 9; Leighty Decl. ¶ 6, Exh. E [City’s response to PBM’s Requests
for Admissions Nos. 15-16].) Furthermore, the City did not send notices to PBM
regarding any compliance or non-compliance with repairs or maintenance of the
subject sidewalk for five years prior to the underlying incident. (Ibid. at
Nos. 14 and 15; Leighty Decl. ¶ 6, Exh. E [City’s response to PBM’s Requests
for Admissions Ns. 17-20].) Therefore, PBM sets forth that it did not own,
possess, or maintain the subject sidewalk, nor did they have notice of any
alleged dangerous conditions.
 
Plaintiff’s Burden 
            The burden now shifts to Plaintiff to show a triable
issue of fact as to PBM’s status as a private entity, ownership or control of
the subject sidewalk, or notice of any alleged dangerous condition.
            In opposition, Plaintiff argues
that “Plaintiff’s allegations for a premises liability cause of action [can]
apply to PBM for its control over the subject premises area.” (Opposition p. 2:5-6.)
Plaintiff further argues that her complaint is “artfully alleged to include
allegations of general negligence that apply to PBM” which would render summary
judgment on the basis of PBM’s status as a private entity inappropriate. (Ibid.
at 7-9.) Plaintiff argues that, to this end, PBM’s motion for summary
judgment acts as a procedurally defective demurrer. “When any ground for
objection to a complaint, cross-complaint, or answer appears on the face
thereof, or from any matter of which the court is required to or may take
judicial notice, the objection on that ground may be taken by a demurrer to the
pleading.” (CCP § 430.30(a).) The Court agrees that, in part, PBM’s motion for
summary judgment acts as a procedurally defective demurrer.
“If
a complaint states a cause of action under any theory, regardless of the title
under which the factual basis for relief is stated, that aspect of the
complaint is good against a demurrer.” (Quelimane Co., Inc. et al. v.
Stewart Title Guaranty Co. et al. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 38.) “[The Court]
not only treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly
pleaded, but also ‘gives the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it
as a whole and its parts in their context. [Citation.]” (Ibid.)
Here,
Plaintiff’s complaint alleges facts sufficient to sustain a cause of action for
premises liability against PBM. Plaintiff alleges that “Plaintiff was walking
when, without warning, [she] came in contact with the cracked, broken,
misleveled pavement [which caused] her to fall and sustains serious injury.”
(Complaint ¶ 4.) Plaintiff’s complaint also alleges that “Defendants had a duty
of care towards all foreseeable plaintiffs, including present Plaintiff, to
keep them free from foreseeable risks of harm, including but not limited to a
duty to warn, make safe, adequately, properly, and safely maintain and inspect
[the sidewalk at or near 5455 Bellingham Ave, Valley Village, CA 91607].” (Ibid.
at ¶ 5.) Therefore, Plaintiff’s complaint, read as a whole, gives
reasonable interpretation to support a claim of premises liability against PBM.
The
Court now proceeds to consider PBM’s motion for summary judgment under this
framework. Accordingly, Plaintiff must set forth evidence showing that PBM
controlled or maintained the subject sidewalk, had notice of the alleged
dangerous condition, or otherwise owed Plaintiff a duty of care.
            Plaintiff argues that Cal. Civ. Code
§ 831, Los Angeles Municipal Code § 62.104, and Cal. Streets and Highways Code
§§ 5610-5630, et. seq., all confer a duty onto PBM of control and maintenance
of the subject sidewalk. (Plaintiff’s Response to PBM-SSF (“PR-PBM-SSF")
No. 5.) The Court now addresses each statutory argument in sequence.
 
Cal.
Civ. Code § 831
Cal.
Civ. Code § 831 states that “[a]n owner of land bounded by a road or street is
presumed to own the center of the way, but the contrary may be shown.” It’s
undisputed that PBM owns the land bounded by the subject sidewalk. While PBM
claims the subject sidewalk is publicly owned, PBM fails to set forth
supporting evidence. Therefore, a triable issue of material fact exists as to
whether PBM owned the subject sidewalk abutting its property, pursuant to Cal. Civ.
Code § 831.
 
Los
Angeles Municipal Code § 62.104
Pursuant
to L.A. Muni. Code § 62.104(b), “[t]he owner of a Lot shall maintain any
Sidewalk, Driveway, Approach, Curb Return or Curb on or fronting on the Lot in
such condition that the Sidewalk, Driveway Approach, Curb Return or Curb will
not endanger any Person or property passing thereon or violate the Americans
with Disabilities Act.” (L.A. Muni. Code § 62.104(b).) However, when read as a
whole, § 62.104 does not impute private landowners with a duty of care to any
persons who may be injured as a result of improperly maintained sidewalks which
may front their lot. Instead, it only imputes private landowners with a duty to
repair the sidewalk should the city provide notice. Here, it is undisputed that
the City did not send PBM any notices regarding the subject sidewalk. (See
PR-PBM-SSF Nos. 12 and 13.) Therefore, PBM did not owe Plaintiff a duty of care
under L.A. Muni. Code § 62.104.
 
 
Cal.
Streets and Highways Code §§ 5610-5630, et. seq.
Cal.
Streets and Highways Code § 5610 provides as follows:
“The
owners of lots or portions of lots fronting on any portion of a public street
or place   when that street or place is improved or if and when
the area between the property line of        the adjacent property and the
street line is maintained as a park or parking strip, shall     maintain
any sidewalk in such condition that the sidewalk will not endanger persons or   property
and maintain it in a condition which will not interfere with the public                                     convenience in the use of those
works or areas save and except as to those conditions                         created or maintained in, upon, along, or in
connection with such sidewalk by any person  other than the
owner, under and by virtue of any permit or right granted to him by law or 
by the city authorities in charge
thereof and such persons shall be under a like duty in 
relation thereto.”
(Cal.
Streets and Highways Code § 5610.)
            Like L.A. Muni. Code § 62.104, Cal.
Streets and Highways Code § 5610, while it addresses duties of maintenance and
repair, does not impute liability upon private landowners for injuries arising
from abutting public sidewalks. Jordan v. City of Sacramento (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 1487 held that §5610 “imposes a duty of repair on the abutting
property owners for defects in sidewalk, regardless of who created the defects,
but does not of itself create tort liability to injured pedestrians or a duty
to indemnify municipalities, except where a property owner created the defect
or exercised dominion or control over the abutting sidewalk.” Therefore, PBM
does not owe Plaintiff a duty under Cal. Streets and Highways Code § 5610,
 
V.      
CONCLUSION
            A triable issue of material fact
exists as to PBM’s ownership over the subject sidewalk pursuant to Cal. Civ.
Code § 831. Accordingly, PBM’s motion for summary judgment is DENIED.
            Moving party is ordered to give
notice.
 
 
Dated: November 20,
 2024                             __________________________________
                                                                                                Hon. Karen Moskowitz
                                                                                                Judge
of the Superior Court
            