  Case Number:  21STCV40815    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
A.   Case number 21STCV40815 
On
November 5, 2021, Plaintiff Southern California Edison Company (“Edison”) filed
an action against Defendants Jeffery Alan Blanchette, Sr. (“Blanchette”), and
Does 1-10 for negligence and damages by self-insured employer under Labor Code
section 3852 et seq.  (Case number
21STCV40815.) 
On
May 9, 2022, Blanchette filed an answer. 
On
December 1, 2022, Edison amended the complaint to include Defendant Seeley Brothers (“Seeley”) as Doe 1 and Seeley Bros (“Seeley
Bros”) as Doe 2. 
On
January 10, 2023, Edison filed a first amended complaint against Blanchette,
Seeley, Seeley Bros, and Does 1-10 for negligence and statutory liability. 
On
January 17, 2023, Blanchette filed an answer to Edison’s first amended
complaint. 
On
March 20, 2023, Seeley filed an answer to Edison’s first amended complaint. 
On
May 24, 2024, the Court dismissed Seeley and Seeley Bros with prejudice at
Edison’s request. 
B.   Case number 21STCV43711 
On
November 30, 2021, Plaintiff Keith Yarbrough (“Yarbrough”) filed an action
against Defendants Jeffery Alan Sr Blanchette and Does 1-10 for negligence and
negligence per se.  (Case number
21STCV43711.) 
On
September 9, 2022, Blanchette (erroneously sued as Jeffery Alan Sr Blanchette) filed an answer. 
On
November 3, 2022, Yarbrough amended the complaint to include Seeley as Doe 1
and Seeley Bros as Doe 2. 
On
December 28, 2022, Yarbrough filed a first amended complaint against
Blanchette, Seeley, Seeley Bros, and Does 1-10 for negligence and negligence
per se. 
On
January 17, 2023, Blanchette filed an answer to Yarbrough’s first amended
complaint. 
On
March 20, 2023, Seeley filed an answer to Yarbrough’s first amended complaint. 
C.   The Court related and consolidates the cases 
On
May 17, 2022, the Court found that case numbers 21STCV40815 and 21STCV43711 are
related within the meaning of California Rules of Court, rule 3.300(a).  21STCV40815 became the lead case. The cases
were assigned to Department 28 at the Spring Street Courthouse for all
purposes. 
On
May 18, 2022, the Court ordered cases
numbers 21STCV40815 and 21STCV43711 consolidated and assigned to Department 28
in the Spring Street Courthouse for all purposes. The Court designated
21STCV40815 as the lead case. 
D.   Seeley’s motion for summary judgment 
On
March 22, 2024, Seeley filed a motion for summary judgment of Yarbrough’s first
amended complaint, to be heard on June 5, 2024. On May 22, 2024, Yarbrough filed
an opposition.  On May 31, 2024, Seeley
filed a reply. 
The
Court continued the hearing to June 7, 2024. 
Trial
is scheduled for August 5, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Seeley
asks the Court to grant summary judgment of Yarbrough’s first amended
complaint. 
Yarbrough
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS 
          Yarbrough’s objections: 
                   Sustained: Sustained: 9-14, 16                    Overruled: 1-8, 15, 17-18
           Seeley’s objections:                    Sustained: 
1-2 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Summary judgment 
          “‘[F]rom commencement to conclusion, the party moving for
summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue
of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’”  (LAOSD Asbestos Cases (2023) 87
Cal.App.5th 949, 945, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar).) “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a
burden of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence
of a triable issue of material fact.”  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 850.)  
          When the moving party is a defendant, it must show that the
plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at
p. 853.) “The defendant has shown that the plaintiff cannot establish at least
one element of the cause of action by showing that the plaintiff does not
possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Id. at p. 854.) The defendant must
“present evidence, and not simply point out that the plaintiff does not
possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Ibid.) Thus, “the defendant must
‘support[ ]’ the ‘motion’ with evidence including ‘affidavits, declarations,
admissions, answers to interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which
judicial notice’ must or may ‘be taken.’ [Citation.] The defendant may, but
need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an element of the
plaintiff’s cause of action. The defendant may also present evidence that the
plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as
through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect
that he has discovered nothing.”  (Id.
at p. 855, original emphasis.)  
          “Supporting and opposing affidavits or declarations . . .
shall set forth admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).)
“Matters which would be excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a
witness in a trial as hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be
disregarded in supporting affidavits.”  (Hayman
v. Block (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 629, 639.) 
          In addition, a party moving for summary judgment or summary
adjudication must support the motion with “a separate statement setting forth
plainly and concisely all material facts which the moving party contends are
undisputed. Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference
to the supporting evidence.” (Parkview Villas Assn. v. State Farm Fire &
Casualty Co. (2006) 133 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1209 (Parkview Villas),
quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1) [motion for summary judgment];
see Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(2) [motion for summary adjudication
“shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment”].)
The party opposing the motion must file with the opposition papers “a separate
statement that responds to each of the material facts contended by the moving
party to be undisputed, indicating whether the opposing party agrees or
disagrees that those facts are undisputed. The statement also shall set forth
plainly and concisely any other material facts that the opposing party contends
are disputed. Each material fact contended by the opposing party to be disputed
shall be followed by a reference to the supporting evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (b)(3).)  If either party
fails to comply with the applicable separate statement requirement, that
failure may in the court’s discretion constitute a sufficient ground to decide
the motion adversely to the offending party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds.
(b)(1), (3).)   
          In ruling on the motion, the court must consider all the
evidence and all the inferences reasonably drawn from it and must view such
evidence and inferences in the light most favorable to the opposing party.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at
p. 843.)  
B.   Vicarious liability 
“[A]
principal who personally engages in no misconduct may be vicariously liable for
the tortious act committed by an agent within the course and scope of the
agency. [Citation.] Agency is the relationship which results from the
manifestation of consent by one person to another that the other shall act on
his behalf and subject to his control, and consent by the other so to act . . .
.[Citation.]” (Barenborg v. Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity (2019) 33
Cal.App.5th 70, 85.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   First amended complaint 
Yarbrough’s
first amended complaint alleges the following facts: 
On
December 5, 2019, Blanchette’s pickup truck rear-ended Yarbrough’s vehicle on
the southbound 405 freeway in Los Angeles, injuring Yarbrough.  At the time of the accident, Blanchette was
acting within the course and scope of his employment for Seeley.  Blanchette “performed a job assignment of
carpentry work for [Seeley] in the city of Century City, Los Angeles County,
immediately before the incident. [Blanchette] needed to drive his own vehicle
to commute from his home to perform [Seeley’s] job in Century City for the
benefit of [Seeley].”  Blanchette “regularly
drove his vehicle to different job sites for performing job duties required by
[Seeley].” 
Seeley
is responsible for Yarbrough’s injuries because Blanchette was acting as
Seeley’s agent when the incident occurred. 
Seeley authorized Blanchette to act within the course and scope of his
employment, representation, and/or agency. 
B.   Undisputed facts 
Blanchette
was employed by Seeley.  On December 5,
2019, Blanchette was assigned to install
cabinets at 1942 Century Park East in Century City.  Blanchette
drove his personal vehicle from his home to the job in Century City. 
The
same day, vehicles driven by Yarbrough and Blanchette were involved in an
accident.  Yarbrough alleges he was
injured in the accident. 
Yarbrough
argues that Blanchette was acting within the course and scope of his employment
with Seeley at the time of the accident, making Seeley liable. 
C.   Other evidence 
1.    Blanchette’s deposition (Exh. J) 
At
his October 24, 2022 deposition, Blanchette testified that in December 2019,
when Seeley assigned him to install cabinets, he would commute to the places he
needed to install the cabinets by “get[ting] in my car . . . and driv[ing] to
the job . . . .”  (Blanchette depo. p.
11.) 
The
accident happened on December 5, 2019.  Blanchette
had commuted to the work site in Century City from his home in Orange County
using his personal car.  (Blanchette
depo. pp. 14-15.)  Blanchette was at the
Century City job site, where Seeley had sent him to install cabinets, from 5:00
a.m. to 1:00 p.m.  (Blanchette depo. p.
15.)  Then Blanchette got off work and
was going home.  (Blanchette depo. p. 18.)  The accident took place at 1:15 or 1:20
p.m.  (Blanchette depo. p. 15.) 
2.    Blanchette’s amended responses to special
interrogatories, set one (Exh. N) 
Yarborough’s
special interrogatory 6 asked, “Describe the purposes of any commutes YOU made
on December 5, 2019 prior to the INCIDENT.” 
In his amended response, Blanchette stated: 
“Objection. Irrelevant. Not reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Invasion of privacy. Without
waiving said objections, at the time of the subject incident responding party
was going home after completing his day at work. Responding party commuted from
his residence to the jobsite that morning, was present at the same jobsite all
day, and he left work at the end of his workday to go home. He did not make any
stops after leaving the jobsite, and was not intending on running any errands
after leaving work on his way home. He was traveling from the jobsite to his
residence in his own personal vehicle, and his purpose was to go home when the
subject incident occurred.” 
D.   Seeley’s summary judgment motion 
1.    Seeley has carried its initial burden on summary
judgment based on the going and coming rule 
Seeley
argues that it is not vicariously liable for Blanchette’s alleged negligence
because, as a matter of law, Blanchette was not acting in the course and scope
of his employment with Seeley at the time of the accident. 
To
support this argument, Seeley cites Blanchette’s discovery responses stating
that he was not acting in the course and scope of his employment.  “Evidentiary facts are required to support a
summary judgment.  Conclusions of fact or
law are not sufficient.”  (L. Edmon &
C. Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶
10:119, p. 10-52.)  Blanchette’s
discovery responses stating he was not acting in the course and scope of
employment is a conclusion of law that does not carry Seeley’s initial burden
on summary judgment. 
Seeley
also cites the “going and coming” rule.  “An
employee’s commute to and from the workplace is generally not considered to be
within the course and scope of employment.” (Newland v. County of Los
Angeles (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 676, 685.) “This rule, commonly referred to
as the ‘going and coming rule,’ is grounded in the notion that ‘the employment
relationship is “suspended” from the time the employee leaves until he returns
[citation], or that in commuting he is not rendering service to his employer.’ ”
(Id. at 686.) 
Seeley
has presented evidence that Blanchette had finished work for the day and was on
his way home when the accident occurred, making a prima facie showing that the
“going and coming” rule applies.  Therefore,
Seeley has carried its initial burden on summary judgment, shifting the burden
to Yarborough. 
2.    Plaintiff has not raised a triable issue of fact 
Plaintiff
asserts that the “vehicle use exception” to the “going and coming” rule supports
his vicarious liability claim.  “ ‘The
required-vehicle exception to the going and coming rule and its variants have
been given many labels.’ ” (Savaikie v. Kaiser Foundation Hospitals
(2020) 52 Cal.App.5th 223, 230 (Savaikie), quoting Pierson v. Helmerich & Payne
Industrial Drilling Co. (2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 608, 624 (Pierson).)  “Regardless of the label, the exception ‘covers
situations where there is an express or implied employer requirement. “If an
employer requires an employee to furnish a vehicle as an express or implied
condition of employment, the employee will be in the scope of his employment
while commuting to and from the place of his employment.” ’ ” (Ibid.,
quoting Pierson, supra, 4 Cal.App.5th a p. 625.)  “Whether there is an express or implied
requirement ‘ “can be a question of fact for the jury,” ’ but “the question of
fact sometimes can be decided by a court as a matter of law.’ ” (Ibid.,
quoting Pierson, supra, 4 Cal.App.5th at p. 626.) 
In Savaikie,
the Court of Appeal held that the plaintiff did not raise a triable issue of
fact regarding the required-vehicle exception by testifying that his employer’s
“arrangement” was that he would drive his own vehicle.[1]  (Savaikie, supra,
52 Cal.App.5th at p. 230.)  The court
reasoned, “Even reading ‘arrangement’ broadly to mean ‘agreement,’ an agreement
between [the employer] and [the plaintiff] that [the plaintiff] would drive his
own car would not establish or suggest that driving a personal vehicle was a
requirement of the job. It does not contradict [the employer’s] testimony that
using other methods of transportation, such as Uber or Lyft, was permissible,
and thus other ‘arrangements’ or agreements were permissible.”  (Ibid.)  In addition, “[p]ayment for travel expenses
is not evidence of an implied requirement that an employee use his own vehicle,
or have it available for use, as a condition of employment.”  (Id. at p. 231.)  And “ ‘the need to
show up for work at different sites [does not render] the employee’s commute
extraordinary—or for the benefit of the employer.’ ”  (Ibid., quoting Jorge v. Culinary
Institute of America (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 382, 405 (Jorge); see Jorge,
supra, 3 Cal.App.5th at p. 405 [“the fact the employee reported to work
at different, and constantly changing, remote locations did not make his
regular commute to and from work part of his job”].) 
The
Court of Appeal also concluded that the plaintiff’s use of his vehicle did not
provide an “incidental benefit” to the employer. (Savaikie, supra,
52 Cal.App.5th at p. 232.)  The court
viewed the “incidental benefit” inquiry as “a factor to be considered in
deciding whether an implied vehicle use requirement exists,” not as an independent
basis for the required use exception.  (Ibid.)
Because the Court of Appeal had determined that the evidence did not support a
reasonable inference that the plaintiff was required to drive his own vehicle,
the court concluded that the plaintiff had not shown a triable issue of
material fact concerning the implied benefit exception.  (Id. at p. 233.) 
Nonetheless,
citing what it viewed as dicta in Lobo v. Tamco (2010) 182 Cal.App.4th
297 (Lobo), the Court of Appeal in Savaikie also considered
whether “ ‘the employee has agreed, expressly or implicitly, to make the
vehicle available as an accommodation to the employer and the employer has “reasonably
come to rely upon its use and [to] expect the employee to make the vehicle
available on a regular basis while still not requiring it as a condition of
employment.” ’ ” (Savaikie, supra, 52 Cal.App.5th at p. 233, quoting
Lobo, supra, 182 Cal.App.4th at p. 301.)   The court concluded there was no evidence that the
employer encouraged or relied on the plaintiff’s use of his own car to drive to
work sites.  “There is no evidence [the
employer] derived a different or additional benefit from [the plaintiff’s] use
of his car to commute to [work locations] than it would have received had he
used any other form of transportation.” 
(Ibid.)  Therefore, no
triable issue of material fact concerning this variation of the implied benefit
exception applied.  (Ibid.) 
Yarborough
attempts to thread the needle of the required use exception by presenting portions
of Seeley’s employee handbook and “injury prevention program and safety manual”
addressing the company’s policies for the use of private vehicles for company
use, including a mileage reimbursement policy. 
The Court has sustained Seeley’s objections to this evidence because it
begs the question whether Seeley expressly or impliedly required Blanchette to
use his private vehicle.  Absent evidence
raising a triable issue of fact on this issue, the policies stated in the handbook
and manual are irrelevant. 
Yarborough
also argues: “Blanchette was employed in a role that necessitated the use of
his personal vehicle for work-related tasks. . . . Blanchette, employed as a cabinet installer by
[Seeley], had to travel to various job sites to perform installations. . . . [¶]
This necessity of personal vehicle use conferred
a clear incidental benefit to the employers by ensuring timely and effective completion
of job duties, which was essential for maintaining customer satisfaction and
operational efficiency.”  (Opposition pp.
7-8.)  But Yarborough cites no evidence showing
that Seeley implicitly or explicitly required Blanchette to use his personal
vehicle rather than, for example, public transit, a taxi, or a ride-sharing
service. 
Yarborough
has not raised a triable issue of fact concerning whether the required vehicle
exception to the going and coming rule applies in this case.  Therefore, the Court finds that Seeley cannot
be vicariously liable as a matter of law based on Blanchette’s alleged
negligence.  The Court grants Seeley’s
motion for summary judgment. 
CONCLUSION 
          The Court GRANTS Defendant Seeley Brothers’s motion for
summary judgment of the first amended complaint filed by Plaintiff Keith Yarbrough. 
          Moving party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
          Moving party is ordered to file the proof of service of
this ruling with the Court within five days.

