 Case Number:  22STCV32972    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
October 7, 2022, Plaintiff Andrez Lizarraga (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Walmart, Inc. (“Walmart”), Manager Katherine Chou (“Chou”),
and Does 1-50 for general negligence and premises liability. 
On
April 5, 2024, the Court dismissed the action without prejudice. 
On
April 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to set aside the dismissal to be heard
on June 7, 2024. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to set aside the dismissal. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b),
provides in part: 
“The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve
a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order,
or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall
be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. . . . Notwithstanding any other
requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application for
relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper
form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting
default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result
in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal
entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or
dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect. The court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an
attorney’s affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable
compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties. However, this
section shall not lengthen the time within which an action shall be brought to
trial pursuant to Section 583.310.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (b).) 
DISCUSSION 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to vacate the dismissal under the discretionary or mandatory relief
provisions of Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b).  Plaintiff contends the dismissal was the
result of his counsel’s calendaring error. 
The Court
finds that the dismissal was the result of mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.  The Court grants the
motion. 
CONCLUSION
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff Andrez Lizarraga’s motion to set aside the April 5, 2024
order dismissing the case.  The Court
vacates the April 5, 2024 dismissal. 
The
Court sets an OSC Re: Failure to File Proof of Service of Summons and Complaint
on July 7, 2024, at 8:30 a.m., in Department 28 of the Spring Street
Courthouse. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.