 Case Number:  23STCV23266    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
September 26, 2023, Plaintiff Erica Charles (“Charles”) filed this action
against Defendants Denny Gem-Chen Hsu (“Hsu”) and Does 1-26 for negligence. On
February 5, 2024, Charles amended the complaint to add Defendant CareCredit LLC
as Doe 1. 
On
November 20, 2023, Hsu filed an answer and a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendants Charles and Roes 1-10 for negligence and motor vehicle tort.
 On May
21, 2024, Charles filed an answer to Hsu’s cross-complaint. 
On May
9, 2024, the Court denied Hsu’s motion to file another cross-complaint without
prejudice to filing a motion to amend the cross-complaint filed on November 20,
2023. 
On
May 10, 2024, Hsu filed a motion for leave to amend his cross-complaint to be
heard on June 7, 2024.  No party has
filed opposition to the motion. 
Trial
is scheduled for March 25, 2025. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
Hsu
asks the Court for leave to amend his cross-complaint (1) to include United Parcel
Service Inc. and Roes 1-20 as defendants and (2) to allege claims against them
for indemnity and contribution (including express indemnity). 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 “The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1).) 
“Any
judge, at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any
pleading or pretrial conference order.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 576; see Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324.) 
“ ‘While
a motion to permit an amendment to a pleading to be filed is one addressed to
the discretion of the court, the exercise of this discretion must be sound and
reasonable and not arbitrary or capricious. [Citations.] And it is a rare case
in which “a court will be justified in refusing a party leave to amend his
pleadings so that he may properly present his case.” [Citations.] If the motion
to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the
opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and where the refusal
also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious
cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error but an abuse of
discretion. [Citations.]’ ”  (Redevelopment
Agency v. Herrold (1978) 86 Cal.App.3d 1024, 1031, quoting Morgan v.
Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) 
“[I]t
is an abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was
not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v.
Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 (Kittredge).)  “Prejudice exists where the amendment would
result in a delay of trial, along with loss of critical evidence, added costs
of preparation, increased burden of discovery, etc.”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 6:656, p. 6-193 (Cal.
Practice Guide).) 
“Ordinarily,
the judge will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in
deciding whether to grant leave to amend. . . . After leave to amend is
granted, the opposing party will have the opportunity to attack the validity of
the amended pleading.” (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 6:644, pp. 6-189
to 6-190.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Charles’s complaint 
Charles’s
complaint alleges the following. 
On or about October 6, 2021, at the intersection of
Irolo St. and Wilshire Blvd. in Los Angeles, Defendants negligently entrusted,
maintained, controlled, managed, drove, manufactured, operated, repaired,
distributed, inspected, and repaired their automobile, causing it to collide
and come into direct contact with Charles’s vehicle, injuring Charles. 
B.   Hsu’s cross-complaint 
Hsu’s
cross-complaint alleges the following: 
Charles
caused the collision by driving a vehicle at an unsafe speed with willful or
wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property including Hsu.  As a result, Hsu has suffered injuries. 
Other
Cross-Defendants also breached their duty
to Hsu by negligently and carelessly operating, servicing, repairing, maintaining,
and/or inspecting the vehicle, injuring Hsu. 
C.   Hsu’s motion for leave to amend the cross-complaint 
Hsu
asks the Court for leave to amend his cross-complaint (1) to include United
Parcel Service Inc. and Roes 1-20 as defendants and (2) to allege claims
against them for indemnity and contribution (including express indemnity).
 The proposed
amended cross-complaint alleges that United Parcel Service, Inc. failed to
exercise reasonable care by parking its vehicle in an illegal parking zone.  The new allegations arise out of the same
transactions or occurrence alleged in the existing complaint and cross-complaint. 
The
Court finds that United Parcel Service, Inc. will not be prejudiced by an order
granting Hsu’s motion.  Trial is
currently scheduled for March 25, 2025, giving the parties ample time for
discovery and trial preparation. 
The
Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant and Cross-Complainant Denny Gem-Chen Hsu’s motion for leave to amend his cross-complaint.
Defendant and Cross-Complainant Denny Gem-Chen
Hsu is to file and serve the amended cross-complaint within 30 days of the
hearing on this motion. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.