 Case Number:  23STCV01612    Hearing Date:   March 18, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



ADAN GOMEZ-RIVERA,  
  
         vs.
 
ADB GLOBAL TRADE LLC, et al.


 Case No.: 
  23STCV01612
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  March 18, 2024



 
Defendant American Marble & Onyx
Co., Inc.’s demurrer to Plaintiff Adan Gomez-Rivera’s first amended complaint
is overruled as moot.
Defendant
American Marble & Onyx Co., Inc.’s motion to strike is denied as moot. 
Defendant Terrazzo &
Marble Supply Co. of Illinois’ demurrer to Plaintiff Adan Gomez-Rivera’s second
amended complaint is overruled.
Defendant
Terrazzo & Marble Supply Co. of Illinois’ motion to strike Plaintiff’s
request for punitive damages is granted with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Defendant American Marble & Onyx Co., Inc. (“American Marble”)
(“Defendant”) demurs to Plaintiff Adan
Gomez-Rivera’s (“Gomez-Rivera”) (“Plaintiff”) first amended complaint (“FAC”).  (Notice of Demurrer
American Marble, pgs. 1-2; C.C.P. §430.10(e).)  American Marble also moves to strike portions
of the FAC.  (Notice of MTS American
Marble, pgs. 2-3.)
Defendant Terrazzo & Marble Supply Co. of Illinois (“Terrazzo”)
(“Defendant”) demurs to Plaintiff’s second
amended complaint (“SAC”).  (Notice of Demurrer Terrazzo, pgs. 1-2;
C.C.P. §430.10(e).)  Terrazzo also moves
to strike portions of the SAC.  (Notice
of MTS Terrazzo, pgs. 2-3.)
 
Background
Plaintiff filed his initial Complaint on January 25, 2023.  On March 2, 2023, Plaintiff filed his FAC.  On November 15, 2023, this Court sustained
demurrers to Plaintiff’s FAC with 20 days leave to amend.  (11/15/23 Minute Order.)   On December 5, 2023, Plaintiff filed his
operative SAC against American Marble, Terrazzo, and numerous other Non-moving
Defendants (collectively, “Defendants”) alleging five causes of action: (1)
negligence; (2) strict liability- warning defect; (3) strict liability- design
defect; (4) fraudulent concealment; and (5) breach of implied warranties.
This action arises out of Plaintiff’s employment from about 2004
to 2022 in Los Angeles in which he cut, fabricated, and installed granite,
marble, and other natural and artificial stone countertops, mostly in homes. 
(SAC ¶81.)  Plaintiff alleges through the course of his work, he worked
with inherently hazardous products manufactured, distributed by Defendants and
Plaintiff was thereby exposed to and inhaled toxicologically significant
amounts of silica, metals, and other fibrogenic substances from said products,
and developed silicosis and other related consequential injuries, and for which
Plaintiff needs to receive a lung transplant to save his life.  (SAC ¶92.) 

On October 10, 2023, American Marble filed its demurrer to the FAC
and motion to strike.  On March 5, 2024,
Plaintiff filed his oppositions to American Marble’s demurrer and motion to
strike.  As of the date of this hearing
no replies have been filed by American Marble.
On January 4, 2024, Terrazzo filed its demurrer to the SAC and
motion to strike.  On January 26, 2024,
Plaintiff filed his oppositions.  On
March 11, 2024, Terrazzo filed its replies.
 
A.  
American Marble’s Demurrer to FAC and
Motion to Strike FAC
In light of the fact that Plaintiff filed the operative SAC more than
nine court days before the hearing on the instant motion, American Marble’s
demurrer to Plaintiff’s FAC is overruled as moot, and its Motion to Strike
Plaintiff’s FAC is denied as moot.
 
Conclusion
American Marble’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s FAC is overruled as moot.
American Marble’s motion to strike portions of Plaintiff’s FAC is denied
as moot.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
B.   
Terrazzo’s Demurrer to SAC
Summary of Demurrer
Terrazzo demurs to Plaintiff’s 5th cause of action for breach of
implied warranties on the basis the cause of action is vague, ambiguous, and
unintelligible, specifically in that Plaintiff fails to allege sufficient facts
to establish all elements of this cause of action, and because the pleading is
uncertain.  (Demurrer Terrazzo, pg. 2;
C.C.P. §§430.10(e), (f).)[1]
 
          Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring
party shall meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the
purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve
the objections to be raised in the demurrer. 
(C.C.P. §430.41(a), emphasis added.) 
A declaration must be filed with a demurrer regarding the results of the
meet and confer process.  (C.C.P.
§430.41(a)(3).)
Terrazzo’s counsel’s declaration states he corresponded in writing
with to Plaintiff’s counsel prior to filing the instant demurrer.  (See Decl. of Phillips ¶4, Exh.
A.)  Defendant’s counsel’s declaration is
insufficient under C.C.P. §430.41(a)(3) because he did not meet and confer in
person or by telephone, as required by the statute.  However, failure to sufficiently meet and
confer is not grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a)(4).)  Accordingly, the Court will consider the
instant demurrer.
 
Legal Standard
“[A] demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc.
(2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable.  (See Donabedian v.
Mercury Insurance Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a
demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to
judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their
contents].)  For purposes of ruling on a
demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the
reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law.  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital District
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Failure to State a Claim
Breach of Implied
Warranties (5th COA)
A cause of action for breach of implied
warranty of merchantability requires the following elements: (1) plaintiff
bought the product from defendant; (2) that, at the time of purchase, defendant
was in the business of selling these goods or by its occupation held itself out
as having special knowledge or skill regarding these goods; (3) the product was
not of the same quality as those generally acceptable in the trade, or was not
fit for the ordinary purposes for which such goods are used, or did not conform
to the quality established by the parties’ prior dealings or by usage of trade;
(4) plaintiff took reasonable steps to notify defendant that the product did
not have the expected quality; (5) plaintiff was harmed; and (6) the failure of
the product to have the expected quality was a substantial factor in causing
plaintiff’s harm.  (See CACI
1231.)
“Vertical privity is a prerequisite in
California for recovery on a theory of breach of the implied warranties of
fitness and merchantability.” (United States Roofing, Inc. v. Credit
Alliance Corp. (1991) 228 Cal.App.3d 1431, 1441, internal citations
omitted.)
“[I]n view of modern industrial usage
employe[e]s should be considered a member of the industrial ‘family’ of the
employer—whether corporate or private— and to thus stand in such privity to the
manufacturer as to permit the employe[e]s to be covered by warranties made to
the purchaser-employer. [¶] We are persuaded that this position is
meritorious.” (Peterson v. Lamb Rubber Co. (1960) 54 Cal.2d 339, 347.)
The giving of notice to the seller is not
required in personal injury or property damage lawsuits against a manufacturer
or another supplier with whom the plaintiff has not directly dealt.  (Greenman v. Yuba Power Products, Inc.
(1963) 59 Cal.2d 57, 61; Gherna v. Ford Motor Co. (1966) 246 Cal.App.2d
639, 652-653.)
Plaintiff alleges the following stone products
from Terrazzo were cut, drilled, polished, fabricated and/or installed by
Plaintiff and to which he was injuriously exposed in his work as a cutter,
fabricator, and installer: Azerocare, Difiniti Quartz, Diresco Belgian Quartz,
Engineered Stone, Grainte, Limestone, Marble, Onyx, Porcelain, Quartz,
Quartzite, Serpentine, Soapstone, Terrazzo, Travertine, and other
crystalline-silica containing products to be identified in the course of
discovery.  (SAC ¶80.)
Plaintiff alleges at all times mentioned herein, Defendants were
the importers, producers and distributors of inherently hazardous stone
products which were purchased by Plaintiff’s employers and delivered to
Plaintiff’s employers’ facilities located in Los Angeles County, where
Plaintiff, was exposed to Defendants’ toxic stone products.  (SAC ¶917.) 
Plaintiff alleges Defendants’ stone products to which Plaintiff was
exposed are toxic and fibrogenic.  (SAC ¶918.)  
Plaintiff alleges by placing their inherently hazardous stone
products in the stream of commerce, Defendants impliedly warranted that their
stone products were reasonably fit for their intended uses, that their stone
products were of merchantable quality, that they were not defective, that they
would function as safely as ordinary users would expect when used in an
intended or reasonably foreseeable manner, and that they would not cause
serious disease, harm, or death.  (SAC ¶919.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants, and each of
them, breached said implied warranties, because their inherently hazardous
stone products were not reasonably fit for their intended uses, were not of merchantable
quality, were defective, and failed to function as safely as an ordinary user
would expect when used in an intended or reasonably foreseeable manner, and
caused serious injuries to Plaintiff, to wit, silicosis, pulmonary fibrosis and
other injuries and disease.  (SAC ¶920.)
          Plaintiff alleges from
his use of the foregoing inherently hazardous stone products, he was exposed to
toxins, including silica and metals, in Defendants’ stone products.  (SAC ¶921.) 
Plaintiff alleges each of the inherently toxic stone products to which
Plaintiff was exposed was manufactured and/or supplied by Defendants, including
the Doe Defendants.  (SAC ¶922.)  
Plaintiff alleges as a result of Plaintiff’s exposure to
Defendants’ stone products, toxins, including silica and metals, within said
stone products entered his body.  (SAC ¶923.)  Plaintiff alleges he suffers from a specific
illness, to wit, silicosis and pulmonary fibrosis, as well as other related and
consequential medical conditions.  (SAC
¶924.)  Plaintiff alleges each
of Defendants’ inherently hazardous stone products caused his silicosis,
pulmonary fibrosis, and other injuries.  (SAC
¶925.)
Plaintiff alleges each toxin, including silica and metals, that
entered Plaintiff’s body was a substantial factor in bringing about,
prolonging, and aggravating his silicosis, pulmonary fibrosis, and other
related and consequential injuries.  (SAC
¶926.)
Plaintiff alleges as a direct and proximate
result of Defendants’ breaches of implied warranties, Plaintiff has suffered
serious injuries and disease, including silicosis, pulmonary fibrosis, and
other related and consequential medical conditions.  (SAC ¶927.) 
Plaintiff alleges as a direct and proximate result of
Defendants’ breaches of implied warranties, Plaintiff has been required to
expend money and incur obligations for medical and related expenses in an
amount not yet determined but well in excess of the jurisdictional minimum of
the Court, and Plaintiff has been unable to attend to his usual employment and activities.  (SAC ¶928.) 
Plaintiff alleges as a further direct and proximate result of
Defendants’ breaches of implied warranties, Plaintiff has suffered lost income
and will continue to suffer loss of future income, support and maintenance, all
to Plaintiff’s damage in a sum according to proof.  (SAC ¶929.)  Plaintiff alleges as a further direct result
of Defendants’ breaches of implied warranties, Plaintiff has suffered and will
continue to suffer general damages, according to proof.  (SAC ¶930.)
          Plaintiff
sufficiently alleges a cause of action for breach of implied warranty of
merchantability: (1) plaintiff established vertical privity by way of his
employers’ purchase of the product (SAC ¶¶80, 917); (2) that, at the time of
purchase, defendant was in the business of selling these goods or by its
occupation held itself out as having special knowledge or skill regarding these
goods (SAC ¶917); (3) that by placing
their inherently hazardous stone products in the stream of commerce, Defendants
impliedly warranted that their stone products were reasonably fit for their
intended uses, that their stone products were of merchantable quality, that
they were not defective, that they would function as safely as ordinary users
would expect when used in an intended or reasonably foreseeable manner, and
that they would not cause serious disease, harm, or death, and Defendants’ inherently
hazardous stone products were not reasonably fit for their intended uses, were
not of merchantable quality, were defective, and failed to function as safely
as an ordinary user would expect when used in an intended or reasonably
foreseeable manner, and caused serious injuries to Plaintiff, to wit,
silicosis, pulmonary fibrosis and other injuries and disease (SAC ¶¶919, 920.);
(4) [omitted on the basis Plaintiff is not required to give noticed to a seller
in a personal injury lawsuit against a manufacturer with whom Plaintiff has not
directly dealt]; (5) plaintiff was harmed (i.e., SAC ¶926); and (6) the failure of the product to have the
expected quality was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm (SAC ¶¶927-930).
          Accordingly, Terrazzo’s
demurrer to Plaintiff’s 5th cause of action for breach of implied warranties is
overruled.
 
Conclusion
Terrazzo’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s SAC is overruled.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
C.   
Motion to Strike
Summary of Motion
Terrazzo move to strike the following sections and prayers for relief from
the SAC pertaining to punitive damages on the basis they are not permitted by
law: (1) ¶775; (2) ¶791; (3) ¶816; (4) ¶915; and (5) Prayer ¶8.  (Notice of Motion Terrazzo, pgs. 2-3; C.C.P.
§§435, 436.)
 
Legal Standard
C.C.P. §436 provides that the Court
may, upon a motion made pursuant to C.C.P. §435, or at any time within its
discretion and upon terms it deems proper, “strike out any irrelevant, false,
or improper matter inserted in any pleading.” 
(C.C.P. §436(a).)
 
Punitive
Damages
Punitive
damages may be recovered upon a proper showing of malice, fraud, or oppression.
 (Civ. Code §3294(a).)  “Malice” is defined as conduct intended to
cause injury to a person or despicable conduct carried on with a willful and
conscious disregard for the rights or safety of others.  (Turman v. Turning Point of Cent. Cal.,
Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.)  “Oppression” means despicable conduct
subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship, in conscious disregard of the
person’s rights.  (Id.)  “Fraud” is an intentional misrepresentation,
deceit, or concealment of a material fact known by defendant, with intent to
deprive a person of property, rights or otherwise cause injury.  (Id.) 
Conclusory allegations, devoid of any factual assertions, are
insufficient to support a conclusion that parties acted with oppression, fraud,
or malice.  (Smith v. Superior Court
(1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042.)
“Conduct which warrants punitive
damages must be of ‘such severity or shocking character [as] warrants the same
treatment as accorded to willful misconduct – conduct in which defendant
intends to cause harm.’”  (Woolstrum
v. Mailloux (1983) 141 Cal.App.3d Supp. 1, 10, quoting Nolin v. National
Convenience Stores, Inc. (1979) 95 Cal.App.3d 279, 286.)  “[C]onclusory characterization of defendant’s
conduct as intentional, willful and fraudulent is a patently insufficient
statement of ‘oppression, fraud, or malice, express or
implied,’ within the meaning of section
3294.”  (Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977)
73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.)
Plaintiff’s SAC alleges the following:
In exposing Plaintiff to said toxic and fibrogenic stone
products, Defendants failed to warn Plaintiff of known dangers, consciously
disregarded Plaintiff’s safety despite knowledge of the probable dangerous
consequences of their products, and willfully and deliberately failed to avoid
said dangerous consequences befalling Plaintiff. Defendants were either aware
of, or culpably indifferent to, unnecessary risks of injury to Plaintiff and
failed and refused to take steps to eliminate or adequately reduce the risk of
said dangerous consequences to Plaintiff. Defendants concealed known hazards of
their stone products from Plaintiff, specifically by failing to warn Plaintiff
of adverse toxic effects of their stone products, and such hazards were known
by and such concealment was ratified by the corporate officers and managers of
each of the defendants.
 
Defendants consciously decided to market their stone
products with knowledge of their harmful effects, without remedying the toxic
effects of their stone products, and without providing use instructions
adequate to prevent silicosis, despite knowledge of the foregoing toxic hazards
of Defendants’ products was ratified by the corporate officers and managers of
each of the defendants. Defendants also misrepresented the nature of their
stone products, by withholding information from Plaintiff regarding toxic and
fibrogenic chemicals released from their products during their anticipated or
reasonably foreseeable uses, and such misrepresentation and withholding of
information was ratified by the corporate officers and managers of each of the
defendants.
 
Defendants’ conduct in exposing Plaintiff to said toxic and
fibrogenic stone products without adequate warnings of their toxic hazards and
without adequate instructions for safe handling and use of their toxic products
was despicable, malicious, oppressive, and perpetrated in conscious disregard
of the rights and safety of Plaintiff, entitling Plaintiff to punitive and
exemplary damages.
 
(SAC ¶¶814-816.)
Plaintiff’s allegations in its cause of
action for fraudulent concealment support his request for punitive damages on
the basis of fraud.  However, an award of
punitive damages against a corporation also requires proof of oppression,
fraud, or malice committed or authorized by a corporate officer, director, or
managing agent who “exercise[ ] substantial discretionary authority over
decisions that ultimately determine corporate policy.”  (Cruz v. Homebase (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th
160, 167, quoting White v. Ultramar (1999) 21 Cal.4th 563, 573.)  “Corporations are legal entities which do not
have minds capable of recklessness, wickedness, or intent to injure or
deceive.”  (Cruz, 83 Cal.App.4th
at pg. 167.)  To establish intentional
conduct against a corporation, therefore, a plaintiff is required to identify a
specific individual of the corporation, establish the individual’s authority to
act on behalf of the corporation, and prove the intentional tortious conduct by
said individual.  (Tarmann v. State
Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
 No such allegations appear in the SAC.
Accordingly, Terrazzo’s motion to
strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages from the SAC is granted with
20 days leave to amend.
 
Conclusion
Terrazzo’s motion to strike Plaintiff’s
request for punitive damages is granted with 20 days leave to amend.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
 
Dated:  March _____, 2024
                                                                             





  