 Case Number:  23STCV15618    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 




MARIA MARQUEZ, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
1812 5TH STREET LLC, et
  al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


23STCV15618




Hearing Date:


January 7, 2025




Hearing Time:   10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
PETITION TO APPROVE MINOR’S COMPROMISE OF
  PENDING ACTION




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTIONS


 




            
Background
Plaintiffs Maria Marquez; Alejando Ulises Amaro, a minor
by and through his guardian ad litem, Maria
Marquez; and a number of other plaintiffs filed this action on July 5, 2023
against Defendants 1812 5th Street LLC, Taylor Equities 17, LLC, RI 1812
Apartments LLC, Linda V. Armor, and Ingenious Asset Group Inc. The Complaint
alleges causes of action for 
(1) breach of warranty of habitability, (2) breach of
covenant of quiet enjoyment, (3) negligence, (4) breach of contract, (5)
nuisance, and (6) unfair competition in violation of Business
and Professions Code section 17200, et seq. 
On December 15, 2023, Taylor Equities
17 LLC and RI 1812 Apartments LLC filed a Cross-Complaint for Equitable
Indemnity and Contribution against Roes 1 to 100. On March 21, 2024, Ingenious
Asset Group, Inc. filed a Cross-Complaint against Moes 1 through 25, alleging
six causes of action. 
A settlement has been reached in this case. Maria Marquez as Petitioner for
Claimant Alejando Ulises Amaro now petitions for the Court’s approval of
the settlement on behalf of the Claimant.  
            Discussion
An enforceable settlement of a minor’s claim can only be consummated
with court approval. (Prob. Code, § 3500.) “A petition for court approval of a compromise of, or a
covenant not to sue or enforce judgment, on a minor’s disputed claim; a
compromise or settlement of a pending action or proceeding to which a minor or
person with a disability is a party; or the disposition of the proceeds of a
judgment for a minor or person with a disability under Probate
Code sections 3500 and 3600-3613 or Code of Civil
Procedure section 372 must be verified by the petitioner and must contain a
full disclosure of all information that has any bearing upon the reasonableness
of the compromise, covenant, settlement, or disposition. Except as provided in rule 7.950.5, the petition must be submitted on a
completed Petition for Approval of
Compromise of Claim or Action or Disposition of Proceeds of Judgment for
Minor or Person With a Disability (form MC-350).”
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.950, emphasis in original.)  
Here, the petition is prepared on Form
MC-350 and is verified by Petitioner. However,
the Court notes that Item 10(b) of the petition provides, inter alia,
that “[t]he defendants and amounts offered by each are as follows
(specify):…LINDA V ARMOR, et al.” Petitioner’s use of “et al.” makes it unclear
if other defendants (in addition to Linda V. Armor) are also parties to the
settlement, and if so, which defendants. 

In addition, Item 4 of the proposed order (Form MC-351) provides that
“[t]he claim or action to be compromised or settled is asserted, or the
judgment is entered, against (name of settling or judgment defendant or
defendants (the ‘payer’)): LINDA V ARMOR, et al.” Again, it is unclear what “et
al.” refers to. The names of each of the defendant(s) should be specified. 
Similarly, Item 17(f) of the petition indicates that the attorney
“does expect to receive attorney’s fees or other compensation in addition to
that requested in this petition for services provided in connection with the
claim giving rise to this petition.” Item 17(f) provides, “(If you answered
‘does,’ identify the person who will pay the fees or other compensation, the
amounts to be paid, and the expected dates of payment).” However, the petition
lists “LINDA V ARMOR, et al.” It is unclear if the attorney’s fees or other
compensation is being provided by unspecified defendants in addition to Linda
V. Armor. 
Lastly, Item 11(b)(5) of the petition indicates that the settlement
payments are to be apportioned and distributed to certain other plaintiffs or
claimants. However, the parties listed in Item 11(b)(5) do not appear to be
plaintiffs in the instant action. Petitioner’s Attachment 11b(5) also appears
to list certain parties that are not plaintiffs in the instant action. 
            Conclusion
Based on the
foregoing, the
Court denies the petition without prejudice. 
Petitioner is to
give notice of this Order.  
 
DATED:  January 7, 2025                              ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court