 Case Number:  24SMCV05074    Hearing Date:   December 2, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
ACRL 100, LLC v. J.J. Pacific
Investment Co., Case no. 24SMCV05074
Hearing date December 2, 2024
Plaintiff’s
Motion for Preliminary Injunction
Plaintiff
ACRL 100 alleges a prescriptive easement over defendants’ parking lot, which
allowed access to plaintiff's own parking lot, and which plaintiff alleges defendants
blocked with bollards, chains and a fence. Plaintiff seeks a preliminary
injunction enjoining defendants from taking action to block or prevent usage of
the parking lot.
Defendants’ Request for Judicial
Notice
Defendants
request judicial notice of: (1) the complaint, para. 12; (2) plaintiff's
complaint ex parte application for TRO and OSC re: preliminary
injunction, pg. 5 lines 1-15 and 23-24; (3) 10/29/24 decl. Weintraub paras. 3
and 43; (4) plaintiff’s opposition to defendants’ ex parte seeking
clarification as to the briefing schedule pg. 5, lines 15-17; (5) plaintiff’s
motion for preliminary injunction pg. 5, lines 1-15 and 23-24; and (6) 11/12/24
decl. Weintraub paras. 24 and 46. All are part of the court’s records. Per Cal.
Evid. Code §452(d), GRANTED.
Plaintiff’s Evidentiary Objections
to Declarations
Plaintiff
files evidentiary objections to the declarations of Mark Savel and Robert Ahn. Decl.
Savel objections 1-7 OVERRULED. Decl. Ahn objections 1, 3-7 OVERRULED,
objection 2 SUSTAINED (hearsay).
Plaintiff’s Motion for Preliminary
Injunction
Pursuant
to Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§526 and 527 the court may issue an injunction if
sufficient grounds are shown. The purpose of a preliminary injunction is to
preserve the status quo until a final determination on the merits. See
Continental Baking Co. v. Katz (1968) 68 Cal.2d 512, 528. The court
evaluates: (1) the likelihood movant will prevail on the merits; and (2) whether
the interim harm movant is likely to sustain if the injunction were denied as
compared to the harm the opposing party is likely to suffer if the injunction
issues. See IT Corp. v. Cty. of Imperial (1983) 35 Cal.3d 63, 69–70. 
Plaintiff
argues it is likely to succeed on the merits, and the interim harm to plaintiff
is greater than to defendants. Plaintiff offers declarations of manager
Weintraub and former neighbor owner of Patrick’s Roadhouse restaurant Fischler.
Plaintiff’s predecessors in interest made use of defendants’ parking lot since
1973. Decl. Fischler paras. 5-6. Plaintiff has made use of the parking lot
since 2018 and removed bollards previously in place as of 2018. Decl. Weintraub
paras. 17-18. Plaintiff took steps to claim an easement, such as crossing the parking
lot with construction vehicles from 2018 through 2020 and arguing with
defendants regarding use of the lot. Decl. Weintraub paras. 23, 27-29. Based on
this evidence, it appears plaintiff has a likelihood of proving its claimed prescriptive
easement.
Plaintiff
argues balancing the interim harms also favors plaintiff. Defendants’ actions
to prevent plaintiff from using the lot resulted in plaintiff losing nearly 80%
of previously available parking space and has made it difficult for cars to
safely access plaintiff’s own parking lot. Decl. Weintraub paras. 38-45. Plaintiff
asserts defendants’ chain link fence obstructed pedestrian access to
plaintiff’s building. Decl. Weintraub para. 46. This evidence demonstrates the
risk of interim harm if a preliminary injunction does not issue.
Defendants
argue plaintiff’s use of its parking lot was permissive, so plaintiff cannot
succeed in its claim for a prescriptive easement and unclean hands precludes
the requested relief. Defendants provide declarations from architect Savel, tenant
Chaudhry, attorneys Lockard and Gonzales, and Robert Ahn. 
Defendants
argue plaintiff’s parking lot and commercial building adjacent to defendant's
parking lot are not code compliant, so unclean hands bars the requested relief.
See Decl. Savel and Decl. Gonzales, generally. Plaintiff argues whether
it is in compliance with various codes is irrelevant to whether an easement
exists over defendant’s parking lot. The court agrees; there is insufficient
evidence that plaintiff is not code-complaint, and whether plaintiff might be
required to take future action is wholly speculative and irrelevant to whether
a preliminary injunction should issue.
Defendants
argue no prescriptive easement exists because plaintiff’s use was permitted
through 2020, meaning the unpermitted use has not lasted 5 years. Decl. Ahn
paras. 6, 13; Decl. Chaudhry para. 10. Defendants argue communications between
defendants J.J. Pacific Investment Co. and Chaudhry demonstrate the permissive
nature of plaintiff’s use. Decl. Chaudhry paras. 8-10. However, internal communications
between defendants does not disprove plaintiff's intention to openly and
hostilely make use of defendants’ property. Defendants offer no evidence that plaintiff
was told or otherwise made aware that its use of the lot was anything other
than hostile. 
Defendants
argue if the injunction issues, they will be unable to control who accesses the
lot, but offer no evidence in support of this potential harm. Plaintiff notes
much of defendants’ argument regarding overuse of defendants’ parking lot arose
from patrons of neighboring business Patrick’s Roadhouse, which is now closed.
Decl. Fischler para. 2. Defendants allege valets use plaintiff’s parking lot
via defendants’ parking lot at night. Plaintiffs assert this use is de
minimis, less than $500 monthly, and serves primarily as a way to ensure
plaintiff’s patrons do not obstruct defendants’ parking lot. Supp. Decl.
Weintraub para. 3. Defendants’ concerns are speculative and do not outweigh the
current harms described by plaintiff.
A
preliminary injunction preserves the status quo pending determination on the
merits. See Continental Baking Co., supra. It is undisputed the previous
status quo was plaintiff having access to and over defendants’ parking lot.
Defendants disrupted this status quo by installing bollards, chains and fences.
Plaintiff established a reasonable likelihood of succeeding on the merits, and
weighing the interim harms favors plaintiff. Plaintiff’s motion for a
preliminary injunction is GRANTED.