 Case Number:  21STCV30664    Hearing Date:   June 14, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Compel Physical Examination of Plaintiff filed
by Defendant Vanis Mikaelian.
 
Tentative
 
The motion
is granted in part.
 
Background
On
August 19, 2021, Daniel Romero Garcia (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against
Vanis Mikaelian, Lyft Corporation, and Does 1 through 50 for negligence arising
out of an automobile accident; the complaint identifies the date of the
accident as August 22, 2021, which appears to be a typographical error (as it
is two days after the complaint was filed).
On
March 2, 2023, Lyft, Inc. (erroneously sued as Lyft Corporation) filed an
answer. On April 26, 2023, Defendant Vanis Mikaelian (“Defendant”) filed an
answer.
Plaintiff
has already been examined by defense neurologist Barry L. Ludwig, M.D., and by
defense neuropsychologist Dean Delis, Ph.D. 
(Nelms Decl., ¶¶ 8-9.)  Defendant also
requested an additional physical examination by orthopedic surgeon Steven C.
Dennis, M.D.  (Id., ¶¶ 6, 10 &
Exh. D.)  Plaintiff objected.  (Id., ¶ 11 & Exh. E.) 
On May
10, 2024, Defendant filed this motion, styled as a “motion to compel additional
physical examination.”  
No
opposition has been filed.
Legal Standard
 
“Any party may obtain discovery . . . by means of a
physical or mental examination of (1) a party to the action, (2) an agent of
any party, or (3) a natural person in the custody or under the legal control of
a party, in any action in which the mental or physical condition (including the
blood group) of that party or other person is in controversy in the action.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.020, subd. (a).)
 
In a personal injury action, the defendant may
demand one physical examination of plaintiff as of right, without advance leave
of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.220.)  
 
If a defendant seeks a further physical examination
of plaintiff, or a mental examination, the defendant must first file a motion
and “obtain leave of court.” (Id., § 2032.310, subd. (a).) Such a motion
must “specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person
or persons who will perform the examination.” (Id., subd. (b).) The
court may grant such a motion “only for good cause shown.” (Id., §
2032.320, subd. (a).) A showing of good cause generally requires “that the
party produce specific facts justifying discovery and that the inquiry be
relevant to the subject matter of the action or reasonably calculated to lead
to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Vinson v. Super. Ct. (1987)
43 Cal.3d 833, 840.)  The examination
will be limited to whatever condition is “in controversy” in the action.¿ (Id.,
§ 2032.020, subd. (a).) 
 
“An order granting a physical or mental examination
shall specify the person or persons who may perform the examination, as well as
the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests and procedures, conditions, scope,
and nature of the examination.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd.
(d).) “The court is to describe¿in detail¿who will conduct the
examination, where and when it will be conducted, the conditions, scope and
nature of the examination, and the diagnostic tests and procedures to be
employed.  The way to describe these ‘diagnostic tests and procedures’—fully¿and¿in
detail—is to list them by name.” (Carpenter v. Super. Ct.¿(2006)
141 Cal.App.4th 249, 260.)¿¿ 
¿¿ 
The moving party¿must support the motion with a meet
and confer declaration.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (b).) A
meet and confer declaration must state facts “showing a reasonable and good
faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the
motion.”¿ (Id., § 2016.040.)¿¿¿¿ 
 
Preliminary Matters
 
First, Defendant has satisfied the meet and confer
requirement of the statute.  (Nelms
Decl., ¶¶ 7, 12 & Exhs. C, F.)¿¿ 
 
Second, as this is a request for a second physical
examination of Plaintiff, the request is not subject to the notice, objection,
and motion to compel provisions of Code of Civil Procedure sections 2032.220
through 2032.260.  Rather, under section
2032.310, subdivision (a), Defendant is required to seek leave of the
court.  Defendant labels the motion
(incorrectly) as a “motion to compel,” rather than a motion for leave, but in
the notice of motion and motion (as well as in the supporting memorandum) Defendant
correctly invokes the statutory provisions of sections 2032.310 and
2032.320.  Accordingly, the Court
construes Defendant’s motion as a motion for leave.
 
Discussion
 
Defendant seeks leave of court to conduct an additional physical
examination of Plaintiff by Steven C. Dennis, M.D., an orthopedic surgeon.  The requested examination will include the
taking of Plaintiff’s medical history and “a visual inspection, review of
systems, range of motion testing, gait testing, coordination testing, mental
status and cranial nerve testing, motor testing, strength testing, sensory
examination, and palpation of the plaintiff’s allegedly injured body parts.”  (Motion, at 2:10-15.)  The examination will not be invasive, will
not involve painful, protracted, or intrusive procedures, and will not involve
x-rays.  (Id., at 2:7, 2:17-18.)
 
Defendant has shown that good exists for an orthopedic examination.  Although Plaintiff has already been examined
by a neurologist and a neuropsychiatrist, Plaintiff has stated in deposition
and written discovery that the injuries that he attributes to the accident
include back, neck, and shoulder pain, including continuing lower back pain.  (Nelms Decl., ¶¶ 4-5 & Exhs. A, B.)
 
Accordingly,
the Court grants the motion for leave to conduct an additional physical
examination of Plaintiff.  The requested
examination will be permitted, subject to three exceptions.
 
First, the
date of the examination must be reset to give Plaintiff adequate advance
notice.  Under the applicable provisions
of the Civil Discovery Act, Defendant had no right to take this examination on
notice; absent an agreement of the parties, a court order is required.  Ordering Plaintiff to appear for the
examination in four days is not reasonable.
 
Second, the
examiner’s taking of a medical history of Plaintiff is limited to the
orthopedic injuries that Plaintiff attributes to the accident and the parts of
Plaintiff’s body that Plaintiff contends were injured in the accident.
 
Third, Defendant
has not shown good cause for an orthopedic surgeon to conduct “mental status and cranial nerve testing,” particularly given that
Plaintiff here has already been subject to an examination by a neurologist and
neuropsychiatrist.
 
With these
limitations, the motion is granted.
Conclusion

The Court GRANTS Defendant’s
motion for leave to take an additional physical examination of Plaintiff Daniel
Romero Garcia.
The
Court ORDERS Plaintiff to appear at the medical offices of Dr. Steven C. Dennis, an orthopedic surgeon, on July __, 2024 at 9 a.m., at
1501 Westcliff Drive, Suite 325, Newport Beach, California 92660.
 
The examination
will involve the taking of Plaintiff’s medical history, limited to
the orthopedic injuries that Plaintiff attributes to the accident and the parts
of Plaintiff’s body that Plaintiff contends were injured in the accident.  The examination will also involve a visual inspection, review of systems, range of motion testing, gait
testing, coordination testing, motor testing, strength testing, sensory
examination, and palpation of the plaintiff’s allegedly injured body parts.”  The examination will not be invasive, will
not involve painful, protracted, or intrusive procedures, and will not involve
x-rays.  
Moving
Party is to give notice.