 Case Number:  23STCV01231    Hearing Date:   June 14, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Continue
Trial filed by Defendant City of Los Angeles.
Tentative
The motion is denied, without prejudice, on
procedural grounds.
Background
On January 19, 2023, Anthony Nonn
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against The City of Los Angeles (“City”),
County of Los Angeles (“County”), California Department of Transportation (“Caltrans”),
the State of California (“State”), and Does 1 through 50, asserting a cause of
action for Dangerous Condition of Public Property arising out of an automobile
accident that occurred on May 13, 2022, on Burbank Boulevard just west of the
405 Freeway in Los Angeles.  
Defendants County, Caltrans, and State have
been dismissed.
On May 18, 2023, City filed an answer and
cross-complaint against Roes 1 through 10.
On May 28, 2024, City filed this motion to
continue trial. Plaintiff filed an opposition on May 30.
The trial date, July 18, 2024, was assigned
when the complaint was filed.
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 128,
subdivision (a)(8), provides that the court has the power to amend and control
its process and orders so as to make them conform to law and justice. “The
power to determine when a continuance should be granted is within the
discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue, Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44
Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide latitude in the matter of
calendar control including the granting or denying of continuances.” (Park
Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)  
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil
cases, the dates assigned for trial are firm. 
All parties and their counsel must regard the date set for trial as
certain.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(a).)
“Although continuances of trials are
disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own
merits.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(c).)  “The court may grant a
continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance.”  (Ibid.)  Circumstances that may support a finding of
good cause include:  
“(1) The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances;  
(2) The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(3) The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(4) The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice;  
(5) The addition
of a new party if: (A) The new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had
a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard
to the new party's involvement in the case; 

(6) A party's
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; or  
(7) A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)  
“In ruling on a motion or application for
continuance, the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are
relevant to the determination.”  (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)  California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d) sets forth a non-exhaustive list of factors that
the court may consider:  
“(1) The
proximity of the trial date;  
(2) Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party;  
(3) The length
of the continuance requested;  
(4) The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 

(5) The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;

(6) If the case
is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and
whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7) The court's
calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
(8) Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; 

(9) Whether all
parties have stipulated to a continuance; 

(10) Whether the
interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and  
(11) Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).) 
Discussion
City requests a
trial continuance of approximately six months. City asserts, in rather general
terms, that it has been diligent but a significant amount of discovery remains
to be done.  (Ticas Decl., ¶ 3.)  City also contends that Plaintiff does not
oppose a continuance, on the condition that the dispositive motion deadline not
be extended, which is a condition that is not acceptable to City.  (Ibid.)   
Plaintiff opposes
the motion.
As a threshold
matter, Plaintiff argues that the motion was not filed and served in a timely
fashion.  Motions must be filed and
served at least 16 court days before the hearing, plus an additional two court days
when service is by electronic means. 
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1005, subd. (b) & 1010.6, subd.
(a)(3)(B).)  For a hearing date of June
14, motions must be filed and served by May 22, 2024 if by personal service, or
by May 20 if by electronic service.
City served the
motion electronically on May 23 and filed the motion on May 28.  The motion is therefore denied, without
prejudice, for failure to file and serve in a timely fashion.
Conclusion
The Court DENIES the motion of Defendant City of Los Angeles to continue trial,
without prejudice, on procedural grounds.
Moving Party is ORDERED to give notice.