 Case Number:  22STCV15850    Hearing Date:   June 14, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Compel the Deposition of Prisoner and Defendant
William Preston Karris filed by Defendant Universal Protection Service LP dba
Allied Universal Security Services.
 
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On May 12, 2022, Yunior Mardoquero
Duran (a minor, by and through his Guardian ad Litem, Ernesto Duran), Celeste Marielos
Duran, Conception Barrios, and Olga Adelina Ramos (collectively “Plaintiffs”)
filed the complaint in this action against Allied Universal Risk Advisory and
Consulting Services, In., William Preston Karris (“Karris”), Does 1 through 100,
and Roes A through Z.  Plaintiffs bring a
single cause of action for wrongful death arising out of an incident on August 19,
2021, in which, Plaintiffs allege, Defendant Karris killed Esvin Mardoquero
Duran (“Decedent”).  Plaintiffs are the
children, mother, and putative spouse of the Decedent.
 
On October 3, 2022, Plaintiffs amended
the complaint to name Universal Protection Service LP dba Allied Universal
Security Services (“Universal”) as Doe 1. 
 
On November 21, 2022, Universal filed
its answer.
 
On May 17, 2024, Universal filed this
motion to compel the deposition of a prisoner, Defendant Karris.  
 
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 1995 states:  
“If the witness be a prisoner, confined in a jail within this
state, an order for his examination in the jail upon deposition, or for his
temporary removal and production before a court or officer may be made as
follows:  1.  By the court itself in which the action or
special proceeding is pending, unless it be a small claims court.  2. By a justice of the Supreme Court, or a
judge of the superior court of the county where the action or proceeding is
pending, if pending before a small claims court, or before a judge or other
person out of court.”  
“Such an order can only be made on the motion of a party, upon
affidavit showing the nature of the action or proceeding, the testimony
expected from the witness, and its materiality.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1996.)  “If the witness be imprisoned in a jail in
the county where the action or proceeding is pending, his production may be
required.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1997.)  “In all other cases his examination, when
allowed, must be taken upon deposition.” 
(Id.)
Penal Code section 2623 states:  
“If in a civil action or special proceeding a witness be a
prisoner, confined in a state prison within this state, an order for the
prisoner’s examination in the prison by deposition may be made. 
1. By the court itself in which the action or special
proceeding is pending, unless it be a small claims court. 
2. By a judge of the superior court of the county where the
action or proceeding is pending, if pending before a small claims court or
before a judge or other person out of court. 
Such order can only be made on the motion of a party, upon
affidavit showing the nature of the action or proceeding, the testimony
expected from the witness, and its materiality. 
The deposition, when ordered, shall be taken in accordance with Section
2622.”
Discussion
Universal
requests an order permitting it to take the deposition of an incarcerated
person, Defendant Karris, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 1995 and
1996, and Penal Code sections 2622 and 2623.
 
The case
arises out of the death of the Decedent on August 19,
2021. Plaintiffs allege that Defendant Karris, while an employee of Universal,
shot and killed Decedent.  Defendant
Karris is now incarcerated at the North County Correctional Facility, 29340 The
Old Rd., Castaic, California, 91384. (McKenna Decl., ¶ 4.) Universal contends
the testimony of Karris is material to this action as it is necessary to know his
version of the events and the interaction with the Decedent before the
shooting. (Id., ¶ 5.)
 
Universal
has shown that there is good cause for the deposition and that the testimony of
Defendant Karris material to this matter. No opposition has been filed.
 
Therefore,
the Court GRANTS Universal’s motion.
 
Conclusion
 
The Court
GRANTS Universal’s motion to take the deposition of an incarcerated person,
Defendant William Preston Karris. 
 
Moving party is ORDERED to give notice.
 