  Case Number:  22AHCV01390    Hearing Date:   July 15, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]  ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANTS, B.L. PRICE CO., INC., AND GUILLERMO PERALTA  GUITERREZ’S MOTION COMPELLING PLAINTIFF SAY TANG’S FURTHER DEPOSITION AND GRANTING  IN PART ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS AT DEPOSITION AND DENYING AWARD OF MONETARY  SANCTIONS                            I.           INTRODUCTION             This  personal injury case arises from an automobile collision. Plaintiff Destiny  Ravelo (“Ravelo”) alleges that on March 1, 2022, while in her vehicle on the  I-101 freeway, she was involved in a collision caused by a vehicle and trailer  owned and operated by Defendants B.L. Price Co., Inc., and Defendant Guillermo  Peralta Gutierrez (together “Defendants”). On December 23, 2022, Plaintiff  filed a complaint asserting three causes of action: (1) negligence, (2)  negligence per se and (2) statutory liability against Defendants.  During the collision, the right rear of  Plaintiff Ravelo’s vehicle contacted Plaintiff Say Tang’s (“Plaintiff”) vehicle,  allegedly causing a traumatic brain injury (TBI), cervical spine injury, lumbar  spine injury, severe emotional distress and economic harm. On February 10, 2023,  the Court received notice of related case no. 23AHCV00167, Say Tang v. B.L.  Price Co. Inc., Guillermo Peralta Gutierrez, Destiny Maria Ravelo and Ivan Ravelo,  filed in the Los Angeles Superior Court on January 1, 2023.  Before the Court is a motion by  Defendants B.L. Price Co. Inc. and Guillermo Peralta Gutierrez to compel  Plaintiff’s further deposition, compel answers to certain questions to assess  damages, and the imposition of sanctions for related costs. On May 1, 2024, Defendant filed a  motion for the Court to issue the following orders: 1.      Order compelling Plaintiff’s further deposition; 2.      Order compelling Plaintiff to answer all questions related to her  childhood in Cambodia; 3.      Order compelling Plaintiff to answer all questions related to her  business, including information about her supply chain; and 4.      Order for Plaintiff and/or her counsel to pay $2,105.00 in sanctions for  the costs of the motion and Plaintiff’s second deposition. (Motion, ¶¶ 1-4.) On June 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed  an opposition and separate statement. As of July 12, 2024, no reply has been  filed. The hearing is set for July 15, 2024. Trial is scheduled for January 28,  2025. The Court is unaware of any further meet and confer  efforts that may have occurred after the filing of the instant motion.  Having reviewed the moving and opposition  papers, the Court makes the following rulings: The order compelling Plaintiff’s  further deposition is GRANTED; The order compelling Plaintiff to  answer questions related to her childhood in Cambodia is GRANTED, subject to  modification explained below; The order compelling Plaintiff to  answer questions related to her business, including information about her  supply chain, is DENIED; The order for Plaintiff and/or her  counsel awarding $2,105.00 in sanctions for the costs of the motion and  Plaintiff’s second deposition is DENIED.                           II.           ANALYSIS A.     Procedural Matters Code of  Civil Procedure, section 2025.480, subdivision (a) provides: “If a deponent  fails to answer any question or to produce any document, electronically stored  information, or tangible thing under the deponent’s control that is specified  in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery  may move the court for an order compelling that answer or production.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd.  (a).)  “This motion shall be made no  later than 60 days after the completion of the record of the deposition and  shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section  2016.040.”  (Id., § 2025.480,  subd. (b).)  The 60-day deadline is  mandatory.  (Weinstein v. Blumberg  (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 316, 321 (Weinstein).) Meet-and-Confer  Requirement  A motion  to compel the deposition of a party to the action must be accompanied by a meet  and confer declaration, or, when the deponent failed to attend the deposition,  a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire  about the nonappearance.  (Code Civ.  Proc., § 2025.450(b)(2).)   A discovery  motion should not be denied automatically based upon the reason that the moving  parties failed to meet and confer in good faith.  (Obregon v. Sup. Ct. (1998) 67  Cal.App.4th 424, 434.  But see Townsend  v. Sup. Ct. (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1431, 1439 [motion must be denied where  lack of meet and confer]. Separate  Statement  Any motion involving the content of a  discovery request or the responses to such a request shall be accompanied by a  separate statement.  This includes a motion to compel further responses to  demand for inspection of documents or tangible things.  CRC Rule  3.1020(a)(3).      The record of the deposition was  completed and certified on March 27, 2024. (Johnson Decl., ¶ 4; Exh. B.) Accordingly,  the 60-day period to compel further answers expired on May 26, 2024. Defendant’s  counsel declares parties discussed the relevance of the requested answers and  did not reach a resolution. (Johnson Decl., ¶ 7.) On May 1, 2024, Defendant  filed the subject motion concurrently with a separate statement.  Therefore, the Court finds that  Defendant has met all procedural requirements.  B.     Motion  to Compel Further Deposition  Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure, section 2025.610:  “Once any party has taken the deposition of any natural person, including that  of a party to the action, neither the party who gave, nor any other party who  has been served with a deposition notice pursuant to Section 2025.240 may take  a subsequent deposition of that deponent.”   (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.610, subd. (a).)  “Notwithstanding subdivision (a), for good  cause shown, the court may grant leave to take a subsequent deposition….”  (Id., § 2025.610, subd. (b).)  “This section does not preclude taking one  subsequent deposition of a natural person who has previously been examined  under either or both of the following circumstances: (1) The person was  examined as a result of that person’s designation to testify on behalf of an  organization under Section 2025.230.   …”  (Id., § 2025.610, subd.  (c)(1).)    Defendant moves for an order  compelling Plaintiff to appear for a further deposition and answer questions regarding:  (1) Plaintiff’s early life in Cambodia from 1962 to 1979, and possible traumatic  experiences that could have occurred during that time; (2) Plaintiff’s  business, her suppliers, and their location, including any possible exposure to  contaminants that could have neurological impacts. These subjects were  initially raised in Plaintiff’s March 14, 2024, deposition, however Plaintiff’s  counsel instructed Plaintiff not to answer questions on these topics and  objected to the questions as an invasion of Plaintiff’s privacy. (Johnson  Decl., ¶¶ 5-7.) Since Defendant has filed this motion to compel further  responses, Plaintiff has the burden to justify each of its objections. (Coy v. Superior Court (1962)  58 Cal.2d 210, 220 - 221.)   Plaintiff argues that further  inquiry into these topics is unwarranted because Plaintiff has not placed anything  at issue in this car accident litigation that justifies permitting disclosure  of information about her childhood and business transactions. (Opp’n., p. 2.)  Plaintiff also argues that this motion was brought due to Plaintiff’s alleged  failure to accept Defendant’s “good faith offer to ‘abandon the line of  questioning . . .in exchange of Plaintiff dropping her claim of a TBI but that  offer was not accepted’ during a meet and confer during the deposition” (Id;  Johnson Decl., ¶ 8.)                          Inquiry into Possible Traumatic  Childhood Experiences in Cambodia Defendants argue that Plaintiff is claiming that the accident  caused neurological injuries and has therefore placed into dispute all issues  relating to “alternative causes for her alleged cognitive problems and mood  disorders.”  The Court notes that Plaintiff alleges in the complaint that “as a further  direct and proximate result of the actions of Defendants … Plaintiff has  suffered emotional damages which are believed to be permanent”. (Compl., p. 5.)   During this litigation, Defendant served  Form Interrogatories on Plaintiff which asked about her damages. Specifically, Form Interrogatory No.  9.1, states: Are there any other damages that you  attribute to the INCIDENT? If so, for each item of damage state: (a)   the nature; (b)   the date it occurred; (c)   the amount; and (d)   the name ADDRESS, and telephone number of each  PERSON to whom an obligation was incurred. Plaintiff’s Response to Form  Interrogatory No. 9.1, states: “Yes. (a)-(d) Plaintiff seeks all damages to  which she is entitled, both economic and non-economic. Plaintiff suffered, and  continues to suffer physical pain, mental suffering, loss of enjoyment of life, physical impairment, inconvenience, grief,  anxiety, humiliation, emotional distress (emphasis added), and other damages to be  proven at trial. As no fixed standard exists for deciding the amount of these  non-economic damages, the amount of said damages is a matter for the jury to  decide. Discovery and  investigation are ongoing. Plaintiff reserves the right to supplement and/or amend this response.” (Motion, Exh. A; pp. 19-20.) A general acquaintance with  history informs us that Cambodians suffered greatly under the Khmer Rouge  regime in the 1970s.  Undoubtedly, many  individuals who grew up in Cambodia during that time experienced significant  childhood trauma, which can affect individuals throughout their lives.  If Plaintiff had traumatic childhood  experiences, it is possible that symptoms like mental suffering, grief,  anxiety, emotional distress, loss of enjoyment of life and permanent emotional  damage could have preexisted the accident in this case.  Therefore, the Court will permit limited  inquiry into past traumatic experiences in Cambodia, including: 1.   Whether  Plaintiff witnessed acts of violence as a child in Cambodia;   2.   Whether  Plaintiff was a victim of acts of violence as a child in Cambodia; and 3.   Whether Plaintiff had close friends or family who were victims of  violence during her childhood  in Cambodia. Notwithstanding the above, the  Court recognizes that Plaintiff has legitimate privacy interests that must be balanced  against Defendants’ need for information.   Therefore, the Court will not permit any inquiry or disclosure of past  traumatic experiences that may have been of a sexual nature.  The Court is not suggesting that Plaintiff  experienced such events but is only guarding against that possibility given the  prevalence of sexual violence in many societies throughout history.               Inquiry into Plaintiff’s Business Dealings   Defendant moves  the Court for an order compelling Plaintiff to answer questions about her  business dealings.  Plaintiff has  operated a business, Nancy Gem Inc., for 24 years. (Motion, Exh. A; Response to  FROG No., 2.6.). When asked about where she sources the jewelry for Nancy Gem  Inc., Plaintiff’s counsel objected. Defendant’s counsel stated that Plaintiff  is “making a claim for TBI and loss of cognitive ability. Handling dangerous  metals can contribute to cognitive problems. It is relevant.” (Motion, Exh. B,  p. 47.) Plaintiff argues  that Defendant improperly questioned Plaintiff about her business operations  because those matters are irrelevant and private. Plaintiff argues that  Defendant offers no compelling purpose for inquiring about Plaintiff’s business  affairs. The Court agrees.  Defendants’ counsel’s  questions about purchasing jewelry from China were based on a theory that such  jewelry may have contained contaminants which may have contributed to Plaintiff’s  alleged cognitive impairments.  The Court  finds that the stated basis for this line of inquiry is too speculative to  allow Defendants to question Plaintiff about her business dealings.  Therefore, the Court finds that Plaintiff  cannot be compelled to produce answers to the inquiries about her business  transactions or practices.   C.    Sanctions  Code of Civil  Procedure section 2023.030 is a general statute authorizing the Court to impose  discovery sanctions for “misuse of the discovery process,” which includes  (without limitation) a variety of conduct such as: making, without substantial  justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an evasive  response to discovery; and unsuccessfully and without substantial justification  making or opposing a motion to compel or limit discovery.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010.)  If sanctions are  sought, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.040 requires that the notice  specify the identity of the person against whom sanctions are sought and the  type of sanction requested, that the motion be supported in the points and  authorities, and the facts be set forth in a declaration supporting the amount  of any monetary sanction.    Defendant requests  the court to impose a monetary sanction of $2,105.00 on Plaintiff and or/ her  counsel for the motion costs and deposition part two. Defendant’s Counsel,  Jerry L. Johnson, a California-licensed attorney, and senior associate at  Tharpe & Howell, LLP, states that $1,540.00 was incurred in preparing this  motion, based on: (1) his hourly rate of $185.00 being applied to 8 hours to  prepare this motion and separate statement; and (2) the $60.00 filing fee. (Johnson  Decl., ¶ 10.)  Attorney Johnson estimates incurring $555 in  additional fees through an estimated 3 hours spent preparing the reply and oral  argument, and hearing attendance. (Id.)  Defendant’s motion  requests sanctions in the amount of $2,105.00.   However, according to this Court’s admittedly questionable math skills,  it appears that the total sought is actually $2,095, calculated as follows:     Mot. to Compel Preparation    5 hours at $185.00    $925.00     Separate Statement Preparation   3 hours at $185.00   $555.00     Estimated Reply Fees   3 hours at $185.00    $555.00     Motion Reservation Fee        $60.00          TOTAL    $2,095.00       The Court declines to award  sanctions.  Plaintiff’s counsel had  substantial justification for objecting to these lines of inquiry during the  deposition.  Based upon the deposition  transcript, it appears that these objections were made in good faith to protect  Plaintiff’s privacy.  Further, the Court  finds that Plaintiff opposed this motion in good faith. IV.       CONCLUSION AND ORDER The Court orders Plaintiff to appear for deposition within thirty days and answer questions as set forth above. Moving party to give notice of this ruling.             Dated:  July 15, 2024                                      JARED D. MOSESJUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT 