 Case Number:  22STCV38726    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2023    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



NOVA SKILLED HOME HEALTH, LLC, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
NOVA SKILLED HOME HEALTH, INC., et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV38726
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER SUSTAINING DEMURRER; GRANTING
  IN PART MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
September 19, 2023



 
On
December 13, 2022, Nova Skilled Home Health LLC (“Nova-Buyer”) filed this action
against Nova Skilled Home Health Inc. (“Nova-Seller”), Julita P. Fraley aka Julie
Fraley, and Carol Vega aka Carol Vega Aguilar.
On
February 3, 2023, Nova-Seller, Julita P. Fraley, Carol Vega, and Nelson Rolando
Aguilar (collectively, “Cross-Complainants”) filed a cross-complaint against Nova-Buyer,
Jonathan Sassover, Michael Davidov, and Pine Street Healthcare Holdings LLC (“Pine
Street”) (collectively, “Cross-Defendants”).
On
March 2, 2023, Cross-Defendants filed a demurrer and motion to strike.
DEMURRER
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.)  When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context, accepting
the alleged facts as true.
A.        The Alter Ego Allegations Lack Supporting
Facts.
Cross-Defendants
argue that the alter ego allegations are boilerplate and insufficient.  (Demurrer at p. 12.)  “In California, two conditions must be met before
the alter ego doctrine will be invoked.  First,
there must be such a unity of interest and ownership between the corporation and
its equitable owner that the separate personalities of the corporation and the shareholder
do not in reality exist.  Second, there must
be an inequitable result if the acts in question are treated as those of the corporation
alone.”  (Sonora Diamond Corp. v. Superior
Court (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 523, 538.)
Cross-Complainants
allege that “Cross-Defendants, and each of them, were the agents, employees, managing
agents, supervisors, conspirators, parent corporation, joint employers, alter ego,
and/or joint ventures of the other Cross-Defendants, and each of them, and in doing
the things alleged herein, were acting at least in part within the course and scope
of said agency, employment, conspiracy, joint employment, alter ego status, and/or
joint venture and with the permission and consent of each of the other Cross-Defendants.”  (Cross-Complaint ¶ 10.)
Although
Cross-Complainants need not allege specific facts to support an alter ego theory
when the Cross-Defendants may be assumed to possess superior facts, they still must
allege some facts, not just conclusions, demonstrating unity of interest.  (See Rutherford Holdings, LLC v. Plaza Del
Rey (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 221, 236; First Western Bank & Trust Co. v.
Bookasta (1968) 267 Cal.App.2d 910, 915-916.)
The
demurrer is sustained.
B.        Cross-Complainants Do Not Properly
Allege Contract Claims Against Non-Parties to the Contract (First, Third Causes
of Action).
The
first cause of action alleges breach of written contract, and the third cause of
action alleges breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
“The
covenant of good faith and fair dealing, implied by law in every contract, exists
merely to prevent one contracting party from unfairly frustrating the other party’s
right to receive the benefits of the agreement actually made.  The covenant thus cannot ‘“‘be endowed with an
existence independent of its contractual underpinnings.’”’  [Citation.] 
It cannot impose substantive duties or limits on the contracting parties
beyond those incorporated in the specific terms of their agreement.”  (Guz v. Bechtel National, Inc. (2000) 24
Cal.4th 317, 349-350.)
Cross-Complainant
Nova-Seller and Cross-Defendant Nova-Buyer executed the Asset Purchase Agreement.  (Cross-Complaint ¶¶ 19, 29.)  Sassover, Davidov, and Pine Street are not alleged
to be parties to the contract, and the alter ego allegations are insufficient to
make them liable on behalf of Nova-Buyer. 
Accordingly, the contract-based claims are not properly brought against them.
The
demurrer to the first and third causes of action are sustained as to Sassover, Davidov,
and Pine Street.
C.        Cross-Complainants Do Not Allege Fraud
With Specificity (Second, Fourth Causes of Action).
The
second cause of action alleges intentional misrepresentation, and the fourth cause
of action alleges negligent misrepresentation.
“The
essential elements of a count for intentional misrepresentation are (1) a misrepresentation,
(2) knowledge of falsity, (3) intent to induce reliance, (4) actual and justifiable
reliance, and (5) resulting damage.  [Citations.]  The essential elements of a count for negligent
misrepresentation are the same except that it does not require knowledge of falsity
but instead requires a misrepresentation of fact by a person who has no reasonable
grounds for believing it to be true.  [Citations.]”  (Chapman v. Skype Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th
217, 230-231.)
“Causes
of action for intentional and negligent misrepresentation sound in fraud and, therefore,
each element must be pleaded with specificity.” 
(Daniels v. Select Portfolio Servicing, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th
1150, 1166.)  “‘This particularity requirement
necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by
what means the representations were tendered.’ 
[Citation.]  A plaintiff’s burden in
asserting a fraud claim against a corporate employer is even greater.  In such a case, the plaintiff must ‘allege the
names of the persons who made the allegedly fraudulent representations, their authority
to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written.’  [Citation.]” 
(Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)
Cross-Complainants
allege that between November 2020 and July 2021, “[d]uring the months of due diligence
and negotiation leading up to the execution of the [Asset Purchase Agreement], Sassover
and Davidov repeatedly made certain representations to Carol and Julie.”  (Cross-Complaint ¶ 36; see Cross-Complaint ¶¶
20, 49.)  These representations included “(a)
that Nova-Buyer would pay the Holdback Amount to Nova-Seller, (b) that Nova-Buyer
would pay the accounts receivables Nova-Seller earned prior to closing, and (c)
that Nova-Buyer would continue to operate the Business as a going concern to facilitate
its growth.”  (Cross-Complaint ¶¶ 20, 37,
49.)  This does not allege the date or manner
of misrepresentation with specificity.  It
also does not allege with specificity any misrepresentation by Nova-Buyer or Pine
Street.
The
demurrer to the second and fourth causes of action is sustained.
D.        Conclusion
The
demurrer is SUSTAINED with 30 days’ leave to amend.
MOTION TO STRIKE
The
court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any
part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of California,
a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 436, subds. (a)-(b).)
A.        The Request to Strike the Prayer For Punitive
Damages Is Granted.
Cross-Defendants
move to strike Cross-Complainants’ allegations about and prayer for punitive damages.  (Motion at pp. 5-7.)  A plaintiff can recover punitive damages in tort
cases where “the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.”  (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).)  “The mere allegation an intentional tort was committed
is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages.  [Citation.] 
Not only must there be circumstances of oppression, fraud or malice, but
facts must be alleged in the pleading to support such a claim. [Citation.]”  (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d
159, 166, fn. omitted.)
The
allegation in the second cause of action that “Cross-Defendants committed the acts
alleged above with oppression, fraud and malice, and with the wrongful intention
of injuring Cross-Complainants, and in conscious disregard of Cross-Complainants’
rights.  Cross-Defendants acted in a despicable,
deliberate, cold, callous and intentional manner” (Cross-Complaint ¶ 42) is conclusory.  Moreover, the Court concurrently sustains the
demurrer to this fraud cause of action, and there are no other specific facts showing
oppression or malice.
The
motion to strike is granted on this ground.[1]
B.        There Is No Basis For Striking the
Prayer for Relief.
Cross-Defendants
also move to strike the entire prayer for relief because it does not identify which
damages are sought as to each cause of action. 
(Motion at pp. 7-8.)  Each cause of
action includes an allegation about the minimum amount of damages that Cross-Complainants
suffered, and only the second cause of action requests punitive damages.  (Cross-Complaint ¶¶ 34, 41-42, 47, 51.)  There is nothing improper about these allegations
or the prayer for relief.
The
motion to strike is denied on this ground.
C.        Conclusion
The
motion to strike is GRANTED IN PART and DENIED IN PART as set forth above, with
30 days’ leave to amend.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 19th day of September 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 






