 Case Number:  22STCV21658    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2023    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



COMMERCIAL WASTE SERVICES, INC., 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
IPL INC.,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV21658
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER OVERRULING DEMURRER TO
  COMPLAINT
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
September 19, 2023



 
On July 5, 2022, Plaintiff Commercial Waste Services
Inc. (“CWS”) filed this action against Defendant IPL Inc. (“IPL”) for
breach of contract and breach of implied warranty.
On June 15, 2023, IPL filed a
demurrer.  IPL argues that this action is
barred by res judicata and the parties’ settlement agreement.
As an initial matter, CWS argues that
IPL’s current corporate status with the California Secretary of State is
“Forfeited – SOS,” so it cannot defend itself in this action.  (Opposition at pp. 2-3.)  In reply, IPL contends that it merged with
another entity, which assigned its liabilities and obligations to IPL North
America Inc. (the assignee and successor in interest to IPL).  (Reply at p. 3.)  The Court will not make any findings about
this issue, which requires reliance on evidence outside the scope of demurrer.  If CWS still believes that IPL is improperly
defending this action while maintaining a forfeited/suspended status, it may
bring an appropriate motion.  CWS’s request for judicial notice and IPL’s
supplemental request for judicial notice are therefore denied as irrelevant.
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.)  When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as true.  (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015)
236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.)  “Because a demurrer
challenges defects on the face of the complaint, it can only refer to matters outside
the pleading that are subject to judicial notice.”  (Arce ex rel. Arce v. Kaiser Found. Health
Plan, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 471, 556.)
A
court may sustain a general demurrer if all facts necessary to show that an action
is barred by res judicata are within the complaint or subject to judicial notice.  (Frommhagen v. Board of Supervisors (1987)
197 Cal.App.3d 1292, 1299.)  Res judicata
precludes the re-litigation of a cause of action that previously was adjudicated
in another proceeding between the same parties, or parties in privity with them.  (Federation of Hillside & Canyon Assns.
v. City of Los Angeles (2004) 126 Cal.App.4th 1180, 1202 (Federation of Hillside
& Canyon Assns.).)  “Res judicata
applies if (1) the decision in the prior proceeding is final and on the merits;
(2) the present proceeding is on the same cause of action as the prior proceeding;
and (3) the parties in the present proceeding or parties in privity with them were
parties to the prior proceeding.”  (Ibid.)
IPL
requests that the Court take judicial notice of the complaint and dismissal with
prejudice filed by IPL in Case No. 2:20-CV-03106-JAK-JEM in the United States
District Court for the Central District of California (“Federal Action”).  (RJN, Exs. 1, 3.)  This request is granted.
In
the Federal Action, IPL sued CWS based on CWS’s failure to pay all invoices pursuant
to a September 2018 contract for the sale of recycling and trash bins.  In this action, CWS is suing IPL because the
recycling and trash bins sold by IPL were defective, and CWS seeks general and
consequential damages because it had to resell the bins at a discount.  (See Complaint ¶¶ 20, 25.)  IPL argues that this action “boils down to a
breach of contract for the sale of carts,” and the Federal Action “was also
based on the breach of the sale contract for the same carts.”  (Demurrer at p. 9.)  These are not the same causes of action or
same breaches, and IPL’s dismissal of its own claims for unpaid invoices is not
a final decision on the merits of CWS’s claims here.  There is no indication, from judicially
noticeable matters, that CWS’s claims for breach of contract were presented in
the Federal Action.  Accordingly, on
demurrer, res judicata does not bar this action.
IPL
also requests that the Court take judicial notice of the Transfer and
Settlement Agreement entered into by CWS, IPL, and Universal Waste Systems,
Inc. on June 8, 2020.  (RJN, Ex. 2.)  The Court may take judicial notice of a
settlement agreement when the complaint refers to the agreement.  (See Align Technology, Inc. v. Tran
(2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 949, 956, fn. 6.) 
Here, however, the Complaint does not refer to or incorporate a
settlement agreement, and thus Exhibit 2 is not judicially noticeable.
Even
if the Court could take judicial notice of the settlement agreement, IPL is
improperly relying on the contents of the document and its interpretation.  (See Demurrer at pp. 6-8.)  “Although the existence of a document
may be judicially noticeable, the truth of statements contained in the document
and its proper interpretation are not subject to judicial notice if those
matters are reasonably disputable. . . . When judicial notice is taken of a
document, however, the truthfulness and proper interpretation of the document
are disputable.”  (Fremont Indemnity
Co. v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 113.)
In
sum, IPL is seeking to adjudicate on demurrer issues that would more properly
be addressed on a summary judgment motion or at trial.
Accordingly,
the demurrer is OVERRULED.  IPL is
ordered to file an answer within 10 days. 
(California Rules of Court, rule 3.1320(j)(1).)
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 19th day of September 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 