 Case Number:  24SMCV03199    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  205 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205   EVAN KAGAN and SAFAA IDYOUSS,    Plaintiffs, v.  NEWREZ LLC f/k/a NEW PENN FINANCIAL LLC d/b/a SHELLPOINT MORTGAGE SERVICING, et al.,   Defendants.    Case No.:  24SMCV03199     Hearing Date:  October 21, 2024     [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:   DEFENDANTS NEWREZ LLC AND U.S.    BANK TRUST NATIONAL    ASSOCIATION’S DEMURRER TO    COMPLAINT     BACKGROUND Plaintiffs Evan Kagan and Safaa Idyouss own the property located at 2693 Old Topanga Canyon Road, Topanga California 90290 (the “Property”).  On or about November 6, 2019, Plaintiffs took out a business loan from Athas Capital Group, Inc. (“Athas”) in the amount of $1,806,000.00 (the “Loan”).  (Compl. ¶11; Ex. A.)   A Deed of Trust (“DOT”) on the Property was recorded, with Athas as beneficiary.  (Id.) In an “Occupancy Rider” to the Deed of Trust, Plaintiffs specifically agreed that the Property “is not [their] principal residence and [they] ha[ve] no intention of ever making the Property [their] principal residence.”  (Id.) Athas assigned all beneficial interest under the DOT to Wilmington Savings Fund Society, FSB (“Wilmington”).  (Compl. ¶12.)  Wilmington then assigned all beneficial interests under the DOT to Defendant U.S. Bank Trust National Association (“U.S. Bank”).  (Id. ¶13.)  Defendant Newrez LLC f/k/a New Penn Financial LLC d/b/a Shellpoint Mortgage Servicing (“Shellpoint”) is the mortgage servicer on the loan.   Plaintiff defaulted on their monthly loan payments.  On November 28, 2022, Defendant Quality Loan Service corporation (“Quality”), a debt collection agency, on behalf of US Bank and Shellpoint, caused a Notice of Default (“NOD”) to be recorded against the Property.  (Id. ¶14.)     Plaintiffs allege they submitted a loss mitigation application to Shellpoint in January 2023 but did not receive a response. (Id. ¶¶ 18-19.)  On March 9, 2023, a Notice of Trustee’s Sale was recorded. (Id. ¶ 20; Ex. E.)  Plaintiffs allege they submitted additional loss mitigation applications to Shellpoint in February and March 2024 but, again, did not receive a written determination.  (Id. ¶¶ 22- 24.) A second Notice of Trustee's Sale was recorded on May 9, 2024. (Id. ¶ 26; Ex. F.)  On or around June 4, 2024, Plaintiffs submitted a “Commercial Borrower Assistance Form” (the “Form”) to Shellpoint. (Id. ¶ 27, Ex. G.)  The Form specifically advised Plaintiffs that “Because your loan is a business purpose/commercial loan, the owner of your loan has no legal obligation to provide loss mitigation assistance.”  (Id., Ex. G.)  In the Form, Plaintiffs acknowledged that the property is “Occupied by Non-Borrower/Tenant.” (Id.) Plaintiffs also stated that their primary residence address was 1549 SE 12 Court, Ft. Lauderdale, FL 33316, and that they had lived there for 6 years. (Id.)  On page 5 of the Form, Plaintiffs checked the box for “No” in response to the question “Do you intend to occupy the property as your primary residence.” (Id.)  Finally, Plaintiffs attest that the information they provided in the Form was “truthful” and signed the Form. (Id.)  On June 5, 2024, Shellpoint advised Plaintiffs that their request for assistance was denied. (Id. ¶ 28.) Plaintiffs now claim that they are borrowers, as defined by Section 2920.5 of the Homeowners Bill of Rights (“HBOR”) and that the Property was “owner occupied” under Section 2924.15. (Compl., ¶ 1.)  As such, they claim that Defendants failed to comply with various provisions of the HBOR, including: (1) Section 2923.5 – concerning a servicer’s obligations to explore options to avoid foreclosure with a borrower before instituting foreclosure proceedings; (2) Section 2923.6 – prohibiting dual tracking if a borrower has submitted a complete modification application; and (3) Section 2924.17 – requiring any declaration under Section 2923.5 to be accurate and supported by competent evidence. The operative complaint alleges four claims for (1) violation of Civ. Code § 2923.5; (2) violation of Civ. Code § 2923.6; (3) violation of Civ. Code § 2924.17(b); and (4) violation of Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200.  All are premised on some violation of the HBOR.   This hearing is on Defendants Shellpoint and U.S. Bank’s (collectively “Moving Defendants’”) demurrer.  Moving Defendants argue that (1) the first, second and third claims for violations of the HBOR fail because the HBOR does not apply to Plaintiffs’ commercial loan, and (2) as there is no violation of the HBOR, Plaintiffs cannot make out a claim that Defendants engaged in unlawful conduct in violation of Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200. MEET AND CONFER Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41 requires that before the filing of a demurrer the moving party “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone” with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a).)  The parties are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a)(2).)  Thereafter, the moving party shall file and serve a declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a)(3).)  Moving Defendants submit the Declaration of Neeru Jindal which shows the parties met and conferred by telephone on July 9, 2024, more than five days before Moving Defendants filed their demurrer (on September 3, 2024).  This satisfies the meet and confer requirements of § 430.41.  LEGAL STANDARD “[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 (in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents).)  For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)   Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 (court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”); Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 (“A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment.”).)  The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  DISCUSSION HBOR Claims Moving Defendants argue that Plaintiffs’ first, second and third causes of action for violations of the HBOR fail because the HBOR does not apply to Plaintiffs’ commercial loan.  The Court agrees.    Pursuant to § 2924.15, the protections of the HBOR only apply to an “owner-occupied” residential real property.  (Civ. Code § 2924.15(a)(1).)  The term “owner-occupied” means the property is the “principal residence of the borrower and is security for a loan made for personal, family, or household purposes.”  (Id.)  In their Complaint, Plaintiffs allege they are borrowers, as defined by Section 2920.5 of the HBOR and that the Property is “owner occupied” under Section 2924.15.  (Compl. ¶ 1.)  However, Plaintiffs specifically agreed in the Deed of Trust that they would not be occupying the Property as their primary residence and that they never intended to occupy it as a principal residence.  (Ex. A to Compl.)  In addition, Plaintiffs admitted as recently as June 2024 in a loss mitigation application that their primary residence is in Florida, and that they have tenants that occupy the Property.  (Ex. G to Compl.)  Plaintiffs checked the box on the Form indicating that the property is “Occupied by Non-Borrower/Tenant.” (Id.)  They responded “No” to the question “Do you intend to occupy the property as your primary residence.” (Id.)   Thus, it is clear from the exhibits to Plaintiffs’ own complaint that the Property is not owner-occupied and is used as a rental.   Moreover, for a borrower to qualify for HBOR protections, the subject property must be security for a loan that is made for personal, family, or household purposes. (Civ. Code § 2924.15(a)(1)(B).)  As set forth in the loan documents, Plaintiffs’ loan was a commercial loan, and it was not made for personal, family or household purposes. (Ex. A to Compl.) Accordingly, for this additional reason, the HBOR does not apply.   The Opposition does not discuss the admissions in Plaintiffs’ own exhibits that the Property is not owner-occupied.  Instead, Plaintiffs cite to cases which do not support their position.  In Corral v. Select Portfolio Servicing Inc. (N.D. Cal. Aug. 7, 2014) 2014 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 109524, the court dismissed the plaintiff’s HBOR claim because the plaintiff failed to allege the subject property was owner-occupied.  Accordingly, Corral actually supports Moving Defendants’ position.  In Greene v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (N.D. Cal. Jan. 28, 2016) 2016 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 12703, there was conflicting evidence as to whether the subject property was the plaintiff’s principal evidence.  The plaintiff proffered evidence including a telephone bill, a tax payment voucher, a parking ticket, and a lease agreement showing that she only rented the upstairs portion of the subject property, in addition to her own statements and affidavits, in support of her claim that the subject property remained her principal residence.¿ Some of this evidence was submitted to the defendant as proof of occupancy in support of the plaintiff's pending loan modification application.  Unlike in Greene, here, the exhibits to Plaintiffs’ own complaint conclusively establish the Property is not owner occupied.   Accordingly, the Court sustains the demurrer to Plaintiffs’ first, second and third causes of action to the Complaint. UCL Claim Moving Defendants argue that Plaintiffs lack standing to assert a UCL claim because they suffered no injury from Moving Defendants’ actions as any injury resulted from Plaintiffs’ default on the loans.  Moving Defendants also argue that Plaintiffs have not alleged any fraudulent, unfair or unlawful conduct.  The Court agrees. In¿Kwikset Corp. v. Superior Court (2011) 51 Cal.4th 310, the California Supreme Court considered the private standing requirements of¿the UCL, and set forth “a simple¿test”¿ to determine whether a plaintiff has standing to bring a private UCL action. (Id. at 322.)¿ To prove standing, a party must (1) establish a loss or deprivation of money or property sufficient to qualify as injury in fact, i.e.,¿economic injury, and (2) show that the economic injury was the result of, i.e.,¿caused by, the unfair business practice or false advertising that is the gravamen of the claim. (Id.)¿  To aid lower courts with determining whether a plaintiff has properly alleged an economic injury, the¿California Supreme Court listed four injuries that would qualify: (1) the plaintiff surrendering more or acquiring less in a transaction than the plaintiff otherwise would have; (2) the plaintiff suffering the diminishment of a present or future property interest; (3) the plaintiff being deprived of money or property to which the plaintiff has a cognizable claim; or (4) the plaintiff being required to enter into a transaction, costing money or property, that would otherwise have been unnecessary. (Id. at 323.)  These four injuries are not “an exhaustive list” and “the quantum of lost money or property necessary to show standing is only so much¿as would suffice to establish injury in fact … .” (Id. at 323–324.) Additionally, the¿Kwikset court held¿ a plaintiff can satisfy the¿causation¿prong of the standing requirements by showing a “causal connection” between the economic injury and the alleged unfair conduct. (Id. at 326.)  A plaintiff fails to satisfy the causation prong of the statute if he or she would have suffered “the same harm whether or not a defendant complied with the law.” (Daro v. Superior Court¿(2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 1079, 1099.) In the present case, Plaintiffs assert the economic injury they have suffered is the foreclosure of their home and thousands of dollars in attorney’s fees, late fees, and additional costs to Plaintiffs’ arrears and default amount.  (Compl. ¶¶ 92, 93.)  In light of the minimal pleading requirements with regard to the economic injury prong, the Court concludes Plaintiffs’ UCL claim satisfies the economic injury prong. However, Plaintiffs’ UCL claim must also satisfy the causation prong, which required them to plead a causal link between their economic injury and the unfair, unlawful or fraudulent acts allegedly committed by Moving Defendants.  Importantly, there is no dispute Plaintiffs defaulted on their loan.  It is also indisputable that Plaintiffs’ default triggered the other events leading to the foreclosure of their home.  Moreover, Plaintiffs’ default occurred¿prior to¿the unlawful, unfair or fraudulent acts they allege as the basis of¿their UCL action.  Thus, even if we assume Plaintiffs’ UCL claim alleges facts indicating Moving Defendants’ actions meet at least one of the UCL’s three prongs (unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent), Plaintiffs cannot show any of the alleged violations has a causal link to their economic injury.  (See Jenkins v. JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 216 Cal.App. 4th 497, 522-523, disapproved on other grounds by Yvanova v. New Century Mortg. Corp. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 919, 929 (borrower who defaults on a loan before the defendant’s alleged wrongful acts does not have standing to sue under Section 17200 because the default caused the foreclosure proceedings, credit damage, late fees, etc., not the defendant’s conduct).)   We turn now to Defendants’ argument that even if Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged standing, they cannot allege Defendants engaged in unfair, unlawful or fraudulent practices.  The UCL does not proscribe specific activities, but broadly prohibits “any unlawful,¿unfair¿or fraudulent business act or practice and¿unfair,¿deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising.” (Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200.)  “Because …¿section 17200¿is written in the disjunctive, it establishes three varieties of unfair competition—acts or practices which are unlawful, or unfair, or fraudulent. In other words, a practice is prohibited as ‘unfair’ or ‘deceptive’ even if not ‘unlawful’ and vice versa.” (Cel-Tech Communications, Inc. v. Los Angeles Cellular Telephone Co.¿(1999) 20 Cal.4th 163, 180.) By proscribing ‘any unlawful’ business practice, section 17200¿“borrows” violations of other laws and treats them as unlawful practices that the unfair competition law makes independently actionable.  (Id.)  Here, Plaintiffs base their claim that Defendants engaged in unlawful business practices on Defendants’ purported violations of the HBOR.  (Compl. ¶¶ 84-88.)  As the Court has concluded Plaintiffs are not entitled to the protections of the HBOR, Plaintiffs cannot satisfy this prong of the UCL.  As to the “unfairness” prong, California courts typically apply it in the following circumstances.  First, “[a]n act or practice is unfair if the consumer injury is substantial, is not outweighed by any countervailing benefits to consumers or to competition, and is not an injury the consumers themselves could reasonably have avoided.” (Daugherty v. Am. Honda Motor Co., Inc. (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 824, 839.)  Second, “unfair” business practice occurs when that practice offends an established public policy or when the practice is immoral, unethical, oppressive, unscrupulous or substantially injurious to consumers.” ¿(Smith v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (2001) 93 Cal. App. 4th 700, 719.)  Third, an unfair business practice means “the public policy which is a predicate to the action must be ‘tethered’ to specific constitutional, statutory or regulatory provisions.” ¿(Scripps Clinic v. Superior Court (2003) 108 Cal. App. 4th 917, 940.)  A fourth test applies to competitors asserting¿UCL claims and is limited to¿anti-competitive¿practices and not actions by consumers.¿(Cel—Tech, 20 Cal. 4th at 187 n.12.)¿ It is inapplicable in this context because the parties are not competitors.  Here, on the first test, Plaintiffs could have avoided the injury by not defaulting on their loan.  On the second test, Plaintiffs cannot show that by ignoring her loss mitigation applications and initiating foreclosure proceedings, Moving Defendants’ actions or omissions were unscrupulous or immoral.  Plaintiffs’ theory is that they are unscrupulous or immoral because they violate the HBOR, which as discussed above, they did not.  On the third test, Plaintiffs cite to the public policy underlying the HBOR, which as discussed above, was designed to protect borrowers of owner-occupied residential properties, which Plaintiffs are not.  Accordingly, Plaintiffs also cannot meet the “unfair” prong of the UCL. Next, Plaintiffs allege Defendants engaged in fraudulent and deceptive business practices.  “A fraudulent business practice is one in which members of the public are likely to be deceived. The fraudulent business practice prong of the¿UCL¿has been understood to be distinct from common law fraud¿and relief under the UCL is available without individualized proof of deception, reliance and injury.” (Tucker v. Pac. Bell Mobile Servs. (2012) 208 Cal. App. 4th 201, 225.)  While the fraudulent practice need not be stated with the same specificity as a fraud claim, it must still be stated with reasonable particularity.  (Gutierrez v. Carmax Auto Superstores California (2018) 19 Cal.App.5th 1234, 1261.)  Here, Plaintiffs have not specified Defendants’ wrongdoing beyond their allegation that Defendants failed to comply with the HBOR, which as discussed above, is incorrect.      In sum, Plaintiffs have not alleged any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent conduct on the part of Moving Defendants, and accordingly the Court sustains the demurrer to the UCL claim.   Plaintiffs also have not demonstrated any likelihood that they could successfully amend their UCL claim to adequately state a cause of action under that law. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS Defendants Newrez LLC and U.S. Bank Trust National Association’s demurrer without leave to amend as to the first, second, third, and fourth causes of action.     IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED:  October 21, 2024   ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 