 Case Number:  21STCV09378    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, reply, and sur-reply papers, the Court rules
as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
March 10, 2021, Plaintiff Jacqueline Hurwitz (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants City of Los Angeles (“City”), Oceanwide Plaza LLC
(“Oceanwide”), and Does 1-100 for premises liability. 
On
August 13, 2021, the City filed an answer.  On November 24, 2021, Oceanwide filed an
answer. 
On
February 4, 2022, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant
Swinerton Incorporated as Doe 1. 
On
February 9, 2022, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant
Swinerton Management and Consulting, also as Doe 1.  On March 17, 2022, the Court dismissed
Swinerton Management & Consulting without prejudice at Plaintiff’s request. 
On
April 15, 2022, Defendant Swinerton Incorporated filed an answer and a
cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Roes 1-200 for negligence, breach of
contract (express indemnity), equitable indemnity, breach of contract (defense
obligation), breach of contract (insurance obligations), declaratory relief,
and strict products liability. 
On
December 13, 2022, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Lend
Lease (US) Construction, Inc. (“LL”) as Doe 2. 
On
December 22, 2022, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant
Swinerton Builders as Doe 3. 
On
March 6, 2023, Defendant Swinerton Builders dba
Swinerton Management & Consulting (“SB”) filed an answer and a cross-complaint
against Cross-Defendants LL, Oceanwide, and Moes
1-200 for breach of contract (express duty to defend), breach of contract
(express indemnity), breach of contract (insurance promise), breach of contract
(insurance promise), equitable indemnity, and declaratory relief. 
On
March 24, 2023, LL filed an answer to Plaintiff’s complaint. 
Also
on March 24, 2023, Oceanwide and LL filed an answer to SB’s cross-complaint and
filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Webcor Construction LP dba Webcor
Builders (“Webcore”) and Roes 1-50 for aWebcor Constructions LP (“Webcor”) for express
indemnity, breach of written contract, equitable indemnity, contribution, and
declaratory relief. 
On
April 21, 2023, the Court dismissed Webcore without prejudice from the
cross-complaint of Oceanwide and LL at Oceanwide’s request. 
On
September 18, 2023, the Court dismissed Defendant Swinerton Incorporated from
Plaintiff’s complaint without prejudice at Plaintiff’s request. 
On
February 14, 2024, LL filed a notice of stay of proceedings asserting that the
case was stayed with regard to Oceanwide due to an automatic stay caused by a
filing in another court.  The attached
Involuntary Petition Against a Non-Individual, filed February 13, 2024 in the
United States Bankruptcy Court for the Central District of California, cited
Chapter 11 of the bankruptcy code and described Oceanwide as the debtor in Case 2:24-bk-11057. 
On
February 27, 2024, SB filed a motion for summary adjudication to be heard on
May 17, 2024.  On May 10, 2024, LL filed
an untimely opposition.  Also on May 10,
2024, SB filed a reply. The Court continued the hearing on the motion to June
20, 2024 and granted SB leave to file a late reply.  On June 14, 2024, SB filed a sur-reply. 
Trial
is scheduled for February 27, 2025. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
SB
asks the Court to grant summary adjudication of its first cause of action against
LL for breach of contract (express duty to defend) and sixth cause of action
against LL for declaratory relief. 
LL
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
SB’s REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE: Granted 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Summary adjudication 
“‘[F]rom
commencement to conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’”  (LAOSD Asbestos
Cases (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 949, 945, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar)) “[T]he party
moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a
prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;
if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing
party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima
facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material
fact.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 850.) 
When
the moving party is a defendant, it must show that the plaintiff cannot
establish at least one element of the cause of action.  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 853.) “The defendant has shown that the
plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.”  (Id. at p. 854.) The defendant must
“present evidence, and not simply point out that the plaintiff does not
possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Ibid.)
Thus, “the defendant must ‘support[ ]’ the ‘motion’ with
evidence including ‘affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to
interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which judicial notice’ must or may
‘be taken.’ [Citation.] The defendant may, but need not, present evidence
that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of action. The
defendant may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and
cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the
plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered
nothing.”  (Id. at p. 855, original emphasis.) 
“Supporting
and opposing affidavits or declarations . . . shall set forth admissible
evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).) “Matters which would be
excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a witness in a trial as
hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be disregarded in
supporting affidavits.”  (Hayman v. Block (1986) 176
Cal.App.3d 629, 639.) 
In
addition, a party moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication must
support the motion with “a separate statement setting forth plainly and
concisely all material facts which the moving party contends are undisputed.
Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference to the
supporting evidence.” (Parkview Villas Assn. v. State Farm Fire &
Casualty Co. (2006) 133 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1209 (Parkview Villas),
quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1).) The party opposing the motion must
file with the opposition papers “a separate statement that responds to each of
the material facts contended by the moving party to be undisputed, indicating
whether the opposing party agrees or disagrees that those facts are undisputed.
The statement also shall set forth plainly and concisely any other material
facts that the opposing party contends are disputed. Each material fact
contended by the opposing party to be disputed shall be followed by a reference
to the supporting evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(b)(3).)  If either party fails to comply with the applicable
separate statement requirement, that failure may in the court’s discretion
constitute a sufficient ground to decide the motion adversely to the offending
party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds. (b)(1), (3).)  
In
ruling on the motion, the court must consider all the evidence and all the
inferences reasonably drawn from it and must view such evidence and
inferences in the light most favorable to the opposing
party.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843.)  
B.   Indemnity  
Civil
Code section 2778 provides in part: 
“In the interpretation of a contract of indemnity, the
following rules are to be applied, unless a contrary intention appears: 
“1. Upon an indemnity against liability, expressly, or
in other equivalent terms, the person indemnified is entitled to recover upon
becoming liable; 
“2. Upon an indemnity against claims, or demands, or
damages, or costs, expressly, or in other equivalent terms, the person
indemnified is not entitled to recover without payment thereof; 
“3. An indemnity against claims, or demands, or
liability, expressly, or in other equivalent terms, embraces the costs of
defense against such claims, demands, or liability incurred in good faith, and
in the exercise of a reasonable discretion; 
“4. The person indemnifying is bound, on request of
the person indemnified, to defend actions or proceedings brought against the
latter in respect to the matters embraced by the indemnity, but the person
indemnified has the right to conduct such defenses, if he chooses to do so . .
. .” 
(Civ. Code, § 2778, subds.
(1), (2), (3), (4).) 
          Civil Code section 2778 “sets forth general rules for the
interpretation of indemnity contracts, ‘unless a contrary intention appears.’  If not forbidden by other, more specific,
statutes, the obligations set forth in [Civil Code] section 2778 thus are
deemed included in every indemnity agreement unless the parties indicate
otherwise.”  (Crawford v. Weather
Shield Mfg., Inc. (2008) 44 Cal.4th 541, 553 (Crawford).) 
“Several
subdivisions of [Civil Code section 2778] touch specifically on the
indemnitor's obligations with respect to the indemnitee's defense against third
party claims.”  (Crawford, supra,
44 Cal.4th at p. 553.)  “[T]he statute first provides that a promise
of indemnity against claims, demands, or liability ‘embraces the costs of
defense against such claims, demands, or liability’ insofar as such costs are
incurred reasonably and in good faith.  [Citation.]
Second, the section specifies that the indemnitor ‘is bound, on request of the
[indemnitee], to defend actions or proceedings brought against the [indemnitee]
in respect to the matters embraced by the indemnity,’ though the indemnitee may
choose to conduct the defense.  [Citation.].” 
(Ibid.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Undisputed facts 
1.    The Agreement between Oceanwide and LL 
Oceanwide
and LL entered into a written contract (“Agreement”) in which LL was hired to
be the contractor for a mixed-use project in Los Angeles (“Project”).  The Agreement identifies LL as the
Contractor.  SB was the Project’s
construction manager.  The Agreement identifies SB as the Project’s Construction
Manager. 
LL’s
scope of work in the Agreement included “construction, installation and
maintenance of temporary… perimeter sidewalk enclosures and barricades, as
required to prevent … public entry to construction areas and adjacent
properties from construction operations, including covered walkways for public
rights-of-way and for public access to existing building …. Contractor shall
promptly repair or replace and repaint any damaged elements.”   LL agreed to “take
reasonable precautions for safety of, and shall provide reasonable protection
to prevent damage, injury, or loss to…
persons who may be affected thereby.” 
The
Agreement required LL to “post necessary danger signs and other warnings
against hazards.”  LL also promised to “erect
and maintain, as required by existing conditions…reasonable safeguards for
safety and protection, including posting danger signs and other warnings
against hazards, promulgating safety regulations and notifying owners and users
of adjacent sites and utilities.” 
The Agreement between Oceanwide and LL contained the following provision: 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, Contractor
[LL] shall indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the Owner … Construction
Manager [SB] … and their direct and indirect subsidiaries, members, principals,
partners, shareholders, trustees, beneficiaries, officers, directors,
employees, licensees, successors, assignees, and representatives (collectively hereinafter “Indemnified Parties”) from
and against all third party claims, demands, allegations (whether valid or
invalid), actions, proceedings, liabilities, damages, and losses (direct or
consequential), fines, and expenses for bodily injury or death, damage to or
destruction of tangible property, (other than the Work itself), nuisance (or
any similar claim or cause of action), including without limitation defense
costs and fees of attorneys, consultants, and experts, arising out of or resulting
from: (i) breach of the Contract; (ii) violation of any Legal Requirement; or (iii) any negligence or intentional misconduct of
Contractor, its Subcontractors, anyone directly or indirectly employed by any
of them, or anyone for whose acts any of them may be liable (collectively
in this Section 3.18.1, “Indemnified Matters”). …. To the fullest extent
permitted by law, all of the obligations of Contractor under or pursuant to
this Section 3.18.1 shall apply regardless of whether any Indemnified Matter is
caused in whole or in part by an Indemnified Party (but not to extent of any
Indemnified Parties active negligence of [sic] sole negligence, unless an Owner
Controlled Insurance Program, Contractor Controlled Insurance Program or other
wrap-up type insurance is provided in connection with the Work).  (UMF 18.) 
2.    Plaintiff’s complaint 
On
March 10, 2021, Plaintiff filed a complaint alleging that she sustained bodily
injuries on December 6, 2019 after falling due to a broken sidewalk traffic
signal box or electric cement box on which a thick piece of wood was placed as
a cover located at the corner of the intersection of 11th street and Figueroa
in Los Angeles, California. 
Plaintiff
alleges that Oceanwide, the City, and Does 1 to 100 negligently owned,
maintained, managed and operated the sidewalk. 
On
December 13, 2022, Plaintiff amended her complaint to include LL as Doe 2.
On December 22, 2022, Plaintiff amended her
complaint to include SB as Doe 3. 
3.    Testimony
 Plaintiff has testified that she tripped on the “uneven, jaggedy concrete” sidewalk next to the traffic signal or electric box. 
Jonathan
Fraker (“Fraker”), LL’s general superintendent at the Project, testified as LL’s
Person Most Qualified for categories regarding the incident and the sidewalk.
 Fraker
testified that LL hired a subcontractor to maintain the sidewalk.  Fraker also
testified that, in December 2019, LL field supervisors and its subcontractor
would inspect the subject sidewalk. 
SB’s
senior project manager at the Project testified
that LL was “responsible for maintenance of the sidewalk.” 
4.    SB tenders its defense to LL 
 On June 27, 2022, SB tendered its defense in
Plaintiff’s action to LL. 
On
March 6, 2023, SB filed a cross-complaint against LL for express duty to defend
and declaratory relief. 
On
April 20, 2023, SB sent a second letter tendering its defense to LL. 
LL
has not accepted SB’s tender.  SB has
incurred, and continues to incur, thousands of dollars in defense costs
including attorney’s fees. 
B.   SB has carried its initial summary adjudication burden 
SB argues
that the Agreement obligates LL to provide SB a defense in Plaintiff’s action.  According to SB, the Agreement imposes on LL a
duty to defend SB that is separate from LL’s duty to indemnify SB.  As a third-party beneficiary, SB is entitled
to enforce the agreement. 
SB
relies on Crawford, supra, 44 Cal.4th 541, where Weather Shield
Manufacturing Co., Inc. ("Weather Shield") contracted with J.M. Peters Co. ("JMP"), the developer, builder, and general contractor of a residential project, to
manufacture and supply wood-framed windows for the project.  (Id. at p. 547.)  “In the contract, Weather Shield promised (1)
‘to indemnify and save [JMP] harmless against all claims for damages ... loss,
... and/or theft ... growing out of the execution of [Weather Shield's] work,’
and (2) ‘at [its] own expense to defend any suit or action brought against
[JMP] founded upon the claim of such damage[,] ... loss or theft.’ ” (Id.
at pp. 547-548.) 
Owners
of 122 finished homes in the project sued JMP, Weather Shield, and other
participants in the project's construction, alleging construction defects.  (Crawford, supra, 44 Cal.4th at
p. 548.)  JMP cross-complained against
Weather Shield and other project subcontractors asserting that, under the
pertinent subcontract provisions, the subcontractors owed JMP duties of indemnity and
defense against the homeowners' complaints. 
(Ibid.) 
The
trial court ruled that the subcontract gave Weather Shield responsibility for
JMP's legal defense against the homeowners' claims, insofar as those claims
concerned the windows supplied by Weather Shield, regardless of whether Weather
Shield was ultimately found negligent.  (Crawford,
supra, 44 Cal.4th at p. 549.)   The Court of Appeal affirmed.  (Id. at p. 550.) 
The Supreme
Court granted review to decide if a
contract under which a subcontractor agrees “to defend any suit or action”
against a developer “founded upon” any claim “growing out of the execution of
the work” requires the subcontractor to provide a defense to a suit against the
developer even if the subcontractor was not negligent. 
The
Court affirmed, concluding that the pertinent terms of Weather Shield's
subcontract with JMP, even if strictly construed in Weather Shield's favor, expressly
and unambiguously obligated Weather Shield to defend, from the outset, any suit
against JMP insofar as that suit was “founded upon” claims alleging damage or
loss arising from Weather Shield's negligent role in the residential project. (Crawford, supra, 44 Cal.4th at p. 553.)  Weather Shield therefore had a contractual
obligation to defend such a suit even if it was later determined that Weather
Shield was not negligent.  (Ibid.) 
In
reaching this conclusion, the Court observed that the subcontract “imposed two
distinct obligations on Weather Shield. First, Weather Shield agreed ‘to indemnify and save [JMP]
harmless against all claims for damages to persons or to property and claims
for loss, damage and/or theft ... growing out of the execution of [Weather
Shield's] work.’  Second, Weather Shield made a separate and specific promise ‘at
[its] own expense to defend any suit or action brought against [JMP] founded
upon the claim of such damage ... loss, ... or theft.’ ” (Crawford,
supra, 44 Cal.4th at p. 553.) 
The
Court reasoned that “[a] contractual promise to ‘defend’ another against
specified claims clearly connotes an obligation of active responsibility, from
the outset, for the promisee's defense against such claims. The duty promised
is to render, or fund, the service of providing a defense on the promisee's
behalf—a duty that necessarily arises as soon as such claims are made against
the promisee, and may continue until they have been resolved.” (Crawford, supra, 44 Cal.4th at pp. 553-554.)  The duty to defend “is thus different from a
duty expressed simply as an obligation to pay another, after the fact, for
defense costs the other has incurred in defending itself.  Section 2778, the
statute governing the construction of all indemnity agreements, makes the distinction
clear.  On the one hand, as noted above, the section specifies that a basic
contractual indemnity against particular claims, demands, or liabilities ‘embraces
the costs of defense’ against such claims, demands, or liabilities. [Citation.]  On the other hand, the statute separately specifies the indemnitor's duty
actually ‘to defend,’ upon the indemnitee's request, proceedings against the
latter ‘in respect to the matters embraced by the indemnity,’ though ‘the
person indemnified has the right to conduct such defenses if he chooses to do
so.’  [Citation.]”  (Id. at p. 554.) 
“By
virtue of these statutory provisions, the case law has long confirmed that,
unless the parties' agreement expressly provides otherwise, a contractual
indemnitor has the obligation, upon proper tender by the indemnitee, to accept
and assume the indemnitee's active defense against claims encompassed by the
indemnity provision. Where the indemnitor has breached this obligation, an
indemnitee who was thereby forced, against its wishes, to defend itself is
entitled to reimbursement of the costs of doing so.” (Crawford, supra, 44 Cal.4th at p. 555.) 
“Implicit
in this understanding of the duty to defend an indemnitee against all claims
“embraced by the indemnity,” as specified in subdivision 4 of [Civil Code] section
2778, is that the duty arises immediately upon a proper tender of defense by
the indemnitee, and thus before the litigation to be defended has determined
whether indemnity is actually owed. This duty, as described in the statute,
therefore cannot depend on the outcome of that litigation.”  (Crawford,
supra, 44 Cal.4th at p. 558.) 
Based
on the language of the Agreement and the reasoning of Crawford, the
Court finds that SB has carried its initial burden on summary adjudication,
shifting the burden to LL. 
C.   LL has failed to raise a triable issue of fact 
1.    Code of Civil Procedure section 437c 
LL
argues that the Court should deny the motion because SB’s notice of motion
cites the provisions of Code of Civil Procedure section 437c that address
summary judgment rather than the provisions that address summary adjudication. 
SB’s
motion is titled “Motion for Summary Adjudication” and it cites Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c.  The Court
construes the motion as one seeking summary adjudication under the appropriate statutory
provisions. 
2.    Civil Code section 2782.05 
LL
argues that “[w]hile there is an indemnity provision in [LL’s] agreement, it is
premature to adjudicate whether [SB] is entitled to defense and indemnity
because there are triable issues of fact as to whether any of Plaintiff’s
injuries, damages, losses or expenses are attributed to LL’s work next to the
Subject Location.”  (Opposition p.
3.)  LL relies on Civil Code section 2782.05,
subdivision (a), which provides: 
“Except as provided in subdivision (b), provisions,
clauses, covenants, and agreements contained in, collateral to, or affecting
any construction contract and amendments thereto entered into on or after
January 1, 2013, that purport to insure or indemnify, including the cost to
defend, a general contractor, construction manager, or other subcontractor, by
a subcontractor against liability for claims of death or bodily injury to
persons, injury to property, or any other loss, damage, or expense are void and
unenforceable to the extent the claims arise out of, pertain to, or relate to
the active negligence or willful misconduct of that general contractor,
construction manager, or other subcontractor, or their other agents, other
servants, or other independent contractors who are responsible to the general
contractor, construction manager, or other subcontractor, or for defects in
design furnished by those persons, or to the extent the claims do not arise out
of the scope of work of the subcontractor pursuant to the construction
contract. This section shall not be waived or modified by contractual
agreement, act, or omission of the parties. Contractual provisions, clauses,
covenants, or agreements not expressly prohibited herein are reserved to the
agreement of the parties. This section shall not affect the obligations of an
insurance carrier under the holding of Presley Homes, Inc. v. American States
Insurance Company (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 571, nor the rights of an insurance
carrier under the holding of Buss v. Superior Court (1997) 16 Cal.4th 35.” 
(Civ. Code, § 2782.05, subd.
(a).) 
          SB responds that Civil Code section 2782.05, subdivision
(a), does not apply here because the statute does not apply to “[d]irect contracts with
the owner of privately owned real property to be improved that are governed by
subdivision (c) of Section 2782.”  (Civ. Code, § 2782.05, subd. (b)(3).)  According to SB, the Agreement here is a contract
with Oceanwide, which is the property owner for purposes of Civil Code section 2782.05,
subdivision (b)(3).  In addition, SB
argues, Civil Code section 2782.05, subdivision (a), does not apply because
Plaintiff has not alleged active negligence or willful misconduct by SB.  Instead, SB asserts, the complaint alleges
passive negligence. 
          In Oltmans Construction Co. v. Bayside Interiors, Inc.
(2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 355 (Oltmans), the Court of Appeal held that under
Civil Code section 2782.05, subdivision (a) (or a similarly-worded contractual
provision), “the general contractor is precluded from recovering indemnity for
liability incurred as a result of its own active negligence but may be
indemnified for the portion of liability attributable to the fault of others.”  (Oltmans, supra, 10 Cal.App.5th
at p. 358.) 
Here,
Plaintiff alleges that Oceanwide, the
City, LL, SB and Doe defendants negligently owned, maintained, managed and
operated the sidewalk.  The Agreement requires
LL to defend SB from claims arising out
of or resulting from  “any negligence or
intentional misconduct of Contractor [LL], its Subcontractors, anyone directly
or indirectly employed by any of them, or anyone for whose acts any of them may
be liable.”  LL has not presented evidence
negating the possibility that LL or its subcontractors (or their employees) may
be found liable to Plaintiff.
LL argues
that “there are triable issues of fact as to whether any of Plaintiff’s injuries, damages, losses or expenses are
attributed to [LL’s] work next to the Subject Location.”  But neither the Agreement nor Civil Code
section 2782.05 condition LL’s defense obligation on a final determination of
the parties’ respective responsibilities (if any) for Plaintiff’s injuries. 
Moreover,
the Agreement does not purport to impose an obligation on LL to defend SB from claims
that “arise out of, pertain to, or relate to the active negligence or willful
misconduct of that general contractor, construction manager, or other
subcontractor, or their other agents, other servants, or other independent
contractors who are responsible to the general contractor, construction
manager, or other subcontractor . . . .” 
(Civ. Code, § 2782.05, subd. (a).) 
The Agreement excludes claims arising from an indemnified party’s active
negligence or sole negligence (absent “wrap-up type insurance”). 
According to LL, its scope of work was limited to the area within the
construction site and did not include the sidewalk outside the fence where Plaintiff
fell, which the City of Los Angeles was responsible for maintaining.  (Opposition pp. 3-4.)  Yet the Agreement does not “purport to insure
or indemnify, including the cost to defend, a general contractor, construction
manager, or other subcontractor, by a subcontractor against liability for
claims of death or bodily injury to persons, injury to property, or any other
loss, damage, or expense . . . [when] . . . the claims do not arise out of the
scope of work of the subcontractor pursuant to the construction contract.”  (See Civ. Code, § 2782.05, subd. (a).) 
The
Court concludes that Civil Code section 2782.05, subdivision (a) does void or
make unenforceable LL’s obligation under the Agreement to defend SB. 
LL
has not raised a triable issue of fact concerning whether LL is obligated to
defend SB.  The Court grants SB’s motion
for summary adjudication. 
CONCLUSION 
          The Court GRANTS Defendant
and Cross-Complainant Swinerton Builders dba Swinerton Management &
Consulting’s motion for summary adjudication of its first cause of action
against Defendant and Cross-Defendant Lend Lease
(U.S.) Construction, Inc. for breach of contract (express duty to defend).  The Court summarily adjudicates this claim in
favor of Defendant and Cross-Complainant Swinerton Builders dba Swinerton
Management & Consulting. 
          The Court GRANTS Defendant and Cross-Complainant Swinerton
Builders dba Swinerton Management & Consulting’s motion for summary
adjudication of its sixth cause of action against Defendant and Cross-Defendant
Lend Lease (U.S.) Construction, Inc. for declaratory relief. 
The
Court DECLARES that Defendant and Cross-Defendant Lend Lease (U.S.)
Construction, Inc. is obligated to provide a defense to Defendant and Cross-Complainant
Swinerton Builders dba Swinerton Management & Consulting in the underlying
case of Hurwitz v. City of Los Angeles et seq., Los Angeles Superior
Court case number 21STCV09378, including reimbursement of defense costs and fees of attorneys,
consultants, and experts, from the date of tender, based on the Agreement
between Defendant Oceanwide Plaza LLC and Defendant and Cross-Defendant Lend
Lease (U.S.) Construction, Inc. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days. 