 Case Number:  22STCV11587    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as  follows.  BACKGROUND  A.   Case number 22STCV11587 (Friedman v. Allen et al.)  On  April 5, 2022, Plaintiffs Steven Friedman and Janis  Friedman (“Steven Friedman and Janis Friedman”) filed an action against  Defendants Daniel Allen (“Allen”), Dana Campbell (“Campbell”), 21st Century Company, and  Does 1-100 for negligence, infliction of emotional distress, strict liability  for ultrahazardous activity, and declaratory relief.  (Case number 22STCV11587.)  On  July 14, 2023, the clerk entered Allen’s default. On January 2, 2024, the Court  granted Allen’s motion to vacate the default.  On  February 20, 2024, the Court sustained Campbell’s demurrer to Steven Friedman’s  and Janis Friedman’s claims for intentional infliction of emotional distress  and strict liability for engaging in ultrahazardous activity with 30 days leave  to amend. The Court also granted Campbell’s motion to strike Steven Friedman’s  and Janis Friedman’s punitive damage claim and allegations of malice, fraud, or  oppression with 30 days leave to amend.  On  March 21, 2024, Steven  Friedman and Janis Friedman filed a  first amended complaint against Allen, Campbell, 21st Century Insurance  Company, and Does 1-100 for negligence (including negligence per se),  infliction of emotional distress, strict liability for ultrahazardous activity,  and declaratory relief.  Trial  is currently scheduled for March 20, 2025.  B.    Case  number 23SMCV01086 (Hillman v.  Campbell et al.)  On  March 10, 2023, Plaintiff Jared Hillman (“Hillman”) filed an action against  Defendants Campbell and Does 1-10 for negligence.  (Case number 23SMCV01086.)  On  March 13, 2023, Hillman filed a first amended complaint against Defendants  Campbell, Allen, and Does 1-10 for negligence.  On  September 11, 2023, Campbell filed an answer. On February 2, 2024, Allen filed  an answer.  Trial  is currently scheduled for March 20, 2025.  C.    Case  number 23SMCV01411 (Gillett v. Allen et al.)  On  March 30, 2023, Plaintiff Rachelle Marie Gillett (“Gillett”) filed an action  against Defendants Allen, Campbell, and Does 1-25 for motor vehicle tort and  general negligence.  (Case number  23SMCV01411.)  On  August 11, 2023, Campbell filed an answer. On February 2, 2024, Allen filed an  answer.  Trial  is currently scheduled for March 12, 2025.  D.   The Court relates the cases  On  January 25, 2024, the Court found that case numbers 22STCV11587 and 23SMCV01086  are related within the meaning of California Rules of Court, rule 3.300(a).  Case number 22STCV11587 became the lead case.  The cases were assigned to Department 28 of the Spring Street Courthouse for  all purposes.  On  January 29, 2024, the Court found that case number 23SMCV01411 is related to  case numbers 22STCV11587 and 23SMCV01086. Case number 22STCV11587 remained the  lead case. The cases were assigned to Department 28 of the Spring Street  Courthouse for all purposes.  E.   These motions  1.    Campbell’s demurrer and motion to strike  On  April 17, 2024, Campbell filed a demurrer to the first amended complaint and a  motion to strike in case number 22STCV11587.   The motions were set for hearing on May 16, 2024.  Campbell continued the hearing to May 31,  2024.  On May 17, 2024, Steven Friedman  and Janis Friedman filed oppositions.  On  May 23, 2024, Campbell filed replies.   The Court continued the hearing to June 20, 2024.  2.    Allen’s demurrer and motion to strike  On  April 17, 2024, Allen filed a demurrer to the first amended complaint and a  motion to strike in case number  22STCV11587.  The motions were set for  hearing on May 28, 2024.  Allen continued  the hearing to June 11, 2024.  On May 29,  2024, Steven Friedman and Janis Friedman filed oppositions.  The Court continued the hearing to June 20, 2024.  3.    Campbell’s motion to consolidate  On May  22, 2024, Campbell filed a motion to consolidate case numbers 22STCV11587,  23SMCV01086, and 23SMCV01411.  The motion  was set for hearing on June 20, 2024.  No  opposition has been filed.  PARTIES’ REQUESTS  Campbell  and Allen ask the Court to sustain their demurrers to the first amended  complaint and to grant their motions to strike.  Steven  Friedman and Janis Friedman ask the Court to overrule the demurrers and deny  the motions to strike.  Campbell  asks the Court to consolidate case  numbers 22STCV11587, 23SMCV01086, and 23SMCV01411 for all purposes.  LEGAL STANDARDS  A.   Demurrer  “The party against whom a complaint or cross-complaint  has been filed may object, by demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30,  to the pleading on any one or more of the following grounds:  “(a) The court has no jurisdiction of the subject  of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  “(b) The person who filed the pleading does not  have the legal capacity to sue.  “(c) There is another action pending between the  same parties on the same cause of action.  “(d) There is a defect or misjoinder of parties.  “(e) The pleading does not state facts sufficient  to constitute a cause of action.  “(f) The pleading is uncertain. As used in this  subdivision, “uncertain” includes ambiguous and unintelligible.  “(g) In an action founded upon a contract, it  cannot be ascertained from the pleading whether the contract is written, is  oral, or is implied by conduct.  “(h) No certificate was filed as required by  Section 411.35.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10.)  In a  demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading  or by judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a) [“When any  ground for objection to a complaint, cross-complaint, or answer appears on the  face thereof, or from any matter of which the court is required to or may take  judicial notice, the objection on that ground may be taken by a demurrer to the  pleading”].)  “For  the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer  admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded (i.e., all ultimate  facts alleged, but not conclusions, deductions, or conclusions of facts or  law).”  (L. Edmon and C. Karnow, Cal.  Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 7:43, p. 7(l)-25,  emphasis omitted (Cal. Practice Guide).)   "A  demurrer may be filed to one of several causes of action in the complaint,  without answering the other causes of action."  (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 7:34.1,  p. 7(l)-19.)  Code  of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (b), provides:  “A party demurring to a pleading that has been amended  after a demurrer to an earlier version of the pleading was sustained shall not  demur to any portion of the amended complaint, cross-complaint, or answer on  grounds that could have been raised by demurrer to the earlier version of the  complaint, cross-complaint, or answer.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41,  subd. (b).)  B.   Motion to strike  “Any  party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a  notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof . . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).)  The Court may “[s]trike out any irrelevant,  false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,  subd. (a).)  “The grounds for a motion to  strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading of from any matter  of which the court is required to take judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (a).)  ““In passing on the correctness of a ruling on a motion to strike, judges read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their truth.”  (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  Code  of Civil Procedure section 435.5, subdivision (b), provides:  “(b) A party moving to strike a pleading that has been  amended after a motion to strike an earlier version of the pleading was granted  shall not move to strike any portion of the pleadings on grounds that could  have been raised by a motion to strike as to the earlier version of the  pleading.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5,  subd. (b).)  C.   Intentional infliction of emotional distress  “The  elements of a cause of action for [intentional infliction of emotional  distress] are as follows: (1) defendant engaged in extreme and outrageous  conduct (conduct so extreme as to exceed all bounds of decency in a civilized  community) with the intent to cause, or with reckless disregard to the  probability of causing, emotional distress; and (2) as a result, plaintiff  suffered extreme or severe emotional distress.”   (Berry v. Frazier (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th 1258, 1273 (Berry),  citing Potter v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 965,  1001 (Potter).)  In addition, the extreme and outrageous conduct ‘ “must be . . . directed at the  plaintiff, or occur in the presence of the plaintiff of whom the defendant is  aware.” [Citation.] “The requirement that the defendant's conduct be directed  primarily at the plaintiff is a factor which distinguishes intentional  infliction of emotional distress from the negligent infliction of such injury.”  ’ ” (Berry, supra, 90  Cal.App.5th at p. 1273, quoting Potter, supra, 6 Cal.4th at p.  1002.)  D.   Ultrahazardous activity  The  doctrine of ultrahazardous activity “imposes liability for damage proximately  caused by one who carries on an ‘ultrahazardous’ activity. As defined by the  California restatement of the doctrine, ‘An activity is ultrahazardous if it  (a) necessarily involves a risk of serious harm to the person, land or chattels  of others which cannot be eliminated by the exercise of the utmost care, and  (b) is not a matter of common usage . . . .’ ” (Edwards v. Post  Transportation Co. (1991) 228 Cal.App.3d 980, 983, quoting Luthringer v.  Moore (1948) 31 Cal.2d 489, 498.) “It is established that whether an  activity is an ultrahazardous activity is a question of law for court  decision.” (Ibid.; see id. at p. 895 [“There are many activities  in our modern society which, although clearly very hazardous, like automobile  driving, we accept because they are so commonly utilized”].)  E.   Punitive damages  Civil  Code section 3294 provides in part:  “(a) In an action for the breach of an obligation not  arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that  the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff,  in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example  and by way of punishing the defendant.   * * * “(c) As used in this section, the following  definitions shall apply:  “(1) ‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the  defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is  carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the  rights or safety of others.  “(2) ‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct that  subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that  person’s rights.  (3) ‘Fraud’ means an intentional misrepresentation,  deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the  intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of  property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subds.  (a), (c).)  “Simple  negligence will not justify an award of punitive damages.” (Spencer v. San  Francisco Brick Co. (1907) 5 Cal.App.126, 128.)  But “nonintentional torts support punitive damages when the defendant's conduct ‘involves  conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others’ . . . .”  (Pfeifer v. John Crane, Inc. (2013)  220 Cal.App.4th 1270, 1299 (Pfeifer), quoting Gawara v. United States  Brass Corp. (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1341, 1361.)  “As defined in the punitive damages statute, ‘[m]alice’  encompasses ‘despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a  willful and conscious disregard of the rights and safety of others,’ and ‘[o]ppression’  means ‘despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship  in conscious disregard of that person's rights.’ ”  (Ibid., quoting Civ. Code, § 3294,  subds. (c)(1), (2).) “The term ‘ “despicable,” ’ though not defined in the  statute, is applicable to ‘circumstances that are “base,” “vile,” or “contemptible.”  ’ ” (Ibid., quoting College Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court  (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.)  “Under  the statute, ‘malice does not require actual intent to harm. [Citation.]  Conscious disregard for the safety of another may be sufficient where the  defendant is aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his or her conduct  and he or she willfully fails to avoid such consequences. [Citation.] Malice  may be proved either expressly through direct evidence or by implication  through indirect evidence from which the jury draws inferences. [Citation.]’ ”  (Pfeifer, supra, 220 Cal.App.4th at p. 1299, quoting Angie M. v. Superior  Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1228.)  F.    Motion to consolidate  Code  of Civil Procedure section 1048, subdivision (a), provides:  “(a) When actions involving a common question of law  or fact are pending before the court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of  any or all the matters in issue in the actions; it may order all the actions  consolidated and it may make such orders concerning proceedings therein as may  tend to avoid unnecessary costs or delay.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048,  subd. (a).)  California  Rules of Court, rule 3.350(a), provides:  “(a) Requirements of motion  “(1)  A notice  of motion to consolidate must:  “(A)  List all  named parties in each case, the names of those who have appeared, and the names  of their respective attorneys of record;  “(B)  Contain  the captions of all the cases sought to be consolidated, with the lowest  numbered case shown first; and  “(C)  Be filed  in each case sought to be consolidated.  “(2)  The motion  to consolidate:  “(A)  Is deemed  a single motion for the purpose of determining the appropriate filing fee, but  memorandums, declarations, and other supporting papers must be filed only in  the lowest numbered case;  “(B)  Must be  served on all attorneys of record and all nonrepresented parties in all of the  cases sought to be consolidated; and          “(C)  Must have  a proof of service filed as part of the motion.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule  3.350(a).)  Los  Angeles County Superior Court Local Rule 3.3(g) provides:  “(1) Cases may not be consolidated unless they are in  the same department. A motion to consolidate two or more cases may be noticed  and heard after the cases, initially filed in different departments, have been  related into a single department, or if the cases were already assigned to that  department. (2) Upon consolidation of cases, the first filed case will be the  lead case, unless otherwise ordered by the court. After consolidation, all  future papers to be filed in the consolidated case must be filed only in the  case designated as the lead case. (3) Before consolidation of a limited case  with an unlimited case, the limited case must be reclassified as an unlimited  case and the reclassification fee paid.”  DISCUSSION  I.                Plaintiffs’  first amended complaint  The  first amended complaint alleges the following:  On  or about April 5, 2021, Allen ran a red light while speeding and struck the  vehicle of Steven Friedman and Janis Friedman (“Plaintiffs”), injuring them and  damaging their vehicle.  Allen was  fleeing the police, who were pursuing Allen because he had committed  a crime.    Campbell  owned the vehicle Allen was driving and gave Allen express or implied  permission to drive it and/or knew Allen was driving it.  Campbell knew  about Allen’s prior criminal conduct and knew it was likely that Allen would  engage in ultrahazardous activity including disregarding traffic laws and  excessive speeding.  Allen’s  conduct was outrageous and dangerous and it demonstrated a complete and wanton  disregard for the safety of others who were in the area, including Plaintiffs.  Defendants’  conduct was intentional and “was done with malice, oppression and fraud and  justifies an award of punitive and exemplary damages against Defendants.”  The  first amended complaint asserts claims against Campbell and Allen for  negligence (including negligence per se, gross negligence, and negligent  infliction of emotional distress), intentional infliction of emotional  distress, and strict liability for engaging in ultrahazardous activity.  In the prayer, Plaintiffs request (1) compensatory  damages against Campbell and Allen, (2) attorney's fees and costs, and (3) punitive damages against “Allen  only.”  II.             Campbell’s  demurrer and motion to strike  A.   Campbell’s demurrer  1.    Plaintiffs’ claim against Campbell for negligence  Citing  Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (b), Plaintiffs argue that Campbell  may not demur to the negligence claim in the first amended complaint because Campbell’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’  original complaint did not demur to that claim. In  response, Campbell argues that Plaintiffs waived their right to rely on Code of  Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (b), by alleging “new and distinct  facts” in the first amended complaint.  Despite  Plaintiffs’ new allegations in the first amended complaint, Campbell’s demurrer  makes arguments “that could have been raised  by demurrer to the earlier version of the complaint . . . .”  (Code Civ.  Proc., § 430.41, subd. (b).)  Therefore, Code  of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (b), bars Campbell’s demurrer to  the negligence claim in the first amended complaint.   The Court overrules Campbell’s demurrer to  the negligence claim.  2.    Plaintiffs’ claim against Campbell for intentional  infliction of emotional distress  Plaintiffs’  first amended complaint alleges that (1) Campbell gave consent or permission  for Allen to drive the car and/or knew that Allen was driving the car and (2) Campbell knew about Allen’s prior criminal  conduct and knew it was likely that Allen would engage  in ultrahazardous activity including disregarding traffic laws and excessive  speeding.  Even assuming these alleged facts are true, they do  not support a claim for intentional infliction of emotional distress because  the first amended complaint does not allege facts showing that Campbell’s  conduct was directed at Plaintiffs or occurred in Plaintiffs’ presence of which  Campbell was aware.  Plaintiffs argue that their complaint is not required  to allege facts establishing the elements of Plaintiffs’ claims (including  intentional infliction of emotional distress) because Allen’s conduct is  “imputed” to Campbell under Vehicle Code section 17150, which provides:  “Every owner  of a motor vehicle is liable and responsible for death or injury to person or  property resulting from a negligent or wrongful act or omission in the  operation of the motor vehicle, in the business of the owner or otherwise, by  any person using or operating the same with the permission, express or implied,  of the owner.”  (Veh. Code, § 17150.)            Plaintiffs  cite no authority supporting their contention that a defendant’s liability  under Vehicle Code section 17150 subjects the defendant to liability on  non-statutory claims whose elements the plaintiff has failed to plead.  The Court does not believe the Legislature  intended this result when it enacted Vehicle Code section 17150.    The Court  sustains the demurrer to Plaintiffs’ claim against Campbell for intentional  infliction of emotional distress.  3.    Plaintiffs’ claim against Campbell for engaging in  ultrahazardous activity  The  first amended complaint alleges that “Defendants, through their authorized  agent Defendant Allen, engaged in ultrahazardous activity.”  (First Amended Complaint ¶ 48.)   But Plaintiffs  have cited no authority that authorizes the imposition of strict liability on a  defendant based on the ultrahazardous activities of the defendant’s alleged  agent.  Also, as previously noted,  Vehicle Code section 17150 does not relieve Plaintiffs of the obligation to  plead facts supporting the elements of their claims.  The Court sustains the demurrer to this claim.  B.   Campbell’s motion to strike  1.    Punitive damage allegations (paragraphs 31, 32, 46,  and 54)  As Campbell  observes, the prayer in the first amended complaint requests punitive damages from Allen only.  Nonetheless, Campbell  argues, the first amended complaint contains allegations that  suggest that Plaintiffs are also seeking punitive damages from Campbell.  Campbell asks the Court to strike these  allegations.  Citing  Code of Civil Procedure section 435.5, subdivision (b), Plaintiffs argue that  Campbell may not move to strike the punitive damage allegations in the first  amended complaint because Campbell's motion to strike portions of Plaintiffs' original complaint did not move to strike these allegations.  Paragraphs  31, 32, 46, and 54 of the first amended complaint allege that “Defendants”  acted with malice, oppression, and fraud, justifying an award of punitive  damages against “Defendants.”  Code  of Civil Procedure section 435.5, subdivision (b), does not prevent Campbell  from moving to strike these allegations because Campbell challenged the  identical or almost identical allegations of the original complaint in her  previous demurrer.  The  Court grants Campbell’s motion to strike paragraphs 31, 32, 46, and 54 without  leave to amend to the  extent that these paragraphs apply to Campbell because (1) Plaintiffs’ prayer for relief does  not seek punitive damages against Campbell, making the allegations irrelevant  to the extent they apply to Campbell, and (2) Plaintiffs have not pleaded facts  that support a punitive damage claim or allegations of malice, oppression, or  fraud against Campbell.  2.    Other allegations  a.    Paragraph 17  Paragraph  17 alleges: “Plaintiffs are informed and believe that prior to colliding with  Plaintiffs, Defendant Allen caused injuries to others during this same drive  without ever stopping or slowing down and therefore knew that if he continued  to drive in this incredibly dangerous manner he would cause severe injury or  death to others. Despite this knowledge, Defendant Allen continued to speed and  drive in an incredibly dangerous manner.”  Code  of Civil Procedure section 435.5, subdivision (b), does not prevent Campbell  from moving to strike these allegations.   However, the Court denies Campbell’s motion to strike paragraph 17  because (1) it does not mention Campbell and (2) Campbell has not shown that the  allegations are improper.  b.    Paragraphs 21, 30, 40, 45, 53, and prayer  Paragraphs 21, 30, 40, 45, and 53 allege that  Plaintiffs’ damages are between $1 million and $50 million.  The prayer asks for “general and specific damages  in an amount to be proven at trial not to exceed $50,000,000.”  Code  of Civil Procedure section 435.5, subdivision (b), prevents Campbell from  moving to strike these allegations.  Campbell  did not challenge the identical or almost identical allegations of the original  complaint in her previous demurrer.  (See  original complaint ¶¶ 20, 25, 35, 40, 48, prayer.)  The Court denies Campbell’s motion to strike  these allegations.  c.     Paragraph 28  Paragraph  28 alleges that Campbell “had prior knowledge of Defendant Allen’s prior  conduct in engaging in crimes and knew that it was likely Allen would engage in  ultrahazardous activity including disregarding traffic laws and excessive  speeding.”  Code  of Civil Procedure section 435.5, subdivision (b), does not prevent Campbell  from moving to strike these allegations.   However, the Court denies Campbell’s motion to strike the allegations  because they are not (as Campbell argues) “contentions, deductions, or  conclusions of either fact or law.”  Plaintiffs  are not required to plead evidentiary facts to support their allegations.  (See Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶  6:123, p. 6-39 [“ ‘The complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a  cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the  plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged’ ” (quoting C.A. v. William S. Hart  Union High School Dist. (2012) 54 Cal.4th 861, 872)].)  d.    Paragraph 38  Paragraph  38 alleges: “This conduct was also outrageous and beyond the norms tolerated  within society because society requires conformity with the traffic laws as  well as prohibits the commission of crimes, including dangerous crimes such as  the instant crimes.”  Code  of Civil Procedure section 435.5, subdivision (b), prevents Campbell from  moving to strike paragraph 38 because Campbell did not challenge the identical  or almost identical allegations of the original complaint in her previous  demurrer.  (See original complaint ¶ 33.)   The Court denies Campbell’s motion to strike  these allegations.  e.     Prayer for attorney’s fees  The  prayer includes a request for “all attorney’s fees … as provided by statute.”  Code  of Civil Procedure section 435.5, subdivision (b), prevents Campbell from  moving to strike the prayer for attorney’s fees because Campbell did not  challenge the identical or almost identical prayer in the original complaint in  her previous demurrer.  (See original  complaint, prayer.)  The Court denies  Campbell’s motion to strike the prayer for attorney’s fees.  III.          Allen’s demurrer  and motion to strike        A.   Allen’s demurrer  1.    Plaintiffs’ claim against Allen for intentional infliction  of emotional distress  Allen  concedes that the conduct alleged in the first amended complaint “sound[s]  intentional and outrageous . . . .”   (Demurrer p. 5.)  However, Allen argues  that “it is unclear if all of [Allen’s] alleged conduct was directed at the  Plaintiffs or occurred in the presence of the Plaintiffs of whom [Allen] was  aware. The speeding, evading police, running red light(s), a standoff for  hours, an arrest and other crimes are all plead in a conclusory fashion and  these acts were not done when Plaintiffs were present or witnessed the events.”  (Demurrer p. 5.)  The first  amended complaint alleges that Allen’s vehicle struck Plaintiffs’ vehicle at  the end of a police pursuit when Allen, who was speeding, drove through a red  light without slowing down.  It alleges that “Plaintiffs were both present when Defendant Allen  ran the red light and hit them with the Defendant’s car.”  (First amended complaint ¶ 19.)  The first amended complaint pleads facts showing that Allen was in Plaintiffs’ presence  when the accident took place.  It is fair  to infer that, having struck their car, Allen was aware of Plaintiffs’ presence.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 452 [“In the  construction of a pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its  allegations must be liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice  between the parties”]; Advanced Modular Sputtering, Inc. v. Superior Court (2005)  132 Cal.App.4th 826, 835 [“Generally speaking, pleadings are to be liberally  construed in favor of the pleader”].)  The  Court overrules Allen’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ claim for intentional  infliction of emotional distress.  2.    Plaintiffs’ claim against Allen for engaging in an  ultrahazardous activity  Allen  argues that driving is not an ultrahazardous activity which creates a risk that  cannot be eliminated by the exercise of reasonable care.  Plaintiffs respond that Allen was not simply  driving but was speeding, running red lights, hitting cars and people, fleeing  the police, and refusing to stop.  According  to Plaintiffs, “There is no possible way for Allen to use ‘reasonable care’  while leading the police on a high speed chase down surface streets.”  (Opposition p. 6.)  The  Court sustains Allen’s demurrer to this claim because Plaintiffs have not  alleged facts showing that Allen was engaged in an ultrahazardous activity when  he allegedly caused the accident.   B.   Allen’s motion to strike  1.    Paragraphs 21, 30, 40, 45, 53, and prayer  Paragraphs 21, 30, 40, 45, and 53 of the first amended  complaint allege that Plaintiffs’ damages are between $1 million and $50  million.  The prayer asks for “general  and specific damages in an amount to be proven at trial not to exceed  $50,000,000.”  “In actions for personal injury or wrongful death, the  amount of plaintiff’s damages claims ‘shall not be stated’ in the complaint.”  (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 6:279, p. 6-97, quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 425.10,  subd. (b).)  “Improper allegations of the  nature or amount of damages in an injury or death action render the complaint vulnerable  to a motion to strike.”  (Id., ¶  6:282, p. 6-97.)  Allen moves to strike from the complaint the  allegations concerning the amount of damages Plaintiffs are seeking.  Plaintiffs oppose the motion, arguing Greenup  v. Rodman (1986) 42 Cal.3d 822, 829, authorizes the allegations.  It does not.   The Court grants Allen’s motion to strike these allegations without  leave to amend.  2.    Paragraphs 31, 32, 46, 54, and prayer  Paragraphs  31, 32, 46, and 54 of the first amended complaint allege that “Defendants”  acted with malice, oppression, and fraud which justifies an award of punitive  damages against “Defendants.”  The prayer  requests “[e]xemplary and punitive damages according to proof as to Defendant  Allen only.”  Allen  argues the first amended complaint does not allege facts supporting a punitive  damage claim against him.  Plaintiffs  argue the punitive damage allegations are appropriate because they have pleaded  facts showing that Allen acted with conscious disregard of the probability of  injuring others.  The  Court grants the motion to strike the punitive damage allegations without leave to amend to the extent that the allegations apply to Plaintiffs’ negligence claim.  However,  the Court denies the motion to strike the punitive damages allegations from the  claim for intentional infliction of emotional distress because Plaintiffs have  pleaded facts showing that Allen’s conduct involved a conscious disregard of  the rights or safety of others.   The  Court denies as moot Allen’s motion to strike the punitive damages allegations from  the claim for engaging in ultrahazardous activities.  3.    Prayer for attorney’s fees  Allen  asks the Court to strike the prayer for attorney’s fees because Plaintiffs have  not pleaded facts showing the existence of a contractual or statutory basis for  fee recovery.  Plaintiffs ask the Court  to deny Allen’s request and give them an opportunity to determine whether a  basis for fee recovery exists.  The  Court strikes the request for attorney’s fees with leave to amend.  IV.           Campbell’s  motion to consolidate  Campbell  asks the Court to consolidate case numbers 22STCV11587, 23SMCV01086, and  23SMCV01411 for all purposes, including trial.   Campbell arguing the three cases arise from the same motor vehicle  accident on April 5, 2021.  Campbell  has complied with the procedural requirements for a motion to consolidate.  The  Court grants the motion and consolidates case  numbers 22STCV11587, 23SMCV01086, and 23SMCV01411 for all purposes, including  trial.   CONCLUSION  The Court SUSTAINS in part and OVERRULES in part  Defendant Dana Campbell’s demurrer to the first amended complaint filed by  Plaintiffs Steven Friedman and Janis Friedman as follows:  (1) The Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the negligence  claim. (2) The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the claim for  intentional infliction of emotional distress with 30 days leave to amend. (3) The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the claim for engaging  in ultrahazardous activity with 30 days leave to amend.   The Court GRANTS in part and DENIES in part Defendant  Dana Campbell’s motion to strike portions of the first amended complaint filed  by Plaintiffs Steven Friedman and Janis Friedman as follows: (1) The Court GRANTS the motion to strike the punitive  damages allegations (¶¶ 31, 32, 46, and 54) and strikes these allegations without leave to amend to the extent that they apply to  Defendant Dana Campbell. (2) The Court DENIES the motion to strike paragraph 17. (3) The Court DENIES the motion to strike the  allegations concerning damage amounts (¶¶ 21, 30, 40, 45, 53, and Prayer item  1). (4) The Court DENIES the motion to strike paragraph 28. (5) The Court DENIES the motion to strike paragraph 38. (6) The Court DENIES the motion to strike the attorney’s  fee request in the prayer.  The Court SUSTAINS in part and OVERRULES in part  Defendant Daniel Allen’s demurrer to the first amended complaint filed by  Plaintiffs Steven Friedman and Janis Friedman as follows: (1) The Court OVERRULES the demurrer to claim for  intentional infliction of emotional distress. (2) The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the claim for  engaging in ultrahazardous activity with 30 days leave to amend. The Court GRANTS in part and DENIES in part Defendant  Daniel Allen’s motion to strike portions of the first amended complaint filed  by Plaintiffs Steven Friedman and Janis Friedman as follows: (1) The Court GRANTS the motion to strike the allegations  concerning damages amounts (¶¶ 21, 30, 40, 45, 53, and Prayer item 1) and strikes these allegations without  leave to amend. (2) The Court GRANTS the motion to strike the punitive  damage allegations (¶¶ 31, 32, 46, 54, 53, and Prayer item 2) and strikes these allegations without leave to amend to the extent that they apply to Plaintiffs’ negligence claim. (3) The Court DENIES the motion to strike the punitive  damages allegations from the claim for intentional infliction of emotional  distress. (4)  The Court  DENIES as moot the motion to strike the punitive damages allegations from the  claim for engaging in ultrahazardous activities. (5)  The Court  GRANTS the motion to strike the prayer for attorney’s fees and strikes that portion of the prayer with 30 days leave  to amend.  The Court GRANTS Defendant Dana Campbell’s motion to consolidate  case numbers 22STCV11587, 23SMCV01086, and 23SMCV01411 for all purposes,  including trial.  Case number 22STCV11587  will remain the lead cases.  The cases are  assigned to Department 28 of the Spring Street Courthouse for all purposes.  Moving  parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.