..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the YAML summary of the Tentative Ruling:

```
Case Number: 23STCV12577
Plaintiff's Name: Myers Cocktail, Inc. USA and Myers, Cocktail, Inc. Canada
Defendant's Name: Glanbia Nutritionals, Inc.
People-Names: None mentioned
Company-Names: Glanbia Nutritionals, Inc., Myers Cocktail, Inc. USA, Myers, Cocktail, Inc. Canada
Places: Illinois, California, Chicago, Carlsbad, Corona, Wisconsin, Delaware
Dates: None mentioned
Events: None mentioned
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: None mentioned
Facts: The contract between Glanbia and Plaintiffs contains a clause stating that Illinois law shall govern the agreement. The contract also contains a disclaimer of implied warranties. Plaintiffs allege that Glanbia made misrepresentations and engaged in fraud and conspiracy to commit fraud.
Disputes: The dispute is about the jurisdiction and application of Illinois law, and whether the contract's disclaimer of implied warranties and the allegations of fraud and conspiracy are sufficient.
Acts: Glanbia demurred to the First Amended Complaint (FAC) on several grounds, including that the FAC does not state a cause of action under Illinois law, and that the allegations of fraud and conspiracy are insufficient.
Agreements: The contract between Glanbia and Plaintiffs contains a choice of law provision stating that Illinois law shall govern the agreement.
Laws: California's Unfair Competition Law (UCL), Illinois' Consumer Fraud and Deceptive Business Practices Act, Illinois' Uniform Commercial Code
Case Citations: Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, Khoury v. Maly's of Cal., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, Mahan v. Charles W. Chan Insurance Agency, Inc. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 841, Schifando v. City of Los Angeles (2004) 31 Cal.4th 1075, Krawitz v. Rusch (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 957, Nedlloyd Lines B.V. v. Superior Court (1992) 3 Cal.4th 459, Net2Phone, Inc. v. Superior Court (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 583, R.O.W. Window Co. v. Allmetal, Inc. (Ill. App. Ct. 2006) 367 Ill.App.3d 749, Chicago Steel Rule and Die Fabricators Co. v. ADT Sec. Systems, Inc. (Ill. App. Ct. 2002) 327 Ill.App.3d 642, Hirsch v. Optima, Inc. (Ill. App. Ct. 2009) 397 Ill.App.3d 102, Illinois State Bar Ass'n Mut. Ins. Co. v. Cavenagh (Ill. App. Ct. 2012) 983 N.E.2d 468
Statutes: California Code of Civil Procedure, Illinois Code of Civil Procedure, Illinois Statutes
Roles:
	* Judge: The judge is reviewing the demurrer to the First Amended Complaint and has sustained certain causes of action.
	* Plaintiff: The plaintiffs are seeking relief under California's Unfair Competition Law and alleging fraud and conspiracy to commit fraud.
	* Defendant: The defendant is seeking to dismiss the complaint based on the choice of law provision in the contract and the allegations of fraud and conspiracy.
Significant Statements:
	* The judge sustained the demurrer to the eleventh cause of action under California's UCL.
	* The judge sustained the demurrer to the fourth and fifth causes of action for breach of implied warranties with leave to amend.
	* The judge sustained the demurrer to the ninth and tenth causes of action for fraud and conspiracy to commit fraud with leave to amend.
```

And here is a summary of the tentative ruling in English text:

The judge has issued a tentative ruling on the demurrer filed by Glanbia Nutritionals, Inc. (Glanbia) to the First Amended Complaint (FAC) of Myers Cocktail, Inc. USA and Myers, Cocktail, Inc. Canada (Plaintiffs). The judge has sustained the demurrer to the eleventh cause of action under California's Unfair Competition Law (UCL) without leave to amend.

The judge has also sustained the demurrer to the fourth and fifth causes of action for breach of implied warranties with leave to amend. According to the contract between Glanbia and Plaintiffs, Illinois law shall govern the agreement, and the disclaimer of implied warranties in the contract is sufficient.

The judge has sustained the demurrer to the ninth and tenth causes of action for fraud and conspiracy to commit fraud with leave to amend. The allegations of fraud and conspiracy are insufficient because they do not identify the speakers who made the relevant representations, to whom they spoke, or by what means.

The judge's ruling is based on the court's analysis of the choice of law provision in the contract and the allegations of fraud and conspiracy. The judge has found that the contract's choice of law provision is valid and that the allegations of fraud and conspiracy are insufficient. The judge has given Plaintiffs leave to amend their complaint to cure the defects in their allegations.
