  Case Number:  20STCV42444    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  61 Plaintiff
Gergis Ghobrial’s Motion to Compel Deposition Answers and Document Production
of Lydia Iwasaki is DENIED. Sanctions are DENIED. 
 
Defendant to give notice.
 
I.                  
MOTION TO COMPEL
DEPOSITION ANSWERS
“If a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the
deponent's control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition
subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order
compelling that answer or production.” 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.480, subd. (a).) 
 
Plaintiff
Gergis Ghobrial (Plaintiff) moves to compel deposition answers and document
production from deponent Lydia Iwasaki (Iwasaki). Plaintiff seeks to compel
Iwasaki’s answer to a deposition question asking whether she personally
objected to the notice of deposition, to which her counsel objected and
instructed her not to answer, on the grounds it called for invasion of the
attorney-client privilege. (Motion at pp. 6–8.) Plaintiff also notes that the
defendant served only objections to the document requests, and produced no
documents at the deposition.
No order compelling responses is
necessary or proper. Deponents should generally “not be prevented by counsel from answering a
question unless it pertains to privileged matters or deposing counsel's conduct
has reached a stage where suspension is warranted.” (Stewart v. Colonial
Western Agency, Inc. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1015.) Plaintiff’s
questions concerning whether Iwasaki herself had objected to the deposition
notice facially called for privileged information, i.e. whether Iwasaki
instructed her attorney to object. (See Evid. Code § 952.) The
instruction to Iwasaki not to answer was therefore warranted.
No further response is also
necessary as to the document requests. Plaintiff relies on Code sections
applicable to requests for production to argue that Iwasaki’s responses were
inadequate, but a deponent need not respond to a deposition notice with the statements
of compliance or inability to comply applicable to requests for production sent
to a party opponent. (See Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2031.210, 2031.220
[requests for production]; 2025.410, 2025.480 [objections to deposition
notice].) Here, Plaintiff argues that no documents were produced, but Plaintiff
only questioned Iwasaki as to whether she was in possession of the policies of
the Palliative care department, to which she responded that she did not have
these policies. (Motion Exh. F at pp. 27–28.) Plaintiff presents no evidence
that documents are being withheld.
The motion is therefore DENIED. 