 Case Number:  23STCV12577    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  61 Defendant
Glanbia Nutritionals, Inc.’s Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is
SUSTAINED with 30 days leave to amend as to the fourth, fifth, ninth, and tenth
causes of action, for breach of implied warranties, fraud, and civil
conspiracy, and SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to the eleventh cause of
action under California’s UCL. 
 
Defendant to give notice.
 
I.                  
DEMURRER
A demurrer should be sustained only where the defects appear
on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Code Civ. Pro., §§
430.30, et seq.) In particular, as is
relevant here, a court should sustain a demurrer if a complaint does not allege
facts that are legally sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (See
id. § 430.10, subd. (e).) As the Supreme Court held in Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311:
“We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but
not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. . . . Further, we
give the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole and its
parts in their context.” (Id. at
p. 318; see also Hahn. v. Mirda
(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 [“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.
[Citation.]”) 
 
“In determining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer … if on consideration of all the facts stated it appears
the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of the court against the
defendants the complaint will be held good although the facts may not be
clearly stated.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
“A demurrer
for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some
respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of Cal., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.) Such demurrers “are disfavored,
and are granted only if the pleading is so incomprehensible that a defendant
cannot reasonably respond.” (Mahan v.
Charles W. Chan Insurance Agency, Inc. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 841, 848.)
 
A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if
the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any
theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by
amendment. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles, supra, 31 Cal.4th at p.
1081.) The demurrer also may be sustained without leave to amend where the
nature of the defects and previous unsuccessful attempts to plead render it
probable plaintiff cannot state a cause of action. (Krawitz v. Rusch
(1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 957, 967.)
 
Defendant Glanbia Nutritionals, Inc. (Glanbia) demurrers to
the First Amended Complaint (FAC) of Plaintiffs Myers Cocktail, Inc. USA and
Myers, Cocktail, Inc. Canada (Plaintiffs) on several grounds. It contends that under
their contract with Plaintiffs, their claims are governed by Illinois law,
which means Plaintiffs’ claim under California’s Unfair Competition Law must be
dismissed. (Demurrer at pp. 12–15.) It further argues that the contract
contains express waivers of implied warranties, meaning the fourth and fifth
causes of action based on implied warranties must also be dismissed. (Demurrer
at p. 8.) Finally, Glanbia argues that the ninth and tenth causes of action for
fraud and conspiracy to commit fraud ought to be dismissed because they are not
pleaded with sufficient particularity. (Demurrer at pp. 9–11.)
 
The contract with Glanbia indeed
contains a clause stating that the agreement’s “terms and conditions shall be
governed by and construed in accordance with Illinois law.” (FAC Exh. 2, ¶ 14.)
California’s approach to choice of laws analysis is stated in the case Nedlloyd
Lines B.V. v. Superior Court (1992) 3 Cal.4th 459. Under this authority,
the court must first determine “(1) whether the chosen state has a substantial
relationship to the parties or their transaction, or (2) whether there is any
other reasonable basis for the parties' choice of law.” (Id. at p. 466.) If either
test is met, “the court must next determine whether the chosen state's law is
contrary to a fundamental policy of California. If there is no such conflict,
the court shall enforce the parties' choice of law. If, however, there is a
fundamental conflict with California law, the court must then determine whether
California has a ‘materially greater interest than the chosen state in the
determination of the particular issue.’” (Id. at p. 466.) 
Here, there is a substantial relationship between at least
Glanbia and the state of Illinois, satisfying the first prong of the conflict
of laws test. The FAC alleges that Glanbia is an Illinois corporation with its
principal place of business in Chicago, albeit with offices also located in
Carlsbad and Corona, California. (FAC ¶¶ 3, 10.) Thus a substantial
relationship exists with Illinois. Although Plaintiffs contend that Glanbia was
actually incorporated in Delaware and has since relocated its principal place
of business to Wisconsin (Opposition RJN Exh. A), Glanbia presents authority
for the proposition that a subsequent assignment of a party’s claim to a party
without connection to the contract-designated state will not obviate the
substantial connection for the purposes of the choice of law inquiry. (Schmidt
v. Trinut Farm Management, Inc. (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 997, 1010.) The
situation here, involving a subsequent relocation rather than an assignment, is
analogous.
However, Plaintiffs argue that enforcing the choice of law
provision here would result in a conflict with a fundamental policy of
California law. Specifically, application of Illinois Law would require
application of Illinois’ unfair competition law, the Illinois Consumer Fraud
and Deceptive Business Practices Act (815 ILCS 505/1), which “applies only to
fraudulent transactions that take place “primarily and substantially” inside
Illinois.” (Barbara's Sales, Inc. v. Intel Corp. (2007) 227 Ill.2d 45,
63.) Plaintiff argues that the wrongful conduct alleged here occurred primarily
in California, specifically in Carlsbad and Corona, and as such relief would be
unavailable under both California’s UCL and Illinois’ consumer fraud statute. (Oppositional
t p. 6, citing FAC ¶¶ 12–15.) 
The available authority supports Glanbia’s position that no
fundamental policy is contradicted by applying Illinois law, even if it results
in the dismissal of Plaintiffs’ UCL claim. In the case Net2Phone, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 583, 590, the court upheld a forum
selection clause designating New Jersey as the proper forum in a UCL class
action, despite New Jersey law which would not allow the representative
plaintiff to prosecute the action in that state. (Id. at p. 589.) Where
the plaintiff attempted to analogize their claims to those under the CLRA, the
court reasoned: “[T]he CRLA contains a provision that voids any purported
waiver of rights as being contrary to California public policy. The UCL, under
which Consumer Cause brought this action, contains no such limitation.” (Id.
at p. 589.) Plaintiffs do not present any authority for the proposition that
Illinois’ restriction of its consumer fraud ordinance to fraudulent
transactions in Illinois is in conflict with California law.
The demurrer is therefore SUSTAINED without leave to amend
as to the eleventh cause of action under the UCL.
Glanbia also demurrers to the fourth and fifth causes of
action for implied warranties. Illinois law permits conspicuous, written
disclaimers of the implied warranties of fitness and merchantability. (810 ILCS
§ 5/2-316, subd. (2).) The “conspicuousness” determination is made “by asking
if attention can reasonably be expected to be called to the term or clause.” (R.O.W.
Window Co. v. Allmetal, Inc. (Ill. App. Ct. 2006) 367 Ill.App.3d 749, 753.)
The disclaimer of implied warranties here is in all capital, bolded letters,
under a section heading that states in bold “Limited Warranty,” and which
specifically disclaims implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a
particular purpose. (FAC Exh. 2, § 9.2.) 
Plaintiffs’ argument in opposition is unpersuasive, and
relies not on authority applicable to warranty disclaimers under the Uniform
Commercial Code (which the applicable Illinois statute enacts (See R.O.W.,
supra, 367 Ill.App.3d at p. 753)) but rather to exculpatory clauses
seeking to limit liability for negligence damages. (Opposition at p. 9, citing Chicago
Steel Rule and Die Fabricators Co. v. ADT Sec. Systems, Inc. (Ill. App. Ct.
2002) 327 Ill.App.3d 642, 651.) No such clause it at issue here.
The demurrer is therefore SUSTAINED with leave to amend as
to the fourth and fifth causes of action for breach of implied warranties. 
This leaves the claims for fraud and conspiracy to commit
fraud. In Illinois, as in California, a fraud claim must be pleaded with
“particularity,” and “[t]he pleadings must contain specific allegations from
which fraud is the necessary or probable inference, including what
representations were made, when they were made, who made the representations,
and to whom they were made.” (Hirsch v. Optima, Inc. (Ill. App. Ct.
2009) 397 Ill.App.3d 102, 117.) Here, however, the FAC includes no
identification of the speakers who made the relevant representations, to whom
they spoke, or by what means, and only relates the alleged misrepresentations
by reference to the corporate identities of the defendants. (FAC ¶¶ 19,
24, 26–27, 31, 49.) This is insufficient. 
By the same reasoning, Plaintiffs’
claim for conspiracy also fails. In Illinois, as in California, civil
conspiracy is “not an independent tort,” and where “a plaintiff fails to
state an independent cause of action underlying [the] conspiracy allegations,
the claim for a conspiracy also fails.”
(Illinois
State Bar Ass'n Mut. Ins. Co. v. Cavenagh (Ill. App. Ct. 2012) 983 N.E.2d
468, 481.) Thus the tenth cause of action fails with the ninth cause of action
for fraud. 
 
The
demurrer is therefore SUSTAINED with leave to amend as to the ninth and tenth
causes of action.
 