  Case Number:  23SMCV05954    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Doe v. The Frederick P. Lenz
Foundation, Case no. 23SMCV05954
Hearing date December 17, 2024
Defendant
Frederick P. Lenz Foundation’s Demurrer to the FAC with Motion to Strike
Plaintiff
Jane Doe sues defendant The Frederick P. Lenz Foundation for American Buddhism (“Foundation”)
under a successor in interest theory for damages arising from an alleged rape
by decedent Lenz. Defendant Foundation demurs and moves to strike portions of
the FAC asserting plaintiff’s successor-in-interest theory, as well as the
prayer for punitive damages and fees.
Defendant’s Request for Judicial
Notice
Defendant
requests judicial notice of the certificate of dissolution issued by Lakshmi,
Inc. filed with the California Secretary of State 4/15/87. Cal. Evid. Code
§452(c) permits judicial notice of administrative government records. GRANTED.
Defendant’s Demurrer to the FAC
“The
function of a demurrer is to test the sufficiency of the complaint as a matter
of law.” Holiday Matinee, Inc. v. Rambus, Inc. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th
1413, 1420. A complaint “is sufficient if it alleges ultimate rather than
evidentiary facts,” Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531,
550, but plaintiff must allege essential facts “with reasonable precision and
with particularity sufficient to acquaint [the] defendant with the nature,
source and extent” of the plaintiff’s claim. Doheny Park Terrace Homeowners
Ass’n., Inc. v. Truck Ins. Exchange (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 1076, 1099.
Defendant
Foundation demurs to the sole COA for cover-up of sexual assault. Defendant
argues the claim is time-barred because Code Civ. Proc. §340.16’s revival is
inapplicable. Section 340.16 provides the statutes of limitation applicable to
certain claims for “recovery of damages as a result of sexual assault.” Section
§340.16(e) revives claims where plaintiff alleges defendant “engaged in a
cover-up or attempted a cover-up of a previous instance or allegations of
sexual assault by an alleged perpetrator of such abuse.”
Defendant
Foundation argues it did not exist when the alleged rape occurred, so could not
have covered up any assault. Plaintiff alleges Lakshmi, Inc., as alter-ego to
Lenz, covered up sexual assault. FAC para. 19. Plaintiff alleges Lakshmi, Inc.
subsequently dissolved and transferred Lenz’s assets to Rama Seminars. Id.
Plaintiff alleges Rama Seminars subsequently transferred to InterGlobal
Seminars. FAC para. 21. Plaintiff alleges InterGlobal Seminars then transferred
to Infinity Plus Consulting. FAC para. 22. Plaintiff alleges Lenz’s assets
transferred to defendant Foundation following Lenz’s death in 1998. FAC para.
23. 
Defendant
argues plaintiff’s allegations do not trigger alter-ego or
successor-in-interest liability. This is unavailing; on demurrer stage, all
allegations must be taken as true. Doe, supra. Plaintiff alleged
Lenz committed sexual assault and Lakshmi, as Lenz’s alter-ego, covered it up.
Plaintiff alleged defendant is the successor-in-interest to Lakshmi, via the
various transfers. These allegations are sufficient to survive demurrer. 
Defendant
argues plaintiff cannot establish liability even if defendant is a
successor-in-interest. Plaintiff alleged respondeat superior liability via
ratification. FAC paras. 18, 33. Plaintiff also alleges defendant’s managing
agent covered up the sexual assault. FAC paras. 25-28. These allegations are
sufficient on demurrer.
Defendant
argues plaintiff originally alleged Lenz, not Rama Seminars, assumed Lakshmi’s
liabilities and assets. Compl. para. 23. Defendant argues plaintiff’s current
allegations are contrary to the original pleadings, so constitute a sham
pleading. Plaintiff alleged alter-ego theories of liability against each
corporation from Lakshmi to defendant Foundation. The current allegations are
not contrary to previous pleadings; they clarify the chain of alleged transfers
of assets between Lenz and the alleged subsequent alter-egos. OVERRULED.
Defendant’s Motion to Strike
A
motion to strike permits the court to “[s]trike out any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading.” Code Civ. Proc. §436(a); see also
Garcia v. Sterling (1985) 176 Cal.App.3d 17, 20. Motions to strike can
reach pleading defects that are not challengeable by demurrer, including
conclusory allegations and substantive defects affecting only a portion of a
claim. See, e.g., PH II, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1680,
1682. They are also the appropriate means to attack requests for punitive
damages or other relief not supported by adequate facts alleged. Turman v.
Turning Point of Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63-64.
Defendant
Foundation moves to strike the successor-in-interest allegations as sham
pleadings. As addressed above, the FAC does not constitute a sham pleading.
Plaintiff’s conclusions regarding asset transfer and liability remain the same;
plaintiff merely clarified the series of incorporations and transfers that allegedly
give rise to liability. 
Defendant
moves to strike allegations of secondary liability as improper because
defendant did not exist at the time of the alleged wrongdoing. This is
unavailing; plaintiff alleged successor-in-interest, alter ego and respondeat
superior theories of liability implicating moving defendant.
Defendant
moves to strike the prayer for punitive damages under Code Civ. Proc. §§377.42
and 425.14. Defendant argues it is a religious corporation and, as such,
plaintiff must have leave of court prior to requesting punitive damages. This
argument is unavailing; for a corporate defendant to avail itself of the
protections of §425.14, it must be a religious corporation or a religious
corporation sole, which are particular corporate designations with the
California Secretary of State. As defendant is neither, the protections do not
apply. Plaintiff alleged a cover-up of sexual assault; this is sufficient to
establish malice and oppression for purposes of pleading punitive damages. Turman,
supra at 63.
Defendant
moves to strike the request for attorney’s fees under Code Civ. Proc. §1021.5. Lawsuits
whose primary effect is to vindicate personal rights and economic interests do
not qualify for section 1021.5 fee awards, even if they also “‘sen[d] a
message’” that the conduct at issue will not be tolerated. Flannery v.
California Highway Patrol (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 629, 636-637. Plaintiff
argues striking the prayer for fees would be premature, as plaintiff has not
moved for fees. This argument is unavailing; plaintiff seeks financial
renumeration for a personal tort. See Weeks v. Baker & McKenzie
(1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1170-71. 
Defendant
moves to strike the allegations of an indemnification agreement between
defendant and the executor of Lenz’s estate as irrelevant. Plaintiff offers no
opposition. This allegation is irrelevant and will be stricken. 
GRANTED
in part as to attorney’s fees and references to the indemnification agreement.