 Case Number:  24SMCV01601    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Hamilton v. Regents of the
University of California, Case no. 24SMCV01601
Hearing date December 17, 2024
Defendants’
Demurrer to the FAC
Plaintiff
Hamilton sues defendants Regents of the University of California, University of
California Police Department and Officers Salazar, Amezcua and Carrillo for
civil rights violations arising from plaintiff’s arrest by defendant officers. Defendants
Regents and University of California Police Department previously demurred,
claiming immunity. Defendants separately demurred to the complaint’s first
three COAs for battery and violations of the Bane and Ralphs Acts. The court
overruled as to immunity and sustained as to the first three causes of action,
with leave to amend. See Min. Order 8/8/24. 
Defendants Regents and the officers now demur to the first COA for
violation of the Bane Act. Salazar further demurs to the fifth COA for
violation of the Ralph Act.
“The
function of a demurrer is to test the sufficiency of the complaint as a matter
of law.” Holiday Matinee, Inc. v. Rambus, Inc. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th
1413, 1420. A complaint “is sufficient if it alleges ultimate rather than
evidentiary facts,” Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531,
550, but plaintiff must allege essential facts “with reasonable precision and
with particularity sufficient to acquaint [the] defendant with the nature,
source and extent” of the plaintiff’s claim. Doheny Park Terrace Homeowners
Ass’n., Inc. v. Truck Ins. Exchange (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 1076, 1099.
The
Bane Act provides a civil remedy for persons whose exercise of constitutional
rights have been interfered with by threats, intimidation or coercion. Cal.
Civ. Code §52.1. Defendants argue plaintiff fails to allege wrongful conduct
other than the alleged wrongful arrest itself. “A wrongful arrest and
detention, without more, cannot constitute ‘force, intimidation, or coercion’
for purposes of section 52.1.” Shoyoye v. County of Los Angeles (2012)
203 Cal.App.4th 947, 960. Plaintiff argues the Bane Act does not require a
showing of threats, intimidation, or coercion separate and distinct from the
underlying constitutional violation. Bender v. County of Los Angeles (
2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 968, 971. Bender is inapplicable; plaintiff Bender
brought suit not only for unlawful detention but also physical abuse, which the
court found sufficient in combination. Id. Plaintiff must allege force,
intimidation or coercion separate from the arrest to state a claim under the
Bane Act. 
Here,
plaintiff alleges defendants “by threat, intimidation and/or coercion,
interfered with Plaintiff’s right under Article 1, Section 7 of the California
Constitution and the Federal Constitution, in that they detained and arrested
him without probable cause and without a warrant, and this was done after
Plaintiff exercised his legal rights while speaking with defendants officers.”
FAC para. 20. The only allegations of force, intimidation or coercion arise
directly from plaintiff’s arrest; this is insufficient.
The
Ralph Act states: “all persons within…this state have the right to be free from
any violence, or intimidation by threat of violence, committed against their
persons or property because of political affiliation, or on account of any
characteristics listed.” Cal. Civ. Code §51.7(a). Plaintiff alleges defendants
“used unreasonable force in placing the handcuffs on plaintiff’s wrists,
especially considering that Plaintiff was cooperating” and Salazar issued “a
coercive order for plaintiff to remain with defendant officers.” FAC para. 13.
Plaintiff alleges Salazar acted with anti-Black racial animus. FAC para. 11.
Plaintiff fails to allege violence or the threat of violence. Subjective belief
that an act was motivated by racism does not satisfy the Ralph Act. Gomez v.
City of Fremont (N.D. Cal. 2010) 730 F.Supp.2d 1056, 1069.
Despite
being given leave to amend to allege force, intimidation or coercion in support
of the Bane and Ralph Act violation allegations, plaintiff still fails to do so.
It does not appear plaintiff is able to cure these deficiencies. SUSTAINED without
leave to amend.