 Case Number:  21PSCV00617    Hearing Date:   August 12, 2024    Dept:  G Defendants Fleet Capital, Inc., Sam Ostayan, and Inco Builders’  Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication Respondent: Plaintiff Diana  Culkin Plaintiff Diana Culkin’s  Motion to Quash Non-Monetary Status Respondent: Defendant Best  Alliance Foreclosure and Lien Services Corp. TENTATIVE RULING The Motion for Summary Judgment filed by Defendants  Fleet Capital, Inc., Sam Ostayan, and Inco Builders is GRANTED IN PART as to  the first, second, and seventh causes of action against Defendants Inco  Builders and Sam Ostayan and DENIED IN PART on all other grounds. Plaintiff Diana Culkin’s  Motion to Quash Non-Monetary Status is DENIED. BACKGROUND This  is a wrongful foreclosure action. On July 30, 2021, Plaintiff Diana Culkin,  also known as Diana Jannette Marmolejo Corona, filed a complaint against  Defendants Fleet Capital, Inc. (Fleet Capital), Best Alliance Foreclosure and  Lien Services Corp. (Best Alliance), Inco Builders (Inco), and Does 1-25,  alleging the following causes of action: (1) violation of California’s non  judicial foreclosure statutes, (2) wrongful foreclosure, (3) conversion, (4)  unfair business practices, and (5) declaratory relief. On  February 9, 2022, Inco filed a cross-complaint against Culkin, Michael Culkin,  and Roes 1-10, alleging the following causes of action: (1) trespass and (2)  slander of title. On  February 23, 2022, Fleet Capital and Inco filed a motion for judgment on the  pleadings as to the Complaint. On August 4, 2022, the court granted the motion  with leave to amend. On  October 7, 2022, Culkin filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) against the same  defendants and Sam Ostayan, alleging the following causes of action: (1)  violation of California’s nonjudicial foreclosure statutes, (2) wrongful  foreclosure, (3) quiet title, (4) unfair business practices, and (5)  declaratory relief. On January 5, 2023, the court sustained a demurrer to the  FAC by Fleet Capital, Inco, and Ostayan. On  February 24, 2023, the court denied Fleet Capital and Inco’s motion to dismiss  Culkin’s action for failure to file a timely amended complaint and deemed  Culkin’s Second Amended Complaint (SAC) filed as of that date. The SAC is  against the same defendants and alleges the following causes of action: (1)  violation of California’s nonjudicial foreclosure statutes, (2) wrongful  foreclosure, (3) quiet title, (4) promissory estoppel, (5) breach of the  covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (6) violation of the Rosenthal Fair  Debt Collection Practices Act, (7) unfair business practices, and (8)  declaratory relief. On  April 24, 2023, Culkin and Best Alliance entered into a stipulation with  regards to Best Alliance’s nonmonetary status. On  May 4, 2023, the court sustained a demurrer and granted a motion to strike by  Fleet Capital, Inco, and Ostayan as to the SAC. As a result, the operative SAC now  alleges the remaining causes of action: (1) violation of California’s  nonjudicial foreclosure statutes against Fleet Capital, Best Alliance, and  Ostayan; (2) wrongful foreclosure against Fleet Capital, Best Alliance,  Ostayan, and Inco; (3) quiet title against Best Alliance and Inco; (4) breach  of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing against Best Alliance; (6) violation of the Rosenthal  Fair Debt Collection Practices Act against Best Alliance; (7) unfair business  practices against Fleet Capital, Best Alliance, and Ostayan; and (8) declaratory relief  against Best Alliance. On May  21, 2024, Fleet Capital, Ostayan, and Inco (collectively, Defendants) filed the  present motion for summary judgment or adjudication. On  July 10, 2024, Culkin filed the present motion to quash. A  hearing on the present motions is set for August 12, 2024, along with a trial  setting conference and case management conference on September 4, 2024. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE Defendants  ask the court to take judicial notice of seven (7) documents: (1) a grant deed  recorded May 2, 2018, (2) a grant deed recorded January 14, 2019, (3) a notice  of default and election to sell under deed of trust recorded February 17, 2021,  (4) a notice of trustee sale recorded May 20, 2021, (5) a trustee’s deed upon  sale recorded June 22, 2021, (6) this court’s January 5, 2023 ruling on  Defendants’ demurrer to Culkin’s FAC, and (7) this court’s May 4, 2023 ruling  on Defendants’ demurrer to Culkin’s SAC. The  existence and factual contents of documents including recorded deeds of trust,  notices of default and trustee’s sale, and trustee’s deeds upon sale can be  noticed under Evidence Code sections 452, subdivisions (c) and (h), and section  453. (Yvanova v. New Century Mortgage Corp., 62 Cal.4th 919, 924, fn.  1.) Furthermore, the court may take judicial notice of its own rulings. (Evid.  Code, § 452, subd. (d).) Accordingly,  Defendants’ requests are GRANTED. EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS Defendants’  objections to Culkin’s evidence are SUSTAINED as to Nos. 1, 2, and 3. To  the extent the court treats Culkin’s motion to quash Luis Alvarado’s  declaration of mailing filed in support Defendants’ motion for summary judgment  as an objection, the court finds Culkin has failed to articulate a legal basis  for such an objection. MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR ADJUDICATION Defendants  move for summary judgment or summary adjudication of Culkin’s remaining causes  of action on the grounds that it is undisputed (1) Defendants gave timely  notice of the notice of the default and (2) Culkin did not tender funds prior  to the foreclosure sale. For the following reasons, the Court GRANTS their motion in part as to  the first, second, and seventh causes of action against Ostayan and Inco and DENIES their motion on all other  grounds. Legal Standard A  motion for summary judgment or adjudication provides “courts with a mechanism  to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite  their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar  v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) It must be granted  “if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from  the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that  there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is  entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.  (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119, quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)  To establish a triable issue of material fact, the opposing party must produce  substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68  Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of  the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence  in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39  Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿ “A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if  it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim  for damages, or an issue of duty.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) Discussion Here,  the gravamen of Culkin’s first cause of action for violation of California’s  nonjudicial foreclosure statutes, second cause of action for wrongful  foreclosure, third cause of action for quiet title, and seventh cause of action  for unfair business practices is the claim that Defendants improperly  foreclosed on a property located at 20556 Rancho La Foresta Road, Covina,  California 91724 (Covina Property). Culkin’s  first cause of action alleges Defendants committed the following violations: (1)  recording a notice of default when no default occurred (SAC, ¶ 52); (2) failing  to provide proper notice of sums due pursuant to Civil Code section 2966 (SAC,  ¶ 53, 58, 59, 63); (3) failing to sufficiently contact Culkin in person or by  telephone before filing notice of default pursuant to Civil Code section 2923.5  (SAC, ¶ 54); (4) failing to provide notice of assignment pursuant to Civil Code  section 2932.5 (SAC, ¶ 66); (5) failing to provide notice of default pursuant  to Civil Code section 2924b, subdivision (c)(1) (SAC, ¶ 75, 78); and (6)  improperly notarizing the trustee’s deed upon sale pursuant to Government Code  section 8224 (SAC, ¶ 79.) The court previously found the second, third, fourth,  and sixth allegations were inapplicable and failed as a matter of law. (05/04/2023  Notice of Ruling, 7-8.) Culkin’s  second cause of action alleges the non-judicial foreclosure of the Covina  Property was wrongful and should be set aside on the grounds alleged in the  first cause of action. (SAC, ¶ 86-89.) Culkin also alleges the foreclosure was  wrongful as Defendants rejected Culkin’s attempt to tender payment. (SAC, ¶  91.) Culkin’s remaining causes of action for quiet title and unfair business  practices are derivative of Culkin’s first two causes of action as both are  based on the same allegations of wrongful foreclosure. (SAC, ¶ 99-100, 128-129,  131-132.) Thus,  the court finds the only remaining issues as framed by the pleadings are: (1) whether Culkin defaulted as stated in the notice  of default, (2) whether the notice of default was properly  noticed, and (3) whether Culkin adequately tendered payment prior  to foreclosure. As  to the first issue, it is undisputed Best Alliance recorded a notice of default  and election to sell under deed of trust against the Covina Property on  February 17, 2021. (Defendants’ Separate Statement (DSS), ¶ 5; RJN, Ex. 3.) The  notice states it is based on Culkin’s failure to pay $7,357.51 as of February  10, 2021. (RJN, Ex. 3, p. 2.) It further states that payment has not been made  of the following: “INSTALLMENT OF PRINCIPAL AND/OR INTEREST WHICH BECAME  DUE 6/2/2018; PLUS ALL LATE CHARGES AND ADVANCES AS SET FORTH IN SAID NOTE AND  DEED OF TRUST, PLUS ALL SUBSEQUENT INSTALLMENTS OF PRINCIPAL, INTEREST, DEFAULT  INTEREST, ENFORCEMENT COSTS AND CHARGES, COLLECTION COSTS AND CHARGES,  IMPOUNDS, CHARGES, ADVANCES, LATE CHARGES, OBLIGATIONS AND INDEBTEDNESS AS THEY  BECOME DUE, AND TRUSTEE'S FEES AND COSTS PURSUANT TO SAID NOTE AND DEED OF  TRUST, LESS CREDITS AND/OR OFFSETS. REINSTATEMENT WILL REQUIRE ALL SENIOR  LIENS, PROPERTY TAXES, AND HAZARD INSURANCE (NAMING LENDER AS AN INSURED) TO BE  IN A CURRENT AND PAID STATUS AND RELIABLE WRITTEN EVIDENCE CONFIRMING IT.”  (RJN, Ex. 3, p. 3.) But  while Defendants have established it is undisputed that they recorded a notice  of default against Culkin for failing to make installment payments, they failed  to establish Culkin’s failure to do so actually constituted a breach of the  underlying promissory note and deed of trust. In fact, a copy of the promissory  note and deed of trust at issue were not included in Defendants’ evidence or  cited to in Defendants’ separate statement. Instead, Defendants appear to rely  on the allegations of the SAC. (DSS, ¶ 2.) On April 10, 2018, the SAC alleges  Culkin Construction executed a promissory note for a $37,500.00 loan that was  secured by a deed of trust recorded against the Covina Property on May 2, 2018.  (SAC, ¶ 9(c), (d).) The holders of the note allegedly represented to Culkin  that the principal would not become due until Culkin sold or refinanced the  Covina Property, whichever came first. (SAC, ¶ 10.) The note also allegedly  included language stating it was subject to the provisions of Civil Code  section 2966 and failed to include any payment schedule. (SAC, ¶ 12.) After the  note allegedly expired on its terms in July 2018, Culkin allegedly entered into  a forbearance agreement with the note holders. (SAC, ¶ 11.) Based  on these allegations, it does not appear the note required installment payments,  but instead required a single balloon payment to be made by the time the  agreement expired in July 2018 or by the time Culkin sold or refinanced the  property, whichever occurred first. It is well established that foreclosure  proceedings may only be initiated for the grounds explicitly stated in the  notice for default. (Miller v. Cote (1982) 127 Cal.App.3d 888, 894 [“[A]ppellants  are bound by their notice of default; they cannot assert any ground of default  other than that stated in the notice.”].) And when the grounds stated in the  notice of default do not constitute a default, the subsequent foreclosure  proceedings are defective and improper. (See id., at p. 896 [holding  trial court could enjoin pending foreclosure sale due to fatally defective  notice of default].) Here, because there is a triable issue of fact with regards  to whether Culkin was required to make installment payments, a triable issue of  fact also exists with regards to whether there was a proper basis for the  notice of default that triggered the nonjudicial foreclosure proceedings at  issue. Thus, the court finds Defendant Fleet is not entitled to summary  judgment or summary adjudication of these causes of action. As  to Ostayan and Inco, the SAC alleges Fleet and Inco are each the alter ego of  Ostayan. (SAC, ¶ 5.) “Two requirements must be met to invoke the alter ego  doctrine: (1) ‘[T]here must be such a unity of interest and ownership  between the corporation and its equitable owner that the separate personalities  of the corporation and the shareholder do not in reality exist’; and (2) ‘there  must be an¿inequitable result¿if the acts in question are treated as  those of the corporation alone.’” (Turman v. Superior Court of Orange County  (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 969, 980-981, quoting Sonora Diamond Corp. v.  Superior Court (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 523, 538.) “Factors a trial court may  consider when deciding unity of interest and whether the fiction of a separate  existence would promote fraud and injustice include the following: ‘Commingling  of funds and other assets . . . ; the treatment by an individual of the assets  of the corporation as his own [citations]; . . . the failure to maintain . . . adequate  corporate records . . . ; . . .  sole  ownership of all of the stock in a corporation by ... the members of a family  [citations]; . . .  the use of a  corporation as a mere shell, instrumentality or conduit for a single venture or  the business of an individual . . .  ; .  . .  [the] concealment of personal  business activities [citations]; the use of the corporate entity to procure  labor, services or merchandise for another person or entity [citations]; . . .  or the use of a corporation as a subterfuge of  illegal transactions.” (Ming-Hsiang Kao v. Holiday (2020) 58 Cal.App.5th  199, 206, quoting Associated Vendors, Inc. v. Oakland Meat Co. (1962)  210 Cal.App.2d 825, 838-840.) Here,  Defendants point to the following material facts. In a declaration, Ostayan  states Ostayan, Fleet, and Inco each maintain separate bank accounts, business  transactions, assets, and debts. (DSS, ¶ 31; Ostayan Decl., ¶ 7.) Ostayan also  stated that at all times relevant, Ostayan acted as an officer for Fleet or  Inco. (DSS, ¶ 32-33.) In opposition, Culkin failed to dispute these facts with admissible  evidence. As a result, the court finds there are no triable issues of material  fact that establish Inco and Fleet were Ostayan’s alter egos. Since the SAC  bases Ostayan and Inco’s liability solely on Fleet’s actions, Ostayan and Inco  are entitled to summary judgment on the first, second, and seventh causes of  action. Last,  as to the third cause of action for quiet title against Inco, Defendants argue  this cause of action fails because it is undisputed Culkin failed to tender  full payment of the debt before the sale of the Covina Property. (Motion, p.  12:20-28.) “[A] plaintiff seeking to quiet title in the face of a foreclosure  must allege tender or an offer of tender of the amount borrowed.” (Mangindin  v. Washington Mut. Bank (N.D. Cal. 2009) 637 F.Supp.2d 700, 712.) The  tender requirement is excused, however, “when the borrower is not in default  and there is no basis for the foreclosure.” (Turner v. Seterus, Inc. (2018)  27 Cal.App.5th 516, 526, quoting 5 Miller & Starr, Cal. Real Estate (4th  ed. 2017) § 13:256, pp. 13-1101 to 13-1102.) As acknowledged above, the court  has found that a dispute of material fact exists with regard to whether Culkin  was in default by failing to make installment payments. Thus, the court finds  that this argument fails, and Inco is not entitled to summary judgment or summery  adjudication on this ground. Accordingly,  Defendants’ motion is GRANTED as to the first, second, and seventh causes of  action against Inco and Ostayan and DENIED on all other grounds. MOTION TO QUASH NON-MONETARY STATUS Culkin  moves to quash the stipulation between Best Alliance and Culkin that recognizes  Best Alliance’s nonmonetary status pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section  473. But while Culkin seems to be arguing that the court should revisit its  prior ruling where it “granted” a stipulation in favor of Best Alliance  (Motion, p. 2:1-4), the court notes it did not make a finding of non-monetary  status. Instead, the court merely approved a stipulation wherein Culkin,  through counsel, agreed not to object to Best Alliance’s nonmonetary status. Culkin  does not point to any authority that allows Culkin to unilaterally withdraw from  the agreement. Nor does Culkin establish that Culkin was unaware of Best  Alliance’s alleged involvement before Culkin entered into the stipulation. Accordingly,  Culkin’s motion is DENIED. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the court  GRANTS IN PART Defendants’ motion for summary judgment or summary  adjudication as to the first, second, and seventh causes of action against Inco  and Ostayan and DENIES it on all other grounds. Furthermore, the court DENIES  Culkin’s motion to quash Best Alliance’s nonmonetary status.