  Case Number:  22STCV38729    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



LEOBARDO
  SEGURA-MEZA and MIRIAN SANCHEZ, 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
AGOURA HILLS MARBLE AND GRANITE, INC.,
  et al., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV38729
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION FOR LEAVE
  TO FILE THIRD AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
 
Date: July 16, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs
Leobardo Segura-Meza (“Segura-Meza”) and Mirian Sanchez (“Sanchez”)
RESPONDING PARTY: None
 
The
Court has considered the moving papers. No opposition papers were filed. Any
opposition papers were required to have been filed and served at least nine
court days prior to the hearing pursuant to CCP § 1005(b).   
 
BACKGROUND
            Plaintiffs
filed this personal injury action on December 13, 2022, claiming injuries and
damages as a result of Plaintiff Segura-Meza’s silicosis-related lung
disease.  Prior to service on any of the
defendants named, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint (the “FAC”) on
March 2, 2023.  On October 12, 2023, the
Court sustained defendants’ demurrer to the FAC, with leave to amend.  On November 21, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a
Second Amended Complaint (the “SAC”).  
 
On June 6, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a
Motion (the “Motion”) for Leave to File Third Amended Complaint (the “TAC”).  No opposition was filed to the Motion.
 
DISCUSSION 
The trial court has discretion to allow amendments to pleadings in the
furtherance of justice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).) Any judge, at
any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice,
and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any pleading. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 576.) There is a policy of great liberality in permitting
amendments to the pleadings at any stage of the proceeding. (Berman v.
Bromberg (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 936, 945.) An application to amend a
pleading is addressed to the trial judge’s sound discretion. (Ibid.)  
 
California Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1324(b) requires that a motion to amend a pleading before trial must
include a separate declaration specifying: (1) the effect of the amendment; (2)
why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to
the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request
for amendment was not made earlier. The Court finds that the Declaration of
Daniel J. Morse (“Morse”) filed in support of the Motion satisfies this
statutory requirement.
 
 
 
Issue No. 1: Appropriateness of Granting Leave to
Amend 
             Attorney Morse declares that the 35
newly-identified defendants have been added to the TAC and that the allegations
contained in the proposed TAC are based upon the same facts in the original and
SACs.  Attorney Morse declares that the
filing of the TAC would be necessary and proper to allow Plaintiffs to allege
all claims for their silica-related injuries and damages, to present all
theories of liability and to include all defendants, and that it was first
realized that the newly-identified defendants had been missed as defendants
during a “recent file review after ongoing investigation and discovery” and
that he “promptly prepared and filed this motion.”  (Morse Declaration, ¶¶ 4-7, inclusive.)  Plaintiffs have attached the proposed TAC as
Attachment B to the Morse Declaration. 
 
Plaintiffs have complied with
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324. The Motion is also unopposed which
leads to an inference that it is meritorious. (Sexton v. Superior Court (1997)
58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.) 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, the Motion is GRANTED, on the condition that Plaintiff file
and serve the proposed Second Amended Complaint within five court days of the
date of this order so that it becomes an operative pleading in this
action.  Should any defendant choose to
stipulate with Plaintiffs to apply its answer to the original complaint or to
the SAC to the TAC, such stipulation should be filed with the Court so that the
Court is aware of the status of responsive pleadings.
 
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 16th day of July 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



