 Case Number:  23CHCV03653    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 3/19/24
Case #23CHCV03653
 
DEMURRER TO THE
ORIGINAL COMPLAINT
 
Demurrer filed on 1/10/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Tanya L’Heureux, Administrator of
the Estate of Scott S. Emling
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Charles Yazbeck
NOTICE: ok
 
Demurrer is to the entire complaint: 
            1.  Specific Performance
            2.  Breach of Contract
 
RULING: The demurrer is sustained without leave to
amend.  
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out Decedent Scott S. Emling’s
(Decedent who died on 12/20/21) alleged promise to leave his entire estate to
Plaintiff Charles Yazbeck (Plaintiff) in exchange for Plaintiff taking care of
Decedent.
 
On 2/22/22, Defendant Tanya L’Heureux, Administrator of
the Estate of Scott S. Emling (Defendant), Decedent’s niece, filed a Petition
to Administer the estate of Decedent.  On
4/8/22, Defendant became the administrator of Decedent’s estate.  (RJN, Ex.A, B).
 
In July 2022, Plaintiff filed a competing petition and
recorded a lis pendens on the estate real property preventing Defendant from
administering the estate.  (RJN, Ex.C,
D).  On 10/24/23, Defendant filed a Will
Contest to challenge the validity of the alleged will.  (RJN, Ex.E). 
On 11/29/23, the Honorable Ruben Garcia granted Defendant’s Motion to Expunge
Lis Pendens and Request for Attorney’s Fees and Costs.  (RJN, Ex.F). 

 
On 12/1/23, Plaintiff filed this action against Defendant
for Specific Performance and Breach of Contract.   On
12/2/23, Plaintiff recorded another lis pendens in relation to this
action.  (RJN, Ex.G).  After meet and confer efforts failed to
resolve the issues Defendant had with the complaint, on 1/10/24, Defendant
filed and served the instant demurrer to the entire complaint.  The Court notes that although the hearing was
reserved as a demurrer with motion to strike, a motion to strike has not been
filed.  On 2/5/24, Plaintiff filed (served
on 2/3/24) an opposition to the demurrer. 

 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice (RJN) is
granted.  
 
A demurrer may be based on the grounds, among others,
that there is another action pending between the same
parties on the same cause of action and the pleading fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
CCP 430.10(c), (e).  
 
The complaint concedes that in compliance with his
alleged promise to leave his estate to Plaintiff, Decedent allegedly executed a
Will wherein he left his entire estate, including all personal and real
property to Plaintiff.  (See
Complaint ¶¶7-9 and Ex.A thereto).  The
complaint also concedes that the alleged Will is the contract which forms the
basis of Plaintiff’s claims.  (Complaint
¶¶9, 25, 31, 37, 40 and Ex.A thereto).  Additionally,
Plaintiff concedes that Defendant has been appointed administrator of
Decedent’s estate and claims that Defendant has failed to honor the will.  (Complaint ¶¶4, 21, 26).  
 
The judicially noticed facts further establish that the validity
of the same Will/contract at issue in this action are the subject of the earlier
filed probate action between the same parties. 
(RJN, Ex.A-G).  
 
The instant case is distinguishable from Estate of
Mullins (1988) 206 CA3d 924 relied on by Plaintiff in the opposition.  There, the petitioner was not a beneficiary
of the decedent’s trust and was claiming a right pursuant to an alleged oral
agreement between her deceased uncle and his wife whereby the wife, who
survived the husband/uncle, agreed to leave half of the couple’s estate to her
husband’s niece’s and nephews upon the wife’s death.  Here, Plaintiff is the sole beneficiary of
Decedent’s purported will, the validity of which is the subject of the probate
action to which both Plaintiff and Defendant are parties.  
 
As such, this action is subject to demurrer on the ground
that there is another action pending between the same parties on the same cause
of action.  CCP 430.10(c).  Based on the foregoing, no amendment can cure
the defects in the pleading.  
 
CONCLUSION
 
The demurrer is sustained without leave to amend.  
 
Defendant’s request for sanctions is denied.  Even if the Court determined that Plaintiff’s
counsel did not adequately respond to Defendant’s meet and confer efforts, such
failure would not provide a basis for sustaining the demurrer.  CCP 430.41(a)(4).  As such, the Court finds that such conduct
would not warrant the imposition of sanctions. 
Further, it does not appear that further meet and confer efforts would
have resolved the dispute as Plaintiff was not willing to dismiss the instant
action which is what Defendant was requesting.      
 