 Case Number:  20STCV00351    Hearing Date:   March 25, 2024    Dept:  29 Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for
Production (Set Two)
 
Tentative
The Court will hear from counsel.
The Court’s tentative, as set forth below, is to grant the
motion in part and to deny the motion in part.
Background
The matter involves two consolidated cases arising out of an alleged vehicle accident on February 19, 2018,
near the intersection of Colorado Avenue and 26th Street in Santa Monica,
California.  
On January 3, 2020, Plaintiff Debbie Thomas filed
the complaint in Case No. 20STCV00351 (the “Thomas Action”) asserting one cause of action for motor vehicle
negligence against Defendants American Medical
Response, Inc. (“AMR”), Global Medical Response, Inc. (“Global”), Envision
Healthcare, Inc. (“Envision”), Zane Steven Petterson (“Petterson”), and
Does 1 through 50.  Plaintiff Thomas requested
the dismissal of Defendant Petterson, and Defendants AMR and Envision filed their
answers on October 19 and November 3, 2020.
On February 11, 2020, Plaintiff Joanne Hoyko (“Plaintiff”)
filed the complaint in Case No. 20STCV05634 (the “Hokyo
Action”) asserting causes of action for motor vehicle
negligence and general negligence against Defendants Petterson, AMR, Global,
Envision, and Does 1 through 100.  Plaintiff requested the dismissal of Defendant
Petterson, and Defendants Envision and AMR filed their answers on November 3
and 18, 2020.
Based upon the stipulation of the parties,
the Thomas Action and the Hokyo Action were consolidated in December 2020.
In January 2023, Plaintiff dismissed her
claims against Global and Envision.
On March 14, 2024, Plaintiff Thomas filed a
notice of settlement of her entire action (but not the Hokyo Action).
As it relates to the motion currently before
the Court, on July 6, 2023, Plaintiff served AMR with Requests for Production
(Set Two).  (Santiago Decl., ¶ 2.)  After several extensions, AMR served
responses on November 13.  (Id., ¶ 7.)  Plaintiff contends that the responses are not
code compliant, but the parties were unable t resolve their disputes.  (Id., ¶¶ 8-13.)
Plaintiff filed this motion to compel further
responses on January 24, 2024.  Plaintiff
also requests monetary sanctions.  AMR
filed its opposition on March 13, and Plaintiff filed her reply on March 18.
The Court held an Informal Discovery Conference
(IDC) on March 19, but the matter was not resolved.
Legal Standard
“On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling
further response to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the
following apply: (1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete.  (2) A representation of
inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.  (3) An objection in the response is without
merit or too general.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.310, subd. (a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given
“within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id.,
subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must set forth specific
facts showing good cause for the discovery and must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1)-(3); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“[T]he court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (h).)
“[I]f a party then
fails to obey an order compelling further response, the court may make those
orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an
evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under Chapter 7 ….  In lieu of, or in addition to, that sanction,
the court may impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 ….”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd.
(i).)
In Chapter 7 of the
Civil Discovery Act, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (a)
provides, in pertinent part, that the court may impose a monetary sanction ordering
that any person “engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any
attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” A “misuse of
the discovery process” includes (among other things) failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery; making, without substantial
justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an evasive
response to a discovery request; disobeying a court order to provide discovery;
and making or opposing, unsuccessfully, a motion to compel without substantial
justification. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subds. (d)-(h).)
Discussion
Plaintiff seeks to compel further responses to Requests for
Production Nos. 16-29, 34, 37, 45-50, 52, 53, 58, and 60.
RFP No. 16
Plaintiff seeks all documents that support AMR’s contention “that
YOUR employee Zane Patterson was not 100% responsible for this INCIDENT.”
AMR’s objections are OVERRULED.
Plaintiff’s motion to compel a further response is
DENIED.  AMR has stated, in a verified
response, that it cannot comply because there is a false premise in the request;
Mr. Patterson was not employed by AMR. 
Accordingly, AMR is for that reason unable to comply with the
request.  The response is code
compliant.  It is unclear what more
Plaintiff seeks.
The Court understands that AMR previously stipulated that Mr.
Patterson was its employee.  (Wood Decl.,
¶ 4.)  It is unclear to the Court whether
Plaintiff seeks to enforce this stipulation and/or to estop AMR from at this
point denying (in light of its prior stipulation) that Mr. Patterson was its
employee.  But that issue is not raised in
the moving papers and therefore the Court will not reach it.
RFP Nos. 17-19, 22, 45-47, 52-53, 58
Requests Nos. 17-19 are only slight variants of No. 16, with
the words “liable” (No. 17), “negligent” (No. 18), and “at fault” (No. 19)
substituted in place of “responsible.”
Request Nos. 22, 45-47, 58, and 60 are different but also
contain the premise that Mr. Patterson was an employee of AMR.
Request Nos. 52-53 are different but contain that premise that
the vehicle that Mr. Patterson was driving belonged to AMR.
AMR’s objections are OVERRULED.
For the same reason as set forth above on No. 16, Plaintiff’s motion
to compel a further response is DENIED. 
RFP Nos. 20, 23
Request No. 20 seeks all documents that support AMR’s
contention that Plaintiff “is responsible for this incident.”  Request No. 23 seeks photographs of the
damage to Plaintiff’s vehicle.
AMR’s objections based on vagueness, ambiguity, over breadth,
legal conclusion, and expert opinion are OVERRULED.
AMR’s statement that it is unable to comply because Mr.
Patterson was not employed by AMR is non-responsive, illogical, and not code
compliant.
AMR’s objections based on attorney-client privilege and work
product doctrine are OVERRULED.  AMR, as
the party claiming that the attorney-client privilege
or work product doctrine is a basis to resist or limit discovery, has the
initial burden of establishing the factual basis for the claim.  (Zimmerman v. Super. Ct. (2013)
220 Cal.App.4th 389, 402; Citizens for Ceres v. Super. Ct. (2013) 217
Cal.App.4th 889, 911 [party asserting attorney-client privilege or work product
doctrine “must prove the preliminary facts” to show that protection applies]; Santa
Rosa Memorial Hospital v. Super. Ct. (1985) 174 Cal.App.3d 711,
727-728.)  AMR has
not done so.  AMR offers legal assertions
but no facts sufficient to support its apparent contention that responsive
documents in its possession that show that Plaintiff was responsible for the
accident are covered by the attorney-client privilege or protected by the work
product doctrine.
Plaintiff’s motion to compel a further
response is GRANTED.
RFP Nos. 21, 24
Request No. 21 seeks all documents that support AMR’s
contention that “some other person or entity” is “responsible for this
incident.”  Request No. 24 seeks photographs
of the damage to vehicles driven by people other than Plaintiff.
AMR’s objections based on vagueness, ambiguity, over breadth,
legal conclusion, and expert opinion are OVERRULED.
AMR’s statement that it is unable to comply because Mr.
Patterson was not employed by AMR is non-responsive, illogical, and not code
compliant.
AMR’s objections based on attorney-client privilege and work
product doctrine are OVERRULED.  AMR, as
the party claiming that the attorney-client privilege
or work product doctrine is a basis to resist or limit discovery, has the
initial burden of establishing the factual basis for the claim.  (Zimmerman v. Super. Ct. (2013)
220 Cal.App.4th 389, 402; Citizens for Ceres v. Super. Ct. (2013) 217
Cal.App.4th 889, 911 [party asserting attorney-client privilege or work product
doctrine “must prove the preliminary facts” to show that protection applies]; Santa
Rosa Memorial Hospital v. Super. Ct. (1985) 174 Cal.App.3d 711,
727-728.)  AMR has
not done so.  AMR offers legal assertions
but no facts sufficient to support its apparent contention that responsive
documents in its possession that show that Plaintiff was responsible for the
accident are covered by the attorney-client privilege or protected by the work
product doctrine.
Moreover, AMR’s verified response (and
paragraph 4 of the Wood Declaration) indicate that AMR has concluded that Mr.
Patterson, a driver who may be at fault, was an employee of American Medical
Response of Southern California (“AMRSC”). 
AMR must respond regarding what documents it has that support this conclusion;
such documents are responsive to this request (as they would support AMR’s contention
that another entity (AMRSC) is responsible for the accident).
Plaintiff’s motion to compel a further
response is GRANTED.
RFP Nos. 25-34, 48-50
AMR’s objections are OVERRULED.  AMR’s statement of inability to comply is not
code compliant.
Plaintiff’s motion to compel a further response is GRANTED.
RFP No. 37.
AMR’s objections are OVERRULED.  AMR’s statement that Mr. Patterson was not
employed by AMR is non-responsive, illogical, and not code compliant.  AMR’s statement of inability to comply is not
code compliant.
Plaintiff’s motion to compel a further response is GRANTED.
Sanctions
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is denied because Plaintiff
did not request monetary sanctions in her notice of motion and motion.
Conclusion
The motion is granted in part and denied in part.
The Court ORDERS AMR to serve written, verified, code-compliant
responses, without objection, to Requests for Production Nos. 20-21, 23-24,
25-34, 37, and 48-50 within 21 days of notice.
The Court DENIES the remainder of the motion, including the
request for sanctions.
Moving party to give notice.