 Case Number:  23STCV11537    Hearing Date:   March 25, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Strike filed by Defendant Serajul Islam. 
 
Tentative
Defendant’s motion to strike is GRANTED
without leave to amend.
Background
This
case arises out of an incident that allegedly occurred on May 29, 2022, on
Vermont Avenue in Los Angeles, California.
On
May 23, 2023, Plaintiff Abdus Samad (“Plaintiff”) filed the initial Complaint in
this action asserting causes of action for negligence, intentional tort, and
premises liability against Defendants Quazi Moshhoorul Huda (“Huda”), Serajul
Islam (“Islam”), and Does 1 through 100. On July 31, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against the same defendants, asserting a single cause
of action for negligence. 
On
October 16, 2023, the Court granted Defendant Islam’s motion to strike the
punitive damages allegations in the FAC, with leave to amend.
On
November 1, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against
the same defendants, asserting a single cause of action for negligence.
On
January 4, 2024, the Court granted Defendant Islam’s motion to strike the
punitive damages in the SAC.  The Court
granted Plaintiff leave to amend “one additional time” but made clear that
Plaintiff “should assume that this is his final opportunity to plead, with
adequate specificity and particularity, his claim for punitive damages.”  (Minute Order dated January 4, 2024, at pp.
4-5.)
On
January 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) against the
same defendants, asserting a single cause of action for negligence.
On
February 26, 2024, Defendant Islam filed this motion to strike the punitive
damages allegations in the TAC. Islam also request that the Court take judicial
notice of the Minute Orders of October 16, 2023, and January 4, 2024. On March
12, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the motion, and on March 18 Defendant
Islam filed a reply.
Legal
Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 435 authorizes a party to file
a motion to strike. “Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a
pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part
thereof.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 435, subd. (b)(1).)
Code of Civil Procedure section 436 provides
as follows: 
“The court may, upon a motion made pursuant
to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems
proper: 
 (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. 
 (b) Strike out all or any part of any
pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court
rule, or an order of the court.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436.)  In ruling on a motion to strike, the court
must assume the truth of the properly pleaded facts in the complaint or other pleading.
(Turman v. Turning Point of Central California, Inc. (2010) 191
Cal.App.4th 53, 63.)
Preliminary
Matters
Defendant Islam’s
request for the Court to take judicial notice of its prior minute orders (dated
October 16, 2023, and January 4, 2024) is GRANTED.
The Court finds
that counsel for the moving party made an adequate effort to meet and confer
under Code of Civil Procedure section 435.5. (Landers Decl., ¶ 1; Exh. 1.)
Discussion
To
plead a claim for punitive damages under Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff
must allege specific facts showing that the defendant
has been guilty of malice, oppression or fraud. (College Hosp., Inc. v.
Super. Ct. (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721; Smith v. Super. Ct. (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042.) 
“Malice” is defined in section
3294, subdivision (c)(1), as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to
cause injury” or “despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with
a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” 
“Oppression” is defined in
section 3294, subdivision (c)(2), as “despicable conduct subjecting a person to
cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.”
“Fraud” is defined in section
3294, subdivision (c)(3), as “an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” 
The term “despicable conduct,” as used in subdivisions (c)(1) and (c)(2),
has been defined in the case law
as actions that are “base,” “vile,” or “contemptible.” (See, e.g., College Hospital, supra, 8 Cal.4th at p. 725; Shade Foods, Inc. v. Innovative Products Sales &
Marketing, Inc. (2000) 78 Cal. App. 4th
847, 891; see also CACI 3940 [“Despicable conduct is conduct that is so
vile, base, or contemptible that it would be looked down on and despised by
reasonable people.”].)
The
basis for punitive damages must be pleaded with particularity; conclusory
allegations devoid of any factual assertions are insufficient. (Ibid.;
see also Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 598, 643.) A motion to strike may lie where the facts alleged, if
proven, would not support a finding that the defendant acted with malice, fraud,
or oppression. (Today IV’s Inc. v. Los Angeles County MTA (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th
1137, 1193; Turman, supra, 191 Cal. App. 4th at p. 63.)
Pleading negligence, gross negligence, or even recklessness is not
sufficient. (Dawes v. Super. Ct. (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 82, 87.)
Rather, a plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating that the defendant intended
to cause harm to plaintiff or “acted in such an outrageous and reprehensible
manner that the jury could infer that [the defendant] knowingly disregarded the
substantial certainty of injury to others.” (Id. at p. 90; see also,
e.g., American Airlines, Inc. v. Sheppard, Mullin, Richter
& Hampton (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 1017.). 
In the TAC, Plaintiff asserts one cause of
action for general negligence. (TAC, at p. 4.) Plaintiff alleges that on May
29, 2022, Defendant Islam “caused my cell phone to be confiscated by himself
and several others while I, within my legal rights as a licensed journalist, …
record[ed] the events that were taking place at the time.” (Ibid.)
Defendant Huda is alleged to have “published via social media … extremely
incriminating false statements against me” which have “had a devastating effect
on my credibility as a journalist within my community.” (Ibid.)
In
an Exemplary Damages attachment, labeled as page 3 of the TAC, Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant Huda “had a similar altercation causing harm and damage
in another matter,” which led to “a judgment entered against defendant Huda in
that case.” (TAC, at p. 3.) Plaintiff also states in this attachment that he
has “suffered immense damage due to the actions of both Defendants Huda and
Islam.” (Ibid.)
The
TAC also contains a two-page attachment in which Plaintiff sets forth 7
numbered paragraphs.  These paragraphs set
forth mostly conclusory statements that when Defendant Islam confiscated Plaintiff’s
camera, Islam engaged in malicious, oppressive, and despicable conduct.
Finally,
in Exhibit 0 to the TAC, Plaintiff attaches a police report, a handwritten
description of what may be the incident that describes various events but does
not allege any specific allegation of conduct by any identified Defendant, and
certain other documents (including approximately 46 pages of Plaintiff’s
medical records).
The Court has compared the TAC to the SAC.  Certain materials in the SAC have been
omitted, and what was a 15-numbered paragraph attachment to the SAC has been
streamlines and rephrased as a 7-numbered paragraph attachment to the TAC.  But what is missing from the TAC, as was
missing from the FAC and SAC, are factual allegations pleaded with particularity
that would, if proven, establish a basis for the award of punitive damages.
The Court has carefully reviewed the TAC and the arguments of
each side and concludes that the TAC, like the FAC and SAC, fails to state
facts with sufficient particularity to support a claim against Defendant Islam
for the recovery of punitive damages. Defendant Islam is alleged to have been
involved in some way (along with others) in taking Plaintiff’s cell phone from
him. Plaintiff asserts a claim against Defendant Islam for negligence, not for
an intentional tort. (TAC, at pp. 3, 4.) Others were also involved in this
alleged taking of the cell phone, and it is not clear from the TAC who did
what, and other individuals (including, but not limited to Defendant Huda) are
alleged to have committed other wrongful acts against Plaintiff. There are
statements in the exhibits about robbery, defamation, and kidnapping, but Plaintiff
does not allege who (Defendant Islam, Defendant Huda, or others) committed
which act or acts. Accordingly, the TAC, as pleaded, fails to state a claim for
punitive damages against Defendant Islam.
Twice before the Court granted Plaintiff leave to amend.  In its last order, the Court specifically warned
Plaintiff that he should assume that this would be his final opportunity to
plead, with adequate specificity and particularity, his claim for punitive damages.  Plaintiff still has not done so, despite repeated
opportunities.  Accordingly, the Court
concludes that Plaintiff is unable to plead a viable claim for punitive damages
against Defendant Islam.
Defendant Islam’s motion to strike the punitive damages
allegations against him in the TAC is GRANTED without leave to amend.
 Conclusion
The Court GRANTS
Defendant Islam’s motion to strike the punitive damages against him in the TAC
WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
The Court GRANTS
Defendant Islam 21 days to file a responsive pleading.
The Court further notes that this ruling
applies to the punitive damages claims against Defendant Islam only.  The punitive damages allegations remain in
the TAC as against the other defendants. 
Moving party to give notice.