 Case Number:  22STCV20519    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Jennifer Small filed
this suit against numerous defendants for damages arising out of an assault by
a third party at Plaintiff’s apartment building.  The specifics of the assault will be
discussed in detail below.    
 
Plaintiff’s operative First Amended
Complaint includes causes of action for negligence, breach of contract (Civil
Code §1941.3(c)), breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing, and breach of the implied warranty of habitability.  Plaintiff’s complaint includes a prayer for
punitive damages.  
 
2.     Defendants’
Facts
Many of the facts relating to this
motion are undisputed.  If a fact is
disputed, the Court will present each party’s contention in this
statement.  
 
Plaintiff was a tenant in
Defendants’ two-story, four-unit building in Avalon; her tenancy commenced in
February of 2000.  Philip Lopez, whose
girlfriend, Sandra Gutierrez, attacked Plaintiff, had been a tenant in the
building since December of 2019. 
Plaintiff was in Unit B, which was downstairs, and Lopez occupied Unit
C, which was upstairs.  In order to
access the upstairs units, Lopez had to use an outdoor walkway that passed
about ten feet from the front door of Plaintiff’s unit.    
 
Gutierrez was Lopez’s girlfriend
and sometimes stayed in his apartment, but was not on the lease and was not a
tenant in the building.  Lopez and
Gutierrez caused a noise disturbance on 8/12/21, which caused Plaintiff to call
the sheriff.  Plaintiff called about
another such disturbance on 8/22/21. 
Plaintiff called about other noise disturbances on 8/23/21 and 8/28/21.  
 
Plaintiff texted Defendants’ agent
about the incidents, and the agent said to contact the police if there was a
need to do so.  Plaintiff indicated she
would be staying inside from now on. 
Defendants’ agent went to the sheriff’s department and signed a trespass
arrest authorization, which authorized the department to arrest Gutierrez for
trespass if she was on the property without consent or lawful reason.  There were no further noise or other
incidents.  
 
On 9/22/21, Plaintiff was returning
to her apartment after going on a walk around 5:20 p.m., when she heard
Gutierrez, who appeared to be on something. 
She contacted Defendants’ agent, who advised her to call the
police.  She called the sheriff’s
department from inside her unit with the door closed and locked.  While still on the phone, she unlocked her
door and stepped outside; she was recording with her iPad.  Gutierrez came downstairs, the call with the
sheriff ended, and Gutierrez then struck Plaintiff multiple times while
Plaintiff was on her own walkway.  Lopez
pulled Gutierrez off of Plaintiff.  The
sheriff’s department arrived less than two minutes later.  
 
3.     Plaintiff’s
Facts
Plaintiff submitted her own
statement of facts with his opposition papers, and Defendants submitted a
response with their reply.  Those
additional facts consist of a series of facts about habitability issues on the
property.  Plaintiff also provides
evidence that Defendants knew Lopez was arrested in August of 2021 (Defendants
dispute this and say Gutierrez, not Lopez, was arrested, which appears to be
correct) for being under the influence and disturbing the peace, and that all
the tenants reported to Defendants that 40-50 people were coming and going from
Lopez’s apartment for five minutes at a time throughout the night.  Plaintiff provides evidence that both
Plaintiff and Defendants understood Lopez to be selling drugs out of his
apartment.  Plaintiff reported to
Defendants’ agent, on 9/16/21, that the tenant in Unit D had gotten into a
violent fight the night before, which rendered her scared to leave her
apartment.  Gutierrez had been spending
the night OUTSIDE of Lopez’s apartment, in the common area, starting on
8/10/21.  While staying in the common
area, Gutierrez yells and screams and had thrown objects at residents,
including Plaintiff.  
 
Gutierrez was sometimes entering
the property because Lopez let her in, and was sometimes entering the property
because the entry door was unsecured. 
Gutierrez was arrested on the property on 8/28/21.    
 
4.     Evidentiary
Objections
Defendants filed objections with
their reply papers.  The objections fail
to comply with CRC 3.1354(b)(3), which requires the objecting party to quote or
set forth the objectionable statement or material.  Notably, this is a requirement in addition to
the requirement, per 3.1354(b)(2), that the objecting party state the exhibit,
title, page, and line number of the material objected to.  Defendants complied with (b)(2), but not
(b)(3).  
 
Compounding the matter, Defendants
arguably complied with 3.1354(b)(4), which requires the objecting party to
“state the grounds for each objection.” 
Defendants did so, however, by citing the Evidence Code sections pursuant
to which they are objecting, rather than using more typical terms such as
“relevance,” “hearsay,” “lack of foundation,” etc.
 
For the Court to meaningfully rule
on the objections, the Court would have to go back and forth between the
objections themselves, Plaintiff’s submitted evidence, and the Evidence
Code.  The purpose of the Rules of Court
is to simplify this process so the Court can review ONE document when ruling on
asserted objections.
 
The Court declines to rule on the
objections in light of the defect.  
 
5.     Analysis
a.    
Summary
Adjudication
Defendants seek summary adjudication of five issues.  Defendants, in their separate statement, list
forty facts that they contend entitle them to judgment as a matter of law on
the first cause of action for negligence. 
They then indicate those same forty facts entitle them to judgment as a
matter of law on each of the other four issues.
 
CRC 3.1350(d)(2) makes clear that the separate statement must include
only facts pertinent to disposition of the motion.  Plaintiff’s negligence cause of action is
based on the assertion that Defendants failed to evict Lopez, failed to hire
security guards, and failed to secure doors. 
This is not the same as the allegations that support each of the other
three causes of action.  The second cause
of action is premised on lack of locking mechanisms.  The third cause of action is premised on
Defendants’ maintenance of nuisance conditions on the property.  The fourth cause of action is premised on
Defendants’ failure to property maintain common areas and secure the
property.  
 
The Court will not pick through the separate statement and determine
which facts apply to which issues to be adjudicated.  The motion will therefore either be granted
or denied in its entirety, and summary adjudication will not be
entertained.  
 
a.    
Burdens
on Summary Judgment
Summary judgment is proper “if all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  Where a defendant seeks summary judgment or
adjudication, he must show that either “one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is
a complete defense to that cause of action.” 
(Id. at §437c(o)(2).)  A defendant
may satisfy this burden by showing that the claim “cannot be established”
because of the lack of evidence on some essential element of the claim.  (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31
Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)  Once the
defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a
“triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or defense thereto.”  (Ibid.)  
 
The moving party bears the initial
burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable
issues of material fact.  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment must
show either (1) that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be
established or (2) that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant may discharge this burden by
furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required facts or (2)
discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to establish an
essential element of the plaintiff's case. If a defendant chooses the latter
option he or she must present evidence “and not simply point out that plaintiff
does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence….” Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at 865-66,
[A] defendant may simply show the
plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action “by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.” (Id. at p. 854.)  Thus,
rather than affirmatively disproving or negating an element (e.g., causation),
a defendant moving for summary judgment has the option of presenting evidence
reflecting the plaintiff does not possess evidence to prove that element. “The
defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an
element of the plaintiff's cause of action. The defendant may also present
evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery
to the effect that he has discovered nothing” to support an essential element
of his case. (Aguilar, supra, at p. 855.) Under the latter approach, a
defendant's initial evidentiary showing may “consist of the deposition
testimony of the plaintiff's witnesses, the plaintiff's factually devoid
discovery responses, or admissions by the plaintiff in deposition or in
response to requests for admission that he or she has not discovered anything
that supports an essential element of the cause of action.” (Lona v. Citibank,
N.A., supra, 202 Cal.App.4th at p. 110.) 
In other words, a defendant may show the plaintiff does not possess
evidence to support an element of the cause of action by means of presenting
the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses from which an absence of
evidence may be reasonably inferred. (Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Construction Co.
(1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 64, 83.)
 
Thus, a moving defendant has two
means by which to shift the burden of proof under the summary judgment statute:
“The defendant may rely upon factually insufficient discovery responses by the
plaintiff to show that the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of
the cause of action sued upon. [Citation.] [Or a]lternatively, the defendant
may utilize the tried and true technique of negating (‘disproving’) an
essential element of the plaintiff's cause of action.” (Brantly v. Pisaro
(1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1591, 1598.)  Leyva
v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1095, 1103.
 
Until the moving defendant has
discharged its burden of proof, the opposing plaintiff has no burden to come
forward with any evidence. Once the moving defendant has discharged its burden
as to a particular cause of action, however, the plaintiff may defeat the
motion by producing evidence showing that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p)(2).)  On a motion for summary judgment, the moving
party's supporting documents are strictly construed and those of his opponent
liberally construed, and doubts as to the propriety of summary judgment should
be resolved against granting the motion. 
(D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.) 
 
b.    
Negligence
Plaintiff’s operative First Amended
Complaint alleges Defendants were negligent because they failed to secure the
locks and hinges on the outside door, hire a security guard, and/or evict Lopez
from the property.  
 
Defendants’ moving papers argue
they had no duty to evict Lopez, no duty to hire a security guard, and no duty
to install additional lighting. 
Defendants’ moving papers, as they relate to the cause of action for
negligence, never mention or discuss Plaintiff’s allegation that Defendants
were obligated to secure the locks and hinges on the outside door.  Defendants therefore failed to meet their
moving burden to establish Plaintiff’s first cause of action fails as a matter
of law.  The motion for summary adjudication
of the first cause of action is denied.    
 
c.    
Second
Cause of Action, Violation of Civil Code §1941.3(c)
In an abundance of caution, the
Court has considered Plaintiff’s second cause of action.  The Court has done so because the second
cause of action is premised on Defendants’ failure to ensure all locks complied
with the Civil Code.  This cause of
action therefore overlaps with Plaintiff’s theory in connection with the first
cause of action, which Defendants failed to address in their moving papers in
connection with the first cause of action.
 
Defendants, in their motion for
summary adjudication of the second cause of action, argue Plaintiff cannot
prevail on the cause of action because proper locking mechanisms would not have
prevented the subject attack.  Defendants
do not, however, attempt to negate Plaintiff’s allegation that the locks were
not working.  Defendants fail to provide
authority for the position that a cause of action for violation of Civil Code §1941.3(c)
cannot be pled if the violation of the section does not give rise to specified
damages.  The Code is notably silent in
this regard.  Absent on point authority,
the Court finds Defendants failed to meet their burden in this regard either.  
 
d.     Additional
Issues
As noted above, the Court declines
to rule on the alternative motion for summary adjudication, as Defendants’
separate statement fails to comply with the Rules of Court.
 
e.     Conclusion
Defendants’ motion for summary
judgment is denied.  Their alternative
motion for summary adjudication is also denied. 

 
Defendants are ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   