 Case Number:  24LBCV00790    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  S27 
Background Facts

Plaintiff, OOCL (USA), Inc., as
agent for Orient Overseas Container Line, filed this action against Defendant,
Fenix Marine Services Ltd., a Delaware Corporation, for common counts.  Plaintiff filed its complaint on 4/17/24.
 

Motion to Deem RFAs
     Admitted

a.    
Parties’ Positions
Defendant propounded RFAs on
Plaintiff on 8/27/24.  Defendant granted
Plaintiff an extension of time to respond through 10/16/24.  On 10/16/24, Plaintiff asked for a couple of
additional weeks, but Defendant refused. 
On 11/04/24, Defendant filed this motion to deem RFAs admitted.
 
Opposition to the motion was due on
or before 12/04/24.  On 12/06/24,
Plaintiff’s attorney filed an untimely declaration in opposition to the
motion.  Counsel declares he served responses
on 11/07/24, but because that response appears not to have been effective, he
is re-serving the responses by first class mail concurrently with his
declaration.  
 
Defendant filed timely reply papers
on 12/10/24.  Defendant argues the motion
should be substantively granted because Plaintiff’s untimely responses are not
in substantial compliance with the Code. 
It seeks, in the alternative, an order compelling Plaintiff to serve
fully code-compliant responses to the subject RFAs.  
 
b.    
Analysis
CCP §2033.280(c) requires the Court
to deem RFAs admitted if the responding party fails to serve a response “in
substantial compliance with the Code” prior to the hearing.  In response to numerous RFAs, Plaintiff stated
that the RFA is neither admitted nor denied, then gave an explanation for why
it is neither admitted nor denied.  
 
§2033.220 provides:
(a) Each answer in a response to
requests for admission shall be as complete and straightforward as the
information reasonably available to the responding party permits.
(b) Each answer shall:
(1) Admit so much of the matter
involved in the request as is true, either as expressed in the request itself
or as reasonably and clearly qualified by the responding party.
(2) Deny so much of the matter
involved in the request as is untrue.
(3) Specify so much of the matter
involved in the request as to the truth of which the responding party lacks
sufficient information or knowledge.
(c) If a responding party gives
lack of information or knowledge as a reason for a failure to admit all or part
of a request for admission, that party shall state in the answer that a
reasonable inquiry concerning the matter in the particular request has been
made, and that the information known or readily obtainable is insufficient to
enable that party to admit the matter.
 
Defendant is correct in noting that
Plaintiff’s responses, which state the RFAs are neither admitted nor denied and
then give a reason why, are not code-compliant. 
The responses do not fall into any of the above categories.  
 
The Court finds, however, that
deeming them admitted would be unduly harsh. 
As noted above, the motion must be denied if the requests are in
“substantial compliance with the Code.” 
There is no case law interpreting this mandate, but the Court finds it
means the motion must be denied even if the responses are less than perfect, as
“substantial compliance” would lack meaning otherwise.  
 
The motion to deem the RFAs
admitted is denied.  Plaintiff must,
however, serve supplemental responses in full compliance with the Code within
ten days.  
 
Sanctions are not sought and
therefore none are imposed.
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email
to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   
 