  Case Number:  20STCV43795    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiffs, Antonio Calderon, Ana
Canchola, and Frank G. Martinez filed this action against Defendant, SCE for
damages arising out of an electrical explosion and fire in an underground
high-voltage vault.  Plaintiffs’
operative complaint is their Second Amended Complaint, which was filed on
5/08/23.  
 
2.     Motion
to Compel Additional IME
a.    
Parties’ Positions 
Hampton Teddy moves to compel
Plaintiff to sit for a defense medical examination with a burn specialist.  It contends litigation has made clear that
Plaintiff’s injuries are complex in nature, such that this additional
examination is necessary.  It concedes it
has conducted orthopedic and neuropsychological examinations of Plaintiff, but
contends an examination with a plastic surgeon who specializes in burns is
necessary to fully evaluate Plaintiff’s claimed damages.  
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion.  He argues Cross-Defendant’s orthopedic expert
was retained to examine his burns, and has already opined concerning his
burns.  He contends Cross-Defendant is
dissatisfied with the orthopedic expert’s conclusions and is seeking a second
bite at the proverbial apple by way of this motion.  Additionally, he contends the proposed
examination does not comply with CCP §2023.310(b).
 
Hampton Teddy, in reply, contends
its orthopedic surgeon viewed and examined the burns, but is not qualified to
testify concerning the future care contemplated by Plaintiff in connection with
his burns.  HT notes that Plaintiff has
retained a burn expert, and notes that its orthopedist’s notes in connection
with Plaintiff’s burns do not constitute an examination of the burns.  It contends the proposed examination complies
with the Code and should be permitted to go forward.  
 
b.     Law
Governing Additional IMEs in Personal Injury Lawsuits
Except for defense physicals in
personal injury cases (in which one examination is permitted as a matter of
course) and exams arranged by stipulation, a court order is required for a
physical or mental examination. Such order may be made only after notice and
hearing, and for “good cause shown.” 
(CCP §2032.320(a).)  
 
The examination will be limited to
whatever condition is “in controversy” in the action.  (CCP §2032.020(a).)  This means the examination must be directly
related to the specific injury or condition that is the subject of the
litigation.  Roberts v. Superior Court
(1973) 9 Cal.3d 330, 337.  Often, a
party's pleadings put his or her mental or physical condition in controversy
... as when a plaintiff claims continuing mental or physical injury resulting
from defendant's acts: “A party who chooses to allege that he has mental and
emotional difficulties can hardly deny his mental state is in
controversy.”  See Vinson v. Superior
Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 837, wherein the plaintiff claimed ongoing
emotional distress from sexual harassment by former employer.  Discovery responses can also frame the issues
regarding the injuries and damages alleged. 

 
Where the plaintiff's injuries are
complex, several exams may be necessary by specialists in different fields.
There is no limit on the number of physical or mental exams that may be ordered
on a showing of good cause.  The good
cause requirement checks any potential harassment of the plaintiff.  See Shapira v. Superior Court (1990) 224
Cal.App.3d 1249, 1255.
 
The burden is on the moving party
to show (by declarations or other evidence) that the examinee's condition is
“in controversy” in the action.  The
moving party must also establish good cause for the examination(s) sought.  A court order for physical or mental
examination must be based on a showing of “good cause” (CCP § 2032.320(a)): (1)
relevancy to the subject matter; and (2) specific facts justifying discovery:
i.e., allegations showing the need for the information sought and lack of means
for obtaining it elsewhere.  (Vinson v.
Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.) 
The purpose is to protect an examinee's privacy by preventing annoying
“fishing expeditions” - i.e., one party may not compel another to undergo
psychiatric testing “solely on the basis of speculation that something of
interest may surface.”  (Id.)
 
The notice of motion must state the
time, place, identity and speciality of the examiner, and the “manner,
conditions, scope and nature of the examination.”  (CCP § 2032.310(b).)  The requirement for specification of the
“manner, conditions, scope and nature of the examination” apparently requires
disclosure of whatever diagnostic tests and procedures will be utilized
(x-rays, blood and urine samples, etc.). 
(See CCP § 2032.220(c).)  The
notice of motion must be accompanied by a separate document setting forth the
discovery request, the Declarations must state facts showing that “a reasonable
and good faith attempt” to arrange the examination by stipulation was
unsuccessful.  (CCP § 2032.310(b).)  
 
c.     Analysis
Plaintiff’s claimed injuries are
clearly complex.  Importantly, Plaintiff
is calling both a burn expert and an orthopedic expert.  Plaintiff cannot, under the circumstances, be
heard to complain about sitting for defense IMEs with both burn and orthopedic
experts.  
 
The Court finds Plaintiff’s
argument about the lack of evidence in support of the motion is unavailing, as
it is common sense that a burn expert would need to examine the plaintiff in
order to form competent opinions about necessary future care.  Notably, if Defendant’s retained expert did
NOT examine Plaintiff, Plaintiff would likely seek to exclude the expert’s
opinions at trial based on lack of foundation and lack of personal knowledge.  
 
The Court also finds it is common
sense that an orthopedic expert may have reviewed and made notes about
Plaintiff’s burns, but the orthopedic expert is not, by definition, a burn
expert, and would lack the expert credentials to testify about future necessary
burn care.  
 
While it would have been preferable
for HT to have sought this examination sooner, the Court finds the examination
is necessary and meets the test set forth above.  
 
d.    
§2023.310(b)
Plaintiff argues the motion
violates CCP §2023.310(b), in that it (a) improperly demands videotaping, (b)
fails to identify specific body parts that will be the subject of the
examination, and (c) fails to provide details concerning any tests or procedures
to be performed.  
 
i.             
Videotape
Plaintiff is correct that neither
the Code nor case law permits videotaping of a defense medical
examination.  California Code of Civil
Procedure § 2032.530 explicitly allows for the audio recording of mental
examinations but does not mention videotaping. 
Case law further supports this interpretation.  In  
Edmiston v. Superior Court, the California Supreme Court held that the
statute providing for court-ordered medical examinations does not authorize
videotaping, and the imposition of such a condition was improper.  Edmiston v. Superior Court (1978) 22 Cal.3d
699. The court emphasized that the legislature had directed that medical
examinations be reported by means other than videotaping.  Id. 
Similarly, in   Ramirez v.
MacAdam, the court reiterated that the Civil Discovery Act does not permit
videotaping of physical examinations, and any change to allow videotaping would
need to be determined by the legislature. 
Ramirez v. MacAdam (1993) 13 Cal.App.4th 1638.  Additionally, in Randy's Trucking, Inc. v.
Superior Court of Kern County, the court prohibited videotaping of a
neuropsychological examination, instead allowing for audio recording to ensure
the examiner adheres to the court's parameters. 
Randy's Trucking, Inc. v. Superior Court of Kern County (2023) 91
Cal.App.5th 818.
 
Cross-Defendant’s reply is silent
in this regard.  Cross-Defendant must
remove the demand for videotaping from the description of the IME.
 
ii.            
Specific Body Parts
§2032.310(a) requires the party
seeking the examination to specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope,
and nature of the examination.  Plaintiff
contends this means the demand must indicate the body parts to be
examined.  Plaintiff cites Carpenter v.
Superior Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 249 in support of his
position.  Nothing in Carpenter, however,
mentions body parts.  TH’s demand
indicates the examination will be of “the body parts to which Plaintiff sustained
burns as a result of the incident, including but not limited to Plaintiff’s
upper extremities, including face, forearms/hands and head.”  The Court finds this is sufficient to
“specify” the scope of the examination; the examination will be of the face,
forearms/hands, and head, and if it comes to light that there are burns on
other areas, those areas will also be examined.
 
iii.           
Tests and Procedures
Plaintiff also complains that the
demand does not indicate what tests and procedures will be performed.  Carpenter clearly requires this disclosure in
the demand.  It appears, however, that
this will be a physical examination without tests and/or procedures.  The expert may not conduct any tests or
procedures that are not disclosed in the demand.
 
iv.           
Lost Wages and Expenses
Finally, Plaintiff contends he will
lose a day’s wages and will have to incur expenses if he is required to sit for
this additional examination.  He seeks an
order that TH be required to pay these expenses.  
 
CCP §2032.320(e) provides:
(e) If the place of the examination
is more than 75 miles from the residence of the person to be examined, an order
to submit to it shall be entered only if both of the following conditions are
satisfied:
(1) The court determines that there
is good cause for the travel involved.
(2) The order is conditioned on the
advancement by the moving party of the reasonable expenses and costs to the
examinee for travel to the place of examination.
 
The proposed examination is
slightly more than 75 miles from Plaintiff’s home.  The Court finds there is good cause to permit
HT to have the examination conducted at the office of its chosen retained
expert.  HT must advance the expenses and
costs associated with travel to the place of examination.  Plaintiff cites no authority for the position
that this would include lost wages, which are not “costs…for travel.”   The request for lost wages is therefore
denied. 
 
e.     Dr.
Light
As a final note, the parties
discuss whether or not Dr. Light violated the parties’ stipulation in
connection with Plaintiff’s neurological examination.  The issue is not before the Court and the
Court is not making any findings in this regard.
 
f.      Conclusion
The motion is granted.  The examination is set for 1/07/25 as per the
notice of motion.  The details of the
examination are per the notice of motion, with the exception of the fact that
the examination cannot be videotaped.  If
the parties have issues relating to the specifics of the examination, they must
meet and confer in good faith to resolve the issues without the need for
additional court guidance.  
 
Hampton Teddy is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.  