 Case Number:  23LBCV00491    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  S27 
Background Facts

Plaintiff, Cary Atwood initiated
this action against Defendants, Allyn Emery and Loma Law Group, APC on
3/15/23.  Plaintiff’s original complaint
included causes of action for breach of fiduciary duty, conversion, unjust
enrichment, breach of contract, equitable estoppel, quantum meruit, and
accounting.  The crux of the original
complaint was that Plaintiff agreed to generate cases for Defendants, and
Defendant would pay her for those referrals. 
Defendants failed to pay, resulting in a balance due in excess of
$400,000.
 
Defendants intended to challenge
the original complaint, and the parties’ meet and confer efforts resulted in
the filing of a First Amended Complaint. 
The FAC was filed on 8/18/23, and the FAC added Lyran Consulting, Inc.
as an additional plaintiff.  The same
causes of action from the original complaint were pled, and the main difference
from the original complaint to the FAC was that the FAC pleads the existence of
two contracts, one between Atwood and Defendants, and the other between Lyran
and Defendants.   
 
On 3/26/24, the Court sustained a
demurrer to the FAC.  The Court granted
leave in part and denied leave in part. 
On 4/15/24, Plaintiff filed the Second Amended Complaint.  The SAC omits any claims by Lyran, and
asserts only claims for breach of contract and quantum meriut on behalf of
Atwood.
 

Demurrer to Second
     Amended Complaint

a.    
Legal Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP §
430.10(f).  
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for
relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP
§ 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP
§430.41(a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a
declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 
b.     Meet
and Confer
Defense Counsel declares the
parties met and conferred extensively before Defendants filed their
demurrer.  The meet and confer
requirement is satisfied.  
 
c.     Requests
for Judicial Notice
Defendants seek judicial notice of
various documents from the Secretary of State’s website concerning Lyran
Consulting, Inc.  The RJN is granted.
 
d.     First
Cause of Action, Breach of Contract
In connection with Defendants’
demurrer to the First Amended Complaint, the Court ruled, in pertinent part:
As a related argument, Defendants
argue Lyran is not a California corporation and therefore cannot maintain its
lawsuit against Defendants.  Defendants
cite Corporations Code §§2105 and 2203 in support of this position.  §2203(c) provides that a foreign corporation
“shall not maintain any action or proceeding upon any intrastate business so
transacted in any court of this state” unless it complies with certain
requirements.  Plaintiffs, in opposition
to the demurrer, argue there is no proof that Lyran is not currently in good
standing.  The judicially noticeable
documents, however, show that, as of 10/18/23, Lyran’s status was
“terminated.”  In an abundance of
caution, the Court reviewed the current Secretary of State website, and it
continues to show Lyran’s status as “terminated.”  
 
The demurrer to Lyran’s cause of
action for breach of contract is sustained. 
Leave to amend is granted if and only if Plaintiffs intend to and do
revive Lyran’s status with the Secretary of State. 
 
Plaintiffs, instead of alleging
Lyran’s status was revived, omitted claims by Lyran and asserted only claims by
Atwood.  The causes are premised on the
allegation that Lyran assigned all claims against Defendants to Atwood.  
 
Defendants demur to the breach of
contract cause of action, correctly noting that the assignee of a terminated
California corporation stands in the shoes of the terminated California
corporation and therefore is also prevented from suing based on the corporation’s
lack of registration to do business in California.  
 
Under California law, a foreign
corporation that transacts intrastate business without obtaining a certificate
of qualification from the Secretary of State cannot maintain an action in
California courts until it complies with the qualification requirements and
pays the necessary fees and penalties (The Capital Gold Group, Inc. v. Nortier,
176 Cal.App.4th 1119 (2009)).  This rule
also applies to assignees of such foreign corporations. Specifically, an
assignee for collection purposes of a foreign corporation that has not complied
with the requirements for doing business in California is also barred from
suing (Thorner v. Selective Cam Transmission Co., 180 Cal.App.2d 89 (1960)).
 
In the case of   Thorner v. Selective Cam Transmission Co.,
the court held that an assignee of a foreign corporation is barred from suing
if the corporation itself would be barred for failing to comply with the requirements
for doing business in the state (Thorner v. Selective Cam Transmission Co., 180
Cal.App.2d 89 (1960)), (Cal-Western Business Services, Inc. v. Corning Capital
Group, 221 Cal.App.4th 304 (2013))[3]. This principle was reaffirmed in
Cal-Western Business Services, Inc. v. Corning Capital Group, where the court
emphasized that allowing an assignee to sue would frustrate the purpose of the
statute (Cal-Western Business Services, Inc. v. Corning Capital Group, 221
Cal.App.4th 304 (2013)).
 
Therefore, if the foreign
corporation has not obtained the necessary certificate of qualification to do
business in California, its assignee would also be barred from maintaining an
action in California courts.  Defendants’
judicially noticeable documents establish Lyran is not qualified to do business
in California, and therefore Atwood’s claims against Defendants are
precluded.  The demurrer to the breach of
contract cause of action is sustained. 
Because this is the Second Amended Complaint, because the demurrer is
unopposed, and because this is a purely legal issue, leave to amend is
denied.  
e.     Second
Cause of Action, Quantum Meruit
Plaintiff’s quantum meruit cause of
action rises and falls with the breach of contract cause of action.  See White Lighting Co. v. Woolfson, 68 Cal.2d
336, 346 (1968).  The demurrer to the
second cause of action is therefore also sustained.  Again, in light of the lack of opposition and
the fact that this is a purely legal issue, leave to amend is denied.  
 
Defendants are ordered to give
notice.
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email
to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   