 Case Number:  21STCV34963    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
September 22, 2021, Plaintiff Alexander Hallstead (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Defendants Schueleke, Inc., Sergio Julian Castel (“Castel”), and
Does 1-50 for motor vehicle tort and general negligence. 
On
November 8, 2021, Schuelke, Inc., erroneously sued and served as Schueleke,
Inc. (“Schuelke”), filed an answer. On March 3, 2022, Castel filed an answer. 
On February 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for an
order to produce inmate Shehzad Peermahomed for deposition testimony, to be
heard on March 7, 2024. On February 23, 2024, Schuelke filed an opposition. On
February 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply.  On March 7, 2024, the Court
denied the motion without prejudice because Plaintiff did not timely file or
serve it. 
On
March 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed another motion for an order to produce inmate Shehzad
Peermahomed for deposition testimony, to be heard on April 23, 2024. On April 9,
2024, Schuelke filed an opposition. On April 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply. 
On
March 27, 2024, Schuelke filed a motion to continue the trial and related
dates, to be heard on April 23, 2024. On April 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition.  On April 16, 2024, Schuelke
filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently set for June 11, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to order the production of Shehzad Peermahomed (“Peermahomed”),
who is currently incarcerated in a state prison facility, for deposition.  Schuelke asks the Court to deny the motion. 
Schuelke
asks the Court to continue the trial to September 9, 2024.  Plaintiff asks the Court to deny the motion. LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Motion to produce inmate for deposition 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1995 provides: 
“If the witness be a prisoner, confined in a jail
within this state, an order for his examination in the jail upon deposition, or
for his temporary removal and production before a court or officer may be made
as follows: 
“1. By the court itself in which the action or special
proceeding is pending, unless it be a small claims court. 
“2. By a justice of the Supreme Court, or a judge of
the superior court of the county where the action or proceeding is pending, if
pending before a small claims court, or before a judge or other person out of
court.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1995.) 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 1996 provides: 
“Such order can only be made on the motion of a party,
upon affidavit showing the nature of the action or proceeding, the testimony
expected from the witness, and its materiality.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1996.) 
          Penal Code section 2623 provides: 
“If in a civil action or special proceeding a witness
be a prisoner, confined in a state prison within this state, an order for the
prisoner’s examination in the prison by deposition may be made. 
“1. By the court itself in which the action or special
proceeding is pending, unless it be a small claims court. 
“2. By a judge of the superior court of the county
where the action or proceeding is pending, if pending before a small claims
court or before a judge or other person out of court. 
“Such order can only be made on the motion of a party,
upon affidavit showing the nature of the action or proceeding, the testimony
expected from the witness, and its materiality. The deposition, when ordered,
shall be taken in accordance with Section 2622.” 
(Pen. Code, § 2623.) 
B.   Motion to continue trial 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 provides: 
“(a)
Trial dates are firm 
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases, the
dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their counsel must regard
the date set for trial as certain. 
“(b) Motion or application 
“A party seeking a continuance of the date set for
trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the parties, must
make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte
application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with supporting
declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon as
reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered. 
“(c) Grounds for continuance 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include: 
“(1)  The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances; 
“(2)  The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
“(3)  The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
“(4)  The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice; 
“(5)  The
addition of a new party if: 
“(A)  The new
party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for
trial; or 
“(B)  The other
parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare
for trial in regard to the new party's involvement in the case; 
“(6)  A party's
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; or 
“(7)  A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial. 
“(d) Other factors to be considered 
“In ruling on a motion or application for continuance,
the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to
the determination. These may include: 
“(1)  The
proximity of the trial date; 
“(2)  Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party; 
“(3)  The length
of the continuance requested; 
“(4)  The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 
“(5)  The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; 
“(6)  If the
case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status
and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
“(7)  The
court's calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending
trials; 
“(8)  Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; 
“(9)  Whether all parties have stipulated to a
continuance; 
“(10)  Whether
the interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and 
“(11)  Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332.) 
C.      Request to continue or reopen discovery 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2024.020 provides: 
“(a) Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any
party shall be entitled as a matter of right to complete discovery proceedings
on or before the 30th day, and to have motions concerning discovery heard on or
before the 15th day, before the date initially set for the trial of the action. 
“(b) Except as provided in Section 2024.050, a
continuance or postponement of the trial date does not operate to reopen
discovery proceedings.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2024.020.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2024.050 provides: 
“(a) On motion of any party, the court may grant leave
to complete discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery
heard, closer to the initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new
trial date has been set. This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(b) In exercising its discretion to grant or deny
this motion, the court shall take into consideration any matter relevant to the
leave requested, including, but not limited to, the following: 
“(1) The necessity and the reasons for the discovery. 
“(2) The diligence or lack of diligence of the party
seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons
that the discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was not heard
earlier. 
“(3) Any likelihood that permitting the discovery or
hearing the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the
date set, or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in
prejudice to any other party. 
“(4) The length of time that has elapsed between any
date previously set, and the date presently set, for the trial of the action. 
“(c) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to extend or to reopen
discovery, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2024.050.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Plaintiff’s motion to produce inmate for deposition 
Plaintiff
wishes to depose Peermahomed, who is currently incarcerated at Sierra
Conservation Center and is not eligible for parole until April 2028. According
to Plaintiff, Peermahomed was a manager for Schuelke and was the first person
Castel, a Schuelke employee, spoke with on the phone after Castel’s collision
with Plaintiff’s vehicle. Peermahomed also provided information for Schuelke’s
discovery responses. The litigation coordinator at Sierra Conservation Center
has stated that he can produce Peermahomed for a deposition if Plaintiff
obtains a court order. 
Plaintiff
“anticipates that Mr. Peermahomed will provide testimony regarding the
circumstances surrounding the accident, as well as provide elaborating
testimony about all of the information asked of Defendant Castel, Jim Schuelke,
and David Schuelke, that all 3 deponents were unable to do so and stated Mr.
Peermahomed could answer.”  (Sarin
Goncuian Dec. ¶ 24.) 
Schuelke
opposes the motion, arguing that “Plaintiff has failed to sufficiently specify
the expected testimony and has not/cannot demonstrate the materiality of the
testimony” for purposes of Code of Civil Procedure section 1996 and Penal Code
section 2623.  Schuelke observes that (1)
Peermahomed did not observe the accident and (2)
it is undisputed that Castel was in the course and scope of his employment with
Schuelke when the accident took place.  Therefore,
Schuelke argues, Peermahomed can provide no relevant testimony on liability or
damages issues. 
In
reply, Plaintiff argues that Peermahomed’s
testimony can help determine if Castel was driving under the influence by
describing the tone of Castel’s voice during the phone call and testifying
whether Castel’s speech was slurred and whether Castel made any admissions.  Plaintiff also wishes to question Peermahomed
about a written statement which Castel discussed at his deposition but which Plaintiff
has not received. 
The Court
finds that Plaintiff has satisfied the statutory requirements by describing the
subjects about which he wishes to examine Peermahomed
and explaining the materiality of Peermahomed’s anticipated testimony.  The Court grants the motion. 
B.   Schuelke’s motion to continue trial and related dates 
Schuelke
asks the Court to continue the trial and related dates because (1) Plaintiff’s
counsel recently informed Schuelke's counsel that Plaintiff will undergo hip replacement surgery,
(2) Schulke's counsel has tried without success to subpoena documents from the doctor who
recommended the hip replacement surgery, and (3) Schuelke wishes to conduct an additional independent
medical examination of Plaintiff. 
Plaintiff
opposes the motion, arguing (1) trial has previously been continued three times,
(2) Schuelke has long been aware of Plaintiff’s hip injury and potential need
for hip replacement surgery, and (3) Plaintiff has already submitted to two
independent medical examinations, including one orthopedic examination that
included an examination of Plaintiff’s hip. 
The
Court finds good cause and continues the trial to September 9, 2024 with discovery and related dates to be based on the new trial date. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff Alexander
Hallstead’s motion for an order to produce inmate Shehzad Peermahomed for
deposition testimony.  The Court ORDERS that inmate Shehzad Peermahomed be produced for deposition testimony. The
Court GRANTS the motion of Defendant Schuelke, Inc., erroneously sued and
served as Schueleke, Inc., to continue the trial and related dates. The Court continues
the trial to September 9, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. in Department 28 of the Spring
Street Courthouse. The Court continues the Final Status Conference to August 26, 2024, at 10:00 a.m. in Department
28 of the Spring Street Courthouse. All discovery and related dates will be based
on the new trial date. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of these rulings. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proofs of service of these rulings with the Court
within five days.