 Case Number:  21STCV03830    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposing and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
January 29, 2021, Plaintiff Jane Doe (“Plaintiff”), a
minor, by and through her guardian ad litem, Renee Noye, filed this action
against Defendants Long Beach Unified School District, Jane Does 1-15, and Does
16-100 for negligence, intentional infliction of emotional distress, negligent
infliction of emotional distress, and negligence. 
On
May 31, 2022, the Court appointed Renee Noye to serve as Plaintiff’s guardian
ad litem. 
On
August 9, 2022, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint against Defendants Long Beach Unified School
District, Jane Does 1-15, and Does 16-100 for negligent supervision of
students, intentional infliction of emotional distress, negligent infliction of
emotional distress, and negligence. 
On
October 8, 2022, Defendant Long Beach Unified School District (“Defendant”)
filed an answer.
On
January 31, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to compel Plaintiff’s mental
examination, to be heard on April 23, 2024.  On April 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition.  On April 15, 2024, Defendant
filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for September 24, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendant asks the Court to order Plaintiff to appear
for a neuropsychological exam with Dr. Roger Light, a board-certified
forensic psychiatrist, on May 20 and 21, 2024, from 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. at
The Light Center, 1650 S. Pacific Coast Hwy, Suite 310, Redondo Beach,
California.  Defendant also asks the Court to order that (1) Plaintiff may not make an audio-recording of the testing portion of the examination and (2) Dr. Light is not required to provide the raw testing data to Plaintiff's counsel. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to order that (1) Plaintiff may make an audio recording of the
entire examination and (2) Defendant's examining doctor must provide a copy of the detailed
written report and raw data within 30 days of the examination. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.310
provides: 
“(a) If any
party desires to obtain discovery by a physical examination other than that
described in Article 2 (commencing with Section 2032.210), or by a mental
examination, the party shall obtain leave of court. 
“(b) A motion
for an examination under subdivision (a) shall specify the time, place, manner,
conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well as the identity and
the specialty, if any, of the person or persons who will perform the
examination. The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration
under Section 2016.040. 
“(c) Notice
of the motion shall be served on the person to be examined and on all parties
who have appeared in the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310.) 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.320 provides in
part: 
“(a) The
court shall grant a motion for a physical or mental examination under Section
2032.310 only for good cause shown. 
* * *
 “(d) An order
granting a physical or mental examination shall specify the person or persons
who may perform the examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic
tests and procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination. 
“(e) If the
place of the examination is more than 75 miles from the residence of the person
to be examined, an order to submit to it shall be entered only if both of the
following conditions are satisfied: 
“(1) The
court determines that there is good cause for the travel involved. 
“(2) The
order is conditioned on the advancement by the moving party of the reasonable
expenses and costs to the examinee for travel to the place of examination.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subds. (a), (d), (e).) 

DISCUSSION 
A.   Defendant’s motion to compel mental examination 
Defendant
moves for leave of court to conduct a neuropsychological examination of
Plaintiff, asserting that Plaintiff has put her mental and psychiatric
condition in controversy and Plaintiff’s allegations of psychological injuries,
emotional trauma, depression, anxiety, and depression establish good cause. 
Defendant
also asks for orders that (1) the testing
portion of the assessment may not be audio-recorded and (2) Dr. Light is not
required to release the raw testing data to Plaintiff’s counsel. 
Plaintiff
opposes the motion, arguing that Plaintiff attended a defense medical examination
with Dr. Light on December 7, 2023. 
However, at Plaintiff’s counsel’s instruction, Plaintiff left the
examination when Dr. Light would not allow Plaintiff to audio record the entire
examination and refused to produce a detailed report—including the examination
findings, raw testing data, diagnosis, prognosis, and conclusions—to Plaintiff’s
counsel within 30 days.  According to
Plaintiff, Defendant’s demand for another examination is improper, burdensome,
and harassing. 
The
Court finds good cause and grants the motion. 
The Court orders Plaintiff to
appear for a neuropsychological exam with Dr. Light on May 20 and 21, 2024,
from 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. at The Light Center, 1650 S. Pacific Coast Hwy,
Suite 310, Redondo Beach, California, or at another mutually agreeable date and time. 
B.       Audio recording of examination 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2032.530, subdivision (a), provides that “The
examiner and examinee shall have the right to record a mental examination by
audio technology.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.530, subd. (a).)  “[S]ince section
2032.530, subdivision (a) grants the examinee the right to record a mental
examination by audio technology, it implies the examinee may retain a copy of
the audio recording.”  (Randy's
Trucking, Inc. v. Superior Court (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 818, 837 (Randy’s
Trucking).)  Defendant
asserts that Plaintiff may not audio-record the testing portion of the
assessment.  But the plain language of
the statute allows Plaintiff to use audio technology to record the examination
without imposing any limitations.  Defendant
cites no legal authority that would allow the Court to limit Plaintiff’s rights
under Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.530, subdivision (a), based on the policy
considerations Defendant advances. 
The Court denies Defendant’s request for an order preventing
Plaintiff from recording the testing portion of the examination.  The Court invites the parties to submit a
stipulated protective order restricting the dissemination of information
contained in the audio recording for the Court’s approval. 
C.      Raw data 
In Randy's
Trucking, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th 818, the trial court granted the
defendants’ motion to compel the plaintiff’s mental examination by a
neuropsychologist.  (Id. at p.
824.)  The court denied the defendants’
request to transfer the testing information to the plaintiffs’ expert rather
than the plaintiffs’ counsel.  (Id.
at p. 832.)  Instead, the court ordered
the neuropsychologist to provide an audio recording of the examination and
“‘all raw data’” to the plaintiffs’ counsel within 30 days after the
examination subject to a protective order. 
(Ibid.)  The defendants
petitioned for a writ of mandate.  (Id.
at p. 825.) 
The
Court of Appeal denied writ relief.  (Randy’s
Trucking, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at p. 825.)  The court observed, “[t]here is no statutory
authority . . . precluding a trial court from ordering the disclosure of test
materials or test data when ordering a mental examination.”  (Id. at p. 834, citing Carpenter v.
Superior Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 249, 271.)  And “given the trial court’s broad discretion
in discovery matters, the trial court . . . has the power to order disclosure
of test materials and data to plaintiff’s attorney.”  (Id. at p. 835.)  Therefore, the trial court had discretion to
order the production to the plaintiffs’ counsel of the raw data and audio
recording.  (Id. at p. 837.) 
The
defendants argued the trial court abused its discretion because the need to
protect the neuropsychologist from violating her ethical and professional
obligations outweighed the plaintiffs’ need for the raw data and audio
recording. (Randy’s Trucking, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at p.
837.)  But the neuropsychologist “did not
explain why her ethical obligations would be violated if a court ordered her to
disclose the raw data and audio recording to plaintiffs’ attorney subject to a
protective order.”  (Id. at pp.
837-838.) 
The
Court of Appeal reasoned that, “[w]ithout
the raw data and audio recording, [the plaintiffs] cannot effectively
scrutinize the way the data was collected, determine if there are
discrepancies, and cross-examine the neuropsychologist on the basis and reasons
for the neuropsychologist’s opinion.”  (Randy’s
Trucking, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at p. 838.)  Moreover, the plaintiffs “should not be
forced to retain an expert to gain access to these materials and even if they
do retain one, that expert can only assist the attorney in preparing for
cross-examination; to prepare and conduct an effective cross-examination, ‘the
attorney must themselves possess more than a second-hand understanding of the
information being scrutinized.’ ”  (Ibid.) 
Here
too, the Court concludes that Plaintiff has a legitimate need for the raw data
and the concerns about maintaining test security can be satisfied with a
protective order.  (See Randy’s
Trucking, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at p. 838.)  The Court exercises
its discretion and orders release of the raw data to Plaintiff’s attorney
subject to a protective order.  (See id.
at p. 842.)  
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS IN PART the motion of Defendant Long Beach Unified School District
to compel Plaintiff Jane Doe, a minor, by and through her guardian ad litem,
Renee Noye, to attend a neuropsychological examination.  The Court orders Plaintiff Jane Doe to attend
a neuropsychological examination with Dr. Roger Light on May 20 and 21, 2024,
from 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. at The Light Center, 1650 S. Pacific Coast Hwy,
Suite 310, Redondo Beach, California, or at another mutually agreeable date and time. 
The
Court DENIES Defendant Long Beach Unified School District’s request for an
order preventing Plaintiff Jane Doe from using audio technology to record the testing portion of the
examination.  The Court orders Defendant Long Beach Unified School District and its examining doctor to permit Plaintiff to use audio technology to record the entire examination, including the testing portion. 
The
Court DENIES Defendant Long Beach Unified School District’s request for an
order permitting its examining doctor to release the raw testing data only to
Plaintiff Jane Doe’s expert.  The Court
orders Defendant Long Beach Unified School District’s examining doctor to
release the raw testing data to Plaintiff Jane Doe’s counsel subject to a
protective order along with the examining doctor's detailed written report within 30 days after the examination. 
The
tests are limited to the following: 
Advanced
Clinical Solutions for WAIS and WMS, Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale, WASI,
CTONI, Wechsler Test of Adult Reading, Word Fluency Test, Shipley, TONI, WRAT,
RAVLT, CVLT-II, Memory Assessment Scale, Recognition Memory Test, WMS, TOMM,
WMT, Rey 15 Item test & Recognition, ACT, Trails A & B, Color Trails 1
& 2, CPT, B- test, Dot Counting Test, PASAT, Validity Indicator Profile,
Grooved Pegboard Test, Symbol Digit Modalities Test, Frontal Systems Behavioral
Scale, BRIEF, DAPS, Psychiatric Diagnosis Screening Questionnaire, Verbal
Fluency (FAS), Delis-Kaplan Executive Function System, Finger Tapping Test,
Grip strength, PPVT, Rey Complex Figure & Recognition, Category Test, WCST,
BDI-II, BAI, MMPI 2 or RF, Battery for Health Improvement-II, Stroop, Visual
Form Discrimination, Boston Naming Test, Beery, Boston Diagnostic Aphasia Exam,
Reitan-Klove sensory perceptual exam, MOCA 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.