 Case Number:  22VECV02506    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  W NORMA PERPLIES
v. CITY OF LOS ANGELES, et al.
 
motion FOR
SUMMARY JUDGMENT  
 
Date of Hearing:        February
22, 2024                 Trial Date:       October 14, 2024
Department:              W                                            Case
No.:        22VECV02506
 
Moving Party:            Defendant
City of Los Angeles
Responding Party:     Plaintiff Norma Perplies         
 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 21, 2022, Plaintiff Norma
Perplies filed a complaint against the City of Los Angeles, County of Los
Angeles, Alexander Castillo, Teresita P. Castillo, and Carmelita S. Castillo
for statutory liability/dangerous condition of public property, premises
liability, and negligence. Plaintiff alleges on June 27, 2022, while walking on
the sidewalk, Plaintiff slipped/tripped due to fruits that were negligently and
carelessly left on the sidewalk. Plaintiff alleges this caused Plaintiff to
fall and violently land on raised roots which then caused Plaintiff to break
her left hip, left femur, and left wrist. Plaintiff dismissed the County of Los
Angeles on May 2, 2023. 
 
On February 1, 2023, the Castillo
Defendants filed a complaint against the City and County of Los Angeles for
indemnity, apportionment, and declaratory relief. The Castillo Defendants
dismissed the County of Los Angeles on May 19, 2023. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant City of Los Angeles’ Motion for Summary Judgment as to
Plaintiff’s Complaint and Defendant Property Owners Eghbali’s Cross-Complaint
is GRANTED, IN PART. 
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff requests this court take judicial notice of the following
documents: (1) City of Los Angeles Municipal Code section 62.00 (Exh. A); and
(2) City of Los Angeles Municipal Code section 62.163 (Exh. B.) The court
GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant City of Los Angeles moves this court for summary
judgment pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §437c in favor of Defendant City
and against Plaintiff Norma Perplies’ causes of action against the City for premises
liability and dangerous condition of public property and against Cross-Complainant
Castillo Property Owners for claims against the City for equitable indemnity
and contribution.
 
¿A party seeking summary judgment has the burden of producing
evidentiary facts sufficient to entitle him/her to judgment as a matter of law.
(CCP § 437c(c).) The moving party must make an affirmative showing that he/she
is entitled to judgment irrespective of whether or not the opposing party files
an opposition. (Villa v. McFerren (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 733, 742- 743.)
Thus, “the initial burden is always on the moving party to make prima facie
showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519 (citing Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.). When a plaintiff seeks
summary judgment, he/she must produce admissible evidence on each element of
each cause of action on which judgment is sought. (CCP § 437c(p)(1).) The
moving party’s “affidavits must cite evidentiary facts, not legal conclusions
or ‘ultimate’ facts” and the courts must construe the evidence in support of
the opposing party, resolving any doubts in favor of the opposing party. (Hayman
v. Block (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 629, 639; Scalf, 128 Cal.App.4th at
1519; Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384,
389.)  
 
The opposing party on a motion for summary judgment is under no
evidentiary burden to produce rebuttal evidence until the moving party meets
his or her initial movant’s burden. (Binder v. Aetna Life Insurance Company
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 840.) Once the initial movant’s burden is met, then
the burden shifts to the opposing party to show, with admissible evidence, that
there is a triable issue requiring the weighing procedures of trial. (CCP §
437c(p).) The opposing party may not simply rely on his/her allegations to show
a triable issue but must present evidentiary facts that are substantial in
nature and rise beyond mere speculation. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 162.) Summary judgment must be granted “if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  
 
i.                   
Dangerous Condition 
 
To hold a public entity liable for injury caused by a dangerous
condition, a plaintiff must prove (1) that the property was a dangerous
condition at the time of the injury, (2) that the injury was proximately caused
by the dangerous condition, (3) that the dangerous condition created a
reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury which was incurred, and (4)
that either a negligent or wrongful act or omission of an employee of the
public entity within the scope of his employment created the dangerous condition
or the public entity had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous
condition and sufficient time prior to the injury to have taken measures to
protect against the dangerous condition. 
(Gov. Code §835.) 
 
A condition is not a dangerous condition if, viewing the evidence
most favorably to the plaintiff, the risk created by the condition was of such
a minor, trivial or insignificant nature in view of the surrounding
circumstances that no reasonable person would conclude that the condition
created a substantial risk of injury when used with due care in a manner in
which it was reasonably foreseeable that it would be used.  (Gov. Code §830.2.) 
 
City Defendant first argues to plead a dangerous condition
existed, Plaintiff must establish a physical deficiency in the property itself.
As such, Plaintiff’s allegations that “the SUBJECT SIDEWALK was in a
dangerously defective condition because of the fruits that were negligently and
carelessly left on the sidewalk[]” does not amount to a dangerous condition. City
Defendant cites Cerna v. City of Oakland (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 1340 to
support their condition. In Cerna, the court held “[a] plaintiff's
allegations, and ultimately the evidence, must establish a physical deficiency
in the property itself. [Citation.] A dangerous condition exists when public
property ‘is physically damaged, deteriorated, or defective in such a way as to
foreseeably endanger those using the property itself,’ or possesses physical characteristics
in its design, location, features or relationship to its surroundings that
endanger users. [Citation.]” (Cerna, supra, 161 Cal.App.4th at p.
1347–1348.) The court further held “[a] public entity may be liable for a
dangerous condition of public property even where the immediate cause of
plaintiff's injury is a third party's negligent or illegal act (like Urzua's
grossly negligent driving) if some physical characteristic of the property exposes
its users to increased danger from third party negligence or criminality.” (Id.
at p. 1348.) As such, the court found no dangerous condition existed when an
unlicensed motorist struck six pedestrians as they walked in a marked crosswalk
at an intersection. There, the plaintiffs contended the intersection was
dangerous because: (1) the crosswalk was painted white, not yellow; (2) there
was no sign painted in the approaching roadway with the words “SLOW—SCHOOL
XING”; (3) there was no traffic signal; (4) there were no crossing guards; (5)
signs warning of the presence of student pedestrians were either missing or in
an incorrect position; (6) the crosswalk was not painted with diagonal or
longitudinal lines; and (7) there were no blinking lights in the pavement along
the parallel painted lines of the crosswalk. (Ibid.) 
 
City Defendant further argues natural vegetation has been found to
not amount to a dangerous condition of public property. In Burnett v. City
of San Diego (1954) 127 Cal.App.2d 191, 196, the court found “the
construction and continued use of an outside stairway, upon which leaves and
tree droppings will naturally fall, standing alone, cannot be held sufficient
to impose liability upon a city[.]” (Burnett v. City of San Diego (1954)
127 Cal.App.2d 191, 196.) As such, City Defendant contends the benjamina ficus
tree’s natural dropping of seedpods is similarly not a dangerous condition
sufficient to trigger liability under Government Code §835 as a matter of law.
City Defendant also argues the presence of seedpods on the sidewalk is trivial
in nature and the lack of prior accidents shows the alleged condition both
trivial and not dangerous. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues the City of Los Angeles Municipal
Code imposed a mandatory duty on the City of Los Angeles to inspect the tree to
determine whether it was a danger to people walking along the sidewalk. But the
City of Los Angeles failed to take any measures to abide by that duty, and this
failure caused Perplies’ injuries. Plaintiff further argues even absent that
mandatory duty, the presence of a foreign tree on an improved public parkway is
a dangerous condition of public property. Plaintiff relies on Los Angeles
Municipal Code section 62.163, which provides: “It shall be the duty of the
Board to … (c) To inspect any and all trees, shrubs and plants which are in any
street in said City, or which, standing on any private estate, overhang or
project into any such street, to determine whether any of the same or any part
thereof appears to be dead, liable to fall, dangerous or an obstruction to
public travel on any such street.” Despite this, Plaintiff contends the City had
no policies, procedures, or guidelines for inspecting to determine whether the
area where Plaintiff fell was in a dangerous condition nor did the City conduct
any inspections before Plaintiff’s fall other than a generalized inventory
conducted by a third party. Despite the “generalized inventory” finding the
roots of the weeping fig were likely exposed to the surface, Plaintiff contends
the City did no maintenance work related to the tree. Moreover, the City failed
to remove the dead tree adjacent to the fig tree as required by city
guidelines. 
 
Plaintiff further argues natural occurring mud, vegetable matter,
moss and slime as a dangerous condition is a question of fact. In Rowland v.
City of Pomona (1947) 82 Cal.App.2d 622, the court found the evidence that
deposits of mud, vegetable matter, moss and slime had accumulated in the gutter
along with evidence that other accidents had occurred at the same place was
sufficient evidence to show a dangerous condition. (Rowland v. City of
Pomona (1947) 82 Cal.App.2d 622, 625.) Moreover, Plaintiff contends the exposed
tree root, combined with the accumulation of seed pods on the sidewalk, constituted
a dangerous condition of public property. (See Cordova v. City of Los
Angeles (2015) 61 Cal.4th 1099, 1107.) 
 
The court finds a triable issue of material fact exists as to
whether a dangerous condition existed. Whether a condition is dangerous is a
question of fact unless the court determines that no reasonable person would
conclude the condition created a substantial risk of injury when used with due
care in a reasonably foreseeable way after considering the evidence most
favorably to the Plaintiff. (Lane v. City of Sacramento (2010) 183
Cal.App.4th 1337, 1344.) Here, the undisputed facts are Plaintiff slipped on
one or more seedpod(s) from a parkway ficus tree, on the sidewalk. Based on
these undisputed facts, it cannot be said that no reasonable person would
conclude the condition created a substantial risk of injury in view of these
facts. Unlike Cerna, Plaintiff here has presented evidence the Davey
Resource Group, on behalf of the City of Los Angeles, conducted an inventory of
the weeping fig and found the trees roots were exposed. As such, a reasonable
jury could find the public sidewalk had ‘increased or intensified’ the danger
to users. 
 
Notice 
 
City Defendant next argues even if the seedpod(s) could be deemed
dangerous, there is no evidence the City had actual or constructive notice of a
dangerous condition in sufficient time to be able to remedy it as required by Government
Code §835. Likewise, Plaintiff cannot raise a triable issue as to constructive
notice. 
 
City Defendant contends Plaintiff cannot prove the City actually
knew about the seedpods on the sidewalk and recognized that these seedpods
created dangerous condition. Moreover, City Defendant contends because Plaintiff
has no evidence of the dangerous character of the actual seedpod on which she
slipped or when it fell from the tree, she will be unable to sustain her burden
of proof, making summary judgment proper.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues the City had at least constructive
notice of the dangerous conditions which caused Plaintiff’s injuries. “A public
entity has ‘constructive notice of a dangerous condition’ ‘only if’ (1) ‘the
condition had existed for’ some period of time prior to the plaintiff's
accident, and (2) ‘the condition ... was of such an obvious nature that the
public entity, in the exercise of due care, should have discovered the
condition and its dangerous character.’” (Martinez v. City of Beverly Hills
(2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 508, 519.) 
 
City Defendant does not proffer evidence it did not have
constructive notice. Instead, both parties agree the ficus tree in the parkway
adjacent to a residential sidewalk was present in 1987 when Mr. Castillo and
family moved in. Moreover, Plaintiff has presented evidence the dangerous
condition was of such an obvious nature that the public entity, in the exercise
of due care, should have discovered the condition and its dangerous character.
Plaintiff also presents evidence of whether constructive notice existed given
an inspection is mandatory yet the City had no system in place for regular
inspections. As such, City Defendant has not met its burden showing that there
are no triable issues of fact regarding the element of constructive
notice.   
 
ii.                 
Premises Liability
 
City Defendant argues Plaintiff’s theories of liability and cause
of action for Premises Liability should be dismissed as a matter of law because
the exclusive basis for recovery based on the condition of the public entity’s
property is Government Code § 835.
 
Plaintiff does not address this argument in their opposition. The
cause of action does not allege that Defendant violated Government Code section
835 or any other statutory liability through its failure to properly maintain
the subject sidewalk. 
 
Accordingly, City Defendant’s Motion for Summary Adjudication as
to the second cause of action is GRANTED. 
 
iii.               
Property Owners’ Cross-Complaint
 
City Defendant argues because Plaintiff has no viable claim
against the City, Cross-Complainant has no viable claim for equitable indemnity
against the City since there must be a basis for tort liability of the proposed
indemnitor in order to prevail on a claim for equitable indemnity against the
City.
 
Because the first cause of action survives, so does the Property
Owners’ Cross-Complaint. 