 Case Number:  23VECV02099    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  W ARAZ ARABIAN v.
ALEJANDRO HUGO NAVARRO
 
DEFENDANT
ALEJANDRO HUGO NAVARRO'S MOTION TO STRIKE PUNITIVE DAMAGES FROM PLAINTIFF'S COMPLAINT
 
Date of Hearing:        February
22, 2024                             Trial
Date:       N/A

Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        23VECV02099
 
Moving Party:            Defendant
Alejandro Hugo Navarro 
Responding Party:     Plaintiff
Araz Arabian 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On May 12, 2023, Plaintiff Araz Arabian
filed a complaint against Defendant Alejandro Hugo Navarro for negligence and
negligence per se. This action arises out of a motor vehicle collision that
occurred on May 14, 2021 when Defendant allegedly caused his vehicle to collide
with Plaintiff’s vehicle, causing Plaintiff injuries. Plaintiff further alleges
Defendant operated his vehicle while under the influence of alcohol. 
 
Plaintiff filed a first amended
complaint on December 4, 2024. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant Alejandro Hugo Navarro’s
Motion to Strike Punitive Damages from Plaintiff’s Complaint is DENIED. 
 
discussion
 
Defendant Alejandro Hugo Navarro moves
the court for an order striking punitive damages and exemplary damages from
Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint on the ground Plaintiff does not adequately
allege facts necessary to demand punitive damages. 
 
In order to state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a
complaint must set forth the elements as stated in the general punitive damage
statute, Civil Code section 3294. (College Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  These statutory elements include allegations
that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud or malice. (Civ. Code §
3294(a).) Allegations that a defendant exhibited a conscious disregard for
the safety of others are sufficient to show malice. (Taylor v. Superior
Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 895-96.) In Taylor, the court concluded
that the act of operating a motor vehicle while intoxicated may constitute an
act of “malice” under section 3294 if performed under circumstances which
disclose a conscious disregard of the probable dangerous consequences. “One who
wilfully consumes alcoholic beverages to the point of intoxication, knowing
that he thereafter must operate a motor vehicle, thereby combining sharply
impaired physical and mental faculties with a vehicle capable of great force
and speed, reasonably may be held to exhibit a conscious disregard of the
safety of others.” (Id., at p. 897.)
 
The court previously sustained Defendant’s motion to strike on the
grounds the complaint failed to allege Defendant’s level of intoxication or any
“aggravating factors” in compliance with Dawes. (November 3, 2023 Minute
Order.) The court found “[a]t most, Defendant Navarro showed signs of
intoxication, admitted to drinking and driving, and was arrested. As such, the
facts pleaded in the complaint do not warrant the imposition of punitive
damages.” (November 3, 2023.) 
 
Defendant now argues the allegations are still conclusory as the
only new allegations by Plaintiff are: (1)
Defendant’s level of intoxication beyond the legal limit of O.08%; (2) Defendant’s conviction for violating
California Vehicle Code sections 23153(a) and 40300.5; and (3) Defendant’s sentencing. As such, the
available facts in Plaintiff’s complaint do not demonstrate the requisite for
punitive damages. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff first argues
the motion to strike is untimely. A motion to strike any pleading must be filed
“within the time allowed to respond to a pleading”—e.g., 30 days after service
of the complaint or cross-complaint unless extended by court order or
stipulation. (CCP § 435(b)(1).) Plaintiff filed his first amended complaint on December
4, 2023. Defendant’s deadline to file the motion to strike was January 4, 2024.
Instead, Defendant filed it on January 18, 2024. Moreover, the court finds Defendant
did not meet and confer in good faith. Before filing a motion to strike, the moving
party shall meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference
with the party who filed the pleading. (CCP §435.5.) Defendant sent an e-mail
one day before filing the motion to strike. It is unclear how Defense counsel
intended a reasonable, good faith attempt at informally resolving any issues
with the FAC. 
 
Regardless, the court finds Plaintiff
has sufficiently alleged facts to support a claim for punitive damages. When
the gravamen of a complaint is that defendant became intoxicated and then drove
a car in that condition, despite knowing of the safety hazard he created,
punitive damages can be awarded. (Taylor v. Super. Ct. (1979) 24
Cal.3d 890, 857.)  As noted above, however, the risk of injury to
others from ordinary driving while intoxicated is certainly foreseeable, but it
is not necessarily probable. (Dawes v. Sup. Ct.¿(1980) 111 Cal.App.3d
82, 89.) The complaint alleges more than one who generally became intoxicated
than drove. Rather, the complaint alleges Defendant Navarro operated his
Vehicle while under the influence of alcohol with a blood alcohol level of at
least 0.08%; drove at speeds in excess of 100 miles per hour; attempted to
cross over multiple lanes of traffic; and Defendant was convicted for
violations of California Vehicle Code section 23153(b). This is sufficient at
the pleading stage. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to
strike is DENIED. 