 Case Number:  23VECV03505    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  W BRUCE EDWARD ALTSCHULD v. KAIVAN
NOWNEJAD, et al. 
 
defendant’s demurrer to the FIRST AMENDED complaint with
motion to strike 
 
Date
of Hearing:        February
22, 2024                             Trial
Date:       N/A

Department:              W                                                         Case No.:        23VECV03505
 
Moving
Party:            Defendants Kaivan
Nownejad and Saturn New Generation LLC 
Responding
Party:     Plaintiffs Camille Altschuld and
Kaivan Nownejad 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On November 2, 2023, Plaintiffs Bruce
Altschuld and Camille Altschuld filed a complaint against Defendants Kaivan
Nownejad and Saturn New Generation LLC for Breach of Written Lease Contract; Breach
of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment; Breach of the Implied Warranty of
Habitability; Breach of Statutory
Warranty of Habitability; Negligence; Nuisance; Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress; Violation of California Civil Code §1942.4; Elder Abuse;
Fraud; and Breach of Civil Code §1950. Plaintiffs were tenants pursuant to a
lease agreement with Defendant Saturn New Generation, LLC. Plaintiff alleges
Defendants breached the implied warranty of habitability and committed other
wrongful, tortious acts. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendants’ Demurrer to the Eighth, Ninth, Tenth and Eleventh
Causes of Action is SUSTAINED with 30 days leave to amend. Defendants’ Demurrer
to the Sixth and Seventh and Causes of Action are OVERRULED. Defendants’ Motion
to Strike is GRANTED in part. 
 
discussion
 
Defendants Kaivan Nownejad and Saturn New Generation LLC demur to
the FAC as to the sixth (nuisance), seventh (intentional infliction of
emotional distress), eighth (violation of Civil Code section 1942.4), ninth
(elder abuse), tenth (fraud), and eleventh (breach of statutory requirement to
return security deposit) on the grounds Plaintiffs’ FAC does not state facts sufficient
to constitute causes of action and is uncertain. 
 
Sixth Cause of Action
 
“The essence of a private nuisance is an interference with the use
and enjoyment of land.” (Friends of H Street v. City of Sacramento
(1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 152, 160.) Thus to allege a cause of action for private
nuisance, the plaintiff must allege injury specific to the use and enjoyment of
his land. (See Adams v. MHC Colony Park Limited Partnership (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 601, 610.) Courts
have allowed plaintiffs to litigate nuisance causes of action in cases
involving housing conditions. (See, e.g., Stoiber v. Honeychuck
(1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 919 (tenants could pursue nuisance cause of action
against landlord for uninhabitable conditions).)  Because of the broad
definition of nuisance, whether a cause of action is viable depends on the
facts of each case. (Lussier v. San Lorenzo Valley Water Dist. (1988)
206 Cal.App.3d 92, 104.)  The torts of negligence and nuisance ...
frequently are, coexisting and practically inseparable.... A nuisance in many,
if not in most, instances, especially with respect to buildings or premises,
presupposes negligence.”...’ (Citations.)”  (Id. at 104.) 
 
Defendants demur to the sixth cause of action for nuisance on the
grounds Plaintiff has not established substantial and unreasonable
interference. Moreover, Defendants contend private nuisance supports recovery
only for damage to property or a right incidental thereto (not for personal
injury).
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue the facts pled show that the
Plaintiffs were subject to numerous life threatening/altering conditions - air
conditioner/attic explosion shaking the whole house, master bedroom ceiling broken
open with direct access to the attic, gas leaks, ant infestations, rust in the
faucets, mold infestation, rats etc. 
 
The court finds the sixth cause of action states facts sufficient
to support a claim of nuisance against Defendants. The complaint alleges more
than just damage of personal property and sufficiently alleges substantial and
unreasonable interference. 
 
Seventh Cause of Action
 
The elements for a cause of action for intentional infliction of
emotional distress are (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with
the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing,
emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional
distress; and (3) an actual and proximate causal link between the tortious
conduct and the emotional distress.  (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46
Cal.4th 1035, 1050.)   
 
Defendants argue the FAC fails to allege sufficient facts to
support an inference that Plaintiffs suffered distress of the “substantial
quality or enduring quality” and moreover, makes no allegations stating that they
suffered severe or extreme emotional distress. Defendants also argue Plaintiffs
have not pled any facts to suggest that Defendants engaged in conduct with the
intention of causing them emotional distress, merely conclusory allegations.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues Defendants engaged in a complete
disregard for the lives of the Plaintiffs including an air conditioner
condensing unit in the attic exploded, rippled through the house and was never repaired,
lethal gas leaked through the house and Defendants made no effort to repair the
gas leak, mold infested the house forcing Plaintiff Bruce to go to urgent care
and to be confronted with Defendants' position that mold is not dangerous.
 
The court finds the complaint alleges intentional infliction of
emotional distress for the purposes of a demurrer. When reasonable persons may
differ, it is for the jury, subject to the control of the Court, to determine
whether, in the particular case, the conduct has been sufficiently extreme and
outrageous to result in liability.¿ (Alcorn v. Anbro Engineering, Inc.
(1970) 2 Cal.3d 493, 499.) Here, a reasonable jury could find Defendant acted
with a reasonable disregard when Southern California Gas Company came out to
the building and tagged the laundry room with a red tag as well as Plaintiffs
also informing Defendants of a leak coming from the laundry room and Defendants
did nothing to correct the issue. Plaintiffs allege as a result of Defendants’ reckless
disregard of the probability of causing Plaintiffs’ emotional distress,
Plaintiffs have suffered discomfort, annoyance, anxiety and so on. 
 
Eighth Cause of Action
 
Civil Code section 1942.4 provides that a landlord of a dwelling
may not demand rent, collect rent, issue a notice of a rent increase, or issue
a three-day notice to pay rent or quit if all these conditions exist prior to
the notice or demand: (1) the dwelling “lacks any of the affirmative standard
characteristics listed in Section 1941.1 or violates Section 17920.10 of the
Health and Safety Code, or is deemed and declares substandard as set forth in
section 17920.3 of the Health and Safety Code because conditions listed in that
section exist to an extent that endangers the life, limb, health, property,
safety, or welfare of the public or the occupants of the swelling, (2) a public
officer or employee who is responsible for the enforcement of any housing law,
after inspecting the premises, has notified the landlord or the landlord’s
agent in writing of his or her obligations to abate the nuisance or repair the
substandard conditions, (3) the conditions have existed and have not been
abated 35 days beyond the date of service of the notice by the public officer
or entity, and the delay is without good cause, and (4) the conditions were not
caused by an act or omission of the tenant in violation of Section 1929 or
1941.2. 
 
Defendants demur to the eighth cause of action for violation of
California Civil Code §1942.4 on the grounds Plaintiffs’ FAC presents no facts
that any public housing official inspected the subject property and notified
Defendants to abate the nuisance or repair substandard conditions therein.
Based thereon, Plaintiffs do not allege facts necessary to state a cause of
action for violation of Civil Code, Section 1942.4. Similarly, Plaintiffs’
prayer for relief under this section is similarly inadequate.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues contrary to the demurrer there is
no requirement that a health official declare these issues violate housing
requirements. Rather, the only pleading requirement is that they exist. 
 
The court agrees the complaint fails to allege compliance with
Civil Code section 1942.4. Plaintiff fails to state a cause of action under
Civil Code section 1942.4 because there are no factual allegations that: (1) a
public officer or employee responsible for the enforcement of any housing law,
after an inspection, notified Defendants in writing of any obligations to abate
a nuisance or repair any substandard conditions, or (2) the substandard
conditions have existed and have not been abated 35 days beyond the date that notice
was served and the delay was without good cause. Statutory causes of action
must be pled with particularity. (See Lopez v. Southern Cal. Rapid Transit
Dist. (1985) 40 Cal.3d 780, 795.)  
 
Ninth Cause of Action
 
In order to state a cause of action under the Elder Abuse Act, “a
plaintiff must allege conduct essentially equivalent to conduct that would
support recovery of punitive damages.” (Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 789.) Thus, in order to be entitled to the
heightened remedies set forth in the Elder Abuse Act, the plaintiff must
establish “recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice in the commission of this
abuse” by “clear and convincing evidence.” (See Welf. & Inst. Code §15657.)
Recklessness refers to a subjective state of culpability greater than simple
negligence, which has been described as a deliberate disregard of the high
degree of probability that an injury will occur. Recklessness, unlike
negligence, involves more than inadvertence, incomplete, unskillfulness, or a
failure to take precautions but rather rises to the level of a conscious choice
of a course of action with knowledge of the serious danger to others involved
in it. (Delaney v. Baker (1999) 20 Cal.4th 23, 31-32.) 
 
Defendants demur to the ninth cause of action for elder abuse on
the grounds Plaintiffs’ cause of action for Elder Abuse is not pled with the
requisite specificity and contains no references to the statute violated. Defendants
contend the allegations are unspecified, vague, and uncertain and they do not
rise to a level to sufficiently impute liability.
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue the facts as pled satisfy the
elder abuse pleading requirements and there is no requirement to allege the
elder abuse statute. The court agrees there is no need to allege the elder
abuse statute. However, Plaintiff pleads no factual allegations of
recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice by Defendants to plead a cause of
action for elder abuse as opposed to general negligence. 
 
Tenth Cause of Action
 
Defendants demur to the tenth cause of action for fraud on the
grounds Plaintiff has failed to allege specific facts versus conclusory
statements and assumptions. In addition, Plaintiff’s fraud claim is not pled
with the requisite specificity. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff points to the alleged fraudulent
statements made including the condition of the house. However, the allegations
are vague to when Defendants made the statements, how they were made, and with
what authority. 
 
Eleventh Cause of Action 
 
Defendants demur to the eleventh cause of action for Breach of
Statutory Requirement to Return the Security Deposit on the grounds California
contains no such cause of action for Breach of Statutory Requirement to return
the security deposit. In addition, Plaintiff’s claim is not pled with the
requisite specificity and contains no references to the statute violated.
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue California Civil Code §1950.5
provides that a landlord must within 21 days of a tenant vacating the property
refund their security deposit or provide the tenant with a list of items the
deposit was used for and any remaining security deposit funds. Because the
cause of action is vague as to the statutory authority, the court sustains the
demurrer so Plaintiffs may allege the eleventh cause of action with the
requisite specificity. 
 
Motion to Strike 
 
Defendants move to strike Plaintiffs’ prayer for punitive damage
and request for attorney fees. 
 
Plaintiff points to the leasing agreement for attorney fees. The
court finds this sufficient to support a claim for attorney fees. However, the
court finds the allegations for punitive damages conclusory.   The
allegations supporting a request for punitive damages must be alleged with
specificity; conclusory allegations without sufficient facts are not
enough.  (Smith v. Superior Court, 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1041-1042
(1992).) 
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ motion to strike is GRANTED, in part. 