 Case Number:  23PSCV04012    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  G Defendants Kaiser Foundation Hospitals and Southern
California Permanente Medical Center’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Complaint
 
Respondent: Plaintiffs Desiree Montserrat Rodriguez Chavez,
Jennifer Sofia Rodriguez Chavez, Sergio Jonathan Steve Rodriguez Chavez, and
Adriana Leticia Chavez Haro
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Defendants Kaiser Foundation Hospitals and Southern
California Permanente Medical Center’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Complaint
is CONTINUED to a date to be determined at the
hearing in Department G (Pomona).
 
Defendants’ counsel is also ordered to meet and confer
with Plaintiffs’ counsel regarding the Demurrer and to file a supplemental
declaration describing such meet and confer efforts at least nine (9) court
days before the next scheduled hearing on the Demurrer.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a wrongful death action. On May 31, 2023, the
Kaiser Permanente Ontario Medical Center (KPOMC) admitted Sergio Rodriguez
Jimenez for severe anxiety and suicidal ideation. On June 1, 2023, KPOMC
transferred Rodriguez Jimenez to Aurora Charter Oak Behavioral Health Center
(Aurora) via an ambulance service that was owned and operated by Defendants
American Medical Response Ambulance Service, Inc. (AMR Ambulance Service), American
Medical Response of Inland Empire, Inc. (AMR Inland Empire), American Medical
Response of Southern California, Inc. (AMR Southern California), American
Medical Response West, Inc. (AMR West), American Medical Response, Inc. (AMR), and
Global Medical Response, Inc. (GMR, collectively AMR Defendants). After
arriving at Aurora, Rodriguez Jimenez committed suicide by stabbing himself
with a pair of scissors allegedly obtained from the AMR Defendants’ ambulance.
 
On December 29, 2023, Plaintiffs Desiree Montserrat
Rodriguez Chavez, Jennifer Sofia Rodriguez Chavez, Sergio Jonathan Steve
Rodriguez Chavez, and Adriana Leticia Chavez Haro filed a complaint against
Defendants Kaiser Foundation Hospitals (Kaiser), Southern California Permanente
Medical Center (Permanente), the AMR Defendants, and Does 1-30, alleging the
following causes of action: (1) wrongful death, (2) negligent infliction of
emotional distress (NIED) by Chavez Haro, (3) NIED by Jennifer Rodriguez
Chavez, and (4) survival by Chavez Haro.
 
On March 15, 2024, Kaiser and Permanente filed the present
demurrer. A hearing on the present demurrer is set for May 20, 2024, along with
a case management conference and OSC Re: Failure to File Proof of Service on
May 30, 2024.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Kaiser and Permanente demur to Plaintiffs’
entire Complaint. For the following reasons,
the Court finds parties did not adequately meet and confer.
 
Legal Standard
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41,
subdivision (a), prior to filing a demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet
and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that
is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can
be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”
This section further provides that “the demurring party shall identify all of
the specific causes of action that it believes are subject to demurrer and
identify with legal support the basis of the deficiencies.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(1).)
 
While Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision
(a)(4) makes clear failing to meet and confer is not grounds to overrule a
demurrer, courts “are not required to ignore defects in the meet and confer
process” and if the court determines “no meet and confer has taken place, or
concludes further conferences between counsel would likely be productive, it retains
discretion to order counsel to meaningfully discuss the pleadings with an eye
toward reducing the number of issues or eliminating the need for a demurrer,
and to continue the hearing date to facilitate that effort.” (Dumas v. Los
Angeles County Bd. of Supervisors (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 348, 355 & fn.
3.)
 
Discussion
 
In
this case, Kaiser and Permanente’s counsel stated counsel attempted to meet and
confer by sending an email to Plaintiffs’ counsel on March 7, 2024. (Birtja
Decl., ¶ 2.) Because email communications are not code-compliant means of
meeting and conferring, the Court finds Kaiser and Permanente have failed to
adequately meet and confer. Thus, a continuance of the hearing on their
demurrer is appropriate.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, Kaiser and Permanente’s demurrer is
CONTINUED to a date to be determined at the hearing in Department G
(Pomona).
 
Kaiser and Permanente’s counsel is also ordered to meet and confer with Plaintiffs’
counsel regarding the demurrer and to file a supplemental declaration
describing such meet and confer efforts at least nine (9) court days before the
next scheduled hearing on the demurrer.