 Case Number:  23PSCV01816    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  G Defendants Oceanus Decor  & Flooring, Inc. and Zhigang Cui’s Motion to Set Aside Right to Attach  Order and Quash Writ Respondent: Plaintiff Andes  Harvest, Inc. TENTATIVE RULING Defendants Oceanus Decor  & Flooring, Inc. and Zhigang Cui’s Motion to Set Aside Right to Attach  Order and Quash Writ is GRANTED. BACKGROUND This  is a breach of contract action arising from a series of sublease agreements.  Defendants Cups (DE) LP (Cups) and Wadd-II (TN) LP (Wadd) are alleged to be the  owners of a commercial property in the City of Industry. Since 2001, Defendant  Novolex Holdings, LLC (Novolex) allegedly rented the City of Industry property  from Cups and Wadd and had been subleasing the property to Defendant Oceanus  Decor & Flooring, Inc. (Oceanus) since 2022. In May 2023, Plaintiff Andes  Harvest, Inc. (Andes) agreed to sublease the City of Industry property from  Oceanus. After Andes made a payment of $182,420.08 which included the first  month’s rent and a security deposit, Andes discovered the electrical system for  the City of Industry property had been removed. When Andes demanded return of  first months’ rent and security deposit in June 2023, Oceanus only offered to  return the payment in installments, Novolex denied liability, and Cups and Wadd  both ignored Andes’ demand. On  June 20, 2023, Andes filed a complaint against Cups, Wadd, Novolex, Oceanus,  Zhigang Cui, CBRE, Inc. (CBRE), and Does 1-25, alleging the following causes of  action: (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of implied covenant of good faith  and fair dealing, (3) concealment, (4) conversion, (5) restitution, and (6)  breach of the duty of disclosure. On  November 28, 2023, the Court granted Andes’ application for a right to attach  order and a writ of attachment against Oceanus. On January  16, 2024, the Court granted Oceanus and Cui’s motion to vacate the entry of  default against them. On the same day, Oceanus and Cui filed a cross-complaint  against Andes and Does 1-10, alleging a single cause of action for breach of  contract. On  February 27, 2024, Oceanus and Cui filed the present motion. A hearing on the  motion took place on March 26, 2024.  The  court requested additional briefing from the parties regarding the applicability  of the termination provisions of the original lease.  A post-mediation status conference/trial  setting conference is set for August 8, 2024. EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS The Court rules on Andes’ evidentiary objections as follows:  Andes’s  objections to Cui’s declaration are OVERRULED as to paragraphs 3, 4, 5, 6,  and 7; Andes’ objections to the declaration of Ryan Tsui, Oceanus’s director  of development, are SUSTAINED as to paragraph 2 and OVERRULED as  to paragraph 3; and Andes’ objections to the declaration of Allen Yan, Oceanus’ office manager, are SUSTAINED as to paragraph 9 and OVERRULED as  to paragraph 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8. ANALYSIS Oceanus  and Cui move for the Court to set aside the right to attach order granted on  November 28, 2023, and quash Andes’ writ of attachment. For the following  reasons, the Court GRANTS the motion. Legal Standard Motion to Set Aside and Quash Pursuant  to Code of Civil Procedure section 485.240, subdivision (a), “[a]ny  defendant whose property has been attached pursuant to a writ issued under this  chapter may apply for an order (1) that the right to attach order be set aside,  the writ of attachment quashed, and any property levied upon pursuant to the  writ be released, or (2) that the amount to be secured by the attachment be reduced  as provided in Section 483.015. Such application shall be made by filing with  the court and serving on the plaintiff a notice of motion.” “At  the hearing on the motion, the court shall determine whether the plaintiff is  entitled to the right to attach order or whether the amount to be secured by  the attachment should be reduced. If the court finds that the plaintiff is not  entitled to the right to attach order, it shall order the right to attach order  set aside, the writ of attachment quashed, and any property levied on pursuant  to the writ released.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 485.240, subd. (c).) “The  court's determinations shall be made upon the basis of the pleadings and other  papers in the record; but, upon good cause shown, the court may receive and  consider at the hearing additional evidence, oral or documentary, and  additional points and authorities, or it may continue the hearing for the  production of such additional evidence or points and authorities.” (Code  Civ. Proc., § 485.240, subd. (d).) Application for Right to Attach Order and Writ of  Attachment Attachment  is proper where: (1) “[t]he claim is one upon which an attachment may be  issued;” (2) “plaintiff has established the probable validity of the claim upon  which the attachment is based;” (3) “[t]he attachment is not sought for a  purpose other than the recovery on the claim upon which the attachment is  based;” and (4) “[t]he amount to be secured by the attachment is greater than  zero.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 480.090, subd. (a); see also Bank  of America v. Salinas Nissan, Inc. (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 260, 271 (Salinas  Nissan) [party pursuing attachment remedy carries burden of establishing  grounds justifying attachment, including presenting facts that show probable  validity of underlying claim].)¿ The court may issue an attachment on a claim  for money arising under contract, so long as the amount claimed by the party  seeking attachment is reasonably ascertainable in an amount greater than  $500.00.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 483.010, subd. (a).) “Probable  validity means that ‘more likely than not’ the plaintiff will obtain a judgment  on that claim.” (Santa Clara Waste Water Co. v. Allied World National  Assurance Co. (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 881, 885, citing Code Civ. Proc., §  481.190.) Plaintiff’s application must “be supported by an affidavit or  declaration showing that the applicant, on the facts presented, would be  entitled to a judgment on the claim upon which the attachment is based.” (Lydig  Construction, Inc. v. Martinez Steel Corp. (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 937, 944,  citing Code Civ. Proc., § 484.030.) The affidavits must set forth facts with  particularity and a verified complaint may be utilized in lieu of such  affidavits. (Code Civ. Proc., § 482.040.) Furthermore, any documentary evidence  must be presented in admissible form. (Id., at p. 944.) Discussion On  August 16, 2023, Andes first applied for a right to attach order and writ of  attachment against Oceanus. On September 21, 2023, the Court denied Andes’ application on the grounds that Andes failed to establish how Oceanus breached  the sublease agreement between Oceanus and Andes. (9/21/2023 Ruling, p. 2.)  While Andes argued the lack of a functioning electrical system failed to  satisfy the required conditions of the City of Industry property, the Court  found Andes failed to demonstrate where those requirements were specified in  the sublease. (9/21/2023 Ruling, p. 2.) On  September 29, 2023, Andes reapplied for a right to attach order and writ of  attachment against Oceanus. On October 19, 2023, the Court continued the  hearing on Andes’s application, finding Andes had still failed to clarify how  Oceanus breached the sublease agreement. (10/19/2023 Ruling, p. 2.) On November  28, 2023, the Court granted Andes’s application after Andes provided additional  evidence and argument in support of its application. (11/28/2023 Ruling, p. 3.)  In arguing Oceanus had breached the sublease agreement by failing to provide a  functioning electrical system, Andes relied on provisions in the original  sublease agreement that stated the leased premises included fixtures such as  electrical and power systems. (11/28/2023 Ruling, p. 3.) Because these fixtures  were not included in the premises as alleged by Andes, the Court found Andes’s  claim that Oceanus breached the sublease agreement had probable validity.  (11/28/2023 Ruling, p. 3.) In  the present motion, Oceanus and Cui seek to invalidate the writ against them on  the grounds that Andes’ cause of action lacks probable validity. They first  argue they were not responsible for the alleged breaches of the lease agreement.  Second, they contend Andes’ alleged grounds for termination of the lease were  not allowed by the lease agreement. Last, they maintain Andes is not entitled  to a writ because Andes' claim for indebtedness is offset by their claim in  their Cross-Complaint. While the Court addresses these contentions below, the  Court will not address any additional arguments raised or evidence submitted in  the supplemental opposition and supplemental reply that were improperly filed  without leave of the Court on March 22, 2024. Oceanus and Cui’s Alleged Breach Oceanus  and Cui argue they did not breach the lease agreement between Oceanus and Andes  for the following reasons: First, they argue they delivered the City of  Industry property to Andes in operational condition (Motion, p. 11:8-24.);  Second, they argue they were not responsible for the damage to the City of  Industry property’s electrical system as the damage was committed by third-party  burglars (Motion, p. 12:1-13, 18:9-13.); and third, they argue Andes was the  one who had a legal duty to protect the City of Industry property from theft  (Motion, p. 13:4-14:6, 17:18-18:1.). In opposition, Andes argues Oceanus and  Cui failed to demonstrate they delivered the City of Industry property to Andes  and that Andes never accepted delivery of the City of Industry property. (Opp.,  p. 4:5-16, 4:25-5:5.) “The  duty of the landlord to deliver possession of the demised premises to the  tenant, in order to entitle him to the payment of rent, does not extend to the  point of requiring actual delivery, and his covenant is satisfied if there is  no impediment to the tenant’s taking possession or if the tenant is given a  legal right of entry and enjoyment during the term.” (Reynolds v. McEwen (1952)  111 Cal.App.2d 540, 542-543.) Further, “a lessee cannot relieve himself from  liability for rent to accrue under an executed lease for a definite term either  by refusing to take possession of the premises or by abandoning the premises  after he has taken possession.” (Id., at p. 543.) Here, Andes does not allege Oceanus failed to  deliver possession of the City of Industry property to Andes. While Andes alleges  Oceanus failed to deliver possession of the City of Industry property by May  15, 2023, as agreed in their sublease agreement, Andes does not allege they  failed to do so after Andes made the required payment of $182,420.08.  (Complaint, ¶ 17-19.) Instead, Andes alleges it never accepted delivery of the City  of Industry property because its electrical systems had been destroyed. (Complaint,  ¶ 19-21; Opp., p. 5:6-13; Lo Decl., ¶ 6, 8, 9.) Thus, Oceanus and Cui’s alleged  breach of the lease agreement occurred when they allegedly failed to provide functioning  electrical systems. In arguing they were not responsible for the  alleged breach, Oceanus and Cui provide the following evidence. In a  declaration, Ryan Tsui, Oceanus’ director of development, described the  maintenance and improvements that had been completed at the City of Industry  property prior to the parties’ signing of the sublease agreement on May 5,  2023, which included ensuring the electrical and power systems of the property were  in working condition. (Tsui Decl., ¶ 2.) On June 1, 2023, Oceanus learned the  City of Industry property had been broken into and reported the alleged  burglary to the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department. (Tsui Decl., ¶ 4  (mistakenly states the date was June 1, 2022); Yan Decl., ¶ 2; Tsui Suppl.  Decl., ¶ 3.) Cui states the damage to the City of Industry property, including  its electrical system, was entirely caused by the burglars’ break-in and  vandalism. (Cui Decl., ¶ 7.) Thus, based on the evidence provided by Oceanus and  Cui, the court finds that Andes’ claim that Oceanus and Cui breached the  sublease agreement by failing to provide a functioning electrical system for  the City of Industry property lacks probable validity as they will likely be  able to establish they were not responsible for the damage to the City of  Industry property’s electrical system. Furthermore, as discussed in detail  below, Andes’ breach of contract claims lack probable validity as Oceanus and  Cui can establish Andes was the breaching party. Andes’ Alleged Breach Oceanus and Cui next contend that Andes was the one  who breached the lease agreement by attempting to terminate the lease when the original  lease agreement’s conditions for termination had not occurred. (Motion, p.  16:21-17:8.) In opposition, Andes contends the termination provisions of the  original lease agreement were not the exclusive means by which Andes could  terminate the lease agreement. (Andes Supp. Brief, p. 4:15-6:10.) Andes also  contends that the original lease agreement’s termination provisions only  applied after Andes took possession of the City of Industry property and do not  apply when Oceanus and Cui have breached the lease. (Andes Suppl. Brief, p.  6:13-7:4.) In interpreting the provisions of a contract, the court  adheres to the following principles: “Where the terms are plain and certain, .  . . the court will be guided by the language used and construe the intention of  the parties to have been in accordance with their agreement.” (Pierce v. Merrill (1900) 128 Cal. 464, 472.) But if the terms  are ambiguous, the court applies “the general rules of interpretation.” (Edwards v. Arthur Andersen LLP (2008) 44 Cal.4th 937, 953.)  In doing so, the Court interprets contracts as a whole “so as to give effect to  every part, if reasonably practicable.” (Civ. Code, § 1641.) “If a contract is  capable of two constructions[,] courts are bound to give such an interpretation  as will make it lawful, operative, definite, reasonable, and capable of being  carried into effect, if that can be done without violating the intention of the  parties.” (Rodriguez v. Barnett (1959)  52 Cal.2d 154, 160.) Here, the parties do not dispute that Oceanus and  Andes’ sublease is governed by the original lease agreement between Cups and  Wadd. In pointing to section 18(a) of the lease agreement, Oceanus and Cui  contend the lease may only be terminated when the following termination events  occur: “If (i) all of any Related Premises shall be taken  by a Taking, (ii) any substantial portion of any Related Premises shall be  taken by a Taking or all or any substantial portion of any Related Premises  shall be totally damaged or destroyed by a Casualty, or (iii) any portion of  any Related Premises be taken by a Taking or damaged or destroyed by a Casualty  and under applicable law such Related Premises cannot be rebuilt to at least  the same square footage and otherwise substantially the same as existed prior  to the Casualty or Condemnation and, in the case of (ii) above, Tenant  certifies and covenants to Landlord that it will cease operations at the  Related Premises for no less than two (2) years . . . then (x) in the case (i)  or (iii) above, Tenant shall be obligated, within thirty (30) days after the  Casualty, as the case may be, and (y) in the case of (ii) above, Tenant shall  have the option, within thirty (30) days after Tenant receives a Condemnation  Notice or thirty (30) days after the Casualty, as the case may be, to give to  Landlord written notice . . . in the form described in Paragraph 18(b) of the  Tenant’s election to terminate this Lease as to the Affected Premises.” (Cui  Decl., Ex. C, § 18(a).) The  lease agreement defines “casualty” as follows: “‘Casualty’ shall mean any injury to or death of any  person or any loss of or damage to any property (including the Leased Premises)  included within or related to the Leased Premises or arising from the Adjoining  Property resulting from a fire or other casualty affecting the Leased Premises  or the Adjoining Property.” (Cui Decl., Ex. C, § 2.) In  this case, Andes and Oceanus both agree that the destruction of the City of  Industry property’s electrical system does not count as a termination event as  defined in section 18(a). (Andes Suppl. Brief, p. 4:4-12; Oceanus Suppl. Brief,  p. 4:21-5:15.) Instead, Andes contends section 18 is not an exhaustive clause  which provides all the circumstances under which Andes can terminate the lease  agreement. (Andes Suppl. Brief, p. 4:15-24.) Andes bases this contention on the  fact that “no language in said section provided that said three scenarios were  the only circumstances where the tenant could terminate the lease.” (Andes  Suppl. Brief, p. 4:19-21.) But this contention fails as the Court does not  construe section 18 in isolation and instead must consider the lease agreement  in its entirety. And a review of the lease agreement’s other provisions demonstrates  the opposite is true. In section 8(d), the lease agreement states as  follows: “Except as otherwise  expressly provided herein, Tenant shall have no right and hereby waives all  rights which it may have under any Law (i) to quit, terminate or surrender this  Lease or any of the Leased Premises, or (ii) to any Set-Off of any Monetary Obligations.”  (Cui Decl., Ex. C, § 8(d).) Thus, contrary to Andes’ contention that section  18 is not the exclusive means for terminating the lease agreement, section 8(d)  makes clear that Andes’ ability to terminate or quit the lease agreement is  limited to the lease agreement’s provisions. Section 8(d), however, is not the  only applicable provision that limits Andes’ right to terminate the lease. In  the section preceding section 18, the lease agreement states the following: “If any Partial Casualty  (whether or not insured against) or Partial Condemnation shall occur to any  Related Premises, this Lease shall continue, notwithstanding such event, and  there shall be no abatement or reduction of any Monetary Obligations. Promptly  after such Partial Casualty or Partial Condemnation, Tenant, as required in  Paragraph 12(a), shall commence and diligently continue to restore the Leased  Premises as nearly as possible to their value, condition and character  immediately prior to such event (assuming the Leased Premises to have been in  the condition required by this Lease). . . . With respect to the California  Premises, Landlord and Tenant waive the provisions of California Civil Code  Sections 1932 and 1933 and California Code of Civil Procedure Section  1265.130.” (Cui Decl., Ex. C, § 17(c).) The lease agreement defines “partial casualty” as  “any Casualty which does not constitute a Termination Event.” (Cui Decl., Ex.  C, § 2.) Thus, based on the plain language of the lease agreement, any damage  to the City of Industry property that does not result in a termination event  cannot serve as grounds to terminate the lease and must be remedied by the  tenant. Andes attempts to avoid the application of these provisions by claiming  Andes did not accept delivery of the premises and that Andes’ termination was based  on Oceanus’ alleged breach. (Andes Suppl. Brief, p. 6:13-7:4.) As to the first contention, Andes failed to point  to any provision in the lease agreement that allows Andes to outright reject  delivery of the premises if it failed to include functional electrical  fixtures. Furthermore, such an option would conflict with the parties’ clear  intent in the lease agreement to shift the risk of damage to the premises onto  the tenant. (See Tunkl v. Regents of  University of Cal. (1963) 60 Cal.2d 92, 101 [“[N]o public policy  opposes private, voluntary transactions in which one party, for a  consideration, agrees to shoulder a risk which the law would otherwise have  placed upon the other party.”].) And as to the second contention, as discussed above  in the first section, there is no evidence proffered by either side that  established Oceanus and Cui were responsible for the destruction of the  electrical system at the City of Industry property. Thus, the court finds there  is no probable validity to Andes’ claim that Oceanus and Cui breached the  lease agreement or the covenant of quiet enjoyment. Instead, it appears more  probable that Andes was the one who breached the sublease agreement by terminating  the lease without proper grounds pursuant to the original lease agreement.  Therefore, Oceanus and Cui established that Andes’ claims lack probable validity. Accordingly, Oceanus and Cui’s motion is GRANTED. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, Oceanus  and Cui’s motion to set aside the right  to attach order granted on November 28, 2023, and quash Andes’ writ of  attachment is GRANTED.