 Case Number:  24STCP02662    Hearing Date:   September 30, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date: 9-30-24
Case
#24STCP02662
 
PETITION FOR APPROVAL 
OF 
TRANSFERRED STRUCURED SETTLMENT PAYMENT RIGHTS
 
MOVING
PARTY: Petitioner, J.G. Wentworth Originations, LLC
RESPONDING
PARTY: Jamestown Life Insurance Company
 
SUMMARY
Beginning
in 1999, Payee Frederick Sanders Jr. became entitled to certain structed
settlement payments. The payments are made by Jamestown Life Insurance Company.

 
Payee
seeks to transfer payments in exchange for a lump sum purchase amount with
Petitioner J.G. Wentworth Originations, LLC. 
 
RULING: Denied.
Petitioner
J.G. Wentworth Originations, LLC moves to transfer the rights of $50,000 due on
November 10, 2032 ($100,000 total payment scheduled), present value discounted
to $17,000 based on a rate of 13.99%. 
 
Structured
settlements require certain disclosures, service on all interested parties, and
court approval. (Ins. Code, §§ 10136, et seq.)
 
In
order to grant the petition for approval, the court must expressly find:
 
(1) The transfer
is in the best interest of the payee, taking into account the welfare and
support of the payee's dependents.
(2) The payee has
been advised in writing by the transferee to seek independent professional advice
regarding the transfer and has either received that advice or knowingly waived,
in writing, the opportunity to receive the advice.
(3) The Transferee
has complied with the notification requirements pursuant to paragraph (2) of
subdivision (f), the transferee has provided the payee with a disclosure form
that complies with Section 10136, and the transfer agreement complies with
Sections 10136 and 10138.
(4) The transfer
does not contravene any applicable statute or the order of any court or other
government authority.
(5) The payee
understands the terms of the transfer agreement, including the terms set forth
in the disclosure statement required by Section 10136.
(6) The payee
understands and does not wish to exercise the payee's right to cancel the
transfer agreement.
 
(Ins.
Code, § 10139.5, subd. (a).)
 
The section continues:
b) When determining whether the proposed transfer should be
approved, including whether the transfer is fair, reasonable, and in the
payee's best interest, taking into account the welfare and support of the
payee's dependents, the court shall consider the totality of the circumstances,
including, but not limited to, all of the following:
 
(1) The reasonable preference and desire of the payee to complete
the proposed transaction, taking into account the payee's age, mental capacity,
legal knowledge, and apparent maturity level.
(2) The stated purpose of the transfer.
(3) The payee's financial and economic situation.
(4) The terms of the transaction, including whether the payee is
transferring monthly or lump sum payments or all or a portion of his or her
future payments.
(5) Whether, when the settlement was completed, the future
periodic payments that are the subject of the proposed transfer were intended
to pay for the future medical care and treatment of the payee relating to
injuries sustained by the payee in the incident that was the subject of the
settlement and whether the payee still needs those future payments to pay for
that future care and treatment.
(6) Whether, when the settlement was completed, the future
periodic payments that are the subject of the proposed transfer were intended
to provide for the necessary living expenses of the payee and whether the payee
still needs the future structured settlement payments to pay for future
necessary living expenses.
(7) Whether the payee is, at the time of the proposed transfer,
likely to require future medical care and treatment for the injuries that the
payee sustained in connection with the incident that was the subject of the
settlement and whether the payee lacks other resources, including insurance,
sufficient to cover those future medical expenses.
(8) Whether the payee has other means of income or support, aside
from the structured settlement payments that are the subject of the proposed
transfer, sufficient to meet the payee's future financial obligations for
maintenance and support of the payee's dependents, specifically including, but
not limited to, the payee's child support obligations, if any.  The payee shall
disclose to the transferee and the court his or her court-ordered child support
or maintenance obligations for the court's consideration.
(9) Whether the financial terms of the transaction, including the
discount rate applied to determine the amount to be paid to the payee, the
expenses and costs of the transaction for both the payee and the transferee,
the size of the transaction, the available financial alternatives to the payee
to achieve the payee's stated objectives, are fair and reasonable.
(10) Whether the payee completed previous transactions involving
the payee's structured settlement payments and the timing and size of the
previous transactions and whether the payee was satisfied with any previous
transaction.
(11) Whether the transferee attempted previous transactions
involving the payee's structured settlement payments that were denied, or that
were dismissed or withdrawn prior to a decision on the merits, within the past
five years.
(12) Whether, to the best of the transferee's knowledge after
making inquiry with the payee, the payee has attempted structured settlement
payment transfer transactions with another person or entity, other than the
transferee, that were denied, or which were dismissed or withdrawn prior to a
decision on the merits, within the past five years.
(13) Whether the payee, or his or her family or dependents, are in
or are facing a hardship situation.
(14) Whether the payee received independent legal or financial
advice regarding the transaction.  The court may deny or defer ruling on the
petition for approval of a transfer of structured settlement payment rights if
the court believes that the payee does not fully understand the proposed
transaction and that independent legal or financial advice regarding the
transaction should be obtained by the payee.
(15) Any other factors or facts that the payee, the transferee, or
any other interested party calls to the attention of the reviewing court or
that the court determines should be considered in reviewing the transfer.
 
(c) Every petition for approval of a transfer of structured
settlement payment rights, except as provided in subdivision (d), shall
include, to the extent known after the transferee has made reasonable inquiry
with the payee, all of the following:
 
(1) The payee's name, address, and age.
(2) The payee's marital status, and, if married or separated, the
name of the payee's spouse.
(3) The names, ages, and place or places of residence of the
payee's minor children or other dependents, if any.
(4) The amounts and sources of the payee's monthly income and
financial resources and, if presently married, the amounts and sources of the
monthly income and financial resources of the payee's spouse.
(5) Whether the payee is currently obligated under any child
support or spousal support order, and, if so, the names, addresses, and
telephone numbers of any individual, entity, or agency that is receiving child
or spousal support from the payee under that order or that has jurisdiction
over the order or the payments in question.
(6) Information regarding previous transfers or attempted
transfers, as described in paragraph (11), (12), or (13) of subdivision (b).  The
transferee or payee may choose to provide this information by providing copies
of pleadings, transaction documents, or orders involving any previous attempted
or completed transfer or by providing the court a summary of available
information regarding any previous transfer or attempted transfer, such as the
date of the transfer or attempted transfer, the payments transferred or
attempted to be transferred by the payee in the earlier transaction, the amount
of money received by the payee in connection with the previous transaction, and
generally the payee's reasons for pursuing or completing a previous
transaction.  The transferee's inability to provide the information required by
this paragraph shall not preclude the court from approving the proposed
transfer, if the court determines that the information is not available to the
transferee after the transferee has made a reasonable effort to secure the
information, including making an inquiry with the payee.
 
The
petition recites the elements for a transfer. The exhibits, including signed
documents demonstrate compliance with the disclosure requirements and explicit
terms of the agreement.
 
While
the petition contains an affidavit of Frederick Sands Jr., lacking is any
reference to the purported reasons for the request. [First Amended Petition,
Ex. D.] The declaration is therefore incomplete. (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd.
(b-c).)
 
The
court also seeks clarification that Petitioner in fact only seeks $50,000 of
the $100,000 indicated amount due in November 10, 2032. [First Amended
Petition, Ex. C.]
 
The
First Amended Petition was filed on September 9, 2024, without any proof of
service. Any service was due 16 court days before the September 30, 2024,
hearing, so even if Petitioner submits a proof of service, any such service
would precede the filing date. (Code Civ. Proc., 1005, subd. (b).)
 
In
summary, the court finds the declaration insufficiently demonstrates the basis
for the transfer and basis of the decision, the court seeks verification on the
proposed payment, and finds service untimely. The petition is therefore denied
without prejudice.
 
Petitioner to provide
notice.
 