 Case Number:  21STCV43258    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  C A.P., et al. vs Juan Vicente Meave
Case No.: 21STCV43258
Hearing Date: June 11, 2024 at 10:30 a.m. 
 
#8 
Tentative Ruling 
Defendant Guadalupe Meave’s Motion for Judgment
on the Pleadings is GRANTED with 30 days leave to amend.  
Moving party to give notice. 
 
Background 
The operative Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) filed on
September 26, 2023 alleges Plaintiff A.P. (“Plaintiff”) was sexually assaulted
on multiple occasions by Defendant Juan Vicente Meave (“Mr. Meave”).  Mr. Meave began a sexual relationship with
Plaintiff when Plaintiff was approximately 10 years old, and it continued until
approximately November 2020.  Mr. Meave
owns a home behind his residence which he rents to Plaintiff and his
family.  Mr. Meave is married to
Defendant Guadalupe Meave (“Mrs. Meave”) and they are the parents of Defendant
Leida Meave (“Ms. Meave”).  Plaintiff, by
and through his guardian ad litem, Maria Roman, brings causes of action for: 1)
Sexual Battery, against Mr. Meave, 2) Negligence, against all three defendants,
and 3) Fraudulent Transfer, against Mr. Meave and Ms. Meave. (Mrs. Meave’s
demurrer to the Third Cause of Action was sustained without leave to amend on
December 20, 2023.) 
Mrs. Meave now moves for judgment on the pleadings as to
the Second Cause of Action for Negligence on the grounds that it fails to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against her.  
Request for Judicial
Notice
Mrs. Meave’s Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED as to
the grant deed for the real property located at 7213-7416 Benares Steet,
Downey, County of Los Angeles, CA.  The
Court may take judicial notice of “records of (1) any court of this state or
(2) any court of record of the United States or any state of the United
States;” and subdivision (h) “facts and propositions that are not reasonably
subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate determination by
resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.” (CCP § 437.) 
Legal Standard 
A defendant may bring a statutory motion for judgment on the
pleadings where the court has no jurisdiction over the subject of the cause of
action alleged in the complaint or the complaint does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action against that defendant. (C.C.P. §
438(c)(1)(B).) A non-statutory motion for judgment on the pleadings may be made
any time before or during trial. (Stoops v. Abbassi (2002) 100
Cal.App.4th 644, 650.) “Such motion may be made on the same ground as those
supporting a general demurrer, i.e., that the pleading at issue fails to state
facts sufficient to constitute a legally cognizable claim or defense.” (Id.) 
 
“In the construction of a pleading, for the purpose of determining
its effect, its allegations must be liberally construed, with a view to
substantial justice between the parties.” (C.C.P. § 452; see also Stevens v.
Superior Court (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 594, 601.) “When a court evaluates a
complaint, the plaintiff is entitled to reasonable inferences from the facts
pled.” (Duval v. Board of Tr. (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 902, 906.) “In
deciding or reviewing a judgment on the pleadings, all properly pleaded material
facts are deemed to be true, as well as all facts that may be implied or
inferred from those expressly alleged.” (Fire Ins. Exch. v. Superior Court
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 446, 452.)  
 
“In the case of either a demurrer or a motion for judgment on the
pleadings, leave to amend should be granted if there is any reasonable
possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action.” (Gami v.
Mullikin Medical Ctr. (1993) 18 Cal.App.4th 870, 876.) 
 
Discussion 
 
Mrs. Meave moves for judgment on the pleadings as to the
Second Cause of Action for Negligence on the grounds that it fails to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against her.  
The elements of a cause of action for negligence are (1) a
legal duty to use due care, (2) a breach of that duty, (3) a reasonably close
causal connection between that breach and the plaintiff’s resulting injury, and
(4) actual loss or damage to the plaintiff. (People v. Young (1942) 20
Cal.2d 832). The duty of care requires the use of ordinary care to prevent
injury to others and is determined on a case-by-case basis. (Weirum v. RKO
Gen. Inc. (1975) 15 Cal.3d 40). Liability is incurred in tort when a person
at the time of the negligent act or omission should have reasonably foreseen
that such act or omission could result in damage to another. (Alva v. Cook
(1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 899). The tortfeasor is legally responsible for all the
damages for which the negligent act is a “substantial factor.” (Mitchell v.
Gonzales (1991) 54 Cal.3d 1041). “A person is ordinarily not liable for the
actions of another and is under no duty to protect another from harm, in the
absence of a special relationship of custody or control.” (Roman Catholic
Bishop v. Superior Court (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1556, 1564).
Plaintiff argues that the TAC sufficiently pleads that Mrs.
Meave was aware of the inappropriate contact between Plaintiff and Mr. Meave.  The TAC alleges the following: “A.P. has
reason to believe that Defendant Mrs. Meave was aware of the inappropriate
contact because of a specific incident when she walked in the room and told
Defendant Meave to "stop that!” This was in reference to her witnessing
inappropriate contact between Defendant MEAVE and A.P. At this moment, Mrs.
Meave knew or should have known that inappropriate contact existed between
Defendant Meave and A.P.” (TAC, ¶ 28.) 
Mrs. Meave argues that the TAC fails to allege that she knew,
or should have known, that her husband molested Plaintiff.  It merely alleges that she knew he had
“inappropriate contact” with Plaintiff. 
Where a “complaint alleges injuries resulting from the
criminal acts of third persons ... ‘the common law, reluctant to impose
liability for nonfeasance, generally does not impose a duty upon a defendant to
control the conduct of another [citations], or to warn of such conduct
[citations], unless the defendant stands in some special relationship either to
the person whose conduct needs to be controlled, or to the foreseeable victim
of such conduct. [Citations.]’ ” (Chaney v. Superior Ct., (1995) 39 Cal.
App. 4th 152, 157.) Regarding the extent of a wife's duty to her minor invitees
to prevent sexual assaults allegedly perpetrated by her husband (even if for
the sake of argument plaintiff was an invitee), Chaney held that the
wife's duty of reasonable care to the injured child depends on whether the
husband's behavior was reasonably foreseeable. Although a wife's knowledge may
be proven by circumstantial evidence, such inference must reflect the wife's
actual knowledge and not merely constructive knowledge or notice. “[A]ctual
knowledge can be inferred from the circumstances only if, in the light of the
evidence, such inference is not based on speculation or conjecture. Only where
the circumstances are such that the defendant ‘must have known’ and not ‘should
have known’ will an inference of actual knowledge be permitted.” (Chaney,
at 157, citations omitted.)
The Court determines that the “inappropriate contact” Mrs.
Meave is alleged to have witnessed is not described with sufficient specificity
to permit an inference that she had knowledge of Mr. Weave’s deviant sexual
desires.  Significantly, the TAC does not
allege that Mrs. Weave invited Plaintiff into her home or that she was aware of
any propensity Mr. Weave may have had to engage in deviant sexual conduct.  Based on the allegations in the TAC, Mr.
Weave’s conduct was not reasonably foreseeable. 

Plaintiff also argues that the TAC sufficiently alleges a
special relationship (i.e., landlord-tenant) between Mrs. Weave and Plaintiff
because Mrs. Weave “collected rents” and “represented that she was the
landlord.”  Because this is not alleged
in the TAC, the argument fails.  
Accordingly, Mrs. Meave’s Motion for Judgment on the
Pleadings is GRANTED.  Plaintiff is given
30 days leave to amend.  