 Case Number:  22NWCV00772    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  C Andrea Martinez vs American Honda Motor Co.,
Inc.
Case No.: 22NWCV00772
Hearing Date: June 11, 2024 @ 9:30 AM 
 
#2
Tentative Ruling 
     I.       
Plaintiff Andrea Martinez’s
Motion to Compel the Deposition of Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc.’s PMQ
is GRANTED.  Defendant’s PMQ is ordered to appear for deposition within 45 days,
absent an agreement by the parties to a longer period.  
   
II.       
The Court imposes sanctions against
Defendant and Counsel, jointly and severally, in the amount of $1,410.00, payable
within 60 days.  
Plaintiff to give notice. 
 
Background 
On August 29, 2022, Plaintiff Andrea Martinez (“Plaintiff”)
filed this lemon law action against Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
(“Defendant”) for violations of the Song-Beverly Act and Fraudulent
Inducement-Concealment. 
Meet
and Confer 
 
Code
of Civil Procedure § 2025.450 requires the motion to be accompanied by a meet
and confer declaration under Code of Civil Procedure § 2016.040.  (CCP §
2025.450.)  Code of Civil Procedure § 2016.040 provides that “[a] meet and
confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a
reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue
presented by the motion.”  (CCP § 2016.040.)  “[W]hen the deponent
fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored
information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance.”  (CCP § 2025.450(b)(2).) 
 
Plaintiff contends that on January 17, 2024, Plaintiff
noticed the deposition of Defendant’s PMQ with matters for examination and
requests for document production, set for February 14, 2024. (Lupinek Decl., ¶¶
3-4, Ex. A.) Plaintiff also included a letter asking Defendant to provide
alternative dates if the February 14, 2024 deposition date did not work.
(Lupinek Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. B.) 
On February 7, 2024, Defendant served a Response to
Plaintiff’s Notice of Deposition. Defendant stated that it would not produce a
witness for the deposition noticed for February 14, 2024 and provided no alternative
dates. (Lupinek Dec., ¶ 5, Exh. C.) On February 13, 2024, Plaintiff sent
Defendant a meet and confer letter addressing the deficiencies in Defendant’s
objections to Plaintiff’s Notice of Deposition. (Lupinek Dec., ¶ 7, Exh. D.) 
On February 14, 2024, Plaintiff sent Defendant a video link
to enable Defendant’s witness to participate in the deposition. (Lupinek Dec.,
¶ 6, Exh. B.) Plaintiff’s counsel logged on to the video link for the
deposition at 12:00 p.m. and stayed on for 30 minutes, but Defendant did not
appear. Plaintiff’s counsel then sent Defendant an email offering Defendant an
additional three business days to provide dates for the deposition. Defendant
advised it served objections but did not otherwise respond with any alternative
dates for the deposition to proceed. (Lupinek Dec., ¶ 8, Exh. B.) Plaintiff
sent a follow up email on February 21, 2024 requesting dates for the
deposition. Defendant did not respond to either email and, to date, Defendant
has not offered any dates for the deposition. (Lupinek Dec., ¶ 9, Exh. B.)
Defendant contends that on May 21, 2024, Defense counsel
sent a meet and confer letter regarding the Defendant’s Motion for Protective
Order. (Alarcon Decl., ¶ 2.) In this letter, Defendant offered to provide dates
for a corporate witness if Plaintiff withdrew topics 1-9 and 11-27, which
directly reference the Torque Converter Lock-Up Clutch. (Alarcon Decl., ¶ 2.)
However, as of the date of the filing of Opposition, no response has been
received from Plaintiff’s counsel. (Alarcon Decl., ¶ 2.)
The
Court finds that none of these emails addressed any of the objections raised by
Defendant, nor did Plaintiff inquire as to why Defendant’s PMQ did not appear.   At
most, Plaintiff only emailed about future deposition dates.  Although this
is not a sufficient meet and confer effort, the Court will exercise its
discretion to consider the merits of the motion.  
Legal Standard 
Code of Civil Procedure §
2025.010 provides, “Any party may obtain discovery … by taking in California
the oral deposition of any person, including any party to the action.  The
person deposed may be a natural person, an organization such as a public or
private corporation, a partnership, an association, or a governmental
agency.”  
 
Code of Civil Procedure
§¿2025.450(a) provides:¿“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to
the action … without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce
for¿inspection any document … described in the deposition notice, the party
giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document . . .
described in the deposition notice.”¿ 
Code of Civil Procedure
§¿2025.450(b) provides:¿“A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with both
of the following: (1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good
cause justifying the production for inspection of any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice; (2)
The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the
documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the
deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted
the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”¿ 
Code of Civil Procedure
§¿2025.450(c) provides, “(1) If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted, the
court shall impose a monetary sanction … in favor of the party who noticed the
deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is
affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.”¿ 
Under Code of Civil Procedure
§ 2023.030(a), “[t]he court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that
conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. . .If a monetary sanction is
authorized by any provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the¿sanction
unjust.”¿¿Failing to respond¿or to submit to an authorized method of discovery
is a misuse of the discovery process.¿ (CCP § 2023.010(d).)¿ 
Discussion 
In
the response to the amended deposition notice, Defendant provides general
objections on the grounds that (1) the deposition was unilaterally set, (2) the
categories of topics are overbroad, seek confidential or proprietary
information, including trade secrets, or information protected by attorney
client privilege and/or work product doctrine, (3) Defendant reserves the right
to object, pursuant to the California Evidence Code and Code of Civil
Procedure, to any specific question as they arise during the deposition, (4)
the documents requested are not described with reasonable particularity, and
(5) Defendant does not intend to re-produce any of the documents and exhibits
that have been previously produced in discovery to date. (Lupinek Decl., Exh.
C.)  
 
Defendant’s
objections are mostly inapplicable.  Objections
to a notice of the deposition are very limited and may only pertain to errors
or irregularities in the deposition notice itself. (CCP § 2025.410.) The unilateral setting of a deposition
under Los Angeles County Superior Court Local Rule 3.26 is not a basis for an
objection to the notice as all local rules are preempted as to
discovery. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.20(a).) 
 
A proper objection may relate to the lack of specificity of the topics of
inquiry.  Code of Civil Procedure
section 2025.230 provides, in relevant part, that “[i]f the deponent named is
not a natural person, the deposition notice shall describe with reasonable
particularity the matters on which examination is requested. In that event, the
deponent shall designate and produce at the deposition those of its officers,
directors, managing agents, employees, or agents who are most qualified to
testify on its behalf as to those matters to the extent of any information
known or reasonably available to the deponent.”  (CCP §
2025.230.)  Here, each of the designated categories is clear as to
the topics of inquiry.  
 
For example, Category 1 states that it seeks the person
most knowledgeable on “Design and manufacturing processes for the
transmissions, including but not limited to torque converters, the TORQUE
CONVERTER LOCK-UP CLUTCH, and other hardware and electronic control systems for
the transmissions, in 2019 Honda PILOT vehicles.” (Lupinek
Decl., Exh. A.) This clearly
indicates that Plaintiff wishes to discuss the issues relating to the torque
converter lock-up clutch. Thus, Defendant would be able to determine if any
person most qualified to respond to these requests exists and, if so,
who.  To the extent that Defendant contends that no such person exists,
this is immaterial as a basis for objection to the notice as Plaintiff has
described with reasonable particularity the matter on which the examination is
requested.  (CCP §2025.230.)  
Nor
is it necessary for Defendant to object or refuse to produce based on
non-existence of the requested information.  This is because Defendant is
only required to “designate and produce at the deposition those of its
officers, directors, managing agents, employees, or agents who are most
qualified to testify on its behalf as to those matters to the extent
of any information known or reasonably available to the deponent [entity].” 
(CCP § 2025.230, [italics added].)  Thus, should the requested information
not exist, then Defendant should designate a person most knowledgeable to
testify to that extent. 
As
to the other objections based on relevance, attorney client privilege, trade
secret, etc., these objections are improper because the categories in the
notice are not deposition questions.  The objections should only be raised
to specific objectionable questions during the deposition, not in the notice of
the deposition. 
The
categories in the notice of the deposition are solely for purposes of
identifying person(s) most knowledgeable on those issues.  (See CCP
§ 2025.230.)  
Defendant argues that it has
filed a Motion for Protective Order on the grounds that testimony relating to
the “Torque Converter Lock-Up Clutch” is irrelevant.   This
alleged defect is the basis for Plaintiff’s Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment
cause of action. However, Plaintiff admitted in her deposition that she has not
seen any reference to this alleged defect in any of the repair orders regarding
her vehicle, no one at the dealership discussed this component prior to her
purchase of the subject vehicle, and she had not heard of the term prior to her
deposition. 
The Court determines that the
alleged defect is adequately pleaded in the Complaint, and Plaintiff’s lack of
familiarity with the defect does not mean the subject matter is irrelevant for
purposes of the PMQ deposition.  Moreover, the Court notes that Defendant’s Motion for Protective
Order is currently scheduled for hearing on February 4, 2025, and Defendant has
not asked the Court to advance the hearing date.  Therefore, it is unreasonable to request, as Defendant
does here, that Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Deposition be continued until
after Defendant’s Motion for a Protective Order is heard in February 2025.  
As
to the objections to the document production, the objections are unnecessary
and inapplicable to the notice.  A request for production of documents in
a deposition notice merely provides that documents identified are to be
produced by the deponent at the deposition. (CCP § 2025.220(a)(4).)  There
is no statutory basis for a written response to such a request.  Rather, objections are timely raised during
the deposition, or they are waived. (See CCP § 2025.460.)  Thus, an
objection to a request to compel documents under a deposition subpoena is
premature as no deposition has yet occurred. 
 
However,
to avoid additional motion practice, the Court notes that most of the document requests
are not overbroad or irrelevant. Here,
requests 30 through 38 directly relate to the allegations in the complaint and to
the Subject Vehicle.  Requests 1 through
29 and 39 through 54 are somewhat overbroad and could reasonably include all
non-conformities within the United States or the world for every make and model
of Plaintiff’s vehicle.  Thus, the
requests should be limited to nonconformities that the Subject Vehicle
experienced, and the requests should be geographically limited vehicles sold in
California. 
 
Because there is no valid objection to the notice of the
deposition and Defendant has failed to appear, Plaintiff’s motion to compel the
deposition of Defendant’s PMQ is GRANTED. 
 
Sanctions 
 
Plaintiff
seeks sanctions of $3,390.00 against Defendant and Defendant’s counsel of
record to compensate Plaintiff for the attorney fees and costs in bringing the
instant motion.  Plaintiff’s Counsel claims that 4.4 hours were spent
drafting the instant motion, proposed order, separate state and declaration, Plaintiff
requests two additional hours for reviewing the opposition and drafting a
reply, and an hour for attending the hearing at a rate of $450.00 per hour, as
well as filing fees of $60.  (Lupinek
Decl., ¶¶ 10-11.)
 
If
a motion to compel deposition “is granted, the court shall impose a
monetary sanction . . . in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and
against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless
the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  (CCP § 2025.450(c), [italics added].)  Thus, sanctions are
mandatory unless circumstances make the imposition of sanctions unjust. 
Moreover, the failure to respond to authorized discovery is an abuse of the
discovery process.  (CCP § 2023.010(d); Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1348(a).)   
 
As
noted above, Plaintiff did not inquire about Defendant’s failure to comply with
the deposition notice.  Nor did Plaintiff address any of the objections or
concerns raised by Defendant in their meet and confer efforts.  However,
given Defendant’s refusal to provide dates for a deposition, the Court finds
that some sanctions are warranted.  Based on the totality of the
circumstances including the relative simplicity of the instant motion, the
Court finds that $1,410.00 reasonably compensates Plaintiff for the attorney’s
fees incurred in bringing this motion. 
 