 Case Number:  23NWCV01254    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  C Community Connect SoCal, Inc., vs Stephanie
Alvarez, et al.
Case No.: 23NWCV01254
Hearing Date: June 11, 2024 @ 9:30 a.m. 
 
#5
Tentative Ruling 
Defendant Stephanie Alvarez’s Motion to Stay Discovery
is GRANTED. 
Defendant to give notice. 
 
Background
On April 26, 2023, Plaintiff Community Connect SoCal, Inc.
(“Plaintiff”) sued Defendant Stephanie Alvarez (“Defendant”) for (1)
conversion, (2) unjust enrichment; and (3) fraud. 
It is alleged that in or around 2012, Christy Rae McIntyre
(“McIntyre”), the CEO of BRI, had a medical procedure that incapacitated her
for months. McIntyre suffered complications from the medical procedure, which
required another surgery and more time away from the office. McIntyre has never
fully recovered and has difficulty driving. 
Her 30-minute commute to the BRI office became less and less feasible.  During this time, McIntyre came to completely
trust Alvarez with the financial books and day-to-day responsibilities.
(Complaint, ¶ 9.)
It is further alleged that in or around January 2023,
McIntyre’s daughter, who has a background in accounting, requested and was
granted access to audit BRI’s books by McIntyre. After checking the American
Express account, Plaintiff alleges 
McIntyre’s daughter immediately discovered that Alvarez was using the
BRI American Express account for her own personal expenses, and immediately
instructed McIntyre to shut Alvarez out of all BRI accounts. (Complaint, ¶ 14.)

As a result of this discovery Defendant was presented with
a termination notice (“Termination Notice”), which stated, in relevant part,
that Alvarez was bring terminated for (i) stealing, (ii) insubordination of a
serious degree, (iii) willful or careless disregard of job responsibilities,
(iv) personal use of company property, and (v) violation of other employer
rule(s). (Complaint ¶ 16.) 
On or about January 11, 2023, McIntyre filed a police
report against Alvarez, and she was arrested on January 26, 2023. (Complaint, ¶
17.) 
Legal Standard 
In
deciding whether to stay proceedings when a civil defendant faces parallel
criminal charges, courts engage in a two-step process. First, the decision
should be made “‘in light of the particular circumstances and competing
interests involved in the case’ . . . This means the decision maker should
consider ‘the extent to which the defendant’s fifth amendment rights are implicated.” 
(Keating v. Office of Thrift Supervision (9th Cir. 1995) 45 F.3d 322,
324.)  Second, the court should consider: “(1) the interest of the
plaintiffs in proceeding expeditiously with this litigation or any particular
aspect of it, and the potential prejudice to plaintiffs of a delay; (2) the
burden which any particular aspect of the proceedings may impose on defendants;
(3) the convenience of the court in the management of its cases, and the
efficient use of judicial resources; (4) the interests of persons not parties
to the civil litigation; and (5) the interest of the public in the pending
civil and criminal litigation.”  (Avant! Corp. v. Superior Court
(2000) 79 Cal. App. 4th 876, 885.) 
“[I]t
has been consistently held that when both civil and criminal proceedings arise
out of the same or related transactions, an objecting party is generally
entitled to a stay of discovery in the civil action until disposition of the
criminal matter.”  (Pacers, Inc. v. Superior Court (1984) 162
Cal.App.3d 686, 690.)
Discussion 
Defendant
argues that compelling her to simultaneously defend the criminal case and this
civil action will implicate her Fifth Amendment privilege against
self-incrimination.  Defendant argues she cannot be expected to answer
questions in discovery without fear of self-incrimination, but invoking the
privilege would allow a trier of fact to draw an adverse inference. 
Defendant contends a stay of the civil action would promote the convenience of
the Court in the management of its cases because a stay would minimize the
likelihood of discovery disputes, motions to compel, trial continuances, and
potential appeals. 
Plaintiff
does not oppose the imposition of a stay pending the outcome of the criminal
case.  
Defendant’s
motion to stay discovery is GRANTED.  
 