Here is the summary of the tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23STCV23645
Plaintiff's Name: Southland Transit, Inc.
Defendant's Name: Golden Bear Insurance Company, et al.
People-Names: Daniel R. Formeller
Company-Names: Southland Transit, Inc., Golden Bear Insurance Company, General Star Indemnity Company, Endurance American Specialty Insurance Company
Places: California, Los Angeles, San Francisco
Dates: December 20, 2024, January 3, 2025, January 15, 2025
Events: Application to Appear Pro Hac Vice, Notice of Non-Opportunity, Hearing
Money: $50 (reasonable fee)
Intentions: To determine the sufficiency of the Application to Appear Pro Hac Vice
Facts: The Application was filed and served on December 20, 2024, and no opposition papers were filed
Disputes: None mentioned
Acts: Filing of the Application, Service of the Application and Notice of Hearing, Filing of Notice of Non-Opportunity
Agreements: None mentioned
Laws: California Rules of Court, Rule 9.40, Code of Civil Procedure section 1013a, Code of Civil Procedure section 1005
Case Citations: None mentioned
Statutes: None mentioned
Roles: Judge Maurice Leiter, Plaintiff Southland Transit, Inc., Defendant Golden Bear Insurance Company, et al.
Significant Statements: The Application is procedurally deficient due to lack of proof of service on the State Bar of California.
```

And here is a summary of the tentative ruling in English text:

This is a tentative ruling denying, without prejudice, the Application to Appear Pro Hac Vice filed by Plaintiff Southland Transit, Inc. on behalf of Daniel R. Formeller. The Application was filed on December 20, 2024, and no opposition papers were filed. The Court finds that the Application is procedurally deficient because it does not show service of the Application or the notice of hearing on the State Bar of California, as required by California Rules of Court, Rule 9.40. The moving party, Plaintiff Southland Transit, Inc., is required to provide proof of service on the State Bar of California. The Court sets January 15, 2025, as the hearing date for this matter.