 Case Number:  23STCV23645    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Southland Transit,
  Inc., 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case
  No.:
 


 
23STCV23645




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Golden Bear
  Insurance Company, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: January
15, 2025
Department 54, Judge Maurice
Leiter 
Application to Appear
Pro Hac Vice 
Moving Party: Plaintiff Southland
Transit, Inc. on behalf of Daniel R. Formeller 
Responding Party: Unopposed  
 
T/R:     The Application to Appear as Counsel Pro
Hac Vice is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE
 
            PLAINTIFF TO
NOTICE. 
 
The Court considers the moving papers. No
opposition papers were filed. 
 
BACKGROUND
            
On December 20, 2024, Plaintiff, on behalf of Daniel
R. Formeller, filed and served the instant Application to Appear Pro Hac
Vice. 
 
On January 3, 2025, Defendants Golden Bear
Insurance Company, General Star Indemnity Company, and Endurance American
Specialty Insurance Company filed a notice of non-opposition to the
Application.   
 
ANALYSIS
 
 California
Rules of Court, Rule 9.40 provides that an attorney in good standing in
another jurisdiction may apply to appear pro hac vice in this State
by  filing “with the court a verified
application with proof of service by mail in accordance with Code of Civil
Procedure section 1013a of a copy of the application and notice of hearing of
the application on all parties who have appeared in the cause and on the State
Bar of California at its San Francisco office. The notice of hearing must be
given at the time prescribed in Code of Civil Procedure section 1005 unless the
court has prescribed a shorter period.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 9.40(c)(1).)
“An applicant for permission to appear as counsel pro hac vice under
this rule must pay a reasonable fee not exceeding $50 to the State Bar of
California with the copy of the application and the notice of hearing that is
served on the State Bar.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 9.40(e).) 
 
The
written application must provide the following information: (1) applicant
attorney’s residence and office addresses; (2) the courts to which the
applicant attorney has been admitted and dates of admission; (3) representation
that the attorney is a member in good standing in the courts of admission and
is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court; (4) the title of each
court and action in which the applicant attorney has appeared pro hac vice in
this State in the preceding two years, if any; and (5) the name, address, and
telephone number of the active California State Bar member who is counsel of
record in the local action. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 9.40(d).) 
 
            The Application is procedurally deficient. The proof of service attached
to the Application does not show service of the Application or the notice of
hearing on the State Bar of California, as required by Cal. R. Ct., rule
9.40(c)(1). 


 