  Case Number:  22STCV04555    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Hakan Serbest, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case
  No.:
 


 
22STCV04555




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
International
  Capital Alliance, Inc., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: January
15, 2025
Department 54, Judge Maurice
Leiter 
Motion for Attorneys’
Fees, Costs, and Expenses  
Moving Party: Defendant
International Capital Alliance, Inc.  
Responding Party: Plaintiff Hakan
Serbest 
 
T/R:     The Motion for Attorneys’ Fees, Costs, and
Expenses is GRANTED
 
            DEFENDANT TO
NOTICE. 
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply, and the parties’ supplemental briefs.  
 
BACKGROUND
            
This is an action arising from the alleged
breach of a joint venture agreement. On February 7, 2022, The operative First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleges causes of action for: (1) Breach of Contract;
(2) Breach of Implied Duty of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (3) Breach of
Fiduciary Duty; (4) Unjust Enrichment; (5) Unfair Business Practice; and (6)
Recission. 
 
After a bench trial, the Court found for
Defendant on all causes of action. 
 
Defendant seeks an award of attorneys’ fees in
the amount of $78,015.00 and costs of $3,499.23. At argument on December 5,
2024, the Court continued the hearing for additional briefing. The parties
filed the requested briefs.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
A. Defendant’s Entitlement to Attorneys’ Fees    
 
            Plaintiff asserts that Defendant lacks a contractual basis for attorneys’
fees. In his supplemental brief, Plaintiff argues attorneys’ fees may be
awarded only after an arbitration, and there was no arbitration here. 
 
             Unless authorized
by either statute or agreement, attorney’s fees ordinarily are not recoverable
as costs. (Reynolds Metals Co. v. Alperson (1979) 25 Cal.3d 124, 127.) Civ.
Code § 1717 was enacted to establish mutuality of remedy where a contractual
provision makes recovery of attorney’s fees available for only one party. (Reynolds
Metals Co. v. Alperson, supra, 25 Cal.3d 124, 128.) If a contractual
attorney fee provision is phrased broadly enough, it may support an award of
attorney fees to the prevailing party in an action alleging both contract and
tort claims. (Santisas v. Goodin (1998) 17 Cal.4th 599, 608.) “[W]hen
the decision on the litigated contract claims is purely good news for one party
and bad news for the other—the Courts of Appeal have recognized that a trial
court has no discretion to deny attorney fees to the successful litigant. Thus,
when a defendant defeats recovery by the plaintiff on the only contract claim
in the action, the defendant is the party prevailing on the contract under
section 1717 as a matter of law.” (Hsu v. Abbara (1995) 9 Cal.4th 863,
876.) “[A] prevailing party is entitled as a matter of right to recover costs
in any action or proceeding.” (Santisas v. Goodin, supra, 17
Cal.4th 599, 606.)
 
            Section 4.02 of the Joint
Venture Agreement (JVA) states: “Each party agrees to defend, indemnify and
hold harmless the other [p]arty against any and all claims, liabilities,
damages or causes of action hereafter brought or asserted by any person or
entity against any of the other Party relating to any alleged or actual action
or omission to act by the Indemnifying Party arising from, or in connection
with, such Indemnifying Party’s (a) material breach of his duties and
obligations under this Agreement, or (b) willful or grossly negligent
misconduct hereunder.” (Matthews Decl., Exh. 4 at § 4.02.) 
Section 9, “Arbitration and Jurisdiction,” provides that “[a]ny legal
action to enforce any provision of this [a]greement shall be subject to
binding, mandatory arbitration which shall be commenced before the Los Angeles
Breach of the American Arbitration Association.” (Matthews Decl., Exh. 4 at §
9.01.) “The arbitration shall be conducted by one arbitrator and shall be
binding on the Parties. The prevailing Party shall be entitled to such
reasonable attorney’s fees and costs as are awarded by the Arbitrator, and any
other relief to which such Party may be entitled. The prevailing Party shall
also be entitled to reasonable attorneys fees and costs in conforming and
executing upon the award.” (Matthews Decl., Exh. 4 at § 9.02.) 
 
            “[A]n agreement for the
payment of attorneys’ fees must be interpreted in accordance with its terms,
without regard to whether it might appear fair in a given circumstance.” (Kalai
v. Gray (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 768, 771 (Kalai).) The Kalai court
was concerned with whether attorneys’ fees could be awarded to a prevailing
party where “the parties’ agreement provided for such an award only in favor of
the prevailing party to [the] Arbitration.” (Id. at p. 771.) The Kalai
court held that the trial court erred in awarding attorneys’ fees because there
had been no arbitration, and it was “[t]he clear intent of the parties’
provision . . . that one who ultimately prevails in a final resolution of their
dispute shall be entitled to fees.” (Id. at p. 777.) 
 
            The Court finds that
Plaintiff’s reliance on Kalai, supra, 109 Cal.App.4th 768 is
inapposite; that case did not address the effect of Civil Code § 1717. (Andrade
v. Western Riverside Council of Governments (2024) 99 Cal.App.5th 1020,
1027.) Although the contractual provision in Kalai arose in the
circumstance of a party opting to litigate as opposed to arbitration, which is
the case here, in Kalai “neither party invoked section 1717, and its
import was not considered by the court.” (Ibid.) “Under section 1717,
subdivision (a) . . . a fee provision must be construed as applying to the
entire contract, unless each party was represented by counsel in the
negotiation and execution of the contract, and the fact of that representation
is specified in the contract.” (Ibid.) “[P]arties may not limit recovery
of attorney fees to a particular type of claim . . . unless each party was
represented by counsel in the negotiation and execution of the contract, and
the fact of that representation is specified in the contract.” (Ibid.) 
 
            Here, nothing in the JVA
indicates that the parties were represented by counsel in its negotiation and
execution. Plaintiff presents evidence that Defendant drafted the JVA. (Serbest
Decl., ¶ 3.) That is not an indication that all parties were represented by
counsel in the negotiation and execution of the JVA. The Court finds that limiting
attorneys’ fees to arbitration is an improper limitation under Andrade.
Under Andrade, the Court construes the attorneys’ fees provision as
applying to the entire JVA. 
 
            Plaintiff’s argument that
the JVA prohibits attorney fees because the JVA is illegal is unpersuasive. The
Court found that the JVA was a sham agreement; the Court did not find the JVA
was an illegal contract. (See Final Statement of Decision at p. 4.)  “Civil Code section 1717 entitles the
prevailing party to attorney fees, even when the party prevails on the ground
that the contract is inapplicable, invalid, unenforceable, or nonexistent, if
the other party would have been entitled to attorney fees had it prevailed.” (Yuba
Cypress Housing Partners, Ltd. v. Area Developers (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th
1077, 1081.) “Because courts generally will not enforce an illegal contract,
there is no need for a mutual right to attorney fees since neither party can
enforce the agreement.” (Id. at p. 1082.) 
 
            Plaintiff does not
dispute that Defendant is the prevailing party in this action. Defendant is the
prevailing party and is entitled to an award of attorneys’ fees under Andrade.[1]

 
B. Reasonableness of
the Requested Attorneys’ Fees     
 
            In support of the
motion, Mr. Matthews states that he performed services on this matter at $525
per hour. (Matthews Decl., ¶ 6(c).) Defendant incurred costs of $3,499.23.
(Matthews Decl., ¶ 7; Exh. 3.) Mr. Matthews and Ms. Chopuryan worked a total of
148.60 hours on this matter: Mr. Matthews working 27.10 hours and Ms. Chopuryan
working 121.50 hours. (Matthews Decl., Exh. 2.) 
 
            In his supplemental
declaration, Mr. Matthews states that Defendant has incurred an additional
seven (7) hours of fees in connection with the drafting of the supplemental
briefs. (Matthews Suppl. Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.) Defendant seeks an additional
$3,675.00, which totals $85,189.23. (Matthews Suppl. Decl. ¶ 4.) 
 
            Defendant has met its
burden in showing reasonableness of the claimed attorneys’ fees. Plaintiff has
not shown that the claimed fees are unreasonable. 
 
C. Plaintiff’s
Request for Sanctions 
 
            Plaintiff requests sanctions against
Defendant under CCP § 128.7. The Court finds that Plaintiff’s request for
sanctions is improper as “[a] motion for sanctions under . . . [CCP § 128.7]
shall be made separately from other motions or requests and shall describe the
specific conduct alleged to violate subdivision (b).” (Code Civ. Proc., §
128.7, subd. (c)(1).) Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is procedurally
improper and is DENIED. 


 


