 Case Number:  23STCV16538    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  20 Tentative Ruling
Judge Kevin C. Brazile

Department 20

Hearing Date:                         Wednesday, October 25,
2023
Case Name:                            Jeremy Braud v.
Martin Stuart Rudoy, et al.
Case No.:                                23STCV16538 
Motion:                                 (1) Demurrer
to Answer and (2) Motion to Strike Portions of Answer
Moving Party:                         Plaintiff Jeremy Braud 
Responding Party:                  Defendant Martin Stuart Brody
Notice:                                    OK

 

 
Ruling:                                   Plaintiff’s
Demurrer to Defendant Martin Rudoy’s Answer is SUSTAINED WITH 10 DAYS  LEAVE TO AMEND as to the 6th affirmative
defense for laches and OVERRULED as to the 2nd through 5th and 7th through 14th
affirmative defenses.  
                                                
                                                Plaintiff’s
Motion to Strike the 7th and 15th affirmative defenses is DENIED.  
 
Moving Party to
give notice.
 
If counsel do not
submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by
LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

 

 
BACKGROUND
            Plaintiff is suing Defendants for
legal malpractice in connection with a prior action brought by Plaintiff’s
tenant against him for mold exposure. 
Plaintiff alleges Defendants’ representation fell below the standard of
care.  Plaintiff alleges damages in the
amount of $75,048, the amount of legal fees incurred in the prior
proceeding.  
            On July 14, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
complaint against Defendants Martin Stuart Rudoy, Patricia Ellen Parker and
Eric L. Webb alleging:  (1) professional
negligence; (2) negligent referral; and (3) declaratory relief.  
DISCUSSION
I.  Parties’ Positions
            Moving Party’s Position
            Plaintiff contends he met and
conferred as required under the Code as to both the demurrer and the motion to
strike.  Plaintiff argues Defendant
failed to satisfy his obligation to meet and confer.
            Plaintiff demurs to the 2nd
through 14th affirmative defenses alleged in Defendant Martin Sturt
Rudoy’s Answer filed on August 25, 2023. 
Plaintiff argues each of the defenses are based on bare legal
conclusions, not factual averments. 
Plaintiff argues Defendant fails to raise new matter based on these
affirmative defenses, because there are no facts alleged to support them.  Plaintiff argues the defenses also fail to
identify the specific cause of action to which they are directed.  Plaintiff argues the answer violates CCP
§128.7, because improper defenses were asserted.
            Plaintiff also moves to strike the 7th
affirmative defense (statute of limitations) and the 15th
affirmative defense.  Plaintiff argues he
filed this lawsuit within a year of Defendant ceasing to act as his
lawyer.  Plaintiff argues the statute of
limitations defense based on CCP §340.6 is based on the false allegation that
he did not file the lawsuit within a year. 
Plaintiff also argues the 15th affirmative defense for
“reservation of defenses” is not drawn in conformity with California law.  
            Opposition
            Defendant argues Plaintiff did not
meet and confer as required by CCP §§430.10 and 435.5.  Defendant argues Plaintiff prematurely
terminated the meet and confer process. 
Defendant argues he was ready to modify his answer and simply sought to
fully understand Plaintiff’s positions and arguments prior to doing so.  Although Defendant disagrees with Plaintiff’s
objections, Defendant submits that he is ready and willing to amend his answer
to provide the requested additional information.  
            Defendant argues the motion to
strike the 7th and 15th affirmative defenses is
meritless, because neither defense is based on “false” matter.  Defendant argues that whether the statute of
limitations has run on Plaintiff’s claims cannot be resolved at this juncture
based on a  substitution of counsel
form.  Defendant argues Plaintiff offers
no authority that renders an affirmative defense based on “reservation of
defenses” false, irrelevant or improper. 

            Reply
            On reply, Plaintiff maintains he
satisfied the meet and confer requirement as to both motions.  Plaintiff argues Defendant fails to present
any substantive opposition to the demurrer. 
Plaintiff argues the statute of limitations defense must be stricken as
false. 
II.  Applicable Law
            Demurrer to Answer
            “A party against whom an answer has
been filed may object, by demurrer as provided in Section 430.30, to the answer
upon any one or more of the following grounds: (a) The answer does not state
facts sufficient to constitute a defense. (b) The answer is uncertain. As used
in this subdivision, “uncertain” includes ambiguous and unintelligible. (c)
Where the answer pleads a contract, it cannot be ascertained from the answer
whether the contract is written or oral.” 
(CCP §430.20.)
            Demurrer to an answer must be
overruled if any defense to the complaint is properly alleged.  (South Shore Land Co. v. Petersen
(1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 733–734 (demurrer to answer properly overruled based
on sufficiently pled general denial)(“if one of the defenses or counterclaims
is free from the objections urged by demurrer, then a demurrer to the entire
answer must be overruled”).)  A general
denial contained in the answer requires that the entire demurrer be
overruled.  (People ex rel. Becerra v.
Superior Court (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 486, 499 (discussing MJP based on
failure to state facts to constitute a defense); Engine Manufacturers Assn.
v. State Air Resources Bd. (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 1022, 1034 (MJP must be
denied if “defendant's pleadings raise a material issue or set up affirmative
matter constituting a defense”); Allstate Ins. Co. v. Kim W. (1984)
160 Cal.App.3d 326, 331 (MJP should be denied if answer either contains general
denial or states facts in support of affirmative defenses); Barasch v.
Epstein (1957) 147 Cal.App.2d 439, 443 (“[w]here the answer, fairly
construed, suggests that the defendant may have a good defense, a motion for
judgment on the pleadings should not be granted”).)
            “An affirmative defense must be
pleaded in the same manner as if the facts were set forth in a complaint. In
other words, the general requirement of stating the ultimate facts applies and,
where particularity in pleading is necessary in a complaint, it is equally
necessary in an affirmative defense involving the issue.”  (5 Witkin, Cal. Proc. (5th ed. 2008)
Plead, § 1082; see also Timberidge Enterprises, Inc. v. City of Santa Rosa
(1978) 86 Cal.App.3d 873, 879-880 (demurrer to answer asks whether the answer
raises a defense to the plaintiff's stated cause of action).)  Pleadings are meant “to inform ...
adversaries of the nature of the cause which they state against them with
sufficient particularity to advise them of the issue they will be required to
meet at the trial of the action.”  (Lewis
v. Fahn (1952) 113 Cal.App.2d 95, 100.) 
Facts that establish a complete discharge of defendant's previously
accrued liability must be specially pleaded. 
(5 Witkin, supra, § 1082.)
            Motion to Strike
            “The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section
435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a)
Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (b)
Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”  (CCP §436.) 

            Pursuant
to CCP §436, the Court may strike out “any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading” and/or “all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.”  (CCP §436.)  In ruling on a motion to strike, the
allegations in the complaint are considered in context and presumed to be true:
“[J]udges read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a
whole, all parts in their context, and assume their truth.”  (Clauson v. Sup.Ct. (Pedus Services, Inc.)
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)   
III.  Application to Facts
            A.  Meet and Confer
            Plaintiff
sufficiently met and conferred pursuant to CCP §§430.10 and 435.5. Despite
multiple letters and telephone calls, parties were at an impasse.  
            B.
Demurrer to Answer SUSTAINED with 10 days leave as to 6th
affirmative defense for laches and OVERRULED as to the 2nd through 5th
and 7th through 14th affirmative defenses
            Defendant
was only required to plead ultimate facts in support of the affirmative
defenses alleged.  (McClatchy
Newspapers v. Robertson (1945) 68 Cal.App.2d 138, 142
(defendant was not required to allege specific evidentiary facts in support of
defense of extension of time of payment; defendant was only required to allege
ultimate facts); 5 Witkin, Cal. Proc. (5th ed. 2008) Plead, §
1082.)  Plaintiff fails to cite any
authority requiring Defendant to plead any of the defenses with
specificity.  
            In addition, Defendant’s answer includes a general
denial.  In assessing whether each
affirmative defense is sufficiently stated, the Court must consider the facts
in the complaint generally denied by Defendant. 

            Applying these principles to Defendant’s answer and
Plaintiff’s demurrer thereto, Defendant sufficiently alleges ultimate facts in
support of the following affirmative defenses:
(1) 2nd
affirmative defense (unclean hands): 
“Plaintiff’s conduct bars him from any recovery…”
(2) 3rd
affirmative defense (supervening or intervening case):  “all injuries and damages if any, sustained
or suffered by Plaintiff were directly and proximately caused by superseding or
intervening acts or omissions of persons or entities other than Defendant…”
(3) 4th
affirmative defense (estoppel):  “the
Complaint is barred by the conduct, actions, and inactions of Plaintiff”
(4) 5th
affirmative defense (waiver):  “the
Complaint is barred by the conduct, actions, and inactions of Plaintiff…”
(7) 7th
affirmative defense (statute of limitations): 
“the Complaint is barred by the applicable statute of
limitations…California Code of Civil Procedure §340.6.”
(8) 8th
affirmative defense (judgmental immunity): 
“the Complaint…is barred in while or in part because any alleged
actions, or decisions, or advice of Defendant were the result of considered and
reasonable research to determine the relevant legal principles and the exercise
of intelligent assessment of the issues…”
(9) 9th
affirmative defense:  “Plaintiff is
barred from any recovery in this action insofar as Plaintiff willingly and
voluntarily consented, and/or ratified or approved…any such conduct.”
(10) 10th
affirmative defense (comparative fault): 
“To the extent Plaintiff has suffered any of the damages alleged in the
Complaint, Plaintiff and his agents are responsible in whole or in part for
those damages…”
(11) 11th
affirmative defense (fault of others):  “the
damages suffered by Plaintiff…were directly and proximately caused by the acts,
omissions, carelessness or negligence of persons or entities other than
Defendant…”
(12) 12th
affirmative defense (contribution):  “if
it is found that Defendant contributed in some fashion to the loss and/or
damages alleged by Plaintiff…any such contribution is secondary and of a lesser
kind, whereas the fault and liability of Plaintiff are  primary, active and gross…”
(13)  13th affirmative defense (failure
to mitigate):  “Plaintiff has failed to
mitigate their alleged damages”
(13) 14th
affirmative defense (offset):  “damages
suffered by Plaintiff…are subject to offset by the unpaid attorneys’ fees and
costs owed by Plaintiff to Defendant Rudoy.”
            However, Defendant fails to allege any ultimate facts in
support of the 6th affirmative defense for laches.  “To establish a successful affirmative
defense based on laches, a defendant must show that the plaintiff unreasonably
delayed in filing suit, together with either the plaintiff's acquiescence in
the conduct about which it complains or prejudice to the defendant because of
the delay.”  (City of Hesperia v. Lake
Arrowhead Community Services District (July 12, 2023) 2023 WL 4485099, at
*12.)  Defendant merely alleges “the
Complaint…is barred by the doctrine of laches.” 
 
            Finally, Plaintiff’s demurrer based on uncertainty is
overruled.  Plaintiff argues the failure
to identify the specific cause of action to which each defense is asserted
renders the answer uncertain.  CCP
§430.20(b) defines “uncertain” to include “ambiguous and unintelligible.”  The failure to identify the specific action
to which each defense is asserted does not render the answer ambiguous or
unintelligible, particularly given that only three causes of action are
asserted in the complaint, and they are all based on identical facts.  
            Plaintiff’s demurrer to Defendant’s 2nd
through 14th affirmative defenses is SUSTAINED WITH 10 DAYS LEAVE TO
AMEND as to the 6th affirmative defense for laches per CCP
§430.20(a)(“answer does not state sufficient facts”) and OVERRULED as to the 2nd
through 5th and 7th through 14th affirmative
defenses.  
            C.  Motion to
Strike is DENIED as to the 7th affirmative defense (statute of
limitations) and 15th affirmative defense (reservation of defenses)
            Plaintiff argues his complaint is not barred by the
1-year statute of limitations, because he filed his complaint within a year of
Defendant’s filing of a substitution of attorney in 20STCV21243.  (Motion to Strike, Ex. A.)  Plaintiff argues the SOL defense should be
stricken as “false.”  
            While the filing of the substitution of attorney is
judicially noticeable, it does not establish that the defense is “false” or any
allegation in support thereof is ”false.” 
Rather Plaintiff is arguing that the SOL defense fails as an issue of
law, because the earliest the legal malpractice claim could have accrued was
when the substitution was filed.  Such an
issue is not one of “falsity” under CCP §435 but an issue of fact that should
be resolved based on summary judgment or at trial.  (Communities for a Better Environment v.
Bay Area Air Quality Management Dist. (2016) 1 Cal.App.4th 715, 722
(“Whether the statute of limitations bars an action, including whether accrual
of the action was delayed under the discovery rule, is normally a question of
fact.”))  
            Moreover, Plaintiff fails to cite any authority holding
that, as an issue of law and regardless of any other circumstances, a legal
malpractice claim cannot accrue before a substitution of attorney is filed or
that accrual is necessarily determined by the filing of a substitution of
attorney.  (See e.g. Shaoxing City
Maolong Wuzhong Down Products, Ltd. v. Keehn & Associates, APC  (“[w]here an attorney unilaterally withdraws
or abandons his client, the representation ends when the client actually has or
reasonably should have no expectation that the attorney will provide further
legal services; substitution of attorney ordinarily ends a legal relationship
but relationship can continue despite substitution of attorney depending on
circumstances”).)  
            With regard to the 15th affirmative defense
for “reservation of defenses,” the Court agrees that this is not a recognized
affirmative defense.  However, Plaintiff
fails to establish that inclusion of a reservation of defenses is “false,” as
Plaintiff maintains in his motion to strike. 

            Request for Judicial Notice
            Plaintiff’s RJN is contained in the
memo of points and authorities as provided for under CCP §430.70.  However, Plaintiff’s RJN fails to comply with
CRC Rule 3.1113, which requires that the request be made in a separate
document. 
            Plaintiff’s RJN is GRANTED as to the
Complaint filed in this action, the Answer filed in this action and the
Substitution of Attorney filed in 20STCV21243. 
The Court only takes judicial notice that these documents were filed and
not the truth of any statements therein. 
(Herrera v. Deutsche Bank Nat'l Trust Co. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th
1366, 1375.)
            Plaintiff’s RJN is DENIED as to the
meet and confer declarations submitted in support of these motions.  Plaintiff’s meet and confer declaration is
being submitted as evidence of the meet and confer and the truth of the matters
attested to therein. 
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiff’s Demurrer to Defendant Martin
Rudoy’s Answer is SUSTAINED WITH 10 DAYS 
LEAVE TO AMEND as to the 6th affirmative defense for laches
and OVERRULED as to the 2nd through 5th and 7th
through 14th affirmative defenses. 

            Plaintiff’s Motion to Strike the 7th
and 15th affirmative defenses is DENIED.  
            Moving party to give notice.
            If counsel do not submit on the
tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than
in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.