 Case Number:  23PSCV02745    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  G Plaintiff Gregory Allen French’s Motion for Trial
Preference
Respondent: Defendant Southern
California Specialty Care, LLC
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff Gregory Allen French’s Motion for Trial
Preference is GRANTED
BACKGROUND
This
is an action for elder abuse. Defendant Southern California Specialty Care, LLC
is an acute care hospital that operates in West Covina under the name Kindred
Hospital – San Gabriel Valley (Kindred SGV). In July 2022, Kindred SGV admitted
Plaintiff Gregory Allen French after French had suffered a stroke. During
French’s sixty day stay at Kindred SGV, French alleges French developed a stage
four pressure ulcer on the sacral/coccyx area of French’s body.
On
September 7, 2023, French filed a complaint against Kindred SGV and Does 1-250,
alleging a single cause of action for elder abuse.
On October 5,
2023, French filed the present motion. A hearing on the motion and an informal
discovery conference are set for December 8 with a case management conference
on February 8, 2024.
ANALYSIS
French
moves for a court order specially setting the present action for trial pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 36. For the following reasons, the court GRANTS French’s motion.
Legal Standard
Code
of Civil Procedure section 36 establishes four grounds upon which trial
preference can be obtained. First, the court must grant a motion for preference
in a civil action when it is brought by a party who is over seventy years of
age, has a substantial interest in the action, and has health issues that require
preference “to prevent prejudicing the party’s interest in the litigation.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 39, subd. (a).) Second, “[a] civil action to recover
damages for wrongful death or personal injury shall be entitled to preference
upon the motion of any party to the action who is under 14 years of age unless
the court finds that the party does not have a substantial interest in the case
as a whole.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (b).)
Third,
“[i]n its discretion, the court may also grant a motion for preference that is
accompanied by clear and convincing medical documentation that concludes that
one of the parties suffers from an illness or condition raising substantial
medical doubt of survival of that party beyond six months, and that satisfies
the court that the interests of justice will be served by granting the
preference.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (d).) Fourth and last, “[n]otwithstanding
any other provision of law, the court may in its discretion grant a motion for
preference that is supported by a showing that satisfies the court that the
interests of justice will be served by granting this preference.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 36, subd. (e).)
Discussion
In
this case, French argues for trial preference pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 36, subdivision (d). In support of French’s motion, French
relies on the declaration of Shahab Attarchi, M.D. In that declaration, Dr.
Attarchi opines that French’s medical conditions have led to the rapid
deterioration of French’s health and that there is “substantial medical doubt
that [French] has more than six months to live.” (Dr. Attarchi Decl., ¶ 6.) Dr.
Attarchi bases this opinion on the fact that French has been receiving long
term antibiotic treatment for a spinal infection and opines that this long-term
use of antibiotics will make it difficult for physicians to treat future
infections. (Dr. Attarchi Decl., ¶ 8.) Dr. Attarchi also notes that French’s
use of a Foley catheter creates a high risk of urinary tract infections and
that any infection places French at high risk of sepsis and death. (Dr.
Attarchi Decl., ¶ 8.) Additionally, Dr. Attarchi notes French is at a high risk
of death due to poorly managed type II diabetes, a history of pulmonary
embolism, morbid obesity, and vascular disease that could result in fatal blood
clots. (Dr. Attarchi Decl., ¶ 8.)
In opposition,
Kindred SGV argues Dr. Attarchi failed to provide reasoned explanations for this
opinion because Dr. Attarchi does not discuss French’s receipt of or response
to medical treatments for these health issues. In a supplemental declaration
filed at the request of the court, Dr. Attarchi provides more detail.
Dr.
Attarchi states French is suffering from a stage four sacral decubitus ulcer
that is not responding well to treatment and is getting worse overtime. (Dr.
Attarchi Suppl. Decl., ¶ 15.) Dr. Attarchi notes French’s ulcer puts French at
a high risk of developing a life-threatening infection due to French’s
long-term antibiotics use. (Dr. Attarchi Suppl. Decl., ¶ 15.) Dr. Attarchi also
states French is currently experiencing osteomyelitis, which is a bone
infection. (Dr. Attarchi Suppl. Decl., ¶ 18.) While French is receiving
antibiotic treatment for this condition, Dr. Attarchi states there is no
evidence French is positively responding to the treatment and that it is likely
to spread. (Dr. Attarchi Suppl. Decl., ¶ 18.) Ultimately, Dr. Attarchi
concludes that the cumulative effects of French’s medical conditions give
French a very poor medical prognosis and lead to substantial medical doubt
regarding whether French has more than six months to live. (Dr. Attarchi Suppl.
Decl., ¶ 19.)
Based
on Dr. Attarchi’s original and supplemental declarations, the court finds
French established substantial medical doubt regarding French’s survival beyond
the next six months. Accordingly, the court GRANTS French’s motion.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, French’s
motion for trial preference is GRANTED.
The court will set a trial date
and a final status conference date at the hearing.