 Case Number:  22STCP03920    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  26  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26
 



sam
  burton,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
  
 
keelson
  strategic corporation; tercio elite, llc; tercio elite consulting, inc.;
  nathanial a. romero; and
  NICHOLAS J. MOLINA,
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  22STCP03920
 
  Hearing Date:  December 12, 2023
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
APPLICATION FOR AN ORDER PERMITTING AMIT SHERTZER
  AS COUNSEL PRO HAC VICE 
 



 
Amit Shertzer (“Shertzer”) applies as counsel pro hac vice for Defendants
Tercio Elite, LLC, Tercio Elite Consulting, Inc., Nathaniel A. Romero, and
Nicholas J. Molina.  The application is unopposed.

Under CRC Rule 9.40, attorneys licensed and in
good standing in other states may, upon the California court’s approval, appear
as counsel pro hac vice in a pending
case if an active member of the state bar is associated as attorney of
record.  (CRC 9.40(a).)  Shertzer is an active member,
in good standing, of the State New York, the State of New Jersey, the United
States District Court for the Southern District of New York, the United States
District Court for the Eastern District of New York, the United States District
Court of New Jersey, and the United States Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit.  (Shertzer Decl. ¶¶ 3-4.)  In addition, Shertzer states that he is not a
resident of California or regularly engaged in business in California and is a
resident of New York, New York with an office in New York, New York.  (Shertzer Decl. ¶¶ 2, 6.) 
Shertzer states that states that he has applied to be admitted pro
hac vice in a California proceeding once in the last two years in the Los
Angeles Superior Court Case entitled action entitled Kiari Cephus aka Offset
and Sallie Smith, LLC v. Quality Control Music, LLC (LASC Case No.
22STCV27458) which was granted on April 11, 2023.  (Shertzer Decl. ¶ 5.)  Thus, counsel satisfy the
eligibility requirements of CRC 9.40(a).
Shertzer’s application successfully addresses all six
content requirements outlined in CRC 9.40(d). 
Specifically, Shertzer provides
in his application: (1) his residence and office address (Shertzer
Decl. ¶ 2); (2) the courts to which Shertzer has been admitted to practice and the
dates of admission (Shertzer Decl. ¶ 3); (3) that Shertzer is a member in good
standing in those courts (Shertzer Decl. ¶ 4); (4) that he is not currently
suspended or disbarred in any court (Shertzer Decl. ¶ 4); (5) the title of each
court and cause in which the applicant has filed an application to appear as
counsel pro hac vice in this state in the preceding two years,
and whether or not it was granted if any (Shertzer Decl. ¶ 5); and (6) the
name, address, and telephone number of an active member, Mark B. Chassman of
the State Bar of California who is the current counsel of record for Defendants
Tercio Elite, LLC, Tercio Elite Consulting, Inc., Nathaniel A. Romero, and
Nicholas J. Molina.  (Shertzer
Decl. ¶ 7).
Furthermore, Shertzer demonstrates that he has meet the requirement of CRC 9.40(c)(1). That rule
provides: “a person desiring to appear as counsel pro hac vice in a superior court must file with the court a
verified application together with proof of service . . . of a copy of the
application and of the notice on all parties who have appeared in the cause and
on the State Bar of California at its San Francisco office.”  (See Shertzer Decl. ¶ 9.)
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
The application of Amit Shertzer to appear as counsel pro hac vice for Defendants Tercio Elite, LLC, Tercio Elite
Consulting, Inc., Nathaniel A. Romero, and Nicholas J. Molina is GRANTED.
The
Moving Party is ordered to provide notice of this order and file a proof of service
of such.
 
DATED: December ___, 2023                                               ___________________________
                                                                                          Elaine
Lu
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court