 Case Number:  23CHCV02165    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  F49    Dept. F49      Date: 6/5/24     Case Name: Southwest California    Properties, LLC, v. Maria Verdugo, Orlando Duron, and Does 1 - 10     Case # 23CHCV02165      LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT DEPARTMENT F49    JUNE 5, 2024    MOTION  TO SET ASIDE JUDGMENT AND QUASH WRIT OF POSSESSION  Los  Angeles Superior Court Case No. 23CHCV02165    Motion filed:  4/17/24   MOVING  PARTY: Defendants  Maria Verdugo and Orlando Duron (“Defendants”) RESPONDING  PARTY: Plaintiff Southwest  California Properties, LLC (“Plaintiff”) NOTICE: OK.    RELIEF REQUESTED: An  order from this Court to set aside the Default Judgment dated March 5, 2024,  against Defendants, and to quash writ of possession.   TENTATIVE RULING: The  Motion to Set Aside Judgment and Quash Writ of Possession is DENIED.    BACKGROUND   This case arises from  alleged lease disputes between the landlord Plaintiff and the tenant  Defendants.    On July 21, 2023, Plaintiff  filed a Complaint against Defendants, and Does 1 to 10, alleging two causes of  actions: (1) Breach of Contract, and (2) Common Counts.    On September 21, 2023,  Plaintiff filed its request for entry of default, which the Court rejected for lack  of proof of service.    On March 4, 2024, Plaintiff  filed its Request for Dismissal as to Defendant Maria Verdugo and Does 1 to 10,  which the Clerk entered the same day. Additionally, Plaintiff filed its Request  for Entry of Default Judgment against Defendant Orlando Duron and concurrently  submitted a proof of personal service. The Court granted the Default Judgment  on March 5, 2024.    On April 17, Defendants  filed the instant Motion to Set Aside the Default Judgment to Quash Writ of  Possession (the “Motion”). Subsequently, Plaintiff filed its Opposition on  April 26, 2024.    ANALYSIS   Code of Civil Procedure section 473 subdivision (b) provides, in  pertinent part, that “[t]he court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a  party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or  other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,  inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall  be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed  therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made within  a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,  dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.”    Code of Civil Procedure  section 473.5, subdivision (a) sets forth, in relevant part, that “[w]hen service of a summons has not resulted in actual  notice to a party in time to defend the action and a default or default  judgment has been entered against him or her in the action, he or she may serve  and file a notice of motion to set aside the default or default judgment and  for leave to defend the action.”    Code of Civil Procedure  section 473.5, subdivision (c), further provides, “Upon a finding by the court  that the motion was made within the period permitted by subdivision (a) and  that his or her lack of actual notice in time to defend the action was not  caused by his or her avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect, it may set  aside the default or default judgment on whatever terms as may be just and  allow the party to defend the action.”   A.    Motion to Set Aside Judgment              Defendants move  the Court to set aside the Default Judgment dated March 5, 2024 (the “Default  Judgment”). Defendants argue that the Default Judgment should be set aside on  the grounds of lack of actual notice of the suit under the authority of Code of  Civil Procedure section 473.5. (Mot., at p. 4.) Alternatively, Defendants argue  that the Default Judgment should be set aside based on mistake and excusable neglect,  pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b), and section  473.5, subdivision (c). (Mot., at p. 5.)   Before  proceeding, the Court notes the case record reflecting that the Default  Judgment was entered against one Defendant Orlando Duron (“Duron”). (3/5/24  Judgment) The case record also indicates that the other moving Defendant Maria  Verdugo had been dismissed at Plaintiff’s request on March 4, 2024.                Accordingly, the Motion is deemed  moot as to Defendant Maria Verdugo.   1)      Defendant  Duron’s Lack of Actual Notice of the Action   Duron  asserts that he was never properly served with the complaint and summons in  this case, depriving the Court of having personal jurisdiction over him and  rendering the Default Judgment void. (Mot., at p. 4.)   It  is settled case law that “[w]hen a defendant challenges the court’s  personal jurisdiction on the ground of improper service of process, ‘the burden  is on the plaintiff to prove the existence of jurisdiction by proving, inter  alia, the facts requisite to an effective service.’” (Summers v. McClanahan  (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 403, 413.) Filing proof of service that complies with  the applicable statutory requirements creates a rebuttable presumption of  proper service. (Floveyor Internat., Ltd. v. Superior Court (1997) 59  Cal.App.4th 789, 795.) Notably, the reliability of a service declaration from a  registered process server is set by statute. The return of a process server  registered pursuant to Chapter 16 (commencing with §22350) of Division 8 of the  Business and Professions Code upon process or notice establishes a presumption,  affecting the burden of producing evidence, of the facts stated in the return.  (Evid. Code § 647.)   Here,  Plaintiff filed a proof of personal service on March 4, 2024, which declares  that a registered process server, Kris Fujimoto, served Duron, “at 13083  Cascade Court, Arleta, CA 91331 ... on 7/23/23 ... at (time): 11:00 a.m.” (3/24/24  Proof of Personal Service, ¶¶ 3-5,7) Additionally, Kris Fujimoto attests, “I  had previously, on June 4, 2023, served this same individual a summons and  complaint in unlawful detainer case number 23CHUD00766[.]” (Fujimoto Decl., ¶  5.)    However, the  Court observes a discrepancy in the declaration by Kris Fujimoto in Plaintiff’s  reply papers, stating that the personal service in question “was made in  driveway at 13839 Cascade Avenue, Arleta, California, 91331” (Fujimoto  Decl., ¶ 3) (underlines added), which indicates a different street number from  the address as declared on Plaintiff’s proof of service, namely “13083 Cascade  Court, Arleta, CA 91331.”  (2024/3/4  Proof of Service, ¶ 4.)   Notably, Duron’s  declaration concedes that the address on the Proof of Service dated March 4,  2024, is the correct address. (Duron Decl., ¶ 2.) He does not argue that any  information is incorrect on the Proof of Service but merely states he did not  receive proper personal service without presenting any factual evidence,  failing to meet the burden to rebut the presumption.   Based on the  foregoing, the Court DENIES the Motion to Set Aside Default Judgment.              2)      Defendant  Duron’s Mistake and Excusable Neglect   Duron  further contends that his lack of actual notice in time to defend was not  caused by his avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect; thus, he maintains  that the Court may set aside the default or default judgment, pursuant to Code  of Civil Procedure section 473.5, subdivision (c), and section 473 subdivision  (b). (Mot., at p. 5)   The Court  notes that this argument fundamentally relies on the determination of previous  issue of the valid personal service. Given that the Court has concluded that  Defendant Duron has not met his burden to rebut the presumption of valid personal  service established by the Proof of Service dated March 4, 2024, the Court  finds this argument – based on the same ground that he lacks actual notice of  the case – must fail.   Accordingly,  the Court DENIES the Motion to Set Aside Default Judgment on this ground.   B.     Motion to Quash Writ of Possession   The Court  notes that the case record does not include a Writ of Possession. Additionally,  Defendant Duron does not assert any alternative grounds to support his motion  to quash writ of possession, other than his claim of not being properly served.     For the same  reason explained in the above analysis, the Court DENIES the Motion to Quash  Writ of Possession.    CONCLUSION   Defendants’ Motion to Set Aside Default Judgment  and Quash Writ of Possession is DENIED.   Moving party to give notice.