..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: [Not specified]
Plaintiff's Name: Kaiser
Defendant's Name: [Not specified]
People-Names: Kaiser
Company-Names: Kaiser, Adobe
Places: [Not specified]
Dates: [Multiple dates mentioned, but none specific]
Events: Disclosure of personal health information, interception of data, transmission to servers
Money: Damages allegations (conclusory)
Intentions: Plaintiff claims Kaiser disclosed personal health information without consent
Facts: Plaintiff's complaint alleges interception, collection, and transmission of data; Kaiser's notices of privacy practices are not part of the record
Disputes: Reasonable expectation of privacy, consent, and damages
Acts: Disclosure of personal health information, interception of data, transmission to servers
Agreements: Kaiser's notices of privacy practices (not part of the record)
Laws: [Not specified]
Case Citations: Google, Federated
Statutes: [Not specified]
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant
Significant Statements:
  - Plaintiff claims Kaiser's notices of privacy practices state that consent is required for disclosure of personal health information.
  - The Court is judicially noticing Exhibit A, a public document filed with the federal government.
  - The Court agrees with Defendant that damages allegations are conclusory and requires Plaintiff to amend to add facts explaining the alleged diminishment.
```

And here is a summary in English text:

This is a tentative ruling by a Judge regarding a future court hearing. The case involves Kaiser, a company that allegedly disclosed personal health information without obtaining the necessary consent. The Plaintiff claims that Kaiser's notices of privacy practices explicitly state that consent is required, but these notices are not part of the record. The Court is judicially noticing Exhibit A, a public document filed with the federal government. The Defendant argues that the Plaintiff did not have a reasonable expectation of privacy because Kaiser disclosed in its Privacy Statement that data is shared with third-party providers like Adobe. The Court agrees that the damages allegations are conclusory and requires the Plaintiff to amend to add facts explaining the alleged diminishment.
