  Case Number:  23STCV11136    Hearing Date:   March 18, 2024    Dept:  11 23STCV11136 (Doe)
 
Tentative Ruling Re: Demurrer and Motion to Strike
 
Date:                           3/18/24
Time:                          2:30
PM
Moving Party:           Adobe, Inc. (“Defendant” or “Adobe”)
Opposing Party:        Jane Doe
(“Plaintiff”)
Department:              11
Judge:                        David
S. Cunningham III
________________________________________________________________________
 
TENTATIVE RULING


Request for Judicial Notice (“RJN”)
 
Defendant’s RJN is: 
 
* granted as to Exhibit A; and
 
* denied as to Exhibits B through T. 
 
Demurrer
 
Defendant’s demurrer is:
 
* sustained with leave to amend as to the
first cause of action (California Invasion of Privacy Act (“CIPA”), section
631), fifth cause of action (unjust enrichment), sixth cause of action (Unfair
Competition Law (“UCL”)), seventh cause of action (larceny), and eighth cause
of action (conversion); and 
 
* overruled as to consent, the second cause
of action (CIPA, section 632), third cause of action (right of privacy), and
fourth cause of action (invasion of privacy/intrusion upon seclusion).
  
Motion to Strike
 
Defendant’s motion to strike is granted with
leave to amend as to punitive damages.
 

BACKGROUND
 
This is a putative class action.  The
complaint alleges:
 
1. Patients
rightfully expect that their healthcare concerns and choices will be private.
And the law protects the privacy of healthcare information. This case is about
a serious violation of that core privacy interest. 
 
2. Plaintiff, like
millions of other class members, obtained healthcare from Kaiser Permanente
(“Kaiser”). As for any medical provider, state and common law protect the
privacy of the healthcare information held by Kaiser and exchanged between
Plaintiff and Class Members, on the one hand, and Kaiser, on the other. 
 
3. One place that
legal protection is important is the Kaiser Website, which Kaiser Members use
to access their medical records, including prescriptions and immunizations,
research their medical conditions, find and communicate with doctors, and
undertake other interactions related to the provision of healthcare services. 
 
4. Unfortunately and
unlawfully, Defendant . . . repeatedly and systematically violated that
legally-protected privacy interest by extracting private health and personally
identifiable information from Kaiser Members’ communications with the Kaiser
Website. 
 
5. Through
Defendant’s code embedded on the Kaiser Website, Defendant has vacuumed up
information about Kaiser Members’ medical conditions, immunizations,
prescriptions, physician information, and other private data, including
healthcare search terms, videos watched, and links accessed. All of that
information is linked to particular patients because Defendant takes that data
together with unique identifiers that allow Defendant to identify the
corresponding Kaiser Member. 
 
6. Plaintiff and
Class Members did not consent to Defendant’s taking of this highly sensitive
and legally-protected medical and other information. Defendant’s conduct is
unlawful, and it must be stopped.
 
(Complaint, ¶¶ 1-6.)
 
Plaintiff asserts eight causes of action:
 
* violation of section 631 of CIPA;
 
* violation of section 632 of CIPA;
 
* violation of the right of privacy;
 
* invasion of privacy/intrusion upon seclusion;
 
* unjust enrichment;
 
* violation of the UCL;
 
* larceny; and
 
* conversion.
 
At issue here is Defendant’s demurrer and motion to strike.
 
LAW
 
Demurrer
 
When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context, and “treat the demurrer
as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5
Cal.3d 584, 591.)  “A demurrer
tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or
are judicially noticed.”  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  It is error “to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if the
plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any defect identified by the
defendant can be cured by amendment.”  (Aubry v.
Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Motion
to Strike
 
“Motions to strike can be used to reach
defects in or objections to pleadings that are not challengeable by demurrer.”  (Edmon & Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide:
Civ. Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group June 2023 Update) ¶ 7:156.)  “Complaints, cross-complaints, answers and
demurrers are all subject to a motion to strike [citation].”  (Ibid.)  “Moreover, a motion to strike can be used to
attack the entire pleading, or any part thereof – i.e., even single words or
phrases (unlike demurrers).”  (Ibid.)
 
The motion can be used to strike “any ‘irrelevant, false or improper matter inserted in
any pleading’” or “any pleading or part thereof ‘not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order
of the court.’”  (Id. at ¶ 7:167,
emphasis in original.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Consent
 
Defendant contends the demurrer
should be sustained as to all causes of action because Plaintiff “consented to
Kaiser’s service providers, like Adobe, processing her data to provide services
to Kaiser.”  (Motion, p. 7.)  Defendant claims Plaintiff consented by
agreeing to the privacy statement on Kaiser’s website each time she logged
in.  (See id. at pp. 5-7; see also Reply,
pp. 1-3.)
 
Plaintiff disagrees.  She claims:
 
* the complaint alleges that
Plaintiff did not consent (see Opposition, p. 5);
 
* Defendant’s argument is based
on documents that should not be judicially noticed (see ibid.); and
 
* even if the Court considers the
documents, the privacy statement: 
 
– “says nothing
about Adobe” (id. at p. 6); and 
 
– does not
include “an express disclosure that a third party is acquiring” the
user’s “medical information” (id. at p. 5, emphasis in original).[1]
 
According to Defendant, the
privacy statement appears on Kaiser’s website.  Defendant asks the Court to judicially notice
printouts from the website so that the privacy statement can be part of the
record.  (See RJN, Exs. B-T.)  
 
The Court finds that the RJN
should be denied because the website pages lack authentication and verification,
but, alternatively, the Court could only judicially notice the existence of
the documents, not the truth of their contents.[2]  
 
Notably, it is unclear on the
faces of the printouts whether the privacy statement remained consistent and in
place for the entire alleged class period. 
The printouts are dated July 29, 2012 (Exhibit T), January 22, 2014
(Exhibit S), August 26, 2016 (Exhibit R), July 10, 2019 (Exhibit Q), April 1,
2020 (Exhibit P), September 15, 2020 (Exhibit O), April 19, 2021 (Exhibit N),
August 29, 2021 (Exhibit M), and September 15, 2023 (Exhibit L).  (See id. at p. 13.)  The alleged class period for the UCL class,
for example, would start four years before the filing of the complaint on May
16, 2023 – i.e., May 16, 2019.  (See
Stern, Business & Professions Code Section 17200 Practice (The Rutter Group
March 2023 Update) ¶ 5:290 [noting that the UCL statute of limitations is four
years].)  The documents cover particular
days in 2019, 2020, 2021, and 2023, and there is nothing for the year
2022.  While Defendant wants the Court to
assume that the privacy statement stayed the same throughout the alleged class
period, it would be improper to make an assumption at the demurrer stage.  
 
The documents also raise factual
issues concerning conspicuousness and the steps by which users agreed to the
privacy statement.  It appears from the
printouts of the login page that users had the option of clicking on a link to
the privacy statement yet were not obligated to click on it.  The link was in small font, creating doubt as
to whether it was conspicuous enough. 
(See RJN, Ex. L, p. 148, Ex. K, p. 150.) 
 
One last point.  The privacy statement states:
 
We may also disclose
your personal information to third parties who provide services on our
behalf to help with our business activities. 
These companies are authorized to use your personal information
only as necessary to provide these services to use pursuant to written
instructions.  In such cases, these
companies must abide by our data privacy and security requirements, and are not
allowed to use your personal information they receive from use for any
other purpose.
 
(Id. at Ex. L, § 13, emphasis
added.)  It is interesting that the
statement utilizes the term “personal information.”  “Personal information” is defined as
“information that is individually identifiable.”  (Id. at Ex. L, p. 152.)  Missing from the definition, though, is a
reference to medical information, which tends to render the definition vague,
at least for now. 
 
For these reasons, the Court
rejects Defendant’s consent argument at this stage.  The issue should be decided on a full record
via a merits motion or at trial.
 
Section 631
 
“Section 631 has been interpreted by California
courts as containing three different clauses which cover ‘three distinct and mutually
independent patterns of conduct.’”  (Valenzuela
v. Nationwide Mutual Ins. Co. (C.D. Cal. Aug. 14, 2023) No.
2:22-cv-06177-MEMF-SK, 2023 WL 5266033, at *3.) 
“The three patterns of conduct that Section 631 prohibits are: (1) ‘intentional
wiretapping;’ (2) ‘attempting to learn the contents or meaning of a
communication in transit over a wire;’ and (3) ‘attempting to use or
communicate information obtained as a result of engaging in either of the
previous two activities.’”  (Ibid.)  “In addition to these three clauses, Section
631 contains an aiding provision which imposes liability on anyone who ‘aids,
agrees with, employs, or conspires with any person or persons’ in violating the
three clauses described above.”  (Ibid.)

 
Defendant asserts that
Plaintiff’s cause of action only involves the second clause. Defendant contends
the demurrer should be sustained because “[s]oftware providers, like Adobe,
fall within [a] well-established ‘party exception’ when a website owner (Kaiser)
uses them merely as an ‘extension’ or ‘tool,’ akin to a tape recorder as
opposed to an independent third party who can later do something more with the
information.”  (Motion, p. 8; see also
id. at pp. 9-10; Reply, pp. 3-4.)
 
In response, Plaintiff contends
Defendant is liable because it “had the capability to use the collected
information for other purposes[.]” 
(Opposition, p. 9.)
 
The case law on this issue is
split.  Both sides cite multiple cases
that support their positions.  (See
Motion, p. 8 [citing Graham v. Noom (N.D. Cal. 2021) 533 F.Supp.3d 823];
see also id. at p. 9 n.8 [citing several other cases]; Opposition, pp. 9-10
[citing Javier v. Assurance IQ, LLC (N.D. Cal. 2023) 649 F.Supp.3d 891,
among other cases].)  The cited cases are
federal decisions. 
 
Defendant’s cases, led by Graham,
seem to be policy-based whereas Plaintiff’s cases, led by Javier, focus on
section 631’s plain language.  
 
Statutory interpretation is
supposed to start with the statute’s text. 
(See Medical Bd. of California v. Superior Court (2001) 88
Cal.App.4th 1001, 1013.) 
Policy matters should come into play when the language is ambiguous and
susceptible to more than one reasonable interpretation.  (See Grassi v. Superior Court (2021)
73 Cal.App.5th 283, 291.) 
When that happens, a court should review the legislative history, “look
to additional canons of statutory construction” if need be, and then resort to
policy considerations.  (Ibid.; see also Imperial
Merchant Services, Inc. v. Hunt (2009) 47 Cal.4th 381, 388.)
 
Graham arguably skips past
the text and goes directly to the policy analysis.
 
The Court appreciates the policy
arguments in Defendant’s cases, but Plaintiff’s cases appear more compatible
with the plain language.  The second
clause makes it unlawful when a person “willfully and without consent of all
parties to the communication, or in any unauthorized manner, reads, or attempts
to read, or to learn the contents or meaning of any message, report, or
communication while the same is in transit[.]” 
(Cal. Penal Code § 631, subd. (a).) 
Using or attempting to use the information, which Defendant’s cases
require (see Graham, supra, 533 F.Supp.3d at 832 [reasoning that the
plaintiff failed to allege that the third party “intercepted and used the data
itself”]), is not part of the second clause; it is part of the third
clause.  Adding a use element to the
second clause probably makes it indistinguishable from the third clause. 
 
Nevertheless, the demurrer should
be sustained with leave to amend. 
Plaintiff fails to highlight a paragraph in the complaint that alleges
that Defendant had the capability to use Plaintiff’s personal information for
another purpose.  (See Complaint, ¶¶
109-121.)  Under her own cases, she needs
to allege these kinds of facts to state a claim.  (See, e.g., Javier, supra, 649
F.Supp.3d at 900 [denying motion to dismiss because the plaintiff alleged that
the third party “can use that information for other purposes”].)  
 
Section 632
 
Section 632 provides:
 
(a) A person who, intentionally and
without the consent of all parties to a confidential communication, uses an
electronic amplifying or recording device to eavesdrop upon or record the
confidential communication, whether the communication is carried on among the
parties in the presence of one another or by means of a telegraph, telephone,
or other device, except a radio, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500) per violation, or imprisonment in a
county jail not exceeding one year, or in the state prison, or by both that
fine and imprisonment. . . .
 
(Cal. Penal Code § 632, subd. (a).)
 
Defendant contends the cause of action fails because Adobe
did not use the alleged device, “and there are no well-pled allegations that
Adobe intended to record any confidential communications without consent.”  (Motion, p. 10; see also id. at pp. 11-12;
Reply, pp. 4-5.)
 
Plaintiff claims Defendant’s argument “ignores the factual
allegations that Adobe intercepted communications between
patients and their medical provider, collected that data, and sent the Private
Data to Adobe’s own servers.” 
(Opposition, p. 11, emphasis in original.)
 
Defendant’s first argument is unavailing.  Defendant asserts that the device is Adobe
software and that Kaiser, not Defendant, used the software on Kaiser’s website
“to provide better service to its website users.”  (Motion, p. 10.)  The assertion is at odds with the complaint.  Numerous paragraphs allege that Defendant
intercepted and collected users’ data from the Kaiser website and transmitted
the data to Defendant’s servers.  (See,
e.g., Complaint, ¶¶ 32, 34, 48, 90, 132.) 
The allegations allege use.
 
The Court also disagrees with Defendant’s second
argument.  Defendant cites Lozano v.
City of Los Angeles (2022) 73 Cal.App.5th 711 and Federated
University Police Officers’ Association v. Regents of the University of
California (C.D. Cal. July 29, 2015) No. 15-CV-00137-JLS-RNBx, 2015 WL
13273308 (“Federated”), claiming the complaint fails to state facts
showing intent to record.  (See Motion,
pp. 11-12.)  The Court found just one
paragraph that expressly mentions intent – paragraph 130.  It is based on information and belief.  (See Complaint, ¶ 130.)  Still, the situation here is different than
the situation in Lozano, a writ-of-mandate case, where the defendant only
understood that “it was deploying recording devices that might happen to
record a confidential communication[.]” (Lozano, supra, 73 Cal.App.5th
at 728, emphasis in original.) Plaintiff’s allegation that Defendant knew the
Adobe software was recording users’ personal information must be accepted as
true, and intent can be inferred from the paragraphs stating that Defendant
intercepted, collected, and transmitted the information to Adobe-controlled
servers.[3]
 
On balance, the demurrer should be overruled.
 
Right of Privacy
 
“[A] plaintiff alleging an invasion of privacy in
violation of the state constitutional right to privacy must establish each of
the following: (1) a legally protected privacy interest; (2) a reasonable
expectation of privacy in the circumstances; and (3) conduct by defendant
constituting a serious invasion of privacy.” 
(Feminist Women’s Health Center v. Superior Court (1997) 52
Cal.App.4th 1234, 1246.)
 
Defendant claims there is no legally protected privacy
interest because:
 
* “Adobe is a mere extension or tool of Kaiser” (Motion, p.
12; see also Reply, pp. 5-6); and
 
* “courts are unwilling to find a legally protected
interest in browsing data for only one website, as opposed to scrapping data
across the entire Internet” (Motion, p. 12; see also Reply, p. 6).
 
The Court reiterates that case
law is split as to the mere-extension exception.  The Court declines to apply the exception
here because Defendant’s cases appear to be inconsistent with the statutory
language.
 
At this point, Plaintiff’s action
seems different than Defendant’s two one-website cases.  Yoon v. Lululemon USA, Inc. (C.D. Cal.
2021) 549 F.Supp.3d 1073 cites In
re Google Location History Litigation (N.D. Cal. 2019) 428 F.Supp.3d 185 (“Google”)
for the proposition that “courts have been less willing to find that users have a cognizable privacy interest
in browsing data collected only while users interact with the website of the
defendant company.”  (Yoon,
supra, 549 F.Supp.3d at 1086, emphasis added.) 
“Plaintiff challenges Adobe’s collection of data during patients’
use of Kaiser’s website.” 
(Opposition, pp. 12-13, emphasis in original.)  Defendant does not cite a case applying the
one-website rule to the facts alleged here.
 
To the extent Defendant contends Plaintiff fails to identify
a legally protected privacy interest, the Court disagrees.  Paragraph 136 states: “Plaintiff and
Class Members have a legally protected privacy interest in their Private Data,
including PHI and PII, that Defendant has intercepted and collected.”  (Complaint, ¶ 136.)  Plaintiff’s personal information consisted,
in part, of personal medical information. 
Unless defense counsel cites a case at the hearing that holds, as a
matter of law, that users do not have a protected privacy interest in their
personal medical information, the Court intends to find the first element
satisfied.
 
The second and third elements
necessitate factual determinations.  (See Google, supra, 428 F.Supp.3d at
196 [“Whether a plaintiff has a reasonable expectation of privacy in the
circumstances and whether a defendant's conduct constitutes a serious invasion
of privacy are mixed questions of law and fact.”].)[4]
 
The demurrer is overruled.
 
Invasion of
Privacy/Intrusion upon Seclusion
 
An “action for intrusion [upon seclusion] has two elements:
(1) intrusion into a private place, conversation or matter, (2) in a manner
highly offensive to a reasonable person.” 
(Shulman v. Group W Productions, Inc. (1998) 18 Cal.4th
200, 231.)
 
The demurrer is overruled. 
The arguments and analysis for intrusion are the same as the arguments
and analysis for the right-of-privacy cause of action.  (See Motion, pp. 12-14; see also Opposition,
pp. 12-14; Reply, pp. 5-6.)[5]
 
Unjust Enrichment
 
The parties disagree as to
whether unjust enrichment can be a standalone cause of action.  (See Motion, pp. 19-20; see also Opposition,
p. 20; Reply, p. 10.)  
 
The demurrer is sustained.  There is a split of authority (see, e.g., O’Grady
v. Merchant Exchange Productions, Inc. (2019) 41 Cal.App.5th
771, 791 [recognizing the split]), but the Second District Court of Appeal lands
on the side of it not being a cause of action. 
(See Bank of New York Mellon v. Citibank, N.A. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th
935, 955 [stating that “[u]njust enrichment is not a cause of action, . . . or
even a remedy, but rather a general principle, underling various legal
doctrines and remedies”], internal quotation marks omitted; see also Jogani
v. Superior Court (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 901, 911 [same].)  
 
The Court grants Plaintiff leave
to amend to assert unjust enrichment in connection with a recognized cause of
action.
 
UCL
 
“[T]he
UCL permits a cause of action to be brought if a practice violates some other
law.  In effect, the ‘unlawful’ prong of
§ 17200 makes a violation of the underlying law a per se violation of §
17200.”  (Stern,
supra, at ¶ 3:53.)  “Virtually any
law or regulation — federal or state, statutory or common law — can serve as
predicate for a § 17200 ‘unlawful’ violation.  Thus, if a ‘business practice’ violates any
law — literally — it also violates § 17200 and may be redressed under that
section. [Citation.] As the California Supreme Court has said, § 17200 ‘borrows’
violations of other laws and treats them as unlawful practices independently
actionable under § 17200.”  (Id. at ¶
3:56.)
 
“The
second ‘wrong’ proscribed by § 17200 is ‘unfair’ business practices.  Because § 17200's definition of the five
proscribed ‘wrongs’ is set forth in the disjunctive, a business practice can be
‘unfair’ — and violative of § 17200 — even if it is not ‘deceptive’ and even if
it is ‘lawful.’”  (Id. at ¶ 3:112.)  “The ‘unfair’ standard is intentionally
broad, allowing courts maximum discretion to prohibit new schemes to
defraud.”  (Id. at ¶ 3:113.)
 
“The third type of conduct proscribed by § 17200 is
‘fraudulent’ business practices.”  (Id.
at ¶ 3:153.)  “A business practice is ‘fraudulent’
within the meaning of § 17200 if ‘members of the public are likely to be
deceived.’”  (Id. at ¶ 3:154.)  “An advertisement's potentially deceptive
effect is measured by the audience to which it is addressed.  Under the UCL and False Advertising statute,
this will usually be the ‘reasonable person’ standard.”  (Ibid.)
 
Proposition
64 limits “private standing . . . to any ‘person who has suffered injury in
fact and has lost money or property’ as a result of unfair competition
[citations].”  (Kwikset Corp. v.
Superior Court (2011) 51 Cal.4th 310 320-321.)  “The intent of
this change was to confine standing to those actually injured by a defendant's
business practices and to curtail the prior practice of filing suits on behalf
of clients who have not used the defendant's product or service, viewed the
defendant's advertising, or had any other business dealing with the defendant.
. . .”  (Id. at 321, internal quotation
marks omitted.)
 
Standing
 
Defendant contends Plaintiff
lacks standing because personal information does not qualify as lost
property.  (See Motion, pp. 16-17; see
also Reply, pp. 8-9.)
 
Plaintiff claims several courts
have determined that “allegations of improper collection of plaintiff’s
personal information is an economic injury that confers standing.”  (Opposition, p. 17.)
 
“The law is volatile as to
whether loss of private information – e.g., as a result of a data breach –
constitutes loss of money or property.” 
(Stern, supra, at ¶ 7:72.5.) 
“Many cases hold that it does not.” 
(Ibid. [collecting cases]; see also Guzzetta, Cal. Practice Guide:
Privacy Law (The Rutter Group November 2023 Update) ¶ 2:754 [collecting cases
and stating that “courts ‘have consistently rejected’ use of personal
information . . . as equivalent to loss of ‘money or property’”].)  
 
The Court turns to Moore v.
Centrelake Medical Group, Inc. (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 515.  There, the Second District held that the
plaintiffs’ benefit-of-the-bargain theory supported standing (see Moore,
supra, 83 Cal.App.5th at 527-530) but their lost-value theory did
not:
 
Appellants properly pled only that their
PII was stolen and disseminated, and that a market for it existed. They did not
allege they ever attempted or intended to participate in this market, or
otherwise to derive economic value from their PII. Nor did they allege that any
prospective purchaser of their PII might learn that their PII had been stolen
in this data breach and, as a result, refuse to enter into a transaction with
them, or insist on less favorable terms. In the absence of any such allegation,
appellants failed to adequately plead that they lost money or property in the
form of the value of their PII. 
 
(Id. at 538.)
 
Plaintiff and Defendant both
discuss Moore.  Plaintiff argues
that the lost-value portion is dicta and that the Court should follow In re
Facebook, Inc. Internet Tracking Litigation (9th Cir. 2020) 956
F.3d 589 (“Facebook Tracking”) instead. 
(See Opposition, p. 17.) 
Defendant contends Moore is on point.  (See Reply, pp. 8-9.)
 
The Court agrees with Defendant.  Moore is a published Second District
opinion, it postdates Facebook Tracking, and Facebook Tracking
did not involve a UCL claim. (See Facebook Tracking, supra, 956 F.3d at
597.)
 
Moore helps Defendant and
hurts Plaintiff in two ways.  One,
Plaintiff does not allege a benefit-of-the-bargain theory in the
complaint.  Two, her lost-value
allegations are conclusory and do not contain all of the details that Moore
requires.  (See, e.g., Complaint, ¶ 179.)
 
The demurrer is sustained with
leave to amend to add allegations that establish standing in line with Moore.
 
Unlawful and Unfair Prongs
 
Defendant asserts that the
unlawful prong is unsatisfied because Plaintiff fails to allege a violation of
an underlying statute and that the unfair prong is unsatisfied because
Plaintiff fails to allege specific facts that show “immoral, unethical,
oppressive, unscrupulous or substantially injurious” conduct.  (Motion, p. 18; see also Reply, pp. 9-10.)
 
The Court disagrees as to the
unlawful prong.  Any of the other causes
of action in the complaint can be a predicate for Plaintiff’s unlawful UCL
claim.  The viability of the claim
depends on whether she sufficiently alleges at least one of the other causes of
action.  Because she alleges a section
632 claim and privacy claims, the unlawful prong is met.
 
Defendant’s argument regarding
the unfair prong is basically a lack-of-detail argument. Since leave to amend
is granted for the standing issue, Plaintiff should feel free to use that
opportunity to add detail to the unfair UCL claim as well (if she wants to).
 
Restitution and
Disgorgement
 
The complaint seeks restitution
and disgorgement.  (See Complaint, ¶
180.)
 
Defendant claims restitution and
disgorgement are unavailable because “Plaintiff does not allege that
[Defendant] took money from her at all[.]” 
(Motion, p. 19.)
 
Plaintiff contends the complaint
alleges that Defendant’s conduct diminished the value of her private
information.  She contends she is
entitled to restitution as a consequence. 
(See Opposition, pp. 19-20.)
 
The Court agrees with
Defendant.  Plaintiff’s cited case – Brown
v. Google LLC (N.D. Cal., Dec. 12, 2021) No. 20-CV-03664-LHK, 2021 WL
6064009 – does suggest that restitution can be recovered by a plaintiff who
alleges, and is able to quantify, a “diminution” in the value of his or her
personal information.  (Brown,
supra, 2021 WL 6064009, at *18.)  However,
as explained above in the standing section and below in the conversion section,
Plaintiff’s diminished-value allegations are conclusory.  The demurrer is sustained with leave to
amend.  
 
Larceny
 
“[T]he elements required to show”
larceny “are simply that [1] property was stolen or obtained in a manner constituting theft, [2] the
defendant knew the property was so stolen or obtained, and [3] the defendant
received or had possession of the stolen property.”  (Switzer v. Wood (2019) 35 Cal.App.5th
116, 126.)
 
Defendant makes five arguments:
 
* “personal information is not
property” (Motion, p. 15);
 
* Plaintiff fails to allege that
Defendant stole her data (see ibid.; see also Reply, p. 8);
 
* “there are no specific
allegations that [Defendant] had actual knowledge that it was ‘receiving’
stolen property” (Motion, p. 16; see also Reply, p. 8);
 
* the allegedly stolen data is in
Kaiser’s possession, not Defendant’s (see ibid.); and 
 
* Plaintiff fails to plead
damages (see ibid.; see also Reply, pp. 7-8).
 
The first point is addressed in
the conversion section.  In summary,
there is a split of authority.
 
The second point goes to the
consent issue discussed above.
 
In response to the third point,
Plaintiff cites paragraph 185, which states that “Defendant knew that this data
was obtained in a manner constituting theft.” 
(Complaint, ¶ 185.)  The statement
is conclusory, so the Court is inclined to sustain the demurrer with leave to
amend unless, during oral arguments, Plaintiff’s counsel is able to identify
other paragraphs with specific allegations showing knowledge.[6]
 
The fourth point is
unavailing.  The complaint states that
the data is collected by Defendant and transmitted to Defendant’s servers.  (See id. at ¶ 32.)  This is sufficient.
 
The fifth point is correct.  The demurrer is sustained with leave to amend
because Plaintiff’s damages allegations are conclusory (further detail is
provided in the conversion section).
 
Conversion
 
“‘Conversion is the wrongful exercise of dominion over the
property of another.  The elements of
a conversion claim are: (1) the plaintiff's ownership or right to
possession of the property; (2) the defendant’s conversion by a wrongful
act or disposition of property rights; and (3) damages. . . .’ [Citation.]”  (Welco Electronics, Inc. v. Mora
(2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 202, 208.)
 
Defendant contends the conversion
cause of action fails because personal data is not property, and Plaintiff
fails to allege damages.  (See Motion,
pp. 14-15; see also Reply, pp. 7-8.)
 
Plaintiff asserts that “modern
precedents recogniz[e] ‘the property value of personal information.’”  (Opposition, p. 14.)
 
Neither side cites a published
California appellate opinion.
 
Defendant’s cases – federal
decisions – purport to analyze conversion under California law and hold that
“‘personal information’ does not constitute property.”  (Low v. LinkedIn Corp. (N.D. Cal..
2012) 900 F.Supp.2d 1010, 1030 [finding that “personal browsing history and other personally identifiable
information – including full name, email address, mailing address, zip code,
telephone number, and credit card number” did not qualify as property]; see
also In re iPhone Application Litigation (N.D. Cal. 2012) 844 F.Supp.2d
1040, 1075 [finding the same as to “user’s location, zip code, device
identifier, and other data”].)
 
Plaintiff’s cases, while not conversion actions, do identify
a change in the way personal information is viewed.  Opris v. Sincera Reproductive Medicine
(E.D. Pa. May 24, 2022) No. 21-3072, 2022 WL 1639417 is a negligence case under
Pennsylvania law.  It states that there
is a “growing trend . . . to recognize” “the property value of personal
information.”  (Opris, supra, 2022
WL 1639417, at *8.)  Calhoun v. Google
LLC (N.D. Cal. 2021) 526 F.Supp.3d 605 analyzes the UCL.  It holds that loss of personal information
suffices as lost property for standing under the UCL.  (See Calhoun, supra, 526 F.Supp.3d at
636; see also In re Marriott International, Inc., Customer Data Security
Breach Litigation (D. Md. 2020) 440 F.Supp.3d 447, 461 [analyzing Article
III standing]; In re Yahoo! Inc. Customer Data Security Breach Litigation
(N.D. Cal. Aug. 30, 2017) No. 16-MD-02752-LHK, 2017 WL 3727318, at *14 [same].)
 
A significant question for the
Court is how the Second District would rule. 
What is more likely?  That the
Second District would side with the trend or would not?
 
In 2011, the Second District
rejected a UCL claim because the plaintiffs failed to demonstrate that
“collection and recordation of their personal identification information”
“translate[d] into a loss of money or property.”  (Archer v. United Rentals, Inc. (2011)
195 Cal.App.4th 807, 816.)
 
In 2022, the Second District held
that the plaintiffs’ lost-value allegations failed to confer standing.  (See Moore, supra, 83 Cal.App.5th
at 538.)  
 
The Second District decisions,
especially Moore, suggest that personal information can be property if
the allegations contain the requisite details. 
(See ibid.)  Though a UCL claim is
not the same as a conversion claim, the Court finds the decisions persuasive
and analogous since the UCL requires lost property for standing.  Indeed, the Court cannot think of a policy
reason for treating the meaning of property under the UCL differently than the
meaning of property for conversion.  
 
The demurrer is sustained with
leave to amend to allege the Moore details.[7]  
 
Punitive Damages
 
Defendant contends the request
for punitive damages should be stricken because Plaintiff fails to allege
malice, oppression, or fraud with particularity and to identify misconduct by
specific corporate employees.  (See
Motion, p. 20; see also Reply, p. 10.)
 
Plaintiff contends it is
premature to strike the request since “additional facts . . . may be revealed”
through discovery.  (Opposition, p. 20.)
 
The motion to strike is granted
with leave to amend.  
  
 
 


