Confirm/Vacate AwardMark Perry seeks to confirm an arbitration award in his favor issued by arbitrator Hon. Glen M. Reiser (Ret.) on January 8, 2024.  Gibson, Dunn, & Crutcher LLP (“GD”) seeks to vacate this award.  The award at issue requires GD to pay Perry $557,371.55.  It also finds that Perry is a retired—as opposed to a resigned—partner and that Perry is entitled to retirement payments after he stops competing with GD.  During the arbitration proceedings, GD had contended that Perry was a resigned partner that could not receive periodic retirement payments and that even if Perry had retired, he is not entitled to these payments because he competed with GD in the first instance by joining another firm, Weil.   Code Civ. Proc. § 1285 provides in relevant part, “Any party to an arbitration in which an award has been made may petition the court to confirm, correct or vacate the award.”Code Civ. Proc. § 1285.4 states, “A petition under this chapter shall: (a) Set forth the substance of or have attached a copy of the agreement to arbitrate unless the petitioner denies the existence of such an agreement. (b) Set forth the names of the arbitrators. (c) Set forth or have attached a copy of the award and the written opinion of the arbitrators, if any.” Code Civ. Proc. § 1286 states, “If a petition or response under this chapter is duly served and filed, the court shall confirm the award as made, whether rendered in this state or another state, unless in accordance with this chapter it corrects the award and confirms it as corrected, vacates the award or dismisses the proceeding.”“The trial court has but four courses of conduct once a confirmation proceeding is initiated: 1) to confirm, 2) to correct and confirm, 3) to vacate, 4) to dismiss, where a respondent is not a party to the award or is not bound by the arbitration agreement.” (United Bhd. of Carpenters etc., Loc. 642 v. Demello (1972) 22 Cal.App.3d 838, 840.)GD seeks to vacate the subject award because (1) the arbitrator exceeded his powers when, for a summary disposition motion, he legally erred in finding that Perry was a retired  partner entitled to payment when there were, at minimum, material disputes and (2) the arbitrator ignored relevant evidence for the dispositive motion and refused to hold an evidentiary hearing in which GD would attempt to show both (a) evidence of resignation and (b) extrinsic evidence supporting that the firm’s partnership agreement entirely precluded periodic retirement payments if competition ever occurred.  Code Civ. Proc. § 1286.2(a) provides in relevant part that “the court shall vacate the award if the court determines any of the following: . . . (4) The arbitrators exceeded their powers and the award cannot be corrected without affecting the merits of the decision upon the controversy submitted . . . . (5) The rights of the party were substantially prejudiced . . . by the refusal of the arbitrators to hear evidence material to the controversy . . . .”GD’s contentions boil down to the assertion that the arbitrator committed legal error in granting Perry’s summary disposition motion and then refusing an evidentiary hearing.  Notably, however, “errors of law committed by the arbitrator, no matter how gross, are not grounds for challenging the arbitrator's award under California law. [ ] [Moncharsh v. Heily & Blase (1992) 3 C4th 1, 11, 10 CR2d 183, 188; Richey v. AutoNation, Inc. (2015) 60 C4th 909, 916, 182 CR3d 644, 648-649; Baize v. Eastridge Cos. (2006) 142 CA4th 293, 300-302, 47 CR3d 763, 768-769]”.  (Cal. Prac. Guide Alt. Disp. Res. Ch. 5-J.)  Further, there was no requirement to hold an evidentiary hearing when the parties agreed to dispositive motions under the applicable procedural rules.GD contends that “the parties’ agreement expressly circumscribes the arbitrator’s powers: “The arbitrator’s authority and jurisdiction shall be limited to determining the dispute in arbitration in conformity with law, to the same extent as if such dispute were to be determined as to liability and remedy by a court without a jury.” (Ex. 1.1 § 3, italics added.) This language shows that the parties intended that the arbitrator’s legal errors be subject to judicial review.”“[T]o take themselves out of the general rule that the merits of the award are not subject to judicial review, the parties must clearly agree that legal errors are an excess of arbitral authority that is reviewable by the courts. . . . we emphasize that parties seeking to allow judicial review of the merits, and to avoid an additional dispute over the scope of review, would be well advised to provide for that review explicitly and unambiguously.”  (Cable Connection, Inc. v. DIRECTV, Inc. (2008) 44 Cal.4th 1334, 1361.)  GD’s argument lacks merit because the subject agreement does not unambiguously indicate that there will be review of legal errors or the merits of a ruling.  It merely states that the arbitrator is to act in conformity with the law.  This does not indicate anything as to the level of review available. Indeed, this case is similar to Christensen v. Smith (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 931, 936–37 in which the court of appeal found that the following provision did not provide for greater review than ordinary: “ ‘[t]he arbitrator shall be a retired judge or justice . . . who shall render an award in accordance with substantive California Law.’ ”  Similar to here, the court reasoned as follows: “This language provides no hint the parties contemplated appellate review of the merits. . . . We discern no ambiguity in the agreement. The language here . . . simply does not convey that the parties resolved to contravene the ‘general rule’ of arbitral finality (DirecTV, supra, 44 Cal.4th at p. 1361, 82 Cal.Rptr.3d 229, 190 P.3d 586) by subjecting each other to the time and expense of further court proceedings and the arbitrator to appellate policing.”  (Ibid.)  GD also emphasizes the phrase, “to the same extent as if such dispute were to be determined as to liability and remedy by a court without a jury”, but this too merely refers to the scope of power that the arbitrator himself will have.  Again, there is nothing to indicate heightened review.  The Court finds that there is no basis to review for legal errors; that there is nothing to indicate that the arbitrator refused to consider material evidence for the dispositive motions; and that it was not improper to refuse a full evidentiary hearing instead of ruling on a dispositive motion that had been agreed to.  Thus, the Petition to Vacate Award is denied.Further, the Petition to Confirm Award is granted because Perry has attached Reiser’s award, as well as the underlying agreement to arbitrate.  (Petition to Confirm, Exhibits 4b, 8c; Code Civ. Proc. § 1285.4.)   Motions to SealGD seeks to seal (a) its petition to vacate and associated documents and (b) Perry’s petition to confirm.No opposition was filed.  Unless confidentiality is required by law, court records are presumed to be open to public review.  (Cal. Rules of Court 2.550(c); see also Cal. Const., art. I, § 3, subd. (b)(1) [“The people have the right of access to information concerning the conduct of the people’s business”].)  “The court may order that a record be filed under seal only if it expressly finds facts that establish: (1) There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record; (2) The overriding interest supports sealing the record; (3) A substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d); see also NBC Subsidiary (KNBC-TV), Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1178, 1217-1218.)The Court finds that there is an overriding confidentiality interest with respect to GD’s partnership records and other private information at issue that supports a sealing order; if there is not a sealing order, GD’s business may be impacted in detrimental fashion; the proposed sealing is narrowly tailored to the extent it only relates to portions of documents referencing the sensitive content at issue; and no less restrictive means exist to protect the confidentiality interests at issue.Thus, the Motions to Seal are granted. Perry to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 