  Case Number:  23AHCV00433    Hearing Date:   December 20, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANT HONDA’S MOTION TO  BIFURCATE I. INTRODUCTION Plaintiffs William and Joy Wong  (“Plaintiffs”) bring this action against Defendant American Honda Motor Co.,  Inc. (“Honda”) for violations of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act (Civ.  Code, §§ 1790 et seq.) and fraudulent concealment regarding defects in the  infotainment system of a 2018 Honda Odyssey. Plaintiffs filed their complaint on  February 28, 2023. On November 27, 2024, Honda filed a motion to bifurcate the  trial. Plaintiffs filed their opposition on December 9, 2024. Trial is  scheduled for January 28, 2025.   II. LEGAL STANDARD Under CC § 3295, the trial court  must, on application of any defendant, preclude the admission of evidence of  that defendant's profits or financial condition until after the trier of fact  returns a verdict for plaintiff awarding actual damages and finds that a  defendant is guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud in accordance with CC §  3294. See CC § 3295(d). The trial court may, in its discretion, order a  defendant to produce evidence of his or her financial condition following a  determination of the defendant's liability for punitive damages, even though  the plaintiff has not previously (1) conducted pretrial discovery of  defendant's financial records, (2) subpoenaed documents or witnesses to be  available at trial for the purpose of establishing defendant's financial  condition, or (3) formally moved to bifurcate the issues of liability and award.  See CC § 3295(c); See also Mike Davidov Co. v Issod (2000) 78  Cal.App.4th 597, 609. There is nothing prejudicial or unfair about using such a  process to try the issue of the amount of punitive damages; if anything, this  method serves the purpose behind CC § 3295(d), which is to protect against  premature disclosure of the defendant's financial condition. See Mike  Davidov Co., supra, 78 Cal.App.4th at 609.   III. DISCUSSION Honda argues that bifurcation is  mandatory under Civil Code section 3295(d), which precludes the admission of  evidence relating to a defendant's financial condition until after the trier of  fact has determined liability and whether the defendant is guilty of malice,  oppression, or fraud. Honda asserts that premature disclosure of its financial  condition would unfairly prejudice the jury during the liability phase.  (Motion, pp. 3-4). Honda relies on Holdgrafer v.  Unocal Corp. (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 907, 919, which clarifies that  bifurcation serves to separate the issues of liability and compensatory damages  from punitive damages. Honda further cites Las Palmas Assoc. v. Las Palmas  Ctr. Assoc. (1991) 235 Cal.App.3d 1220, 1242, to emphasize that evidence of  wealth can improperly influence the jury, as it carries inherent prejudicial  risks. Honda contends that bifurcation is both procedurally proper and  necessary to ensure a fair trial. (Motion, p.3) Honda concludes that  bifurcation is essential to ensure compliance with section 3295(d). In opposition, Plaintiffs argue  that bifurcation will unnecessarily prolong trial and result in duplicative  presentations of evidence. Plaintiffs cite Santana v. FCA US, LLC (2020)  56 Cal.App.5th 334, 349, to argue that evidence supporting liability, including  Honda’s conduct and awareness of defects, overlaps with the evidence required  to determine punitive damages. Plaintiffs contend that bifurcation would  require the same witnesses and exhibits to be presented twice, which undermines  judicial efficiency. (Opposition, pp. 1-3).           Plaintiffs emphasize that they must introduce evidence of  Honda’s conduct in the liability phase to meet the “clear and convincing”  standard for malice, oppression, or fraud under Civil Code section 3294(c)(1).  (Opposition, p. 4). Plaintiffs assert that prohibiting such evidence would  prejudice their ability to present a full case on liability.          The  Court finds that Civil Code section 3295(d) mandates bifurcation of punitive  damages upon Honda’s request. Section 3295(d) explicitly precludes the  admission of evidence regarding a defendant’s financial condition until the  trier of fact determines liability and finds that the defendant acted with  malice, oppression, or fraud. Honda has demonstrated its statutory right to  bifurcation.  Furthermore, Plaintiff’s  concerns expressed in the paragraph above are unfounded.  Under CACI 3941, et seq., the jury is called upon to  determine whether Honda engaged in conduct with malice, oppression or fraud  during the first phase of a bifurcated trial.  The Court further finds that  Plaintiffs’ arguments regarding judicial inefficiency and overlapping evidence  do not overcome the clear legislative intent of section 3295(d). While some  overlap of evidence may occur, this does not negate the statute’s purpose,  which is to protect defendants from the prejudicial impact of premature  disclosure of their financial condition. The Court agrees with Honda that such  evidence could improperly influence the jury’s assessment of liability and  compensatory damages, warranting bifurcation to ensure a fair and impartial  trial. Based on the foregoing, the Court  GRANTS Honda’s motion to bifurcate.   IV. CONCLUSION AND ORDER The Court GRANTS Honda’s motion to  bifurcate. Honda is ordered to give notice.  Dated: December 20, 2024                                                                                  JARED D. MOSES JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT                                                                                 