  Case Number:  23VECV02408    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  W ALIREZA MIRSHOJAE, et al. v. SHAHRAREH
BALOUCHGHARAIE,, et al.
 
defendant’s demurrer with motion to strike the
complaint 
 
Date
of Hearing:        June 28, 2024                                     Trial Date:       None Set  
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        23VECV02408
 
Moving Party:            Defendants Shahrareh Balouchgharaie
and Jim Fahar dba Universal Financial Services 
Responding Party:     Plaintiffs Alireza Mirshojae and Venus
Mohammad 
Meet and Confer:      Yes. (Kade Decl. ¶3-5.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
June 1, 2023, Plaintiffs Alireza Mirshojae and Venus Mohammad filed a complaint
against Shahrareh Balouchgharaie (“Gharaie”) and Jim Fahar dba Universal
Financial Services for breach of fiduciary duty, negligence, negligent
misrepresentation, violation of Business and Professions Code §17200, and
breach of contract. Plaintiffs allege Plaintiffs and Defendants Universal and
Gharaie entered into a Buyer Representation Agreement in December 2021.
However, at the time of executing the agreement, neither Fahar nor Universal
nor Gharaie disclosed to Plaintiffs that Universal was a dba of Defendant Fahar
and Defendant Fahar maintained an exclusive ownership interest over Universal.
Separately, Plaintiffs retained Defendant Fahar to function as Plaintiffs
mortgage loan broker/originator, but unbeknownst to Plaintiffs, Defendant Fahar
was functioning both as Plaintiffs’ loan broker and real estate broker through
Universal. Plaintiffs entered into a purchase and sale agreement for a real
property located in Calabasas and based on several representations by Defendant
Fahar and Gharaie, Plaintiffs removed all contingencies except for the loan
contingency. However, based on assurances and guarantees by Defendant Fahar
based on financing being secured, Plaintiff alleges they removed the loan
contingency as well. Plaintiffs further allege Defendant failed to obtain
financing and failed to properly advise Plaintiffs of the legal consequences of
removing the contingencies and on February 17, 2022, the seller of the property
elected to cancel the purchase and sale agreement. 
 
[Tentative]
Ruling
 
Defendants’ Demurrer to the Complaint is OVERRULED;
Defendants’ Motion to Strike is DENIED, in part. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendants Shahrareh
Balouchgharaie and Jim Fahar dba Universal Financial Services demur to the
first, fourth, and fifth causes of action on the grounds Plaintiff fails to
state facts sufficient to constitute a claim for breach of fiduciary duty,
violation of Business Code and Professions section 17200 and breach of
contract.[1]
Defendants further move to strike portions of the complaint. 
 
First Cause of
Action
 
The elements for a
breach of fiduciary duty cause of action are “the existence of a fiduciary
relationship, its breach, and damage proximately caused by that breach.” (Thomson
v. Canyon (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 594, 604.)  
 
Defendants demur to
the first cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty on the grounds
Plaintiffs cannot seek attorney fees in a breach of fiduciary duty claim nor
has Plaintiffs alleged the terms of the contract allowing for attorney fees,
the conduct alleged is at most negligent, and has failed to allege whether the
contract was written or oral. 
 
In opposition,
Plaintiffs first argue the demurrer to the first cause of action must be
overruled because Defendants are engaging in a line-item veto by focusing
exclusively on whether Plaintiff has properly alleged a right to recover
attorneys fees. The court finds the argument over attorney fees is better
addressed in the motion to strike. However, the court will consider the
demurrer to the entire claim as Defendants did briefly address whether the
cause of action sufficiently alleges intentional conduct (there is no
requirement Plaintiffs allege a breach of contract for a breach of fiduciary
duty claim). Here, Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged Defendants breached
their fiduciary duty by 1) failing to advise or counsel Plaintiff on the
implications of removing all contingencies; 2) making false representations to
Plaintiffs regarding having financing secured; 3) failing to secure such
financing despite previous guarantees that such financing was secured; 4)
failing to disclose that Defendant Fahar functioned as Defendant Ghareie’s
supervising real estate broker in relation to the purchase and sale transaction
of the Subject Property.
 
Accordingly, the
demurrer to the first cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Fourth Cause of
Action
 
To successfully
plead a UCL claim for unfair business practices, a plaintiff must allege facts
justifying relief in the form of protecting the public from unfair business
practices or deceptive advertising. (Day v. AT&T Corp. (1998) 63
Cal.App.4th 325, 331-332.) A plaintiff must plead and prove that the defendant
engaged in a business practice that was either unlawful (i.e., is forbidden by
law) or unfair (i.e., harm to victim outweighs any benefit) or fraudulent
(i.e., is likely to deceive members of the public).  (Albillo v.
Intermodal Container Services, Inc. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 190, 206.) 
 
Defendants demur to
the fourth cause of action for violation of Business and Professions code
section 17200 on the grounds Plaintiffs cannot recover compensatory damages
outside of the equitable remedies allowed by Business and Professions Code
section 17200. 
 
Plaintiffs again
argue that such an argument is improper on demurrer as Defendants cannot
demurrer to a portion of a cause of action. The court agrees such argument is
suited for a motion to strike and will address the arguments there. 
 
The demurrer is
OVERRULED. 
 
Fifth Cause of
Action
 
“The standard
elements of a claim for breach of contract are: ‘(1) the contract, (2)
plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach,
and (4) damage to plaintiff therefrom.’” (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New
York Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.) 
 
Defendants demur to
the fifth cause of action for breach of contract on the grounds Plaintiffs fail
to state any dates when any alleged contract was formed, whether it was oral, written
or partly oral and partly written, and fail to either attach a copy of any
purported written contract including the “Representation Agreement” or state
its terms verbatim in haec verba, and fail to state any dates when any contract
was purportedly breached.
 
The court
disagrees. The complaint alleges the parties entered the Representation
Agreement and a separate written and oral agreement to obtain financing on
December 11, 2021. The allegations also allege the legal effect of the
contracts, i.e., Defendants were to assist with financing (Compl. ¶¶74, 75.)
Plaintiffs allege Defendants breached these terms when failing to secure
financing. (Compl. ¶76.) This is sufficient for the purposes of a demurrer. 
 
Accordingly, the
demurrer to the fifth cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Motion to Strike[2] 
 
Defendants move to
strike Plaintiffs’ allegations regarding attorney fees and prayer for damages
other than equitable damages in the Section 17200 cause of action. 
 
First, Defendants
move to strike Plaintiffs’ allegations in paragraphs 68, 69, 70 and 71 on the
grounds Business and Professions Code section 17200 only authorize equitable
remedies and Plaintiffs improperly seek punitive damages. The court strikes
paragraph 71. Punitive damages are not allowed under Section 17200. (See Ghazarian
v. Magellan Health, Inc. (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 171, 195.) The court further
strikes “in an amount to be proven at the time of trial, but” (Compl. ¶69.)
While a Plaintiff cannot recover compensatory damages in a UCL claim, Plaintiff
may allege the harm incurred by Defendants’ acts. 
 
Defendants also
move to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for attorney fees. However, the court finds
Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged the basis for recovery of attorney fees –
the attorney fees provision in the Representation Agreement. Accordingly, the
motion to strike attorney fees is DENIED. 


