  Case Number:  23VECV00635    Hearing Date:   December 24, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV00635 SAMSON PRIMM vs STATE FARM[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant State Farm General Insurance Company’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. Defendant State Farm General Insurance Company’s Motion for Summary Adjudication is MOOT.Plaintiff has 10 days to file any objections to the Proposed Judgment. PROPOSED JUDGMENT:Judgment is in favor of defendant and against plaintiff.  Plaintiff is to take nothing on his First Amended Complaint.  Costs to defendant per Memorandum of Costs.  Attorney fees, if allowed by statute or contract, by noticed motion.IntroductionDefendant State Farm General Insurance Company (Defendant) moved for summary judgment (MSJ) against Plaintiff Samson Primm’s (Plaintiff) Second Amended Complaint (SAC). Alternatively, Defendant moved for summary adjudication (MSA) which asserted five issues to be adjudicated.  The five issues are: 1) the first and second causes of action (COA) are barred by the one-year contractual limitations period in State Farm's Suit Against Us provision; 2) as to the first and second COAs, Defendant  had no obligation to pay benefits under the policy; 3) as to the second COA Defendant’s conduct was reasonable; 4) as to the second COA, there existed a genuine dispute; and 5) as to the request for punitive damages, there is no triable issue of fact as to malice, oppression, or fraud.DiscussionDefendant argued that there is no triable issue of fact as to the affirmative defense of the one-year contractual limitations period.  Defendant provided that the Personal Articles Policy (PAP) included a one-year time limit for filing an action that would start from the occurrence causing loss or damage.  (Defendant’s Separate Statement of Facts (DSSF) 1, 30, and 38.)  Defendant denied Plaintiff’s claim on October 6, 2020, and notified Plaintiff of the one-year contractual limitations period.  (DSSF 29-30.)  Defendant further provided facts to show that Plaintiff’s Counsel disagreed with Defendant’s decision and requested identification of the discrepancies and inconsistencies.  (DSSF 31.)  Defendant’s facts show that Defendant responded to Plaintiff Counsel’s request and advised that the matter remained denied and closed.  (DSSF 32-34.)  Plaintiff filed the instant action on February 9, 2023.  (DSSF 36.)  The evidence presented by Defendant shows that there is no triable issue of fact as to the contractual limitations period because the February 9, 2023, filing of the instant action was well beyond the October 6, 2020, accrual date.  Defendant met their initial burden on the MSJ to show that there is no triable issue of fact as to the affirmative defense.  The burden shifted to Plaintiff.  Plaintiff filed a late opposition which was considered by the court.  Plaintiff did not address the statute of limitations issue.The evidence submitted was:On October 9, 2019, Primm alleges he boarded an Alaska Airlines flight from Los Angeles to Washington and his jewelry was stolen from his checked luggage; Primm reported a claim to State Farm that day. (UMF 2-3.)October 6, 2020: State Farm advised Primm that it had "completed [its] investigation" and was "denying coverage". State (UMF 29.)October 6, 2020: State Farm's denial letter advised Primm of the one-year contractual limitations period and that the "one-year period referred to begins to run as of the date of this letter [October 6, 2020]." (UMF 30.) • Primm disagreed with State Farm's decision. (UMF 31.)December 2, 2020: State Farm, though its counsel, further advised Primm regarding the basis for State Farm's decision and advised Primm that "the matter remains denied and closed." (UMF 32-34.)October 6, 2021: the one-year contractual limitations expired.December 2, 2021: the one-year contractual limitations expired (based on the last denial letter).On February 9, 2023, Primm filed a complaint against State Farm. (UMF 36.) Primm's Complaint which (alleging two causes of action for breach of contract and bad faith) was filed on February 9, 2023.Plaintiff’s points and authorities and Plaintiff’s declaration failed to present any legal argument or facts to dispute Defendant’s argument as to the one-year contractual limitations period.  There was no response to the Separate Statement.  Because Plaintiff’s opposition failed to address the contractual limitations period, Plaintiff failed to meet his burden to show that a triable issue of fact exists as to the contractual limitation period.  Because Plaintiff failed to show a triable issue of act as to the contractual limitations period argument, the MSJ is persuasive. The Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.Due to the granting of the MSJ, the Motion for Summary Adjudication is MOOT.IT IS SO ORDERED, TO GIVE NOTICE.