 Case Number:  22AHCV00270    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  X PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR PRELIMINARY INJUNCTIONPlaintiff moves for an injunction directing the Hamza Revocable Living Trust and Karim Hamza as Trustee of the trust, in the event of a sale of the real property located at 868 Mount Washington Drive, Los Angeles, California 90065, to hold the portion of the sale proceeds sufficient to satisfy the Judgment in trust or escrow until Plaintiff (1) has an opportunity to record an Amended Abstract of Judgment in connection with the Trust’s interest in the Property pursuant to the pending Motion to Amend Judgment, and (2) secures orders from the Probate Court requiring the Trust to satisfy the Judgment, or until there is otherwise a judicial determination that the Property is not subject to collection in satisfaction of the Judgment.  In the alternative, Plaintiff asks that this Court appoint a Receiver.Tentative RulingPlaintiff’s motion for a preliminary injunction is DENIED. Legal AnalysisTo obtain injunctive relief, the party seeking relief must prove: (1) a wrongful act that ought to be enjoined; and (2) a basis for equitable relief, which is typically the threat of irreparable harm or that the fact that a remedy at law is inadequate.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 526a; San Diego Unif. Port Dist. v. Gallagher (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 501, 503.)On July 31, 2024, the Court entered a judgment for Plaintiff against Defendant Karim Hamza in the amount of $341,461.38.  (Motion, Sheik Decl., ¶ 6.)  Plaintiff subsequently filed an Abstract of Judgment lien on Hamza’s real property located at 868 Mount Washington Drive, Los Angeles, California 90065 (“Property”).  On August 6, 2024, Plaintiff obtained an Abstract of Judgment on Hamza and the Property.  (Motion, Sheik Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. 3).  Plaintiff recorded the Abstract of Judgment on August 13, 2024.  (Motion, Sheik Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. 4).  Subsequent title searches were conducted to confirm the Abstract of Judgment lien is in fact attached to the Property; however, while the lien appears in title searches using Hamza’s name, the lien does not appear in title searches of the Property itself.  (Motion, Sheik Decl., ¶ 6.)Plaintiff claims the Property was recently listed for sale, and an asset search of Hamza’s assets revealed the Property as his sole material asset.  (Motion for Injunction, Cameli Decl., ¶ 2-3; Motion for Injunction, Sheik Decl., ¶ 9.)  Plaintiff indicates his concern that “every passing day provides Hamza with further opportunity to evade the Judgment with a sale of the property, so Plaintiff needs injunctive relief immediately, not days or weeks from now.”  (Motion for Injunction, p. 9.)  Plaintiff explains that Hamza refuses to pay the Judgment, appears to be placing his only known material asset (the Property) beyond the reach of Plaintiff, and a money judgment would not assist Plaintiff in enforcing his rights as Judgment Creditor. In opposition, Defendants argue Plaintiff’s claims of imminent harm regarding the sale of the property and potential dissipation of proceeds are unsubstantiated.  They note that Plaintiff has not provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate the likelihood of success in amending the judgment or obtaining an order from the Probate Court, and that Plaintiff’s claims are predominantly based on assumptions, which do not meet the threshold required for granting an injunction.  Additionally, Defendants argue Plaintiff has not adequately explained why injunctive relief is the only available remedy to prevent the unlikely dissipation of proceeds, and that Plaintiff has already pursued several other methods which have yet to be heard.  Finally, Defendants argue Plaintiff downplays the harm that an injunction would impose on Defendant while overstating the potential harm to himself if an injunction is not granted.Plaintiff’s motion clarifies he does not seek an injunction preventing or forbidding the sale of the Property.  (Motion for Injunction, p. 6.)  Rather, he seeks a much narrower injunction that requires limited action only in the event the property is sold.  That is, if the Property is sold, the Judgment must be protected out of the proceeds.  (Motion for Injunction, p. 11.)  Therefore, the injunctive relief Plaintiff seeks is actually a mandatory injunction as it aims to change the status quo by—in the event of a sale—requiring Defendant to use the proceeds from the sale of the Property to satisfy the Judgment.  Plaintiff’s reply maintains the same argument—that “the injunction’s scope is narrowly tailored to prevent only the dissipation of sale proceeds sufficient to satisfy the Judgment.”  (Reply, p. 6.) A mandatory injunction will be granted only in extreme cases when the right to such an injunction is clearly established.  (Slatkin v. White (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 963, 972.)  Because mandatory preliminary injunctions alter the status quo and are difficult to supervise and enforce, a very strong showing is required (e.g., substantial irreparable injury, a clear violation of law, a denial of constitutional rights), including substantiation that the moving party is likely to prevail in the action and that a weighing of the relative hardship to the parties if an injunction is or is not issued clearly favors the moving party.  (See City of Corona v AMG Outdoor Adver., Inc. (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 291, 299 [mandatory injunctions pending trial should be granted only in extreme cases when right to injunction is clearly established].)Here, a mandatory injunction is not warranted.  Because the requested injunction is mandatory, the balance of hardships tips towards Defendant Hamza.  Plaintiff does not provide sufficient evidence that pecuniary relief would be inadequate in this case.  The request for an order to compel Defendant Hamza to protect the proceeds from the potential sale of the Property is denied.  Injunctive relief is typically appropriate only where money damages would be insufficient—here, the relief is essentially entirely monetary. Further, a preliminary injunction “is proper only if there is a substantial basis to suppose that the defendant, if not restrained, will actually engage in the conduct sought to be enjoined.”  (Epstein v. Superior Ct. (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 1405, 1410, emphasis in original.)  To obtain a preliminary injunction, a moving party must show that it is likely to succeed on the merits of its claims, that it will suffer irreparable harm if alleged conduct is not enjoined, and that its entitlement to an injunction outweighs any harm to the opposing parties.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 526(a); Shoemaker v. County of Los Angeles (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 618, 624; Robbins v. Superior Court (1985) 38 Cal.3d 199, 206.) Here, assuming arguendo that Plaintiff seeks a preliminary injunction enjoining Defendant from selling the Property altogether, Plaintiff has not sufficiently demonstrated he will suffer irreparable harm if this Court does not grant that preliminary injunction.  Plaintiff argues he will suffer irreparable harm if the Property is sold, but monetary loss does not constitute irreparable harm unless the plaintiff also shows the defendant is insolvent or unable to pay damages.  (Friedman v. Friedman (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 876, 890.)  Other than Plaintiff’s belief, as stated in his declaration, Plaintiff has not demonstrated Defendant is insolvent or unable to pay damages.  Injunctive relief is, therefore, not justified.ConclusionPlaintiff’s motion for a preliminary injunction is denied.DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO VACATE ARBITRATION AWARDDefendants seek to have the arbitration award, ruled in favor of Plaintiff, vacated.On August 30, 2022, Plaintiff Cameli filed an arbitration claim with the AAA, and the parties proceeded to a merits hearing in March 2024.  The arbitrator, Leslie Werlin, ruled in favor of Plaintiff, granting him various monetary awards.  Defendants seek to have the arbitration award vacated.Tentative RulingThe Motion to Vacate the Arbitration Award is DENIED.Defendant’s Motion is UntimelyThe parties to an arbitration may petition the court to confirm, correct, or vacate the award.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1285; Elden v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 1497, 1511.)  Petitions to confirm arbitration awards are governed by different deadlines than petitions to vacate an award.  “A petition to confirm an award shall be served and filed not later than four years after the date of service of a signed copy of the award on the petitioner.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1288.)  By contrast, a party seeking to correct or vacate an award must do so “not later than 100 days after the date of the service of a signed copy of the award on the petitioner.”  (Ibid.; Elden, supra, at p. 1511.)  A response to a petition to confirm an award requesting that the award be vacated or corrected likewise must “be served and filed not later than 100 days after the date of service of a signed copy of the award.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1288.2.)However, sometimes a party seeking to vacate an award has fewer than 100 days to seek vacation of an award—because any response to a petition to confirm must be served “within 10 days after service of the petition,” a time period that may be extended only by agreement or by order of the court upon a showing of “good cause.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1290.6.)  Therefore, when a party files a petition to confirm an award within 100 days of the service of the award, any response that seeks vacation of the award must be filed and served within the 10 days specified in section 1290.6.  (Elden, supra, 53 Cal.App.4th at p. 1511; see also Oaktree Capital Management, L.P. v. Bernard (2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 60, 66 [where party seeks confirmation of award, response governed by section 1290.6, not section 1288.2]; Lovret v. Seyfarth (1972) 22 Cal.App.3d 841, 856 [same].)  In other words, a party (such as Defendants here) seeking to vacate an award must do so within 100 days (Code Civ. Proc., § 1288), but if the opposing party requests confirmation of the award before 100 days have passed, any response seeking to vacate the award must be filed within 10 days of the date the petition to confirm is served (Code Civ. Proc., § 1290.6).  (Elden, supra, at p. 1511.)If a party wishing to have an award vacated or corrected does not act within 100 days of service of the award (either by filing a petition to vacate or filing a response to a petition to confirm), the award must be treated as final, and the party is precluded from attacking it.  (Eternity Investments, Inc. v. Brown (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 739, 745.) Here, the underlying arbitration award is dated June 13, 2024, and was served on the parties on June 14, 2024.  (Motion, p. 3.)  On June 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed his Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award.  (Alfera Decl., ¶ 2.)  Plaintiff’s counsel served the Petition to Confirm on Defendants’ counsel via email.  (Alfera Decl., ¶ 3, Exh. A.)  Thus, a response by Defendants—including a motion to vacate the arbitration award—was due on or before July 5, 2024.  It appears the motion is untimely.Defendant Has Not Established a Viable Legal Basis to Set Aside the Arbitration AwardPer Code of Civil Procedure section 1285, any party to an arbitration in which an award has been made may petition the court to confirm, correct, or vacate the award. The petition shall set forth the substance of or have attached a copy of the agreement to arbitrate, set forth the names of the arbitrators, and attach a copy of the arbitration award. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.4.) The petition must also set forth the grounds upon which relief requested is based. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.8.)Section 1286.2 sets forth all the reasons under which a court shall vacate an arbitration award. An arbitration award may be corrected by the court where: (a) there was an evident miscalculation of figures or an evident mistake in the description of any person referred to in the award; (b) the arbitrators exceeded their powers but the award may be corrected without affecting the merits of the controversy submitted; or (c) the award is imperfect in a matter of form, not affecting the merits of the controversy. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1286.6.)Defendants argue the damage award violates public policy and must be vacated in two respects. First, Defendants assert notice is required by American Arbitration Association (“AAA”) rules and argue the Arbitrator exceeded her authority in awarding Plaintiff punitive damages without providing Defendants with prior notice.  Second, Defendants argue that the punitive damage award violates public policy because there was no evidence of its financial condition.  Citing the California Supreme Court decision in Adams v. Murakami (1991) 54 Cal.3d 105, 112, a case not involving arbitration, Defendants reason that the absence of evidence as to its financial condition requires the punitive damage award be set aside. Notice of Punitive DamagesParagraph 14 of FAKK’s Operating Agreement (Motion, Exh. A) is the arbitration clause, which states that arbitration will be settled pursuant to the “commercial arbitration rules then in effect of the American Arbitration Association[.]”  Defendants argue the Arbitrator exceeded her authority in awarding Plaintiff punitive damages without providing the Defendants with prior notice, asserting that notice is required by AAA Rule 6.To support their contention, Defendants cite to Emerald Aero, LLC v. Kaplan (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 1125.  In Emerald Aero, the Court held as follows:Plaintiffs do not dispute they were required to provide reasonable notice of their new punitive damages claim.  But they say they did so by e-mailing Kaplan a copy of their arbitration brief on the day before the arbitration hearing.  The trial court accepted this argument.  We do not.  In viewing the entirety of the record, this e-mail did not satisfy the required notice under the AAA rules or under fundamental fairness principles.  Reasonably understood, the notice required under AAA rule 6 means providing the opposing party with the time and opportunity to review and understand the contents of the notice, and the opportunity to respond to the notice.  Under the circumstances here, attaching a brief to an e-mail less than 24 hours before the merits hearing did not constitute notice calculated to apprise the opposing party of a new and substantially increased monetary claim, nor did it provide the opposing party with a fair opportunity to assert a challenge to the new punitive damage claim.  Plaintiffs did not provide any information in the cover e-mail regarding the substantially increased value of the claim (more than 30 times the initial Arbitration Claim amount and $20 million more than the amount claimed in the complaint), nor did the brief clearly highlight this information.[…]Plaintiffs argue the late notice caused no prejudice because the record shows Kaplan had already decided not to appear at the hearing.  However, the record also supports that if Kaplan had been provided reasonable prior notice that plaintiffs were seeking $30 million in punitive damages, he would have likely reconsidered this decision by retaining a new attorney or appearing at the hearing to at least notify the Arbitrator that punitive damages had never before been part of plaintiffs’ claim.  On the record before us, plaintiffs’ counsel took unfair advantage of the situation by making a last-minute demand for more than $30 million in punitive damages.  Given the lack of fair notice, the Arbitrator’s decision to accept this claimed amount fell outside the Arbitrator’s authority.(Id., at pp. 1141-1142, emphasis added.)  In Emerald Aero, the appellate court ruled that the arbitrator allowing an addition of a last-minute substantial punitive damages claim (less than 24 hours before the arbitration hearing) violated the nondiscretionary arbitration rule, AAA Rule 6, which requires a party to specify in his initial filing “the relief sought and the amount involved,” and requires the parties to provide written notice of any changes to this claim information.  The court found that the arbitrator’s decision to accept this claimed amount exceeded the arbitrator’s authority. In opposition, Plaintiff maintains that he gave ample notice of punitive damages.  In particular, the Judgment Creditor’s First Amended Complaint dated October 9, 2023 specifically requested punitive damages in both the body of the FAC and the Prayer for Relief.  (Alfera Decl., ¶ 6, Exh. B [redlined First Amended Complaint, filed with the Arbitrator pursuant to motion for leave to amend on October 9, 2023].)  Further, Plaintiff contends that in his opening brief filed with the Arbitrator prior to the Merits Hearing, Plaintiff noted that he “asserts a prayer for punitive damages in connection with the foregoing wrongdoing by Respondents” and that Respondents’/Defendants’ wrongdoing “easily meets the standard for “oppression, fraud, or malice,” and Claimant will present ‘clear and convincing’ evidence of the same.  (Cal. Civ. Code, § 3294.)”  (Alfera Decl. ¶ 7, Exh. C [Judgment Creditor’s (Claimant’s) Opening Brief], p. 11.)  Finally, Plaintiff argued for punitive damages a third time in his closing brief.  (Alfera Decl. ¶ 8, Exh. D [Judgment Creditor’s (Claimant’s) Closing Brief], at p. 18 [citing Civil Code section 3294 and arguing why punitive damages are appropriate].)In reply, Defendants argue Plaintiff did not properly submit the issue of punitive damages for the Arbitrator’s consideration, as Plaintiff only briefly mentioned it without providing the necessary evidence.The record shows that Plaintiff’s counsel wrote in his opening statement that “Claimant asserts a prayer for punitive damages in connection with the foregoing wrongdoing by Respondents.  Respondents shut Claimant out of the company, gaslit him about an assault on his personal safety and autonomy by a business partner, and attempted to ruin his career as a diver and dive instructor by defaming him.  This easily meets the standard for “oppression, fraud, or malice,” and Claimant will present “clear and convincing” evidence of the same.  (Cal. Civ. Code, § 3294.)”  (Alfera Decl., Exh. C, p. 11.)  Similarly, the record shows Plaintiff’s closing statement argues Plaintiff was “entitled to a substantial award of punitive damages for Defendants’ fraudulent, oppressive, and malicious conduct” and requested that the Arbitrator award “punitive damages in an amount equal to the amount awarded for compensatory damages.”  (Alfera Decl., Exh. D, p. 18.)Defendants’ reply argues “Plaintiff’s counsel only briefly referenced Defendant Hamza’s alleged malicious conduct without any further elaboration” and “[f]leeting remarks during opening statements do not constitute the clear and convincing evidence required to support punitive damages.”  The reply continues, “[t]here was not the necessary notice required for the arbitrator to determine the issue.  Therefore, this matter transcends a simple claim of the arbitrator’s factual or legal error; it pertains to the arbitrator exceeding their authority[.]”  Defendants’ arguments fail, as the record shows Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages in the opening brief before the merits hearing, and Defendants’ motion and reply even concede that Plaintiff’s counsel referenced Hamza’s alleged malicious conduct.  Thus, Defendants’ lack of fair notice argument fails.Additionally, the fundamental fairness principles discussed in Emerald Aero are not implicated here.  (Emerald Aero, supra, 9 Cal.App.5th at p. 1143.)  The claimants in Emerald Aero initially sought $1 million in damages in their arbitration claim summary (id., at p. 1132), but increased their demand on the literal eve of the hearing (at 4:38 p.m.) to seek more than $10.2 million in compensatory and punitive damages of “a ‘multiplier of three (3x) the actual damages’ “ (id., at p. 1135).  The arbitrator ultimately awarded the claimants more than $30 million in damages.  (Id., at p. 1135.)  The trial court confirmed this award, finding that the notice served the afternoon before the hearing was sufficient.  (Id., at p. 1137.)  Here, Plaintiff did not drastically increase the amount of a claim the day before the arbitration hearing.  Plaintiff’s first amended complaint, which was deemed filed on October 9, 2023 after leave to amend was provided, specifically requested punitive and exemplary damages in the prayer for relief.  (Alfera Decl., Exh. B., pp. 15, 17.)  Further, the punitive damages awards against Hamza of $7,000 in punitive damages for civil assault and $50,000 in defamation are not of the magnitude that “warrant[ed] particular attention” in Emerald Aero.  (Emerald Aero, supra, at p. 1144.)Defendants’ Financial ConditionDefendants argue the Arbitrator’s decision to grant Cameli punitive damages violates public policy.  Defendants explain the purpose of punitive damages is to protect the public by punishing and deterring wrongdoing, and that in assessing punitive damages, the factfinder must examine the defendant’s financial status.  By failing to consider the Defendants’ financial situation, Defendants argue, the Arbitrator’s award of punitive damages is in violation of public policy principles.  Defendants cite the California Supreme Court decision in Adams v. Murakami (1991) 54 Cal.3d 105, 112, a case not involving arbitration, reasoning that the absence of evidence as to its financial condition requires the punitive damage award be set aside.  (Adams, supra, 54 Cal.3d at pp. 108-109 [“Is evidence of a defendant’s financial condition a prerequisite to an award of punitive damages? […] We answer . . . in the affirmative.”]) Defendant is correct that under exceptional circumstances an arbitration award which violates an explicit legislative expression of public policy may be set aside by a court.  (Board of Education v. Round Valley Teachers Assn. (1996) 13 Cal.4th 269, 276-277.)  There exist cases where there were explicit statutory or constitutional impediments to enforcing the arbitrators award.  (Ibid.; City of Palo Alto v. Service Employees Internat. Union (1999) 77 Cal.App.4th 327, 338-340 [constitutional judicial power]; Alternative Systems, Inc. v. Carey (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1034,1044 [Bus. & Prof. Code, § 6200]; Jordan v. Department of Motor Vehicles (2002)100 Cal.App.4th 431, 442-456 [Cal. Const, art. XVI, § 6].)  Here, however, no such explicit statutory or constitutional bar is present.  In fact, the relevant statutory provision, Civil Code section 3294, permits the imposition of punitive damages when malice is present. Violation of Hamza’s Statutory Rights, Gross Disregard of the Law, and Compensatory DamagesDefendants’ motion further argues the punitive damages award violates Hamza’s statutory rights and is in gross disregard of the law.  Since Defendants are challenging the Arbitrator’s factual determination on whether Plaintiff clearly and convincingly proved that Hamza was guilty of malice, fraud, or oppression, the challenge fails.  A court may not review the sufficiency of the evidence supporting an arbitrator’s award.  (Moncharsh v. Heily & Blase (1992) 3 Cal.4th 1, 11.)  Defendants also challenge the Arbitrator’s factual determination on whether Plaintiff proved that he suffered financial losses due to being excluded from FAKK and losing access to students and the company storefront, and whether Plaintiff met the burden of proof to receive compensatory damages.  These challenges fail for the same reason—this Court may not review the sufficiency of the evidence supporting the Arbitrator’s award.“Advanced Fund Loan” and Capital ContributionThe motion argues that the Arbitrator exceeded her authority by awarding Plaintiff the right to repayment of his “Advanced Fund Loan” and capital contribution, which were not in accordance with FAKK’s Operating Agreement.  According to Defendants, the Operating Agreement requires all business loans to be made in writing and receive unanimous approval from FAKK’s members, which did not occur with Plaintiff’s contribution.  Additionally, the Operating Agreement holds that members have no right to withdraw or reduce their capital contributions until the company has been terminated, yet the Arbitrator awarded Cameli the right to repayment of his capital contribution.  Defendants contend that by ignoring the clear terms of the Operating Agreement, the Arbitrator effectively remade the agreement, which is grounds for vacating the award.The opposition argues the Arbitrator carefully interpreted the Operating Agreement and determined that Plaintiff was entitled to repayment of his approximately $116,000 in advances pursuant to the priority set forth in the Operating Agreement.  Plaintiff also argues the Arbitrator expressly ordered that Plaintiff’s “capital contribution must be repaid to him in accordance with the terms of the Operating Agreement.” Courts generally do not review an arbitrator’s legal reasoning, even where an error of law appears on the face of the award.  (Moncharsh, supra, 3 Cal.4th at p. 6 [“[A]n arbitrator’s decision is not generally reviewable for errors of fact or law, whether or not such error appears on the face of the award and causes substantial injustice to the parties.”])  As such, Defendants’ arguments about the Arbitrator’s misunderstanding of the Operating Agreement may not be considered.ConclusionUltimately, Defendants lack convincing evidence that the Arbitrator exceeded her authority.  The arbitration process is designed to provide finality, and the Court’s intervention should be reserved for clear instances of arbitrator overreach, which is not evident in this case.  For these reasons, Defendants’ motion is denied.