Here is the summary of the tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23SMCV02421
Plaintiff's Name: ANTHONY BOUYER
Defendant's Name: WORLD OIL CORP.
People-Names: 
Company-Names: 
Places: Beverly Hills Courthouse, Department 205, Los Angeles County, West District
Dates: 
Events: 
Money: 
Intentions: 
Facts: 
Disputes: 
Acts: 
Agreements: 
Laws: 
Case Citations: 
Statutes: 
Roles: 
Significant Statements:

- "A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint."
- "A disabled plaintiff has standing to bring a claim under the Unruh Act where he 'can show he … actually presented himself … to a business or public place with the intent of purchasing its products or utilizing its services … and was actually denied equal access on a particular occasion'."
- "A plaintiff bringing a construction-related accessibility action must plead facts in his complaint clearly stating the purported access barriers in plain language and explaining how he was denied full and equal access and/or was deterred from revisiting the business in question."
- "The complaint fails to answer the basic questions of what the slope of the parking space was, the distance of the parking space to the entrance, how there was lack of an accessible route and how each of these alleged violations impeded Plaintiff’s access on the particular date of Plaintiff’s visit."
- "Plaintiff fails to plead facts explaining why he was in the geographic area of the gas station or why he specifically sought out the gas station’s services, as is required for a high-frequency litigant under Section 425.50."
```

And here is the English text summarizing the judge's tentative ruling:

The judge has tentatively ruled that the complaint filed by Plaintiff Anthony Bouyer against World Oil Corp. fails to state a cause of action under the Unruh Civil Rights Act. The complaint alleges that the gas station owned by World Oil Corp. violated ADA standards, but fails to provide sufficient details on how these alleged violations prevented the plaintiff from accessing the gas station or deterred him from revisiting the business. The judge has given the plaintiff 20 days to amend the complaint to provide more specific information on the alleged barriers, the plaintiff's intent, and why he chose to visit the gas station. The judge has sustained the defendant's demurrer with leave to amend.