..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23AHCV01733
Plaintiff's Name: Lawanda Jackson, Kayzah Jackson
Defendant's Name: State Farm General Insurance Company, State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance, State Farm General
People-Names: Lawanda Jackson, Kayzah Jackson, Barry Zelner, William A. Crowfoot
Company-Names: State Farm Insurance, State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance, State Farm General Insurance Company
Places: California, Los Angeles, Northeast District
Dates: November 1, 2024, December 5, 2023, December 10, 2024, December 13, 2024, August 2024, January 13, 2025
Events: Plaintiffs' motion to amend complaint, filing of proposed Second Amended Complaint, strike of proposed Second Amended Complaint, grant of motion to correct complaint
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: To correct the complaint to name the correct defendant and remove State Farm Mutual as a defendant
Facts: Plaintiffs' initial complaint named State Farm Insurance, later amended to name State Farm Mutual and State Farm General, but State Farm General was eventually discovered to be the correct defendant
Disputes: Naming of correct defendant, removal of State Farm Mutual as a defendant
Acts: Filing of motion to amend complaint, filing of proposed Second Amended Complaint, strike of proposed Second Amended Complaint, grant of motion to correct complaint
Agreements: None mentioned
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure, section 473, subdivision (a)(1); California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subdivision (c)
Case Citations: None mentioned
Statutes: California Code of Civil Procedure, section 473
Roles: Judge William A. Crowfoot, Plaintiffs' counsel Barry Zelner
Significant Statements: "The court may, in its discretion and after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading..."; "The court may deem a motion to file an amendment to a pleading to be a motion to file an amended pleading and require the filing of the entire previous pleading with the approved amendments incorporated into it."
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge has tentatively ruled on a motion by the plaintiffs to correct their complaint and name the correct defendant. The plaintiffs originally named State Farm Insurance in their complaint, but later amended it to name State Farm Mutual and State Farm General. However, it was later discovered that State Farm General was the correct defendant. The judge has granted the motion and ordered the plaintiffs to file a new amended complaint within 5 days, which will name State Farm General as the correct defendant and remove State Farm Mutual as a defendant. The judge has also struck the previously proposed amended complaint from the docket.
