 Case Number:  24NNCP00648    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



In re Nitish Walia,
 
Petitioner,


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  24NNCP00648
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: FIRST AMENDED PETITION FOR ORDER FINDING UNLAWFUL USE OF
   PETITIONER’S PERSONAL INFORMATION 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
January
   13, 2025




 


)


 



 
Petitioner Nitish Walia (“Walia”) seeks
an order pursuant to Civil Code § 1798.201 for an order stating that his name
was unlawfully used in the incorporation of Nitish VisionQuest, LLC
(“VisionQuest”). Walia contends he is the victim of identity theft and that in
July 2024, he began receiving numerous credit card applications under VisionQuest’s
name at his residence. Walia did not create this corporation and does not know
who did.
On January 5, 2025, Walia filed a First
Amended Petition. 
Civil Code § 1798.201 provides: 
A person who has learned or reasonably
suspects that his or her personal identifying information has been used
unlawfully, as described in subdivision (a) of Section 530.5 of the Penal Code,
in a business entity filing, and has initiated a law enforcement investigation
in accordance with subdivision (a) of Section 530.6 of the Penal Code, may
petition the superior court in the county in which the person resides for an
order, which may be granted ex parte, directing the alleged perpetrator of the
act … if known, and the person using the personal identifying information in
the business entity filing to appear at a hearing before the court and show
cause for both of the following:
 
(a) Why the personal identifying
information should not be labeled to show the information is impersonated and
does not reflect the person’s identity.
 
(b) Why the personal identifying
information should be associated with the business entity.
 
“If the court determines the petition is meritorious and
there is no reasonable cause to believe that the victim’s personal identifying
information has been used lawfully in the business entity filing, the court
shall make a finding that the victim’s personal identifying information has
been used unlawfully in the business entity filing and shall issue an order
certifying this determination.” (Civ. Code, § 1798.202, subd. (b).) The Court
shall then [o]rder the name and associated personal identifying information in
the business entity filing to be redacted or labeled to show that the data is
impersonated and does not reflect the victim’s identity.” (Id., subd.
(c)(1).) 
          The Court
notes that no proof of service is on file for the First Amended Petition and
that the language of Civil Code section 1798.201 provides for an order to show cause,
suggesting that due process must be given to the person accused of unlawfully
using the personally identifying information to give them an opportunity to
explain their use of that information. The Court acknowledges that it would be
difficult to serve VisionQuest considering that Walia has purportedly been wrongfully
named as the agent for service of process. However, the Code of Civil Procedure
allows Walia to seek permission to serve VisionQuest through other means, such
as service by publication (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.50) or substituted service by
hand delivery on the Secretary of State (Corp. Code, § 1702). 
Therefore, the Court declines to rule
on the First Amended Petition at this time and CONTINUES the hearing to
__________________ to allow Walia an opportunity to serve VisionQuest with the
First Amended Petition. 
          Dated this 13th
day of January 2025
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.