 Case Number:  22TRCV00984    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 May
8, 2024 
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   22TRCV00984  
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Chelebian v. General
Motors, LLC   
¿¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff Gail Chelebian
¿¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant
General Motors, LLC 
¿¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        June
2, 2025  
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Plaintiff Gail Chelebian’s
Motion to Compel Defendant General Motors, LLC’s Compliance with Order of
September 13, 2023
¿¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) Discuss.  The evidence before the Court is conflicting,
but neither party provided copies of the Bates-numbered documents so the Court could
determine which side is correct.  ¿¿¿Instead,
Plaintiff filed a declaration that said GM failed, and GM filed a declaration
that says it complied.  The Court will
decide, once it sees the actual documents, and the actual verification with the
written responses. 
¿¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ ¿¿¿ 
1.      
Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿ This is a lemon law action arising from allegations
that Plaintiff Gail Chelebian (Plaintiff) purchased a 2017 Chevrolet Bolt in
December 2017, with an express written warranty, which was delivered with
various defects. (SAC ¶¶ 6–9.)
2.      
¿¿Procedural  
The original complaint was filed
on October 19, 2022.
 
On June 6, 2023, this Court
issued guidance concerning the parties’ meet and confer efforts on Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses to requests for production, and continued
the hearing.
 
On September 13, 2023, this Court
granted in part Plaintiff’s motion to compel further.
 
Plaintiff filed the present
motion to compel compliance on January 30, 2024. Defendant filed an opposition
on February 26, 2024. Hearing on the motion was held on March 8, 2024, with the
parties directed to supply additional briefing for the court’s consideration.
Defendant filed its supplemental briefing with a Declaration of defense counsel
Habib on March 20, 2024.  In her
declaration, Ms. Habib listed Bates numbers as the Court required for the
technical documents and TSBs GM produced under a verification of a GM employee
in response to RFPs 24, 25, 76, 76, 78, and 79. 

 
Plaintiff filed a supplemental
declaration of counsel Ebony Randolf on May 1, 2024, which essentially asserts
GM did nothing and is in complete violation of prior orders.  She asserts that GM did not produce ESI or
emails relating to its internal investigation of the battery defect issues But
there is an ambiguity in Ms. Randolf’s presentation, which is the use of the word
“verified” when describing what GM did or did not do.  It would be helpful to the Court in oral argument
is Plaintiff could separate out the question of whether GM has provided further
responses and further documents, or whether what is missing is the verification
for such materials.  It appears that Ms. Randolph
asserts what while GM may have turned over some technical literature, it still
has not produced a single communication as required by the granted motion as to
RFP 76 between GM and NHTSA regarding a remedy, repair or replacement for a
Chevy Volt’s battery-related issues of a fire, melting, burning, or failure to
maintain or reach a full charge. 
Typically there is a transmittal letter and a response letter or a
report, but per Plaintiff, GM has not provided such things.  Ms. Randolph also asserts that GM has not
produced the Court-ordered single document as to RFP 24 and 25 that evidences the
date and circumstances when a GM engineer and a GM employee who makes
recommendations to consider a safety recall campaign first learned of the existence
of a battery-related issue with 2017 Chevy Volts like the plaintiff’s
here.  Ms. Habib filed a supplemental
declaration on May 3, 2024.
 
            Part
of the difficulty for the Court is that the lawyers are repeatedly arguing
their position, without showing the Court what the Bates-numbered documents are
so the Court can make an independent determination of compliance.  For example, GM identified Bates numbers for
its response to RFPs 24 and 25, but without showing those documents to the Court,
the judge cannot determine which of the two lawyers is telling the Court the
truth about compliance or lack of compliance. 

 
Ms. Randolph does not explain in
her declaration any RFPs as to which no documents were produced, or what is
incomplete about the document production. 
She does attach excerpts from a class action complaint in 2015 in the Eastern
District of Michigan to evidence databases that GM was alleged a decade ago to have
maintained where documents could be located, but did not attach a single Bates-numbered
document from the production in this case so the Court could see that GM’s
listing is non-compliant.  GM is guilty
of the same problem.  The Habib
declaration asserts that GM is fully compliant, but there is no verification
provided as an exhibit to the declaration, none of the Bates-numbered documents
are provided to show that GM in fact complied. 
For example, did GM produce an early warning or TREAD report in response
to RFPs 78 and 79?  Did GM produce a “communication”
between GM and NHTSA?
 
II. ANALYSIS¿¿ ¿¿ 
This Court on September 13, 2023, granted in part Plaintiff’s motion to
compel further responses to Requests for Production No. 24, 25, 42, 76, 78, 79,
and 90,  The court’s order as to each
response was as follows:
·      
No. 24:
Defendant “to produce the “single document that evidences the date and circumstances
when a GM employee with the title or job description of engineer first learned
of the existence of a battery charging, melting, or burning problem in a Chevrolet
Volt vehicle”;
·      
No. 25:
Defendant “to produce the single document that evidences the date and
circumstances when a GM employee -- who then sat on a team or committee that
makes recommendations to the Legal Department or management to consider a safety
recall campaign -- first learned of the claim of a battery-related fire,
melting, or burning problem in a Chevrolet Volt vehicle.
·      
No. 42:
Defendant “to produce non-privileged documents . . . disseminated to the dealer
body that evidences a remedy, repair, or component replacement to address a
customer complaint -- applicable to a model year 2017 Chevy Volt – of a failure
to maintain or reach a full charge, or for a battery-related fire, melting, or
burning complaint.”
·      
No. 76:
Defendant to produce “communications” with NHTSA or EPA “regarding a report to
either of those government agencies or a response to a request from either of
those agencies that evidences a remedy, repair, or component replacement
applicable to the battery in a model year 2017 Chevy Volt of a failure of an
e-vehicle battery to maintain or reach a full charge, or for a battery-related
fire, melting, or burning complaint.”
·      
No. 78:
Defendant to produce “to produce any early warning reports GM submitted to NHTSA
that included in their scope model year 2017 Chevy Volts.”
·      
No. 79: Defendant
“to produce any TREAD reports GM submitted to NHTSA that included in their
scope model year 2017 Chevy Volts.”
·      
No. 90:
Defendant to produce “any customer literature . . . or any technical literature
dated in 2017  .. . that evidence the
battery performance standards GM promulgates for model year 2017 Chevy Volts.”
¿ 
 
 The
Court is inclined to order GM to provide a duplicate copy of its actual
verified written response, whether original, supplemental, amended or
otherwise, PLUS the Bates-numbered documents produced.  Only then can the Court evaluation the merits
of the disputing counsels’ positions.  
 
 
  
 
 
 