 Case Number:  23TRCV01223    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                          Thursday, April 25,
2024
Department M                                                                                                                            Calendar
No. 15
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Gwendolyn Newsome Anderson, et al. v. Torrance
Memorial Medical Center, et al.
            23TRCV01223
1.      Driftwood Healthcare & Wellness Center, LLC
(erroneously sued as Driftwood Healthcare & Rehabilitation Center LLC) and
Citrus Wellness Center, LLC’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Driftwood Healthcare & Wellness
Center, LLC (erroneously sued as Driftwood Healthcare & Rehabilitation
Center LLC) and Citrus Wellness Center, LLC’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and
Stay Proceedings is denied. 
 
Background 
            
            Plaintiffs filed their Complaint on April
19, 2023. Plaintiffs allege the following facts. Plaintiffs’ decedent died
while a patient of Defendants.  Plaintiffs set forth the following causes of
action: 1. Negligence 2. Elder Abuse 3. Willful Misconduct 4. Wrongful Death. 
 
Motion to
Compel Arbitration
 
            “California law reflects a strong
public policy in favor of arbitration as a relatively quick and inexpensive
method for resolving disputes. 
[Citation.]  To further that policy, [Code of Civil Procedure]
section 1281.2 requires a trial court to enforce a written arbitration
agreement unless one of three limited exceptions applies.  [Citation.] 
Those statutory exceptions arise where (1) a party waives the right to
arbitration; (2) grounds exist for revoking the arbitration agreement; and (3)
pending litigation with a third party creates the possibility of conflicting
rulings on common factual or legal issues. 
(§ 1281.2, subds. (a)–(c).)”  Acquire
II, Ltd. v. Colton Real Estate Group (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 959, 967. 
 
“The petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid
arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence, and a party
opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence any fact necessary to its defense.  In these summary proceedings, the trial court
sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other
documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court’s
discretion, to reach a final determination.”  Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc.
(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.
 
“The party opposing arbitration has the burden of demonstrating that an
arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to require arbitration of the dispute.  Nonetheless, this policy does not override
ordinary principles of contract interpretation.  [T]he contractual terms themselves must be
carefully examined before the parties to the contract can be ordered to
arbitration:  Although [t]he law favors
contracts for arbitration of disputes between parties, there is no policy
compelling persons to accept arbitration of controversies which they have not
agreed to arbitrate.”  Rice v. Downs
(2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 1213, 1223 (internal citations and quotations omitted). 
 
In Rowe v. Exline (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1276, 1286, the Court of Appeal found that “a nonsignatory sued as
an agent of a signatory may enforce an arbitration agreement.”  Id.
at 1286.  In addition, “a nonsignatory
who is the agent of a signatory can even be compelled to arbitrate claims
against his will.”  Id. at 1285, citing Harris v. Superior Court (1986) 188
Cal.App.3d 475, 477–78.  Further, “in
many cases, nonparties to arbitration agreements are allowed to enforce those
agreements where there is sufficient identity of parties.”  Valley
Casework, Inc. v. Comfort Construction, Inc. (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 1013,
1021.  This includes nonparties as agents
of a party as well as “a third party beneficiary of an arbitration
agreement.”  Ibid.  
 
            Defendants move to compel
arbitration and to stay this action pursuant to California Code of Civil
Procedure §§ 1280, et seq., and the FAA on the grounds that Plaintiff Gwendolyn
Newsome Anderson, individually, and as the legal representative of the decedent
James Clarence Anderson executed an arbitration agreement wherein Plaintiffs
are bound to arbitrate the claims alleged in the Complaint.
 
Defendants attached as Exhibit 1 to the Declaration of Mellanie San Diego the purported
agreement that was signed by Gwendolyn Newsome Anderson. The arbitration
provision states as follows:
 
“1.1 It is understood that any dispute as to medical
malpractice, that is as to whether any medical services rendered under this
contract were unnecessary or unauthorized or were improperly, negligently or
incompetently rendered, will be determined by submission to arbitration, ...
and not by a lawsuit or resort to court process. Both parties to this contract,
by entering into it, are giving up their constitutional right to have any such
dispute decided in a court of law before a jury, and instead are accepting the
use of arbitration.” 
“1.2 It is also understood that any and all other
disputes, controversies, demands or claims that relate or arise out of the
provision of services or health care or any failure to provide services or
healthcare by Facility… including, without limitation, claims that allege:
…violations of the Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act…will be
determined by submission to arbitration and not by a lawsuit or resort to court
process except as California law provides for judicial review of arbitration proceedings.
Both parties to this contract, by entering into it, are giving up their
constitutional right to have any such dispute decided in a court of law before
a jury, and instead are accepting the use of arbitration.”
 
Defendants move to compel arbitration and to stay the
civil action based on the decedent’s surviving heir’s, Gwendolyn Anderson, signature
on the subject arbitration agreement. Defendants acknowledge that the patient,
decedent James Clarence Anderson, did not sign the arbitration agreement. 
 
Defendants submitted no competent evidence to
establish that Gwendolyn Anderson had authority to sign the arbitration
agreement on behalf of James Clarence Anderson. A person is not the patient’s
authorized agent simply by virtue of being the patient’s next of kin.  Pagarigan
v. Libby Care Center, Inc. (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 298, 302 (holding that the
patient’s daughters had no authority to sign arbitration agreement even though
they were next of kin where there was no evidence that she had signed a durable
power of attorney despite the fact that she was comatose at admission).  Similarly, a patient who signs a power of
attorney form after a family member already signed an arbitration agreement for
her does not automatically ratify the earlier arbitration agreement.  Flores
v. Evergreen At San Diego, LLC (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 581, 588 (holding
that husband could not bind wife to the arbitration agreement because there was
no evidence showing that the wife gave her express or implied consent to have
husband act as her agent).  
 
Here, Defendants provided no evidence to show that Gwendolyn
Anderson was decedent’s agent. “An agency is actual when the agent is really
employed by the principal.”  Civ. Code, §
2299.  Defendant submitted no evidence
that an actual agency was created herein. 
“An agency is ostensible when the principal intentionally, or by want of
ordinary care, causes a third person to believe another to be his agent who is
not really employed by him.”  Civ. Code,
§ 2300.  Defendants submitted no evidence
to establish ostensible agency.  No
evidence was provided as to any acts of decedent by which Defendants were made
to believe that Gwendolyn Anderson was decedent’s agent. 
 
“When a defendant contends an agreement to arbitrate
is binding because it was signed by an agent of the plaintiff, the defendant
bears the burden of proving the signatory was the plaintiff's actual or
ostensible agent. A defendant seeking to compel arbitration does not meet its
burden of proving the existence of an arbitration agreement when it does not
present any evidence that the purported principal's conduct caused the agent or
the [defendant] to believe that the agent had the authority to bind the
principal. In particular, a defendant cannot meet its burden to prove the
signatory acted as the agent of a plaintiff by relying on representations of
the purported agent alone.” Kinder v. Capistrano Beach Care Center, LLC
(2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 804, 812 (internal citations and quotations omitted). In Kinder,
the Court held that the mere statement in the arbitration clause that the
signer was acting as resident’s agent was insufficient. Here, in the instant
action, Defendants provided no evidence to establish that Gwendolyn Anderson was
the agent of decedent.  
 
With the Reply, Defendant argues that Plaintiff should
be bound based on ostensible agency. “An
agency is ostensible when the principal intentionally, or by want of ordinary
care, causes a third person to believe another to be his agent who is not
really employed by him.”  Civ. Code, §
2300.  However, Defendant submitted no
evidence to establish ostensible agency. 
No evidence was provided as to any acts of James Clarence Anderson
whereby Defendant was made to believe that Gwendolyn Anderson was James
Clarence Anderson’s agent. 
 
With the Reply, Defendant
also argues that Plaintiff should be bound under equitable estoppel
principles.  In certain situations, a
non-party to an agreement may be equitably estopped from refusing to be bound
by an arbitration agreement.   Turtle Ridge Media Group, Inc. v. Pacific
Bell Directory (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 828, 831-35.  Here, however, Defendant submitted no
evidence to establish that Plaintiff is equitably estopped from refusing to be
bound by the agreement.      
 
Because the moving party
failed to meet its initial burden to show the existence of a valid arbitration
clause as to the claims of decedent, the burden does not shift to Plaintiff to
show that the arbitration clause should not be enforced as to these claims. Rice,
supra, 247 Cal.App.4th at 1223.
 
With respect to Gwendolyn
Anderson’s individual claim for Wrongful Death, the Court exercises its
discretion to deny the motion pursuant to CCP § 1281.2(c). 
 
“Under the doctrine of
equitable estoppel, [...] a nonsignatory defendant may invoke an arbitration
clause to compel a signatory plaintiff to arbitrate its claims when the causes
of action against the nonsignatory are intimately founded in and intertwined
with the underlying contract obligations. By relying on contract terms in a
claim against a nonsignatory defendant, even if not exclusively, a plaintiff
may be equitably estopped from repudiating the arbitration clause contained in
that agreement. Where the equitable estoppel doctrine applies, the nonsignatory
has a right to enforce the arbitration agreement.” Felisilda v. FCA US LLC (2020)
53 Cal.App.5th 486, 495–96 (internal citations and quotations omitted).
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2
states, in relevant part: “On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement
alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and
that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court
shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if
it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists[. . .]”
“Generally, an arbitration agreement must be memorialized in writing. A party's
acceptance of an agreement to arbitrate may be express, as where a party signs
the agreement. A signed agreement is not necessary, however, and a party's
acceptance may be implied in fact or be effectuated by delegated consent. An
arbitration clause within a contract may be binding on a party even if the
party never actually read the clause.” Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v.
Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236
(internal citations omitted).
 
Here, the only arbitration
provision that was attached to the motion was one executed by Driftwood
Healthcare & Wellness (“Driftwood”) and Gwendolyn Anderson. Moving
Defendant Citrus Wellness Center (“Citrus”) has failed to establish that it is
a party to the arbitration clause or that equitable estoppel principles allow
it to enforce the arbitration provision. As noted above, binding authorities
exist to indicate that a non-signatory may enforce an arbitration provision.
However, no competent evidence was submitted by moving party to indicate that
it is an agent of Driftwood, a third-party beneficiary of Driftwood, or that
other circumstances exist, such as an identity of parties, to show that Citrus
can enforce the arbitration clause. The only evidence that was attached to the
declaration was the above-referenced arbitration agreement, as well as various
consent and admission forms. With the Reply, Citrus provides mere argument
without any supporting evidence.
 
 Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2(c) provides an
exception to arbitration when:
“A party to the arbitration
agreement is also a party to a pending court action or special proceeding with
a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related
transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue
of law or fact. For purposes of this section, a pending court action or special
proceeding includes an action or proceeding initiated by the party refusing to
arbitrate after the petition to compel arbitration has been filed, but on or
before the date of the hearing on the petition. This subdivision shall not be
applicable to an agreement to arbitrate disputes as to the professional
negligence of a health care provider made pursuant to Section 1295.” 
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2
further provides:
“If the court determines
that a party to the arbitration is also a party to litigation in a pending
court action or special proceeding with a third party as set forth under
subdivision (c), the court (1) may refuse to enforce the arbitration agreement
and may order intervention or joinder of all parties in a single action or
special proceeding; (2) may order intervention or joinder as to all or only
certain issues; (3) may order arbitration among the parties who have agreed to
arbitration and stay the pending court action or special proceeding pending the
outcome of the arbitration proceeding; or (4) may stay arbitration pending the
outcome of the court action or special proceeding.”
 
Here, in addition to Citrus
failing to establish that is a party to the arbitration agreement, there are other
parties not subject to this motion – Defendants Torrance Memorial Medical
Center, Torrance Health Association, Inc., Providence Little Company of Mary,
Torrance, and Providence Health Systems Southern California. Thus, even assuming
that an arbitration provision has been established between Plaintiff Anderson and
Driftwood, the Court exercises its discretion to refuse to enforce the
arbitration clause pursuant to CCP § 1281.2(c) and to proceed in this single court
action.
 
Therefore, the Court declines to grant the motion to
compel arbitration.  Thus, Defendants’
Motion to Compel Arbitration and to Stay Action is denied.  
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice of this ruling.