 Case Number:  23TRCV00735    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                          Thursday, April 25, 2024 
Department M                                                                                                                           Calendar No. 14  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Peter
Saleh, et al. v. Little Company of Mary Medical Center, et al.  
23TRCV00735

Peter Saleh, et al.’s Motion to Set Aside Dismissal       

 
TENTATIVE RULING
      
            Peter Saleh, et al.’s Motion to Set
Aside Dismissal is denied without prejudice.
 
            Background
 
Plaintiffs filed the Complaint on March 13, 2023.
Plaintiffs allege the following facts. Plaintiffs’ decedent died due to the
medical negligence of Defendants. 
 
            Motion to Set Aside Dismissal
 
CCP § 473(b) states, in relevant part: “The court may,
upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy
of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the
application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time,
in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or
proceeding was taken.  . . .  Notwithstanding any other requirements of
this section, the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no
more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is
accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by
the clerk against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a
default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered
against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal
was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect. The court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an attorney's
affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal
fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties. . . .”
 
Plaintiffs move for an order granting relief from the
entry of dismissal. The motion is brought pursuant to CCP § 473 et seq. on the
ground that the dismissal was entered due to the mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, and/or excusable neglect of Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs argue that the dismissal
was entered due to the mistake, inadvertence, surprise, and/or excusable neglect
of Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs contend that they believed that they had retained
counsel to represent them for the entire action. However, instead, apparently
retained counsel only assisted in drafting the Complaint in a “ghost-written”
manner and did not follow through in appearing for the CMC on September 27,
2023. (Decl., Peter Saleh, ¶¶ 3-6.)  This
resulted in the dismissal of the action according to Plaintiffs.
 
“Under the statute and in addition to the necessity of
excusing the original default by a sufficient showing of “mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect,” the application must also be made within a
“reasonable time” within six months after the party becomes aware that a
default has been entered against it. This court has held that what a
“reasonable time” is in any case depends primarily on the facts and
circumstances of each individual case, but definitively requires a showing of
diligence in making the motion after the discovery of the default.  In
other words, the moving party must not only make a sufficient showing of
“mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect” in order to excuse the original
default but must also show diligence in filing its application under section
473 after learning about the default. If there is a delay in filing for relief
under section 473, the reason for the delay must be substantial and must
justify or excuse the delay.” Stafford v. Mach (1998) 64
Cal.App.4th 1174, 1181(internal citations and quotations omitted). 
 
Here, the Court notes that the motion was filed just
barely within the six-month time limit. The dismissal was entered on September
27, 2023, and the motion was filed on March 27, 2024. While the motion was made
within six months of the entry of default, Plaintiffs are silent as to why the
motion was not made earlier and provide no facts to justify or excuse the
delay. Thus, Plaintiffs do not establish the required diligence to obtain
relief from the entry of dismissal. 
 
The motion is therefore denied without prejudice under
the discretionary provision of CCP § 473(b). 
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice of this ruling.