

 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
                   
I.
Background  
On October 31, 2022, Plaintiffs
Evelyne I. Franzua, Daveon L. Myles, and Sariah A. Harris Franzua, filed an
action against Defendants Joseph Zepeda and Frank Zepeda for motor vehicle and
general negligence, arising out of a vehicle collision that occurred on August
26, 2021. 
                On May 1, 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel filed the instant
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel. No opposition has been filed. 
 
                
II.Legal Standard
The court may order that an attorney be
changed or substituted at any time before or after judgment or final
determination upon request by either client or attorney and after notice from
one to the other. (Code Civ. Proc. § 284, subd. (2).) “The determination
whether to grant or deny a motion to withdraw as counsel lies within the sound
discretion of the trial court.” (Manfredi & Levine v. Superior Court (1998)
66 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1133.) An application to be relieved as counsel must be
made on Judicial Counsel Forms MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion), MC-052
(Declaration), and MC-053 (Proposed Order). (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362,
subds. (a), (c), (e).) 
In addition, California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1362 subsection (d) requires that the notice of motion and motion,
declaration, and proposed order be served on the client and all other parties
who have appeared in the case by personal service, electronic service, or mail.
If the notice is served by mail, it must be accompanied by a declaration
stating facts showing that either: 
(A) The service address is the current
residence or business address of the client; or 
(B) The service address is the last known
residence or business address of the client and the attorney has been unable to
locate a more current address after making reasonable efforts to do so within
30 days before the filing of the motion to be relieved. 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subd.
(1)(A) & (2).) 
 
             
III.Discussion 
 
Plaintiffs’ Counsel seeks to
be relieved because: (1) conduct by the client renders it unreasonably
difficult to carry out employment effectively; (2) client’s continued lack of
response to his attorney; (3) non-cooperation by client; and (4) the
relationship of trust and confidence essential to the attorney-client
relationship has ceased to exist. (MC-052, ¶ 2.)  
 
The Court is satisfied with
Counsel’s reasons for seeking to be relieved. Counsel states in his declaration
that the Motion was served at Plaintiff’s last known address which was
confirmed as current within 30 days before this Motion was filed by emails and
telephone. (Id. at ¶ 3.) Further, the proof of service filed demonstrates
that Plaintiffs were served with the Motion and supporting documents as
required by California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362. No defendant has yet
answered and thus, service is not needed upon them. Further, the proposed order
and declaration have correct hearing dates listed for this action. In addition,
trial is not yet set and thus, granting this motion will not cause prejudice as
Plaintiffs have sufficient time to obtain new representation if they so choose.
 
             
IV.Conclusion & Order 
 
For the foregoing reasons, Plaintiffs’ Counsel’s Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel is GRANTED.
 
The Court's Ruling and Attorney's relief as Counsel of
record for client is not effective until Proof of Service of the Order signed
by the Court upon the client is filed in this action.  Until then, counsel continues to be counsel
of record.  Cal. Rules of Court
3.1362(e). 
 
Status Conference Re: 
Status of Plaintiffs’ Substitution of Attorney or Motion to Be Relieved
as Counsel scheduled for 08/01/2024 is hereby taken off calendar.
 
The Court sets a Status Conference Re:  Status of Plaintiffs’ Legal Representation
for 08/01/2024 at 9:30 a.m. in Department 25 of the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
The
Moving party is ordered to give notice and to attach a copy of the Court's
Tentative Ruling, as an exhibit “A” to said notice, as the final order of the
Court.
 
 
 