

 
BACKGROUND
 
On September
28, 2022, Plaintiff Safeway Insurance Company (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Jasiel Trujillo Roman (“Defendant”) and Does I through V,
inclusive, for damages. 
 
The
Complaint alleges the following: on or about July 31, 2021, Defendant collided
with Plaintiff’s insured and, as a result of the collision, Plaintiff’s insured’s
property was damaged in the total sum of $19,402.32. (Complaint, ¶¶ 7-8.) Plaintiff
issued a policy of insurance to its insured and thereby became subrogated to
all of the rights of its insured against Defendant. (Complaint, ¶ 9.) 
 
On March
3, 2023, Defendant filed an Answer to the Complaint setting forth a general
denial and 13 affirmative defenses.
 
On January
10, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to deem the Requests for Admissions, Set
One, it propounded on Defendant as admitted. 
 
On February
29, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion to deem its Requests for
Admissions, Set One as admitted. (02/29/24 Minute Order.) 
 
Pursuant
to its February 29, 2024 order, the following matters in Plaintiff’s RFAs were
admitted:
 
1.     
Admit that at the time of the INCIDENT, you were
driving a motor vehicle. (For purposes of these requests, the term INCIDENT
refers to the accident upon which this action was based).
2.     
Admit that at the time of the INCIDENT, you failed to
drive with reasonable care.
3.     
Admit that your driving was the sole cause of the
COLLISION with plaintiff’s INSURED VEHICLE. (For purposes of these requests,
the term COLLISION refers to the motor vehicle accident which is the basis of
the INCIDENT; the term INSURED VEHICLE refers to the other vehicle involved in
the INCIDENT for which plaintiff is seeking to recover damages.)
4.     
Admit that you were at least 1% a fault in causing the
COLLISION.
5.     
Admit that you were 100% at fault in causing the
COLLISION.
6.     
Admit that as a result of the COLLISION, you caused the
INSURED to incur damages. (For purposes of these requests, the term INSURED
refers to the owner of the INSURED VEHICLE.)
7.     
Admit that as a result of the COLLISION, you caused the
INSURED to incur damages of at least $19,402.32. 
8.     
Admit that plaintiff as the insurer for the INSURED has
been damaged in the amount of at least $19,402.32, the amount which it paid its
INSURED on the claim its INSURED made for his/her losses arising from INCIDENT
plus any other uncovered losses the INSURED suffered and assigned to plaintiff.

9.     
Admit that the affirmative defenses you have asserted
in this matter lack merit and evidentiary support. 
 
(See 02/29/24 Minute Order; see
also 01/10/24 Motion.) 
 
On March 26, 2024, pursuant to a
stipulation between the parties, the Court entered an 
order continuing trial from March 27, 2024 to September 18,
2024.
 
            On April 10,
2024, Plaintiff filed the instant unopposed Motion for Judgment on the
Pleadings. Any opposition to the motion was required to have been filed and
served at least nine court days prior to the hearing pursuant to CCP § 1005(b).

 
            On May 23,
2024, on its own motion, the Court continued the hearing on Plaintiff’s motion
for judgment on the pleadings to June 10, 2024. (05/23/24 Minute Order.) The
Clerk provided notice to all parties. (05/23/24 Minute Order.) 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Plaintiff
contends that, due to the Court granting its motion to deem its Requests for
Admissions, Set One as admitted, any issues raised by Defendant under a general
denial or any affirmative defenses are removed.  
 
 
 
 
 
OPPOSITION
 
            No
opposition brief filed as of June 6, 2024.    
 
REPLY
 
            No reply
brief filed as of June 6, 2024.
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Motion
for Judgment on the Pleadings 
A.               
Meet and Confer Requirement 
            Before
filing a motion for judgment on the pleadings, a moving party's counsel must
meet and confer, in person, by telephone, or by videoconference with counsel
for the party who filed the pleading “that is subject to the motion for
judgment on the pleadings for the purpose of determining if an agreement can be
reached that resolves the claims to be raised in the motion for judgment on the
pleadings.” (CCP § 439(a).) “A determination by the court that the meet
and confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to grant or deny the
motion for judgment on the pleadings.” (CCP § 439(a)(4).) 
            Plaintiff’s counsel, Joseph M.
Pleasant (“Pleasant”), declares that on March 5, 2024, he met and conferred
with Defendant’s counsel regarding Plaintiff’s intent to proceed with the
filing of the instant motion for judgment on the pleadings. (Pleasant Decl., ¶
1.) Counsel declares that, to date, no settlement has been reached. (Pleasant
Decl., ¶ 2.) Counsel states that there is really no way to resolve the matter
informally because the deemed admission cannot be cured or contradicted by
amending the pleadings. (Pleasant Decl., ¶ 1.)   
            The Court finds that
the meet and confer requirement has not been met as counsel does not indicate
whether counsel met and conferred in person, by telephone, or by
videoconference. The Court, however, will assess the merits of the motion for
judgment on the pleadings. The Court reminds the parties of the need to comply
with the requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure. 
B.        Judicial Notice  
            The Court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice pursuant to Evid. Code §§ 452 and 453.
The Court therefore takes judicial notice of Defendant’s Answer, Plaintiff’s
Motion to Deem Admissions, and the Court’s February 29, 2024 order granting
Plaintiff’s Motion to Deem Admissions. 
 
 
 
C.         Legal Standard 
“A party may move for
judgment on the pleadings.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (b)(1).) “If the
moving party is a plaintiff, [the motion may only be made on the grounds] that
the complaint states facts sufficient to constitute a cause or causes of action
against the defendant and the answer does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a defense to the complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(1)(A).)
In assessing a motion for judgment on the pleadings, a court “may consider
matters that may be judicially noticed.” Pang v. Beverly Hosp., Inc. (2000)
79 Cal.App.4th 986, 990, citation omitted. A motion for judgment on the
pleadings may be filed by a plaintiff if “the defendant has already filed his
or her answer to the complaint and the time for the plaintiff to demur to the
answer has expired.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (f)(1).) A motion pursuant
to CCP § 438 “may be made . . . if a pretrial conference order has been entered
pursuant to Section 575, or within 30 days of the date the action is initially
set for trial, whichever is later, unless the court otherwise permits.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (e).) 
 “A motion for judgment on the
pleadings has the same function as a general demurrer, and hence attacks only
defects disclosed on the face of the pleadings or by matters that can be
judicially noticed.” Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th
995, 999. “A motion for judgment on the pleadings is akin to a general
demurrer; it tests the sufficiency of the complaint to state a cause of
action.” Wise v. Pacific Gas and Elec. Co. (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 725, 738.  
“Judicial admissions may be made in a
pleading, by stipulation during trial, or by response to request for
admission.” Barsegian v. Kessler & Kessler (2013) 215 Cal.Ap.4th 446,
451, citations omitted. “[I]n discovery when a party propounds requests for
admission, any facts admitted by the responding party constitute judicial
admissions.” Id. at p. 452. “A judicial admission is therefore
conclusive both as to the admitting party and as to that party’s opponent.”
Ibid., emphasis in original. “[I]f a factual allegation is treated as a
judicial admission, then neither party may attempt to contradict it—the
admitted fact is effectively conceded by both sides.” Ibid., emphasis
in original. 
1.         Appropriateness
of Granting the Instant Motion   

 
            Plaintiff
contends that its Requests for Admissions served upon Defendant have been
deemed admitted and such admissions establish both liability and the amount of
damages. (Motion at p. 6:2-5.) Plaintiff states that based on such admissions,
it moves for judgment on the pleadings. (Motion at p. 6:4-5.)  
 
            The Court
finds that the Notice of Motion is defective as it merely states that Plaintiff
“will and does hereby move for an order granting Plaintiff’s Judgment on the
Pleadings against defendant JASIEL TRUJILLO ROMAN. Said motion will be based on
this Notice, the Memorandum of Points and Authorities, Declaration of Joseph M.
Pleasant and the Request for Judicial Notice which establish that Plaintiff is
entitled to such relief.” (Motion at p. 1:22-26.) 
 
            However,
“[a] notice of motion must state in the opening paragraph the nature of the
order being sought and the grounds for the issuance of the order.” (Cal. Rules
of Court, Rule 3.1110(a).) Here, the Notice of Motion is void of any indication
of the basis for Plaintiff’s request for judgment on the pleadings. Given that
Plaintiff is the moving party, the motion can only be made on the grounds “that
the complaint states facts sufficient to constitute a cause or causes of action
against the defendant and the answer does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a defense to the complaint.” (CCP § 438(c)(1)(A).) Here, Plaintiff
does not even argue that the Complaint states facts to constitute a cause of
action against Defendant. Plaintiff also does not explicitly argue that the
Answer fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a defense to the
Complaint. To the contrary, Plaintiff argues that, due to the Court’s order
granting its motion as to deem the RFAs as admitted, its motion for judgment on
the pleadings is proper. 
 
            The Court
is unsure whether Plaintiff is asking the Court to determine that the Complaint
states facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action along with a
determination that—based on the Court’s February 29, 2024 Minute
Order—Defendant’s Answer fails to state sufficient facts to constitute a
defense. “[D]ue process requires a party to be fully advised of the issues to
be addressed and to be given adequate notice of what facts it must rebut in
order to prevail.” Fenn v. Sherriff (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 1466, 1481. 
 
            Additionally, the Court finds that
Plaintiff is improperly relying on the truth of deemed requests for admissions
to seek judgment on the pleadings against Defendant. The Court notes that on a
motion for judgment on the pleadings, the Court analyzes the pleadings and does
not rely on deemed admissions granted through discovery motions. Barker v.
Hull (1987) 191 Cal.App.3d 221, 224. Plaintiff’s cited authority also does
not support the proposition which it advances. The case of Barsegian, supra,
215 Cal.App.4th 446 is inapposite as such case addressed judicial
admissions in the context of a motion to compel arbitration and not a motion
for judgment on the pleadings. Plaintiff’s citation to Addy v. Bliss (1996) 44
Cal.App.4th 205 is also inapposite as such case involved judicial
admissions concerning a motion for summary judgment. 
 
It appears that Plaintiff is arguing
that there is no factual dispute concerning the Complaint or Defendant’s Answer
based on the Court’s February 29, 2024 order. The appropriate motion for
Plaintiff to file is not a motion for judgment on the pleadings, but rather a
motion for summary judgment. If Plaintiff contends that there are no triable
issues of fact, then Plaintiff should file a motion for summary judgment since
a motion for summary judgment allows the Court to determine whether there is
any triable issue of material fact. Saldana v. Globe-Weis Systems Co. (1991)
233 Cal.App.3d 1505, 1511. Only the legal sufficiency of allegations in a
pleading are tested pursuant to a motion for judgment on the pleadings. Lee
v. Kotyluk (2021) 59 Cal.App.5th 719, 728. Here, pursuant to the instant
motion, Plaintiff improperly requests that the Court make a factual
determination that certain issues of fact have been determined in Plaintiff’s
favor pursuant to the Court’s ruling on a discovery motion, and therefore
judgment should enter in Plaintiff’s favor and against Defendant. Thus, the
basis for the instant motion is improper. 
 
            Plaintiff may properly file and
serve a motion for summary judgment and/or summary adjudication. The Court will
assess the merits of such a motion if and when such a motion is filed. 
 
 
II.        Conclusion 
            
            Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s Motion for Judgment
on the Pleadings is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
 
            The Moving party is
ordered to give notice and to attach a copy of the Court's Tentative Ruling, as
an exhibit “A” to said notice, as the final order of the Court.
 