  Case Number:  21STCV19397    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



FOSTER WASHINGTON, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
DANIEL STURRIDGE,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  21STCV19397
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  May 2, 2024
 Calendar Number:  1



 
 
 
Defendant Daniel Sturridge (“Defendant”) moves to quash personal
or substituted service of process on him by Plaintiff Foster Washington
(“Plaintiff”).
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion.
 
Background
 
            This
is a breach of contract action. Plaintiff alleges that he found and returned
Defendant’s lost dog and filed this action to recover the promised reward. The
facts stated here are taken from the allegations in Plaintiff’s Complaint.
 
            In
July 2019, Defendant announced on social media that he had been burglarized and
his dog was stolen. Defendant offered a reward of $30,000.00 for the return of his
dog.
 
            Plaintiff
found and returned Defendant’s dog, but Defendant did not pay the reward.
 
            Plaintiff
filed this action against Defendant on May 24, 2021, raising claims for (1)
breach of oral contract; and (2) breach of written contract.
 
            Plaintiff’s
proof of service filed on August 20, 2021, states that Defendant was served on
July 3, 2021 at 2351 Mt. Olympus Drive, Los Angeles, CA 90046 by substituted
service. (Proof of Service of Summons at p. 1.)
 
            The
Court entered Default against Defendant on November 8, 2021.
 
            The
Court entered default judgment against Defendant on December 21, 2021 in the
total amount of $30,085.00.
 
            Defendant
moved for an order setting aside the default and default judgment on January 3,
2024, contending that he was not properly served in this action. On February 2,
2024, the Court set aside the default and default judgment entered against
Defendant, finding that the proof of service was defective on its face and that
Plaintiff had failed to provide evidence that Defendant was personally served.
 
            On
February 29, 2024, Defendant filed this motion to quash service as to
Plaintiff’s August 20, 2021 proof of service by substituted (or personal)
service. Plaintiff did not file an opposition.
 
            On
March 14, 2024, the Court issued an order for service by publication. On April
15, the Court denied Defendant’s ex parte application to set aside the order
for publication. On April 24, 2024, Defendant moved to quash service by
publication. That motion is not at issue here.
 
Discussion
 
            “To
establish personal jurisdiction, it is essential to comply with the statutory
procedures for service of process.” (OC Interior Services, LLC v. Nationstar
Mortgage, LLC (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 1318, 1330.) “Accordingly, a default
judgment entered against a defendant who was not served with a summons in the
manner prescribed by statute is void.” (Id. at p. 1331 [citation and
quotation marks omitted].) “Whether the lack of jurisdiction appears on the
face of the judgment roll, or is shown by extrinsic evidence for a judgment
that appears valid on its face, in either case the judgment is for all purposes
a nullity—past, present and future.” (Ibid. [citation and quotation
marks omitted].)
 
            The
Court previously determined in its order on the motion for relief from default
and default judgment that Plaintiff failed to establish that the service in
question was proper. Plaintiff does not oppose the motion here, nor are there
new facts indicating that the outcome should be different. The Court therefore
reiterates its analysis from the motion for relief from default and default
judgment, citing to the evidence filed in the Court record related thereto.
 
The Court grants Defendant’s motion for two separate and
independent reasons.
 
            First,
the proof of service on which the default judgment is based is defective on its
face. The proof of service states that the papers were served “by substituted
service” on July 3, 2021. (1/3/2024 Leventhal Decl. Ex. A.) They were served by
leaving the documents with an unidentified person who was a “competent member
of the household.” (Ibid.) However, the proof of service fails to check
box number (5), which states that it attaches a declaration of diligence reporting
the actions taken first to attempt personal service. (Ibid.)
 
Accordingly, the proof of service, on its face, fails to
establish substituted service. It does not comply with Civil Procedure Code
section 415.20, which requires that substituted service is allowed only if “the
summons and complaint cannot with reasonable diligence be personally delivered
to the person to be served.” Accordingly, considering only the face of the
proof of service, entry of the default and default judgment was not proper.
 
Second, the evidence in the court record does not support Plaintiff’s
contention that Defendant was personally served. The process server states in a
recently filed declaration that she “personally served” Defendant and that she
“believe[s]” that she served “the real Daniel Sturridge, because he matched his
description.” (1/19/2024 Wolford Decl. ¶ 6.) But this contradicts the proof of
service filed back in 2021, which asserted that substituted service, and not personal
service, had been effected. To put matters plainly, prior to Defendant’s motion
there is no indication whatsoever in the court record that Defendant was ever
personally served. Moreover, the process server’s stated basis for her current
belief that she personally served Defendant himself is not sufficiently strong
to show that Defendant was, in fact, served.
 
In addition, there is unequivocal evidence from Michelle
Wizman, the CEO of Mount Management, Inc. that Defendant did not live at or
have access to 2351 Mount Olympus Drive on July 3, 2021, when Defendant was
allegedly served there in 2021. (1/3/2024 Wizman Decl. ¶ 5.) He last lived at
that address in 2019. (Id. ¶ 4.) Plaintiff’s only response to this
evidence was to question whether Mount Management, Inc. controls the property
at 2351 Mount Olympus Drive and whether Ms. Wizman is who she says she is. But
the evidence submitted by Defendant on reply answers both those questions in
the affirmative. (1/24/2024 Reply Leventhal Decl. Exs. A-B.)
 
For the same reasons the Court granted Defendant’s motion to
vacate the default and default judgment, the Court grants Defendant’s motion to
quash service of process.