 Case Number:  23STCV29653    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DAVID SANCHEZ, et al., 
 
                                  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
FORD WALKER HAGGERTY & BEHAR
  LLP, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  23STCV29653
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  May 2, 2024
 Calendar Number:  6



 
 
 
Defendants Infinity Insurance Company (“Infinity”) and
Infinity Select Insurance Company (“Infinity Select”) (collectively, the
“Infinity Parties”) second cause of action in the First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) filed by Plaintiffs David Sanchez and Apple Markets, Inc. (“Apple
Markets”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”).
 
The Court OVERRULES the demurrer.
 
Background
 
            This
is an insurance case. The following facts are taken from the FAC.
 
            In
January 2017, Infinity Select issued a commercial auto liability policy (the
“Policy”) to “David Sanchez dba Apple Market.” 
 
            While
the Policy was in effect, an employee of Apple Markets, Jose Carranza Umberto Lopez,
was involved in an automobile accident with Benjamin Martinez.
 
            Martinez
filed a lawsuit against Lopez and Plaintiff Apple Markets, alleging personal
injuries resulting from the accident. Martinez did not name Plaintiff Sanchez
as a defendant. Sanchez was neither the driver nor the owner of the vehicle
involved in the accident. The Infinity Parties retained Ford Walker Haggerty
& Behar LLP (“Ford Walker”) to represent Lopez and Apple Markets in the
personal injury suit.
 
            Plaintiffs
allege that Martinez made at least five separate offers to settle his claim
within the limits of the Policy, which the Infinity Parties rejected.
Plaintiffs allege that Infinity had sufficient information to understand that
if Martinez’s claims were tried to a jury, there was a substantial likelihood
that Martinez would obtain a judgment far in excess of the Policy’s coverage.
 
            After
a jury trial in the personal injury action, the court entered judgment in favor
of Martinez in the amount of $7,261,457.67. The judgment states that it is
against “Defendants Jose Humberto Carranza Lopez and David Sanchez dba Apple
Markets, Inc. jointly and severally.” Apple Markets and Lopez appealed the
judgment.
 
            While
appeal was still pending, Plaintiff filed this action on December 5, 2023. The
operative complaint is now the FAC, filed against Ford Walker, the Infinity
Parties, and Kemper Corporation (“Kemper”). The FAC raises claims for (1)
breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing (against the Infinity
Parties and Kemper); (2) violation of Civil Code, section 2860 (against the
Infinity Parties); and (3) negligence (against Ford Walker”).
 
            The
Infinity Parties demurred to the first and second causes of action in the FAC
on March 22, 2024. Plaintiff filed an opposition. The Infinity Parties filed a
reply.
 
            During
the pendency of the demurrer, the Infinity Parties reached a settlement with
the plaintiff in the underlying action. As a result of this, the Infinity
Parties in their reply withdrew the demurrer as to the first cause of action.
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
The Court grants Plaintiffs’ requests for judicial notice as
public records. The Court denies the Infinity Parties’ request for judicial
notice of the Policy. The Court grants the Infinity Parties’ remaining requests
for judicial notice as public records.
 
Legal Standard
 
As a general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins.
Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading
alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants,
Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) The court assumes the truth
of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The only issue a demurrer is
concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of
action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
 
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be
allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335,
348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Ibid.;
Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f
there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause
of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist.
(1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).
 
Discussion
 
Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing – First Cause of
action
 
As noted above, the Infinity Parties withdrew their demurrer
as to the first cause of action. 
Accordingly, this demurrer is moot. 
 
Violation of Civil Code, Section 2860 – Second Cause of action
 
“If the provisions of a policy of insurance impose a duty to
defend upon an insurer and a conflict of interest arises which creates a duty
on the part of the insurer to provide independent counsel to the insured, the
insurer shall provide independent counsel to represent the insured unless, at
the time the insured is informed that a possible conflict may arise or does
exist, the insured expressly waives, in writing, the right to independent
counsel. An insurance contract may contain a provision which sets forth the
method of selecting that counsel consistent with this section.” (Civ. Code, §
2860, subd. (a).)
 
“For purposes of this section, a conflict of interest does
not exist as to allegations or facts in the litigation for which the insurer
denies coverage; however, when an insurer reserves its rights on a given issue
and the outcome of that coverage issue can be controlled by counsel first
retained by the insurer for the defense of the claim, a conflict of interest
may exist. No conflict of interest shall be deemed to exist as to allegations
of punitive damages or be deemed to exist solely because an insured is sued for
an amount in excess of the insurance policy limits.” (Civ. Code, § 2860, subd.
(b).)
 
Here, Plaintiff does not merely allege a failure to settle
within policy limits. Plaintiff alleges that the Infinity Parties directed Ford
Walker to appeal the judgment in the underlying action without consent from
Sanchez. The Infinity Parties then allegedly instructed Ford Walker to seek a
stay of the appeal without consent from Sanchez. A stay of the appeal would
potentially increase the interest Sanchez would eventually have to pay on the
judgment. Furthermore, the Infinity Parties took the position in the demurrer
that the filing of this action was improper while the appeal was pending.
Without addressing the merits of that argument, it is clear that, if it were
true, the stay of the appeal would further delay Plaintiff’s ability to seek
relief in this case. These facts, as alleged, sufficiently indicate that a
conflict of interest exists between Plaintiff and the Infinity Parties, at
least at the pleading stage.
 
The Infinity Parties advance a three-line argument at the
end of their demurrer that there is no private cause of action under Civil Code
section 2860.  This argument is
insufficiently supported to be a basis to sustain the demurrer.  
 
The Court therefore overrules the demurrer.