 Case Number:  23GDCV01656    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 04/26/2024 – 8:30am
Case No: 23GDCV01656
Trial Date: UNSET
Case Name: SERGIO DE ALBA SR., an individual; and RASTER VISUAL MEDIA, LLC, a
California Corporation v. MERCEDES-BENZ USA LLC, a Delaware Limited Liability
Company; and LAD-MB, LLC, a California Limited Liability Company d/b/a MERCEDES
BENZ OF LOS ANGELES, and DOES 1-10 inclusive
TENTATIVE
RULING ON MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
RELIEF REQUESTED
“Defendant,
Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC moves the Court for an order (i) compelling Plaintiff
Sergio De Alba Sr., et al to arbitrate all of his claims in accordance with the
arbitration agreement; and (ii) staying this action pending the outcome of
arbitration.
 
This motion is authorized
by the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”), 9 U.S.C. §§ 1-16, California Code of
Civil Procedure § 1281 et seq. and supported by the accompanying Memorandum of
Points and Authorities, Request for Judicial Notice and exhibits thereto,
Declaration of Ali Ameripour and exhibits thereto; any reply memorandum that
Defendant may file; all of the records on file in this action; and by such
other written and oral argument as may be presented to the Court.”
 
PROCEDURAL
Moving Party: Defendant, Mercedes-Benz USA LLC
(Defendant or MBUSA)
Responding Party: Plaintiffs, Sergio De Alba Sr. and
Raster Visual Media, LLC
Moving Papers: Motion; Ameripour Declaration
[10/13/2023-5:08pm]; Proposed Order [10/13/2023-5:08pm]; Ameripour Declaration
[10/16/2023-11:16am]; Proposed Order [10/16/2023-11:16am]; Request for Judicial
Notice
Opposing Papers: Opposition; Serrano Declaration;
Request for Judicial Notice; Evidentiary Objections
Reply Papers: Reply
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok
Correct Address (CCP §1013, §1013a, §1013b): Ok
CCP §1290.4 is not applicable.
BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs, Sergio De
Abla Sr. and Raster Visual Media LLC filed a Complaint on 08/07/2023. The
Complaint alleges three causes of action – (1) Violation of Song-Beverly Act –
Breach of Express Warranty, (2) Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of
Implied Warranty, and (3) Negligent Repair.
 
The first two causes of
action are alleged against MBUSA. The third cause of action for negligent
repair is alleged against Mercedes-Benz of Los Angeles. 
 
The instant motion
pertains to whether or not MBUSA, a nonsignatory to the California Motor
Vehicle Lease Agreement (Lease), can compel arbitration even though Plaintiffs
and non-party, Mercedes-Benz of South Bay, were the parties that signed the California
Motor Vehicle Lease Agreement that contained the arbitration provision.
 
LEGAL STANDARD – MOTION TO COMPEL
ARBITRATION
CCP
§ 1281.2, governing orders to arbitrate controversies, provides in pertinent
part:
On petition of a
party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement
to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to
arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that:
(a)  
The
right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or
(b)  
Grounds
exist for recission of the agreement.
 
(CCP
§1281.2(a)-(b).
 
Under
the Federal Arbitration Act, arbitration agreements “shall be valid,
irrevocable and enforceable, save upon such grounds that exist at law or in
equity for the revocation of a contract.” 
(9 U.S.C. § 2.) 
 
There
is a strong public policy in favor of arbitration of disputes and any doubts
concerning the scope of arbitrable disputes should be resolved in favor of
arbitration. (Moncharsh v. Heily & Blase (1992) 3 Cal.4th 1, 9
(“courts will ‘indulge every intendment to give effect to such proceedings.’”)
(quotation omitted)). (See also AT&T Mobility, LLC v. Concepcion
(2011) 563 U.S. 333, 339.)  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
MBUSA
attaches as Exhibit 2 to the Ameripour Declaration the instant Lease containing
the arbitration provision. This Lease is executed between Lessee (Raster Visual
Media LLC), Co-Lessee (Sergio De Alba Sr.), and Lessor, (Dealer - Mercedes Benz
of South Bay).
The Lease contains an arbitration provision that is
labeled as “Important Arbitration Disclosures” and provides: 
1.  
If either you or we choose, any
dispute between you and us will be decided by arbitration and not in court.
 
[…]
Any
claim or dispute, whether in contract, tort or otherwise (including any dispute
over the interpretation, scope, or validity of this lease, arbitration section
or the arbitrability of any issue), between you and us or any of our employees,
agents , successors or assigns, which arises out of or relates to a credit
application, this lease, or any resulting transaction or relationship arising
out of this lease shall, at the election of either you or us, or our successors
or assigns, be resolved by a neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court
action. Any claim or dispute is to be arbitrated on an individual basis and not
as a class action.
  
(Ameripour
Decl. ¶4, Ex. 2.)
 
Further
the arbitration provision provides: 
 
Any
arbitration under this lease shall be governed by the Federal Arbitration Act
(9 USC § 1, et seq.).
 
(Ameripour
Decl. ¶4, Ex. 2.)
 
On
the first page of the Lease, “You” is defined as the Lessee and any Co-Lessee;
and “we,” or “us” refers to the Lessor.
 
Here,
the Lessee is Plaintiff Raster Visual Media LLC, the Co-Lessee is Plaintiff
Sergio De Alba Sr., and the Lessor(Dealer) is Mercedes Benz of South Bay, who
is not a party to the instant lawsuit.

MBUSA
moves to compel arbitration under the Lease despite the fact that MBUSA is a
non-signatory to the Lease. MBUSA moves to compel arbitration under the two
theories of third party beneficiary and equitable estoppel. 
However, this Court does not find MBUSA’s arguments on
equitable estoppel and the third party beneficiary doctrine availing in light
of: (1) Ford Motor Warranty Cases (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 1324, rev.
granted, (Ford Motor Warranty Cases) (2) Montemayor v. Ford Motor Co.
(2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 958, rev. granted, (Montemayor) and (3) Kielar
v. Superior Court (2023) 94 Cal.App.5th 614, rev. granted (Kielar). 
Although MBUSA cites to Felisilda v. FCA US LLC
(2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486, this Court notes it is following Ford Motor
Warranty Cases, rev. granted. “Of course, the rule under discussion has no
application where there is more than one appellate court decision, and such
appellate decisions are in conflict. In such a situation, the court exercising
inferior jurisdiction can and must make a choice between the conflicting
decisions.” (Auto Equity Sales, Inc. v. Superior Court of Santa Clara County
(1962) 57 Cal.2d 450, 456.)
This Court finds that the Ford Motor Warranty Cases
are better reasoned and the instant set of facts distinguishable from Felisilda.
Ford Motor Warranty Cases and Montemayor adequately and
extensively explain why movant’s arguments on equitable estoppel and the third
party beneficiary doctrine are inapplicable and distinguishable in the instant
scenario. Movant here, MBUSA, is not a party to the Lease in the instant case. 
Moreover, Ford Motor and Montemayor are
Second District cases, while Felisilda is a Third District case.
[This Court notes that Ford Motor Warranty Cases,
Montemayor, and Kielar all state, “Review granted. See Cal Rules
of Court 8.1105 and 8.1115 (and corresponding Comment, par. 2, concerning rule
8.1115(e)(3).”]
Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration is DENIED.
Plaintiffs’ Objections
Plaintiffs
assert an objection to the Declaration of Ameripour ¶4, Ex. 2. The Court notes
that Ex. 2 in the Ameripour Declaration is the Lease.
The objections asserted by Plaintiffs are: 1) Lacks
foundation and personal knowledge; 2) Irrelevant and more misleading than
probative; 3) Improper lay opinion; 4) Hearsay; 5) Authentication; 6)
Speculative and Prejudicial; and 7) This declaration improperly assumes facts
and is inadmissible speculation and conclusions.
Plaintiffs’ Objections are OVERRULED.
Request for Judicial Notice by Plaintiffs
Under
Evidence Code § 452:  
Judicial notice
may be taken of the following matters to the extent that they are not embraced
within Section 451:
(a) The
decisional, constitutional, and statutory law of any state of the United States
and the resolutions and private acts of the Congress of the United States and
of the Legislature of this state.
(b) Regulations
and legislative enactments issued by or under the authority of the United
States or any public entity in the United States.
(c) Official
acts of the legislative, executive, and judicial departments of the United
States and of any state of the United States.
(d) Records
of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record of the United States
or of any state of the United States.
(e) Rules of
court of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record of the United
States or of any state of the United States.
(f) The law
of an organization of nations and of foreign nations and public entities in
foreign nations.
(g) Facts and
propositions that are of such common knowledge within the territorial
jurisdiction of the court that they cannot reasonably be the subject of
dispute.
(h) Facts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.
 
(Ibid..)
 
Under Evidence Code 453:
 
The trial court
shall take judicial notice of any matter specified in Section 452 if a party
requests it and:
(a) Gives
each adverse party sufficient notice of the request, through the pleadings or
otherwise, to enable such adverse party to prepare to meet the request; and
(b) Furnishes
the court with sufficient information to enable it to take judicial notice of
the matter.
 
(Ibid.)
 
Plaintiffs request judicial notice of: 
1. The Appellate Court’s Opinion, in Martha Ochoa
v. Ford Motor Company (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 1324, affirming the Trial
Court’s Order denying Defendant Ford Motor Company’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration is attached hereto as Exhibit 1. 
2. The Appellate Court’s Opinion, in Mark Kielar v.
Hyundai Motor America (Case No. C096773; Superior Court No. S-CV-0048230)
Certified for Publication dated August 16, 2023, that the Trial Court erred in
ordering arbitration is attached hereto as Exhibit 2. 
3. The Ninth’s Circuit, February 12, 2022, Opinion, in
Ngo v. BMW of North America, LLC et al., (9th Cir. 2022) 23 F.4th 942.
attached hereto as Exhibit 3.
Plaintiffs’ requests for judicial notice are GRANTED.
Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice
Defendant
requested judicial notice of Plaintiff’s Complaint filed on or about August 7,
2023 attached to the Ameripour Declaration at Exhibit 1. 
Defendant’s request for judicial notice is GRANTED.
 
 
 
 
 