 Case Number:  24STCV09146    Hearing Date:   December 2, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior  Court of California County of Los Angeles   DEPARTMENT  17   TENTATIVE  RULING      EAST    WEST BANK              vs.   VALENTINA    PAPAZIAN, et al.        Case No.:     24STCV09146         Hearing    Date:  December 2, 2024         Plaintiff’s  motion for reconsideration is DENIED.    On 4/11/2024,  Plaintiff East West Bank (Plaintiff) filed suit against Valentina Papazian,  Takuhi Papazian, Arshavir Khachikian, Gevork Papazian, and Hagop Papazian  (collectively, Defendants) filed a complaint for unlawful detainer.     On 11/6/2024,  Plaintiff’s motion for terminating sanctions was denied without prejudice.                On 11/12/204, Plaintiff moved for reconsideration.    Discussion                Plaintiff moves for reconsideration, arguing that the  Court did not address Plaintiff’s request for issue or evidence sanctions, nor  did it consider its request for an order compelling further responses to  Plaintiff’s written discovery requests.               However, first, the Court considered all aspects of  Plaintiff’s request and denied the motion without prejudice. An order to compel  issue or evidentiary sanctions was inappropriate at this stage in the  litigation, given the severity of those sanctions and the fact that there had  never been an OSC re: contempt for failure to comply. Similarly, a motion to  compel further was not adequately briefed as Plaintiff’s motion did not include  a separate statement setting forth the inadequacy of any responses. In fact,  given that no responses had been received, the Court could not have ordered  further responses. Rather, the Court could only find Defendants in contempt for  their failure to provide initial responses.    A motion for  reconsideration cannot simply ask the Court to “reevaluate” or “reanalyze”  pre-existing factual and/or legal issues and/or arguments previously made. (See  Crotty v. Trader (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 765, 771.) The Court considered all  submitted moving papers when reaching its 11/6/2024 ruling. Accordingly, the  Court may not properly reevaluate its substantive decision, unless there are  some new facts or law which would warrant such reconsideration. Plaintiff has  not identified any applicable new facts or law.    Based on the  foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for reconsideration is denied.    It is so ordered.    Dated:  December     , 2024                                                                                                                                                                Hon. Jon R.  Takasugi    Judge of the  Superior Court       Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must  send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org  by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court  website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits  on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must  identify the party submitting on the tentative.   If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this  tentative as the final order.  If the department  does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the  tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed  off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)  633-0517.       Superior
Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los Angeles DEPARTMENT
17 TENTATIVE
RULING 


EAST
  WEST BANK 
  
         vs.
 
VALENTINA
  PAPAZIAN, et al. 
  


 Case No.: 
  24STCV09146 
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  December 2, 2024


  Jacob O.
Partiyeli’s motion to be relieved as counsel as to
Gevork Papazian is DENIED.   Legal Standard Motions to withdraw are routinely
granted if made in the proper form and presented with proper notice. The court
may issue an order allowing an attorney to withdraw from representation, after
notice to the client.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 284(2).)  Discussion  Jacob O.
Partiyeli brings a motion for relief as counsel as to Defendant Gevork Papazian.
  The only explanation provided for the motion
is “[t]here has been a breakdown in client representation, which makes it
impossible for our firm to proceed with this case and to act in the best
interest of the Defendant (Partiyeli Decl.) Mr. Partiyeli offers no further
explanation as to the nature of the breakdown, or details about when this breakdown
first arose.  As such, the Court has no basis for
determining whether or not Mr. Partiyeli acted with diligence in moving to be
relieved as counsel. Given the lack of support for Mr. Partiyeli’s motion, and
the clear prejudice that would result to Defendant if counsel was relieved on
the eve of trial, the Court must conclude that the motion be denied.              The
motion is DENIED.  It is so ordered.  Dated:  December   
, 2024                                                                                                                                                              Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court   Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.    
    





















































































 