  Case Number:  24STCV02729    Hearing Date:   December 2, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



DANIEL MOLINA 
  
        
  vs.
 
ENRICH ESTATE LLC, et al. 
  


 Case
  No.:  24STCV02729    
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 2, 2024




 
 
            Cross-Defendants’
demurrer is OVERULED.  
 
            Cross-Defendants’
motion to strike is GRANTED. 
 
            On
2/1/2024, Plaintiff Daniel Molina (Plaintiff) filed suit against Enrich Estate,
LLC and Jiayu Zheng (collectively, Defendants), alleging: (1) damage to real property;
(2) trespass; (3) negligence (4) negligence per se; (5) negligent hiring,
supervision, or retention, and (6) intrusion into private affairs.  
 
            On
8/28/2024, Defendant/Cross-Complainant Enrich Estate LLC (EE or
Cross-Complainant) filed a cross-complaint (XC) against Daniel and Maria Molina
(the Molinas or Cross-Defendants), alleging: (1) trespass; (2) private
nuisance; and (3) declaratory relief. 
 
            On
10/3/2024, Cross-Defendants demurred to the Cross-Complainant’s XC.
Cross-Defendants also moved to strike portions of the XC. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Cross-Defendants
argue that the XC’s claims are insufficient plead and uncertain.  
 
            As
for the first cause of action for trespass, Cross-Defendants argue that
“Cross-Complainant has not sufficiently pleaded facts to establish its
ownership or control of the property at the time of the alleged trespass.”
(Motion, 7: 17-18.) However, by Cross-Defendants own admission,
Cross-Complainants alleged that they purchased the Subject Property (XC ¶ 7).
While it is true that Cross-Complainant does not allege specific dates as to
the events taking place, a trespass cause of action is not subject to
heightened pleading standards. 
 
In order to
allege trespass, Cross-Complainant must plead: “(1) the plaintiff’s ownership
or control of the property; (2) the defendant’s intentional, reckless, or
negligent entry onto the property; (3) lack of permission for the entry or acts
in excess of permission; (4) harm; and (5) the defendant’s conduct was a
substantial factor in causing the harm.” (Ralphs Grocery Co. v. Victory
Consultants, Inc. (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 245, 261-262.) 
 
While
Cross-Defendants may contend that Cross-Complainants’ facts fail, in fact, to
establish ownership at the relevant times, this is a factual determination not
properly decided at this stage. Rather, it is sufficient for Cross-Complainant
to allege it purchased the Subject Property (and thus was the owner and in
control of the Subject Property), and that claims giving rise to this action
arose in the subsequent period of construction following their purchase. (See
XC ¶¶ 7-12.) 
 
As for the
second cause of action for private nuisance, a private nuisance includes
“[a]nything which is injurious to health, including, but not limited to, the illegal
sale of controlled substances, or is indecent or offensive to the senses, or an
obstruction to the free use of property, so as to interfere with the
comfortable enjoyment of life or property.” (Civ. Code, § 3479.) To prevail on
an action for private nuisance, a plaintiff must first prove an interference
with the plaintiff’s use and enjoyment of his or her property. (San Diego
Gas & Electric Co. v. Superior Court (1996) 13 Cal.4th 893, 938.)
Second, “the invasion of the plaintiff’s interest in the use and enjoyment of
the land [must be] substantial, i.e., that it cause[s] the plaintiff to suffer
‘substantial actual damage.’ ” (Ibid.) Third, “ ‘[t]he interference with
the protected interest must not only be substantial, but it must also be
unreasonable’ [citation], i.e., it must be ‘of such a nature, duration or
amount as to constitute unreasonable interference with the use and enjoyment of
the land.’ ” (Ibid.; accord, Mendez v. Rancho Valencia Resort
Partners, LLC (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 248, 262–263.) Additionally, the
seriousness of the harm must outweigh the public benefit of the defendant’s
conduct. (See California Civil Jury Instructions (CACI) 2021, 2022.)
 
Here,
Cross-Defendants contend that Cross-Complainant cannot establish a claim for
private nuisance because it has not alleged sufficient facts to show that it
owned the Enrich Estate Property at the time that the alleged nuisance
occurred. However, as set forth above, the Court disagrees and finds sufficient
facts have been plead at the pleadings stage to show ownership during the
relevant time period. Moreover, Cross-Complainant’s allegation that
Cross-Defendants’ conduct “is so serious that it outweighs any public benefit
of Cross-Defendants’ conduct” is sufficient at the pleadings stage. (XC ¶ 22.)
 
Finally, as
for the third cause of action for declaratory relief, Cross-Defendants argue
that this claim fails because the first two causes of action are insufficiently
plead. Given the conclusion that both causes of action are sufficiently plead,
this contention fails. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Cross-Defendants’ demurrer is overruled. 
 
Motion to Strike 
            
Cross-Defendants
argue that Cross-Complainants’ request for attorney fees should be struck. 
 
California
law requires express authorization, by statute or contract, for an attorney
fees award to the prevailing party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1021.)
 
Here,
Cross-Complainant seeks attorney fees pursuant to CCP section 1021.5, which
provides: 
 
Upon motion,
a court may award attorneys' fees to a successful party against one or more
opposing parties in any action which has resulted in the enforcement of an
important right affecting the public interest if: 
 
(a) a
significant benefit, whether pecuniary or nonpecuniary, has been conferred on
the general public or a large class of persons, 
 
(b) the
necessity and financial burden of private enforcement, or of enforcement by one
public entity against another public entity, are such as to make the award
appropriate, and 
 
(c) such fees
should not in the interest of justice be paid out of the recovery, if any. With
respect to actions involving public entities, this section applies to
allowances against, but not in favor of, public entities, and no claim shall be
required to be filed therefor, unless one or more successful parties and one or
more opposing parties are public entities, in which case no claim shall be
required to be filed therefor under Part 3 (commencing with Section 900) of
Division 3.6 of Title 1 of the Government Code. 
 
(CCP §
1021.5.)
 
Of note, CCP section
1021.5, otherwise known as the “private attorney general doctrine,” requires
that the primary effect of this statutory fee provision be one which impacts
the general public interest. “A decision which has as its primary effect the
vindication of the litigant's personal rights is not one which brings into play
the attorney fees provisions of [Code of Civil Procedure] section 1021.5."
(In re Head (1986) 42 Cal.3d 223, 228.) Indeed, there needs to be some
relationship between public safety concerns and the present lawsuit. (Graham
v. DaimlerChrysler Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 553, 598.)
 
Here, the
Court agrees that Cross-Complainant has not plead any facts which could
indicate that it is acting as a “private attorney general” for any cause of
action which would be in the general public interest. Indeed,
Cross-Complainant’s causes of action for trespass and private nuisance are
private, and there is no specific public interest pleaded in the
Cross-Complaint. If Cross-Complainant later establishes a basis for seeking
attorney fees pursuant to section 1021.5 it may do so. However, at this time,
there are no facts alleged which could show an entitlement to attorney fees
under CCP section 1021.5.
 
Based on the
foregoing, Cross-Defendants’ motion to strike is granted. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  December   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 