 Case Number:  24STCV10053    Hearing Date:   December 2, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



SAVANNAH
  DANIELLE GONZALEZ 
                           
         vs.
 
SINGH
  LAKHWINDER, et al. 
 
                                         
  Defendants. 
 


 Case No.: 
  24STCV10053
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  December 2, 2024



 
Defendant’s
motion to quash is GRANTED.  
 
            On
4/19/2024, Plaintiff Savannah Danielle Gonzalez (Plaintiff) filed suit against
Singh Lakhwinder and Sahib Transport, Inc. alleging (1) negligent operation of
a motor vehicle; (2) general negligence. 
 
            On
8/30/2024, Defendant Sahib Transport, Inc. (Defendant) moved to quash service
of summons and dismiss this action. 
 
            The
motion is unopposed. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant
argues that it was improperly served in this action, and that it has no
involvement. 
 
            In
support, Defendant submitted evidence that: 
 
-        
1) Per the vehicle registration
Plaintiff provided for the truck at issue, the SAHIB TRANSPORT INC company
involved is based in New Jersey, to which the this moving had no connection
whatsoever
 
-        
Defendant here has not owned, or has
any connection with the truck that was involved in this lawsuit.
 
-        
Defendant did not employ nor hired a
person named "Singh Lakhwinder" that is named in Plaintiff's lawsuit
as the driver of the truck at issue 
 
-        
Per the registration document for the
truck at issue, it identities the USDOT # for the truck at issue as USDOT #
3168136 for SAHIB TRANSPORT INC in New Jersey, and provided the following link
regarding the USDOT # 3168136 that is registered to SAHIB TRANSPORT INC in New
Jersey. 
 
(Motion, Exh. A.) 
 
Moreover,
Defendant notes that rather than serve the Summons on this moving party's Agent
for Service of Process listed with the Secretary of State, or its officer,
general manager, etc., Plaintiff purportedly served the Summons on "John
DOE.” (See CCP §416.10, subds. (a), (b). 
 
In sum,
Defendant has submitted evidence that the entity named in the Complaint, and
purportedly served, was not involved in the accident, nor owned the truck at
issue, nor employed or hired the driver at issue. Moreover, under CCP sections
416.10(a) and §415.95(b), "the person to be served” is the
"registered agent for service of process". The registered agent for
service for this moving party was not "John Doe," but Amarpreet Singh
who was not served. 
 
Once service
is challenged by way of a motion to quash, plaintiffs carry the burden of
proving the validity of service. (Dill v. Berquist Construction Co.
(1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1439- 40.) Here, Plaintiff has not submitted
evidence to rebut Defendant’s substantial evidence indicating invalid service.
The Court takes Plaintiff’s failure to oppose as a concession to the motion on
the merits. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s motion to quash is granted.  
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  December   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 