 Case Number:  22STCV39533    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  JUSTIN BIGGERS, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  RALPHS GROCERY COMPANY, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV39533  [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING WITHOUT PREJUDICE MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  December 7, 2023  Plaintiff, Justin Biggers (“Plaintiff”) attorney of record Khashayar Eshraghi, Esq. (“Eshraghi”), moves to be relieved as counsel contending relief is necessary because Plaintiff is unresponsive to attempts to obtain his verifications for overdue discovery, as well as other pertinent info sought by Defendant. Plaintiff was informed of the importance of these deadlines but has remained uncooperative. Counsel filed proof of service of the moving papers on Plaintiff and Defendants.  The motion is denied without prejudice for a couple reasons:  First, the attorney of record for Plaintiff is Daniel Azizi, Esq., not Eshraghi. Unless a Notice of Change of Handling Attorney is filed, Daniel Azizi, Esq. should be the individual moving to be relieved as counsel.    Second, Eshraghi declares the moving papers were served on Plaintiff via mail at Plaintiff’s last known address, which Eshraghi confirmed by hiring an investigative service for the purposes of locating his current address. However, no information on this “investigative service” was provided, nor any information on how that service was able to verify the address was current. The Court requests further detail on this matter, should a new motion be filed.    Moving Counsel is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 6th day of December 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court    