 Case Number:  22STCV14248    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  EDUARDO GALENO, Plaintiff(s), vs.  PACIFIC MECHANICAL CONTRACTOR, ET AL., Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) Case No.: 22STCV14248  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m. December 7, 2023   Plaintiff Eduardo Galeno (“Plaintiff”) attorney of record, Tofer & Associates and its attorney Sara Martinez, Esq. (“Counsel”), moves to be relieved as counsel contending relief is necessary because Counsel has been unable to contact Plaintiff and there is now a conflict of interest.     Counsel has attached a proof of service demonstrating service of the motion, declaration, and proposed order on Plaintiff and Defendant.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(d).)    Counsel declares she was able to confirm Plaintiff’s current address by email and by FedEx Express Tracking Number. On May 11, 2023, Counsel’s office contacted North Kern State Prison and confirmed Plaintiff was incarcerated at that facility. Subsequently, Counsel was informed that Plaintiff had been transferred to the CTS Facility State, located at Soledad Prison Road, Soledad, CA 93960, and mailed the moving papers to the there. Thereafter, on September 22, 2023, Counsel was informed that Plaintiff had been transferred once more and was being held at Present Valley State Prison. Counsel mailed the moving papers to Present Valley State Prison, and the FedEx Tracking indicated delivery on September 27, 2023.   The motion is unopposed and granted; the ruling is effective upon filing proof of service of the final order. Trial is currently set for August 26, 2024. Therefore, there is sufficient time for Plaintiff to seek other counsel or otherwise prepare prior to trial.   Moving Counsel is ordered to give notice.  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 6th day of December 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court    