 Case Number:  23LBCV01809    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  S25 Procedural BackgroundOn September 21, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a complaint against Defendants America Honda Motor, Co., Inc. and Does 1 to 50, alleging five causes of action: (1) Violation of Civil Code Section 1793.2(d); (2) Violation of Civil Code Section 1793.2(b); (3) Violation of Civil Code Section 1793.2(a)(3); (4) Breach of Express Written Warranty; and (5) Breach of the Implied Warranty of Merchantability. The complaint asserts that on September 11, 2022, Plaintiffs leased a 2022 Honda Pilot vehicle identification number 5FNYF6H64NB066055 (“Subject Vehicle”) and that defects and/or nonconformities to the warranty manifested themselves in the vehicle, but Defendant failed to fix them. (Compl., ¶¶ 6-12, 14, 15.) On November 1, 2023, Defendant filed an answer.On November 1, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the instant motion to compel further responses to Plaintiffs’ Request for Production of Documents, Set One. On November 20, 2024, Defendant filed an opposition. On November 22, 2024, the Court continued the instant motion hearing to December 10, 2024. (November 22, 2024 Notice Re: Continuance of Hearing and Order.) On November 26, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a reply and supplemental declaration.Legal Standard“On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further response to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following apply: (1) A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete. (2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive. (3) An objection in the response is without merit or too general.” (Code Civ. Proc., 2031.310, subd. (a).) The court shall impose a monetary sanction against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (h).) A court has discretion to fix the amount of reasonable monetary sanctions. (Cornerstone Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit Healthcare Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 771.)Meet and ConferThe meet and confer requirements have been satisfied.Tentative RulingPlaintiffs move to compel further responses Plaintiffs’ Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, Nos. 16, 21, 22, 25, 26, 32 and 42 is denied.Request No. 16 asks for all documents concerning or relating to any internal analysis or investigation by Defendant or on Defendant’s behalf regarding the ENGINE DEFECT in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE. The request is DENIED, in part. Plaintiffs’ definition in their Requests for Production of Document, Set One, for ENGINE DEFECT is overly broad and vaguely characterized.Request No. 21 asks for all documents concerning or relating to any fixes for ENGINE DEFECT in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE. The request is DENIED. Plaintiffs’ definition in their Requests for Production of Document, Set One, for ENGINE DEFECT is overly broad and vaguely characterized.Request No. 22 asks for all documents related to any technical service bulletin, or in the process of being issued, for vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE. The Court finds that the supplemental response is sufficient as the response states Defendant will produce the requested production in whole and all documents in the requested category that are in the possession, custody or control of Defendant, subject to and without waiving Defendant’s earlier objections. Request No. 22 is DENIED.Request No. 25 asks for all documents related to any Campaign, or in the process of being issued, for vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE. The Court finds that the supplemental response is sufficient as the response states Defendant will produce the requested production in whole and all documents in the requested category that are in the possession, custody or control of Defendant, subject to and without waiving Defendant’s earlier objections. Request No. 25 is DENIED.Request No. 26 asks for all documents related to any warranty extension that has been issued, or in the process of being issued, for vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE. The Court finds that the supplemental response is sufficient as the response states Defendant will produce the requested production in whole and all documents in the requested category that are in the possession, custody or control of Defendant, subject to and without waiving Defendant’s earlier objections. Request No. 26 is DENIED.Request No. 32 asks for all documents relied by Defendant in support of Defendant’s contention that it was under no obligation to replace or repurchase the SUBJECT VEHICLE. The Court finds that the supplemental response is sufficient as the response states Defendant will produce the requested production in whole and all documents in the requested category that are in the possession, custody or control of Defendant, subject to and without waiving Defendant’s earlier objections. The Court also finds that certain documents may be protected by attorney-client privilege as Defendant indicated in its initial objection-only response. Request No. 32 is DENIED.Request No. 42 asks for all documents which evidence Defendant’s organizational charts of people within Defendant’s customer service call center or prelitigation department. The Court finds that the supplemental response is sufficient as the response states Defendant will produce the requested production in whole and all documents in the requested category that are in the possession, custody or control of Defendant, subject to and without waiving Defendant’s earlier objections. Request No. 42 is DENIED.Plaintiffs’ counsel does not seek monetary awards in connection with the instant motion. Accordingly, the Court will not award monetary sanctions.