 Case Number:  24LBCV0118    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  S25 Defendant Simon Vidana’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff Bryana Garcia’s Responses to Defendant’s Form Interrogatories, Set One, and Request for Monetary SanctionsBackgroundOn June 6, 2024, Plaintiffs Maria Hernandez and Bryana Garcia (“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Defendants Simon Vidana, Sky Distribution Express, Inc and Does 1 to 100, alleging a motor vehicle negligence cause of action. Plaintiffs allege that incident occurred on June 13, 2022 at Anaheim Street at the intersection with Watson Avenue in the City of Wilmington, California. (Compl., at p. 4.) On August 2, 2024, Defendants Simon Vidana and Sky Distribution Express, Inc. (“Defendants”) filed an answer.On November 6, 2024, Defendant filed the instant motion to compel Plaintiff’s Responses to Defendant’s Form Interrogatories, Set One, and request for monetary sanctions. As of December 4, 2024, no opposition has been filed.Legal StandardIf a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to respond at all, the propounding party’s remedy is to seek a court order compelling answers thereto. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290.) All that needs to be shown is that the discovery was properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been served. The moving party is not required to show a reasonable and good faith attempt to resolve the matter informally before filing this motion. A motion to compel initial discovery responses need not show good cause, meeting and conferring, or timely filing, and need not be accompanied by a separate statement. (See Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pac. Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 404.) The failure to timely respond also waives all objections.¿¿Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290, subd. (c), provides that, "[t]he court shall impose a monetary sanction . . . against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust." Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010, subd. (d), provides that a misuse of the discovery process is failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery. Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010, subd. (h), states that a misuse of the discovery process includes making or opposing, unsuccessfully and without substantial justification, a motion to compel or limit discovery. A court may impose a monetary sanction against a party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process or any attorney advising such conduct under Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (a). A court has discretion to fix the amount of reasonable monetary sanctions. (Cornerstone Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit Healthcare Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 771.)DiscussionIn the instant motion, Defendant states that Defendant’s Form Interrogatories, Set One, was served on Plaintiff on August 2, 2024, with responses due on September 4, 2024. (Pak Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A1.) On September 12, 2024, Defendant inquired as to the status of discovery and the parties agreed to extend the due date without objections for three weeks, with the new due date of October 8, 2024 for Plaintiff to respond. (Pak Decl., ¶ 3, Exs. B-C.) Defendant states that no responses have been served and received as of the date of filing the instant motion. (Pak Decl., ¶ 3.)No opposition has been filed.Tentative RulingThe instant motion is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to provide verified and objection-less responses to Defendant’s Request for Form Interrogatories, Set One, within 15 days from the date of this order.At oral argument, if Plaintiff’s counsel provides adequate explanation as to the failure to respond to this discovery, the Court will not impose monetary sanctions, however, continued failure to respond to discovery by Plaintiff may result in future monetary sanctions.Defendant Simon Vidana’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff Maria Hernandez’s Responses to Defendant’s Form Interrogatories, Set One, and Request for Monetary SanctionsBackgroundOn June 6, 2024, Plaintiffs Maria Hernandez and Bryana Garcia (“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Defendants Simon Vidana, Sky Distribution Express, Inc and Does 1 to 100, alleging a motor vehicle negligence cause of action. Plaintiffs allege that incident occurred on June 13, 2022 at Anaheim Street at the intersection with Watson Avenue in the City of Wilmington, California. (Compl., at p. 4.) On August 2, 2024, Defendants Simon Vidana and Sky Distribution Express, Inc. (“Defendants”) filed an answer.On November 6, 2024, Defendant filed the instant motion to compel Plaintiff’s Responses to Defendant’s Form Interrogatories, Set One, and request for monetary sanctions. As of December 4, 2024, no opposition has been filed.Legal StandardIf a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to respond at all, the propounding party’s remedy is to seek a court order compelling answers thereto. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290.) All that needs to be shown is that the discovery was properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been served. The moving party is not required to show a reasonable and good faith attempt to resolve the matter informally before filing this motion. A motion to compel initial discovery responses need not show good cause, meeting and conferring, or timely filing, and need not be accompanied by a separate statement. (See Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pac. Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 404.) The failure to timely respond also waives all objections.¿¿Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290, subd. (c), provides that, "[t]he court shall impose a monetary sanction . . . against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust." Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010, subd. (d), provides that a misuse of the discovery process is failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery. Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010, subd. (h), states that a misuse of the discovery process includes making or opposing, unsuccessfully and without substantial justification, a motion to compel or limit discovery. A court may impose a monetary sanction against a party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process or any attorney advising such conduct under Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (a). A court has discretion to fix the amount of reasonable monetary sanctions. (Cornerstone Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit Healthcare Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 771.)DiscussionIn the instant motion, Defendant states that Defendant’s Form Interrogatories, Set One, was served on Plaintiff on August 2, 2024, with responses due on September 4, 2024. (Pak Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A1.) On September 12, 2024, Defendant inquired as to the status of discovery and the parties agreed to extend the due date without objections for three weeks, with the new due date of October 8, 2024 for Plaintiff to respond. (Pak Decl., ¶ 3, Exs. B-C.) Defendant states that no responses have been served and received as of the date of filing the instant motion. (Pak Decl., ¶ 3.)No opposition has been filed.Tentative RulingThe instant motion is GRANTED. Plaintiff Maria Hernandez is ordered to provide verified and objection-less responses to the Form Interrogatories, Set One, within 15 days from the date of this order.At oral argument, if Plaintiff’s counsel provides adequate explanation as to the failure to respond to this discovery, the Court will not impose monetary sanctions.Defendant Simon Vidana’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff Maria Hernandez’s Responses to Defendant’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Request for Monetary SanctionsBackgroundOn June 6, 2024, Plaintiffs Maria Hernandez and Bryana Garcia (“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Defendants Simon Vidana, Sky Distribution Express, Inc and Does 1 to 100, alleging a motor vehicle negligence cause of action. Plaintiffs allege that incident occurred on June 13, 2022 at Anaheim Street at the intersection with Watson Avenue in the City of Wilmington, California. (Compl., at p. 4.) On August 2, 2024, Defendants Simon Vidana and Sky Distribution Express, Inc. (“Defendants”) filed an answer.On November 6, 2024, Defendant filed the instant motion to compel Plaintiff’s Responses to Defendant’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, and request for monetary sanctions. As of December 4, 2024, no opposition has been filed.Legal StandardIf a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to respond at all, the propounding party’s remedy is to seek a court order compelling answers thereto. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290.) All that needs to be shown is that the discovery was properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been served. The moving party is not required to show a reasonable and good faith attempt to resolve the matter informally before filing this motion. A motion to compel initial discovery responses need not show good cause, meeting and conferring, or timely filing, and need not be accompanied by a separate statement. (See Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pac. Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 404.) The failure to timely respond also waives all objections.¿¿Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290, subd. (c), provides that, "[t]he court shall impose a monetary sanction . . . against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust." Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010, subd. (d), provides that a misuse of the discovery process is failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery. Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010, subd. (h), states that a misuse of the discovery process includes making or opposing, unsuccessfully and without substantial justification, a motion to compel or limit discovery. A court may impose a monetary sanction against a party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process or any attorney advising such conduct under Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (a). A court has discretion to fix the amount of reasonable monetary sanctions. (Cornerstone Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit Healthcare Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 771.)DiscussionIn the instant motion, Defendant states that Defendant’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, was served on Plaintiff on August 2, 2024, with responses due on September 4, 2024. (Pak Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A2.) On September 12, 2024, Defendant inquired as to the status of discovery and the parties agreed to extend the due date without objections for three weeks, with the new due date of October 8, 2024 for Plaintiff to respond. (Pak Decl., ¶ 3, Exs. B-C.) Defendant states that no responses have been served and received as of the date of filing the instant motion. (Pak Decl., ¶ 3.)No opposition has been filed.Tentative RulingThe instant motion is GRANTED. Plaintiff Maria Hernandez is ordered to provide verified and objection-less responses to the Special Interrogatories, Set One, within 15 days from the date of this order.At oral argument, if Plaintiff’s counsel provides adequate explanation as to the failure to respond to this discovery, the Court will not impose monetary sanctions.