 On August 30, 2023, Plaintiffs Tonia Perez, Myrical Alexiou, Latesha Silva, Antonio Winston, and Heaven Duran filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) for (1) negligence, (2) tortious breach of the warranty of habitability, (3) breach of implied warranty of habitability, (4) breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment, (5) nuisance, (6) excessive collection of rent, (7) violation of Long Beach Municipal Code § 8.101.030, and (8) intentional infliction of emotional distress.DemurrerDefendant 701 Pacific, LLC demurs to the entirety of the FAC for failure to state sufficient facts.When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context, and “treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  It is error “to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if the plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any defect identified by the defendant can be cured by amendment.”  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.¿(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)Defendant first argues that the FAC is a sham because the Complaint stated that all Plaintiffs were parties to the subject written lease, but, after Defense counsel pointed out that that was not true, Plaintiffs filed the FAC, which states, in contradictory fashion, that certain Plaintiffs were verbally approved to reside at the premises.The Court does not see this as a sham; it seems that Plaintiffs’ counsel was merely correcting an error.  Defendant next argues that the lease required written consent for any additional individuals to reside at the subject property, so only the Plaintiffs specified in the subject lease have standing.This merely raises a factual dispute.  Liberally construed, the FAC seems to allege waiver of the written consent requirement by the former owners of the property, Defendants Ned Bassin and Rosalind S. Bassin, individually and trustees of The Bassin Family Trust.Finally, Defendant argues this action is collaterally estopped because of a stipulated judgment in an unlawful detainer action relating to Plaintiff Perez and the subject property.This lacks merit because the stipulated judgment does not specifically address Plaintiffs’ habitability claims.  (See Landeros v. Pankey (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 1167, 1171 [“Although the issue of breach of warranty of habitability was raised in the answer to the prior unlawful detainer complaint, the record fails to show it was litigated and determined. The unlawful detainer was resolved by a stipulated judgment giving the landlord less than the relief prayed. The prior stipulated judgment contains no language of comprehensive settlement of all matters between the parties arising from the lease. It basically states only that the landlord shall have $300 and possession by December 1, 1992.”].)Therefore, the Demurrer is overruled.  The Request for Judicial Notice is granted.An answer is to be filed within 20 days.Motion to StrikeDefendants Ned Bassin and Rosalind S. Bassin, individually and trustees of The Bassin Family Trust, seek to strike the FAC’s references to punitive damages.Motions to strike are used to challenge defects in the pleadings not subject to demurrer.  Any party may move to strike the whole or any part of a pleading within the time allotted to respond to the pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 435(b)(1).)  The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the Court is required to take judicial notice.  (Id. § 437(a).)  The Court may strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading, and strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Id. § 436.)  An “irrelevant” matter includes any “demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.”  (Id. § 431.10(b)(3), (c); see also Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1036-1042.)Punitive damages are available when the plaintiff establishes oppression, fraud, or malice by clear and convincing evidence.  (Civ. Code § 3294(a).)  Malice means “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”  (Civ. Code § 3294(c)(1).)  In this context, despicable conduct is conduct considered “so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.”  (Scott v. Phoenix Schools, Inc. (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 702, 715, internal quotation marks omitted.)  Oppression means “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.”  (Civ. Code § 3294(c)(2).)  Fraud means “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”  (Id. § 3294(c)(3).)Under Civ. Code § 3294, a corporate entity can only be liable for punitive damages when its managing agent, officer, or director (1) directly commits malice, oppression, or fraud, (2) ratifies such misconduct by an employee, or (3) hires an employee committing such misconduct with advance knowledge of the employee’s unfitness and with a conscious disregard for the safety of others. The Motion is denied.  This is because Plaintiffs allege sufficient facts to indicate malice with regard to Defendants’ intentional failure to do repairs at the subject premises.  (See, e.g., Smith v. David (1981) 120 Cal.App.3d 101, 112.)  Moving parties to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 