 Case Number:  23AHCV01210    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  X RELIEF
REQUESTED 
Defendants move to strike and demur to
the first amended complaint.
 
Plaintiff also filed an ex parte
application for more time to prepare for the Case Management Conference and/or
trial.
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff
sued the storage facility where he rented storage units until the facility told
him to move his property out of storage.  The first amended complaint has nine causes of
action: (1) breach of contract, (2) unfair business practice, (3) breach of
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (4) physical, psychological,
and financial abuse of a disabled elder person, (5), unfair fraudulent business
practice, (6) discrimination, (7) intentional infliction of emotional distress,
(8) declaratory relief, and (9) injunctive relief.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendants’ demurrer filed against the FAC is SUSTAINED.  The motion to strike is GRANTED.
 
Plaintiff’s ex parte application is denied where there is
currently no case management conference scheduled, nor is there a trial date
scheduled.
 
LEGAL STANDARD

Demurrer
 
A general demurrer may be taken to a complaint where “[t]he
pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(e).)  A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
740, 747.)  In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial
notice.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.30(a).)  The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.  (Hahn,
supra, 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
 
Additionally, a special demurrer to a complaint may be
brought on the ground the pleading is uncertain, ambiguous, or unintelligible.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(f);¿Beresford
Neighborhood Ass’n. v. City of San Mateo¿(1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 1180, 1191.)  A demurrer based on uncertainty is disfavored
and will be strictly construed even when the pleading is uncertain in some
respects.  (Khoury v.¿Maly’s¿of
California, Inc.¿(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  A demurrers based on uncertainty are “granted
only if the pleading is so incomprehensible that a defendant cannot reasonably
respond.”  (Lickiss v. Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1125, 1135.)
 
Motion to Strike
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike a pleading or any part thereof.
 (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).)  The court may, upon a motion, or at any time
in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.  (Ibid., at § 436, subd. (a).) The court may
also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with California law, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Ibid., at § 436, subd. (b).)  An immaterial or irrelevant allegation is one
that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense; is neither
pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense; or a
demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the
complaint.  (Ibid., at § 431.10, subd.
(b).)  The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  (Ibid., at § 437.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
The FAC alleges
unfair termination of a rental contract due to Plaintiff’s status as a
homeless, disabled, and elderly individual.  The FAC alleges that Plaintiff rented
storage units on January 2, 2021, and June 1, 2021.  On April 26, 2023, Defendant Ryan Martinetz
approached Plaintiff with a notice of 30 days to vacate and notified Plaintiff
to move his property out of storage by May 31, 2023.
 
Demurrer
 
Preliminarily, the FAC
is uncertain because it does not specify which defendant or defendants each
cause of action is asserted against, and it fails to clearly articulate the
wrongful acts and their legal basis.
 
First Cause of
Action: Breach of Contract
The elements of a claim for breach of contract are: “(1) the
existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance,
(3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.”  (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011)
51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)  In addition, the
complaint must demonstrate damages proximately caused by the breach.  (St. Paul Ins. v. American Dynasty (2002)
101 Cal.App.4th 1038, 1060.)
 
The FAC attached a copy of the contract.  Attached to the FAC as Exhibit 11 is a
contract for the rental agreement for storage units #261 and #334.  The parties to the rental agreement are the
Operator (Defendant Raymond Avenue Self Storage) and Plaintiff.  Defendant Martinetz is not a party to this
contract.  The FAC alleges Defendants
breached the contract by having a non-working elevator in the facility and
unlawfully disposing of Plaintiff’s personal property by auctioning off his
items.
 
Defendants demur, arguing that the rental agreement was
between Plaintiff and Defendant Rogerson, not Defendant Martinetz, and Plaintiff
failed to allege that he performed under the agreement by paying rent.
 
Here, the FAC alleges the Operator issued a 30 day notice to
vacate, stating that the reason is because of some food that Plaintiff threw
away in the trash can.  Attached to the
FAC as Exhibit 7 is the notice to vacate.  The letter states: “According to the rules and
regulations of your rental agreement, no food or beverages are to be stored in
the units.  On April 26th you came in to
store more items in your unit, but we found food products in the trash bins we
gave you.  Therefore, we request that you
remove all of your belongs [sic] from Unit #261 & 334 by May 31, 2023.”  (FAC, Exh. 7.)  The demurrer argues that food in the trash can
attract mice and vermin and that is why Defendant Rogerson terminated Plaintiff’s
lease.  However, the FAC asserts that he
had asked for a plastic cart “that day just to throw away what I could consider
trash, or junk” and that he “did not see any post sign stating any kind of
prohibition for throwing any kind of food.”  (FAC, pp. 14-15.) 
 
Upon review of the rental agreement terms regarding food,
paragraph 23 of the rental agreement states: “If Customer is in default under
this Agreement, or for any other reason, Operator may terminate this Agreement
by giving Customer fifteen (15) days written notice.”  Paragraph 10 of the agreement limits use of
the space and facility: “The storage of food and any perishable goods is
strictly prohibited.”
 
Considering the allegations and exhibits attached to the
complaint, Plaintiff fails to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of
action for breach of contract. 
 
The demurrer to the first cause of action is SUSTAINED.
 
Second
Cause of Action: Unfair Business Practice
“ ‘By proscribing “any unlawful” business practice,
“[Business and Professions Code] section 17200 ‘borrows’ violations of other
laws and treats them as unlawful practices” that the [UCL] makes independently
actionable.’  [Citation.]  ‘An unlawful business practice under [Business
and Professions Code] section 17200 is “ ‘an act or practice, committed
pursuant to business activity, that is at the same time forbidden by law.  [Citation.]’ ” ‘ ” (Durell v. Sharp
Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1361.)
 
Here, the FAC alleges Defendant Rogerson knew that a
surprising 30 day notice to vacate would be difficult for Plaintiff and
Defendant Rogerson has experience dealing like this to obtain profit, and
Rogerson Capital Management also refused a request granting an extension to the
move-out date.  These facts do not
constitute an unlawful business practice. 
 
The demurrer to the second cause of action is
SUSTAINED.  
 
Third
Cause of Action: Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
“Under California law, every contract includes an implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing.”  (Prager University v. Google LLC (2022)
85 Cal.App.5th 1022, 1039.)  The covenant
“exists merely to prevent one contracting party from unfairly frustrating the
other party’s right to receive the benefits of the agreement actually made.”  (Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24
Cal.4th 317, 349.) 
 
Plaintiff does not allege that Defendants breached the
contract or frustrated his rights to receive the benefits of the agreement.  The FAC alleges the refusal to grant an
extension to move out, or to agree to mediate with Loyola Law School, and lack
of consideration of Plaintiff’s medical conditions, show a lack of good faith.  These allegations are insufficient to sustain
this cause of action.
 
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s third cause of action is
SUSTAINED.
 
Fourth
Cause of Action: Physical, Psychological and Financial Abuse of a Disabled
Elder Person
“The
Elder Abuse Act’s heightened remedies are available only in limited
circumstances.   plaintiff must prove, by clear and convincing
evidence, that a defendant is liable for either physical abuse under section
15610.63 or neglect under section 15610.57, and that the defendant committed
the abuse with ‘recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice.’ ”  (Winn v. Pioneer Medical Group, Inc.
(2016) 63 Cal.4th 148, 156.)  “To recover
the enhanced remedies available under the Elder Abuse Act from a health care
provider, a plaintiff must prove more than simple or even gross negligence in
the provider’s care or custody of the elder.”  (Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley
LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 405.)  “In order to obtain the Act’s heightened
remedies, a plaintiff must allege conduct essentially equivalent to conduct
that would support recovery of punitive damages.”  (Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 789.) 
 
The
FAC alleges that receiving a 30 day notice to vacate disturbed him when he read
it and has been suffering emotionally and has more symptoms which affect his
body.  He alleges he has lost a great
amount of his personal property.  However,
the FAC does not establish how the Defendant acted with recklessness,
oppression, fraud, or malice. 
 
Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action for elder abuse is SUSTAINED.
 
Fifth
Cause of Action: Unfair Fraudulent Business Practice
For the reasons stated in the second cause of action for
Unfair Business Practice, Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action for “unfair
fraudulent business practices” also fails.  The demurrer to the fifth cause of action is
SUSTAINED.
 
Sixth
Cause of Action: Discrimination
Under the Unruh Act, “[a]ll persons within the jurisdiction
of this state are free and equal . . . and no matter what their . . .
disability [or other protected characteristic] . . . are entitled to the full
and equal accommodations, advantages, facilities, privileges, or services in
all business establishments of every kind whatsoever.”  (Civ. Code, § 51; see also CACI No. 3066.)  A cause of action under Unruh consists of the
following elements: (1) the defendant denied the plaintiff access to full and
equal accommodations, advantages, facilities, privileges, or services in a
business establishment; (2) the plaintiff’s membership in a protected class was
a motivating factor for this denial; and (3) defendants’ wrongful conduct
caused plaintiff to suffer injury, damage, loss, or harm.  (See Wilkins-Jones v. County of Alameda
(2012) 859 F.Supp.2d 1039, 1048.)  A
plaintiff establishing an Unruh violation that is not also an ADA violation
must establish that the discrimination was intentional.  (Harris v. Capital Growth Investors XIV (1991)
52 Cal.3d 1142, 1172.)
 
The FAC asserts discrimination where Defendant Rogerson told
Plaintiff not to use the rear door on the second floor of the facility, even
though there was a notice on the elevator that all customers could use the rear
door because the elevator was out of service.  The FAC asserts that not being able to use the
rear door could have cost him being able to take his personal property out of
the facility.  The FAC also asserts that
the operator Rogerson was harassing and provoking Plaintiff. 
 
The allegations on the face of the complaint do not meet the
elements of a discrimination cause of action under the Unruh Act.  They do not show that Plaintiff’s membership
in a protected class was a motivating factor for this denial, or that
Defendant’s wrongful conduct caused Plaintiff to suffer injury, damage, loss,
or harm. 
 
The demurrer to the sixth cause of action is SUSTAINED.
 
Seventh
Cause of Action: Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
“ ‘ “[T]o state a cause of action for intentional infliction
of emotional distress a plaintiff must show: (1) outrageous conduct by the
defendant; (2) the defendant’s intention of causing or reckless disregard of
the probability of causing emotional distress; (3) the plaintiff’s suffering
severe or extreme emotional distress; and (4) actual and proximate causation of
the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct.” ’ ” (Vasquez
v. Franklin Management Real Estate Fund, Inc. (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 819,
832.) 
 
The FAC alleges that after receiving the notice to vacate,
he started to experience distress for what he was facing as the notice was made
with the purpose to mislead him into an unexpected situation.  It also alleges the elevator was not working
during the entire month of May, which was the month for him to vacate his
storage units, and thus he had to take his property without any help and by
using the stairs.  It also alleges some
of Plaintiff’s personal items were missing, for which the police wrote a report
about. 
 
The allegations of Defendant’s conduct, of issuing a notice
to vacate, with a facility with a nonworking elevator, do not meet the
definition of outrageous conduct by the defendant.  It also is not apparent that Defendant
intended to cause, or recklessly disregarded the probability of causing,
emotional distress.  The allegations are
insufficient to sustain a claim for intentional infliction of emotional
distress.
 
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action is
SUSTAINED.
 
Eighth
Cause of Action: Declaratory Relief and Ninth Cause of Action: Injunctive Relief
Plaintiff’s eighth and ninth causes of action fail.  “To qualify for declaratory relief under
section 1060, plaintiffs were required to show their action (as refined on
appeal) presented two essential elements: ‘(1) a proper subject of declaratory
relief, and (2) an actual controversy involving justiciable questions relating
to the rights or obligations of a party.’ ”  (Lee v. Silveira (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th
527, 546.)  “A trial court may grant a
preliminary injunction upon a showing that (1) the party seeking the injunction
is likely to prevail on the merits at trial, and (2) the ‘interim harm’ to that
party if an injunction is denied is greater than ‘the [interim] harm the
[opposing party] is likely to suffer if the ... injunction is issued.’  [citation.]”  (Integrated Dynamic Solutions, Inc. v.
VitaVet Labs, Inc. (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 1178, 1183.)
 
Here, Plaintiff does not state the basis for declaratory or
injunctive relief.  Defendants’ demurrer
to Plaintiff’s eighth and ninth causes of action is SUSTAINED.
 
Motion to Strike
Defendants
request the Court to strike Plaintiff’s request for treble damages as none of the
causes of action allow for the recovery of treble damages.  The Court finds that the FAC does not assert
the basis of the treble damages sought.  Thus,
the motion to strike is GRANTED.
 
CONCLUSION
Defendants’ demurrer filed against the FAC is SUSTAINED in
its entirety.  The motion to strike is
GRANTED.
Plaintiff is granted leave to amend the Complaint.  The Complaint must be filed within 30 days of
Defendants’ service of a notice of ruling.
The Court sets an Order to Show Cause hearing re: Amended Complaint
or Dismissal for December 18, 2024 at 11 a.m. in Department X of the Alhambra Courthouse.  If the amended complaint is filed by that time,
the matter will go off-calendar and no appearance will be necessary.Moving Parties are to give notice.
 