 Case Number:  24NNCV01992    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  X RELIEF
REQUESTED 
Defendant demurs to all nine causes of
action in Plaintiff’s complaint.
 
BACKGROUND
The
complaint alleges Defendant expressed an interest in hiring Plaintiff’s
construction company to build a house and the parties negotiated the terms and
price of the project and provided Plaintiff with a $1,000 deposit as a
demonstration of his commitment to the project. Approximately one week after
entering the contract, Defendant contacted Plaintiff to inform him that he
would not proceed with Plaintiff’s company and would award the project to a
friend instead. Six months later, Defendant decided to re-engage Plaintiff and
reaffirm his commitment. Around October 13, 2023, Defendant made his first
contractual payment to Plaintiff.  Then,
Defendant failed to make a payment per the contract and instead proposed an
alternative arrangement suggesting that Plaintiff complete sink installation
and tree removal for a certain payment but Plaintiff refused.  Defendant unilaterally cancelled the contract
and barred Plaintiff from entering the construction site. 
 
Plaintiff’s
complaint alleges (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Quantum Meruit (3) Promissory
Estoppel, (4) Unjust Enrichment, (5) Breach of The Implied Covenant of Good
Faith And Fair
Dealing, (6) Fraudulent Inducement, (7) Negligent Misrepresentation, (8)
Conversion, and (9) Unfair Business Practices – Bus. and Profs. Code section
17200.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant’s demurrer to the fifth and eighth causes of
action are SUSTAINED with leave to amend.  Defendant’s demurrer to the first, second,
third, fourth, sixth, seventh, and ninth causes of action are OVERRULED.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
A general demurrer may be taken to a complaint where “[t]he
pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.”  (Code of Civ. Proc. § 430.10(e).)  A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint states a cause of action.¿  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
740, 747.)  In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial
notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30(a).)¿
 The only issue involved in a demurrer
hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous
matters, states a cause of action.  (Hahn,
supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.)
 
DISCUSSION
Defendant demurs to
all nine causes of action in the complaint. 
 
(1) Breach of Contract 
 
The elements of a claim for breach of contract are: “(1) the
existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the
plaintiff.”  (Oasis West Realty, LLC
v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.) 
In addition, the complaint must demonstrate damages proximately caused
by the breach.  (St. Paul Ins. v.
American Dynasty (2002) 101 Cal.App.4th 1038, 1060.)
 
The
demurrer’s only argument against the first cause of action is that the
complaint does not include a copy of the contract, nor does it state the
contract terms verbatim or in substance, leaving the relevant provisions
ambiguous and uncertain as to whether they meet the formal requirements of
section 7159 of the Business and Professions Code.  Business and Professions Code section 7159
“identifies the projects for which a home improvement contract is required,
outlines the contract requirements, and lists the items that shall be included
in the contract, or may be provided as an attachment.”  (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 7159(a).)  A “home improvement contract” is defined as
follows:
 
“[A]n agreement, whether oral or
written, or contained in one or more documents, between a contractor and an
owner or between a contractor and a tenant, regardless of the number of
residence or dwelling units contained in the building in which the tenant
resides, if the work is to be performed in, to, or upon the residence or
dwelling unit of the tenant, for the performance of a home improvement, as
defined in Section 7151, and includes all labor, services, and materials to be
furnished and performed thereunder, if the aggregate contract price specified
in one or more improvement contracts, including all labor, services, and
materials to be furnished by the contractor, exceeds five hundred dollars
($500).    
 
When taking the allegations in the complaint as true, the
alleged contract does not appear to be for home improvement.  Although the complaint does not attach a
written contract, it pleads its terms regarding a payment schedule (Compl., ¶
8), and pleads that Defendant made the first payment (Compl., ¶ 11).  Plaintiff pleads facts sufficient to state a
breach of contract cause of action against Defendant.
 
The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the first cause of action.
 
(2) Quantum Meruit, (3) Promissory Estoppel, and (4) Unjust
Enrichment
 
“The elements for a claim of unjust enrichment are receipt
of a benefit and unjust retention of the benefit at the expense of another.  The theory of unjust enrichment requires one
who acquires a benefit which may not justly be retained, to return either the
thing or its equivalent to the aggrieved party so as not to be unjustly
enriched.”  (Lyles v. Sangadeo-Patel
(2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 759, 769, quotation marks and citations omitted.)  Notably, “[u]njust enrichment is not a cause
of action”; it is simply “a restitution claim.”  (Hill v. Roll International Corp.
(2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 1295, 1307; see also Melchior v. New Line
Productions, Inc. (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 779, 793 [“there is no cause of
action in California for unjust enrichment”].)
 
The elements of promissory estoppel are: (i) a clear and
unambiguous false promise; (ii) defendant’s knowledge of the falsity of the
promise; (iii) plaintiff’s reasonable and foreseeable reliance; (iv) defendant’s
failure to perform; and (v) injury to plaintiff as a result of the reliance. (Thompson
v. Int’l Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees and Moving Picture Machine
Operators (1964) 232 Cal.App.2d 446; Aceves v. U.S. Bank, NA (2011)
192 Cal.App.4th 218, 231.)
 
The demurrer argues
quantum meruit or quasi-contractual recovery is not available when the parties
have an actual agreement covering compensation.  The demurrer argues that similarly, contract
and promissory estoppel claims are mutually exclusive - promissory estoppel is
only available in the absence of a valid and enforceable contract.  Further, the demurrer argues, an unjust
enrichment claim does not lie where the parties have an enforceable express
contract. Since the complaint alleges that Plaintiff, on behalf of Da Hong
Construction, and Defendant entered into a contract, the demurrer concludes
that Plaintiff’s claims for quantum meruit, promissory estoppel, and unjust
enrichment should be dismissed.
 
The complaint alleges “Plaintiff provided the services and
materials with the expectation of payment, as explicitly agreed upon in the
Contract.  Defendant’s failure to make
the payment of $80,820 due upon the completion of the specified construction
milestone constitutes a failure to fulfill the implied promise to pay for
services rendered.”  (Compl., ¶ 28.)  Plaintiff has alleged a valid cause of action
for quasi-contract seeking restitution and unjust enrichment.  The demurrer as to the second and fourth
causes of action is OVERRULED.
 
Plaintiff alleges false promise, Plaintiff’s reliance, and
Plaintiff’s damages.  (Compl., ¶¶ 33-37.)
 Plaintiff alleges how he reasonably
relied on Defendant’s promises to his detriment.  “Plaintiff mobilized substantial resources,
including labor, materials, and equipment, to commence and continue the
construction project based on Defendant’s promises of payment as outlined in
the Contract.”  (Compl., ¶ 34.)
 
Plaintiff has alleged facts sufficient to state a cause of
action for promissory estoppel.  The
demurrer is as to the third cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
(5) Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
 
The demurrer argues
that the fifth cause of action is superfluous when it merely repeats the
allegations for breach of contract, as it does not create any additional
liability.  Defendant points to case law
that supports this position, stating that a breach of the contract may also
constitute a breach of the implied covenant, but insofar as the party’s actions
are directly actionable as a breach of a contract term, a claim that merely
realleges that breach as a violation of the covenant is superfluous.  Therefore, Defendant argues, Plaintiff failed
to allege sufficient facts.
 
Every contract contains an implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing that neither party will do anything to interfere with the
other party’s right to receive the benefits of the agreement. (Howard v.
American Nat’l Fire Ins. Co. (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 498, 528.)  The precise nature and extent of the duty
depends on the nature and purpose of the underlying contract and the parties’
legitimate expectations arising from the contract.  (Ibid.)  “A breach of the implied covenant of good
faith is a breach of the contract … and breach of a specific provision of the
contract is not … necessary to a claim for breach of the implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing.”  (Thrifty
Payless, Inc. v. The Americana at Brand, LLC (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1230,
1244.)  However, “if the allegations [of breach
of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing] do not go beyond the
statement of a mere contract breach and, relying on the same alleged acts,
simply seek the same damages or other relief already claimed in a companion
contract cause of action, they may be disregarded as superfluous as no
additional claim is actually stated.”  (Careau
& Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d
1371, 1395.)
 
Upon review of the complaint,
the Court finds that the underlying factual allegations relied upon in
Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action is identical to those alleged in his first
cause of action for Breach of Contract.  Accordingly,
the demurrer to the fifth cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
 
(6) Fraudulent Inducement
 
“A promise to do something necessarily implies the intention
to perform; hence where a promise is made without such intention, there is an
implied misrepresentation of fact that may be actionable fraud.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 638.)  To establish a claim
of fraudulent inducement, one must show that the defendant did not intend to
honor its contractual promises when they were made.  (Tenzer v. Superscope, Inc. (1985) 39
Cal.3d 18, 30.)
 
The
demurrer argues the complaint only asserts that Defendant had no intention of
fulfilling its obligations under the contract, but the complaint itself
contradicts this by acknowledging that the defendant complied with all
obligations until the seventh progress payment.  Defendant argues Plaintiffs fail to present
any factual basis suggesting that Defendant lacked intent to perform the
contractual promises when the contract was entered into.  
 
The demurrer to the sixth cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
(7) Negligent Misrepresentation
 
Negligent misrepresentation is a form of deceit, the
elements of which consist of (1) a misrepresentation of a past or existing
material fact, (2) without reasonable grounds for believing it to be true, (3)
with intent to induce another’s reliance on the fact misrepresented, (4)
ignorance of the truth and justifiable reliance thereon by the party to whom
the misrepresentation was directed, and (5) damages.  (Fox v. Pollack (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d
954, 962.)
 
The demurrer asserts Plaintiffs fail to allege any specific
facts indicating how Defendant knew there would be a dispute regarding
performance prior to entering into the agreement with Plaintiffs or what
specific representations Defendant made that are alleged to be false and
misleading.
 
The complaint alleges (1) throughout the negotiation and
execution of the contract, Defendant made specific representations to Plaintiff
regarding his intention and ability to pay for the construction services and
materials as per the agreed payment schedule, (2) Defendant either knew or
should have known that he would not fulfill the payment obligations, (3)
Defendant intended for Plaintiff to rely on these representations in deciding
to enter into the Contract and commence work, (4) Plaintiff justifiably relied
on Defendant’s representations in entering into the Contract and performing the
construction work, and (5) Plaintiff has suffered significant financial harm
and operational disruption—incurring substantial costs for labor, materials,
and other expenses necessary to fulfill his obligations under the contract.  (Compl., ¶¶ 61-62, 64-66.) 
 
The demurrer as to the seventh cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
(8) Conversion
 
Conversion is the wrongful exercise of dominion over the
property of another.  (Lee v. Hanley
(2015) 61 Cal.4th 1225, 1240.)  The
elements of a conversion claim are: (1) plaintiff’s ownership or right to
possession of the property; (2) defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act or
disposition of property rights; and (3) damages.  (Ibid.)
 
The demurrer asserts
Defendant’s alleged failure to make an $80,820 payment upon completion of a
specified construction milestone does not constitute conversion, as there was
no taking of intangible property. 
 
In opposition,
Plaintiff argues the “non-payment was not a mere breach of contract but
amounted to Defendant asserting unauthorized control over the funds, which were
contractually and rightfully owed to Plaintiffs.”
 
Normally, money
cannot be converted.  (McKell v.
Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1491.)  But money can be the subject of a conversion
action when a specific sum capable of identification is involved.  (See SP Investment Fund I LLC v. Cattell
(2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 898, 907.)
 
The simple failure
to pay money owed does not constitute conversion, otherwise the tort of
conversion would swallow the category of contract claims based on the “mere
contractual right of payment.  (Voris
v. Lampert (2019) 7 Cal.5th 1141, 1151.)  Cases recognizing claims for the conversion of
money “typically involve those who have misappropriated, commingled, or
misapplied specific funds held for the benefit of others.”  (Id., at p. 1152.)
 
Here, this case
involves the simple failure to pay money owed.  Thus, the allegations in the complaint do not
constitute conversion.  The demurrer to
the eighth cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
 
(9) Unfair Business Practices – Bus. and Profs. Code section
17200.
 
California’s unfair competition law (“UCL”) prohibits any
unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent business act or practice.  (Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200 et seq.)  A claim may be brought under the UCL by a
person who has suffered injury in fact and has lost money or property as a
result of unfair competition.  (Bus.
& Prof. Code, § 17204).  To establish
standing under the UCL, a plaintiff must (1) establish a loss or deprivation of
money sufficient to qualify as injury in fact, i.e., economic injury, and (2)
show that the economic injury was the result of, i.e., caused by, the unfair
business practice that is the gravamen of the claim.  (See Kwikset Corp. v. Superior Court
(2011) 51 Cal.4th 310, 337.)
 
The
complaint states that the unlawful practices include, (1) failing
to make the required payment of $80,820 upon completion of the specified
construction milestone, (2) proposing an alternative payment arrangement not
contemplated by the contract and, upon Plaintiff’s refusal, unilaterally
canceling the Contract and barring Plaintiff from the construction site, (3)
making false and misleading representations to Plaintiff regarding Defendant’s
intention and ability to fulfill his payment obligations under the contract,
and (4) intentionally depriving Plaintiff of the value of the services, labor,
and materials provided for the construction project.  (Compl., ¶ 73.)
 
The
demurrer asserts “the subject contract is a home improvement
contract in which Defendant hired Plaintiff’s construction company to build a
house, and the parties negotiated the terms and price of the project (Complaint
¶6).  There is not a scintilla of
evidence that Defendant engaged in the ‘practice’ denounced by the statute.”
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff asserts that its complaint details how
Defendant issued assurances of financial stability and prompt payment that were
unfounded, which Plaintiffs relied upon to their detriment.  Further, Plaintiffs assert these actions were
part of a broader strategy to exploit the contractual relationship and
financial dealings to Plaintiffs’ disadvantage, illustrating a pattern of
conduct that could be deemed unfair and fraudulent under California law.
 
The
Court finds Plaintiff has alleged activity that could be considered unlawful,
unfair, or fraudulent.  At the very
least, Plaintiff has alleged Defendant intentionally deprived Plaintiff of the
value of the services, labor, and materials provided for the construction
project.
 
The
demurrer to the ninth cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
CONCLUSION
Defendant’s demurrer to the fifth and eighth causes of
action are SUSTAINED with leave to amend.  Defendant’s demurrer to the first, second,
third, fourth, sixth, seventh, and ninth causes of action are OVERRULED.
 
Plaintiff is to file an amended complaint as to the fifth
and eighth causes of action within 20 days of Defendants’ mailing of notice of
ruling.
 
On its own motion, the Case Management Conference is
continued to February 5, 2025 at 8:30 a.m. in Department X of the Alhambra Courthouse.  To the extent a jury trial is requested, the
parties are to post jury fees in advance of the CMC.
 
Moving Party is to give notice.
 