 Case Number:  24VECV00765    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  107 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles – Northwest District
 
DEPARTMENT 107
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



Eric
  B Halem, et al.,
  
        
  v.
 
Zinnanti
  Law Firm P.C., et al.


 Case
  No.:  24VECV00765
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: January 7, 2025_



 
Grant

I.               
BACKGROUND
 
This is a legal malpractice case.
Defendants Anthony Zinnanti (“Zinnanti”) and his firms represented Drive the Dream,
LLC, and its strategic partner Drive LA. (Complaint ¶ 1.) “Zinnanti
then directed [Drive the Dream, LLC] to hire his longtime friend and associate
Diane Goldman, Esq. to represent and sue his now former client, [Drive LA].”
(Complaint ¶ 1.) On January 26, 2023, Zinnanti was substituted out of that action.
(Complaint ¶ 2.) Later, Zinnanti “attempted to secretly report [Drive LA] and
its owner ([Plaintiff] Eric Halem, an LAPD patrolman), for the commission of
six counts of criminal insurance fraud.” (Complaint ¶ 3.) Zinnanti attempted to
retract the complaint, but the City of Los Angeles Police Department’s policy
required the complaint be fully investigated. (Complaint ¶ 4.) Zinnanti then
submitted “a written memo based on privileged atto[]rney-client information
detailing six alleged crimes committed by his former clients, (Halem and [Drive
the Dream, LLC]).” (Complaint ¶ 4.)
 
On
February 20, 2024, Plaintiffs Eric. B. Halem and EB Halem, LLC filed a
complaint against Defendants Zinnanti Law Firm P.C., Law Office of Anthony D.
Zinnanti, a Professional Law Corporation, Anthony D. Zinnanti, and Does 1-50,
alleging four causes of action for: (1) professional negligence (legal
malpractice); (2) breach of contract; (3) breach of fiduciary duty; and (4)
conversion. 
 
On
April 22, 2024, Defendants Zinnanti Law Firm P.C., Law Office of Anthony D.
Zinnanti, a Professional Law Corporation, and Anthony D. Zinnanti filed an
answer to the complaint.
 
On
November 21, 2024, Defendants Zinnanti Law Firm, P.C., and Anthony D. Zinnanti
(“Defendants”) filed a motion for leave to file a cross-complaint (the
“Motion”). On December 11, 2024, Defendants filed a supplemental memorandum of
points and authorities in support of the Motion. On December 23, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed an opposition. That same day, proposed Cross-Defendants Keith
M. Davidson and Keith M. Davidson and Associates, PLC (“proposed
Cross-Defendants”) filed a separate opposition. On December 30, 2024, Defendants
filed a reply.
 
II.            
PROPOSED
CROSS-DEFENDANTS’ OPPOSITION
 
Proposed Cross-Defendants filed a
separate opposition to the Motion. However, proposed Cross-Defendants are not
currently parties to this case.
 
Defendants argue this court should
strike proposed Cross-Defendants’ opposition because they lack standing to file
a separate opposition to the Motion. (Reply p. 5.) Defendants cite Beshara
v. Goldberg (1963) 221 Cal.App.2d 392, 395, which states: “It is elementary that a
stranger to a proceeding has no standing to interpose a motion.”  
 
Thus, proposed Cross-Defendants have
no standing to file a separate opposition and this court does not consider it.
 
III.          
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A party may file a cross-complaint asserting,
 
(a)  
Any cause of action he has against any of the parties who
filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him. Nothing in this subdivision
authorizes the filing of a cross-complaint against the plaintiff in an action
commenced under Title 7 (commencing with Section 1230.010) of Part 3.
 
(b)  
 Any cause of action
he has against a person alleged to be liable thereon, whether or not such
person is already a party to the action, if the cause of action asserted in his
cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series
of transactions or occurrences as the cause brought against him or (2) asserts
a claim, right, or interest in the property or controversy which is the subject
of the cause brought against him.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 428.10.)
“A party shall file a cross-complaint against any of the
parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or her before or
at the same time as the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 428.50(a).) “Any other cross-complaint
may be filed at any time before the court has set a date for trial.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 428.50(b).) “A party shall obtain leave of court to file any
cross-complaint except one filed within the time specified in subdivision (a)
or (b). Leave may be granted in the interest of justice at any time during the
course of the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50(c).) 
“A party who fails to plead a cause of
action subject to the requirements of this article, whether through oversight,
inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other cause, may apply to the court for
leave . . . . to file a cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time
during the course of the action. The court, after notice to the adverse party,
shall grant, upon such terms as may be just to the parties, leave . . . to file
the cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who failed to plead the
cause acted in good faith. This subdivision shall be liberally construed to
avoid forfeiture of causes of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50.)
Accordingly, when a proposed cross-complaint
is permissive, the court should grant leave to file the cross-complaint “in the
interest of justice at any time during the course of the action.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 428.50(c).) But when a proposed cross-complaint is compulsory, the
court must grant leave if the defendant “acted in good faith.” (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 426.50.)
“Except as between plaintiffs and
defendants, there is no compulsory cross-complaint in California procedure
[citation]. Rather, a cross-complaint is permissive as between co-parties and
between parties and nonparties.” (Banerian v. O’Malley (1974) 42
Cal.App.3d 604, 612.) In the reply, Defendants state they will be prejudiced if
the Motion is denied if the cross-claims are deemed compulsory. (Reply p. 11.)
Other than that, the parties do not spend much time on whether the claims are
compulsory or permissive.
Regardless, either standard appears to be
met in this case. It is in the interest of justice to grant the Motion and
Defendants appear to have acted in good-faith.
IV.          
DISCUSSION
Defendants seek leave to file a
cross-complaint against Eric B. Halem, EB Halem, LLC, Matthew Vannatter, Keith
M. Davidson, Keith M. Davidson & Associates, P.L.C., and Does 51-100, alleging
causes of action for: (1) fraud; (2) alter ego; and (3) apportionment of
damages on grounds of legal malpractice. (Motion Ex. A.) 
Zinnanti’s declaration states that:
The Cross-Complaint is material to
[Defendants’] defense of Halem’s Complaint for apportionment of damages to
Davidson due to Davidson’s legal malpractice, as alleged in the
Cross-Complaint. [Defendants] independently alleges fraud against Halem,
seeking monetary and punitive damages. The Cross-Complaint also joins Matthew
Vannatter, an individual, on a cause of action for fraud, seeking monetary and
punitive damages. The claim against Davidson is not for indemnity. The joinders
come pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure, sections 428.10 and 428.20. All
matters in the Complaint and Cross-Complaint arise from a common set of facts
to be adduced at the time for trial in this matter.
(Zinnanti Declaration ¶ 13.)
Zinnanti’s declaration explains that his
assigned counsel filed an answer on April 22, 2024, and he “was informed by his
[errors and omissions (“E&O)] carrier that Cross-Complaints were not
covered under Zinnanti’s policy.” (Zinnanti Declaration ¶ 7.) And “[f]or several months,
[Defendants’] assigned counsel refused to undertake any form of written or oral
discovery due to concerns about the limits of Zinnanti’s E&O policy.”
(Zinnanti Declaration ¶ 8.) Zinnanti was assigned new counsel on or about
August 1, 2024. (Zinnanti Declaration ¶ 9.) Defendants’ new counsel also would
not file a cross-complaint, refused to undertake discovery, failed to send a
letter of representation to Halem’s counsel, and “ultimately declared ‘You only
have $100,000 limit so there isn’t much room to do much.” (Zinnanti Declaration
¶ 9.) Zinnanti dismissed his counsel and proceeded pro se. (Zinnanti
Declaration ¶ 11.)
Plaintiffs argue this court should deny the
Motion because Defendants’ proposed claims are meritless and “[t]he proposed
cross-complaint improperly targets Plaintiffs’ protected activities under the
anti-SLAPP statute.” (Opposition p. 4.) 
Plaintiffs’
opposition states: “Under California Code of Civil Procedure section 428.50, a
party must obtain leave of court to file a cross-complaint after the answer is
filed. The moving party bears the burden of demonstrating: (1) good cause for
failing to file the cross-complaint timely; and (2) that the proposed
amendments are necessary for a fair resolution of the case. Courts may deny
leave where the amendments lack merit, cause undue delay, or impose undue
prejudice on the opposing party.”
It is not clear to the court where Plaintiffs got this standard from.  This is not
what section 428.50 says, and Plaintiffs cite no other authority.
Section
428.50 states: “(a) A
party shall file a cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the
complaint or cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as
the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint. (b) Any other cross-complaint
may be filed at any time before the court has set a date for trial. (c) A
party shall obtain leave of court to file any cross-complaint except one
filed within the time specified in subdivision
(a) or (b). Leave may be granted in the interest of justice at
any time during
the course of the action.” 

Plaintiffs cite no authority for the
proposition that this court should consider the merits of the claims Defendants
seek to assert in the cross-complaint. Plaintiffs also cite no authority for
the proposition that this court should, at this stage, conduct an anti-SLAPP
analysis. 
Plaintiffs also argue Defendants have not
demonstrated good cause for the delay in filing the cross-complaint. (Opposition
pp. 3-4.) However, Defendants provided this court with a reasonable explanation
for Defendants’ failure to file the cross-complaint at the time Defendants
filed the answer. Plaintiffs also argue that Plaintiffs will be prejudiced
because the proposed cross-complaint will expand the scope of litigation, delay
resolution of the underlying claims, and cause Plaintiffs to incur additional
legal costs. (Opposition p. 4.) However, trial in this case is not set until
October 2025, and Plaintiffs offers no persuasive reason for why allowing
Defendants to file this cross-complaint will delay resolution of the underlying
claims or cause Plaintiffs to incur costs exceeding what Plaintiffs would incur
in a separate action. Finally, Plaintiffs argue this court should deny the
Motion because Defendants can initiate a separate action. (Opposition p. 4.) However,
this court finds that it is in the interest of justice for these matters to be
resolved in a single action. 
Accordingly, this court finds that it is in the interests of
justice to permit Defendants to file the cross-complaint. 
V.             
CONCLUSION
For the foregoing reasons, this court grants Defendants’
Motion.
 
 
 
Dated: January 7, 2025
                                                                                





  