  Case Number:  24STC27370    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  107 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles – Northwest District
 
DEPARTMENT 107
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



Bahman Zakeri, 
        
  v.
 
Renov8 Builders, et
  al.
 


 Case No.: 
  24STCV27370
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: January 7, 2025



 
Tentative

(1) Sustain the demurrer and grant Plaintiffs
leave to amend; (2) Deny the motion to strike.

I.               
BACKGROUND 
 
This case involves the development of real
property located at 5754 Woodman Avenue/13656 W. Hatteras Street, Sherman Oaks,
California 91401 (the “Subject Property”). (Complaint ¶ 23.) 
In October 2023, “Zakeri and [Maurice Joseph] Abikzer
orally agreed that Zakeri would pay for the [Subject Property] and Abikzer
would pay for the construction to build condominiums.” (Complaint ¶ 20.) Abikzer
introduced Zakeri to his ex-wife, Defendant Sophia Ammar, a licensed real
estate agent. (Complaint ¶ 22.) Ammar recommended the Zakeris purchase the
Subject Property. (Complaint ¶¶ 24-25.) On or about November 14, 2023, the
Zakeris purchased the Subject Property. (Complaint ¶ 26.)
“Zakeri offered Abikzer an additional 10% of the
profits for timely completion of the condominiums” and Abizker stated he would
not pay for the construction and Zakeri would have to pay for it. (Complaint ¶
28.) Plaintiffs and Defendant Renov8 Builders then entered into a Construction
Developer Agreement (the “Construction Agreement”). (Complaint ¶ 29.) The
Construction Agreement provided that Renov8 Builders would complete
construction between July 31 and August 31, 2024, for a fixed $2,000,000 price.
(Complaint ¶ 30.)
The Zakeris made the initial $500,000 payment
under the Construction Agreement. (Complaint ¶ 32.) Later, Abikzer told the
Zakeris that it would take 2-3 years longer to build the condominiums and
recommended they build apartments instead. (Complaint ¶ 33.)  
In May 2024, Abikzer told the Zakeris “he and his
men would work three shifts a day to make up the work to complete the Project
on time if the Zakeris advanced the $500,000.” (Complaint ¶ 34.) On May 24,
2024, the Zakeris paid Abikzer an additional $500,000. (Complaint ¶ 34.)
As of the date of the complaint, the Zakeris paid
50% of the total fixed price for the construction. (Complaint ¶ 34.) The
project is past its completion deadline and assessments show the construction
is only 20% completed. (Complaint ¶ 37.) Due to Abikzer’s failure to pay
contractors and suppliers, the Subject Property has more than $70,000 in
mechanic’s liens recorded against it. (Complaint ¶ 38.) 
On October 3, 2024, the Zakeris told Abikzer they
were terminating the Construction Agreement and demanded a detailed accounting,
lien satisfaction, and a refund of unearned funds of approximately $650,000.
(Complaint ¶ 41.) Abikzer refused to provide the accounting, pay the liens, or
return the unearned funds, and blamed the failure to complete the project on
“unspecified weather delays.” (Complaint ¶ 41.) On October 15, 2024, Defendant
Milestone Design & Development Inc. recorded a $1.2 million mechanic’s lien
on the Subject Property. (Complaint ¶ 43.)
On October 18, 2024, Bahman Zakeri and Leila
Zakeri (“Plainitffs”) filed a complaint against Defendants Renov8 Builders dba
Renov8 by Milestone (“Renov8”), Milestone Design & Development Inc.
(“Milestone”), Maurice Joseph Abikzer, Sophia Ammar, Forward Studio City, Inc.
dba Keller Williams Studio City, and Does 1 to 25, alleging causes of action
for: (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of the implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing; (3) negligence; (4) theft pursuant to California Penal Code
section 496(a); (5) professional negligence; (6) fraudulent misrepresentation;
(7) negligent misrepresentation; (8) accounting; and (9) declaratory relief.
On November 20, 2024, Defendants Renov8,
Milestone, and Abikzer (collectively, “Defendants”) filed a demurrer with
motion to strike. On December 23, 2024, Plaintiffs filed oppositions to the
demurrer and motion to strike. On December 31, 2024, Defendants filed replies.
II.            
DEFENDANTS’
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
Defendants request this court take judicial notice
of the Construction Agreement, which is attached to the complaint as Exhibit 2.
“Although the existence of a document may
be judicially noticeable, the truth of statements contained in the document and
its proper interpretation are not subject to judicial notice if those matters
are reasonably disputable.” (Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp.
(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 113.) 
Defendants cite Apple Inc. v. Superior Court (2017)
18 Cal.App.5th 222, for the proposition that when “’there is no factual dispute
concerning the matter to be noticed’ and there are grounds for judicial notice,
a court may properly consider the documents’ contents when ruling on a
demurrer.” (Request for Judicial Notice p. 2.) In Apple Inc., the Court
of Appeal stated that “[w]hile the truthfulness or proper interpretation of a
judicially-noticed document is disputable, we are not persuaded that such a
dispute exists here” because “Plaintiffs did not contest or question
petitioners’ showing regarding [the matters in the document] until this writ
proceeding.” (Id. at pp. 241-242.) 
This court is not persuaded that no dispute exists
here regarding the Construction Agreement’s terms. Accordingly, this court
takes judicial notice of the existence of the Construction Agreement. But the
truth of statements in the Construction Agreement and its proper interpretation
are not subject to judicial notice.
III.          
PLAINTIFFS’
REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
Plaintiffs request this court take judicial notice
of the Mechanics Lien recorded by Milestone Design & Development, Inc. and
records from the California Department of Consumer Affairs Contractors State
License Board. (Request for Judicial Notice p 3; Ex. 1; Ex. 2.)
Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (c) permits
the court to take judicial notice of “[o]fficial acts of the legislative,
executive, and judicial departments of the United States and of any state of
the United States.” This includes taking judicial notice of a license issued by
a state agency. (See Arroyo v. Plosay (2014)
225 Cal.App.4th 279, 296 [stating a “Hospital’s license issued by the State
Department of Public Health was properly subject to judicial notice under
Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (c)[.]”].) 
Thus, this court grants Plaintiffs’ requests for
judicial notice.
IV.          
PROCEDURAL
MATTERS
 

Timeliness

“A person against
whom a complaint or cross-complaint has been filed may, within 30 days after
service of the complaint or cross-complaint, demur to the complaint or cross-complaint.”
(Code Civ. Proc., §¿430.40(a).)¿ Per California
Code of Civil Procedure section¿435, subdivision (b)(1), a motion to
strike should be filed within 30 days after service of the complaint. (See Code
Civ. Proc., § 412.20(a)(3).)¿¿ 
 
Per California Code
of Civil Procedure §¿1005, subdivision (b), moving papers should be
filed at least 16 court days before they are set for hearing, oppositions
thereto should be filed at least nine court days before the set hearing, and
replies to any oppositions should be filed at least five court days before the
set hearing. “
 
Plaintiffs served Renov8 and
Milestone by substituted service on October 21, 2024. (Proofs of Service filed
10/28/24 and 10/31/24.) Defendants filed the demurrer with motion to strike on
November 20, 2024. Accordingly, Defendants timely filed the demurrer with
motion to strike within thirty days after service.
 
The hearing on the demurrer with motion to strike
is set for January 7, 2025. The demurrer, motion to strike, and oppositions
were timely filed under section 1005, subdivision (b). However, five court days
before January 7, 2025, was December 30, 2024. Defendants filed the replies on
December 31, 2024. Thus, the replies were untimely.
 
This court exercises its discretion and considers
the replies. (See Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1300(d) (“If the court, in its
discretion, refuses to consider a late filed paper, the minutes or order must
so indicate.”)
 

Meet
     and Confer

 
California Code of Civil Procedure
section¿430.41, subdivision (a) requires parties to “meet and confer” before
the filing of a demurrer to attempt to informally resolve the objections raised
in the demurrer.¿The demurring party is required to file and serve with the
demurrer a declaration either confirming that parties were unable to resolve
the issues raised by the demurrer despite having met and conferred or that the
opposing party failed to meet and confer with the demurring party in good
faith. (Code Civ. Proc. §¿430.41(a)(3).)¿ 
¿ 
California Code of Civil Procedure §¿435.5,
subdivision (a) also requires parties to meet and confer before filing a motion
to strike.
 
Defendants’ counsel submits two declarations
stating he sent Plaintiffs’ counsel a meet and confer letter and Plaintiffs’
counsel responded that they disagreed with Defendants’ position. (Gerber
Demurrer Declaration ¶¶ 5-6; Gerber Motion to Strike Declaration ¶¶ 5-6.)
 
Accordingly, this court finds that Defendants
satisfied their meet and confer requirements.
 
V.             
DEMURRER
 

Legal Standard

As a general matter, in a demurrer
proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via
proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116
Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the
evidence or the facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc.
Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the
truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Id.)
The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it
stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 745.)¿A complaint is sufficient if it contains
“[a]¿statement¿of the¿facts¿constituting the cause of action, in ordinary and
concise language.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿425.10(a)(1).) Under this standard,
a “complaint ordinarily is sufficient if it alleges ultimate rather than
evidentiary facts.” (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531,
550.)¿
 
A party may demur to a complaint because the
complaint “does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(e).)¿ 
 

Discussion

 
i.      
Breach
of Contract
 
Defendants argue the complaint fails to state a
cause of action against Milestone because the complaint alleges the existence
of a contract between Plaintiffs and Renov8, not Plaintiffs and Milestone.
(Demurrer p. 6.) 
 
Plaintiffs argue the complaint is sufficient
because it alleges Milestone assumed the benefits and burdens of the
Construction Agreement and Milestone is bound by the Construction Agreement
because Renov8 was acting as Milestone’s agent. (Opposition to Demurrer p. 11.)

 
Generally, a plaintiff “cannot assert a
claim for breach of contract against one who is not a party to the contract.” (Tri-Continent
Internat. Corp. v. Paris Savings & Loan Assn. (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th
1354, 1359.) “Where a contract is made by an agent acting on behalf of an
undisclosed principal, a third party, upon discovering the facts of the agency,
may sue the undisclosed principal.” (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural
Materials, Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 606.) “[T]he contracting third
party may sue either the agent or the principal, but he can not sue both.” (Ikerd v. Warren T. Merrill & Sons (1999) 9 Cal.App.4th 1833, 1839, fn. 6.) 
 
In contrast, “[w]here a person is known to
be acting as the agent of a disclosed principal, the presumption is that the
principal and not the agent is to be bound.” (Bank of America National Trust
& Savings Ass’n v. Cryer (1936) 6 Cal.2d 485, 489.)
 
“The general allegation of agency is one of
ultimate fact, sufficient against a demurrer.” (Kiseskey v. Carpenters'
Trust for So. Cal. (1983) 144 Cal.App.3d 222, 230.) “[A]gency is a question
of fact for the jury." (Truhitte v. French Hosp. (1982) 128
Cal.App.3d 332, 348.)
 
The complaint alleges that “the Zakeris and Renov8
entered into a Construction Developer Agreement (the ‘Agreement’) for the
construction of a new 6-unit residence[.]” (Complaint ¶ 29.) The complaint also alleges an agency relationship
between the Defendants, stating that “Plaintiffs are informed and
believe that each of the Defendants, including the DOES 1 through 25, are and
at all material times have been the agents and servants of, and acted in
concert with, one another with respect to the acts and conduct herein alleged
and are responsible for and liable to Plaintiffs for the damages and losses
arising out of such acts and conduct.” (Complaint ¶ 15.) 
 
Defendants argue the agency allegations are insufficient
under Moore v. Regents of University of California (1990) 51 Cal.3d 120,
134, fn. 12. (Demurrer pp. 6-7.)  In Moore,
the California Supreme Court characterized the agency allegations in the
complaint as “egregious examples of generic boilerplate.” (Id.) However,
the Court also stated that “The procedural posture of this case, however, makes
it unnecessary for us to address the sufficiency of Moore’s secondary-liability
allegations.” (Id. at p. 134.) Thus, footnote 12 in Moore is
dicta. Defendants cite no other authority for the proposition a plaintiff must
allege specific factual allegations to support an agency relationship.
Moreover, “an allegation of agency is deemed an allegation of ultimate fact”
and “where alleged must be accepted as true.” (Blickman Turkus, LP v. MF
Downtown Sunnyvale, LLC (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 858, 886.) Accordingly,
Plaintiffs’ agency allegations are sufficient.
 
Citing Ikerd v.
Warren T. Merrill & Sons, supra,
Cal.App.4th at p. 1839, Defendants also argue “A party to a contract may
sue either the principal or the agent, but it cannot sue both.” (Reply p.4.)
 
It is not clear here whether Plaintiffs are
alleging Milestone was a disclosed or undisclosed principal. However, agency is
a question of fact, and Defendants cite no authority stating that, to survive a
demurrer, a party must specifically allege one theory or the other.
 
Plaintiffs also argue the complaint is sufficient
because it alleges Milestone assumed the benefits and burdens of the
Construction Agreement. (Opposition to Demurrer p. 11.) Defendants argue the
complaint is insufficient because it does not allege an assignment. (Reply p.
3.)
 
“[O]ne who accepts the benefits of a contract or
transaction is also obligated to accept the burdens thereof[.]” (Recorded
Picture Co. v. Nelson Entertainment, Inc. (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 350,
361-362.) “The general rule is that the mere
assignment of rights under an executory contract does not cast upon the
assignee the obligations imposed by the contract upon the assignor.... The rule
is otherwise, however, where the assignee assumes such obligations....
‘[W]hether there has been an assumption of the obligations is to be determined
by the intent of the parties as indicated by their acts, the subject matter of
the contract or their words.’ ... Assumption of obligations may be implied from
acceptance of benefits under the contract.” (Id.)
 
Plaintiffs allege “Renov8 applied for and obtained
the building permit for Milestone rather than for itself. In accepting the
responsibility of acting as the general contractor of record, Milestone agreed
to perform all requirements of the [Construction Agreement].” (Complaint ¶ 46.)
 
Although Plaintiffs allege Milestone accepted
responsibility by acting as general contractor and agreed to perform all
requirements, Plaintiffs have not clearly alleged an assignment or that
Milestone assumed all the obligations under the Construction Agreement. Thus,
Plaintiffs’ allegations are insufficient.
 
However, because Plaintiffs sufficiently
alleged an agency relationship, this court overrules the demurrer on this
ground.
 
ii.              
Breach
of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
 
Defendants argue the complaint fails to state a
cause of action for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing against Milestone. (Demurrer p. 7.) This court addressed whether
Plaintiffs sufficiently allege a breach of contract cause of action against
Milestone. Accordingly, this court does not address that issue further.
 
The parties dispute whether Plaintiffs may allege
causes of action for both breach of contract and breach of the implied covenant
of good faith and fair dealing. (Demurrer p. 7; Opposition to Demurrer p. 13.)
 
“[W]here breach of an actual term is
alleged, a separate implied covenant claim, based on the same breach, is
superfluous. On the other hand, where an implied covenant claim alleges a
breach of obligations beyond the agreement’s actual terms, it is invalid.” (Guz
v. Bechtel (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 327.) “Although breach of the implied
covenant often is pleaded as a separate count, a breach of the implied covenant
is necessarily a breach of contract.” (Digerati
Holdings, LLC v. Young Money Entertainment, LLC (2011) 194
Cal.App.4th 873, 885.) “Breaches of distinct contractual obligations may
properly be pleaded as separate counts.” (Id. at p. 885 fn. 6.) 
 
“A ‘breach of the implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing involves something beyond breach of the contractual duty
itself.’” (Careau & Co v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1998)
222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1394.) “If the allegations do not go beyond the statement
of a mere contract breach and, relying on the same alleged acts, simply seek
the same damages or other relief already claimed in a companion contract cause
of action, they may be disregarded as superfluous as no additional claim is
actually stated.” (Id. at p. 1395.)
 
Plaintiffs argue “the wrongful conduct
implicated by the Breach of the Implied Covenant claim is distinct from the
wrongful conduct at issue in the Breach of Contract claim. Compare Complaint
¶ 52 with Complaint ¶¶ 47, 48.”
(Opposition to Demurrer p. 13.) 
 
Paragraph 52, under the second cause of
action for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing,
states: 
 
Implied in
every contract in California is a covenant of good faith and fair dealing
pursuant to which each party impliedly promises that it will not do anything to
unfairly interfere with the right of any other party to receive the benefits of
the contract. Defendants’ conduct as alleged herein constituted a breach of the
implied covenant inherent in the Agreement.
 
Under the second cause of action for implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing, Plaintiffs cite no specific conduct,
but instead state: “Plaintiffs repeat, reallege, and incorporate all other
paragraphs as if fully set forth herein.” (Complaint ¶ 51.)
 
Paragraphs 47 and 48, under the first cause of
action for breach of contract, state:
 
Renov8 applied
for and obtained the building permit for Milestone rather than for itself. In
accepting the responsibility of acting as the general contractor of record,
Milestone agreed to perform all requirements of the Agreement.
 
Pursuant to the
Agreement, Defendants were required to build a new 6-unit residence no later
than August 31, 2024, for the fixed cost of $2 million. The Agreement specifies
that time is of the essence. As of this date, defendants have breached the
Agreement by failing to complete the construction which is only approximately
20% completed.
 
It appears that Plaintiffs are alleging the
same conduct applies to both causes of action. Thus, the causes of action are
superfluous and this court sustains the demurrer on this ground.
 
iii.            
Negligence
 
Defendants argue the complaint fails to state a
cause of action for negligence against Milestone an Abikzer because the
purported duty arises out of the Agreement, and “Milestone and Abikzer are not
parties to the Agreement[.]” (Demurrer p. 7.) Defendants further argue that “A
party may not recover in tort for the breach of duties that merely restate
contractual obligations.” (Demurrer p. 8.) 
The elements of a negligence action are: (1) a
legal duty to use due care; (2) a breach of such legal duty; and (3) the breach
was the proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury. (Ladd v. County of
San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917-918.) “[U]nder the
economic loss rule, tort recovery for breach of a contract duty is generally
barred . . . unless two conditions are satisfied. A plaintiff must first
demonstrate the defendant’s injury-causing conduct violated a duty that is
independent of the duties and rights assumed by the parties when they entered
the contract. Second, the defendant’s conduct must have caused injury to
persons or property that was not reasonably contemplated by the parties when
the contract was formed.” (Rattagan v. Uber Technologies (2024) 17
Cal.5th 1, 20.) “[C]onduct amounting to a breach of contract becomes tortious
only when it also violates a duty independent of the contract arising from
principles of tort law.” (Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543, 551.)
Here, Plaintiffs allege under the negligence cause
of action that,
By entering into
the Agreement and undertaking to act pursuant to the Agreement, as general
contractor for the work at the Property, Defendants Renov8, Milestone and
Abikzer obligated themselves to exercise reasonable care and skill in
performing their duties. Defendants agreed to exercise that degree of care,
skill, and judgment that ordinarily prudent contractors in the industry would
use under similar circumstances.
(Complaint ¶ 55.)
Accordingly, Plaintiffs allege that Defendants
owed Plaintiffs a duty under the contract but allege no other duty independent
of the contract.
Plaintiffs cite North American Chemical Co. v.
Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 765, 774, and argue that “a contract
for professional services can give rise to a negligence claim when those
services are not performed with the required standard of care.” Although North
American Chemical Co. v. Superior Court has not been expressly overruled,
this court is not persuaded it should apply North American Chemical Co. v.
Superior Court, rather than Rattagan, that states there must be a
duty independent of the contract.
Thus, this court sustains the demurrer on this
ground.
iv.            
Theft
 
Defendants argue the complaint fails to state a
cause of action for theft because “no Defendant is alleged to have received
stolen property which was, at the time of receipt, ‘stolen’” and “the claim is
not alleged with the requisite particularity.” (Demurrer p. 10.) 
 
Penal Code section 496, subdivision (a) states:
 
Every person
who buys or receives any property that has been stolen or that has been
obtained in any manner constituting theft or extortion, knowing the property to
be so stolen or obtained, or who conceals, sells, withholds, or aids in
concealing, selling, or withholding any property from the owner, knowing the
property to be so stolen or obtained, shall be punished by imprisonment in a
county jail for not more than one year, or imprisonment pursuant to subdivision (h) of Section 1170. 
 
Penal Code section 496, subdivision (c)
states:
 
Any person who
has been injured by a violation of subdivision (a) or (b) may bring an action
for three times the amount of actual damages, if any, sustained by the
plaintiff, costs of suit, and reasonable attorney's fees.
 
“Section 496(c) . . . articulates a right to
special civil remedies when a violation of section 496(a) has occurred.” (Siry
Investment, L.P. v. Farkhondehpour (2022) 13 Cal.5th 333, 346-347.) “To
prove theft, a plaintiff must establish criminal intent on the part of the
defendant beyond ‘mere proof of nonperformance or actual falsity.” (Id. at
pp. 361-362.) “This requirement prevents ‘ordinary commercial defaults’ from
being transformed into theft.” (Id. at p. 362.) “If misrepresentations
or unfulfilled promises ‘are made innocently or inadvertently, they can no more
form the basis for a prosecution for obtaining property by false pretenses than
can an innocent breach of contract.’” (Id. at 362.)
 
In Siry Investment, L.P., supra, 13 Cal.5th
at p. 361, the Court held that section 496(c) applied to the “fraudulent
diversion of partnership funds.” In that case, the defendants “created an
entity named DTLA and required the building’s tenants to pay their rent to
DTLA.” (Id. at p. 340.) “Defendants then began to improperly divert
rental income away from the limited partnership and into DTLA” and two
defendants “commenced charging personal and other nonpartnership expenses to
the partnership.”  (Id. at p.
340.) The two defendants “ensured that plaintiff remained unaware of the
underpayments by misrepresenting to plaintiff the building’s rental income and
the partnership’s expenses, effectively lying to plaintiff about what its cash
distributions should have been.” (Id.) The Court also noted that “the
record appears consistent with a conclusion that defendants acted not
innocently or inadvertently, but with careful planning and deliberation
reflecting the requisite criminal intent.” (Id. at p. 362.)
 
The complaint alleges that “Defendants violated §
496(a) by obtaining hundreds of thousands of dollars from Plaintiffs by
wrongful means, including fraud and deceit, and have withheld and wrongfully
detained such funds from Plaintiffs.” (Complaint ¶ 61.) Specifically, the
complaint alleges that in “Despite not being entitled to further payment under
the fee schedule, in May 2024, Abikzer misrepresented that the first phase had
been completed and demanded an additional $500,000 for the next phase based
upon alleged delays due to weather” and “[b]ased on Abikzer’s representations,
in good faith, and wanting to get the Project completed, the Zakeris paid
Abikzer an additional $500,000 on May 24, 2024.” (Complaint ¶ 34.) And “[a]bout
a month after receiving the $500,000 payment, Abikzer began pressuring Zakeri
for another $200,000 payment, falsely representing, among other things, that he
had already spent the entire $1 million on the Project.” (Complaint ¶ 35.) Thus,
the alleged misrepresentations here are like the misrepresentations in Siry
Investment, L.P. 
 
Plaintiffs also allege that “Abikzer extracted
payments from the Zakeris, totaling $1 million, by employing deceptive tactics
and false promises of expedited work.” (Complaint ¶ 5.) And “[i]ndependent
assessments by two construction professionals indicate that the current value
of the work in place is approximately $350,000, representing less than 20%
completion of the project.” (Complaint ¶ 37.) Plaintiffs also allege that “even
though the Zakeris have overpaid Abikzer approximately $650,000, Abikzer has intentionally
not paid contractors and suppliers, allowing mechanic’s liens to be recorded
for concrete, lumber, and labor, totaling more than $70,000.” (Complaint ¶ 38.)
Further, Plaintiffs allege that Abizker “wrongfully detained and deprived the
Zakeris of their rightful funds” and “[o]n information and belief, Abikzer has
used the Zakeris’ funds for purposes other than construction for the property.”
(Complaint ¶ 39.) Taken together, this court finds that Plaintiffs sufficiently
allege theft and criminal intent.
 
Accordingly, this court overrules the demurrer on
this ground.
 
v.              
Fraudulent
Misrepresentation and Negligent Misrepresentation
 
Defendants argue the complaint fails to state a
cause of action for fraudulent misrepresentation or negligent misrepresentation
because the alleged fraudulent misrepresentations “are simply Abikzer’s
opinions and/or predictions on the best strategy for investing in an income
producing property; . . . Abikzer’s opinions and/or predictions on the value of
the subject property; . . . Abikzer’s opinions and/or predictions on the cost,
status and timing of the project; [or] a mere conclusion Abikzer’s
representation $1 million was spent on the project was false.” (Demurrer p.
12.) Defendants further argue that “[a]ny claim that Abikzer had no intent for
Renov8 to perform its contracted for services at the time of the Agreement is
specious”, “[t]here is no dispute Renov8 performed construction services for
roughly a year before Plaintiffs terminated the Agreement”, “Plaintiffs’ only
grievance is that Renov8 did not properly perform contracted for construction
services in breach of the Agreement”, and “Abikzer’s purported statement he
would pay for the construction is merely a promise of future conduct that is
not actionable as fraud[.]” (Demurrer p. 13.)
 
The elements of a fraud claim are: (1) a
misrepresentation; (2) knowledge of falsity; (3) intent to defraud; (4)
justifiable reliance; and (5) resulting damage. (Beckwith v. Dahl (2012)
205 Cal.App.4th 1039, 1060.) Fraud elements must be alleged with particularity.
(Id.)
 
Negligent misrepresentation “requires a
misrepresentation, justifiable reliance and damage.” (Melican v. Regents of
University of California (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 168, 181-182.) “The elements of negligent misrepresentation are
similar to intentional fraud except for the requirement of scienter; in a claim
for negligent misrepresentation, the plaintiff need not allege the defendant
made an intentionally false statement, but simply one as to which he or she
lacked any reasonable ground for believing the statement to be true.” (Id. at
p. 182.)
 
Plaintiffs allege that “Abikzer told Zakeri
that he would pay for the construction and Zakeri would pay for the land” but “intentionally
failed to disclose to Zakeri that he did not have the money to pay for the
construction.” (Complaint ¶¶ 21, 25.) Plaintiffs also allege that “Ammar and
Abikzer, together, told Zakeri that the Property came with approved plans and
permits for either rental apartments or ‘for sale’ condominiums already paid
for so they could start construction immediately” and “further represented to
Zakeri the completed condominiums would be worth a minimum of $5.5 million, and
each unit would be worth at least $850,000.” (Complaint ¶ 24.) But “Ammar and
Abikzer did not inform Zakeri that they must build the Property exactly as the
plans were approved to receive a Certificate of occupancy and permanent utility
services with meters” and “Abikzer intentionally did not tell Zakeri that
building the new residences as approved would cost over $3 million.” (Complaint
¶ 25.)
 
Plaintiffs also allege the Construction Agreement
provided that Renov8 was obligated to complete construction for $2,000,000, but
“Abikzer knew the fixed $2 million construction cost was totally insufficient
to build the Project in substantial conformance with the necessary requirements
of the approved plans and to obtain the finaled building permit” and “simply
used $2 million as a fictional number that he knew was within the Zakeris’
tolerance level based on their earlier discussions.” (Complaint ¶ 31.) Finally,
Plaintiffs allege that “[t]he actual cost to complete the Project in
substantial conformance with the approved plans was approximately $3.2 million”
but “Abikzer intentionally used an artificially low cost of construction to
induce the Zakeris to sign the Agreement and pay Abikzer the initial payment of
$500,000.” (Complaint ¶ 31.)
 
Defendants argue the allegations discussed above
were merely opinions, which cannot constitute misrepresentations. (Demurrer p.
12.) Defendants cite cases, including Gentry v. eBay, Inc. (2002) 99
Cal.App.4th 816, 835, where the Court stated “[r]epresentations of value are
opinions.” In Gentry, the Court of Appeal considered an assertion that
“a positive eBay rating is ‘worth its weight in gold.’” (Id.) The Court
stated that, “a representation is one of opinion ‘if it expresses only (a) the
belief of the maker, without certainty, as to the existence of a fact; or (b)
his judgment as to quality, value, authenticity, or other matters of
judgment.’” (Id.) The Court further stated that “Although the line of demarcation between expressions of fact and opinion
can be unclear at times, this is not such a case. This kind of vague, highly
subjective statement as to the significance of a positive rating is not the
sort of statement that a consumer would interpret as factual or upon which he
or she could reasonably rely.” (Id.) 
 
In contrast to the statement in Gentry,
the allegations here could be interpreted as factual or upon which a person
could reasonably rely. 
 
Further, Plaintiffs sufficiently allege the
remaining fraudulent and negligent misrepresentation elements. Plaintiffs
allege “Defendants Abikzer and Ammar . . . knew that the representations
alleged in paragraphs 21, 24, 26, 31, 33, 34, and 35 above were false at the
time they made them . . . [and] made these representations with the intent to
induce the Zakeris to purchase the Property, hire Abikzer as the general
contractor, and to pay Abikzer, Renov8 and Milestone $500,000 that was not due
and owing under the Agreement.” (Complaint ¶ 70.) Thus,
the complaint alleges knowledge of falsity and intent to defraud. Plaintiffs
also allege that “Plaintiffs believed Defendants’ representations” and
“justifiably relied on Defendants’ representations as alleged herein by
purchasing the Property, hiring Abikzer as the general contractor, and paying
Abikzer, Renov8 and Milestone $500,000 that was not due an[d] owing.”
(Complaint ¶ 71.) Thus, the complaint alleges justifiable reliance. Finally, Plaintiffs
allege that “[a]s a direct and proximate result of Defendants’ negligent acts
and omissions, Plaintiffs have been damaged in an amount to be proven at trial,
which is no less than $2 million.” (Complaint ¶ 73.) Thus, the complaint
alleges resulting damages.
 
Accordingly, this court overrules the
demurrer on this ground.
 
vi.            
Economic Loss Rule
 
Defendants argue the fraud claims are barred
by the economic loss rule. (Demurrer p. 14.) 
 
“[T]he economic loss rule ‘prevents the law of
contract and the law of tort from dissolving one into the other.” (Robinson
Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988.)  “Conduct amounting to a breach of contract
becomes tortious only when it violates a duty independent of the contract
arising from principles of tort law.” (Id. at p. 989.)  California
law permits tort damages “in contract cases where a breach of duty directly
causes physical injury [citation]; for breach of the covenant of good faith and
fair dealing in insurance contracts [citation]; for wrongful discharge in
violation of fundamental public policy [citation]; or where the contract was
fraudulently induced.” (Id. at pp. 989-990.)
 
“[T]he economic loss rule does not apply to limit
recovery for intentional tort claims like fraud.” (Rattagan v. Uber
Technologies, Inc. (2024) 17 Cal.5th 1, 38.) “Under
California law, a plaintiff may assert a cause of action for fraudulent
concealment based on conduct occurring in the course of a contractual
relationship, if the elements of the claim can be established independently of
the parties' contractual rights and obligations and the tortious conduct
exposes the plaintiff to a risk of harm beyond the reasonable contemplation of
the parties when they entered into the contract.” (Id. at p. 45.) 
 
Here, as noted above, Plaintiffs allege Abikzer
and Ammar made misrepresentations – including that the project could be
completed for $2 million and Plaintiffs “justifiably relied on Defendants’
representations as alleged herein by purchasing the Property, hiring Abikzer as
the general contractor, and paying Abikzer, Renov8 and Milestone $500,000 that
was not due an[d] owing.” (Complaint ¶¶ 31, 71.) 
 
Thus, Plaintiffs sufficiently allege that the
contract was fraudulently induced. This court overrules the demurrer on this
ground.
 
vii.           
Parol Evidence Rule
 
Defendants argue the fraud claims are barred
by the parol evidence rule. (Demurrer p. 15.)
 
“Terms set forth in a writing intended by
the parties as a final expression of their agreement with respect to the terms
included therein may not be contradicted by evidence of a prior agreement or of
a contemporaneous oral agreement.” (Civ. Code § 1856(a).) “The terms set forth
in a writing described in subdivision (a) may be explained or supplemented by
evidence of consistent additional terms unless the writing is intended also as
a complete and exclusive statement of the terms of the agreement.” (Civ. Code §
1856(b).) “Where the validity of the agreement is the fact in dispute, this
section does not exclude evidence relevant to that issue.” (Civ. Code §
1856(f).) “This section does not exclude other evidence of the circumstances
under which the agreement was made or to which it relates, as defined in Section 1860, or to explain an extrinsic
ambiguity or otherwise interpret the terms of the agreement, or to establish
illegality or fraud.” (Civ. Code § 1856(g).) 
 
Accordingly, because evidence to establish
fraud is not barred by the parol evidence rule, this court overrules the
demurrer on this ground.
 
viii.         
Accounting

 
Defendants argue the complaint fails to state a
cause of action “for an accounting against Milestone and Abikzer because they
have no independent duty to account to Plaintiffs” and “[t]he Complaint alleges
only a contractual relationship between Plaintiffs and Renov8.” (Demurrer p.
16.)
 
“A cause of action
for an accounting requires a showing that a relationship exists between the
plaintiff and defendant that requires an accounting, and that some balance is
due the plaintiff that can only be ascertained by an accounting.” (Teselle
v. McLoughlin (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 156, 179.) “An action for accounting is not available where the plaintiff alleges
the right to recover a sum certain or a sum that can be made certain by
calculation.” (Id.)
 
Plaintiffs argue they have sufficiently
alleged a cause of action for accounting because Milestone is considered a
party to the Agreement and Abizker is the responsible managing officer registered
with the Contractors State License Board for Renov8 and Milestone. (Opposition
to Demurrer p. 18.) Plaintiffs also state that their accounting cause of action
is based upon Plaintiffs’ entrusting Abizker, Renov8 and Milestone “with $1
million for the project’s construction” and “Plaintiffs seek an accounting to
determine how Defendants spent this money, specifically how much was used for
the project and how much was misappropriated.” (Opposition to Demurrer pp.
18-19.) 
 
In Teselle v. McLoughlin, supra, 173
Cal.App.4th 156, 179-180, the Court of Appeal stated that “The right to an
accounting can arise from the possession by the defendant of money or property
which, because of the defendant’s relationship with the plaintiff, the
defendant is obliged to surrender.” 
 
Plaintiffs allege they “paid to, and
entrusted Defendants Abikzer, Renov8 and Milestone with $1 million for
construction of the Project.” (Complaint ¶ 82.) However, “[i]ndependent
assessments by two construction professionals indicate that the current value
of the work in place is approximately $350,000, representing less than 20%
completion of the project” and “Defendants have not paid suppliers and
subcontractors thereby allowing mechanic’s liens to be recorded against the
Property despite receiving excess funds of approximately $650,000.” (Complaint ¶¶
83-84.) Accordingly, Plaintiffs have alleged that Defendants Abikzer, Renov8,
and Milestone received $1 million from Plaintiffs, and Defendants Abikzer,
Renov8, and Milestone are obligated to surrender some of the funds because they
have not been spent on the Project. Under Teselle v. McLoughlin, that is
sufficient.
 
Accordingly, this court overrules the demurrer on
this ground.
 
ix.            
Declaratory
Relief
 
Defendants argue Plaintiffs’ fail to state a cause
of action for declaratory relief against Milestone and Abikzer because they
were not parties to the Construction Agreement. (Demurrer p. 16.) 
 
“Any person
interested under a written instrument . . . or under a contract, or who desires
a declaration of his or her rights or duties with respect to another, or in
respect to, in, over or upon property . . . may, in cases of actual controversy
relating to the legal rights and duties of the respective parties, bring an
original action or cross-complaint in the superior court for a declaration
of his or her rights and duties in the premises, including a determination of
any question of construction or validity arising under the instrument or
contract. He or she may ask for a declaration of rights or duties, either alone
or with other relief; and the court may make a binding declaration of these
rights or duties, whether or not further relief is or could be claimed at the
time. The declaration may be either affirmative or negative in form and effect,
and the declaration shall have the force of a final judgment. The declaration
may be had before there has been any breach of the obligation in respect to which
said declaration is sought.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1060.)
 
Plaintiffs allege that “On October 3,
2024, the Zakeris sent a letter to Abikzer terminating the Agreement (attached
hereto as Exhibit 4). On information and believe, Defendants Renov8 and
Milestone contend the Agreement is not terminated.” (Complaint ¶ 89.) “Plaintiffs
seek a declaration from this Court that the Agreement is terminated, effective
October 3, 2024, and that Defendants must return all unused funds received from
the Zakeris as of that date in the approximate amount of $650,000.” (Complaint ¶
90.) 
 
Plaintiffs sufficiently allege a breach of
contract cause of action against Milestone and Abikzer. Accordingly, this court
overrules the demurrer on this ground.
 
VI.          
MOTION
TO STRIKE
 


Legal Standard


The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in
its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false,
or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(a).) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 436(b).) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the
face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc.
§¿437(a).)¿¿¿ 
 
A motion to strike is appropriate to attack a
claim for punitive damages. (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157
Cal.App.3d 159, 164.)  
 


Discussion


Defendants request this court strike the
allegations and prayer for relief referencing treble damages under Penal Code
section 496 and punitive damages under Plaintiffs’ fraud cause of action.
This court overrules the demurrer on the grounds
Plaintiffs failed to state causes of action for theft and fraud. Accordingly,
this court denies the motion to strike.
VII.        
LEAVE
TO AMEND
“Where the defect raised by a motion to strike or
by demurrer is reasonably capable of cure, ‘leave to amend is routinely and
liberally granted to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the defect in
question.’” (CLD Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120
Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.)¿ 
This court finds there is a reasonable possibility
Plaintiffs can cure the defects in the complaint and grants Plaintiffs leave to
amend.
VIII.      CONCLUSION
For the foregoing reasons, this court sustains the
demurrer and grants Plaintiffs leave to amend within the statutory period.
 
 
 
 
 
Dated: January
7, 2025
                                                                                





  