 This is a lemon law action.  Plaintiff Hannah Dominick seeks to compel the PMK deposition of Defendant General Motors LLC. The Motion is granted as to deposition category nos. 1 (repairs to subject vehicle), 7 (Defendant’s reasons for not repurchasing subject vehicle), 8 (policies and procedures for repurchases/replacements), 9 (warranty policies and procedures), 10 (warranties for the subject vehicle), 11 (repair procedures), and 12 (diagnostics).  These categories are plainly relevant, and the objections lack merit.  Category nos. 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 are narrowed to TSBs and recalls that are actually applicable to the defects that are at issue in this lawsuit. Category nos. 13-23 pertain to all of the reasons a TSB or recall was issued, “including but not limited to the number of customer complaints, amounts paid for repairs, technical hotline inquiries, and any and all data/information relied upon or utilized by General Motors, LLC in the issuance and/or publication of the recall.”  Defendant need only produce a deponent most familiar with generalized, compiled, or aggregate information that would warrant the bulletins or recalls at issue.  In other words, Defendant need not produce a deponent that has familiarity with documents pertaining to specific, individual vehicles other than the subject vehicle. With respect to documents, the Motion is granted as to request nos. 1 (all documents pertaining to the subject vehicle), 2 (repair documents), 5 (investigation for repurchase), 6 (repurchase policies and procedures), 7 (repair procedures), and 8 (diagnostic procedures).  Request nos. 3 and 4 are narrowed to TSBs and recalls applicable to the defects at issue in this suit.   Request nos. 9-19 are narrowed to compiled, aggregate, or generalized information as specified above.  In sum, the Motion is granted in part as set forth herein.  The deposition is to take place within 30 days.  Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 