  Case Number:  23STCV03826    Hearing Date:   February 7, 2024    Dept:  50 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 
 
 



 CINDY ROSEN,
  
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 JAY BLOOM,
  et al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


23STCV03826




Hearing Date:


February 7, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
DEFENDANT JULIEN
  ENTERTAINMENT.COM, INC.’S DEMURRER TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT;
 
DEFENDANT JULIEN
  ENTERTAINMENT.COM, INC.’S MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF PLAINTIFF’S FIRST
  AMENDED COMPLAINT
 



 
 
Background
On February 22, 2023, Plaintiff Cindy Rosen (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Defendants Jay Bloom (“Bloom”), Murder Inc., LLC, The Mafia
Collection, LLC, Julien
Entertainment.Com, Inc. (“Julien Entertainment”) and Julien’s Auction
House, LLC. The original Complaint alleged causes of action for (1) conversion,
(2) unjust enrichment, (3) intentional misrepresentation, (4) financial elder
abuse, (5) intentional infliction of emotional distress, and (6) unfair
competition. 
            Julien Entertainment demurred to the second and sixth causes
of action of the original Complaint. On July 19, 2023, the Court issued an
Order overruling Julien Entertainment’s demurrer to the second cause of action
of the Complaint, and sustaining Julien Entertainment’s demurrer to the sixth
cause of action of the Complaint, with leave to amend.
On
August 24, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”),
alleging causes of action for (1) conversion, (2) unjust enrichment, (3)
intentional misrepresentation, (4) financial elder abuse, (5) intentional
infliction of emotional distress, 
(6)
unfair competition, and (7) negligence. 
In
the FAC, Plaintiff alleges that she is the “granddaughter of famous Los
Angeles and Las Vegas personality, Benjamin Siegel.” (FAC, ¶10.) Plaintiff owns
and is the beneficiary of a collection of personal items (the “Memorabilia”) once
belonging to Benjamin Siegel, composed of various items including, but not
limited to photos, clothing, home decor, home movies, and handwritten letters.
(FAC, ¶ 10.) 
The Memorabilia was on loan to Bloom for use in his show in Las
Vegas, Nevada,
called “The Mob Experience,” a paid admission show which displayed, among other
things, actual artifacts and belongings of famous mobsters, including the
Memorabilia. (FAC, ¶ 11.) “The Mob Experience” ultimately filed for bankruptcy in
2011, but Bloom continued to possess the Memorabilia. (FAC, ¶ 12.) Despite
repeated requests, Bloom refused to return the Memorabilia, and ultimately
“induced Plaintiff to allow him to purchase the items from her.” (FAC, ¶ 13.)
To this end, on August 24, 2020, Plaintiff engaged in negotiations via text
message and phone calls with Bloom to effectuate the sale of the Memorabilia.
(FAC, ¶ 13.)
Plaintiff and Bloom reached a tentative agreement of $60,000 in
consideration for the
Memorabilia.
(FAC, ¶ 14.) On December 4, 2021, due to significant delays, Plaintiff and
Bloom renegotiated the consideration for the Memorabilia, agreeing to increase
it to $125,000. (FAC, ¶ 16.) In addition, on March 10, 2022, “Defendant asked
Plaintiff via text, ‘What is a fair number at which you
would feel that I did the right thing to close this out?’ Plaintiff responded by
asking [Bloom] to confirm that $130,000…would be paid no later than March 17,
2022, to which [Bloom] agreed and confirmed.” (FAC, ¶ 20.)  
 Bloom continued to
represent to Plaintiff that she would receive payment for the Memorabilia still
in Bloom’s
possession, but no payment was ever received. (FAC, ¶ 23.) In August 2022,
Plaintiff became aware that Julien Entertainment was
offering the Memorabilia for auction on behalf of Bloom. (FAC, ¶ 24.)
On August 24, 2022, Plaintiff’s lawyer sent a cease-and-desist letter to Julien
Entertainment “informing them that [Bloom] did not have ownership of the
Memorabilia and putting [Julien Entertainment] on notice they did not have a right to
auction the Memorabilia.” (FAC, ¶ 25.) On August 28, 2022, after receiving and
acknowledging receipt of the cease-and-desist letter, Julien
Entertainment opened auctioning for the Memorabilia, all of which was sold at
the auction. (FAC, ¶ 26.) 
Julien
Entertainment now demurs to the sixth and seventh causes of action of the FAC. Julien
Entertainment also moves to strike portions of the FAC. Plaintiff opposes
both.  
Motion to Strike[1] 
A.   
Legal Standard
A
court may strike any “irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading” or any part of a pleading “not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., section 436.) 
B.    
Untimely Filing of the FAC
First,
the Court’s July 19, 2023 Order on Julien Entertainment’s demurrer
pertaining to the original Complaint provides, inter alia, that “[t]he Court orders Plaintiff to file and serve an amended
complaint, if any, within 20 days of the date of this order. If no amended complaint is filed within 30
days of this Order, Julien Entertainment is ordered to file and serve its answer
within 40 days of the date of this Order.” (July 19, 2023 Order, p. 6.) Julien
Entertainment notes that the FAC was filed on August 24, 2023, more than 30
days after July 19, 2023.[2]
Julien
Entertainment asserts that “Plaintiff’s failure to file an
amended complaint within the time specified subjects her entire action to
dismissal in the Court’s discretion under CCP § 581,
subdivision (f)(2).” (Mot. at p. 4:20-22.) Code of
Civil Procedure section 581, subdivision (f)(2) provides that “[t]he court may dismiss the complaint as to that defendant
when:…(2) Except where Section 597 applies,
after a demurrer to the complaint is sustained with leave to amend, the
plaintiff fails to amend it within the time allowed by the court and either
party moves for dismissal.” In the opposition, Plaintiff contends that “[h]ere, the breakdown in
communication between both parties’ respective counsel caused unnecessary delay
in the filing of the FAC. Accordingly, the FAC must be permitted in its
entirety.” (Opp’n at p. 6:2-4.)[3]
The Court also notes that Julien Entertainment’s notice of motion does
not state that Julien Entertainment moves for dismissal of the FAC, to the
extent that is what Julien Entertainment seeks. The notice of motion states, inter
alia, that “[t]his Motion is made on the ground that, under California Code of Civil Procedure §§ 436(a) and 436(b),
the sixth and seventh causes of action contains irrelevant, false, or improper
matters and/or is not drawn in conformity with the laws of this State and
should therefore be stricken.” (Notice of Mot. at p. 1:14-17.)[4] The
Court notes that “[a] notice of motion must state in
the opening paragraph the nature of the order being sought and the grounds for
issuance of the order.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1110, subd. (a).) The
Court thus does not find that dismissal of the entire FAC is warranted here,
but admonishes Plaintiff that
any¿future filings must comply with the Court’s orders. 
C.    
Sixth Cause of Action and Accompanying Prayer
for Relief 
Next, Julien Entertainment asserts that “[t]he Court should strike the
FAC’s sixth cause of action, paragraph 66 of the FAC,
and the accompanying prayer for relief for the sixth cause of action.” (Mot. at
p. 5:7-9.) Julien Entertainment asserts that “[o]n July 19, 2023, the Court
sustained Julien’s demurrer to the sixth cause of action with leave to amend.
Plaintiff failed to amend this claim, yet still included it as part of the FAC.
As such the Court should strike the sixth cause of action for unfair competition
as it remains legally deficient.” (Mot. at p. 5:10-13.) 
The Court notes that the asserted legal deficiency of the sixth cause
of action is addressed below in connection with Julien Entertainment’s
demurrer. As set forth below, the Court sustains Julien Entertainment’s
demurrer to the sixth cause of action of the FAC, without leave to amend. The
Court thus denies Julien Entertainment’s motion to strike the sixth cause of
action, paragraph 66 of the sixth cause of action, and the prayer for relief on
the sixth cause of action as moot. 
D.   
Seventh Cause of Action for Negligence 
Julien Entertainment also asserts that “Plaintiff’s new claim for
negligence contained in the seventh cause of action was filed without obtaining
leave of Court and must be stricken.” (Mot. at p. 6:3-5.) Julien Entertainment asserts that accordingly, “the
new seventh cause of action for negligence amounts to improper matter under CCP § 436.” (Mot. at p. 6:19-20.)  
Plaintiff’s original Complaint did not allege a cause of action for
negligence. As noted by
Plaintiff, “[f]ollowing an order sustaining a demurrer or a motion for
judgment on the pleadings with leave to amend, the plaintiff may amend his or
her complaint only as authorized by the court’s order. The plaintiff may not amend the
complaint to add a new cause of action without having obtained permission to do
so, unless the new cause of action is within the scope of the order granting
leave to amend.” (Harris v. Wachovia Mortgage, FSB (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023 (internal
citation omitted).) Plaintiff asserts that here,
“the Seventh Cause of Action was added in support of the Sixth
Cause of Action…It was clearly in the scope of the order to allow Plaintiff to
plead a claim for negligence, which is in nature perfectly in line with its
other claims.” (Opp’n at p. 5:9-12.) But as noted by Julien Entertainment, the
Court’s July 19, 2023 Order granted Plaintiff leave to amend only as to
Plaintiff’s unfair competition cause of action.  
The Court does not find that Plaintiff has shown that the new negligence cause of action 
is within the scope of the July 19, 2023 Order
granting leave to amend. Based on the foregoing, the Court
grants Julien Entertainment’s motion to strike the seventh cause of action of
the FAC. 
Demurrer 
A.    Legal Standard 
A demurrer can be used only to challenge
defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters
outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To
survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a
cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A.
v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions
or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v.
Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d
695, 713.) 
B.    
Sixth Cause of Action for Unfair Competition 
Business and Professions Code section 17200, et
seq. (the “Unfair Competition Law” or “UCL”) prohibits fraudulent, unlawful and unfair business practices. “By
proscribing ‘any unlawful’ business act or practice . . . , the UCL ‘borrows’
rules set out in other laws and makes violations of those rules independently
actionable.” (Zhang v. Superior Court (2013) 57 Cal.4th 364, 370.) A “violation of another law is a predicate for stating a cause of
action under the UCL’s unlawful prong.” (Berryman
v. Merit Property Management, Inc. (2007)
152 Cal.App.4th 1544, 1554.) However, even beyond violations of
another law, “[u]nder the broad scope of the UCL, [t]he statutory language
referring to ‘any unlawful, unfair or
fraudulent’ practice (italics added) makes clear that a practice may be deemed
unfair even if not specifically proscribed by some other law. . . . [T]he
Legislature . . . intended by this sweeping language to permit tribunals to
enjoin on-going wrongful business conduct in whatever context such activity
might occur.” (Paulus v. Bob Lynch Ford, Inc.
(2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 659, 678
(internal quotations and citations omitted).) 
In the demurrer, Julien
Entertainment asserts that “Julien’s demurrer to the sixth cause of action was
sustained with leave to amend on July 19, 2023, and Plaintiff failed to amend.”
(Demurrer at p. 4:12-13.) In the opposition, Plaintiff does not appear to
dispute that the FAC’s sixth cause of action for unfair competition was not
amended following the Court’s July 19, 2023 Order.  Julien Entertainment asserts that accordingly,
“the FAC still fails to allege with any certainty, let alone with
‘reasonable particularity,’ any facts that would support a conclusion of unfair
or fraudulent business conduct by Julien’s.” (Demurrer at p. 5:4-6.) 
In Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th
612, 618-619, cited
again by Julien Entertainment, the Court of Appeal noted that “[a]ppellant’s fourth cause of action
alleges: ‘California Business and
Professions Code Sections 17000, et seq., and 17200, et seq., states [sic] that unfair competition shall mean and
include unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business practices. [P] . . . Defendants
breached this statute by refusing to sell [the JPM products] to plaintiff, for
the purpose of ruining and interfering with his beauty and supply business,
with the effect of misleading plaintiff’s customers.’” The Court of Appeal in Khoury found that “[a] plaintiff alleging unfair
business practices under these statutes must state with reasonable
particularity the facts supporting the statutory elements of the violation.
Demurrer was properly sustained as to this cause of action because the second
amended complaint identifies no particular section of the statutory scheme
which was violated and fails to describe with any reasonable particularity the
facts supporting violation.” (Id. at p. 619
[internal citations
omitted].)
In the sixth cause of action for unfair competition, Plaintiff again alleges
that “Defendants’
acts of offering the Memorabilia for sale and auction and
retention of the proceeds of that sale constituted an unlawful, unfair,
and fraudulent business practice.” (FAC, ¶ 63.) Plaintiff further
alleges that “[Bloom’s] representation of himself as the rightful owner of the
Memorabilia and JULIEN’S auctioning of the Memorabilia despite being on notice
that it would be unlawful to do so, were deceitful and this conduct was
undertaken with the intention of deceiving the public as to the true ownership
of the Memorabilia.” (FAC, ¶ 65.) 
As set forth above, the Khoury Court found, in reference to
the appellant’s cause of action pertaining to California Business and Professions Code Sections 17000,
et seq., that “[d]emurrer was properly sustained as to this cause of action
because the second amended complaint identifies no particular section of the
statutory scheme which was violated and fails to describe with any reasonable
particularity the facts supporting violation.” (Id. at p. 619.) Here,
Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action still does not identify any “particular section of the statutory scheme” that was
allegedly violated. (Khoury v. Maly's of California,
Inc., supra, at page 619.)

In addition, Plaintiff still
does not address the Khoury case in the opposition.[5] 
Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains the demurrer to the sixth
cause of action, without leave to amend. As discussed, the Court sustained Julien Entertainment’s demurrer to this cause of action in
the original Complaint. In addition, Plaintiff has
not proffered any basis for any amendment to cure the foregoing deficiencies.
¿¿¿
C.    
Seventh Cause of Action for Negligence 
Julien Entertainment also demurs to the
seventh cause of action for negligence. As set forth above, the Court grants
Julien Entertainment’s motion to strike the seventh cause of action. Thus, the
Court finds that Julien Entertainment’s demurrer to the seventh cause of action
is moot. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Julien
Entertainment’s motion to strike the seventh cause of action is granted. The
remainder of Julien Entertainment’s motion to strike is denied as moot. 
In addition, the Court
sustains Julien Entertainment’s demurrer to the sixth cause of action, without
leave to amend. Julien Entertainment’s demurrer to the seventh cause of action
is overruled as moot. 
The Court orders Julien Entertainment to file and serve an answer to the FAC
within 10 days of the date of this Order.¿¿ 
Lastly, the Court notes that in its reply in support of the
demurrer, Julien Entertainment asserts that “Plaintiff’s
counsel fails to inform the Court that his client passed away sometime in
October or November 2023…Plaintiff’s counsel has not shown that an estate has
been established in Nevada, where Plaintiff lived, or, if an estate has been
established, that Plaintiff’s counsel has been engaged by the estate to pursue
this lawsuit.”
(Reply at p. 1:5-8.) The Court sets a status conference regarding these issues
for _____________, 2024 at 10:00 a.m. in Dept. 50. The Court orders Plaintiff
to file and serve a status report 5 days before such status conference. 
Julien Entertainment is
ordered to give notice of this Order.¿  
 
DATED:  February 7, 2024                            ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los Angeles Superior Court


