 Case Number:  23STCV09794    Hearing Date:   February 7, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
            



CARMEN KING, ASSIGNEE FOR ANTOLIN GARCIA,                         
 
                       
  Plaintiff,
            vs.
JORGE GARCIA, et
  al.,
                        
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


23STCV09794




Hearing Date:


February 7, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m. 




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
MOTION TO
  CONSOLIDATE THIS ACTION KING V. JORGE GARCIA ET AL. AND AN UNLAWFUL DETAINER
  ACTION JORGE AND THERESA NONOAL V. ANTOLIN GARCIA ET AL. CASE NO. 23STUD16249
 



 
Background
On May 2, 2023, Plaintiff Carmen King, Assignee for Antolin Garcia
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Jorge Garcia and Teresa
Nonoal (jointly, “Defendants”). 
On October 16, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative Second Amended
Complaint (“SAC”) in this action, alleging causes of action for (1) breach of
contract, (2) fraud in the inducement, and (3) breach of the implied covenant
of good faith and fair dealing. 
Plaintiff now moves to consolidate the instant action with “Case No.
23STUD16249.” Defendants oppose. 
Discussion
Code of Civil Procedure section 1048 grants discretion to trial courts to consolidate actions involving
common questions of law or fact. “Consolidation is not a matter of
right; it rests solely within the sound discretion of the trial judge. . .” ((Fisher
v. Nash Bldg. Co. (1952) 113
Cal.App.2d 397, 402.) There are two types of consolidation
under section 1048: “a consolidation for purposes
of trial only, where the two actions remain otherwise separate; and a complete
consolidation or consolidation for all purposes, where the two actions are
merged into a single proceeding under one case number and result in only one
verdict or set of findings and one judgment.” ((Hamilton
v. Asbestos Corp. (2000) 22
Cal.4th 1127, 1147.) “The purpose is to enhance trial
court efficiency (i.e., to avoid unnecessary duplication of evidence and
procedures); and to avoid the substantial danger of inconsistent adjudications
(i.e., different results because tried before different juries, or a judge and
jury, etc.).” (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civ. Proc. Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2022) ¶ 12:340.) 
 
The Instant Case – Carmen
King, Assignee for Antolin Garcia v. Jorge Garcia, et al. (Case No. 23STCV09794) 
            As
set forth above, in the SAC in the instant case, Plaintiff alleges
causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2) fraud in the inducement, and
(3) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.  
In the SAC, Plaintiff alleges that “in early September of 2011,
Antolin Garcia desired to purchase a home for his family and himself. Antolin
Garcia was approached by Jorge Garcia at which time Jorge Garcia told Antolin
that Jorge knew a realtor names [sic] Frank Aguilar who could assist him in
locating a property and who could assist as a realtor in the purchase of any
such property.” (SAC, ¶ 8.) Antolin found a property that he was interested in
purchasing, which was located at 845 E. 27th Street, Los Angeles, CA 90011 (the
“Property”). (SAC, ¶ 9.) 
Plaintiff alleges that “[a]fter discussing the possibility of purchasing
the Property further with Mr. Aguilar Antolin realized that he would not be
able to qualify for a loan to purchase the property.” (SAC, ¶ 10.) “Antolin and
Mr. Aguilar advised Jorge of the circumstances and Jorge suggested that since
Jorge had good credit and could qualify for a loan that Jorge and Antolin would
enter into an agreement wherein Antolin would pay $20,000 to open escrow and
Jorge would apply for a loan to purchase the Property. Further Antolin and his
family would live at the Property and would pay to Jorge the amount of $2,825
per month. That amount would cover the mortgage payment and would provide extra
money for Jorge to keep in reserve for any unforeseen repairs or maintenance
that may be required at the Property.” (SAC, ¶ 11.) Plaintiff alleges that “[w]hen
Antolin was able to get his own financing and replace Jorge as the borrower,
Jorge would keep the reserve account as his payment for the joint venture.”
(SAC, ¶ 11.) 
Plaintiff alleges that “[i]n furtherance of their joint venture,
Antolin made all the monthly payments in full and on time from October 2011
through March 2023.” (SAC, ¶ 15.) “In November of 2022, Jorge advised Antolin
that Antolin and his family had to leave the Property as Jorge now wanted to
sell the Property to a third party.” (SAC, ¶ 18.) Plaintiff alleges that “[w]hen
Antolin reminded Jorge of their joint venture, Jorge took the position that the
monthly payments made for the past 12 years were rent payments and not payments
toward the joint venture.” (SAC, ¶ 19.) 
Plaintiff alleges that “Antolin then learned that Jorge, without
Antolin’s knowledge or consent, had refinanced the loan and decreased the
monthly payments without providing Antolin with a commensurate reduction.
Further, Antolin learned that Jorge had taken out additional loans against the
Property again without Antolin’s knowledge or consent, which increased the debt
on the Properly by a total of $150,000.” (SAC, ¶ 21.) Plaintiff alleges that
“Antolin demanded that Jorge comply with the terms of their joint venture
agreement and Jorge refused. In April of 2023, Antolin assigned his rights
under the agreement and all other rights to Carmen King, Plaintiff in this
suit.” (SAC, ¶ 22.) 
Case
No. 23STUD16249
The Court notes that case number 23STUD16249 pertains to an unlawful
detainer Complaint filed on December 18, 2023 by Plaintiff Jorge Nonoal against
Defendants Antolin Garcia and Simon Garcia. The Court refers to Jorge Nonoal
v. Antolin Garcia, et al., Case No. 23STUD16249 as the “Unlawful Detainer
Action” herein. 
In the Unlawful Detainer Action, Jorge Nonoal alleges that defendants
are in possession of the premises located at 845 E. 27th Street Los Angeles, CA
90011. (Compl., ¶ 3(a).) Jorge Nonoal alleges that he is the owner of the
subject premises. (Compl., ¶ 4.) 
Jorge Nonoal further alleges that on or about June 1, 2020, Antolin
Garcia and Simon Garcia agreed to rent the premises as a month-to-month tenancy
and agreed to pay rent of $1,498.72 payable monthly. (Compl., ¶ 6(a).) Jorge
Nonoal alleges that “[t]he tenancy was terminated for at-fault just cause…”
(Compl., ¶ 8(a).) Jorge Nonoal alleges that at the time the 
3-day
notice to pay rent or quit was served, the amount of rent due was $13,488.48.
(Compl., ¶ 12.) 
            Consolidation 
            Plaintiff asserts that the Court
should consolidate the instant action and the Unlawful Detainer Action “on the
grounds that both cases involve the same issue (contract for rent or investment)
and/or same persons and the same facts.” (Mot. at p. 1.) 
            Plaintiff also cites to Martin-Bragg v. Moore (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 367, 370, where “Ivan
Rene Moore appeal[ed] in propria persona from the superior court’s
judgment following trial on the unlawful detainer complaint of
Kimberly Martin-Bragg seeking forfeiture of a lease and possession of
a property. The judgment…awarded Martin-Bragg possession of the
disputed property,” along with certain specified damages. “Moore appeal[ed] from the judgment on a number of
grounds, most notably the trial court’s refusal to consolidate the unlawful
detainer case against him with another action then pending in the superior
court, brought by Moore, seeking quiet title to
the property based on allegations that Martin-Bragg’s title to
the property was actually held in trust for Moore’s benefit.” ((Ibid.) The Court of Appeal concluded
that “the trial court abused its discretion in refusing Moore’s request to consolidate the unlawful detainer and
quiet title actions for trial and that Moore was
prejudiced by being forced to litigate the complex issue of title to the
property under the summary procedures that govern actions for unlawful
detainer.” ((Id. at pp. 370-371.)
The Martin-Bragg Court noted
that “the trial court has the power to consolidate an unlawful detainer
proceeding with a simultaneously pending action in which title to the property
is in issue. That is because a successful claim of title by the tenant would
defeat the landlord’s right to possession. When an unlawful detainer proceeding
and an unlimited action concerning title to the property are simultaneously
pending, the trial court in which the unlimited action is pending may stay
the unlawful detainer action until the issue of title is resolved in the
unlimited action, or it may consolidate the actions. If it does neither and
instead tries the issue of title under the summary procedures that constrain
unlawful detainer proceedings, the parties’ right to a full trial of the issue
of title may be unfairly expedited and limited. If complex issues of title are
tried in the unlawful detainer proceeding, the proceeding loses its summary
character; defects in the plaintiff’s title are neither properly raised in this
summary proceeding for possession, nor are they concluded by the judgment.” ((Id. at p.
385 [internal quotations and citations omitted].)  
Plaintiff
asserts that here, “the cases must be consolidated or the unlawful
detainer stayed pending a ruling defining any rights on the title to the
property.” (Mot. at p. 3.) Plaintiff further asserts that “[a]ssuming arguendo,
that the unlawful detainer action was successful, it would be based on the fact
that the plaintiffs in the action were in fact the owners of the property
against a tenant. Thus, this assumption could be false depending on the ruling
in the initial action.” (Mot. at p. 4.) 
            In the opposition, Defendants assert
that “the cases should not be consolidated because the SAC, even if proven
true, does not establish tenants’ right to title.” (Opp’n at p. 2:21-22.) More
specifically, Defendants assert that “[i]t is hornbook law that a purported
oral contract concerning real property not to be performed within one year is
unenforceable under the Statute of Frauds…Assignee’s third cause of action for
breach of the implied covenant found in the alleged oral contract similarly
fails where there is no legally enforceable oral contract under the Statute of
Frauds. Assignee’s second cause of action for fraud in the inducement, if she
prevails, would similarly not confer title on the Garcia tenants.” (Opp’n at p.
3:2-9.) But the Court finds that such arguments challenging the legal
sufficiency of the SAC are more appropriately raised by demurrer, motion for judgment on the
pleadings, or other appropriate proceedings. 
            Defendants assert that “[e]ven
should Assignee somehow prevail in showing a verbal agreement whereby
Defendants would hold legal title on behalf of their Garcia tenants for some
reason, that agreement would not survive the Statute of Frauds, nor the statute
of limitations, and it would be insufficient to confer title to the Garcia
tenants.” (Opp’n at p. 2:12-15.) Thus, Defendants appear to concede that
the instant action involves questions of title to the subject property located
at 845 E. 27th Street Los Angeles, California. As discussed, the Martin-Bragg Court
found that “[w]hen an unlawful detainer proceeding
and an unlimited action concerning title to the property are simultaneously
pending, the trial court in which the unlimited action is pending may stay the
unlawful detainer action until the issue of title is resolved in the unlimited
action, or it may consolidate the actions. If it does neither and instead tries the issue of title under the
summary procedures that constrain unlawful detainer proceedings, the parties’
right to a full trial of the issue of title may be unfairly expedited and
limited.” (Martin-Bragg v. Moore, supra, 219 Cal.App.4th at p. 385 [internal
citation omitted].)[1] 
Conclusion
Based on the
foregoing, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion to consolidate.  
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice of this ruling. 
 
DATED:  February 7, 2024                            
________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 


