  Case Number:  23PSCV00922    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  G Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants
Trinhnology Enterprise, Corp.; Howard Trinh; and Cloud & Sky Enterprises’s Demurrer
to First Amended Cross-Complaint
Respondent: Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Philip Chatalos
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants
Trinhnology Enterprise, Corp.; Howard Trinh; and Cloud & Sky Enterprises’s Motion to Strike Portions of First Amended
Cross-Complaint
Respondent: Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Philip Chatalos
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants
Trinhnology Enterprise, Corp.; Howard Trinh; and Cloud & Sky Enterprises’ Demurrer
to First Amended Cross-Complaint and Motion to Strike
Portions of First Amended Cross-Complaint are CONTINUED to a date to be determined at the
hearing in Department G (Pomona).
Cross-Defendants’
counsel is also ordered to meet and confer with Cross-Complainant’s Counsel regarding
the Demurrer and Motion to Strike and to file a supplemental declaration
describing such meet and confer efforts at least nine (9) court days before the
next scheduled hearing on the Demurrer and Motion to Strike.
BACKGROUND
This
is an action for breach of contract and fraud. In August 2019, Plaintiff
Trinhnology Enterprise, Corp. (Trinhnology) entered into an alleged oral
agreement with Defendant Philip Chatalos in which Trinhnology agreed to pay a
monthly design fee and sales commissions to Chatalos in exchange for Chatalos’
sale of Trinhnology’s clothing products. In September 2022, Trinhnology ended
its business relationship with Chatalos. Trinhnology alleges Chatalos breached
their agreement by failing to repay advances on Chatalos’s commission that
Trinhnology had paid. Trinhnology also alleges Chatalos overcharged Trinhnology
for product samples or requested reimbursement for samples that had not been
purchased. Last, Trinhnology alleges Trinhnology alleges Chatalos failed to
follow up with a client to ensure they made payments for previous orders and
reinstated orders that had been cancelled.
On
March 29, 2023, Trinhnology filed a complaint against Chatalos and Does 1-30,
alleging the following causes of action: (1) breach of oral contract, (2)
common counts, (3) breach of oral contract, (4) common counts, (5) fraud, (6)
negligence, (7) common counts, (8) negligence, and (9) negligence.
On
April 21, 2023, Chatalos filed a cross-complaint against Trinhnology, Howard
Quoc Trinh, Cloud & Sky Enterprises (Cloud & Sky), and Does 1-50,
alleging (1) breach of contract and (2) a violation of the California
Independent Wholesale Sales Representative Contractual Relations Act. On July
11, 2023, Chatalos dismissed the cross-complaint without prejudice.
On
November 2, 2023, after obtaining leave from the court, Chatalos filed a
cross-complaint against Trinhnology, Howard Trinh, Cloud & Sky, and Does
1-50, alleging (1) breach of contract and (2) a violation of the California
Independent Wholesale Sales Representative Contractual Relations Act.
On
March 25, 2024, Chatalos filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint (FACC) against
the same cross-defendants alleging the following causes of action: (1) breach
of oral contract, (2) violation of the California Independent Wholesale Sales
Representative Contractual Relations Act, (3) tortious breach of the covenant
of good faith and fair dealing, (4) intentional misrepresentation, (5)
intentional interference with contractual relationship, (6) conspiracy to
engage in intentional interference with contract, and (7) conspiracy to breach
the covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
On
June 12, 2024, Trinhology, Trinh, and Cloud & Sky (collectively, Trinh Defendants)
filed the present demurrer and motion to strike. A hearing on the present
demurrer and motion to strike is set for July 11, 2024, with a post-mediation
status conference/trial setting conference on October 29, 2024.
ANALYSIS
The
Trinh Defendants demur to Chatalos’ entire FACC. For the following reasons,
the court finds parties did not adequately meet and confer.
Legal
Standard
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a), prior to filing a
demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the
purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve
the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” This section further provides
that “the demurring party shall identify all of the specific causes of action
that it believes are subject to demurrer and identify with legal support the
basis of the deficiencies.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(1).)
While
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a)(4) makes clear failing
to meet and confer is not grounds to overrule a demurrer, courts “are not
required to ignore defects in the meet and confer process” and if the court
determines “no meet and confer has taken place, or concludes further
conferences between counsel would likely be productive, it retains discretion
to order counsel to meaningfully discuss the pleadings with an eye toward
reducing the number of issues or eliminating the need for a demurrer, and to
continue the hearing date to facilitate that effort.” (Dumas v. Los Angeles
County Bd. of Supervisors (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 348, 355 & fn. 3.)
Discussion
In this case, the Trinh Defendants’ counsel filed
a declaration stating counsel attempted to meet and confer by sending a letter
to Chatalos’ counsel. Because Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41
places the burden to meet and confer telephonically or in-person on the Trinh
Defendants’ counsel, the Court finds this attempt insufficient as the Trinh
Defendants’ counsel did not attempt to reach out to Chatalos’ counsel over the
telephone or in-person and a letter is not a code-compliant form of meeting and
conferring. Thus, the Court finds a continuance of the hearing on the Trinh
Defendants’ demurrer and motion to strike is appropriate.
CONCLUSION
Based
on the foregoing, the Trinh
Defendants’ demurrer and motion to strike are CONTINUED to a date to
be determined at the hearing in Department G (Pomona).
The Trinh Defendants’ counsel is also ordered to meet and
confer with Chatalos’ counsel regarding the demurrer and motion to strike and
to file a supplemental declaration describing such meet and confer efforts at
least nine (9) court days before the next scheduled hearing on the demurrer and
motion to strike.