On July 19, 2022, Plaintiff Sean Jeffrey Wolfe filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against Defendants Brandon Jerold Wolfe, Michael Wolfe, Wolfe Family Enterprises, LLC, iPayment, Inc., Robert Neal Purcell, and Robert Brady for (1) breach of written contract; (2) breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (3) promissory estoppel; (4) fraudulent misrepresentation; (5) constructive fraud; (6) breach of fiduciary duty; (7) negligent misrepresentation; (8) civil conspiracy; (9) violations of Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200; (10) intentional interference with prospective economic advantage; (11) negligent interference with prospective economic advantage; (12) intentional interference with contractual relations; (13) intentional infliction of emotional distress; (14) negligent infliction of emotional distress; (15) actual fraudulent transfer (Civ. Code § 3439.04); (16) constructive fraudulent transfer (Civ. Code § 3439.04(a)(2)); (17) demand for accounting; and (18) constructive trust.  The SAC alleges that “[Plaintiff] is the founder of the company that eventually became defendant Leaders Merchant Services, LLC; the brother of defendant Brandon Jerold Wolfe; and the son of defendant Michael Wolfe. Sean served as the company’s CEO until he was unlawfully and wrongfully ousted in 2012. . . . The purpose of this action is to resolve Sean’s legal disputes regarding Brandon and Michael’s unlawful dissipation of millions of dollars of his assets stemming from multiple forced transfers of his ownership interest in LMS to them; the sale of LMS to iPayment; as well as from Sean’s status as a conservatee . . . .”  (SAC ¶¶ 2, 13.) On August 15, 2023, the Court ruled on eight motions to compel further responses involving Plaintiff Sean Jeffrey Wolf, Defendant Brandon Wolfe, and Defendant Michael Wolf.  The Court specifically stated that “further discovery motions will likely result in the Court setting an OSC re: discovery referee.”   Plaintiff now brings two additional motions to compel further responses: one as to requests for admission and one as to form interrogatories.  Plaintiff also has two more motions to compel further responses set for January 23, 2024, and January 25, 2024.Given these facts, particularly the continuum of discovery hearings, the Court will set an OSC re: discovery referee.  The Court is inclined to assign all matters of discovery and sanctions between Plaintiff Sean Jeffrey Wolf, Defendant Brandon Wolfe, and Defendant Michael Wolf to the referee, including all matters relating to subpoenas.  The parties should be able to pay their pro rata share of referee fees.  The referee’s rulings will be final and will not be reviewed by the Court.All discovery motion hearings are hereby vacated and placed off calendar.  The Court will discuss a date for the OSC re: discovery referee.  Counsel should provide a stipulated order regarding the referee.  Plaintiff to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 