 Case Number:  23STCV04512    Hearing Date:   March 11, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of
California
County
of Los Angeles
 



 
CHELLE
  JOHNSON, an individual
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
KLAPACH
  & KLAPACH, P.C., a California professional corporation; and DOES 1 to 20,
  Inclusive,
 
                              Defendants.


Case No.:  23STCV04512
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed: March 1, 2023 
[1st
  Amended Complaint Filed: N/A ]
Trial
  Date:  None Set



 
Hearing
date:              March
11, 2024
Moving
Party:             Defendant
Klapach & Klapach, P.C. 
Responding
Party:      Plaintiff
Chelle Johnson
Defendant’s
Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint   
The Court
considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply. Defendant’s Demurrer to
Plaintiff’s Complaint is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend. 

 

Background
            Chelle
Johnson (Plaintiff) file a Complaint on March 1, 2023 against Klapach &
Klapach, P.C. (Defendant) for the sole cause of action for legal malpractice.
Defendant now demurs to the Complaint, Plaintiff opposes the demurrer, and
Defendant files a reply.  
            The
case stems from Dr. Fred Parrott (Testator) who hired and utilized the services
of Defendant for over ten years. (Complaint, ¶ 7.) Defendant is a law firm who
specializes in wills, trusts, and estate planning. In January of 2021, Testator
sought to further amend his trust by way of a Sixth Amendment to the Fourth
Amendment and Complete Restatement of the Fred D. Parrott Living Trust, Dated
May 16, 2014 (the Amendment). (Id., at ¶ 8.) Plaintiff alleges that this
Amendment was to, among other things, name Plaintiff as the designated realtor
for the sale of various properties (the Properties) after the Testator’s death.
(Id.)
            Plaintiff
alleges that Testator communicated this wish to Defendant via conference calls
and emails. (Complaint, ¶¶10-13.) In these emails, it is revealed that Carl
Patten (Trustee) is to be Trustee of the Fred D. Parrott Living Trust, Dated
May 16, 2014 (the Trust). (Id., ¶ 11.) Plaintiff then alleges that
through a series of emails, Defendant did not reflect the wishes of Testator in
the drafting of the Amendment. Then in March of 2022, Trustee fired Defendant
and informed Plaintiff that Plaintiff would not be engaged as the Trust’s
realtor to sell the properties. (Id. at ¶ 24.) Plaintiff then filed suit
against Defendant. 
  
Requests
for Judicial Notice
            Both
parties file requests for judicial notice. Defendant requests that this Court
judicially notice the following: 
1.    
Petition for: (1) Instructions
Regarding Use of Petitioner Chelle Johnson As Broker to Sell Trust Real
Property; or Alternatively, (2) For Modification of Trust and exhibit attached
thereto in the Los Angeles County Superior Court matter entitled In re: The
Fred D. Parrott Living Trust, dated October 8, 2014, as restated and amended
LASC Case No. 22STPB06275.
2.    
Objection of Trustee Carl W.
Patten, Jr. To Petition of Chelle Johnson for Instructions Or, Alternatively,
Modification of Trust in the Los Angeles County Superior Court matter entitled
In re: The Fred D. Parrott Living Trust, dated October 8, 2014, as restated and
amended LASC Case No. 22STPB06275.
3.    
Fourth Amendment to Fourth
Amendment and Complete Restatement of The Fred D. Parrott Living Trust, dated
May 16, 2014.
Pursuant to CEC § 452(d), the
aforementioned items[1]
are judicially recognized. Plaintiff requests that the following be judicially
recognized:
1.    
Plaintiff’s Complaint dated March
1, 2023. 
            The
Court references the operative complaint in all demurrers; therefore, judicial
notice is unnecessary. 
Discussion
            Legal Standard and Analysis for
Meet and Confer
            “Before filing a demurrer…the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of
determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections
to be raised in the demurrer.” (CCP § 430.41(a).) Defendant presents the
Declaration of Harold C. Trimmer (Trimmer Decl.) which states that the parties
conferred on April 6, 2023, but were unable to come to an agreement.
Nonetheless, the requirements of CCP § 430.41(a) are satisfied, therefore, the
Court turns its attention to the Demurrer. 

            Legal Standard for Demurrer
            “[A] demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects
that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside
the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins.
Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not
consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not
accepted for the truth of their contents].) For purposes of ruling on a
demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the
reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v.
Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
            Analysis for Demurrer
            “To state a cause of action for
legal malpractice, a plaintiff must plead (1) the duty of the attorney to use
such skill, prudence, and diligence as members of his or her profession
commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a proximate
causal connection between the breach and the resulting injury; and (4) actual
loss or damage resulting from the attorney’s negligence.” (Kumaraperu v.
Feldsted (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 60, 66, quotation marks omitted.)
            Here, the Demurrer is sustained
because Plaintiff fails to demonstrate Defendant owed her a legal duty.
Plaintiff alleges that, although she was not the client receiving legal
services from Defendant, she nonetheless was owed a duty by Defendant to draft
the Amendment in accordance with Testator’s wishes because Plaintiff was a beneficiary.
The Court disagrees for two reasons. First, the Biakanja/Lucas factors
weigh against a determination of Plaintiff being a non-client potential beneficiary.
Second, the Complaint itself states that it was the Trustee that informed
Plaintiff that Plaintiff would not be engaged as the Trust’s realtor to sell
the properties, and the Complaint fails to show that this was caused by
Defendant’s actions.     
a.     The Biakanja/Lucas Factors
            The case surrounded by the parties
contentions is Chang v. Lederman (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th, 67
(“Chang”). Chang stands for the proposition that an attorney who
drafts a will or trust owes no duty of care to a nonclient potential
beneficiary in absence of an executed will or trust instrument expressly
reflecting the testator’s intent to benefit the nonclient. Whether an attorney
owes a duty to a nonclient beneficiary is a question of law and a matter of
policy that involves the balancing of six factors, which are known as the Biakanja/Lucas
factors. These factors are: “[1] the extent to which the transaction was
intended to affect the plaintiff, [2] the foreseeability of harm to him, [3]
the degree of certainty that the plaintiff suffered injury, [4] the closeness
of the connection between the defendant's conduct and the injury, [5] the
policy of preventing future harm, and [6] whether the recognition of liability
to beneficiaries of wills negligently drawn by attorneys would impose an undue
burden on the profession.” (Chang, supra, at 83-84.) The Court
will address each in turn.
                                    
i.         
the
extent to which the transaction was intended to affect the plaintiff
            As the Complaint frames the
allegations, the only intention Plaintiff claims is not that she was to receive
any specific gift, but that she would be a realtor for the Properties to be
sold. (Complaint, ¶ 8.) This weighs against Plaintiff. 
                                  
ii.         
the
foreseeability of harm to him
            The foreseeability of harm is unclear, because the
primary difference between the two parties contentions is that Plaintiff
alleges the draft Amendment should have “required” Plaintiff to be the realtor,
instead Plaintiff alleges Defendant’s only “encouraged” the Trustee to engage
Plaintiff as the realtor. (Complaint, ¶¶ 19-20.)  Here, Chang itself closes off any
liability because when the claim is, as it is here, that the Amendment was
properly executed and free of legal defects, but simply does not accurately
express the testator’s intent, there is no liability on defendant to the
nonclient beneficiary. (Chang, supra, 82.) This weighs against
Plaintiff. 
                                
iii.         
the
degree of certainty that the plaintiff suffered injury
            Here, the degree of certainty is low
because before the completion of the Amendment, the Trustee fired Defendant.
Additionally, it appears, per the Complaint, that Defendant had in fact drafted
the Amendment as per Testator’s wishes and in accordance with Plaintiff’s own
contentions. (Complaint, ¶¶ 21-23.) However, without explanation, the Trustee discharged
Defendant, and informed Plaintiff she would no longer be the realtor for the
Properties. (Complaint, ¶ 24.) This factor weighs against Plaintiff. 
                                 
iv.         
the
closeness of the connection between the defendant's conduct and the injury
            The Complaint provides no facts
supporting a connection between Defendant’s conduct and the injury (see further
discussion below). This weighs against Plaintiff. 
                                   
v.         
the
policy of preventing future harm
            The policy of preventing future harm
here is unclear because as aforementioned, it appears that Defendant did in
fact draft the Amendment to as to enlist Plaintiff as the realtor, prior to
Defendant’s termination by Trustee. 
                                 
vi.         
whether
the recognition of liability to beneficiaries of wills negligently drawn by
attorneys would impose an undue burden on the profession
            The final factor weighs in favor of
Defendant. Imposing a duty upon Defendant where the primary contention is that
the Amendment does not accurately express the testator’s intent is contrary to Chang.
            Upon opposition, Plaintiff argues
that Chang is not controlling here. The Court disagrees. Chang
only provides two situations in which non-client beneficiaries are owed a duty
of care that it includes (1) when a will unambiguously states the testator’s
intention that a beneficiary receive a specific bequest and (2) when the
attorney drafted the instrument with a legal defect which results int eh
beneficiary not receiving the bequest the testator clearly intended. (Chang,
supra, at 82.) Neither of these situations apply here.  
b.     The Complaint Fails to show a proximate causal
connection between the breach and the resulting injury
            Not only do the Biakanja/Lucas
factors counsel against Plaintiff as a non-client potential beneficiary, but
the Complaint also fails to show a causal connection between Defendant’s
conduct, and Plaintiff’s harm. Plaintiff alleges that the commissions on the
sale of the Properties were in excess of $768,000.00. However, it is unclear
from the Complaint, what conduct Defendant took to have caused Plaintiff to be
removed as realtor for the Properties. 
            The Complaint is mainly used to
proffer a series of email conversations, between the Testator, Defendant,
Trustee, and internal conversations Defendant had in providing legal services
to Testator. Plaintiff alleges that at one point, Defendant drafted a pertinent
section to state that “The Trustee is authorized and encouraged to engage the
services of Fred Leeds and Chelle Johnson as real estate brokers to handle the
sale of real property owned by the Trust.” Per Plaintiff, this does not
effectuate Testator’s intent that Plaintiff be retained as the realtor.
(Complaint, ¶¶ 19-20.) 
            However, later, the Complaint
provides that, in an email sent by one of Defendant’s attorneys to Trustee in
an outline of tasks for the Trustee, Defendant’s attorney states  “Below is
a brief outline of those tasks, but the most important thing is that you call
us at that time so that we can help navigate you through your legal duties as
Trustee… 8. Retain Chelle Johnson, realtor, to sell [the Properties]…”
(Complaint, ¶ 21) The Complaint then notes that Trustee fired Defendant,
however, the Complaint gives no details as to why or what became of the
Amendment after the last series of emails. 
            The Complaint fails to show either a
legal duty or a causal connection between Defendant’s conduct and Plaintiff’s
injury, therefore, the Demurrer is sustained.  
 
            Legal Standard and Analysis for
Leave to Amend
            Leave
to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 [court shall not
“sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable
possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”]. As there may be
reasonable possibility of successful amendment, the Court grants leave to
amend. 
 
Conclusion
The Court
considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply. Defendant’s Demurrer to
Plaintiff’s Complaint is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
            It
is so ordered.
 
Dated: March 11, 2024
 
_______________________
Rolf M. Treu
Judge of the
Superior Court


