 Case Number:  23STCV12784    Hearing Date:   March 11, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of
California
County
of Los Angeles
 



 
CAMILO
  SALAZAR, an individual,
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
MIRACLE
  MILE PROPERTIES, LP, a Delaware Limited Partnership registered to do business
  in California; and DOES 1 through 30, inclusive,
 
                              Defendants.


Case No.:
  23STCV12784  
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed: June 5, 2023 
[1st
  Amended Complaint Filed: N/A]
Trial
  Date: None 



 
Hearing
date:              March
11, 2024
Moving
Party:             Defendant
Miracle Mile Properties, LP
Responding
Party:      Plaintiff
Camilo Salazar
Motion:
Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay or Dismiss Proceedings   
            The Court
considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply. Defendant’s Motion to
Compel Arbitration is GRANTED. The proceedings are stayed
until the completion of arbitration proceedings. 

 

Background
            This
case stems from alleged violations of numerous labor codes. Camilo Salazar
(Plaintiff) filed a Complaint containing eleven causes of action against his
former employer Miracle Mile Properties, LP (Defendant) on June 5, 2023. The
causes of action are as follows:
 
1.    
Failure To Pay All Minimum Wages
Earned (Lab. Code §§ 510, 1194, 1194.2 & 1198)
2.    
Failure To Pay All Overtime Wages
Earned (Lab. Code §§ 510, 1194, & 1198)
3.    
Failure To Provide Meal Periods
(Lab. Code §§ 226.7 & 512)
4.    
Failure To Provide Rest Periods
(Lab. Code §§ 226.7 & 512)
5.    
Failure To Pay All Wages Upon
Discharge, Waiting Time Penalties (Lab. Code §§ 201, 202, & 203)
6.    
Failure To Furnish Accurate Wage Statements
(Lab. Code §226)
7.    
Failure To Keep Accurate Payroll
Records (Lab. Code §§ 1174 & 1174.5)
8.    
Failure To Pay Reimbursements (Lab.
Code §§ 221 & 2802)
9.    
Unfair Competition (Bus. &
Prof. Code §§ 17200 Et Seq.)
10.  Failure
To Accommodate (Gov. Code § 12940(M))
11.  Constructive
Termination In Violation Of Public Policy
 
            Plaintiff
began working for Defendant in 2011 as a maintenance worker assigned to
maintain HVAC units in properties owned by Defendant. (Complaint, ¶ 13.)
Plaintiff’s work hours were from 9 A.M. to 6 P.M., Monday through Friday, and
was paid on an hourly basis. (Complaint, ¶ 15.) Plaintiff alleges that he was
regularly overloaded on daily assignments and began to accrue overtime through
no fault of his own. (Id. at ¶¶ 16-18.) Although Plaintiff was given a
pay raise in 2018, Plaintiff alleges that this was the last pay raise received
and noted that despite holding a valid HVAC technician certification, Defendant
improperly classified Plaintiff’s position to justify a lower pay rate. (Id.
at ¶ 20.)
            On
September 20 2021, Plaintiff was involved in a 4-vehicle accident while driving
between assigned worksites, suffering fractures to his ribs and sternum. (Id.
at ¶ 28.) Plaintiff then alleges that he did not receive proper treatment from
his assigned workers’ compensation doctor and was sent back to work too soon.
On December 20, 2021, Plaintiff returned to work, but complained to management
that he could not fulfill his job functions because of pain and loss of balance
caused by the accident. (Id. at ¶ 30.) After reasonable accommodation
requests were denied, Plaintiff fell off a stepladder on June 30, 2022.
Plaintiff has been on medical leave since then and has informed Defendants he
does not wish to resume employment. (Id. at ¶¶ 1 & 32.) Plaintiff
subsequently filed suit.
               The
motion before the Court now is Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration (the
Motion). Plaintiff opposes the Motion, and Defendant filed reply papers. 
Legal
Standard
            Under
both the Federal Arbitration Act and California law, arbitration agreements are
valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law
or equity for voiding a contract. (Winter v. Window Fashions Professions,
Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) The party moving to compel
arbitration must establish the existence of a written arbitration agreement
between the parties. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) 
            This
is usually done by presenting a copy of the signed, written agreement to the
court. “A petition to compel arbitration or to stay proceedings pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure sections 1281.2 and 1281.4 must state, in addition to
other required allegations, the provisions of the written agreement and the
paragraph that provides for arbitration. The provisions must be stated
verbatim, or a copy must be physically or electronically attached to the
petition and incorporated by reference.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330.) 
            The
moving party must also establish the other party’s refusal to arbitrate the
controversy. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) The filing of a lawsuit against the
moving party for a controversy clearly within the scope of the arbitration
agreement affirmatively establishes the other party’s refusal to arbitrate the
controversy. (Hyundai Amco America, Inc. v. S3H, Inc. (2014) 232
Cal.App.4th 572, 577.)
 
Evidentiary
Objections (if applicable)
            Concurrently
filed with their opposition papers, Plaintiff files objections to the
Declaration of Ronnie Atienza (Atienza Decl.). The Court rules as follows:
1.    
Objection 1 to Atienza Decl. ¶ 7:
Overruled
2.    
Objection 2 to Atienza Decl. ¶ 10:
Overruled
3.    
Objection 3 to Atienza Decl. ¶ 12:
Overruled
 
Discussion
            As
a preliminary matter, the existence of an arbitration agreement has been
established. (See Atienza Decl., Exhs. A & B.) Next, the Defendant has
shown that Plaintiff is unwilling to arbitrate.
            In
their opposition papers, Plaintiff asserts four main arguments contending that
the subject arbitration agreement (the Agreement) is unenforceable: (1) the
intent to arbitrate is unclear, (2) Defendant fails to make the requisite
showing that the FAA applies, (3) the Agreement contains substantial procedural
and substantive unconscionability and is therefore unenforceable, and (4)
Defendant waived their right to compel arbitration. The Court disagrees, takes
each contention in turn below, and grants the Motion.            
1.    
The
Intent to Arbitrate is Clear
            After
being employed by Defendant, Plaintiff signed at minimum two[1]
separate arbitration agreements: the first on January 16, 2015 (Atienza Decl.,
Exh A) and the second on December 19, 2016 (Atienza Decl., Exh. B). The second
arbitration agreement is the subject Agreement Defendant intends to enforce.[2]
Plaintiff argues that there was no meeting of the minds as to the 2015
Agreement, as he alleges that he was forced to sign the Agreement while under
the impression that he would lose his job if he did not. (Opposition Papers
6:23-26.) Plaintiff additionally argues the same as to the 2016 Agreement where
Plaintiff added the statement “I do not understand what all this mean or agreed
with it, but I sign for my job sake” just above his signature. (6:26-28 and
7:1-4.) Plaintiff’s primary argument here is that he felt he needed to sign the
Agreements or lose his job. 
            First,
for purposes of both this section and where the Court addresses
unconscionability below, Plaintiff concedes the following: (1) Plaintiff became
a consumer electronics technician in 1991 through Santa Ana College
(Declaration of Camilo Salazar, hereinafter Salazar Decl., ¶ 3.), (2) Plaintiff
obtained his HVAC certification in 2006 through LA Trade Tech College (Id.),
and (3) Plaintiff considers himself bilingual in both English and Spanish. (Id.)
The Court notes that the 2015 Agreement was only three pages long, and the 2016
Agreement was two pages long.              Plaintiff argues that he was under
the belief that in order to maintain his employment he would need to sign the
documents immediately but provides no further information to substantiate this
belief. Additionally, there is nothing in the Salazar Decl. or Plaintiff’s
opposition papers that indicates Plaintiff could not ask questions or request
time to understand the provisions of the 2015 or 2016 Agreements before
signing.    Moreover, with regard to
Plaintiff’s note on the 2016 Agreement, there is no indication that Plaintiff
ever asked for clarification of the documents prior to signing. In so signing,
Plaintiff indicated his intention to arbitrate. Case law supports this
finding.    
            In
Randas v. YMCA of Metropolitan Los Angeles, (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th,
158 a swimmer who was literate in Greek, but not English, signed a release
in order to attend a swimming class. (Randas, supra at 160.) After
slipping and filing on a wet tile, she filed suit against the YMCA. Plaintiff
in that case argued that the release was invalid because she could not read it,
however, the Court ruled that “…one who signs an instrument may not avoid the
impact of its terms on the ground that he failed to read the instrument before
signing it.” (Id. at 163). The Randas Court continued, stating
that “Ordinarily, one who accepts or signs an instrument, which on its face is
a contract, is deemed to assent to all its terms, and cannot escape liability
on the ground that he has not read it. If he cannot read, he should have it
read or explained to him.” (Id.) 
            Second,
only the 2015 agreement places continuing employment as contigent upon signing,
nothing in the 2016 Agreement states that Plaintiff’s employment was contingent
on him signing the Agreement.  (See
Atienza Decl., Exhs. A & B.) Assuming arguendo that both Agreements place
Plaintiff’s continued employment contingent upon signing either Agreement, this
factor, in and of itself presents a low level of procedural unconscionability (Cisneros
Alvarez v. Altamed Health Services Corporation (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th
572, 591, “Cisneros”), and certainly has no bearing on the parties’
intention to arbitrate. Therefore, the Court finds that both parties intended
to arbitrate in accordance with the Agreements signed.      
2.    
The Federal Arbitration Act Applies
            Plaintiff’s
second argument is that Defendant failed to make the requisite showing that the
FAA applies to the 2016 Agreement. The Court disagrees. 
            Defendant
demonstrates they regularly purchase supplies and equipment from numerous
supplies, and that those supplies are transported across state lines for MPP.
Moreover, in Circuit City Stores, Inc. v. Adams (2001) 532 U.S. 105,
105-106, the United States Supreme Court made it profusely clear that the FAA
applies to all employment contracts except those of transportation workers. Therefore,
the FAA applies.
3.    
There is insufficient
unconscionability to nullify the Agreement
            Plaintiff’s
third argument is that the Agreement was both procedurally and substantively
unconscionable so as to render the Agreement unenforceable. Unconscionability
has both a procedural and a substantive element, the former focusing on oppression
or surprise due to unequal bargaining power, the latter on overly harsh or
one-sided results. (Carlson
v. Home Team Pest Defense, Inc. (2015), 239 Cal.App.4th 619,
630. “Carlson”) The prevailing view is that
procedural and substantive unconscionability must both be present in order for
a court to exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause
under the doctrine of unconscionability, but they need not be present in the
same degree. (Id.) 
a.     
Procedural Unconscionability
            “Procedural unconscionability exists
when the stronger party drafts the contract and presents it to the weaker party
on a take-it-or-leave-it basis.” (Carlson, supra, at 631.) “However, the
fact that the arbitration agreement is an adhesion contract does not render it
automatically unenforceable as unconscionable.” (Id., internal citations
omitted.) Instead, to determine whether an arbitration agreement satisfies the
“procedural element of unconscionability,” courts focus on “two factors:
oppression and surprise.” [citation] ‘Oppression’ arises from an inequality of
bargaining power which results in no real negotiation and ‘an absence of
meaningful choice.’ [Citations; cleaned up.] ‘Surprise’ involves the extent to
which the supposedly agreed-upon terms of the bargain are hidden in the prolix
printed form drafted by the party seeking to enforce the disputed terms.” (Id.)
Additionally, the lone factor of placing an
employee’s continued employment contingent upon signing either Agreement in and
of itself presents only a low level of procedural unconscionability (Cisneros,
supra, at 591.)
            Plaintiff argues that the
contingency of Plaintiff’s employment is sufficient to render the Agreement
procedurally unconscionable. As aforementioned, Cisneros counsels
otherwise. Plaintiff then claims that because his first language is Spanish,
that the Agreement is procedurally unconscionable because he was not provided
with a translated copy of the same. However, the aforementioned Randas
and Cisneros provides law to the contrary. In Randas the
plaintiff was wholly illiterate in English, however the Court still held that
plaintiff there was responsible for understanding the Agreement. Cisneros
is even more similar to the case before the Court, the plaintiff there was
bilingual, and confirmed their comfort with speaking and reading English. (Cisneros,
supra, at 589.) Here, the Plaintiff relocated to the U.S. in 1974,
became a consumer electronics technician in 1991, then obtained their HVAC
certification in 2006. (Salazar Decl., ¶ 3.) Although English may be
Plaintiff’s second language, there is no support in Plaintiff’s filings that
the Agreement was in any way incomprehensible to Plaintiff. Therefore, the
Court finds little procedural unconscionability here.       
b.    
Substantive Unconscionability
            “Substantive
unconscionability addresses the fairness of the term in dispute; substantive
unconscionability traditionally involves contract terms that are so one-sided
as to shock the conscience, or that impose harsh or oppressive terms.” (Brown
v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 938, 956,
internal quotations omitted.)
            Although
Plaintiff states that a contract is unconscionable when the substantive terms
of the contract reveal that the contract terms unreasonably favor one party
(Opposition Papers, 7:22-25), no facts are given to substantiate that this is
what occurred here. For example, in Carlson, the court found substantive
unconscionability where the defendant retained the right to file a lawsuit,
while the plaintiff-former employee did not. (Carlson, supra, at
635-636.) Similarly, in Baxter v. Genworth North America Corp., (2017)
16 Cal.App.5th 713 (“Baxter”), the court found substantive
unconscionability where the employer was permitted to contact other employees
during the arbitration process, but the plaintiff-employee was not. (Baxter,
supra, 724-725.) However, here, Plaintiff makes no such claim, and after
review of both the 2015 and 2016 Agreements, the Court sees no grounds for one.

4.    
Defendant did not waiver their
right to compel arbitration 
            Finally,
Plaintiff argues that Defendant waived their right to compel arbitration
because (1) the action has been pending since June 5, 2023 and (2) Defense
counsel asked for two successive extensions of time to respond to written
discovery propounded upon Defendant.  
            When
evaluating whether a party has waived their right to compel arbitration Iskanian
v. CLS Transportation Los Angeles, LLC (2014) 59 Cal.4th 348 (“Iskanian”),
is instructive: “…the following factors are relevant to the waiver inquiry: “ ‘
“(1) whether the party's actions are inconsistent with the right to arbitrate;
(2) whether ‘the litigation machinery has been substantially invoked’ and the
parties ‘were well into preparation of a lawsuit’ before the party notified the
opposing party of an intent to arbitrate; (3) whether a party either requested
arbitration enforcement close to the trial date or delayed for a long period
before seeking a stay; (4) whether a defendant seeking arbitration filed a
counterclaim without asking for a stay of the proceedings; (5) ‘whether
important intervening steps [e.g., taking advantage of judicial discovery
procedures not available in arbitration] had taken place’; and (6) whether the
delay ‘affected, misled, or prejudiced’ the opposing party.” (Iskanian,
supra, at 375.) (internal quotations and citations omitted.)
            First,
the Court sees no actions in this case taken by Defendant that were in direct
conflict with its intention to arbitrate. Fulfilling discovery obligations is
not inconsistent with the intent to arbitrate, but rather a requirement
demanded by statute. Similarly, discovery obligations, though crucial to
litigation, are not generally considered as a substantial invocation of the
litigation machinery. Plaintiff next contends that waiting six months to file
the Motion when the case commenced on June 5, 2023 is dilatory. However, as
Defendant points out, parties have waited far longer, and still retained their
right to compel arbitration. (Khalatian v. Prime Time Shuttle, Inc. (2015)
237 Cal.App.4th 651, 663. [“Finally, even though there was a
14-month period from the filing of the original complaint to the filing of the
motion to compel, absent prejudice, the delay is insufficient to support the
waiver.”]) Additionally, no counterclaim has been filed here, trial has not
been set, and Plaintiff fails to demonstrate prejudice. Therefore, Defendant
did not waive their right to compel arbitration. 
 
Conclusion
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration is GRANTED. The proceedings are stayed until
the completion of arbitration. 
 
            It
is so ordered.
 
Dated: March 8, 2024 
 
_______________________
Rolf M. Treu
Judge of the
Superior Court


