 Case Number:  22SMCV04787    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  O   Case
Name:  Myers, et al. v. Kenmore Realty
Corp., et al. 



Case No.:


223SMCV04787


Complaint Filed:


10-10-23         




Hearing Date:


3-12-24 


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


13


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


None



SUBJECT:                 MOTION TO STRIKE
MOVING
PARTY:   Defendants Kenmore Realty
Corp and Farhad Eshaghpour
RESP.
PARTY:         Plaintiff Andrew Myers
and David Desmond
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Defendants
Kenmore Realty Corp and Farhad Eshaghpours’ Motion to Strike Plaintiffs Andrew
Myers and David Desmonds’ Punitive Damages allegations and Prayer for Punitive
damages is DENIED. Plaintiffs plead sufficient factual allegations for a jury
to possibly find Defendants acted with malice towards the Plaintiffs.
 
            “As the
California Supreme Court long ago explained: “ ‘Exemplary or punitive damages
are not recoverable as matter of right. Their allowance rests entirely in the
discretion of the jury, and they may be awarded only where there is some
evidence of fraud, malice, express or implied, or oppression.’ ” (Spinks v.
Equity Residential Briarwood Apartments (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1004, 1052, quoting
Clark v. McClurg (1932) 215 Cal. 279, 282.)
 
            “As
longstanding authority makes clear, punitive damages may be awarded in an
action by a residential tenant based on the landlord's interference with
peaceful possession.” (Spinks, supra, 171 Cal.App.4th at
p. 1055.)
 
            Plaintiffs plead
numerous facts alleging Defendants interference with the peaceful possession
the Plaintiffs’ rent-stabilized unit. Specifically, Plaintiffs allege that
their downstairs neighbor began a campaign of harassment and intimidation
against them. (Compl., ¶¶13–16.) Plaintiffs allege that the Defendants
intentionally chose not to take reasonable measures to prevent this campaign
because they wanted to force the Plaintiffs to vacate the property so that they
could re-lease the premises at a market rate, rather than the rental rate
mandated by the West Hollywood Rent Stabilization Ordinance. (Id., ¶¶
21–22.) Plaintiffs allege that they ultimately fled the property in fear for
their lives after repeated pleas to the Defendants to address the threats from
the downstairs neighbor failed. (Id., ¶ 19.) Plaintiffs further allege
that the landlord changed the locks to the building where their apartment is
located, further dispossessing them of the ability to access their apartment. (Id.,
¶ 21.) Plaintiffs allege that these acts violated the West Hollywood
anti-tenant harassment ordinance, codified at City of West Hollywood Municipal
Code §17.52.090 (Id., ¶ 36.) The Court finds that these allegations are
sufficient for the jury to possibly find that Defendants acted with malice
towards the Plaintiffs.
 

            Thus, Defendants Kenmore Realty Corp and Farhad
Eshaghpours’ Motion to Strike Plaintiffs Andrew Myers and David Desmonds’
Punitive Damages allegations and Prayer for Punitive damages is DENIED