 Case Number:  23SMCV004428    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  O   Case
Name:  Longmire v. Blaske



Case No.:


23SMCV04428


Complaint Filed:


9-21-23           




Hearing Date:


3-12-24 


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


12


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


None



SUBJECT:                 DEMURRER WITH MOTION TO STRIKE
MOVING
PARTY:   Defendant Brandy Blaske
RESP.
PARTY:         No responding party as
of 3-6-24 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Defendant Brady Blaske’s Demurrer to Plaintiff Michael
Allen Longmire’s first and only cause of action within his complaint for breach
of contract is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend.  Plaintiff fails to allege damages which resulted
from the breach of contract. 
 
            Defendant Brady Blaske’s Motion to Strike Punitive
Damages is SUSTAINED for the breach of contract cause of action. Punitive
damages are not allowed in a breach of contract cause of action pursuant to Civ.
Code § 3294.
 
            The essential elements of breach of contract are “(1) the
existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff's performance or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the
plaintiff." (D'Arrigo Bros. of California v. United Farmworkers of
America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 790, 800; see CACI No. 303.)
 
            Plaintiff
Michael Allen Longmire (“Longmire”) pleads the existence of a contract
in the alternate agreement where Defendant Brady Blaske (“Blaske”) “was to
provide unlimited (no end date), access to her Fiji Water account for his use
for his distribution company, to which Ms. Blaske agreed to in writing.”
(Compl., p. 3.) Longmire pleads in return for the access to Blaske’s fiji water
account he agreed to not press domestic violence charges against Blaske. (Ibid.)  Longmire pleads breach by alleging “In March
2023, Ms. Blaske breached her contractual agreement with Mr. Longmire by
terminating his access to her Fiji water account and without notice or
communication.” (Ibid.) However, Longmire does not plead resulting
damages from the alleged breach of contract regarding unlimited use of the Fiji
water account. Longmire alleges damages which occurred prior to the breach
including damage to Longmire’s vehicle “inflicted in May 2021,” and lost wages on
5-3-21 from lack of transportation but does not allege any damages resulting
directly from the breach of contract at issue. 
 
            Thus, Blaske’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave
to amend. 
 
            Additionally, Blaske moves to strike the prayer for
punitive damage from the complaint. The only cause of action in Longmire’s complaint
is for breach of contract. “[P]unitive or exemplary damages, which are designed
to punish and deter statutorily defined types of wrongful conduct, are
available only in actions ‘for breach of an obligation not arising from
contract. In the absence of an independent tort, punitive damages may not be
awarded for breach of contract even where the defendant's conduct in breaching
the contract was willful, fraudulent, or malicious.” Cates Construction,
Inc. v. Talbot Partners (1999) 21 Cal.4th 28, 61; see Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (a).) Therefore, punitive damages are not allowed in this complaint for
breach of contract alone. 
 
            Thus, Blaske’s Motion to Strike Punitive Damages is
GRANTED.