 Case Number:  22STCV16658    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


March
  13, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV16658




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Leave to Conduct Independent Medical Examination




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Maria Villalon, Eric Villalon,
  and Armando Villalon




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Terecita Sanchez



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On May 19, 2022, Plaintiff Terecita Reynaga-Sanchez
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Maria Villalon, Eric
Villalon, and Armando Villalon (“Defendants”) for damages related to a motor
vehicle accident that allegedly occurred on June 15, 2020.  
 
            Defendants
now move for leave to conduct a neuropsychological examination of Plaintiff,
with Dr. Manuel Saint Martin, M.D. on March 20, 2024. Plaintiff opposes and
Defendants reply. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“If any
party desires to obtain discovery by a physical examination other than that
described in Article 2 (commencing with Section 2032.210), or by a mental
examination, the party shall obtain leave of court.  A motion for an examination under subdivision
(a) shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person
or persons who will perform the examination. The motion shall be accompanied by
a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”  (Civ. Proc., §
2032.310, subds. (a)-(b).)  
 
“The court
shall grant a motion for a physical or mental examination under Section
2032.310 only for good cause shown.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd.
(a); see also Sporich v. Superior Court (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 422, 427
[“the good cause which must be shown should be such that will satisfy an
impartial tribunal that the request may be granted without abuse of the
inherent rights of the adversary”].) A showing of good cause generally requires
“that the party produce specific facts justifying discovery and that the
inquiry be relevant to the subject matter of the action or reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Vinson v.
Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.)  And “[a] party who chooses
to allege that he has mental and emotional difficulties can hardly deny his
mental state is in controversy.”  (Id. at p.
839.)   
 
The examination
will be limited to whatever condition is “in controversy” in the action.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc. §2032.020(a).)¿ This means the examination must be directly related
to the specific injury or condition that is the subject of the litigation.¿ (Roberts
v. Superior Court (1973) 9 Cal.3d 330, 337.)¿ Often, a party's pleadings
put his or her mental or physical condition in controversy ... as when a
plaintiff claims continuing mental or physical injury resulting from
defendant's acts: “A party who chooses to allege that he has mental and
emotional difficulties can hardly deny his mental state is in controversy.”¿
(See Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 837, wherein the
plaintiff claimed ongoing emotional distress from sexual harassment by former
employer.)¿ Discovery responses can also frame the issues regarding the
injuries and damages alleged.¿¿ 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Mark P. LaScola shows that counsel for Defendants
have attempted to notice and schedule this examination since August 2023.  Though the efforts were not fruitful, it
appears Defendants’ counsel made reasonable attempts to resolve the issue. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Plaintiff has alleged mental injuries such as cognitive issues,
post-traumatic stress disorder, mild neurocognitive disorder, anxiety disorder,
major depressive disorder, and insomnia. (LaScola Decl. ¶ 4, Exh, A, FROG, 6.2,
6.3.)  Plaintiff already underwent a
physical examination under Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.220(a). 
 
Defendants seek leave to conduct a neuropsychological examination of
Plaintiff, with Dr. Manuel Saint Martin, M.D. on March 20, 2024. The
examination will take place at Dr. Martin’s office at 9:00 a.m. Defendants have
listed the tests that may be used at this examination. (Motion, 4–5.) The
examination is reserved for eight hours, but Defendants assert that the length
of the examination will also be affected by the number of breaks Plaintiff
requires, and her cooperation. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues the proposed tests are ineffective or
invalid, and cites to various journals. Plaintiff also contends that without
any recording of the examination, it will be unclear how long the examiner
spent on each test. Plaintiff asks for the court to allow Plaintiff’s attorney
to attend, or in the alternative, to limit the examination to four hours, to
prohibit the examiner from asking questions about the litigation, rather than
the underlying injuries, to prohibit questions about attorney client
communications, work product, body parts not at issue, and Plaintiff’s financial
status. Plaintiff seeks to have the entire examination recorded. 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.530 expressly states “[t]he
examiner and examinee shall have the right to record a mental examination by
audio technology.” 
 
In reply, Defendants argue that the issues raised in the opposition
were never raised during the meet and confer process. Defendants also agree to
the audio recording if the recording is immediately sent to Plaintiff’s neuropsychological
expert. Defendants argue that transmitting raw test data to non-psychologists
could compromise future use of the tests. The Court of Appeal in Randy’s Trucking
upheld the trial court’s decision directing a neuropsychologist to transmit an
examination recording to the plaintiff’s counsel on multiple grounds, such as
protecting against abuses and disputes over what transpired during the
examination, ensuring the examiner does not overstep the bounds set by the
court for the mental examination, and enabling the attorney to have more than a
second-hand understanding of the information being scrutinized. (Randy's
Trucking, Inc. v. Superior Court of Kern County (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 818,
838.) 
 
The Court grants the request to conduct a neuropsychological
examination and grants Plaintiff’s request to record the examination. To the
extent that Defendants seek a protective order regarding the recording, the
Court would consider a protective order that limits disclosure of the recording
to counsel for Plaintiff and any experts. The Court overrules Plaintiff’s
objections to the particular tests; the issues raised can be explored in
cross-examination of the expert. The Court denies Plaintiff’s request to have
an attorney present at the examination as the recording will adequately protect
Plaintiff’s interests. In addition, the Court denies Plaintiff’s requests to
limit the examination in time and manner of questioning, except that the
examination should be limited to the areas of questioning and the amount of
time necessary for the expert to reach his opinions, and may not improperly
invade on the attorney-client privilege.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’
motion for
leave to conduct Plaintiff’s neuropsychological examination of
Plaintiff is GRANTED. Plaintiff shall be permitted to record the
examination pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.530. 
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof
of service of such. 