 Case Number:  22STCV14260    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


March
  13, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV14260




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Armando Castillo




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the petition
filed on January 3, 2024 by Petitioner Armando Castillo (Petitioner) on behalf
of Claimant Angela Castillo, age 17. The Court denies the petition without prejudice for the following
reasons:
 
Petitioner asserts that Claimant is fully recovered.
However, the most recent medical report from July 13, 2022 indicates that
Claimant was still experiencing symptoms from the injury. The Court requires a
more recent report or medical record, or a declaration, that can confirm that
Claimant is fully recovered. 
 
Petitioner requests $1,000 in attorney fees. This amount
represents 22.5% of the gross settlement. The Court finds this amount to be
reasonable. 
 
Petitioner must correct the proposed order (MC-351) by
including the gross settlement amount in item 6 (as opposed to the net
settlement amount).
 
Petitioner shall give notice and file a
proof of service of such.
 