 Case Number:  21STCV34815    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


March
  13, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV34815




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Documents in First Amended Deposition Notice 




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Southern California Edison
  Company




OPPOSING PARTY:


None
  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
September 21, 2021, Plaintiff Alejandro Choy (“Plaintiff”), filed a complaint
against Defendant Southern California Gas Company and Does 1 to 50 for injuries
sustained after allegedly falling through a manhole.  On October 31, 2022,
Plaintiff amended the complaint to allege Southern California Edison Company as
Doe 1.   
 
On
October 13, 2023, Defendant served a deposition notice on Plaintiff, requesting
a deposition and request for production on October 24, 2023. (Yegazarian Decl.
¶ 8, Exh. D.) Plaintiff did not file any objections and appeared for the
deposition without producing said documents. (Ibid.) 
 
Defendant
now moves to compel the production of the documents requested in the deposition
notice. Defendant also seeks monetary sanctions. No opposition has been filed. 
 
As
an initial matter, Defendant brings this motion under Code of Civil Procedure
section 2030.010 et seq. However, since the request for documents was contained
in a deposition notice, the proper basis for the motion is through Code of
Civil Procedure section 2025.480. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.480,
 
“(a)
If a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the deponent's
control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena,
the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order compelling that
answer or production.
(b)
This motion shall be made no later than 60 days after the completion of the
record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040.”
 
“If
the court determines that the answer or production sought is subject to
discovery, it shall order that the answer be given or the production be made on
the resumption of the deposition.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.480(i).) 
 
“The
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel an answer or production, unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2025.480(j).) 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
After the October 24, 2023 deposition, Defendant sent a meet and
confer letter addressing the missing documents from the deposition. (Yegazarian
Decl. ¶ 9, Exh. E.) Plaintiff did not respond. Therefore, Defendant made a good
faith effort to meet and confer.  
 
DISCUSSION
 
As an initial matter, this motion is timely since the deposition took
place on October 24, 2023, and Defendant filed this motion on November 14,
2023. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.480(b).) 
 
Here, Plaintiff appeared for his deposition on October 24, 2023,
but failed to produce any of the documents requested in the deposition notice. Defendant
asserts that Plaintiff did not read the contents of the notice and did not
serve objections. (Id. ¶ 8; Motion, 6.) 
 
            The
subject deposition notice requests production of safety materials from
Sparkletts, worker’s compensation records, medical records, and writings
pertaining to the incident. Plaintiff does not oppose this motion, and there is
no indication that he asserted timely objections. Accordingly, the motion to
compel is granted. 
 
            Defendant also seeks $675 in
monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and his counsel of record, representing work
done by two attorneys ($250 hourly rate for 1.5 hours and a $200 hourly rate
for 1.5 hours). The Court finds sanctions are warranted but the amount
requested in excessive. Therefore, the Court awards sanctions in the amount of
$400 (two hours of work at the $200 hourly rate).[1] 
 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, Plaintiff’s motion to Compel Documents in Plaintiff’s First
Amended Deposition Notice is GRANTED. Plaintiff shall provide responses to the
production requests within 30 days.   
 
            The Court further grants Defendant’s
request for monetary sanctions in the reduced amount of $400 against Plaintiff
and his counsel of record, jointly and severally. Said monetary sanctions are
to be paid to counsel for Defendant within 30 days of this order. 
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 


