


[1]
This appears to be an attempt to challenge the sufficiency of the evidence, in
reverse. In other words, Plaintiff seems to argue that since there was
sufficient evidence for Plaintiff to prevail, and they did not win, the award was
wrongly issued. That is not the law.


[2]Actually, the arbitrator considered and rejected
Plaintiff’s argument. Plaintiff argued in his closing brief that an employer cannot
terminate an employees on leave. This misstates the law.  The arbitrator noted this misstatement and
refuted the claim by citing to Tomlinson
v. Qualcomm, Inc. (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 934, 940 [“the guarantee of reinstatement to the same or comparable
position does not preclude an employer from terminating the employee's
employment as part of a work force reduction.”].)


[3]The Court is puzzled by this contention. The Court reviewed
the impeachment evidence that was purportedly excluded. (Denis Dec. at ¶6 [“The
significance of the unfair ‘gift’ given to Mr. Kull and Lobster by this strange
and extraordinary ‘ruling’ of the Arbitrator is evident from what the
deposition transcript contained. Armstrong in deposition admitted that when
employees go out on medical leave that he receives notice and knew Prell was on
leave. (Armstrong depo Page 74:5 to 74:24; 162:4 to 162: 12 ). Before the
re-opening, Mickey Barnes, the GM most were happy with was also terminated via
pretext who was over 53 years old. (Forseth, Pociecha) On February I, 2021 ,
Claimant learned that Barnes had been fired and inquired that he would be able
to return to work on February 23, 2021 so he sent an email showing his strong
desire to return to work with the Lobster and in fact sent at least two emails
expressing his desire to return. (Ex. 628) The email from Luis Garcia was
forwarded to Armstrong who forwarded it to Mr. Robert Kull on February 3, 2021.
(Id.) Within days of the email being forwarded to Kull, Claimant was terminated
on February 8, 2021 and Mr. Armstrong admitted that Mr. Kull was aware of the
Mr. Prell being on disability leave when he was terminated. Further, Mr.
Armstrong admitted that he had HR training, where he should have known that
terminating an employee on medical leave was illegal, especially without an
interactive process. However, he did admit to now knowing what an interactive
process.”].)  Plaintiff raised a
substantially similar argument in their closing brief. (Denis Dec. Ex. 1, Closing
Brief at p. 9, [“Within days of the email being forwarded to Kull, Claimant was
terminated on February 8, 2021 and Mr. Arn1strong admitted that Mr. Kull was
aware of the Mr. Prell being on disability leave when he was terminated.
Further, Mr. Armstrong admitted that he had HR training, where he should have
known that tenninating [sic] an employee on medical leave was illegal,
especially without an interactive process. However, he did admit to now knowing
what an interactive process was.”].) 


[4]Among
the contentions is that the arbitrator ignored  prehearing Order No. 4. The Court reviewed the
order. The Cort disagrees. The arbitrator did not violate or misapply the order
in issuing the Award. 


[5]For example, the arbitrator began by crediting the
employer’s explanation that terminating Plaintiff was for valid, non-discriminatory
reasons. “As Govind Armstrong testified. he decided not to pursue Mr. Prell to
return to employment because in his assessment (and as his contemporaneous
notes regarding prospective re-hires stated), Mr. Prell was unreliable and
showed ‘poor judgment.’ Some of the instances Mr. Armstrong recalled as
evidence of this unreliability and poor judgment were Mr. Prells soliciting
fellow employees to borrow money, his improper or deficient ‘tipping out’ with
respect to others (busboys or bar-tenders during bis shift), his frequent
placing of ‘special orders’ in the kitchen (off-menu items) causing disruption,
and a particularly egregious event when a group of guests dissatisfied with Mr.
Prell 's service and/or their meal, left without paying after Mr. Prell
returned their credit card to them against company policy. Mr. Armstrong and
others also testified to Mr. Prell’s not being at as high a level of
performance as he seemed to deem himself (he considered himself at times one of
the three best servers at The Lobster).” (Award at p. 13.) Then, the arbitrator
applied these factual findings to the law. 
“[T]he ultimate issue is
simply whether the employer acted with a motive to discriminate illegally. Guz
v. Bechtel National, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 358. Thus, the legitimate
reasons stated and shown are facially unrelated to any prohibited bias and
preclude a finding of discrimination by The Lobster with respect to the
termination or decision not to rehire Claimant.” (Award at p. 16.) The
arbitrator also firmly rejected Plaintiff’s other claims. “There is no basis
for Claimant's accusations that the employer took adverse employment action
against Claimant in the form of retaliation, failure to accommodate, failure to
engage in an interactive process to identify or implement an effective,
reasonable accommodation for an employee with a disability or family leave
need.” (Award at p. 16.) Similarly, the arbitrator rejected the failure to accommodate
claim based on findings of fact and law. “Mr. Prell affirmatively informed each
of them that he needed no further accommodation. As for the disability leaves
requested, any additional accommodation or interactive process was uncalled for
and would have been pointless because Mr. Prell received the full accommodation
he requested without question, and Mr. Prell gave the restaurant no information
regarding a need for anything further.” (Award at p. 20.) 
 
 

