  Case Number:  21STCV47142    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   April
11, 2024                                     
 
CASE NAME:            Chris
Prell v. The Lobster LLC
 
CASE NO.:                21STCV47142

 
PETITION
TO CONFIRM ARBITRATION AWARD

 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant The Lobster, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Chris Prell
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      
Confirm
arbitration award.
 
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      The
Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award is GRANTED.
2.      The
Motion to Vacate Arbitration Award is DENIED.
 
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On December 6, 2023, Arbitrator Lizbeth Hasse (the
Arbitrator) issued an Arbitration Award in favor of Respondent The Lobster, LLC
and against Claimant Chris Prell, with no fees or costs awarded to Respondent.
The Final Award finds that Respondent did not discriminate against Claimant due
to age or disability, did not deny him any entitlement to accommodation or
interactive process due to a known disability, did not subject him to
harassment, and did not retaliate against Claimant or wrongfully terminate or
fail to re hire him. The Final Award requires a denial of all relief sought by
Chris Prell. 
 
Defendant filed the instant Petition to Confirm Arbitration
Award on December 18, 2023. On March 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. To
date, no reply has been filed.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
“Any party to an arbitration in which an award has been made
may petition the court to confirm, correct or vacate the award.  The petition shall name as respondent all
parties to the arbitration and may name as respondents any other persons bound
by the arbitration award.” (Code Civ. Proc., (CCP) § 1285.) “If a petition or
response under this chapter is duly served and filed, the court shall confirm
the award as made, whether rendered in this state or another state, unless in
accordance with this chapter it corrects the award and confirms it as
corrected, vacates the award or dismisses the proceeding.” (CCP § 1286.)
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Filing Requirements of a Petition to Confirm
Arbitration Award (CCP § 1285.4) 
 
Code of
Civil Procedure section 1285.4 states: “A petition under this chapter shall: 
 
a.                  
Set forth the substance of or
have attached a copy of the agreement to arbitrate unless the petitioner denies
the existence of such an agreement. 
 
b.                 
Set forth the names of the
arbitrators. 
 
(c) Set forth or have attached a copy of the award and the
written opinion of the arbitrators, if any.” 
 
(CCP § 1285.4 (emphasis added).) 
 
Here, Defendant attached a copy
of the JAMS Arbitration case no. 5220001457 final award. (Pet., Exhib. S(c).)
Defendant also identified the arbitrator. (Id.)

 
Therefore, the requirements under
CCP § 1285.4 have been met.
 
Service of the Petition and Notice of Hearing (CCP §
1290.4) 
¿ 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1290.4 states in pertinent
part:  
 
(a) A copy
of the petition and a written notice of the time and place of the hearing
thereof and any other papers upon which the petition is based shall be served
in the manner provided in the arbitration agreement for the service of such
petition and notice. 
 
(b) If the
arbitration agreement does not provide the manner in which such service shall
be made and the person upon whom service is to be made has not previously
appeared in the proceeding and has not previously been served in accordance
with this subdivision: ¶ (1) Service within this State shall be made in the
manner provided by law for the service of summons in an action. 
 
(CCP § 1290.4.) 
 
Here, Defendant filed a proof of service indicating service
on Plaintiff on December 18, 2023 via electronic service.
 
Therefore, the requirements of CCP § 1290.4 have been met.  
 
Service of the Arbitration Award (CCP § 1283.6) 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
Code of Civil Procedure section
1283.6 provides that: “The neutral arbitrator shall serve a signed copy of the award on each party to the arbitration
personally or by registered or certified mail or as provided in the
agreement.”¿This requirement may be satisfied by service by the arbitrator or
upon proper service of the Award with the Petition. (See Murry v. Civil Service Employees Ins. Co. (1967) 254 Cal.App.2d
796, 799-800.) 
 
The Court finds Code of Civil
Procedure section 1283.6 is satisfied.  
 
Timing of Service of Petition (CCP §§ 1288, 1288.4) 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿  
A party may seek a court judgment
confirming an arbitration award by filing and serving a petition no more than
four years, but not less than 10 days, after the award is served. (CCP §§ 1288, 1288.4.) 
 
Defendant filed the instant
petition approximately 12 days after service of the Award, making it timely
under Code of Civil Procedure sections 1288 and 1288.4.  
 
Merits of the
Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award  
 
“It
is well settled that the scope of judicial review of arbitration awards is
extremely narrow.” (California
Faculty Assn. v. Superior Court¿(1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 935, 943.) As
previously indicated, “[o]nce a petition to
confirm an award is filed, the superior court must select one of only four
courses of action: it may confirm the award, correct and confirm it, vacate it,
or dismiss the petition.” (EHM
Productions, Inc. v. Starline Tours of Hollywood, Inc.¿(2018) 21
Cal.App.5th 1058, 1063.)  “Neither the trial court, nor the appellate
court, may ‘review the merits of the dispute, the sufficiency of the evidence, or the arbitrator’s reasoning, nor may
we correct or review an award because of an arbitrator’s legal or factual error, even if it appears on the award’s face.
Instead, we restrict our review to whether the award should be vacated under
the grounds listed in section 1286.2. [Citations.]’” (Id. at p. 1063, emphasis added.) 
 
Defendant has demonstrated that on December 6, 2023, the
arbitrator issued an Arbitration Award in its favor and against Plaintiff.
However, Plaintiff opposes the petition to confirm for numerous reasons. Plaintiff
argues that the arbitrator’s decision should be vacated pursuant to section
1286.2(A)(4). 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
1286.2, subdivision (a), states, in pertinent part:  
 
“Subject to Section 1286.4, the court shall vacate the
award if the court determines any of the following: 
 
(1) The award was procured by
corruption, fraud or other undue means. 
(2) There was corruption in any
of the arbitrators. 
(3) The rights of the party were substantially prejudiced
by misconduct of a neutral arbitrator. 
(4) The arbitrators exceeded their powers and the award
cannot be corrected without affecting the merits of the decision upon the
controversy submitted. 
(5) The rights of the parties were substantially prejudiced
by the refusal of the arbitrators to postpone the hearing upon sufficient cause
being shown therefor or by the refusal of the arbitrators to hear evidence
material to the controversy or by other conduct of the arbitrators contrary to
the provisions of this title. 
(6) An arbitrator making the award  . . . (B) was
subject to disqualification upon grounds specified in Section 1281.91 but
failed upon receipt of timely demand to disqualify himself or herself as
required by that provision. . . .” 
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 1286.2, subd. (a).) 
 
Only where both (1) the arbitrator abused his or her
discretion and (2) there was resulting prejudice, can a trial court properly
vacate an arbitration award. (SWAB
Financial, LLC v. E*Trade Securities, LLC (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 1181,
1198.) 
 
Plaintiff states
that the arbitrator exceeded her powers under section 1286.2 for several
reasons , including the following: By ignoring the parties’ agreement to follow
California law and JAMS rules. In particular, Plaintiff claims that the
arbitrator refused to follow the statutory framework and related public
policies behind the FEHA body of law in determining that Plaintiff did not
carry his burden to establish his claims by a preponderance of the evidence.
Under the applicable burden of proof, Plaintiff asserts that he easily prevails
in proving several bases of liability.[1]
 
Plaintiff also contends that
Defendant failed to engage in a legally required interactive process for
accommodating disabilities, an obligation that the arbitrator overlooked, thus
affecting the decision unfairly. Plaintiff alleges that the arbitrator
wrongfully refused to consider relevant testimony and applied the law
incorrectly.[2]
Specifically, Plaintiff asserts the arbitrator excluded critical
cross-examination and other evidence material to the case.[3]
Plaintiff states that there were misapplications of law and procedural errors,
including misreading legal orders, misinterpreting statutory limitations, and
improperly excluding evidence of discrimination and retaliation.[4]
 
 “[I]t
is the general rule that, with narrow exceptions, an arbitrator’s decision
cannot be reviewed for errors of fact or law.”  (Moncharsh v. Heily & Blase (1992) 3 Cal.4th 1, 11 (Moncharsh).) “When parties contract to
resolve their disputes by private arbitration, their agreement ordinarily
contemplates that the arbitrator will have the power to decide any question of
contract interpretation, historical fact or general law necessary, in the arbitrator’s
understanding of the case, to reach a decision. [Citations.] Inherent in that
power is the possibility the arbitrator may err in deciding some aspect of the
case. Arbitrators do not ordinarily exceed their contractually created powers
simply by reaching an erroneous conclusion on a contested issue of law or fact,
and arbitral awards may not ordinarily be vacated because of such error, for
‘“[t]he arbitrator’s resolution of these issues is what the parties bargained
for in the arbitration agreement.”’” (Gueyffier
v. Ann Summers, Ltd. (2008) 43 Cal.4th 1179, 1184.) 
 
The Court has read and considered the Opposition and supporting
exhibits and declarations. The Court also has carefully reviewed the Arbitrator’s
Award. Clearly, the arbitrator consistently made rulings on questions of fact
and law in favor of Defendant.[5] Just as obviously, Plaintiff strongly disagrees with these
findings. Dissatisfaction with the arbitrator’s decision is not a valid basis
to challenge an award. It appears to the Court that Defendant’s challenge to
the arbitration award is not based on a violation of the arbitrator’s authority
under the Code of Civil Procedure, but rather, a disagreement with the arbitrator’s
application of California law. First, our Supreme Court has expressly stated,
this is not a basis to vacate an arbitration award. (Moncharsh, supra, 3 Cal.4th at 28.) Second, even if the Court could
properly review the award for the sufficiency of the evidence or legal or
factual errors, the Court has found none. In sum, the Court finds that the
arbitrator did not violate any provision of Code of
Civil Procedure section 1286.2. The Court therefore finds that the
arbitrator did not exceed his authority under Code of Civil Procedure section
1286.2(a)(4).  
 
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.      The
Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award is GRANTED.
2.      The
Motion to Vacate the Arbitration Award is DENIED.
Moving party is to prepare a judgment and give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:             April
11, 2024             __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
 
 


