 Case Number:  23STCV07307    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   Friday,
April 12, 2024                                    
 
CASE NAME:           Saul Marroquin v. Jorge Luis Ravelo, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                23STCV07307

 
SPECIAL
MOTION TO STRIKE
 
MOVING PARTY:                           Cross-Defendant County
of Los Angeles (“County”)
 
RESPONDING
PARTY(S):            Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Jorge Luis Ravelo (“Ravelo”)
 
REQUESTED
RELIEF:                  Cross-Defendant
County moves for an order striking Cross-Complainant Ravelo’s Cross-Complaint
and all Ravelo’s claims against it, as well as an award of attorney’s fees and
costs per CCP §425.16.
 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING:                  County’s SLAPP
Motion is DENIED.  County fails to
establish Ravelo’s cross-complaint arises from protected conduct under CCP
§425.16(e).  Ravelo’s request for
sanctions is GRANTED against Cross-Defendant County’s counsel. 
 
 
 
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On November 13, 2019, Plaintiff Saul
Marroquin purchased certain real property (the “Property”) from Gary L. Gormont,
who is now deceased.  Plaintiff alleges
Gormont purchased the Property from Defendant Ravelo for $140,000 pursuant to
Promissory Note secured by a Deed of Trust against the Property.  Plaintiff agreed to take over the payments to
Ravelo on the Promissory Note as part of his purchase of the property from
Marroquin.  
 
            Title to
the Property remains in the name of Gormont. 
Plaintiff alleges Gormont’s brother and heir has filed or will file a
Petition for Probate of Gormont’s estate to confirm that title to the Property
should be in Marroquin’s name.  
 
Beginning in December 2019, Marroquin
began making monthly payments directly to Ravelo on the Promissory Note.  Despite making timely payments to Ravelo,
Ravelo has refused to accept them.  On
November 28, 2202, Ravelo recorded a Notice of Default seeking $131,400.  
 
Plaintiff Saul Marroquin filed a
complaint against Ravelo on April 3, 2023 for temporary restraining order,
preliminary injunction and permanent injunction.  Plaintiff seeks a temporary restraining
order, preliminary injunction and permanent injunction (1) staying and
enjoining any foreclosure or sale of the Property and (2) requiring Ravelo and
all defendants to accept Plaintiff’s monthly payments under the Promissory
Note.  
 
On November 13, 2023, Defendant
Ravelo filed a cross-complaint for foreclosure against Marroquin in response to
Marroquin’s complaint.  Ravelo named as
ROEs 2 to 4, Cross-Defendants County of Los Angeles, County of Contra Costa and
State of California Franchise Tax Board. 

 
On March 4, 2024, County of Los
Angeles filed a SLAPP Motion as to Ravelo’s cross-complaint against it.  On March 29, 2024, Ravelo filed an opposition
to the SLAPP Motion.  On April 5, 2024,
County of Los Angeles filed a reply.  
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
“A cause of action
against a person arising from any act of that person in furtherance of the
person's right of petition or free speech under the United States Constitution
or the California Constitution in connection with a public issue shall be
subject to a special motion to strike, unless the court determines that the
plaintiff has established that there is a probability that the plaintiff will
prevail on the claim.”  (CCP
§425.16(b)(1).  
 
“As used in this
section, ‘act in furtherance of a person's right of petition or free speech
under the United States or California Constitution in connection with a public
issue’ includes: (1) any written or oral statement or writing made before a
legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official
proceeding authorized by law, (2) any written or oral statement or writing made
in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a legislative,
executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding authorized by
law, (3) any written or oral statement or writing made in a place open to the
public or a public forum in connection with an issue of public interest, or (4)
any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of
petition or the constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public
issue or an issue of public interest.” (CCP §425.16(e).)  
 
“Litigation of an anti-SLAPP motion
involves a two-step process. First, the moving defendant bears the burden of
establishing that the challenged allegations or claims arise from protected
activity in which the defendant has engaged. 
Second, for each claim that does arise from protected activity, the
plaintiff must show the claim has “at least ‘minimal merit.  If the plaintiff cannot make this showing,
the court will strike the claim.”  (Bonni v. St. Joseph Health System (2021) 11 Cal.5th 995, 1009
(where moving party seeks to strike an entire cause of action alleging multiple
factual bases, court does not determine whether 1st prong is met
based on “gravamen” test but must determine whether each factual bases supplies
the element of claim or merely provides context)(Bonni).)  Bonni expressly rejected the “gravamen”
test, which had been applied in the past. (Bonni,
supra, 11 Cal.5th at 1009.)
 
On the first step,
“courts are to consider the elements of the challenged claim and what actions
by the defendant supply those elements and consequently form the basis for
liability. The defendant's burden is to identify what acts each challenged
claim rests on and to show how those acts are protected under a statutorily
defined category of protected activity.” 
(Bonni, supra, 11 Cal.5th at 1009.)
 
Once defendant
demonstrates that a cause of action arises from protected conduct, the burden
shifts to plaintiff on the second step to demonstrate that the complaint is
both legally sufficient and supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of
facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by the
plaintiff is credited.  (Navellier v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th
82, 88-89.)  “The second prong of the
statute deals with whether the plaintiff has “demonstrated a probability of
prevailing on the claim.  Under section
425.16, subdivision (b)(2), the superior court, in making these determinations,
considers ‘the pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits stating the
facts upon which the liability or defense is based.’ For purposes of an
anti-SLAPP motion, the court considers the pleadings and evidence submitted by
both sides, but does not weigh credibility or compare the weight of the
evidence. Rather, the court's responsibility is to accept as true the evidence
favorable to the plaintiff.  A plaintiff
need only establish that his or her claim has minimal merit to avoid being
stricken as a SLAPP.  With these
descriptions in mind, we will not strike a cause of action under the anti-SLAPP
statute unless it lacks even minimal merit.” 
(Ralphs Grocery Co. v. Victory
Consultants, Inc. (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 245, 261.)
 
The “probability of
prevailing” is tested by the same standard governing a motion for summary
judgment, nonsuit, or directed verdict. 
Thus, in opposing a SLAPP motion, it is plaintiff's burden to make a
prima facie showing of facts that would support a judgment in plaintiff's
favor.” (Taus v. Loftus (2007) 40
Cal.4th 683, 714 (a “summary-judgment-like procedure”).)  
            
“Precisely because
the statute (1) permits early intervention in lawsuits alleging unmeritorious
causes of action that implicate free speech concerns, and (2) limits
opportunity to conduct discovery, the plaintiff's burden of establishing a
probability of prevailing is not high: We do not weigh credibility, nor do we
evaluate the weight of the evidence. Instead, we accept as true all evidence
favorable to the plaintiff and assess the defendant's evidence only to
determine if it defeats the plaintiff's submission as a matter of law.  Only a cause of action that lacks ‘even
minimal merit' constitutes SLAPP.”  (Overstock.com, Inc. v. Gradient Analytics,
Inc. (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 688, 699.) 
“In order to establish a probability of prevailing on a cause of action
in the context of an anti-SLAPP motion, a plaintiff must state and substantiate
a legally sufficient claim.”  (La Jolla Group II v. Bruce (2012) 211
Cal.App.4th 461, 470.)
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
            County’s Request for Judicial Notice 
 
            County’s
RJN is denied as County seeks to judicially 
 
County’s RJN is granted as to Exhibits D-F for their
existence and recordation per Evidence Code §452(c) and (h).  (Yvanova
v. New Century Mortgage Corp. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 919, 924.)  While the complaint filed on BD038749 for
child support payments against Gormant is not relevant, the judgment it
obtained against Gormant and the recordation of its judgment against the
Property and the grant deed conveying the property from Ravelo to Gormont and
the deed of trust executed by Gorman as trustor and Ravelo as beneficiary are
relevant to the motion and were recorded with the Los Angeles County Recorder’s
Office.  
 
Ravelo’s
Objection to County’s RJN and Declaration of Michael McComas
 
Ravelo’s objection to County’s RJN
of Exhibits A to D is sustained and the RJN is denied as to those Exhibits.
 
Ravelo’s objection to the
Declaration of Michael McComas is sustained. 
McComas’s entire declaration pertains to property taxation.  Property taxes are irrelevant to the SLAPP
Motion.  
 
Cross-Defendant
County fails to establish that Ravelo’s Cross-Complaint arises from protected
conduct
 
            On the first prong, “courts are
to consider the elements of the
challenged claim and what actions by the defendant supply those elements and consequently form the basis for
liability. The defendant's burden is to identify what acts each challenged
claim rests on and to show how those acts are protected under a statutorily
defined category of protected activity.” 
(Bonni, supra, 11 Cal.5th at 1009.)
 
“Indeed, under section 425.16
allegations of protected conduct are only stricken to the extent they support a
claim for relief.  If allegations of
protected conduct do not support and merely provide context for the plaintiff's
claim for relief, the allegations are left unaltered.”  (Miszkewycz
v. County of Placer (2024) 99 Cal.App.5th 67, 75.)  
 
            County
argues Ravelo’s claims against it arise from (1) a recorded paternity and child
support judgment that the County obtained against Mr. Gormont in 1991 and (2)
taxes imposed on the Property.  County
argues recordation of a judgment qualifies as protected conduct under CCP
§425.16(e)(1) as litigation activity and imposition of taxes qualifies as
protected conduct under CCP §425.16(e)(2) as communications (notices, letters,
invoices regarding taxes) in connection with an administrative proceeding.  
 
County fails to recognize that there is a difference between allegations that supply the elements of
a claim and allegations of incidental background. (Bonni v. St. Joseph Health System (2021) 11 Cal.5th 995, 1012.)
“Allegations of protected activity that merely provide context, without
supporting a claim for recovery, cannot be stricken under the anti-SLAPP
statute.” (Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1
Cal.5th 376, 394; Pech v. Doniger
(2022) 75 Cal.App.5th 443, 459.) In addition, “a
claim may be struck only if the speech or petitioning activity itself is the wrong complained of, and not just evidence of
liability or a step leading to some different act for which liability is
asserted.” (Park,
supra, 2 Cal.5th at p. 1060.) County
fails to establish that any element of Ravelo’s foreclosure claim against it is
supplied by protected conduct identified by County under CCP §425.16(e).  The complaint does not contain allegations of
the identified protected conduct.  Moreover,
County fails to identify the elements of a claim for judicial foreclosure.  Most importantly, County fails to identify
the essential element of Ravelo’s judicial foreclosure claim that is supplied
by its recordation of the paternity and child support judgment against Gormant
and its imposition of taxes on the Property. Finally, and more troubling,
County fails to cite to Bonni or
apply the Bonni test, suggesting that they were unaware of this
well-established body of law. 
 
“The beneficiary or trustee named
in a deed of trust or mortgagee named in a mortgage with power of sale upon
real property or any interest therein to secure a debt or other obligation, or
if there be a successor or successors in interest of such beneficiary, trustee
or mortgagee, then such successor or successors in interest, shall have the
right to bring suit to foreclose the same in the manner and subject to the
provisions, rights and remedies relating to the foreclosure of a mortgage upon
such property.”  (CCP §725a.)  
 
Thus, a cause of action for
judicial foreclosure of a mortgage or deed of trust has the following elements:
(1) the obligation, e.g. the execution of a promissory note; (2) the security,
e.g. the execution of the mortgage or deed of trust to secure the obligation;
(3) the plaintiff's ownership of the note and mortgage if he is a transferee
and not the original payee or mortgagee; (4) the default of the defendant
mortgagor; and (5) the interests of defendants other than the mortgagor.  (CCP §725a; Arabia v. BAC Home Loans Servicing, L.P. (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th
462, 470 (Arabia) ; 5 Witkin, Cal. Procedure (6th ed. 2008) Pleading,
§674.)[1]
 
As Ravelo explains in his
opposition, County is only named in the cross-complaint, because it is a
recorded junior lienholder on the Property. 
Ravelo’s complaint does not attack the validity of County’s status as a lienholder.  “The plaintiff has neither direct knowledge
of, nor concern with, the precise
nature of the interests of persons claiming under the mortgagor, and only seeks to establish his own priority.
Hence, a general allegation is allowed, e.g., that each of the defendants has
or claims to have some interest or claim upon said premises, which interest or
claim is subsequent to and subject to the lien of the plaintiff's mortgage.”  (5 Witkin, Cal. Proc. (6th ed. 2021), Plead §676.)  County’s recordation of its judgment against
Gormant and its imposition of taxes on the Property are therefore not the basis of the foreclosure claim
against it, nor do these acts supply
an essential element of Ravelo’s judicial foreclosure claim.[2]
 
County utterly fails to satisfy its
burden on the first prong of the anti-SLAPP analysis.  As such, County’s SLAPP Motion is
denied.  
 
Burden
does not shift to Plaintiff on second step of anti-SLAPP
 
 
Once defendant demonstrates that a
cause of action arises from protected conduct, the burden shifts to plaintiff
on the second step to demonstrate that the complaint is both legally sufficient
and supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of facts to sustain a
favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by the plaintiff is credited.  (Navellier
v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 88-89.) 
While the Court need not reach the second prong o pertaining to Ravelo’s
probability of prevailing since County failed to satisfy its burden on the
first step, the Court will nonetheless analyze the second step. 
 
“The second prong of the statute
deals with whether the plaintiff has “demonstrated a probability of prevailing
on the claim.  Under section 425.16,
subdivision (b)(2), the superior court, in making these determinations,
considers ‘the pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits stating the
facts upon which the liability or defense is based.’ For purposes of an
anti-SLAPP motion, the court considers the pleadings and evidence submitted by
both sides, but does not weigh credibility or compare the weight of the
evidence. Rather, the court's responsibility is to accept as true the evidence
favorable to the plaintiff.  A plaintiff
need only establish that his or her claim has minimal merit to avoid being
stricken as a SLAPP.  With these
descriptions in mind, we will not strike a cause of action under the anti-SLAPP
statute unless it lacks even minimal merit.” 
(Ralphs Grocery Co. v. Victory
Consultants, Inc. (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 245, 261.)
 
            The
“probability of prevailing” is tested by the same standard governing a motion
for summary judgment, nonsuit, or directed verdict.  Thus, in opposing a SLAPP motion, it is
plaintiff's burden to make a prima facie showing of facts that would support a
judgment in plaintiff's favor.” (Taus v.
Loftus (2007) 40 Cal.4th 683, 714 (a “summary-judgment-like procedure”).)  
 
            “Precisely
because the statute (1) permits early intervention in lawsuits alleging
unmeritorious causes of action that implicate free speech concerns, and (2)
limits opportunity to conduct discovery, the plaintiff's burden of establishing
a probability of prevailing is not high: We do not weigh credibility, nor do we
evaluate the weight of the evidence. Instead, we accept as true all evidence
favorable to the plaintiff and assess the defendant's evidence only to
determine if it defeats the plaintiff's submission as a matter of law.  Only a cause of action that lacks ‘even
minimal merit' constitutes SLAPP.”  (Overstock.com, Inc. v. Gradient Analytics,
Inc. (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 688, 699.) 
“In order to establish a probability of prevailing on a cause of action
in the context of an anti-SLAPP motion, a plaintiff must state and substantiate
a legally sufficient claim.”  (La Jolla Group II v. Bruce (2012) 211
Cal.App.4th 461, 470.)
 
Ravelo presents evidence in support
of each essential element of its foreclosure claim.  Ravelo submits evidence that (1) he is the
holder of promissory note issued by Gorman secured by a Deed of Trust of which
he is the named beneficiary (Ravelo Dec., ¶¶5-8; Exhibits ISO Plaintiff’s
Opposition, Exs. 2 and 3); and (2) that Gorman defaulted on the Note payments,
triggering his right to foreclose under the Deed of Trust (Ravelo Dec., ¶8).  Thus, Ravelo’s evidence establishes the
probability that he will prevail on his foreclosure claim and satisfies the
very low threshold applied to the second step of  the anti-SLAPP analysis.  
 
Plaintiff
is entitled to fees due to the frivolous nature of County’s SLAPP
 
“If the court finds that a special
motion to strike is frivolous or is solely intended to cause unnecessary delay,
the court shall award costs and reasonable attorney's fees to a plaintiff
prevailing on the motion, pursuant to Section 128.5.”  (CCP §425.16(c).)  However, the procedural requirements of CCP
§128.5(f), which includes a 21-day safe harbor and a separate noticed motion,
do not apply to a request for sanctions under CCP §425.16.  (Changsha
Metro Group Co., Ltd. v. Peng Xufeng (2020) 57 Cal.App.5th 1, 20.)
 
“‘Frivolous’ means totally and
completely without merit or for the sole purpose of harassing an opposing
party.”  (CCP §128.5(b)(1).)  The determination that an anti-SLAPP motion
is “totally and completely without merit” requires a finding that “any
reasonable attorney would agree such motion is totally devoid of merit.”  (Moore
v. Shaw (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 182, 199; City of Rocklin v. Legacy Family Adventures-Rocklin, LLC (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 713, 734 (CCP § 128.5 sanctions proper because no reasonable attorney
would consider theme park a work of art entitled to exception to anti-SLAPP
statute's commercial speech exemption; Alfaro
v. Waterhouse Mgmt. Corp. (2022) 82 CA5th 26, 36-37, 297 CR3d 797, 805-806
(any reasonable attorney should know that dispute that simply mentions
incidental protected activity not subject to anti-SLAPP statute).) 
 
County’s SLAPP motion was frivolous
as defined under CCP §128.5(b)(2).  County
failed to apply the Bonni test or
cite to Bonni.  The protected conduct identified by County
could not reasonably be interpreted as supplying any element of a judicial
foreclosure claim.  Any reasonable
attorney would agree that the County’s anti-SLAPP motion was without merit,
particularly given that (1) an essential element of a judicial foreclosure
claim is the naming of any other potential interest holders in the land as defendants
and (2) the plaintiff in a judicial foreclosure action “has neither direct
knowledge of, nor concern with, the
precise nature of the interests of persons claiming under the mortgagor, and only seeks to establish his own priority.”  (5 Witkin, Cal. Proc. (6th ed. 2021), Plead §676.)
 
Ravelo requests $6,600 in fees plus
$15.15 in costs based on 14.5 hours motion prep @ $400/hr.  (Weeks Dec., ¶9; Fountain Dec., ¶3.)  Ravelo’s request is reasonable.  
 
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: County’s
SLAPP Motion is DENIED.  Ravelo’s request
for attorney’s fees and costs in the amount of $6,615.15 is GRANTED as to Cross-Defense
Counsel for County.  
 
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              APRIL 12, 2024                        __________________________________                                                                                                              Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


