 Case Number:  23SMCV02556    Hearing Date:   June 24, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


June
  24, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV02556




MOTION


Motion
  to Deem Requests for Admission Admitted




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Sonya Daniels




OPPOSING PARTY


None



 
MOTION
 
            Plaintiff Sonya Daniels
(“Plaintiff”) moves to deem admitted the matters specified in Requests for
Admission, set one (“RFA”) propounded to Defendants Body By Batal Cosmetic
Surgery Center and Obaida Batal MD (“Defendants”) and for sanctions.   The
Motion is unopposed. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
           
Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 2033.280, subdivision (a), “[i]f a party to whom requests
or admission are directed fails to serve a timely response . . .  [t]he party to whom the requests for
admission are directed waives any objection to the requests, including one
based on privilege or on the protection for work product[.]”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (a).)  Where a party fails to respond to
requests for admissions, the propounding party may move for an order that the
genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction.¿ (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)
 
1.    
Motion to Deem Admitted
 
As a threshold matter, Plaintiff has not provided any proof of service
indicating that she properly served Defendants with the Motion to Deem
Admitted.  Code of Civil Procedure
section 1005 requires that all moving and supporting papers shall be filed and
served at least 16 court days prior to the hearing.  Finding no evidence of proper service of the Motion
on Defendants, the Court cannot grant Plaintiff’s request.
 
Substantively, Plaintiff contends she served Defendants with the RFA electronically
on April 2, 2024, and via mail on April 18, 2024 to 10884 Santa Monica Blvd, Suite
201 (the address listed on Defendant’s most recently-filed February 20, 2024 “Separate
Statement of Declaration”) and to 19228 Ventura Blvd. Suite A, and that Defendants
have not responded as of June 1, 2024, when Plaintiff signed her declaration.  (Daniels Decl. ¶¶ 2, 4.)  Therefore, Plaintiff seeks to deem admitted
the matters specified in the RFA.
 
Assuming service by mail on April 18, 2024, Defendants’ responses were
due by May 23 (30 days + 5 days for service by mail.)  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1013.)  Yet Defendants had not responded as of June
1.  (Daniels Decl. ¶ 4.)  These facts would generally entitle Plaintiff
to an order deeming the matters admitted.
 
However, Plaintiff’s declaration is not properly signed under penalty
of perjury.  Instead, it indicates, “I
declare under penaly of perjun under the aws of the State of Calfria that the
toregoing is true and Correct.”  [sic.]  As such, the declaration (and exhibits
attached thereto) have no evidentiary value and cannot support Plaintiff’s
request.  Moreover, the Court finds that
the proof of service attached as Exhibit C to the motion is incomplete (see Sections
2 and 5).  As such, the Court determines
that the proof of service is defective.  
 
Because the declaration supporting Plaintiff’s motion is not properly
signed under penalty of perjury, and therefore holds no evidentiary value,
Plaintiff has failed to carry her burden to demonstrate that the requests
should be deemed admitted.
 
2.    
Monetary Sanctions
Having
found Plaintiff failed to provide a proof of service indicating Defendants were
properly served with the Motion and that Plaintiff failed to carry her
evidentiary burden to demonstrate the requests should be deemed admitted, the
Court similarly denies Plaintiff’s request for sanctions.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the foregoing reasons, the
Court denies Plaintiff’s motion to deem admitted the matters specified in the
RFA and denies Plaintiff’s request for sanctions.
 
            Plaintiff
is ordered to provide notice of the Court’s order and file the notice with a proof
of service forthwith.
 
 
 
DATED:  June 24, 2024                                             ___________________________
                                                                              Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                              Judge of the Superior Court
 
 