 Case Number:  21STCV41593    Hearing Date:   June 24, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


June 24, 2024




CASE NUMBER


21STCV41593




MOTION


Continue Trial 




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Aziz Rasooli, D.P.M.




OPPOSING PARTY


none



 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Rosalina Ruiz (“Plaintiff”) filed this medical malpractice
suit on November 12, 2021.  
 
On January 29, 2024, Defendant Aziz Rasooli, D.P.M. (“Defendant”) moved
ex parte to continue the trial date to permit a separate lawsuit (Ruiz
v. City of Culver City, Case No. 21STCV06958  which pertains to Plaintiff’s underlying trip
and fall incident which precipitated her seeking medical treatment from
Defendant) to be tried before this action because as asserted  any recovery Plaintiff receives in the other
action may be an offset in this action.  The
Court granted the ex parte and continued the trial in this action to September
16, 2024.  
 
Defendant Aziz Rasooli (“Defendant”) moves to continue the trial
again, commensurate with a trial continuance in the underlying trip and fall action.  Defendant’s motion is unopposed.  Further, attached to Defendant's motion is a
Stipulation in which Plaintiff agrees to the trial continuance and extension of
the discovery and pre-trial motion cut-off dates.  (See Motion, Exhibit A.)  
 
ANALYSIS
 
            “Continuances are granted only on an
affirmative showing of good cause requiring a continuance.”  (In re
Marriage of Falcone & Fyke (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 814, 823.)  A
trial court has broad discretion in considering a request for a trial
continuance.  (Pham v. Nguyen (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 11,
13-18.)  California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 sets forth factors for the
Court to consider in ruling on a motion to continue trial.  Whether the parties have stipulated to the
postponement is a relevant factor for consideration.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 595.2, but see Lorraine v. McComb (1934) 220 Cal. 753,
756-757 [finding a stipulation to be merely “directory”].)   
 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c), provides:
 
Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a
continuance must be considered on its own merits.  The court may grant a continuance only on an
affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  Circumstances that may indicate good cause
include:
 
(1)  The unavailability of an
essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;
 
(2)  The unavailability of a
party because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
 
(3)  The unavailability of trial
counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
 
(4)  The substitution of trial
counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution
is required in the interests of justice;
 
(5)  The addition of a new party
if:
 
(A)  The new party has not had a
reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or
 
(B)  The other parties have not
had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in
regard to the new party's involvement in the case;
 
(6)  A party's excused inability
to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite
diligent efforts; or
 
(7)  A significant,
unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of which the case is
not ready for trial.
 
Factors the Court considers in ruling on a motion for continuance
include:
 
(1)  The proximity of the trial
date;
 
(2)  Whether there was any
previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;
 
(3)  The length of the
continuance requested;
 
(4)  The availability of
alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or
application for a continuance;
 
(5)  The prejudice that parties
or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
 
(6)  If the case is entitled to
a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay;
 
(7)  The court's calendar and
the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials;
 
(8)  Whether trial counsel is
engaged in another trial;
 
(9)  Whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance;
 
(10)  Whether the interests of
justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by
imposing conditions on the continuance; and
 
(11)  Any other fact or
circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.
 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)
 
            Trial
in the underlying trip and fall case was continued from May 6, 2024 to December
2024.[1]  (Lender Decl. ¶ 2.)  Therefore, Defendant has demonstrated good
cause to continue the trial in this action as well.  However, the Court has an impacted trial
calendar in 2025 and is unable to accommodate a trial continuance of 60 days
after the trial in the underlying slip and fall action.  
 
            Alternatively,
the Court will vacate the Trial and Final Status Conference, and set a Trial
Readiness Conference on January 16, 2025 at 8:30 A.M. in Department 207.  The parties shall file a Joint Trial
Readiness Conference Report no later than 5 court-days before the conference, providing
detailed information about the parties’ readiness for trial and the status
of discovery.    
 
            Until
further order of the Court, all discovery and pre-trial motion cut-off
dates shall be based upon the Trial Readiness Conference date of January 16,
2025.  Per the Discovery Act, the parties
shall meet and confer forthwith to schedule and complete all non-expert
discovery and to prepare for the completion of expert discovery to obviate the
need for a further continuance of the trial. 

 
            In addition, the Court, on its own
motion, discharges the Order to Show Cause hearing set on August 30, 2024 as
moot.  Defendant James Emory Burrows was
dismissed on May  31, 2024.  
 
            Defendant shall provide notice of
the Court’s orders and file the notice with a proof of service forthwith. 
 
 
 
 
DATED:  June 24, 2024                                                         ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


