  Case Number:  19SMCV01169    Hearing Date:   June 24, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


June 24, 2024




CASE NUMBER


19SMCV01169




MOTION


Motion for Leave to Amend Complaint




MOVING PARTIES


Plaintiffs Anthony Aldave and Teresa Aldave




OPPOSING PARTY


None



 
MOTION
 
            Plaintiffs Anthony Aldave and Teresa
Aldave (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) move for leave to amend the complaint to
name additional defendants Plaintiffs recently discovered were involved with
the project and to supplement the complaint to add allegations of further
damage caused by February 2024 mudslides and related to Defendant Stella Nova
LLC’s encumbrances on the 1400 Linda Flora Road property.  
 
            Plaintiffs’ motion is
unopposed.    
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Amendments
to Pleadings: General Provisions
 
            Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (a)(1), “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and
on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or
proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a
mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may
likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by this code.”
 
            To wit, without notice to the other
party the Court has wide discretion to allow either party (i) to add or strike
the name of a party or (ii) to correct a mistake in the name of a party or a
mistake in any other respect “in furtherance of justice” and “on any terms as
may be proper.” (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1); see also Marriage
of Liss (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1429.) Alternatively, after notice to
the other party, the Court has wide discretion to allow either party to amend
pleadings “upon any terms as may be just.” (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1). Similarly, Code of Civil Procedure section 576 states “Any judge,
at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any
pleading or pretrial conference order.”
 
            Judicial policy favors resolution of
all disputed matters between the parties and, therefore, leave to amend is
liberally granted. (Berman vs. Bromberg (1986) 56 Cal.App.4th 936, 945; Hirsa
v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 488-489 [this has been an
established policy in California since 1901] (citing Frost v. Whitter
(1901) 132 Cal. 421, 424; Thomas v. Bruza (1957) 151 Cal.App.2d 150,
155).) The Court of Appeal in Morgan v. Superior Court held “If the
motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and
where the refusal also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert
a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error
but an abuse of discretion.” (Morgan v. Superior Court (1959) 172
Cal.App.2d 527, 530, citations omitted.) Moreover, “it is an abuse of
discretion for the court to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was
not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v.
Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 [opposing party did not
establish harm by the delay in moving to amend the complaint].)
 
            “The court may grant leave to amend
the pleadings at any stage of the action.” (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023) ¶ 6:636 (hereafter
Weil & Brown).) Denial of a motion to amend is rarely justified if the
motion is timely made and granting the motion will not prejudice the opposing
party. (Id. at ¶ 6:639, citations omitted.) However, if the party
seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the
opposing party, the judge has discretion to deny leave to amend. (Id. at
¶ 6:655, citations omitted. Absent prejudice, any claimed delay alone is not
grounds for denial. “If the delay in seeking the amendment has not misled or
prejudiced the other side, the liberal policy of allowing amendments prevails.
Indeed, it is an abuse of discretion to deny leave in such a case even if
sought as late as the time of trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:653 (citing Higgins
v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565).) “Prejudice exists where
the amendment would result in a delay of trial, along with loss of critical
evidence, added costs of preparation, increased burden of discovery, etc. . . .
But the fact that the amendment involves a change in legal theory which would
make admissible evidence damaging to the opposing party is not the kind of
prejudice the court will consider.” (Weil & Brown, supra, at
¶ 6:656, citations omitted.)
 
            “Even if some prejudice is shown,
the judge may still permit the amendment but impose conditions, as the Court is
authorized to grant leave ‘on such terms as may be proper.’” (Weil &
Brown, supra, at ¶ 6:663, citation omitted.) For example, the court
may cause the party seeking the amendment to pay the costs and fees incurred in
preparing for trial. (Id. at ¶ 6:664 (citing Fuller v. Vista Del
Arroyo Hotel, 42 Cal.App.2d 400, 404).)
 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324: Procedural Requirements
 
            Pursuant to California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading before trial must:
 
“(1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or
amended pleadings, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from
previous pleadings or amendments;
(2) state what allegations in the previous
pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and
line number, the deleted allegations are located; and
(3) State what allegations are proposed to be
added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line
number, the additional allegations are located.”
 
            In addition, under Rule 3.1324(b), a
motion to amend a pleading before trial must be accompanied by a separate
declaration that specifies the following:
 
“(1) the effect of the amendment;
(2) why the amendment is necessary and proper;
(3) when the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered; and
(4) the reasons why the request for amendment was
not made earlier.”
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiffs seek to amend the First
Amended Complaint to add Defendants that Plaintiffs recently discovered in the
course of investigating the case were involved with the project, but whose
involvement was not a matter of public record, or in some instances, evidenced
in writing, and to supplement the allegations in the amended complaint to
include further damage caused by additional mudslides in February 2024, and
related to Defendant Stella Nova LLC’s encumbrances on the 1400 Linda Flora
Road property.
 
            Attached to the motion is a copy of
the proposed amended/supplemented pleadings, and the body of the motion states
what allegations are proposed to be added and deleted, by page, paragraph, and
line number.
 
            In support of the motion, Plaintiffs
have provided the Declaration of Jeffrey A. Haile, in compliance with Rule
3.1324(b).  With regard to when the facts
giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered, the declaration
provides:
 
13. The facts giving rise in substantial part to
the amendments were discovered over the course of approximately three months
following the fourth landslide, during which time Mr. Norris and this law firm
were undertaking their investigation into (1) the origin of the fourth slide;
(2) the cause (s) of the fourth slide; (3) the scope and extent of the damages
to the property and residence caused by the fourth slide; (4) the parties
responsible for the fourth slide and (5) remediation options for the substantial
damages caused by this fourth slide. The investigation included site
inspections, review of project documents and public records, as well as
consultations with experts. This investigation led to further analysis of the
project documents, both public and private, regarding the participants in the
project, wherein the above referenced deceitful practices of the owners and
other participants in the project were uncovered. This additional evidence
gives rise to the additional allegations of alter ego and vicarious liability.
 
(Haile
Decl. ¶ 13.)  With regard to why the
amendment was not made sooner, the declaration explains:
 
14. This Motion was not made earlier because a
substantial and thorough investigation had 17 to be completed by this office
and Mr. Norris before the facts and circumstances surrounding the 18 fourth
slide and other new allegations could be properly determined and added to the
First 19 Amended Complaint.
 
(Haile
Decl. ¶ 14.)   As such, Plaintiffs have
demonstrated there was no unreasonable delay in requesting to amend/supplement
the First Amended Complaint.
 
            At the May 13, 2024 ex parte hearing
on Plaintiffs’ request to shorten time on the instant motion, the Court
continued the trial to August 11, 2025, with all discovery and pre-trial motion
cut off dates extended in kind.  As such,
the Court finds that the newly-added Defendants will not be prejudiced by the
amended/supplement complaint.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            For the reasons stated, the Court
grants Plaintiffs’ unopposed motion for leave to amend and supplement the First
Amended Complaint.  Plaintiffs shall file
and serve the proposed amended/supplemental complaint on or before July 22,
2024, and shall file the proofs of service.   

 
            The Court orders Plaintiffs to
provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the notice with a proof of
service forthwith.
 
DATED: 
June 24, 2024                                 ___________________________
                                                                  Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                  Judge
of the Superior Court
 