 Case Number:  20STCV49011    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT 
Hearing Date: 8/8/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 20STCV49011 BEHZAD SHIRALIAN et
al. vs KASIM MOOSAI et
al.
Moving Party: Defendant Getaround Inc. 
Responding Party: Plaintiffs
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT IS DENIED
 
Background
Plaintiffs Behzad
Shiralian and Leila Heshmatpour have asserted two claims against Defendant
Getaround, Inc. (“Getaround”) for motor vehicle negligence and general
negligence. The claims arise from an alleged hit-and-run automobile accident
involving a vehicle rented from the Getaround vehicle sharing platform to
Defendant Cristian Mauricio Torresarias (“Torresarias”). Defendant argues that
Plaintiffs' claim for negligent entrustment in which Plaintiffs’ motor vehicle
negligence and general negligence causes of action are based upon fails on
three grounds. First, Torresarias was not driving the vehicle at the time of
the accident, negating proximate cause. Second, even if Torresarias had been
driving, Getaround could not be held liable for negligent entrustment because
its duty of care was limited to confirming that Torresarias had a valid
driver’s license, which it has done. Third, the Graves Amendment bars Getaround
from vicarious liability. 
Defendant is seeking
summary judgment and is not seeking summary adjudication as to certain defenses
or issues in the alternative.
Legal Standard
In reviewing a motion for summary judgment or
adjudication, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues
framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the
opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated
the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”¿(Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th
289, 294.)
 
“[T]he initial burden is always on the moving
party to make a prima facia showing that there are no triable issues of
material fact.”¿(Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)¿A
defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or
her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has
shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿If the moving party fails to carry its burden, the inquiry is over,
and the motion must be denied. (See Id.; see also Consumer Cause,
Inc. v. SmileCare (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454, 468.)¿Even if the moving party does carry its burden, the non-moving
party will still defeat the motion by presenting evidence of a triable issue of
material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826,
849-50.)
 
To meet this burden of showing a cause of
action cannot be established, a defendant must show not only “that the
plaintiff does not possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff
cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.”¿(Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿It is insufficient for the defendant to merely point out the
absence of evidence.¿(Gaggero
v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891.)¿The defendant “must also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot
reasonably obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”¿(Ibid.)¿The
supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions,
depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice
may be taken.¿(Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at
p. 855.)
 
“Once the defendant … has met that burden, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff … to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The plaintiff may not merely rely on
allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of
material fact exists, but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action.”¿(Ibid.)¿“If the
plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.”¿(Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
 
The court must “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve all
doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party,” including “all
inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.” (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037;
Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp. 844-45.) “On a summary judgment
motion, the court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing
party a factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence in this manner, the
court must bear in mind that its primary function is to identify issues rather
than to determine issues. [Citation.] Only when the inferences are indisputable may the court decide the
issues as a matter of law.  If the evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be
resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832,
839.) Further, “the trial court may not weigh the
evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose version is more
likely true. [Citation.] Nor may the trial court grant summary judgment
based on the court’s evaluation of credibility. [Citation.]” (Id. at p.
840; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)
 
Evidentiary Objections 
 
The
parties did not make any objections to evidence that were material to the
Court’s ruling, as per CCP § 437c(q). 
 
Gender of the Driver
Defendant has met its
initial burden by presenting evidence from Police Officer Bakewell's deposition
where the officer testified that the driver of the vehicle that crashed into
Plaintiffs’ car was identified as female in the police report. (Def’s Ex. A, Officer
Bakewell Depo, pp. 37:25-38:6; 39:9-17; 25:1-19.) 
However, this is not
the whole story. Plaintiffs' evidence provides additional context. Plaintiffs
claim that it was actually Cristian Mauricio Torresarias, a male, who was
driving and struck Plaintiffs’ car. Plaintiffs testified that Torresarias hit
Plaintiffs’ car but did not immediately stop; Plaintiffs had to pursue
Torresarias to get him to halt the vehicle. Once Torresarias stopped, he
pretended to retrieve insurance information from the glove compartment and
switched seats/position with the female passenger. Instead of exchanging
information, Torresarias instructed his girlfriend/female passenger to get
behind the wheel. They then fled the scene with the female driving the car. (Plf’s
Ex. A, Heshmatpour Depo, pp. 40:19-41:15, 41:24-42:5, 46:1-6, 74:19-75:4; Plf’s
Ex. B, Shiralian Depo, pp. 128:16 - 130:12, 130:13-133:21, 135:21-137:19,
141:5-15, 150:1-152:9.) Plaintiff does not dispute that the vehicle was once
driven by a female, as indicated in the police report and Officer Bakewell’s
deposition. However, Plaintiff has raised a triable issue of fact, asserting
that at the time of the collision, it was Torresarias, a male, who was driving
the vehicle.
Graves Amendment

Graves Amendment,
codified at 49 USC §30106(a) states:
(a) In general. An
owner of a motor vehicle that rents or leases the vehicle to a person (or an
affiliate of the owner) shall not be liable under the law of any State or
political subdivision thereof, by reason of being the owner of the vehicle (or
an affiliate of the owner), for harm to persons or property that results or
arises out of the use, operation, or possession of the vehicle during the
period of the rental or lease, if--
(1) the owner (or an
affiliate of the owner) is engaged in the trade or business of renting or
leasing motor vehicles; and
(2) there is no negligence
or criminal wrongdoing on the part of the owner (or an affiliate of the owner).
The Graves Amendment
does not provide Defendant with relief when there is negligence on the part of
the owner. Negligent entrustment is one such exception to the Graves Amendment.
Negligent entrustment of a vehicle is imposed on a vehicle owner or permitter
due to his own independent negligence, not the negligence of the driver.
Liability for the negligence of the incompetent driver to whom an automobile is
entrusted does not arise out of the relationship of the parties, but from the
act of entrustment of the motor vehicle, with permission to operate it, to one
whose incompetency, inexperience, or recklessness is known or should have been
known by the owner. (McKenna v. Beesley (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th 552, 565.)
Whether or not the Graves Amendment provides a complete defense to Plaintiff’s
claims in this summary judgment depends on whether or not Defendant can
successfully negate Plaintiff’s negligent entrustment claim.
Negligent Entrustment
To hold a defendant
liable for negligent entrustment, the plaintiff must prove that (1) the driver
was negligent in operating the vehicle; (2) that the defendant was an owner of
the vehicle operated by the driver; (3) that the defendant knew, or should have
known, that the driver was incompetent or unfit to drive the vehicle; (4) that
the defendant permitted the driver to use the vehicle; and (5) that the
driver’s incompetence or unfitness to drive was a substantial factor in causing
harm to the plaintiff.  (Jeld-Wen,
Inc. v. Superior Court (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 853, 863-64.)  
In the moving papers, Defendant
claims that California case law is clear that a rental company’s duty is
expressly limited to determining whether the renter had a valid driver’s
license at the time of rental (Motion at pg. 7), a duty Getaround claims that
it has successfully carried out. This negates the element of constructive
notice as the owner made a reasonable effort to ascertain whether the driver
was unfit to drive. In support this claim, Defendant relies on California
Vehicle Code - VEH § 14604 and 14608. 
VEH § 14604 states that
(a) No owner of a motor vehicle may
knowingly allow another person to drive the vehicle upon a highway unless the
owner determines that the person possesses a valid driver's license that
authorizes the person to operate the vehicle. For the purposes of this section,
an owner is required only to make a reasonable effort or inquiry to determine
whether the prospective driver possesses a valid driver's license before
allowing him or her to operate the owner's vehicle. An owner is not required to
inquire of the department whether the prospective driver possesses a valid
driver's license.
(b) A rental company is deemed to
be in compliance with subdivision (a) if the company rents the vehicle in
accordance with Sections 14608 and 14609.
VEH § 14608 states that
(a) A person shall not rent a motor
vehicle to another person unless both of the following
requirements have been met:
(1) The person to whom the vehicle is rented is
licensed under this code or is a nonresident who is licensed under the laws of
the state or country of his or her residence.
(2) The person renting to another person has
inspected the driver's license of the person to whom the vehicle is to be
rented and compared either the signature thereon
with that of the person to whom the vehicle is to be rented
or the photograph thereon with the person to whom the vehicle is to be rented.
Defendant states in the
moving papers that the Legislature has delineated, in Vehicle Code section
14608, the sole duty of a rental car company upon renting a vehicle is to check
the potential renter’s license. (Motion at pg. 7.) However, part of checking
the license includes the requirement that the person renting the vehicle
inspects the driver's license of the person to whom the vehicle is to be rented
and compares either the signature or the photograph on the license with that
person. Defendant has not shown this in the evidence presented.
The only evidence
Defendant presents regarding the license check is a declaration from Dennis
Lewis, Director of Insurance and Claims at Getaround. He states that on or
about November 2, 2019, Torresarias began the sign-up process with Getaround as
a potential renter. As part of this process, Torres-Arias was required to pass
a driving record check, which he completed successfully on November 2, 2019,
confirming that he had a valid driver’s license. A copy of the DMV report was
attached as Exhibit A. (Lewis Decl. 6.) On November 18, 2019, Torresarias
booked a trip on the Getaround platform and successfully rented the subject
2008 Toyota Yaris. The rental concluded on November 21, 2019. A copy of the
Vehicle Trip Page was attached as Exhibit B.
Neither Lewis's
declaration, Plaintiff’s DMV report, nor the vehicle trip page demonstrate any
cross-checking of Plaintiff's signature with those on his license or the
photograph on the license with the individual. All Lewis states about the
application process is that Plaintiff was required to pass a driving record
check, but does not specify what passing entails, nor whether that includes
cross-checking the signature and the photos. The DMV report is similarly
lacking and only confirms the validity of Plaintiff’s license.                          Defendant's
signup process satisfies only one of the requirements of Vehicle Code section
14608, ensuring the person to whom the vehicle is rented is licensed. However,
it remains unclear from the declaration and the DMV report whether Defendant
has fulfilled the second requirement of Vehicle Code 14608 by verifying
Plaintiff’s signature and photograph. Thus, Defendant has not met its initial
burden in negating the constructive notice element of Plaintiff’s negligent
entrustment claim.
In the reply, Defendant
argues that there is no obligation to physically hold the license, as it can be
done electronically. However, the issue with Defendant's evidence is that
Vehicle Code section 14608 requires comparing the picture or signature on the
license with the driver or his/her signature, but Defendant has not
demonstrated in the evidence provided that this has been done either physically
or electronically.
Seeing that it might
have failed to meet the requirement of Vehicle Code Section 14608, Defendant
seems to backtrack and argue against the requirement of 14608, which it
emphasized in the moving papers. Defendant contends that even if Defendant’s
evidence failed to meet the requirements of 14608, Plaintiff nonetheless cannot
show that Defendant must have known or should have known of the operator’s
unfitness to drive, and that such unfitness must have been a substantial cause
of Plaintiff's injury.
But the requirements
for constructive notice of an operator's unfitness to drive is defined by
statute. “In determining the scope of common law tort duties pertaining to
those who allow unlicensed or unfit drivers to drive a vehicle, California
courts have consistently referenced statutory law.” (McKenna v. Beesley
(2021) 67 Cal.App.5th 552, 567.) Statutory law is vital in defining the scope
of common law liability for negligent entrustment. (McKenna v. Beesley (2021)
67 Cal.App.5th 552, 570.) In Dodge Center, the court held that Defendant
was not liable for negligent entrustment because the statute only imposes a
duty to inquire into renters' license status, not purchasers. (Dodge Center
v. Superior Court (1988), 199 Cal.App.3d 332.) Similarly, the court
concluded that an owner who violates section 14604 may be liable for negligent
entrustment (McKenna v. Beesley (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th 552, 574) and a rental
car agency's violation of section 14608 could subject the agency to common law
liability for negligent entrustment. (Id at 571.)
The statute requires
that owners ensure drivers possess a valid driver's license authorized for
vehicle operation and mandates that they make reasonable efforts to verify
this. For rental agencies, reasonable efforts requires both 1) The person to
whom the vehicle is rented is licensed and 2) verifying that the driver's
license signature or photo matches the person intending to operate the vehicle.
Defendant’s evidence shows that it has fulfilled only the first requirement.
The evidence does not demonstrate that the driver's license signature or photo was
verified either physically or electronically pursuant to the requirement of Veh
14605. Consequently, Defendant failed to meet the initial burden of negating
the element of constructive notice for Plaintiff's negligent entrustment claim.
Conclusion
Summary judgment is
denied because Defendant failed to meet its initial burden in negating
Plaintiff's negligent entrustment claim, to which Defendant claims Plaintiff's
motor vehicle negligence and general negligence causes of action is based upon.
Although there could be grounds for summary adjudication as to certain issues
or defenses, the notice of motion seeks only summary judgment. The Court may
not summarily adjudicate claims or defenses for which no triable issue was
raised unless such adjudication was explicitly requested in the notice of
motion. (Homestead Sav. v. Sup.Ct. (Dividend Develop. Corp.) (1986) 179
Cal.App.3d 494, 498.)
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 
 