  Case Number:  19STCV18324    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO DISMISS AND MOTION TO QUASH 
Hearing Date: 5/9/24  
CASE NO./NAME: 19STCV18324 JOSE VALENZUELA, et al. vs A & E
APPLIANCE REPAIR SERVICE et al.
Moving Party: Defendant Five Star Service Company and Mikhail Moiseyevich Khanukhov
Responding Party: Plaintiff  
Notice: Sufficient  
Ruling: MOTION TO DISMISS IS GRANTED; MOTION
TO QUASH AND EX PARTE APPLICATION
ARE MOOT
 
Background
On May 24, 2019,
Plaintiff filed the present action against Defendants A & E Alliance Repair
and Arthur Hovsepyan and Does 1-100. In June 2023, the complaint was amended to
include Five Star Appliance Repair Inc., Five Star Service Company, and Mikhail
Moiseyevich Khanukhov. On August 1, 2023, the Court, acting upon Plaintiff’s
request, dismissed Five Star Appliance Repair Inc. from the action. On June 17,
2024, Defendant filed a proof of service that Defendant Khanukhov was served on
October 20, 2023. Five Star Service Company has yet to be served. Defendant Khanukhov
and Five Star Service Company now move the Court to dismiss actions against
them on the basis that the case was not brought to trial in five years pursuant
to Code Civ. Proc. § 583.310(a) and Defendants were not served within three
years pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. § 583.210(a).
Five-Year Deadline
Dismissal under the
five-year rule is premature because Emergency Rule 10 extends the deadline by
six months. Emergency Rule 10 states that notwithstanding any other law,
including Code of Civil Procedure section 583.310, for all civil actions filed
on or before April 6, 2020, the time in which to bring the action to trial is
extended by six months, for a total time of five years and six months. The
5.5-year deadline expires on November 24, 2024. 
Three-Year Deadline
Plaintiff must serve
"a defendant within three years after the action is commenced against the
defendant." (§ 583.210, subd. (a).) "[A]n action is commenced at the
time the complaint is filed." (Ibid.) Dismissal is mandatory where
a plaintiff fails to serve a defendant within the statutory time limits. (§
583.250, subd. (b).) The three-year rule applies where the defendant seeking
dismissal was served as a Doe defendant named in the original complaint, later
amended to show his or her true name. (See Higgins v. Superior Court (2017) 15
Cal.App.5th 973, 982; Lesko v. Superior Court (1982) 127
Cal.App.3d 476, 481–482.) In short, a plaintiff has three years from the date
of filing the complaint to identify and serve a Doe defendant. (Higgins v.
Superior Court, supra , at 982.)
Five Star Service
Company has not yet been served, so the three-year deadline has long passed for
this defendant. Proof of service for Khanukhov shows that he was served on
October 20, 2023. Khanukhov was served approximately four years and five months
after the complaint was filed on May 24, 2019, which is approximately one year and
five months past the three-year deadline.
Exceptions to the 3-Year Deadline
        Legal
Standard
CCP 583.250 provides
that the three-year deadline is mandatory and not subject to extension, excuse,
or exception except as expressly provided by statute.
The statutory
exceptions are contained within CCP § 583.240, which states that: 
In computing the time
within which service must be made pursuant to this article, there shall be
excluded the time during which any of the following conditions existed:
(a) The defendant was not amenable to the
process of the court.
(b) The prosecution of the action or
proceedings in the action was stayed and the stay affected service.
(c) The validity of service was the subject of
litigation by the parties.
(d) Service, for any other reason, was
impossible, impracticable, or futile due to causes beyond the plaintiff's
control. Failure to discover relevant facts or evidence is not a cause beyond
the plaintiff's control for the purpose of this subdivision.
Ca. Civ. Proc. Code § 583.240
“Amenable to the
process of the court,” for purposes of calculation the three-year period in
which a defendant must be served refers to whether the defendant was subject to
being served under the applicable constitutional and statutory provisions, not
to defendant’s reasonable availability, as practical matter, for service of
process. (Watts v. Crawford (1995) 42 Cal.Rptr.2d 81.) 
        Analysis
Plaintiff argues that Khanukhov
filed a bankruptcy petition on February 28, 2019, which was dismissed on
November 26, 2019, resulting in a stay of approximately 9 months to service. However,
Defendant was served 1 year and 5 months beyond the three-year deadline, and 9
months is insufficient to account for the total time period.
Plaintiff then argues
that service on Defendant Khanukhov was impossible, impracticable, or futile.
Plaintiff cites Dowling v. Farmers Ins. Exchange (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th
685, 693, where the court held that “the tolling provisions of Code of Civil
Procedure section 583.340 must be liberally construed consistent with the
policy favoring trial on the merits.” However, the standard of excuse for delay
in service of summons is more stringent than that applicable to a delay in
bringing a matter to trial. (Scarzella v. DeMers (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th
1762.) 
There is obvious
difference in the plain language of CCP §§ 583.340 and 583.240.
Section 583.340,
subdivision (c) provides that the prescribed time within which trial is
mandatory is tolled when doing so “was impossible, impracticable, or futile.”
Section 583.240,
subdivision (d), applicable to service of summons, adds to this standard that
timely service: “was impossible, impracticable, or futile due to causes beyond
the plaintiff's control. Failure to discover relevant facts or evidence is not
a cause beyond the plaintiff's control for the purpose of this subdivision.” 
The difference in
standards is explained in the California Law Revision Commission comment to
subdivision (d) of section 583.240. “Subdivision (d) continues the substance of
subdivision (f)(2) of former Section 581a. It is based on appellate decisions,
but it also makes clear that there is only an excuse for causes beyond the
plaintiff's control and that failure to discover relevant facts or evidence
does not excuse compliance. This overrules Hocharian v. Superior Court,
28 Cal.3d 714, 621 P.2d 829, 170 Cal.Rptr. 790 (1981). “The excuse of
impossibility, impracticability, or futility should be strictly construed in
light of the need to give a defendant adequate notice of the action so that the
defendant can take the necessary steps to preserve evidence. Contrast Section
583.340 and Comment thereto (liberal construction of excuse for failure to
bring to trial within a prescribed time). This difference in treatment is
consistent with one aspect of the policy announced in Section 583.130—plaintiff
must exercise diligence—and recognizes that service, unlike bringing to trial,
is ordinarily within the control of the plaintiff.” (Scarzella v. DeMers
(1993) 17 Cal.App.4th 1762, 1770–71)
In light of this stringent standard, the
Court analyzes Plaintiff's argument that service on Defendants was impossible,
impractical, or futile. Plaintiff essentially argues that it
recently had the suspicion that Defendant Hovsepyan was acting within the scope
of employment of Defendant Khanukhov. Specifically, Plaintiff argues that:
1. 
Defendant Hovsepyan, in his
declaration and deposition, testified under penalty of perjury that he was not
acting within the scope of employment.
2. 
Defendant Hovsepyan identified that he
was receiving his work orders from Five Star Service Company, estimating he
worked for Five Star Service Company from 2014 to 2017. The incident occurred
on July 17, 2018.
3. 
Defendant Hovsepyan did not identify
Defendant Khanukhov or disclose his business relationship with him, nor did he
disclose that he is his son-in-law.
4. 
In 2021, Defendant Hovsepyan
identified that he provided one service appointment to his client, Emily
Manninger, and finished before 12 pm, while the accident occurred around 3 pm. 
5. 
Defendant Hovsepyan testified that he
was doing personal errands at the time of the incident.
 
These arguments only
indicate that Plaintiff did not uncover the relevant facts or evidence in a
timely manner. As established in Scarzella v. DeMers, the failure to
discover relevant facts or evidence does not qualify as a cause beyond the
plaintiff's control and, therefore, does not meet the stringent standard
required to excuse the delay in service. 
The type of causes that
the court considers beyond Plaintiff’s control includes time during which acts
of prison officials frustrated the service of process and denied an indigent
prisoner his statutory right of access to the courts. This qualifies as time
during which service was impracticable or futile due to causes beyond the
plaintiff's control. (Crane v. Dolihite (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 772, 777.)
Misleading Statements
Even an attorney's
alleged false statements to a client, claiming that service of process on the
defendant had been affected, on which the client relied, did not render service
impossible, impracticable, or futile due to causes beyond the plaintiff's
control, and did not excuse plaintiff's failure to comply with the limitations
period for service of summons and complaint. (Shipley v. Sugita (1996)
50 Cal.App.4th 320, 325.)  
Plaintiff here is
making a similar but weaker argument than those advanced in Shipley,
claiming that Plaintiff was allegedly misled by Defendant Hovsepyan’s
deposition testimony. Given that under Shipley even Plaintiff’s own counsel’s
misconduct or statements were not sufficient to establish impossibility,
impracticability, or futility, it is unpersuasive to contend that the conduct
or statement of a defendant should be deemed sufficient to establish
impossibility, impracticability, or futility.
The Court does not find
Plaintiff’s argument regarding impossibility, impracticability and futility to
be persuasive and therefore declines to toll the three-year deadline on this
basis.
Estoppel
Plaintiff argues that
the three-year deadline should be estopped due to Defendant Hovsepyan’s
misleading statements. However, CCP § 583.250 states that the three-year
deadline is not subject to extension, excuse, or exception except as expressly
provided by statute. Estoppel is not one of the exceptions provided under CCP §
583.240. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing
analysis, Plaintiff’s action against Defendant Khanukhov and Five Star Service
Company are dismissed. 
Accordingly, Khanukhov’s
motion to quash service is moot, as is Plaintiff’s ex parte application
brought today.
PLEASE TAKE
NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.
 