 Case Number:  22STCV16004    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTIONS TO COMPEL RESPONSES AND REQUESTS FOR
SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 8/8/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV27032; 22STCV16004
SHIRLEY BARNES vs SAIFUL DAN-MANA, et al.
Moving Party: Defendant SPEEDWAY LLC 
Responding Party: Plaintiff 
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTIONS TO COMPEL RESPONSES ARE MOOT;
    REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS
ARE GRANTED 
 
On July 24,
2023, Defendant Speedway served its Form Interrogatories Set One, Request for
Admissions Set One, Special Interrogatories Set One, and Request for Production
of Documents Set One on Plaintiff. On August 25, 2023, Plaintiff served her
discovery responses to the initial set of discovery responses but without
verification. Defendant followed up with Plaintiff on the missing verification
numerous times via emails and letters from April 2024 to June 2024 and agreed
to hold off on filing a motion if Plaintiff can provide the verifications by
June 5, 2024. However, as of July 3, 2024, when the present motions were filed,
Plaintiff has not provided the verifications at issue.
 
On July 24,
Plaintiff’s counsel filed a declaration stating that on July 8, 2024, Plaintiff
provided the verifications at issue. The motions to compel are now moot as
Plaintiff has served the verifications. Only the issue of sanctions remains. 
 
Sanctions are
imposed in part to compensate Defendant for having to bring the motion to seek
compliance, and Plaintiff only provided the verifications after the motions
were filed. The Court notes that the initial responses were served on August
25, 2023; despite numerous emails and letters requesting the verifications,
they were not provided for almost a year. However, five days after the motion
was filed, Plaintiff provided the verifications. The Court finds that Plaintiff
did not act with substantial justification. Therefore, the Court grants
sanctions but, in consideration of the simplicity of the issues, reduces the
sanctions to $2,000 for all three motions against Plaintiff and her counsel,
jointly and severally, payable to Defendant within 30 days.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 
 