 Case Number:  24STCV09555    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
LINCOLN ALLINE,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
WINDSOR GARDENS CONVALESCENT HOSPITAL,
  INC., et al., 
                        
                       Defendants. 


 
  Case No.:  24STCV09555
  Hearing Date:  July 31, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiff’s motion for trial preference 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On April 16, 2024, Plaintiff Lincoln
Alline, through attorney-in-fact Kathryn Higgins, filed this action against
Defendants Windsor Gardens Convalescent Hospital, Inc., SNF Management, Inc.,
Antelope Holdings II, LLC, and Antelope Holdings III, LLC. The complaint
asserts causes of action for (1) negligence, (2) elder abuse, and (3) violation
of the Patient Bill of Rights. 
            On May 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
instant motion for trial preference on the grounds that he is 91 years old and
suffers from multiple debilitating conditions, including Parkinson’s disease. 
LEGAL STANDARD
“A party to a civil action who is over 70
years of age may petition the court for a preference, which the court shall
grant if the court makes both of the following findings: (1) The party has a
substantial interest in the action as a whole. (2) The health of the party is
such that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the party’s interest
in the litigation.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 36(a).) “Upon the granting of such a
motion for preference, the court shall set the matter for trial not more than
120 days from that date.” (Id., § 36(f).) The statute makes preference
mandatory if the conditions are met, regardless of prejudice to the other
party. (Swaithes v. Superior Court (1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 1082, 1085-86.)
DISCUSSION
            “The issue under [section 36]
subdivision (a) is not whether an elderly litigant might die before trial or
become so disabled that she might as well be absent when trial is called.” (Fox
v. Superior Court (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 529, 534.) Instead, all section
36(a) requires is a showing that the party’s health is such that his or her
interest in the litigation would be prejudiced without a trial preference. (Ibid.)
This showing “includes no requirement of a doctor's declaration.” (Ibid.)
“To the contrary, a motion under subdivision (a) may be supported by nothing
more than an attorney's declaration ‘based upon information and belief as to
the medical diagnosis and prognosis of any party.’” (Ibid., quoting Code
Civ. Proc., § 36.5.)   
            “Elderly litigants are clearly
entitled to have their case effectively tried and to the opportunity to
enjoy during their own lifetime any benefits received.” (Swaithes,
supra, 212 Cal.App.3d at p. 1086.) Here, Plaintiff’s evidence shows that
Plaintiff is 91 years old with “Parkinson’s Disease, dementia, history of
falls, glaucoma, osteoarthritis, carpel tunnel syndrome, hypotension, atrial
fibrillation, and benign prostatic hyperplasia.” (Spinazze Decl. ¶ 2, Ex. A-C.)
These include “medical conditions that are incurable and cause gradual
deterioration of the sufferer.” (Ibid.) In particular, Parkinson’s is
degenerative and causes gradual “loss of motor function, thinking and
behavioral problems, and dementia.” (Id., ¶ 3.) This sufficiently
demonstrates that Plaintiff is over 70 years old and that his interest in the
litigation would be prejudiced without a trial preference.  
 
 