 Case Number:  23STCV18404    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
HEATHER TOOMES,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
UHC OF CALIFORNIA, 
                        Defendant.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV18404
  Hearing Date:  July 31, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant’s motions to compel further
  responses 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On August 3, 2023, Plaintiff Heather
Toomes filed this action against Defendant UHC of California, asserting causes
of action for breach of contract and breach of the implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing. The complaint alleges that Defendant wrongfully refused
to authorize a needed surgery for Plaintiff based on surgery guidelines that
were biased and financially-driven. 
            On July 8, 2024, Defendant filed the
instant two motions to compel further responses to its Special Interrogatories
and Requests for Production. Plaintiff filed her oppositions on July 18, 2024. Defendant
filed its replies on July 24, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
Upon receiving responses to its discovery
requests, the propounding party may move for an order compelling further
responses if the responses are incomplete or evasive, or objections are without
merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(a), 2031.310(a),
2033.290(a).) 
The party seeking production of documents
bears the initial burden of showing good cause through a fact-specific showing
of relevance. (Kirkland v. Superior Court (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 92, 98.)
Once this showing is made, the burden shifts to the responding party to justify
any objections. (Ibid.) 
MEET AND CONFER
A motion to compel further must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration demonstrating an attempt to
resolve the matter informally. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(b)(1),
2031.310(b), 2033.290(b).) The Court finds that Defendant has satisfied the
meet and confer requirement. (See Suarez Decl.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Special Interrogatories
            a. SROG Nos. 1-9
            SROG Nos. 1-9 ask Plaintiff to state
the amount and calculation of her various claimed damages. Plaintiff objected
to the requests on the following pertinent grounds: (i) the requests seek
premature expert discovery; (ii) the damages are ongoing; and (iii) there is no
fixed standard for calculating pain and suffering. Plaintiff listed the types
of damages that she has suffered but not the amounts or calculation.  
Defendant argues that Plaintiff should
have at least listed the amounts that are calculable at this time, including
out-of-pocket expenses already incurred. An interrogatory “shall be answered to
the extent possible.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.220(b).) To the extent Plaintiff
seeks to recover damages that are presently capable of calculation without
resort to expert opinion, she must answer the interrogatory accordingly.   
Plaintiff argues that a precise amount or
calculation of out-of-pocket expenses is not necessary because “an insurer’s
failure to provide contractually mandated benefits, in and of itself, is
sufficient to establish that the plaintiff suffered ‘economic loss.’” (Opp.
3:22-26.) However, the SROGs seek to establish not only the fact of Plaintiff’s
economic loss, but also its extent. Defendant is entitled to ascertain what
Plaintiff claims her damages are and how she calculated them. Plaintiff cannot
unilaterally decide that such information is unnecessary and then refuse to
answer the interrogatories. The standard for discoverable information is broad:
“any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is
relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action or to the
determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter either is itself
admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.)  
If Plaintiff has information allowing her
to answer the interrogatories, even partially, and she refuses to provide it,
then her responses are not “as complete and straightforward as the information
reasonably available to the responding party permits.” (See Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.220(a).) If Plaintiff cannot answer the interrogatories, she must provide
a code-compliant response to that effect. (See id., § 2030.220(c).) 
Therefore, the motion is GRANTED as to
SROG Nos. 1-9. 
b. SROG Nos. 13-14
SROG Nos. 13-14 ask Plaintiff to identify
the facts and documents supporting Plaintiff’s allegation that the surgery she
requested has been shown to be effective in treating her condition. Plaintiff
responded with the following: “with the express reservation that any response
to this interrogatory is without prejudice to utilizing additional facts which
will be learned in discovery and analyzed as litigation progresses, Plaintiff
responds that facts known to date that support her claims include, but
are not limited to, the following: Documents Bates Toomes_000187-288.”
This response implies that Plaintiff
possesses further information “to date” (i.e., presently) beyond the
document identified. Plaintiff cannot inform Defendant that she has additional
responsive information and then refuse to provide it. If the single document
constitutes all responsive information currently in Plaintiff’s possession, Plaintiff
should amend her response to unambiguously reflect that. 
Therefore, the motion is GRANTED as to
SROG Nos. 13-14.
c. SROG Nos. 27-28
SROG No. 27 asks Plaintiff to identify the
misrepresentations that Defendant allegedly made to her regarding the medical guidelines
for approving her surgery. SROG No. 28 asks for all facts supporting
Plaintiff’s allegation that Defendant made those misrepresentations. 
Plaintiff objected to SROG No. 27 as
vague, overbroad, and unduly burdensome. These objections are without merit.
The interrogatory is clear and simply asks Plaintiff to identify the
misrepresentations that are alleged in her own complaint. As for SROG No. 28,
Plaintiff has failed to provide details regarding the alleged
misrepresentations, which should be in her possession because she is the one
alleging that misrepresentations were made to her. 
Therefore, the motion is GRANTED as to
SROG Nos. 27-28. 
II.
Requests for Production
            a. Identification of Documents
Responsive to Each Request
            “Any documents or category of
documents produced in response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling shall be identified with the specific request number to which the
documents respond.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.280(a).) Plaintiff shall either
label her production accordingly or amend her responses to provide the bates
numbers responsive to each RFP. 
            b. RFP Nos. 1-9, 18
            Defendant argues that Plaintiff has
not produced all documents responsive to RFP Nos. 1-9 and 18 despite responding
with statements of compliance. (Suarez Decl. ¶ 19.)  
Plaintiff’s contention regarding these
RFPs mirrors the one she made in relation to SROG Nos. 1-9, discussed above.
Specifically, Plaintiff argues that information pertaining to out-of-pocket
expenses “is simply not necessary.” As discussed above, Plaintiff cannot
declare the information to be unnecessary and then refuse to provide a complete
response. If out-of-pocket expenses are part of Plaintiff’s claimed damages,
Defendant is entitled to obtain information on the extent of such damages.  
Therefore, the motion is GRANTED as to RFP
Nos. 1-9 and 18.    
c. RFP No. 28
            RFP No. 28 requests all documents
relied on in preparing the complaint. The Court agrees with Plaintiff that this
request is overbroad and violates attorney-client privilege and work product. “All”
documents relied on in preparing the complaint necessarily includes privileged
information. Furthermore, there is no good cause to compel Plaintiff to produce
every document conceivably related to preparing her complaint. There is no
indication that such information would be relevant to the substantive merits of
the claims. This RFP fails to “specifically describ[e] each individual item or
. . . reasonably particulariz[e] each category of item.” (See Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.030(c)(1).) 
To the extent Defendant seeks to ascertain
the basis for Plaintiff’s claims, Defendant can propound discovery requests for
information pertaining to specific allegations from the complaint or specific
issues implicated by the allegations. Obtaining every document involved in
preparing the complaint is unwarranted.    
            Therefore, the motion is DENIED as
to RFP No. 28. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant’s motions to compel
further responses are GRANTED in part as set forth above. Plaintiff shall
produce further responses and responsive documents within 15 days of this
order. 