 Case Number:  22STCV38966    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  73 06/07/24

Dept. 73

Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 

 

GONZALEZ v. REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY
OF CALIFORNIA, et al. (22STCV38966)

 

Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party:  Omid Nosrati
(Nosrati Law)

Counsel for
Defendant Regents of the University of California/moving party:  Elisabeth Frater (Burke, Williams &
Sorenson, LLP)

 

MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT (filed by Defendant Regents of the
University of California on 03/06/2024)

 

TENTATIVE RULING

 

Defendant Regent’s motion for summary adjudication as to Plaintiff’s third and fourth causes
of action is GRANTED. 

Defendant Regent’s motion for summary adjudication as to Plaintiff’s eighth, ninth and
tenth causes of action is MOOT. 

I. BACKGROUND

 

On December 15, 2022, Plaintiff Ana Gonzalez (“Plaintiff”) filed
this employment action against Defendants The Regents of the University of
California (“Regents”) and Frederick Bush (“Bush”) alleging the following
causes of action:

            

C/A 1: Discrimination Based on
Gender [Gov. Code § 12940(a)] against the Regents

C/A 2: Discrimination Based on
Race [Gov. Code § 12940(a)] against the Regents

C/A 3: Harassment Based on Gender
[Gov’t Code § 12940(j) against the Regents and Bush

C/A 4: Harassment Based on Race
[Gov’t Code § 12940(j)] against the Regents and Bush

C/A 5: Discrimination Based on
Disability [Gov. Code § 12940(a)] against the Regents

C/A 6: Failure to Prevent
Discrimination and Harassment [Gov’t Code § 12940(k)] against the 

Regents

C/A 7: Failure to Provide
Reasonable Accommodations [Gov. Code § 12940(m)] against the 

Regents

C/A 8: Failure to Engage in the
Interactive Process [Gov. Code § 12940(n)] against the Regents

C/A 9: Retaliation in Violation of
the FEHA [Gov. Code § 12940(h) and 12940(m)(2)] against the 

Regents

C/A 10: Whistleblower Retaliation
[Labor Code § 1102.5] against the Regents

 

The Complaint alleges the following. On or around
July 2020, Plaintiff, a Hispanic woman, was hired by the Regents as a Director
of Development at the UCLA School of Theater, Film & Television (“TFT”). (Compl., ¶ 12.) Plaintiff’s direct
supervisor was Bush, the Assistant Dean, Development & Alumni Affairs; UCLA
School of Theater, Film and Television. (Ibid.) Throughout Plaintiff’s
employment, Bush regularly displayed sexist, racist, and aggressive behavior
directly to Plaintiff as well as other female employees. Plaintiff alleges Bush
had a preference for hiring minority and/or disabled female employees because
he believed he could control them and they would be unable to advance further
within in the organization due to their female, minority, and/or disabled
status. (Id., ¶ 13.) Plaintiff
made multiple complaints about Bush’s conduct, such as to the Human Resource
Director for UCLA External Affairs, but she alleges her complaints were not
taken seriously. (Id., ¶¶ 25-29.)
Plaintiff was constructively terminated on August 30, 2022. (Id., ¶ 59.)

 

On May 8,
2024, Plaintiff filed a request for dismissal of the eighth, ninth and tenth
causes of action.

On 03/06/2024, Defendant Regents filed a
motion for summary judgment or alternatively, summary adjudication, arguing:

·        
The Regents move for summary judgment or
adjudication on all Plaintiff’s causes of action

·        
There is no triable issue as to any material fact and The Regents
is entitled to judgment as a matter of law against Plaintiff as to the First
Cause of Action for Gender Discrimination in violation of the FEHA

·        
There is no triable issue as to any material fact and The Regents
is entitled to judgment as a matter of law against Plaintiff as to the Second
Cause of Action for Racial Discrimination in violation of the FEHA

·        
There is no triable issue as to any material fact and The Regents
is entitled to judgment as a matter of law against Plaintiff as to the Third
Cause of Action for Gender Harassment in violation of the FEHA

·        
There is no triable issue as to any material fact and The Regents
is entitled to judgment as a matter of law against Plaintiff as to the Fourth
Cause of Action for Racial Harassment in violation of the FEHA

·        
There is no triable issue as to any material fact and The Regents
is entitled to judgment as a matter of law against Plaintiff as to the Fifth
Cause of Action for Disability Discrimination in violation of the FEHA

·        
There is no triable issue as to any material fact and The Regents
is entitled to judgment as a matter of law against Plaintiff as to the Sixth
Cause of Action for Failure to Prevent Discrimination and Harassment in
violation of the FEHA

·        
There is no triable issue as to any material fact and The Regents
is entitled to judgment as a matter of law against Plaintiff as to the Seventh
Cause of Action for Failure to Provide Reasonable Accommodations in violation
of the FEHA

·        
There is no triable issue as to any material fact and The Regents
is entitled to judgment as a matter of law against Plaintiff as to the Eighth
Cause of Action for Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process in violation
of the FEHA; the Ninth Cause of Action for Retaliation in violation of the FEHA; and
the Tenth Cause of Action for Whistleblower Retaliation

 

In opposition, Plaintiff argues that:

·        
There are genuine issues of material fact regarding Plaintiff’s
third cause of action for gender harassment 

o   Bush
subjected Plaintiff and other female coworkers to a pattern of abuse on the
basis of their female gender and created a general atmosphere of intimidation.

§  Based on the
totality of the circumstances, Bush’s harassment of Plaintiff was sufficiently
pervasive.

§  Plaintiff’s
knowledge of Bush’s harassing conduct towards Ms. Tsalik, Ms. Stankowski, and
Ms. Biggi further demonstrated the pervasiveness of Bush’s harassing conduct
towards women.

§  Bush’s
harassment of Plaintiff unreasonably interfered with Plaintiff’s work
performance.

o   Bush’s
February 3, 2022 act of intimidation with the perceived threat of physical
violence was sufficiently severe harassment.

§  Moreover, the
retaliatory acts that Bush engaged in after the February 3, 2022 confrontation
further demonstrates the severity of Bush’s harassment of Plaintiff

o   Defendant
Bush’s harassment of Plaintiff was objectively and subjectively offensive to
create a hostile work environment

·        
There are genuine issues of material fact regarding Plaintiff’s
fourth cause of action for race harassment 

o   In Dee v.
Vintage Petroleum, Inc. (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 30, 36, the Court of Appeal
reversed summary judgment entered in favor of the employer, concluding that the
supervisor’s lone ethnic slur, combined with other evidence of abuse, raised a
triable issue of fact as to whether the employer had created a hostile work
environment due to national origin discrimination. (Id. at 35, 37.)

o   Bush harassed
Plaintiff due to her Hispanic race by regularly making disparaging comments
about Hispanics

·        
There are genuine issues of material fact regarding Plaintiff’s first
and second causes of action for gender and race discrimination

o   Plaintiff’s constructive termination was an adverse employment action

·        
There are genuine issues of material fact regarding Plaintiff’s fifth
cause of action for disability discrimination as well as to Plaintiff’s sixth
cause of action for failure to prevent and seventh cause of action for failure
to provide reasonable accommodations. 

o   The stress
and anxiety Plaintiff was diagnosed with interfered with her ability to work
and thus, is a disability under the FEHA. 

Defendant Regents filed a reply
maintaining there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and the Regents is entitled to judgment as a
matter of law against all of Plaintiff’s causes of action.

 

II. ANALYSIS

 

A.      Legal
Standard for Motion for Summary Judgment 

 

A party may
move for summary judgment “if it is contended that the action has no merit or
that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.”  (Cal. Civ. Proc.
Code § 437c(a).)   “Summary judgment shall be granted if all the
papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact
and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law. 
In determining if the papers show that there is no triable issue as to any
material fact, the court shall consider all of the evidence set forth in the
papers, except the evidence to which objections have been made and sustained by
the court, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence, except
summary judgment shall not be granted by the court based on inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence if contradicted by other inferences or
evidence that raise a triable issue as to any material fact.”  (Id.,
§ 437c, subd. (c).) 

 

A defendant
moving for summary judgment must show “that one or more elements of the cause
of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to
the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); see also,
Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (o).) 

 

“The
defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an
element of the plaintiff's cause of action.  The defendant may also
present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably
obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following
extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered nothing.  But…
the defendant must indeed present evidence."  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 855 [italics in
original].)   “In other words, all that the defendant need do is to
show that the plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of
action--for example, that the plaintiff cannot prove element¿X.”  (Id.,
at 853.) The court in Aguilar distilled summary judgment to “a
single proposition:  If a party moving for summary judgment in any action
. . . would prevail at trial without submission of any issue of material fact
to a trier of fact for determination, then he should prevail on summary
judgment.  In such a case . . . the ‘court should grant’ the motion ‘and
“avoid a . . . trial’ rendered ‘useless’ by nonsuit or directed verdict or
similar device.  (Id. at 855.) 

 

As noted in Aguilar,
“the party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to
make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material
fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the
opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a
prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material
fact.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 850.)  Thus, courts
usually follow a three-step analysis: “First, we identify the issues framed by
the pleadings . . . . [¶] Secondly, we determine whether the moving party’s
showing has established facts which negate the opponent’s claim and justify a
judgment in movant’s favor. . . . [¶] When a . . . motion prima facie justifies
a judgment, the third and final step is to determine whether the opposition
demonstrates the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”  (Ojavan
Investors, Inc. v. Cal. Coastal Comm. (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 373, 385
[citation and footnote omitted].) 

  

Opposing
parties must present substantial evidence in order to avoid summary
judgment.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,
163.)  “In some instances…, ‘evidence may be so lacking in probative value
that it fails to raise any triable issue.’”  (Whitmire v.
Ingersoll-Rand Co. (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1078, 1083-1084.)  “A
complete failure of proof concerning an essential element of the nonmoving
party's case necessarily renders all other facts immaterial.”  (Hunter
v. Pacific Mechanical Corp (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1282, 1286, disapproved on
other grounds by Aguilar, supra, at 865; accord Saelzler v. Advanced
Group 400 (2001) 25 Cal.4th 763, 780 [“‘If the plaintiff is unable to meet
her burden of proof regarding an essential element of her case, all other facts
are rendered immaterial.’”].) 

 

Courts
“construe the moving party's affidavits strictly, construe the opponent's
affidavits liberally, and resolve doubts about the¿propriety¿of granting the
motion in favor of the party opposing it.’” (Unilab Corp.v. Angeles-IPA
(2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 622, 636; internal citation omitted.) 
“The court focuses on issue finding; it does not resolve issues of fact. The
court seeks to find contradictions in the evidence, or inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence, which raise a triable issue of material
fact.”  (Johnson v. United Cerebral Palsy, etc. (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 740, 754; internal citation omitted.)   
"[S]ummary judgment cannot be granted when the facts are susceptible [of]
more than one reasonable inference...” (Rosas v. BASF Corp.¿(2015) 236
Cal.App.4th 1378, 1392.) 

 

B.      Evidentiary
Objections

 

The Court rules on Defendant Regent’s objections Nos. 1-22 to
Plaintiff’s evidence in support of her opposition as follows:

·        
Nos. 1-12: Sustained. (Evidence Code §1101(a).)

·        
Nos. 13-17: Overruled.

·        
Nos. 18-21: Sustained. (Evidence Code §1101(a).)

·        
No. 22: Sustained. (Lacks foundation.)

 

C.      Third Cause
of Action for Harassment based on Gender

 

The Regent’s moves
for summary judgment as to the third cause of action on the ground that

Plaintiff
is unable to establish a prima facie claim for harassment based on her gender. 

 

To establish a prima facie case for¿harassment, a plaintiff must show
that (1) he was a member of a protected class; (2) he was subjected to
unwelcome¿harassment; (3) the¿harassment¿was based on¿a protected
characteristic; and (4) the¿harassment¿unreasonably interfered with his work
performance by creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment.
(Thompson v. City of Monrovia¿(2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 860, 876.)¿¿“The
law prohibiting harassment is violated when the workplace is permeated with
discriminatory intimidation, ridicule and insult that is sufficiently severe or
pervasive to alter the¿conditions of the victim’s employment and create an
abusive working environment.” (Nazir v. United Airlines, Inc.¿(2009) 178
Cal.App.4th 243, 263 [internal quotations¿and brackets¿omitted].)

 

A single incident of harassment may be enough to constitute a hostile
work environment if it “unreasonably interfered with the plaintiff’s work
performance or created an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working
environment.”¿ (Gov. Code, § 12923, subd. (b).)¿ The court shall use the
totality of the circumstances to determine whether there exists a hostile work
environment.¿ (Gov. Code, § 12923, subd. (c).)¿ Where the evidence establishes
that Plaintiff did not endure conduct "so severe and pervasive as to alter
the conditions of his employment," summary judgement is appropriate. (McCoy
v. Pacific Maritime Association (2013) 216 Cal. App. 4th 283, 294.)

 

Plaintiff alleges the following conduct constituted harassment based on her
gender: 

(1) “In or around
December 2021, Plaintiff, her husband, and their six year-old daughter attended
a holiday theatre performance at the behest of BUSH who said he attended the
performance every holiday season. However, shortly after the performance began,
Plaintiff and her family left due to the performance's sexually explicit
pornography and explicit language. BUSH appeared amused when Plaintiff and her
family left the performance.” (Compl.,
¶ 17.); 

(2) “In or around
December 2021, Plaintiff was holding a Zoom meeting to tell her coworker about
their assigned roles on a project. While Plaintiff was telling one of her
female coworkers about the coworker's role, BUSH cutoff Plaintiff by
interrupting her and took over the remainder of the presentation. After the
Zoom call, BUSH went into Plaintiff’s office and said, "Sorry, but I
needed to mansplain that for you" or words similar to that effect. After
making the comment, BUSH stood in Plaintiff's office and stared at her for
several minutes in an intimidating manner.” (Compl., ¶ 18.);

(3) “While
talking to Plaintiff, BUSH would routinely make disparaging comments about a
female co-worker, Noela Hueso. BUSH called her names such as "idiot”
'"stupid," and made disparaging comment such as "she's a
disaster" and "she can't tell the difference between her contacts and
her dry cleaner," or words similar to that effect”, which GONZALEZ
considered sexist.” (Compl., ¶ 20.);

(4) “In
addition, BUSH would regularly disparage Deb Widener, a female board member,
making comments such as "she's unhappy because nobody wants to fuck her”
or words similar to that effect.” (Ibid.);

(5) Plaintiff
considered Bush sexist for commenting on her appearance, and for commenting
upon another female colleague’s appearance when Bush criticized the colleague’s
attire as “too sexy.” (UMF No. 11);

(6) On or
around February 3, 2022, Plaintiff alleged that Bush yelled at her for
contradicting him with his arms at his side and fists clenched, which
frightened Plaintiff, who felt threatened. (Compl., ¶ 23.).

 

In the Regent’s motion, it argues that even if Plaintiff’s allegations
were true, Bush’s conduct does not rise to the level of actionable harassment
because (1) Plaintiff has not sufficiently shown Bush’s alleged harassment was
based on Plaintiff’s gender and (2) the alleged conduct is not sufficiently
severe or pervasive. The Court agrees. While Plaintiff alleges she considered
Bush’s actions “sexist”, Plaintiff does not specify how Bush’s actions were
based on Plaintiff being a woman and that Bush would not have taken such
actions if Plaintiff was not a woman. While Plaintiff alleges Bush regularly made
disparaging comments about female coworkers, it does not appear that the
comments he made were sufficiently severe or pervasive. The “law does not exhibit ‘zero tolerance’ for offensive words and
conduct. Rather, the law requires the plaintiff to meet a threshold standard of
severity or pervasiveness.” (Etter v. Veriflo Corp. (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 457, 467.) “FEHA’s prohibitions are not a ‘civility code’ and are
not designed to rid the workplace of vulgarity.” (Sheffield v. Los Angeles
County Dept. of Social Services (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 153, 162–162.) Bush’s comments about Noela Hueso and Deb
Widener appear to be offensive utterances but do not appear to be “severe” such
as by being physically threatening, epithets or slurs. Further, the few
incidents that Plaintiff also alleged was harassing conduct, such as the
comment Bush made about mansplaining, yelling at Plaintiff for contradicting
him in a Zoom meeting, and inviting her to an inappropriate performance, do not
appear to be based on Plaintiff’s gender and appear to be isolated incidents. Plaintiff
must show harassment of a repeated, routine or generalized nature, especially
when harassing conduct is not severe. (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th
1035, 1043.) The Regents
has shown that the alleged conduct does not constitute actionable harassment. The
Regents thus carries its initial burden. 

 

In opposition, Plaintiff argues
Bush’s conduct was sufficiently pervasive and severe to create a hostile work
environment. First, Plaintiff asserts Bush’s alleged harassment was based on
her gender and Plaintiff submits as evidence the declarations of past female
employees who assert that Bush also harassed them based on their gender. Courts
have allowed “me too” evidence to “prove a defendant's motive or intent even
where the conduct occurred outside the plaintiff's presence and at times other
than when the plaintiff was employed.” (Meeks v. Autozone, Inc.
(2018) 24 Cal. App. 5th 855, 871.) Plaintiff provides the declarations as
circumstantial evidence as to Bush’s motive. However, the declarations provide
conclusory testimony. For example, in the declaration of Kristen Stankowski,
she merely states she believes “that Mr. Bush targeted me because I am a woman”
and that she filed complaints of harassment and discrimination based on her
gender. (Stankowski Decl., ¶¶ 5, 14.) The other employees do not allege
specific facts or incidents. Thus, the Court does not find Plaintiff’s
circumstantial evidence very persuasive. 

 

Second, Plaintiff asserts that the February 3, 2022 incident was sufficiently
severe. The Complaint alleges that on or around February 3, 2022, Plaintiff, Bush,
and other coworkers had a Zoom meeting, during which Plaintiff expressed
disagreement with Bush. “Immediately after the Zoom meeting ended, BUSH barged
into Plaintiff’s office and pushed open her door so forcefully that Plaintiff
stumbled back. BUSH, who is at least six inches taller and weighs approximately
100 pounds more than Plaintiff, closed the door to Plaintiff’s office, blocked
Plaintiff from leaving the office, and positioned himself only inches away from
Plaintiff’s face. Then with his fists clenched at his side, BUSH screamed,
“Don’t you ever confront or contradict me like that again!” BUSH continued to
scream at Plaintiff for being confrontational because she simply disagreed with
him about his comments regarding Ms. Hobson. BUSH then sat in Plaintiff’s
office and aggressively stared at her for several minutes before leaving.
During this encounter, Plaintiff feared that BUSH was going to physically
attack her.” (Compl., ¶ 23.) Plaintiff
cites to Sheffield v. Los Angeles County Dept. of Social Services (2003)
109 Cal.App.4th 153, 163 where the court held there was genuine issue of
material fact regarding the severity of the harassing conduct where the harassing
defendant, who was much bigger than plaintiff, made a threat of violence by
making a fist and slamming it into her other palm while looking at the
plaintiff. However, the Court notes that in Sheffield, the defendant’s slamming
of her fist into her palm was done after repeated, harassing phone calls to the
plaintiff after the plaintiff rebuffed defendant’s request for a date. (Ibid.)
Here, the incident with Bush doesn’t seem to rise to the level of severity to
constitute harassment as it only occurred once, Bush did not yell at her
regularly, and during this incident his fists were clenched at his side as
opposed to slamming it into his fist. Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff has not
shown the alleged conduct is severe and pervasive to constitute harassment. Plaintiff
fails to create a triable issue of material fact regarding her third cause of
action. 

 

In sum, the Court finds that the Regents have met their burden to show Bush’s
conduct did not constitute harassment. Plaintiff failed to meet her burden of raising
triable issues of material fact. As such, summary adjudication for the third
cause of action in the Complaint for harassment based on gender is GRANTED.

 

D.     Fourth Cause
of Action for Harassment based on Race

 

The Regent’s
also move for summary judgment as to the fourth cause of action on the ground
that

Plaintiff
is unable to establish a prima facie claim for harassment based on her race. 

 

The Complaint alleges the following
conduct constituted harassment based on Plaintiff’s race:

(1) “In or around March 2021, BUSH informed Plaintiff that he
would be recommending that she serve as the Development Liaison to the
Chancellor's Council of the Arts because the council was too white, Plaintiff
was Latina, and had a background fundraising in the arts. Plaintiff felt
tokenized due to her Hispanic race.” (Compl.,
¶ 14.);

(2) “In or around August 2021, BUSH asked Plaintiff to attend a
Latino donor event at the donor’s house. BUSH insisted on driving and taking
Plaintiff home. Although Plaintiff declined BUSH’s offer to drive, he
relentlessly insisted that he drive. BUSH made Plaintiff feel pressured to
agree as if she had no choice. While driving to the event, BUSH became
extremely aggressive and violent in a terrifying display of road rage. BUSH was
screaming and cursing at another driver and almost caused the car to crash. Plaintiff
felt terrified and was worried that she would be the target of his anger if she
did not empathize with his feelings.”
(Compl., ¶ 15.);

(3) “In response to Plaintiff stating that she drove to Boyle
Heights to get tamales, BUSH stated, "I don't go to the East Side of LA,
it's too Latino,'' or words similar to that effect.” (Compl., ¶ 16.);

(4) BUSH made derogatory remarks about black donors.
“Specifically, when speaking about Felicia Henderson, an African-American
female donor, BUSH told Plaintiff, ''You'll never see a dime from her," or
words similar to that effect.” (Compl.,
¶ 20.);

(5) “BUSH complained to Plaintiff about having to research
potential Mexican donor leads” …and “handed Plaintiff the list to review and
asked if she knew any of the donors. Plaintiff was offended because she felt
like she was being tokenized due to her Hispanic race.” (Compl., ¶ 19.);

(6) “On or around February 3, 2022, Plaintiff, BUSH, and other
coworkers had a Zoom meeting to discuss a proposal to a private foundation for
the cinema collection of the first African American female filmmaker. During
the meeting, BUSH stated that the proposal would be a good project for Mellody
Hobson and stated, “it’s so great that Mellody has her little pet project,” or
words similar to that effect. Plaintiff immediately stated that she did not
agree with BUSH and she did not feel it was appropriate to tokenize Ms. Hobson
based on her race or to diminish her role in the Hobson-Luca Foundation based
on her sex.” (Compl., ¶ 22.)

 

The Regents argue these occasional comments were not severe or
pervasive to constitute actionable harassment. The Court agrees. The incident that
occurred in or around August 2021 where Bush allegedly experience road rage does
not appear to be related to race. Although it appears that the other comments made by Bush are
based on race and Plaintiff alleges she found them offensive, the Court finds
these statements do not rise to the level of severe or pervasive. Harassment
that is occasional, isolated, or sporadic is insufficient. Plaintiff must show
harassment of a repeated, routine or generalized nature, especially when
harassing conduct is not severe. (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035,
1043; see McCoy v. Pacific Maritime Assn. (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 283,
294 [finding that, over the four months plaintiff worked in the office, at the
most nine comments were made to plaintiff, and this was insufficient to show
that the workplace was permeated with harassment].) Here, Plaintiff only points
to five incidents where she felt that Bush made racial comments. The Regents has shown that the comments he made were not severe or
pervasive. The Regents thus carries its initial burden. 

 

In opposition, Plaintiff fails
to carry her burden. Plaintiff submits as evidence the declaration of another
female employee who had worked with Bush who stated that Bush made disparaging
comments about her boyfriend’s Mexican race. She states “at one point Jonathan
was purchasing a new vehicle, which Mr. Bush learned about. In response, Mr.
Bush stated that he imagined that Jonathan would drive a lowrider, which is a
stereotype of the type of vehicle that Mexican individuals drive. Mr. Bush also
made comments saying, “I feel like Jonathan would have his hair slicked back”
which is another stereotype relating to Mexicans. Bush also said, “I don’t go
east of La Brea Avenue,” and he would make negative comments about the fact
that Jonathan’s family lived in Monterey Park. Mr. Bush would tell me “why are
you going over there?” as if it was a bad thing.” (Tsalik Decl., ¶ 8.) While
these comments provide circumstantial evidence of Bush’s motive and intent,
they do not prove Bush had a propensity to harass or the pervasiveness of
harassment in Plaintiff’s work environment. (Brennan v. Townsend &
O'Leary Enterprises, Inc. (2011) 199 Cal. App.
4th 1336, 1359.) Next, Plaintiff cites to Dee v.
Vintage Petroleum, Inc. (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 30, 36, in which the court
found a single discriminatory comment, combined with other evidence of abuse,
made by a supervisor about the plaintiff’s ethnicity, “it is your Filipino
understanding versus mine,” as sufficient to raise a triable issue of fact. The
Court of Appeal concluded the “Filipino understanding” comment was “an ethnic
slur, both abusive and hostile.” (Ibid.) On the other hand here, while
Bush’s comments are offensive to Plaintiff, they do not consist of ethnic slurs
or other abusive language. Plaintiff fails to show that Bush’s conduct was
severe or pervasive, thus, Plaintiff fails to carry her burden.

 

Therefore, the court GRANTS summary adjudication as to Plaintiff’s
fourth cause of action for harassment based on her race.

 

A.      First and
Second Causes of Action for Discrimination based on Gender and Race

 

The Regent’s argue that Plaintiff cannot prevail on this cause of action
because Plaintiff did not suffer an adverse employment action.¿¿ 

 

The
California Supreme Court has adopted the federal burden-shifting test for
assessing employment discrimination claims. (Guz v. Bechtel National, Inc. (2000)
24 Cal.4th 317, 354.) To establish a prima facie case of discrimination, the
Plaintiff must show that (1) the employee is a member of a protected class; (2)
the employee was qualified for the position sought or performing competently in
the position held; (3) the employee suffered an adverse employment action; and
(4) some other circumstance suggests a discriminatory motive. (See McDonnell
Douglas Corp. v. Green (1973) 411 U.S. 792, 802.) To challenge an
employment discrimination claim on summary judgment, an employer must either
show that one or more of the prima facie elements is lacking, or must offer a
legitimate, nonretaliatory reason for the adverse employment action. (See Caldwell
v. Paramount Unified Sch. Dist. (1995) 41 Cal.App.4th 189.)¿ If the
employer produces a legitimate reason for the adverse employment action, the
presumption of discrimination “drops out of the picture,” and the burden shifts
back to the employee to prove that the claimed legitimate reason is merely a
pretext. (Yanowitz v. L'Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th
1028, 1042.)¿ 

¿ 

"In
responding to the employer's showing of a legitimate reason for the
complained-of action, . . . '" . . . the employee' "must demonstrate
such weaknesses, implausibilities, inconsistencies, incoherencies, or
contradictions in the employer's proffered legitimate reasons for its action
that a reasonable factfinder¿could¿rationally find them 'unworthy of
credence,' [citation], and hence infer 'that the employer did not act for the [
. . . asserted] non-discriminatory reasons.' [Citations.]" '" '"
(McRae v. Department of Corrections & Rehabilitation¿(2006)¿142
Cal.App.4th 377, 388-389.) "The plaintiff must do more than raise the
inference that the employer's asserted reason is false. '[A] reason cannot be
proved to be "a pretext¿for discrimination" unless it is
shown¿both¿that the reason was false,¿and¿that discrimination was
the real reason.' [Citation.] If the plaintiff produces¿no¿evidence from
which a reasonable fact finder could infer that the employer's true reason was
discriminatory, the employer is entitled to summary judgment. [Citation.]"
(Hicks v. KNTV Television, Inc.¿(2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 994, 1003.)¿ 

¿ 

"Although
an employee's evidence submitted in opposition to an employer's motion for
summary judgment is construed liberally, it 'remains subject to careful
scrutiny.' [Citation.] The employee's 'subjective beliefs in an employment
discrimination case do not create a genuine issue of fact; nor do
uncorroborated and self-serving declarations.' [Citation.] The employee's
evidence must relate to the motivation of the decision makers and prove, by
nonspeculative evidence, 'an actual causal link between prohibited motivation
and [discrimination].'" (Featherstone v. Southern California Permanente
Medical Group¿(2017)¿10 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1159.)¿

 

An “adverse employment action” is an action that has a substantial
and material adverse effect on the terms, conditions, or privileges of
employment. (Yanowitz v. L'Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028,
1051-1052.) “A change that is merely contrary to the employees interests or not
to the employee's liking is insufficient.” (McRae v. Department of
Corrections & Rehabilitation (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 377, 386-387.)
“[S]imple teasing . . . offhand comments, and isolated incidents (unless
extremely serious) will not amount to discriminatory changes in the ‘terms and
conditions of employment.’” (Etter v. Veriflo Corp. (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 457, 463.) A mere offensive utterance or even a pattern of social
slights cannot properly be viewed as materially affecting the terms,
conditions, or privileges of employment. (Yanowitz, supra, 36 Cal. 4th
at 1054.)

 

The Complaint alleges that “[a]s a result of the discriminatory treatment, Plaintiff suffered
an adverse employment action when she was constructively terminated on or
around August 30, 2022. (Compl., ¶
131.) The Complaint further alleges “Plaintiff was constructively
terminated due to Defendant’s failure to enforce its zero-tolerance policies
regarding anti-discrimination, anti-harassment, anti-racism, workplace
violence, and abuse against BUSH. Defendant’s failure to enforce the above
policies; its refusal to conduct a bonafide investigation into the numerous
complaints against BUSH; its refusal to terminate and/or discipline BUSH; its
refusal grant Plaintiff’s accommodation request to be precluded from working
with BUSH in any capacity; and its failure to guarantee Plaintiff’s protection
from BUSH subjected Plaintiff to a hostile and unsafe work environment that
resulted in her constructive termination.” (Compl., ¶ 74.)

 

The Regents argue that Plaintiff was not
constructively terminated.  “In order to amount to constructive discharge, adverse working
conditions must be unusually ‘aggravated’ or amount to a ‘continuous pattern’
before the situation will be deemed intolerable…” (Turner v. Anheuser-Busch,
Inc. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1238, 1247.) “[T]he standard by which a constructive
discharge is determined is an objective one—the question is “whether a
reasonable person faced with the allegedly intolerable employer actions or conditions
[…] would have no reasonable alternative except to quit.” (Ibid.) A
constructive discharge occurs when the employer coerces the employee’s
resignation, either by creating working conditions that are intolerable under
an objective standard, or by failing to remedy objectively intolerable working conditions
that actually are known to the employer.” (Id. at 1244.)

 

The Regents assert that Plaintiff was offered several reasonable
alternatives instead of resigning. The Regents contend it offered: “(1)
reassignment to a comparable position in another department, (2) limiting her
communications with Bush to email only, (3) a change to her work location, (4)
including a third person in meetings with Bush on a temporary basis, and (5) a
leave of absence.” (UMF No. 59.) Moreover, UCLA investigated Gonzalez’s
complaints about Bush. (UMF Nos. 39, 69.) Plaintiff’s claim of constructive
termination is further attenuated as Plaintiff has also not shown a pattern of
harassment towards her, as discussed above. Therefore, it is not evident that
Bush’s conduct toward Plaintiff created objectively intolerable working
conditions. The Regents carry its burden. 

 

Plaintiff argues that Bush subjected
Plaintiff to harassment that led to her constructive termination, and the
Regents denied Plaintiff’s requests to work remotely an additional four months
and preclude contact between Plaintiff and Bush. However, as discussed above,
the Court does not find Bush’s conduct constituted harassment. In addition,
although the Regents did not grant Plaintiff’s specific work requests, it
provided five different reasonable alternatives. Plaintiff has not carried her
burden here. Since Plaintiff cannot show she suffered constructive termination
or an adverse action, Plaintiff’s discrimination claims fail.

 

Accordingly, the Court GRANTS summary adjudication as to
Plaintiff’s first and second causes of action for discrimination based on her gender
and race.

 

B.      Fifth Cause
of Action for Discrimination Based on Disability

 

The Regents move for summary judgment as to the
cause of action for disability discrimination on the grounds that (1) Plaintiff
did not have a qualifying disability under the FEHA, and (2) Plaintiff did not
suffer an adverse employment action because of any disability.

To successfully assert a claim for discrimination, Plaintiff must
satisfy the requirements of the three-step McDonnell Douglas test. (See Guz
v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 354- 55.) Generally, a prima
facie case requires showing that (1) plaintiff was a member of a protected
class; (2) plaintiff was qualified for the position plaintiff sought or was
performing competently in the position plaintiff held; (3) plaintiff suffered
an adverse employment action, such as termination, demotion, or denial of an
available job; and (4) some other circumstance suggests discriminatory motive.
(Id. at 355.)  

In the context of disability discrimination claims, the
Courts of Appeal boil these prima facie elements down from four to three: “that
the plaintiff (1) suffered from a disability or was regarded as suffering from
a disability, (2) could perform the essential duties of a job with or without
reasonable accommodations, and (3) was subjected to an adverse employment
action because of the disability or perceived disability.” (Glynn v.
Superior Court (2019) 42 Cal.App.5th 47, 53 fn.1.)¿¿ 

 

A
physical or medical disability constitutes a disability under FEHA when that
physical or mental disability requires “a limitation upon a major life
activity.” (Gov. Code. § 129261.1(c).) The limitation need not be a substantial
one as required under the Federal Americans with Disabilities act of 1990. (Ibid.) 

 

The Complaint alleges “[o]n or around March 9, 2022, Plaintiff saw her primary care
physician, Dr. Jacob M. Gold. Dr. Gold stated that it was his medical opinion
that Plaintiff was suffering from significant mental and physical distress as a
result of continuing to work with BUSH, who Plaintiff accused of assaulting
her. Dr. Gold further ordered that Plaintiff was able to perform her job and as
long as she no longer was required to work with BUSH.” (Compl., ¶ 122.) “On or around May 13, 2022, Plaintiff was
diagnosed with anxiety and acute stress disorder as a result of BUSH’s February
3, 2022 attack and resulting retaliatory treatment.” (Compl., ¶ 126.) “On or around July 5, 2022, Plaintiff submitted
an updated doctor’s note that stated, due to her medical condition, she was
permanently precluded her from having any contact with BUSH.” (Compl., ¶ 127.)

 

The
Regents argue that the only disability Plaintiff alleges is stress due to Bush’s
supervision. However, as the Regents note, “an employee’s inability to work
under a particular supervisor because of anxiety and stress related to the
supervisor’s standard oversight of the employee’s job performance does not
constitute a mental disability under FEHA.” (Higgins-Williams
v. Sutter Med. Found. (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 78, 84.) In Higgins-Williams, the plaintiff alleged that actions by
her supervisors caused her to have a panic attack and leave work. (Id.
at 81-82.) The court found that, because the plaintiff's condition only
prevented her from working with two particular supervisors, not from working in
general, her anxiety disorder and stress did not constitute a FEHA-recognized
mental disability, and summary judgment was properly granted in favor of her
employer on all of her disability-related claims. (Id. at 84-86.). Similarly
here, Plaintiff specifically alleges
she suffered “anxiety and acute stress disorder as a result of
Bush’s February 3, 2022 attack and resulting retaliatory treatment.” (Compl., ¶ 126.) Plaintiff does not dispute
that she could otherwise perform her job, except working with Bush. Plaintiff
has not established that her anxiety and stress constituted a FEHA-recognized
mental disability. The Regents have carried their burden. 

 

The burden shifts to Plaintiff. Plaintiff argues in her opposition that Plaintiff’s diagnosis of anxiety and acute stress disorder were
qualifying disabilities because they limited her ability to work. She argues her
anxiety was often triggered when working in her office and Plaintiff was able
to effectively perform her job with the accommodation of being allowed to work
from home. Plaintiff states she received regularly recurring psychiatry
sessions from Dr. Kusens from May 2022 through April 2023. (Gonzalez Depo., at
232:11-21.) In Plaintiff’s opposition she states “[t]hus, Plaintiff’s diagnosed
anxiety disability was a FEHA recognized disability and was not merely related
to normal work stress.” (Oppos., p. 19.) However, Plaintiff does not provide
any other reason for her anxiety and stress not related to Bush or work. Plaintiff’s
contention that her anxiety and stress were not only caused by Bush and work is
unsupported. Plaintiff has not carried her burden. Plaintiff thus fails to show that a triable issue of
material fact remains over whether her stress was caused by something other
than her ability to work under a particular supervisor. Since Plaintiff
has not shown that she suffered a disability under FEHA, the Court does not discuss
the Regents argument that Plaintiff also did not suffer an adverse
employment action because of any disability.

 

Accordingly, the Court GRANTS summary adjudication as to
Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action.

 

C.      Sixth Cause
of Action for Failure to Prevent Discrimination and Harassment

The Regents move for summary judgment
as to the cause of action for failure to prevent discrimination, harassment, or
retaliation on the grounds that the summary judgment must be granted as to the
causes of action for discrimination and harassment. 

 “An actionable claim under
section 12940, subdivision (k) is dependent on a claim of actual
discrimination: ‘Employers should not be held liable to employees for failure
to take necessary steps to prevent such conduct, except where the actions took
place and were not prevented.’” (Scotch v. Art Inst. of California
(2019) 173 Cal.App.4th 986, 1021.)¿  

Summary judgment is GRANTED as to this sixth cause of action
because the motion was granted as to the causes of action for discrimination
and harassment. 

 

D.     Seventh Cause
of Action for Failure to Provide Reasonable Accommodations

 

The Regents also move for summary adjudication as to the
cause of action for failure to accommodate.  

 

“The essential elements of a failure
to accommodate claim are: 1) the plaintiff has a disability covered by the
FEHA; 2) the plaintiff is a qualified individual (i.e., he or she can perform
the essential functions of the position); and 3) the employer failed to
reasonably accommodate the plaintiff’s disability. (Jensen v. Wells Fargo
Bank (2000) 85 Cal.App.4th 245, 256.)¿ “[T]he employer cannot prevail on
summary judgment on a claim of failure to reasonably accommodate unless it
establishes through undisputed facts that ‘1) reasonable accommodation was
offered and refused, 2) there simply was no vacant position within the employer’s
organization for which the disabled employee was qualified and which disabled
employee was capable of performing with or without accommodation, or (3) the
employer did everything in its power to find a reasonable accommodation, but
the informal interactive process broke down because the employee failed to
engage in discussions in good faith.’ [Citation.]” (King v. United Parcel
Service, Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 426, 442.)¿  

 

Here, as discussed above, the Regents met its burden of
proving no triable issue of material fact remains over whether Plaintiff had a
disability covered by the FEHA. Plaintiff failed to prove a triable issue of
material fact remained over whether her disability was covered by the FEHA.
Summary judgment is GRANTED as to this cause of action for the same reasons as
the cause of action for disability discrimination. 

 

E.      Eighth, Ninth
and Tenth Causes of Action 

 

On May 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed a request for dismissal of the Eighth
Cause of Action for Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process in violation
of the FEHA, the Ninth Cause of Action for Retaliation in violation of the FEHA, and
the Tenth Cause of Action for Whistleblower Retaliation. Therefore, Defendant Regent’s motion for summary
adjudication as to Plaintiff’s eighth, ninth and tenth causes of action is MOOT. 

III. DISPOSITION

 

Defendant Regents’ motion for summary judgment on Plaintiff’s first,
second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh causes of action is GRANTED.



Defendant Regent’s motion for summary
adjudication as to Plaintiff’s eighth, ninth and tenth causes of
action is MOOT. 

 

 