  Case Number:  22STCV06871    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  73 06/07/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
ANIMAL PROTECTION AND RESCUE LEAGUE,
INC. v. DAVID CHANG, et al. (22STCV06871)
 
Counsel
for Plaintiff/moving party:  Bryan Pease
(Pease Law, APC); David Tenenbaum (Law Offices of G. David Tenenbaum); David
Simon (Simon Law Group)
 
Counsel
for Defendants/opposing party:  Scott
Burroughs (Doniger Burroughs)
 
PLAINTIFF’s Motion FOR ATTORNEYS’ FEES (filed 02/16/2024)
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion for Attorneys’ Fees is DENIED.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On February
24, 2020, Plaintiff Animal Protection and Rescue League, Inc. (“Plaintiff” or “APRL”)
filed this action against Defendants David Chang, Majordomo, MG JV LLC, Air
Food L’Appart, Marc Moubarak and Therry Babet.
 
Plaintiff
alleges two causes of action for: (1) unfair business practices and (2)
declaratory relief. Plaintiff filed the instant lawsuit to enjoin the sale of
foie gras, i.e., fattened duck liver, which is obtained from forced fed duck
and geese, and which violates Health & Safety Code section 25982.  
 
On November
20, 2023, this Court issued a final judgment on Plaintiff’s
claims stating it failed to carry its burden at trial and ruled in favor of
Defendants. 
 
On February
16, 2024, Plaintiff APRL filed a Motion for Attorneys’ Fees, arguing: 
·       Plaintiff moves for attorneys fees asserting that although it didn’t meet
its burden at trial, Plaintiff obtained the relief it was seeking through
Defendants complying with the law voluntarily as a result of the lawsuit. 
·       Under CCP
§1021.5, a plaintiff is entitled to an award of reasonable attorney fees if
four criteria are met: (1) it is the “successful party”; (2) its lawsuit has
enforced an important right affecting the public interest; (3) a significant
benefit has been conferred on the general public or a large class of persons;
and (4) the necessity and financial burden of private enforcement are such as
to make an award of fees appropriate. (CCP § 1021.5.)
·       Plaintiff
asserts it has met these criteria and the fees sought are reasonable.
 
In opposition, Defendants argue that:
·       Plaintiff’s motion is not timely. Plaintiff filed its motion more than 60 days
after notice of entry of judgment was served. 
·       Plaintiff does not satisfy the criteria of CCP §1021.5
because it was not a successful party. The Court did not find that Plaintiff had standing. The Court also stated that “[t]he individual
Defendants are not proper parties” and that “Air Food L’appart is not an entity
or a person.” Final Judgment pg. 1. Thus, “there is no defendant against whom a
judgment can be properly entered.” Id. As such, it would be inappropriate to
issue an award of attorney’s fees against Defendants against whom there could
be no judgment.
o   Defendants
conduct did not change after litigation. Defendants claim they never served foie
grase. Plaintiff cites to evidence like Yelp comments, but the Court stated in its
Final Judgment that the Yelp reference is not admissible.
o   Plaintiff’s lawsuit lacked merit
o   Settlement
efforts were not reasonable 
·       Plaintiff’s lawsuit did not enforce an important right affecting the public
interest or confer a significant benefit on the general public
·       The lawsuit
was not necessary, and the burden of private enforcement did not outweigh Plaintiff’s stake in the lawsuit
·       Should the
Court exercise discretion to award any fees, they should be reduced
·       Plaintiff’s conduct is sanctionable
In reply, Plaintiff argues that:
·       The Court
should rule on Plaintiff’s motion because it was filed due to mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect pursuant to CCP §473. 
·       The Court
stated in its Judgment that Plaintiff lacked standing, however, the
Court did not rule that as a matter of law. Plaintiff asserts that
evidence shows, including Yelp comments, that Defendants used to serve fois
grase but no longer does.
 
II.
ANALYSIS
 
A.    
Legal Standard
 
CCP §§ 1032 and 1033.5 provide that a prevailing party may
recover its costs as a matter of right, and that those costs may include attorneys’
fees when authorized by statute or contract. 
 
Section 1021.5 provides the “explicit statutory authority for
court-awarded attorney fees under a private attorney general theory” where the
lawsuit “has resulted in the enforcement of an important right affecting the
public interest regardless of its source – constitutional, statutory or other.”
(Woodland Hills Residents Assn., Inc. v. City Council, (1979) 23 Cal.3d
917, 925, quoting Cal. Code Civ. P. 1021.5 (internal quotations and emphasis omitted).
Under CCP
§1021.5, a plaintiff is entitled to an award of reasonable attorney fees if
four criteria are met: (1) it is the “successful party”; (2) its lawsuit has
enforced an important right affecting the public interest; (3) a significant
benefit has been conferred on the general public or a large class of persons;
and (4) the necessity and financial burden of private enforcement are such as
to make an award of fees appropriate. (CCP § 1021.5.)
 
“[A]bsent
circumstances rendering the award unjust, an attorney fee award should
ordinarily include compensation for all the hours reasonably spent,
including those relating solely to the fee.  We explained that the purpose
behind statutory fee authorizations—i.e., encouraging attorneys to act as
private attorneys general and to vindicate important rights affecting the
public interest—will often be frustrated, sometimes nullified, if awards are
diluted or dissipated by lengthy, uncompensated proceedings to fix or defend a
rightful fee claim.” (Ketchum v. Moses (2001) 24 Cal.4th 1122,
1133-34 (emphasis in original).)  “The fee setting inquiry in California
ordinarily begins with the ‘lodestar,’ i.e., the number of hours reasonably
expended multiplied by the reasonable hourly rate.... The lodestar figure may
then be adjusted, based on consideration of factors specific to the case, in
order to fix the fee at the fair market value for the legal services
provided.” (Id. at 1134.) Other factors to consider in fixing the
reasonableness of fees to be considered beyond the fee agreement alone include,
but are not limited to “(1) the time and labor required, the novelty and
difficulty of the questions involved, and the skill requisite to perform the
legal service properly; (2) the likelihood that the acceptance of the
particular employment will preclude other employment by the lawyer; (3) the fee
customarily charged in this locality for similar legal services; (4) the amount
involved and the results obtained; (5) the time limitations imposed by the
circumstances; and (6) the experience, reputation, and ability of the lawyer or
lawyers performing the services.” (Glendora Community Redevelopment
Agency v. Demeter (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 465, 470.)
 
B.    
Timeliness
 
First, Defendants argue the motion must
be denied because Plaintiff failed to timely file its motion.
 
California
Rules of Court Rule 3.1702(b)(1) provides the motion for a claim of attorneys’
fees for services up to and including the rendition of judgment in the trial
court must be served and filed within the time for filing a notice of appeal
under California Rules of Court Rules 8.104 and 8.108.  The deadline is mandatory. (Community
Youth Athletic Center v. City of National City (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 1385,
1444.) California Rules of Court Rule 8.104(a)(1) provides that unless
provided otherwise, a notice of appeal must be filed on or before the earliest
of “(A) 60 days after the superior court clerk serves on the party filing the
notice of appeal a document entitled “Notice of Entry” of judgment or a
filed-endorsed copy of the judgment, showing the date either was served; (B) 60
days after the party filing the notice of appeal serves or is served by a party
with a document entitled “Notice of Entry” of judgment or a filed-endorsed copy
of the judgment, showing the date either was served; or (C) 180 days after
entry of judgment.”  California Rules of Court Rule 8.108 provides
situations in which the time to appeal prescribed in Rule 8.104(a) is extended,
such as when a motion for a new trial, to vacate judgment, for judgment
notwithstanding the verdict, a cross-appeal, or a motion to reconsider an
appealable order is filed. 
 
Here,
the Clerk of the Court served by mail on Defendants the Notice of Entry of
Judgment on November 20, 2023. On November 28, 2023, Defendants filed and
served Notice of Entry of Judgment. 
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion for Attorneys’ Fees must have been served and filed by January 29, 2024.
Plaintiff served the instant motion on Defendants on January 29, 2024, but filed
its motion on February 16, 2024. 
 
Defendants
argue that since Plaintiff did not file its motion until after the deadline,
the motion should be denied. None of the situations described in California
Rules of Court Rule 8.108 apply to extend the time to file the motion and there
is also no stipulation is on record by the parties extending the time to file
the motion. 
 
However,
Plaintiff argues that the Court has discretion to consider the late filed
motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 473. 
 
“While
an attorney fee motion should be timely filed, the rule provisions are
mandatory but not jurisdictional, and on a proper showing under section 473,
the trial court may grant relief for such mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.” (Community Youth Athletic Center v. City of National
City (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 1385, 1444.) “[T]he trial court has
considerably more latitude in ruling on an extension of time to file an
attorney’s fees motion under the good cause standard of Rule 3.1702(d) than it
does granting relief from a judgment, dismissal [or] order under Code of Civil
Procedure, section 473, subdivision (b).” (Robinson v. U-Haul Co. of
California (2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 304, 327.) “Even a claim of inadvertence,
if it is not prejudicial, may constitute good cause for a late filing.” (Id.
at p. 326.) “Rule 3.1702(d) is ‘remedial’ and is to be given a liberal, rather
than strict interpretation.” (Ibid., citation omitted.) Good cause means
“a good reason for a party’s failure to perform that specific requirement [of
the statute] from which he seeks to be excused.” (Ibid.)  
 
The
party seeking relief from an untimely filed motion for attorneys’ fees “bears
the burden of proof in establishing a right to relief.” (Hopkins &
Carley v. Gens (200 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1410.) “It is simply not enough to
assert a general state of misapprehension or ignorance on some subject bearing
on a possible defense.” (Ibid.) Although “courts are liberal in
relieving parties of defaults caused by inadvertence or excusable neglect, they
do not act as guardians for incompetent parties or parties who are grossly
careless as to their own affairs. There must be rules and regulations by which
rights are determined and judgments become final.” (Id. at p. 1415,
internal quotations omitted.)   
 
“A party seeking . . . relief on the ground of
attorney error must demonstrate that the error was excusable, since the
attorney’s negligence is imputed to the client.” (Huh v. Wang (2007) 158
Cal.App.4th 1406, 1419.) “The inexcusable negligence of an attorney is usually
not a proper basis for granting the client’s motion under section 473.” (Ibid.)
“Excusable neglect is that neglect which might have been the act of a
reasonably prudent person under the same circumstances.” (Ibid.) The
“press of business alone generally does not constitute grounds for relief.” (Id.
at p. 1423.) “To constitute grounds for relief, an exceptional workload
generally must be accompanied by some factor outside the attorney’s control
that makes the situation unmanageable, such as a mistake caused by a glitch in
office machinery or an error by clerical staff.” (Id. at p. 1424.) A
court is not required to grant discretionary relief where counsel failed to
calendar a matter. (Ibid.) 
 
A party must show that their inadvertence was
excusable. (Zamora v. Clayborn Contracting Group, Inc. (2002) 28 Cal.4th
249, 258.) “In determining whether the attorney’s . . . inadvertence was
excusable, the court inquires whether a reasonably prudent person under
the same or similar circumstances might have made the same error.” (Ibid.)
“Conduct falling below the professional standard of care . . . is not therefore
excusable.” (Ibid.)  
 
Here,
Plaintiff submitted the declaration of its counsel, Bryan Pease, stating that
the motion was filed late due to mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. Pease states that
he had attempted to file the motion on January 29, 2024, but the filing was
rejected by the Court. (Pease Suppl. Decl. ¶ 6, Ex. 1.) Plaintiff did not realize the error until checking
the docket on February 16, 2024, as Defendants were supposed to have filed
their opposition by the day before, i.e. February 15, 2024, for the February
29, 2024 hearing date. (Pease Suppl. Decl. ¶¶ 7-8.) When Plaintiff did not see the motion on the docket and
then went into the efile system to see the rejection, Plaintiff immediately
re-submitted the motion for filing that same morning of February 16, 2024. (Reply
p. 2, Pease Suppl. Decl. ¶¶ 7-8.)
 
The Court finds Plaintiff’s inadvertence and neglect is excusable.
Plaintiff provided a copy of the rejection notice indicating its counsel attempted
to file the motion on January 29, 2024. Plaintiff inadvertently attempted to
file the document under a different document name and the efiling was rejected
by the Court, but was still served upon Defendants’ counsel. The Court
exercises its discretion to consider the motion and continues on the merits.
 
C.    
Evidentiary Objections
 
The Court does not rule upon Defendants’ Evidentiary
Objections Nos. 1-10. The Court does not rely upon this evidence and the
objections thereto are immaterial to the Court’s ruling. CCP §437c(q).
 
D.    
Discussion
 
APRL moves for
attorneys’ fees under CCP §1021.5.
 
Section 1021.5 provides the “explicit statutory authority for
court-awarded attorney fees under a private attorney general theory” where the
lawsuit “has resulted in the enforcement of an important right affecting the
public interest regardless of its source – constitutional, statutory or other.”
(Woodland Hills Residents Assn., Inc. v. City Council, (1979) 23 Cal.3d
917, 925, quoting Cal. Code Civ. P. 1021.5 (internal quotations and emphasis
omitted).) Under CCP §1021.5, a plaintiff is entitled to an award of reasonable
attorney fees if four criteria are met: (1) it is the “successful party”; (2)
its lawsuit has enforced an important right affecting the public interest; (3)
a significant benefit has been conferred on the general public or a large class
of persons; and (4) the necessity and financial burden of private enforcement
are such as to make an award of fees appropriate. (CCP § 1021.5.)
 
The moving party bears the burden of establishing each
prerequisite to an award of attorney’s fees under section 1021.5. (Ebbetts
Pass Forest Watch v. California Dept. of Forestry and Fire Protection
(2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 376, 381.) If any one of the elements required for an
award under section 1021.5 is absent, that alone will suffice to deny a fee
request. (Satrap v. Pacific Gas & Elec. Co. (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th
72, 81.) The decision to award fees lies within the trial court's discretion
and will not be disturbed on appeal absent a prejudicial abuse of discretion. (Baggett
v. Gates (1982) 32 Cal.3d 128, 142-43.)
 
The Court does not find that Plaintiff is
entitled to attorneys’ fees because it has not established that it was the
“successful party.” 
 
A plaintiff
is a “successful party” entitled to a catalyst fee award if “(1) the lawsuit
was a catalyst motivating the defendants to provide the primary relief sought;
(2) that the lawsuit had merit and achieved its catalytic effect by threat of
victory, not by dint of nuisance and threat of expense . . . and, (3) that the
plaintiffs reasonably attempted to settle the litigation prior to filing the
lawsuit.” (Tipton Whittingham v. City of Los Angeles (2004) 34 Cal. 4th
604, 608.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff has not shown that its “the lawsuit had merit and achieved its
catalytic effect by threat of victory, not by dint of nuisance and threat of
expense.” This Court issued a final judgment ruling in favor of Defendants. (Final
Judgment, p. 1.) The Court stated that Plaintiff failed
to carry its burden at trial and that Plaintiff lacks standing.
(Final Judgment, p. 1.) The Court further stated that the “individual
Defendants are not proper parties” and “there is no defendant against whom a
judgment can properly be entered.” (Final Judgment, p. 1.) Therefore, Plaintiff
fails to show its lawsuit had merit or that it achieved any “catalytic effect
by threat of victory.” Plaintiff’s cited authority is unpersuasive. In Bjornestad v.
Hulse
(1991) 229 Cal. App. 3d 1568 and Sagaser v. McCarthy (1986) 176
Cal.App.3d 288, 315, the plaintiff’s actions were rendered moot by legislative
action changing the state of law. Here, Plaintiff’s lawsuit was not rendered
moot but was dismissed because of its failure to carry its burden on the
merits, lack of standing and proper defendants. Therefore, Plaintiff has not
established it was the “successful party.” Because the Court does not find that
Plaintiff is the “successful party,” that alone will suffice to deny a fee
request and the Court will not discuss the other elements of section 1021.5. (Satrap
v. Pacific Gas & Elec. Co. (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 72, 81.)
 
While
Defendants’ opposition asserts that sanctions should be imposed against
Plaintiff for bringing its frivolous motion, the Court declines to exercise its
discretion to issue sanctions. In all civil cases, the judge may order a party
or counsel, or both, “to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney's
fees, incurred by another party as a result of actions or tactics, made in bad
faith, that are frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary delay.” (CCP
§ 128.5(a).) Whether an action is frivolous is governed by an objective
standard: any reasonable attorney would agree it is totally and completely
without merit. [Citations.] There must also be a showing of an improper
purpose, i.e., subjective bad faith on the part of the attorney or party to be
sanctioned.” (In re Marriage of Sahafzadeh-Taeb & Taeb (2019) 39
Cal. App. 5th 124, 135.) Defendants have not shown the motion was filed with an
improper purpose. 
 
For
the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s Motion for Attorneys’ Fees is DENIED.
 
III. DISPOSITION
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion for Attorneys’ Fees is DENIED.