 Case Number:  22LBCV01046    Hearing Date:   April 4, 2024    Dept:  S27 The Court was originally scheduled
to hear this motion on 2/29/24.  Prior to
the hearing, the Court issued the following tentative ruling:
The parties entered into a
settlement agreement pursuant to which Defendant would pay Plaintiff $305,000
and, upon completion of all payments, Plaintiff would quitclaim title to the
subject property to Defendant.  Defendant
has made all payments to Plaintiff, but Plaintiff has not quitclaimed title to
the property to Defendant.  Defendant
seeks an order enforcing the settlement pursuant to CCP §664.6; specifically,
Defendant seeks an order requiring the Court to act as excelsior and sign the
quitclaim deed on behalf of Plaintiff.   

 
CCP §664.6 clearly permits the
Court to reduce the parties’ settlement to a legal judgment when one party is
in breach of the settlement agreement.  Specifically,
§664.6(a) provides, in relevant part:
If parties to pending litigation
stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties outside of the presence of the
court or orally before the court, for settlement of the case, or part thereof,
the court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the
settlement.
 
Defendant fails, however, to cite
any specific authority permitting the Court to “act as excelsior” and sign the
quitclaim deed itself on behalf of Plaintiff. 
The Court knows of no such authority. 
Absent such authority, the Court is not inclined to fashion this unique
remedy.  
 
If Defendant submits a proper proposed
judgment reflecting the terms of the parties’ settlement, the Court will process
the judgment.  If Plaintiff continues to
fail to comply with the terms of the settlement, once entered as a judgment,
Defendant may pursue any remedies for violation of the terms of the judgment,
including but not limited to contempt of court. 

 
At the conclusion of the 2/29/24
hearing, the Court continued the hearing to 4/04/24.  To date, however, Defendant has filed nothing
further concerning the motion to enforce. 
The motion is therefore denied at this time.
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   