 Case Number:  23LBCV01502    Hearing Date:   April 4, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Complaint
Plaintiff, Natalie Harris filed
this action against Defendants, David L. Grimmett and Catalina Island Vacation
Rentals, Inc. for damages arising out of injuries sustained when a stool in
Defendants’ vacation rental unit broke. 
Plaintiff’s complaint includes causes of action for negligence, premises
liability, and strict liability.    
 
2.     Demurrer
a.    
Legal
Standard
A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint states a cause of action. 
(Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  When considering
demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Taylor
v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th
1216, 1228.)  In a demurrer proceeding,
the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice.  (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal.App.3d 902, 905.)  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn,
supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
 
b.    
Meet
and Confer
Defendant filed a meet and confer declaration with the demurrer.  The meet and confer declaration is
sufficient, and the Court will rule on the demurrer on its merits.
 
c.    
Analysis
Defendants
demur to the third cause of action in the complaint, for strict liability,
contending Plaintiff has failed to allege facts showing Defendants distributed,
manufactured, or sold the stool on which Plaintiff was sitting when she was
injured.  Defendants rely primarily on
Peterson v. Superior Court (1995) 10 Cal.4th 1185, wherein the Court
held that a hotel proprietor is not strictly liable for injuries sustained by a
defect on the premises.  Specifically,
the plaintiff in Peterson was injured when he slipped on a slippery bathtub.  
 
Plaintiff,
in opposition to the demurrer, cites Fakhoury v. Magner (1972) 25 Cal.App.3d
58, wherein the Court held that a landlord who rents a furnished, as opposed to
unfurnished, apartment is strictly liable for injuries sustained when a tenant
is injured on the furnishings.  Specifically,
the Court held:
We conclude that, under the circumstances of
this case, the doctrine of strict liability does apply to the landlord, not as
lessor of real property, but as lessor of the furniture. It is not unrealistic
to regard the landlord as coming within both categories. Furnished apartments
are considered quite different from those which are unfurnished. They are
frequently advertised separately, and of course for a higher rent. In fact,
rental of furniture is an enterprise of its own, falling into a separate
category in such places as the yellow pages of the telephone directory. There
does not seem to be good reason for holding, as we surely would under existing
case law, that the lessor of furniture who supplies it for an empty apartment
should be held to strict liability, under appropriate circumstances, but
holding the landlord exempt just because he is also the owner and lessor of
real property. The landlord has certain rights in respect of personal property,
which he does not have as lessor of the real property. If the furniture be
wrongfully *64 appropriated, an action in conversion will lie; it is not taxed;
a different scale of depreciation is allowable.
 
Defendants
fail, in reply, to discuss or distinguish Fakhoury.  Fakhoury is directly on point, and therefore the
demurrer is overruled.  Defendants are
ordered to file an answer to the complaint within ten days.  
 

Defendants are ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.