 Case Number:  23LBCV00818    Hearing Date:   April 4, 2024    Dept:  S27 Plaintiff filed this motion to
compel on 2/07/24, setting it for hearing on 4/04/24.  On 3/21/24, Defendant filed timely opposition
to the motion wherein it argues the motion is entirely moot, and also argues
the motion should have never been filed because Defendant offered dates for PMQ
depositions prior to the filing of the motion. 
In reply, Plaintiff argues the motion is not moot because Defendant has
continued to fail to produce a PMQ for several issues, and has also failed to
produce all required documents.  
 
Notably, Plaintiff indicates, at
page 3, lines 11-12, that she is amenable to having the hearing on this motion continued
to 4/10/24, because the parties have agreed that the remaining deposition will
go forward on 4/09/24.  Plaintiff
indicates she tried to continue the hearing using the online system, but was unable
to do so because no hearing date was available.
The Court finds 4/10/24 is too soon
for the continued hearing if the remaining deposition is set to go forward on
4/09/24.  The Court continues the hearing
to Thursday, 4/18/24 at 8:30 a.m. in Department S27.  The Court strongly encourages the parties to
meet and confer to resolve all outstanding issues re: depositions and document
production without the need for further law and motion practice.  
 
If the parties resolve their
dispute, Plaintiff must take the motion off calendar using the online
reservation system.  If the parties are
unable to resolve their dispute, they must file briefs (no more than five pages
each) and declarations, on or before Friday, 4/12/24, detailing the status of
any unresolved issues.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   