 Case Number:  22LBCV01005    Hearing Date:   April 4, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, A.B., an individual (“Plaintiff”), filed this action against
Defendants, Doe 1, an Illinois corporation, Doe 2, a California Corporation,
and Does 3 through 60 for damages arising out of a sexual assault that occurred
in 1989. Plaintiff was assaulted by his basketball coach, OG, who coached
basketball at Doe 2’s property. Plaintiff is alleging causes of action for (1)
negligent hiring, supervision, and retention and (2) negligent supervision of a
minor against all defendants. Plaintiff is alleging a cause of action for
negligence against Does 3 through 60. 
 
Plaintiff’s operative complaint is his Second Amended Complaint, which
he filed on 9/20/23.  
 
2.     Motion
for Summary Judgment 
a.    
Standard on Summary Judgment
Summary judgment is proper “if all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  Where a defendant seeks summary judgment or
adjudication, he must show that either “one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is
a complete defense to that cause of action.” 
(Id. at §437c(o)(2).)  A defendant
may satisfy this burden by showing that the claim “cannot be established”
because of the lack of evidence on some essential element of the claim.  (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31
Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)  Once the
defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a
“triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or defense thereto.”  (Ibid.)  
 
The moving party bears the initial
burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable
issues of material fact.  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment must
show either (1) that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be
established or (2) that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant may discharge this burden by
furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required facts or (2)
discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to establish an
essential element of the plaintiff's case. If a defendant chooses the latter
option he or she must present evidence “and not simply point out that plaintiff
does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence….” Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at 865-66,
[A] defendant may simply show the
plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action “by showing
that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed
evidence.” (Id. at p. 854.)  Thus, rather
than affirmatively disproving or negating an element (e.g., causation), a
defendant moving for summary judgment has the option of presenting evidence
reflecting the plaintiff does not possess evidence to prove that element. “The
defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an
element of the plaintiff's cause of action. The defendant may also present
evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive
discovery to the effect that he has discovered nothing” to support an essential
element of his case. (Aguilar, supra, at p. 855.) Under the latter approach, a
defendant's initial evidentiary showing may “consist of the deposition
testimony of the plaintiff's witnesses, the plaintiff's factually devoid
discovery responses, or admissions by the plaintiff in deposition or in
response to requests for admission that he or she has not discovered anything
that supports an essential element of the cause of action.” (Lona v. Citibank,
N.A., supra, 202 Cal.App.4th at p. 110.) 
In other words, a defendant may show the plaintiff does not possess
evidence to support an element of the cause of action by means of presenting
the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses from which an absence of
evidence may be reasonably inferred. (Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Construction Co.
(1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 64, 83.)
 
Thus, a moving defendant has two
means by which to shift the burden of proof under the summary judgment statute:
“The defendant may rely upon factually insufficient discovery responses by the
plaintiff to show that the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of
the cause of action sued upon. [Citation.] [Or a]lternatively, the defendant
may utilize the tried and true technique of negating (‘disproving’) an
essential element of the plaintiff's cause of action.” (Brantly v. Pisaro
(1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1591, 1598.) 
Leyva v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th
1095, 1103.
 
Until the moving defendant has
discharged its burden of proof, the opposing plaintiff has no burden to come
forward with any evidence. Once the moving defendant has discharged its burden
as to a particular cause of action, however, the plaintiff may defeat the
motion by producing evidence showing that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p)(2).)  On a motion for summary judgment, the moving
party's supporting documents are strictly construed and those of his opponent
liberally construed, and doubts as to the propriety of summary judgment should
be resolved against granting the motion. 
(D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.) 
 
b.         Evidentiary Objections
Defendant filed boilerplate
objections to the entirety of Plaintiff’s declaration in opposition to the
motion and Plaintiff’s attorney’s declaration in opposition to the motion.  The objections are not individually
tailored.  By way of example, Defendant
objects to Plaintiff’s statement that he joined Defendant’s program in 1989,
participated in Defendant’s basketball program, and was 15 years old at the
time on the grounds that, among other things, it lacks foundation and is
hearsay.  These objections are entirely
unfounded and nonsensical.  The Court
will not entertain objections that are not tailored to the evidence
presented.  The objections are overruled.    
 

Lack of Control or
     Special Relationship

Defendant argues it is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law because it did not have control over Plaintiff’s
perpetrator, OG, at the time of the incident, and did not have a special
relationship with Plaintiff at the time of the incident.  Defendant argues this is so because
Defendant’s program was in Long Beach, and the incident at issue occurred in
Valencia.   
 
While it is not entirely clear from
the parties’ papers, it appears Plaintiff and OG did not convene at Defendant’s
facility on the date of the incident.  Defendant’s
fact 9 states that the summer basketball program, which OG coached, had
concluded prior to the incident.  There
are no facts presented by Plaintiff or Defendant, in the separate statement or
otherwise, showing what events preceded the fishing trip, how or where
Plaintiff and OG met to leave on the trip, etc. 
For purposes of this ruling, the Court will assume that Plaintiff and OG
did not convene at Defendant’s property immediately prior to the fishing trip,
but instead that OG and Plaintiff met somewhere else and went on the trip.  
 
Defendant relies on Regents of the
University of California v. Superior Court (2018) 4 Cal.5th 607,
620-621 to support its conclusion that, under the circumstances, Defendant had
no special relationship with Plaintiff pursuant to which Defendant was required
to prevent the incident.  Because Regents
contains a helpful discussion of whether and when a special relationship
develops, the Court will quote the opinion at length.  The Regents Court held (citations omitted):
The Restatement Third of Torts
identifies several special relationships that may support a duty to protect
against foreseeable risks. In addition to the common carrier and innkeeper
relationships previously mentioned, the list includes a business or landowner
with invited guests, a landlord with tenants, a guard with those in custody, an
employer with its employees, and “a school with its students.” (citation) The
Restatement does not exclude colleges from the school-student special
relationship. However, the drafters observe that reasonable care varies in
different school environments, with substantially different supervision being
appropriate in elementary schools as opposed to colleges. (citation.) State
courts have reached different conclusions about whether colleges owe a special
relationship-based duty to their students. (citation.) We have not previously
addressed the question.
Relationships that have been
recognized as “special” share a few common features. Generally, the relationship
has an aspect of dependency in which one party relies to some degree on the
other for protection. (citations.) The Restatement authors observed over 50
years ago that the law has been “working slowly toward a recognition of the
duty to aid or protect in any relation of dependence or of mutual dependence.”
(citation.)
The corollary of dependence in a
special relationship is control. Whereas one party is dependent, the other has
superior control over the means of protection. “[A] typical setting for the
recognition of a special relationship is where ‘the plaintiff is particularly
vulnerable and dependent upon the defendant who, correspondingly, has some
control over the plaintiff's welfare.’ [Citations.]”  One court observed that “the epitome” of such
a special relationship exists between a jailer and prisoner. (citation.) Common
carriers and their passengers present another quintessential example. In Lopez
v. Southern Cal. Rapid Transit Dist. (citation), we held this special
relationship gives common carriers a duty to protect passengers from onboard
violence, noting that passengers are sealed together in a moving vehicle, with
the means of entry and exit under the exclusive control of the driver. “Thus,
passengers have no control over who is admitted on the bus and, if trouble
arises, are wholly dependent upon the bus driver to summon help or provide a
means of escape.” (citation.)
Special relationships also have
defined boundaries. They create a duty of care owed to a limited community, not
the public at large. We have held that police officers are not in a special
relationship with the citizens in their jurisdiction (citation), even when
officers are aware of risks to a specific potential victim (citation). Nor is a
government entity in a special relationship with all citizens who use its
facilities. (citation.) In declining to find a duty of care owed to courthouse
visitors, we observed that a “county, ‘as with all public entities,’ has the
responsibility to ‘exercise reasonable care to protect all of its citizens’
[citation], but does not thereby become liable to each individual for all
foreseeable harm.” (citation.) Because a special relationship is limited to
specific individuals, the defendant's duty is less burdensome and more
justifiable than a broad-ranging duty would be. (citation.)
Finally, although relationships
often have advantages for both participants, many special relationships
especially benefit the party charged with a duty of care. (citation.) Retail
stores or hotels could not successfully operate, for example, without visits
from their customers and guests. 
 
 
The Court finds there are triable
issues of material fact concerning whether Defendant’s relationship with
Plaintiff meets the above test.  The
issue is not whether Defendant owed Plaintiff a special duty solely on the date
of the incident, but whether such duty was owed overall.  If Defendant failed to comply with a duty to
realize OG was a danger to minors (which issue will be discussed below), then
Defendant owed Plaintiff a duty, due to its special relationship with Plaintiff
at the camp, to ensure that Plaintiff never came into contact with OG at
all.  This is so because Plaintiff was
fifteen at the time of his enrollment in the summer basketball camp, paid for
the camp, and solely entrusted his safety to Defendant while participating in
the camp.  
 

Statute of Limitations

Defendant next argues it is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law because CCP §340.1 extended the SOL for
claims arising out of childhood sexual assault, but not for claims arising out
of negligent hiring, training, and supervision and/or negligent supervision of
a minor, both of which arise out of negligence. 

 
If Defendant were correct, then
§340.1(a)(2) would be rendered nonsensical. 
That portion of the statute provides for an extended statute of
limitations for (2) An action for liability against any person or entity who
owed a duty of care to the plaintiff, if a wrongful or negligent act by that
person or entity was a legal cause of the childhood sexual assault that
resulted in the injury to the plaintiff.
 
This argument is therefore
rejected.  
 

Knew or Had Reason to
     Know

The most difficult issue on this
motion is whether Plaintiff can meet the requirements of §340.1(c).  An action against a third party defendant as
defined in CCP §340.1(a)(2) and (3) may not be commenced after the plaintiff's
40th birthday unless “the person or entity knew or had reason to know, or was
otherwise on notice, of any misconduct that creates a risk of childhood sexual
assault by an employee, volunteer, representative, or agent, or the person or
entity failed to take reasonable steps or to implement reasonable safeguards to
avoid acts of childhood sexual assault.” For purposes of subdivision (c),
“providing or requiring counseling is not sufficient, in and of itself, to
constitute a reasonable step or reasonable safeguard.”  
 
Defendant relies heavily on Doe v.
City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 549 to support its
position that Plaintiff cannot establish liability by showing Defendant failed
to take reasonable preventatives steps or implement reasonable safeguards to
avoid acts of future unlawful sexual conduct by the perpetrator.  The Rutter Guide on Statutes of Limitations,
§4:516.1, explains the following in this regard:
The California Supreme Court
construed the knowledge requirement of a prior version of the statute of repose
as requiring the victim “to establish that the nonperpetrator defendant had
actual knowledge, constructive knowledge (as measured by the reason to know
standard), or was otherwise on notice that the perpetrator had engaged in past
unlawful sexual conduct with a minor and, possessed of this knowledge or
notice, failed to take reasonable preventative steps or implement reasonable
safeguards to avoid acts of future unlawful sexual conduct by the perpetrator.”
[ Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 C4th 531, 549, 67 CR3d 330, 343]
Comment: The version of the statute
construed in Doe used the conjunctive “and,” whereas the current statute,
including the 2019 amendment, uses the disjunctive term “or.” It is therefore
unclear whether the limited statute of repose as now set forth in  CCP § 340.1(c) can be overcome in two
different ways—by showing actual or constructive knowledge of “any misconduct”
by an employee, volunteer, representative or agent creating a “risk” of
childhood sexual assault, or by showing the entity, regardless of lack of
knowledge, failed to take reasonable steps or to implement safeguards to avoid
acts of childhood sexual assault.
 
The Court finds the legislature
would not have changed the word “and” to the word “or” when amending the
statute unless it intended the change to have an effect.  Defendant did not, in its moving papers,
attempt to make a showing that it took reasonable steps and implemented
safeguards to avoid acts of childhood sexual assault.  It therefore failed to meet its moving
burden, and the motion on this ground is denied.
 

Causation

Defendant next argues Plaintiff
cannot show Defendant was the legal cause of his injuries.  The Court disagrees.  If Defendant failed to take steps to
safeguard its minor participants from coming into contact with perpetrators of
sexual violence, then the failure to do so was the legal cause of Plaintiff
ever meeting OG in the first place, which ultimately led to him developing a
relationship of trust and confidence, which led to the assault.  This is the nature of childhood sexual
assault, and it is for a jury to decide whether causation is sufficiently
established.
 

Laches

Defendant’s final argument is that
the claims are barred by the doctrine of laches.  The legislature, in enacting the current
version of §340.1, clearly intended to revive these claims, and to set forth a
legislative understanding that children who are assaulted are often not able to
come forward within the prior statute of limitations to present their
claims.  This argument therefore also
fails.  
 

Conclusion

Defendant’s motion for summary
judgment is denied.  Its alternative
motion for summary adjudication merely restates the issues from the summary
judgment motion, and is therefore also denied.
 
3.     Final
Notes
The Court notes that there are no
future non-motion hearing dates on calendar. 
The Court sets a trial setting conference for 6/06/24, to be heard
concurrently with the currently scheduled demurrer.  
 
Additionally, the Court notes that
there are motions to compel further responses on calendar on 8/13/24 and
9/05/24.  The Court continues the 8/13/24
hearing to 9/05/24.  The Court strongly
encourages the parties to work together to resolve the issues presented by way
of the motions without the need for a hearing. 
The Court advises the parties that, if the issues become voluminous, the
Court will consider appointing a discovery referee to assist in resolution of
the issues.  
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   