 Case Number:  22LBCV00049    Hearing Date:   April 4, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     22LBCV00049
On 2/01/22, SEJ Properties, L.P.
filed 22LBCV00049 against Defendants, 1801-1899 Willow, LLC (“Willow”) and Alma
D. Barnes for specific performance and related claims arising out of
Defendants’ alleged refusal to close escrow on Plaintiff’s purchase of a
commercial property.
 
Plaintiff’s original complaint
remains the operative complaint in the action. 
It includes cause of action for specific performance, breach of
contract, breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing,
intentional misrepresentation, negligent misrepresentation, and declaratory
relief.  
 
Additionally, on 11/06/23, Willow
filed a cross-complaint against SEJ for intentional misrepresentation,
fraudulent inducement, recission, breach of contract, and breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing. 

 
2.     22SMCV00217
On 2/16/22, SEJ Properties, L.P.
filed 22SMCV00217 against Defendants, Escrow L.A., Inc. and Sharon L. Sharp for
breach of fiduciary duty and related claims arising out of Defendants’ refusal
to release the funds that were deposited into the escrow account in connection
with the transaction at issue in 22LBCV00049. 
This action includes causes of action for breach of fiduciary duty,
negligence, breach of written escrow instructions, conversion, declaratory
relief, and injunctive relief.  
 
3.     23LBCV00258,
1801-1809 Willow, LLC v. Muselli & Company, Inc.
In this action, Willow has sued its
agent, Muselli & Company, contending it learned of pertinent information
during the transaction but failed to disclose that information to Willow.  The complaint includes causes of action for
professional negligence, breach of contract, and breach of fiduciary duty.  
 
On 5/22/23, Muselli & Company,
Inc., Vincent Cesare Muselli, and Evan Daniel Pozarny (collectively referred to
as “Muselli” in this ruling) filed a cross-complaint in 23LBCV00258 against
Willow for breach of contract and breach of the implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing.  
 
4.     23LBCV01460,
1801-1809 Willow, LLC v. First American Title Ins Co
In this case, Willow alleges First
American improperly contacted SEJ and provided it information it was not
entitled to have.  This case includes
causes of action for professional negligence and breach of fiduciary duty.  
 
5.     Consolidation
On 12/14/23, the Court consolidated
the above actions for all purposes.  
 
6.     Demurrer
a.     Legal
Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to challenge
defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from matters
outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39 Cal.3d
311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no “speaking
demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], § 430.30 [as
to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be taken], and §
430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of action
within].  Specifically, a demurrer may be
brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support the
cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP §
430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for
relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP
§ 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of
determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (CCP § 430.41(a).) The parties are to
meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is
due. (CCP § 430.41(a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve
a declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (CCP § 430.41(a)(3).)
 
b.     Meet
and Confer
SEJ’s attorney declares she sent a
meet and confer letter, and Willow emailed back and said it disagreed with the position
on demurrer.  The Code requires the parties
to meet and confer in person or by telephone. 
The parties failed to do so.  The Court
will continue the hearing, as discussed fully below, to require the parties to
comply with the meet and confer requirement. 
  
 
c.     Guidance
The Court offers the parties the
following guidance in an attempt to facilitate their meet and confer efforts
prior to the continued hearing date.
Most of the issues on demurrer
relate to whether Willow has alleged any facts showing SEJ made an actionable
misrepresentation to Willow.  SEJ
contends Willow has alleged only that it relied on the representations of its
own agent, Muselli, who stated that Willow’s all-cash offer should be accepted
because it would close quickly and avoid complications that commonly arise when
a lender is involved.
 
SEJ has misconstrued the nature of
Willow’s allegations.  Willow alleges it
received multiple offers to purchase the property, one of which was from
SEJ.  ¶9. 
Willow alleges SEJ crossed out all provisions in the offer relating to
financing, and expressly added a paragraph in the offer indicating the offer
was “all cash.”  ¶10.  These are the allegations of misrepresentation.  Willow alleges SEJ provided proof of funds
purporting to show it had the cash on hand. 
¶10.  Willow alleges it accepted
the offer BECAUSE it was all cash, even though it was substantially lower than
some of the offers that required financing. 
¶¶12 and 13.  This is
reliance.  Willow alleges it learned
that, within mere days after the parties agreed to the purchase, SEJ commenced
soliciting financing for the property. 
¶20.  This is knowledge of falsity.  Damage is the fact that Willow declined the
other, higher offers.  
 
The parties must meet and confer
re: fraud, but it appears the above is sufficient, at the pleading stage, to
allege fraud.  
 
With respect to rescission, SEJ
makes two additional arguments – that Willow did not act promptly and that Willow
did not return the sale proceeds, which is a prerequisite to a claim for
recission.  It appears Willow acted
promptly after learning of the facts, as Willow alleges it did not learn of the
facts until discovery in the related actions. 
The other issue is return of consideration.  Willow cites cases from the late 1800s to
support its position that it need not return the funds in order to sue for recission.  The Court asks the parties to locate recent
cases and meet and confer concerning whether return of funds is required in
order to allege consideration.  The Court
will not do the parties’ research for them.
Finally, SEJ argues Willow has not
pled SEJ did anything to deny Willow the benefits of the agreement, such that a
claim for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing can be
alleged.  The parties must meet and
confer concerning whether a well-pled claim for fraud in conjunction with a
breach of contract claim can support a claim for breach of the implied covenant.  The parties must also meet and confer re:
whether a claim for breach of the implied covenant, outside of the insurance
context, is duplicative of a claim for breach of contract, and whether it adds
any meaningful issues to the complaint for determination at trial.  
 
d.     Conclusion
The hearing on the demurrer is
continued to 6/11/24, to be heard concurrently with the currently scheduled
motions for attorneys’ fees.  Counsel are
ordered to meet and confer, in person or over the phone, forthwith.  If the parties are able to resolve their
dispute, either by agreeing that the cross-complaint is sufficiently pled or by
agreeing to amendment of the cross-complaint, they must take the demurrer off
calendar.  If the parties are unable to
resolve their dispute, they must file briefs (no more than five pages) on any
outstanding issues and declarations re: their meet and confer efforts at least
two weeks prior to the continued hearing date. 

 
3.         Case Management Conference
The parties are reminded that there
is a CMC on calendar concurrently with the hearing on the above demurrer.  The Court asks Counsel to make arrangements
to appear remotely at the hearing on the demurrer and the CMC.