  Case Number:  21STCV47583    Hearing Date:   April 4, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
On December 30, 2021, Plaintiff
Courtney Brooks (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against defendants Long Beach
Memorial Medical Center (“Medical Center”), Mundi Attinasi, M.D. (“Dr.
Attinasi”), Amjuli Kumar, M.D. (“Dr. Kumar”), Glenn Levine, M.D. (“Dr. Levine”),
and Does 1 through 20, alleging a cause of action for wrongful death from
professional negligence.  On November 23,
2022, Plaintiff filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”).   
 
Plaintiff alleges that her daughter,
Marlee Sage Butler (“Marlee”) was born on April 8, 2020, with
holoprosencephaly.  Marlee was admitted
to Medical Center on July 8, 2020.  On
July 15, Marlee stopped breathing and became unresponsive and required
intubation.  On July 18, 2020, after two
tests for brain death were performed, Marlee was pronounced dead.  
 
2.     Motion
for New Trial (Against Defendant, LBMMC)
a.    
Procedural History
The Court was originally scheduled
to hear LBMMC’s summary judgment motion on 9/21/23.  The Court continued the hearing to 11/09/23
to permit the parties to cure various defects in the moving and opposing papers.  On 11/09/23, the Court granted the motion,
finding LBMMC met its moving burden to show it was entitled to judgment as a
matter of law, and Plaintiff failed to raise a triable issue of material
fact.  
 
The same day, on 11/09/23, the
Court entered judgment in favor of LBMMC. 
On 11/17/23, LBMMC filed its Notice of Entry of Judgment, which included
proof of service showing LBMMC served Plaintiff with the Notice by email on
11/09/23.  
 
b.    
Analysis
Plaintiff filed her Notice of
Intent to Move for New Trial on 2/02/24. 
She filed her supporting documents on 2/13/24 and 2/15/24.  LBMMC filed timely opposition papers on 2/23/24.  LBMMC correctly notes, in its opposition
papers, that Plaintiff’s motion is untimely pursuant to CCP §657(a), which
requires a party moving for a new trial to file the notice of intent within
fifteen days after the date of mailing of the notice of entry of judgment.  
 
Notably, pursuant to §659a, any
reply to the opposition was due five days after the opposition was filed.  Plaintiff has not filed timely reply
papers.  
 
The Court finds Plaintiff failed to
timely file her notice of intent to move for new trial, and therefore the
motion is denied.  Pursuant to Pelletier
v. Eisenberg (1986) 177 Cal.App.3d 558, 563, the time period is jurisdictional
and the Court has no discretion to entertain the motion.  
 
3.     Motion
for New Trial (Drs. Javahery and Levine)
a.     Initial
Note
Plaintiff filed two separate
motions, one seeking a new trial against Dr. Javahery and the other seeking a
new trial against Dr. Levine.  Drs. Javahery
and Levine each filed their own opposition papers.  The moving and opposition papers are substantially
the same, and the Court will rule on the motions together.
 
c.     Procedural
History
The Court entered summary judgment
in favor of Drs. Javahery and Levine on 1/18/24.  The Court found each defendant met his moving
burden to show he was entitled to judgment as a matter of law.  The Court refused to consider Plaintiff’s
opposition papers due to page limit violations and untimely filing.  The Court noted that, even if it did consider
Plaintiff’s opposition, the opposition failed to raise a triable issue of
material fact because it relied on the purported expert declaration of an R.N.,
and the expert declaration of an M.D. was necessary to defeat the motions.  
 
The Court entered judgment in favor
of Drs. Javahery and Levine on 1/26/24, and they gave notice of the judgment on
2/02/24, which was the same day that Plaintiff filed her notice of intention to
move for new trial.  Her motion is
therefore timely.  
 
d.     Initial
Note
Plaintiff timely filed her notice
of intent to move for new trial on 2/02/24. 
Pursuant to CCP §659a, all supporting papers were due within ten days
after filing the notice of intent. 
Plaintiff, however, filed her exhibits on 2/13/24 and her points and
authorities on 2/15/24; each of these dates is more than ten days after
2/02/24.  §659a permits the ten-day
period to be extended by stipulation or court order, but Plaintiff sought
neither.  Pursuant to Kabran v. Sharp
Memorial Hospital (2017) 2 Cal.5th 330, 347-348, the Court has
discretion to consider late-filed memoranda and exhibits.
 
Notably, §659a requires opposing
papers to be filed ten days after service of the moving party’s
affidavits.  Defendants did not file
their opposition papers until 3/21/24, well after the time to do so had expired
per statute.  See also CRC 3.1600(a),
making clear that the opposition memorandum is also due within ten days after
the moving papers are filed.  
 
Any reply papers were due five days
after the opposition papers.  §659a.  Plaintiff failed to file timely reply papers
after Defendants filed and served their opposition papers.  
 
The Court has read and considered
the untimely moving and opposition papers. 
The Court did not receive reply papers with sufficient time to read and consider
them prior to drafting this ruling, and will not consider late-filed reply
papers.  
 
e.     Analysis

Plaintiff argues a new trial is warranted
per §657(1) – irregularity in proceedings; §657(4) – newly discovered evidence;
and §657(6) – insufficiency of evidence to justify verdict.  
 
i.             
Irregularity in the Proceedings
Plaintiff’s first argument is that
the Court committed irregularity in the proceedings by refusing to consider her
oversized and late-filed briefs in opposition to the motion.  Plaintiff relies on Security Pacific Nat.
Bank v. Bradley (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 89, 94, 97-99 to support her
position.  In Security Pacific, the trial
court noted that the self-represented plaintiff failed to file a separate statement
in opposition to the defendant’s summary judgment motion, and granted the
motion solely on that ground.  The Court of
Appeals reversed, holding that the trial court abused its discretion when it ruled
solely on this procedural ground without giving the plaintiff the opportunity
to cure the defect.  
 
The Court, in connection with
Defendants’ summary judgment motions, however, went on to note, in this case, that
Plaintiff’s submission of an R.N.’s declaration was insufficient to raise a
triable issue of material fact, and therefore also considered the merits of the
opposition.  Thus, any refusal to consider
the procedurally deficient papers did not form the sole basis for the Court’s
grant of summary judgment, and the Court finds it did not commit irregularity
in the proceedings by excluding the improper papers.
 
Plaintiff also argues the Court’s
refusal to consider an R.N.’s expert declaration constituted irregularity in
the proceedings.  Plaintiff proffers
various statements in quotes, but provides no case citation for those
quotes.  The Court cannot view the quotes
in a vacuum.  The Court affirms its prior
finding that an R.N. cannot opine on the standard of care that applies to an
M.D.
 
ii.            
New Evidence
Plaintiff’s second argument is that
she has new evidence that justifies a new trial.  She fails, however, to describe or file any evidence
that was not filed with the original papers or that could not have been filed with
the original papers.  Pursuant to Sherman
v. Kinetic Concepts, Inc. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1152, 1161-1162, a
party moving for a new trial based on new evidence must show there is evidence that
was not known at the time of the original trial (or summary judgment hearing)
and could not have reasonably been known at the time of the original
trial.  Plaintiff failed to make that
showing here, and therefore the Court denies the motion for new trial based on
newly discovered evidence.
 
iii.           
Insufficiency of Evidence to Justify Decision
Plaintiff’s final argument is that
there was insufficient evidence to justify the ruling granting summary
judgment.  Plaintiff reiterates her
arguments from the original hearing, as well as the arguments made above.  The Court affirms its prior finding that
Defendants met their moving burden to show, through competent expert evidence, that
they were entitled to judgment as a matter of law on all claims asserted
against them, and that Plaintiff failed to raise a triable issue of material
fact through competent expert evidence.  The
Court therefore finds Plaintiff failed to show insufficient evidence justifies
a new trial in the case.  
 
4.     Conclusion
Plaintiff’s motions for a new trial
are denied.  
 
LBMMC is ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.
 