..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 21CHCV00917
Plaintiff's Name: Thomas Miller
Defendant's Name: Hyundai Motor America
People-Names: 
Company-Names: Hyundai Motor America, R & A Alexander Investments
Places: California
Dates: November 29, 2017, December 2, 2021, August 1, 2022, September 28, 2023
Events: Purchase of a new 2018 Hyundai Elantra vehicle, filing of a complaint, motion to compel arbitration, motion for reconsideration
Money: 
Intentions: Reconsideration of the order compelling arbitration
Facts: 
Disputes: 
Acts: 
Agreements: Retail installment contract, arbitration clause
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure, California Civil Code
Case Citations: 
Statutes: 
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant
Significant Statements: 
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge has issued a tentative ruling on the motion for reconsideration of the order compelling arbitration. The motion was filed by the plaintiff, Thomas Miller, who is seeking to reconsider the order based on a change in the law regarding vehicle manufacturer arbitration. The defendant, Hyundai Motor America, opposes the motion, arguing that it is untimely and improperly filed.

The judge notes that the motion for reconsideration must be based on new or different facts, circumstances, or law, and that the party moving for reconsideration must show a strong showing of diligence. The judge finds that the motion is untimely and lacks justification, but elects to consider the circumstances given the change in law.

The judge also considers the recent case law on the subject, including the Ford Motor Warranty Cases, which have distinguished the contractual basis of warranty claims. The judge finds that the warranty obligations and claims against the manufacturer arise independently from the sales contract, and that the arbitration clause in the retail installment contract does not apply to the warranty claims.

The judge grants the motion for reconsideration and orders the case removed from arbitration and restored to the civil active list.

Note: This summary is based on the judge's tentative ruling and may not reflect the final decision or outcome of the case.
