  Case Number:  21CHCV00917    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2023    Dept:  F49 Dept.
F-49
Date:
12-12-23
Case
#21CHCV00917
 
RECONSIDERATION
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant, Hyundai Motor America
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Thomas Miller
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
for Reconsideration of the Order Compelling Arbitration and the Stay of the
Action
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
On
November 29, 2017, Plaintiff Thomas Miller “acquired” a new 2018 Hyundai
Elantra vehicle from an unspecified “licensed California dealer of
automobiles.” Plaintiff alleges the vehicle was covered by warranties for five
years/60,000 miles and 10 year/100,000 miles. On an unspecified date, the
vehicle began experiencing unspecified problems. 
 
On
December 2, 2021, Plaintiff filed a complaint for Breach of Implied Warranty of
Merchantability, and Breach of Express Warranty. Hyundai Motor America answered
the complaint on January 5, 2022. 
 
On
August 1, 2022, the court granted Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration. 
 
RULING: Granted.
Plaintiff
Thomas Miller moves for reconsideration of the August 1, 2022, order compelling
arbitration pursuant to the vehicle purchase agreement with vehicle
manufacturer, defendant Hyundai Motors America. The motion comes more than one
year after the order compelling arbitration on grounds of the change in
underlying case law regarding vehicle manufacturer arbitration. Defendant in
opposition contend the motion is both untimely and improperly filed months
after the change in law and on the eve of the scheduled arbitration. Both
parties argue the merits of whether the case still remains subject to
arbitration under the recent change to the law on the subject matter. Plaintiff
in reply challenges the opposition as failing to respond to the authority
supporting reconsideration, and cites to the cases disagreeing with relied upon
case law in support of compelling arbitration.
 
“When an
application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused
in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any
party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of
written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different facts,
circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or court that made
the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior
order. The party making the application shall state by affidavit what
application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions
were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed
to be shown.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd.
(a).)
 
“A motion for reconsideration may
only be brought if the party moving for reconsideration can offer ‘new or
different facts, circumstances, or law which it could not, with reasonable
diligence, have discovered and produced at the time of the prior motion.
(Citations.) A motion for reconsideration will be denied absent a strong
showing of diligence.” (Forrest v. State
Of California Dept. Of Corporations (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 183, 202 disapproved of and overruled on unrelated
grounds in Shalant v. Girardi (2011) 51 Cal.4th 1164, 1172 (footnote 3); New York Times Co. v. Superior Court
(2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206, 212–213; Baldwin
v. Home Sav. of America. (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 1192, 1199; Garcia v. Hejmadi (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th
674, 690.) Disagreement with a ruling is not a new fact that will support the
granting of a motion for reconsideration. (Gilberd
v.  AC Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th
1494, 1500.) A court acts in excess of jurisdiction when it grants a motion to
reconsider that is not based upon “new or different facts, circumstances or
law.” (Id., at p. 1499.)  Motions for reconsideration are restricted to
circumstances where a party offers the Court some fact or circumstance not
previously considered, and some valid reason for not offering it earlier. (Ibid.) 
 
A court acts in excess of jurisdiction when it grants a
motion to reconsider that is not based upon “new or different facts,
circumstances or law.” (Gilberd v. AC
Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1494, 1499.) 
Motions for reconsideration are restricted to circumstances where a
party offers the Court some fact or circumstance not previously considered, and
some valid reason for not offering it earlier. (Id.) 
 
The
motion itself was filed on September 28, 2023—nearly 14 months after August 1,
2022, order granting the motion. The case law relied upon by Plaintiff in
support of the motion published on April 4, 2023, yet Plaintiff still waited almost
six months to even file the subject motion, without any explanation for the
delayed timing. The motion is therefore untimely and without justification.
 
Notwithstanding
the shortcomings of the motion, the court elects to consider the circumstances
given the change in law impacting the many lemon law cases through the
district. “If a court at any time determines that there has been a change of
law that warrants it to reconsider a prior order it entered, it may do so on
its own motion and enter a different order.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1008, subd.
(c).) While the court acknowledges the delays, the court also notes the lack of
any arbitration occurring in the interim, thereby mitigating any potential
basis of prejudice as a result of the subject sua sponte reconsideration of the
arbitration order. 
 
Defendant
Hyundai Motor America (Hyundai) moved to compel arbitration pursuant to the
terms of the retail installment contract executed at the time of the
acquisition of the vehicle. Hyundai sought arbitration on grounds that the
claims arise from alleged defects with the vehicle. The “condition” of the
vehicle is a term within the contract requiring arbitration. Hyundai conceded
it was not a signatory party to the agreement, but insisted it could enforce
the agreement as the party responsible for the warranty provisions under both
the terms of the contract and case authority. Defendant challenged any
arguments for waiver, and contended the clause in no way violates the
unconscionable standards. Plaintiff in opposition presented three main
arguments: waiver, lack of a signatory party to the contract, and lack of
admissible evidence even establishing the existence of the arbitration clause.
Defendant in reply denied any waiver, and reiterated the basis of authority for
a non-signatory beneficiary right to enforce an arbitration agreement. 
 
Recent
case law prompts new consideration of the standard for arbitration. The court therefore
reconsiders the underlying arguments relative to the impacts of the changes to
the law regarding warranty contracts.
 
“A written agreement to submit to arbitration an existing
controversy or a controversy thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and
irrevocable, save upon such grounds as exist for the revocation of any
contract.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.) “On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the
court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy
if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless
it determines that: (a) The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the
petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)
 
The law creates a general presumption in favor of
arbitration. In a motion to
compel arbitration, the moving party must prove by a preponderance of evidence
the existence of the arbitration agreement and that the dispute is covered by
the agreement. The burden then shifts to the resisting party to prove by a
preponderance of evidence a ground for denial (e.g., fraud, unconscionability,
etc.). (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin'l Securities Corp. (1996) 14
Cal.4th 394, 413-414; Hotels Nevada v. L.A. Pacific Ctr., Inc. (2006)
144 Cal.App.4th 754, 758.)
Any challenges to the formation of the
arbitration agreement should be considered before any order sending the parties
to arbitration. The trier of fact weighs all
evidence, including affidavits, declarations, documents, and, if applicable,
oral testimony to determine whether the action goes to arbitration. (Hotels Nevada v. L.A. Pacific Ctr.,
Inc., supra, 144 Cal.App.4th at p. 758.)
 
The retail installment contract itself provides for the
terms of the financing, and includes the referenced arbitration clause. Section
3 of the clause provides in part: “Any claim or dispute, whether in contract,
tort, statute or otherwise…which arises out of or relates to the your…purchase
or condition of this vehicle…shall…be resolved by neutral arbitration.” While
the express warranty language is not part of the agreement, it is undisputed in
the complaint that Plaintiff seeks relief against Defendant for warranty
claims. At a minimum, every vehicle sale comes with an implied warranty of
merchantability barring a disclaimer. (Civ. Code, § 1792.) Thus, even if just
for the breach of implied warranty, the court finds a nexus between the
contractual language and the instant complaint.
 
The agreement itself is only executed by R & A Alexander
Investments. Arbitration agreements may only be generally compelled by parties
to the agreement. The doctrine of equitable estoppel allows for a non-signatory
party to compel arbitration “‘when
the causes of action against the nonsignatory are “intimately founded in and
intertwined” with the underlying contract obligations.’” (JSM Tuscany, LLC v. Superior
Court (2011)
193 Cal.App.4th 1222, 1237; Felisilda v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486,
495-496; Goldman v. KPMG, LLP (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 209, 217-218; Crowley
Maritime Corp. v. Boston Old Colony Ins. Co. (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th
1061, 1070 [Under equitable estoppel, a party cannot avoid participation in
arbitration, where the party received “a direct benefit
under the contract containing an arbitration clause…”]; Boucher v.
Alliance Title Co, Inc. (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 262, 271).)
 
Plaintiff in opposition seeks to
distinguish the number of cases enforcing an arbitration clause by a third
party based on based on the lack of any established third party beneficiary. (Ngo v. BMW of North America,
LLC (9th Cir. 2022) 23 F.4th 942 (“Ngo.”) “A third party beneficiary is
someone who may enforce a contract because the contract is made expressly for
his benefit.” (Jensen v. U-Haul Co. of California (2017) 18
Cal.App.5th 295, 301.) The Ngo case
involved BMW of North America seeking to compel arbitration over a dispute
regarding the financing agreement, and found BMW of North America lacked any
basis to compel arbitration as a third party beneficiary, due to the failure to
establish any third party beneficiary status. (Ngo, supra, at p. 948.)
 
Unlike Ngo, the subject action involves both an equitable estoppel basis
to compel as well as a claim against the warrany(ies) provided by the
manufacture of the vehicle itself—moving defendant Hyundai Motor America. The Ngo court itself in fact distinguished
claims between a credit financing agreement and warranty claims in finding the
distinction between the claims. (Id.
at pp. 948-950.) Again, the complaint itself seeks relief under express and
implied warranties offered and required by the manufacturer of the vehicle. No
other parties are alleged as responsible for adherence to the warranty. The
claims against Hyundai are therefore clearly “intertwined” with the terms of
the contract regarding claims under contract, statute and/or tort. Plaintiff is
equitably estopped from both seeking to enforce the warranties owed by the
manufacturer, while denying the existence of contractual rights connected via
the financing agreement thereby allowing acquisition of the vehicle and
conveyance of warranty rights. The court therefore rejects the extensive
arguments under Ngo on grounds that
equitable estoppel compels arbitration of the warranty claims.
 
A leading case decided in the
Second Appellate District, however, distinguishes the contractual basis of
warranty claims. (Ford Motor
Warranty Cases (Ochoa) (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 1324.) The Ford Motor
Warranty Cases specifically confronted the exact situation regarding a
third party non-signatory manufacturer seeking to compel arbitration(s) via (a)
sales contract(s) of the various purchasing parties for 2015-2016 manufacturing
dated vehicles. The court categorically distinguished Felisilda whereby non-signatory manufacturers could compel
arbitration on grounds of equitable estoppel. The holding, at least in part,
relies on a finding that the warranty obligations, and therefore claims against
the manufacturer arise independently from the sales contract. (Id.
at p. 1324, 133-1334.)
 
The court also found that Ford
Motor Company was precluded from making an argument as a third party
beneficiary, due to the failure to establish any showing within the express
terms of the contract. (Id. at
pp. 1334-1335) Another recent case in the Second
Appellate District on the subject affirms the holding of the Ford Warranty
case. (Montemayor v. Ford Motor Co. (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 958,
971-974.) The Third Appellate District recently
granted a writ of mandate reversing an order compelling arbitration citing the
Second District opinions in support. (Kielar v. Superior Court
(2023) 94 Cal.App.5th 614, 619-621.)


To the extent the argument of Hyundai
depends on a finding of privity of contract among the parties and therefore a
basis of standing for enforcement of the warranties, the court considers the
new standard. As addressed in the plain language of the Song-Beverly Act
statute, along with other California law, purchasers gain vested warranties
with the purchase of new and certain used automobiles. The Ford Motor
Warranty Cases specifically found the arbitration clause within the finance
contracts constitutes a separate and independent consideration from said
legally vested warranties imposed outside the purchase contract context. (Ford Motor Warranty Cases, supra,
89 Cal.App.5th at pp. 1334-1335.) The Ford Motor Warranty Cases court
specifically decoupled inherently owed warranties from contractual principles
governing arbitration. In separating the governing spheres, the court
specifically found warranties shall not be governed by sales contracts. (Id.
at pp. 1335-1336.) The court also specifically held that said contracts lack evidence in support of any independent argument for a
third party beneficiary relationship. (Id. at pp. 1336-1337.) 
 
The California Supreme Court
granted review of the Ford Motor Warranty Cases. “Grant of
review by the Supreme Court of a decision by the Court of Appeal does not
affect the appellate court's certification of the opinion for full or partial
publication under rule 8.1105(b) or rule 8.1110, but any such Court of Appeal
opinion, whether officially published in hard copy or electronically, must be
accompanied by a prominent notation advising that review by the Supreme Court
has been granted. [¶] (2) The Supreme Court may order that an opinion certified
for publication is not to be published or that an opinion not certified is to
be published. The Supreme Court may also order depublication of part of an
opinion at any time after granting review.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 8.1105(e)(1)(B),
(e)(2).) “Pending review and filing of the Supreme Court's
opinion, unless otherwise ordered by the Supreme Court under (3), a published opinion
of a Court
of Appeal in the matter has no binding or precedential effect, and may be cited
for potentially persuasive value only. Any citation to the Court of Appeal
opinion must also note the grant of review and any subsequent action by the
Supreme Court.”
(Cal. Rules of Court, 8.1115(e)(1).) The court agrees that the Montemayor case
will also likely be included under any review of the California Supreme Court
and therefore considers both under the discretionary standard.
 
Notwithstanding the California
Supreme Court review, the court still considers the cases persuasive impacts. “As a practical matter, a superior court ordinarily
will follow an appellate opinion emanating from its own district even though it
is not bound to do so. Superior courts in other appellate districts may pick
and choose between conflicting lines of authority.” (McCallum v. McCallum (1987) 190 Cal.App.3d 308, 315
(footnote 4).) 
 
The court finds the reasoning of Ford
Motor Warranty Cases regarding the legal separation of warranty obligations
from sales contract arbitration clause contract principles sufficiently
dissociates any findings of an inextricably intertwined contractual
relationship on grounds of estoppel between Plaintiff and Hyundai. The motion
otherwise lacks any argument or evidence establishing a third party beneficiary
relationship. For both court policy reasons, and factual agreement with the Ford
Motor Warranty Cases and Montemayor, the court continues to adhere
to the subject authority pending California Supreme Court review. 
 
The motion for reconsideration is therefore Granted.
The court orders the case removed from arbitration, and restores the action to
the civil active list.
 
Plaintiff to give notice.
 