 Case Number:  23CHCV00247    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2023    Dept:  F49 Dept.
F-49
Date:
12-11-23
Case
#: 23CHCV00247
Trial
Date: 8-19-24
 
FURTHER DOCUMENTS
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Paul Markarian
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant, FCA US LLC
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
On
January 30, 2023, plaintiff Paul Markarian filed a complaint for Violations of
Civil Code section 1793.2 and 1794 against FCA US LLC. On March 30, 2023, FCA
US LLC answered the complaint.
 
RULING: Denied.
Plaintiff Paul Markarian moves to compel further responses
to request for production of documents, numbers 116-19, 21, 41 and 56. The
dispute involves the request for general categories of documents to which
Plaintiff alleges unmeritorious objections and non-responsive statements. 
 
Defendant in opposition maintains the
responses were appropriate, and furthermore provided supplemental responses
regarding either full compliance or the inability to comply. Defendant
represents the motion as “harassing” and “unwarranted.” 
 
Plaintiff in reply contends Defendant
continues to engage in a pattern of discovery obstruction via failure to
disclose database information and means of entering search terms to insure
concealment of revealing information. Plaintiff reiterates the right to
discovery, and good cause for further production. 
 
Plaintiff generally describes the
categories of documents as relating to knowledge of the transmission defect,
and the refusal to repurchase the vehicle. The motion itself cites to the
amended responses, while the opposition incorporates “amended supplemental
responses,” whereby Defendant maintains all documents were produced. 
 
Due to the increasing volume of filed Lemon Law cases
in this courtroom and presumably countywide, including the increasing number of
motions to compel further responses, particularly for document production, this
court generally adheres to certain, consistent guidelines for its cases: an
approach allowing discovery into the relevant make and model year for all
impacted systems or parts, without opening the door for a general inquiry into
any and all lemon law claims filed against vehicle manufacturers for all makes
and models, including varying individual and potential system defects. The goal
is to facilitate robust adjudication of the case, without imposing any burden
on defendant to determine the cause of the purported defects, while also
allowing Plaintiff the opportunity to investigate. The court in no way
doctrinally adheres to this policy. The court established this policy based on
established practice standards common among counsel in this field based on
standards established and reviewed by practice and reviewed at least in party
by appellate courts. (Donlen v. Ford Motor Co. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 138, 153-154; Oregel v. American Isuzu Motors, Inc., supra, 90 Cal.App.4th at p. 1104-1105.) No doubt
other courts may take different approaches. The court in no way seeks to invite
comparisons with other courtrooms. The court only notes its reasoning behind
its policy.
 
Under the Song-Beverly Act, “[a] plaintiff pursuing
an action under the Act has the burden to prove that (1) the vehicle had a
nonconformity covered by the express warranty that substantially impaired the
use, value or safety of the vehicle (the nonconformity element); (2) the
vehicle was presented to an authorized representative of the manufacturer of
the vehicle for repair (the presentation element); and (3) the manufacturer or
his representative did not repair the nonconformity after a reasonable number of
repair attempts (the failure to repair element). (Civ.Code, § 1793.2; Ibrahim v. Ford Motor Co.
(1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 878, 886–887, 263 Cal.Rptr. 64.)” (Oregel v. American Isuzu Motors, Inc. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 1094, 1101.)
 
For purposes of the subject motion, the court finds the
responses sufficient and code compliant. The motion lacks support for production
of documentation beyond the requirements for a “lemon law” case. Thus, information
related to the purported defects within the model year should be included in
responses, but the court otherwise finds no basis challenging the sufficiency
of the responses beyond the model and make via the the conclusive arguments and
legal citation. The court declines to follow or even consider unpublished
authority. (Majdipour v. Jaguar Land Rover North America, LLC (D.N.J.,
Oct. 9, 2013, No. 2:12-CV-07849 WHW) 2013 WL 5574626.)
 
“(a) Unpublished opinion
Except as provided in (b), an opinion of a California Court
of Appeal or superior court appellate division that is not certified for
publication or ordered published must not be cited or relied on by a court or a
party in any other action.
(b) Exceptions
An unpublished opinion may be cited or relied on:
(1) When the opinion is relevant under the doctrines of law
of the case, res judicata, or collateral estoppel; or
(2) When the opinion is relevant to a criminal or
disciplinary action because it states reasons for a decision affecting the same
defendant or respondent in another such action.”
 
Cal. Rules of Court, 8.1115
 
The motion only addressed the amended responses apparently before
amended supplemental responses were provided, which include a mix of a
representation regarding the lack of documentation under certain key word
search terms with identified databases, and a promise of further production.
While the reply challenges the prior lack of identification of certain
databases and limited search terms, the court declines to speculate as to the
sufficiency of the terms or now identified databases. The court therefore finds
the identified search terms utilized by Defendant sufficient, again, for
purposes of the subject motion. 
 
As for the to be produced documents, the court declines to
consider any sufficiency of said items. It’s not clear whether documents have
been produced at the time of the hearing. Upon review of the produced documents
or concerns over the databases and utilized search terms, the subject matter may
be better addressed as part of the Person Most Knowledgeable/Person Most
Qualified deposition sessions. Plaintiff may present more specific inquiry into
the sought after areas Plaintiff believes information exists notwithstanding
any objections from Defendant.
 
As for the preemptive challenges to electronic production
raised in the motion, the court also declines to address the section regarding
electronic publication requirements, and directs Plaintiff to Code of Civil
Procedure section 2031.310, subdivisions (e-g). The court also notes the most
recent case for the burdens regarding identification on the categories of
documents in guiding potential further production demands. (Pollock v.
Superior Court of Los Angeles County (2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 1348, 1358.) The
court finds no privilege objections in the supplemental responses, thereby
necessitating the order of a privilege log. 
 
The
motion is therefore denied without prejudice pending further production, the
potential for a more precise statement of any potentially deficient responses,
and substantive, precise challenge regarding the search terms and
representation of non-existent documents. Given the sheer volume of arguments
presented in the motion and separate statement, the court reserves the right to
direct discovery to a referee, particularly if supervision over electronic
production, the PMQ deposition, or other court resource intensive requests, returns
to the court. The court therefore strongly encourages the parties to continue
to meet and confer pursuant to the guidelines followed by this court on lemon
law cases, including cooperation on search terms and careful negotiation for a
protective order to address any potential trade secret privilege objections
raised in production or during the deposition.
 
Sanctions not requested either party.
 
Trial
set for August 9, 2024.
 
Plaintiff
to give notice.
 