 Case Number:  22CHCV01426    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2023    Dept:  F49 Dept.
F-49
Date:
12-11-23
Case
# 22CHCV01426
 
DEMURRER TO THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendants, Doe 1
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff, E.P.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Demurrer
to the First Amended Complaint
·        
3rd
Cause of Action: Negligent Hiring and/or Retention, Negligent Supervision
·        
4th
Cause of Action: Negligent Supervision of a Minor
 
Motion
to Strike
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
From1987-1992,
plaintiff E.P. alleges systematic and regular sexual abuse and molestation by a
defendant identified as Doe 3, while Plaintiff was both a minor and present in
an unspecified facility identified as the “Pacoima Congregation.” Plaintiff
alleges “Pacoima Congregation” was aware of the activities of Doe 3, and failed
to stop or report it.
 
On
December 19, 2022, and July 26, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint and first
amended complaint for Sexual Assault of a Minor, Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress, Negligent Supervision of a Minor, Negligent Hiring and/or
Retention, Negligent Supervision, and Negligence, and Does 1-3. On August 23,
2023, Doe 2, answered. On November 20, 2023, the court entered an order for
dismissal of Doe 3 pursuant to the request of Plaintiff at the November 20,
2023, Case Management Conference.
 
RULING
Demurrer: Overruled
Requests
for Judicial Notice: Denied.
 
The
notice of demurrer challenges the third and fourth causes of action for
Negligent Hiring and/or Retention, Negligent Supervision, and Negligence. The
body of the demurrer also includes a challenge the first and second causes of
action without any actual notice or even identification of the causes of action
for Sexual Assault of a Minor, Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress.
Doe 3 is the only named defendant in the first and second causes of action,
however. Doe 3 was dismissed by the court on November 20, 2023. The causes of
action are now moot. Doe 1 is only named in the third and fourth causes of
action. The court otherwise declines to consider any arguments by Doe 2 as to
cause of action it is not a named party. 
 
Doe
1 submits the subject demurrer on grounds of failure to state facts regarding
the wrongful conduct of Doe 1 for acts allegedly committed by Doe 3. Doe 1 also
challenges the insufficiency of any basis of duty imposed against Doe 1 to
protect Plaintiff from Doe 3. Plaintiff in opposition counters that the argument
relying on Code of Civil Procedure is “outdated and inapplicable” and Plaintiff
properly states a claim under the statute. Plaintiff additionally maintains the
operative complaint otherwise properly pleads all claims, including the basis
of a duty of care. Defendant in a TWO DAY LATE reply emphasizes a lack of facts
establishing liability under the operative statute. The argument relies on
denial of any prior knowledge. 
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see
also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is
to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions of law.”
(Postley v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law . . . .” ’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.)
In applying these standards, the court liberally construes the complaint to
determine whether a cause of action has been stated.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist.
(1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
“A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even
where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be
clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California,
Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616; Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition
Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139 [“[U]nder our liberal pleading rules,
where the complaint contains substantive factual allegations sufficiently
apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for
uncertainty should be overruled or plaintiff given leave to amend.]
 
4th
Cause of Action: Negligent Supervision of a Minor
Defendant
first challenges the instant cause of action on grounds of insufficient facts,
specifically a lack of knowledge by Doe 1 of the alleged conduct of Doe 3,
thereby establishing a basis of liability against the business entity.
Defendant also challenges the lack of facts establishing a special relationship
and therefore a duty of care to protect the minor. Plaintiff in opposition
challenges the argument on grounds that Defendant presents an “outdate and
inapplicable” standard for the subject statutory claim. Plaintiff also
maintains that Defendant improperly relies on extrinsic inference.
 
The court begins with the governing statute, Code of Civil
Procedure section 340.1. The section states in relevant part:
 
“(a) In an action for recovery of damages suffered as a
result of childhood sexual assault, the time for commencement of the action
shall be within 22 years of the date the plaintiff attains the age of majority
or within five years of the date the plaintiff discovers or reasonably should
have discovered that psychological injury or illness occurring after the age of
majority was caused by the sexual assault, whichever period expires later, for
any of the following actions:
(1) An action against any person for committing an act of
childhood sexual assault.
(2) An action for liability against any person or entity who
owed a duty of care to the plaintiff, if a wrongful or negligent act by that
person or entity was a legal cause of the childhood sexual assault that
resulted in the injury to the plaintiff.
(3) An action for liability against any person or entity if
an intentional act by that person or entity was a legal cause of the childhood
sexual assault that resulted in the injury to the plaintiff.
(b)(1) In an action described in subdivision (a), a person
who is sexually assaulted and proves it was as the result of a cover up may
recover up to treble damages against a defendant who is found to have covered
up the sexual assault of a minor, unless prohibited by another law.
(2) For purposes of this subdivision, a “cover up” is a
concerted effort to hide evidence relating to childhood sexual assault.
(c) An action described in paragraph (2) or (3) of
subdivision (a) shall not be commenced on or after the plaintiff's 40th
birthday unless the person or entity knew or had reason to know, or was
otherwise on notice, of any misconduct that creates a risk of childhood sexual
assault by an employee, volunteer, representative, or agent, or the person or
entity failed to take reasonable steps or to implement reasonable safeguards to
avoid acts of childhood sexual assault. For purposes of this subdivision, providing
or requiring counseling is not sufficient, in and of itself, to constitute a
reasonable step or reasonable safeguard. Nothing in this subdivision shall be
construed to constitute a substantive change in negligence law.
...
(f) Every plaintiff 40 years of age or older at the time the
action is filed shall file certificates of merit as specified in subdivision
(g).
...
(r) The changes made to the time period under subdivision
(a) as amended by the act that amended this subdivision in
2019 ¿1 apply to and revive any action commenced on or after the date
of enactment of that act, and to any action filed before the date of enactment,
and still pending on that date, including any action or causes of action that
would have been barred by the laws in effect before the date of enactment.”
 
The court relies on the current
iteration of the statute for purposes of determining the sufficiency of the
complaint. “‘[L]egislative enactments are
generally presumed to operate prospectively and not retroactively unless the
Legislature expresses a different intention’” (Evangelatos v. Superior Court (1988) 44 Cal.3d 1188, 1208; Myers v. Philip Morris
Companies, Inc. (2002) 28 Cal.4th 828, 844 [“[A] statute may be applied retroactively only if it
contains express language of retroactivity or if other sources
provide a clear and unavoidable implication that the Legislature intended
retroactive application”].) “[A]
statute's retroactivity is, in the first instance, a policy determination for
the Legislature and one to which courts defer absent “some constitutional
objection” to retroactivity.” (Myers v. Philip Morris Companies, Inc., supra, 28 Cal.4th at p. 841.) “But it has long been established that a statute that
interferes with antecedent rights will not operate retroactively unless such
retroactivity be ‘the unequivocal and inflexible import of the terms, and the
manifest intention of the legislature.’” (McClung v. Employment Development Dept. (2004) 34
Cal.4th 467, 475.)
 
“‘[T]he
interpretation of a statute is an exercise of the judicial power the
Constitution assigns to the courts.’ (Citation.) When this court ‘finally and
definitively’ interprets a statute, the Legislature does not have the power to
then state that a later amendment merely declared existing law.” (Citation).) [¶] “However, ‘if the
courts have not yet finally and conclusively interpreted a statute and are in
the process of doing so, a declaration of a later Legislature as to what an
earlier Legislature intended is entitled to consideration. [Citation.] But even
then, ‘a legislative declaration of an existing statute's meaning’ is but a
factor for a court to consider and ‘is neither binding nor conclusive in
construing the statute.’ [Citation.]” (Carter v. California Dept. of Veterans Affairs (2006)
38 Cal.4th 914, 922.)
 
The California Supreme Court
previously interpreted legislative extensions of the statute of limitations for
sex crimes applied to Code of Civil Procedure section 340.1. (Quarry v. Doe I (2012)
53 Cal.4th 945.) Consistent with the authority cited above, the court found
that retroactive application of lapsed claims was allowable, when expressly
authorized. (Id. at pp. 955, 957.)
The court provides extensive discussion of the evolution of the amendments,
including the revival of third party claims. The court found the revival of
said lapsed third party claims valid based on express language in the 2002
amendments, rather than the relied upon 1998 and 1999 amendments cited by
Defendants. (Id. at pp. 967-971,
984.) The court also acknowledged the remedial purpose of the statute as
indicated in the legislative comments in support of the extension. (Id. at pp. 988-990; Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531,
546, 545 [Code Civil Procedure section 340.1 a remedial statute to hold
entities responsible for injuries caused to victims].)
 
Doe 1 appears in the action as the identified “religious
non-profit corporation organized and existing under ... the laws of the State
of New York.” [First Amend. Comp., ¶ 6.] The complaint specifically alleges
knowledge of the potential child molesting activities within its congregation,
and chose to intentionally discourage any reports to the police. [First Amend.
Comp., ¶¶ 23-24.] The subject allegations sufficiently meet the pleading
standard for knowledge. (Code Civ. Proc., § 340.1 subd. (c).)
 
As for the age of Plaintiff, the complaint alleges a range
of dates from 1987 to 1992, when Plaintiff was four (4) to six (6) years old to
ages nine (9) to 11. [First Amend. Comp., ¶¶ 25, 31-32.] Plaintiff is over the
age of 40 at the time of the subject action. [First Amend. Comp., ¶ 4.] Again,
the allegations comply with the statutory standard for liability against Doe 1.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 340.1 subd. (c).)
 
As for the basis of special duty,
the court also finds the allegations sufficiently pled. “A defendant cannot be
held liable in negligence for harms it did not cause unless there are
special circumstances — such as a special relationship to the parties — that
give the defendant a special obligation to offer protection or assistance. This
rule reflects a long-standing balance between several competing interests. It
avoids difficult questions about how to measure the legal liability of the
stranger who fails to take affirmative steps to prevent foreseeable harm,
instead leaving the stranger to make his or her own choices about what
assistance to offer. (Citation.) At the same time,
it extends a right of recovery to individuals in relationships involving
dependence or control, and who by virtue of those relationships have reason to
expect the defendant's protection. (Citation.) Where such a special
relationship exists between the defendant and a minor, the obligation to
provide such protection and assistance may include a duty to protect the minor
from third party abuse.” (Brown v. USA Taekwondo (2021) 11 Cal.5th 204,
220.) “A court considers whether the parties
have a special relationship by considering the particular facts and
circumstances of their association with one another.” (Id. at p. 221.)
 
The complaint specifically alleges the placement of
Plaintiff with Doe 3, where the alleged abuse and molestation occurred under
the guise of mandatory bible study courses at the home of Doe 3. [First Amend.
Comp., ¶¶ 25-29.] The establishment of mandatory bible study for minors and
allowance of the placement of said children with Doe 3, allegedly knowing of
the prurient activities, both articulates the basis for an imposition of a
special duty, but also completes the claim for breach, causation and damages.
The demurrer is overruled. 
 
3rd Cause of Action: Negligent Hiring and/or
Retention, Negligent Supervision
Similar to the fourth cause of
action, Defendant challenges the subject claim on grounds that Defendant only
learned of the alleged conduct “after” it occurred, and therefore no retractive
fault lies with Defendant. Plaintiff counters that the abuse was first reported
between the ages of four and six, and continued well after the initial report
during mandated bible study courses. 
 
The complaint in fact alleges the reporting of the conduct
during the alleged period of relevant time. [First Amend. Comp., ¶¶ 31, 67.]
Based on both the special duty of care, and knowledge, the court finds the
operative complaint sufficiently articulates negligent hiring. (Roman
Catholic Bishop v. Superior Court (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1556, 1565-1566.)
The demurrer is overruled.
 
 
Motion to Strike: Denied.
Defendant moves to strike paragraphs 33, 35, 36, 37, 38, 40,
subsection (c), 41, subsection (c), 42, 67, 68, a portion of paragraph 70, and
paragraph 74. Paragraphs 33, 35, 36, 37, 38, 40, 41, and 42, are introductory
paragraphs, while 67, 68, 70 and 74, are all part of the third cause of action.
Defendant moves to strike the factual allegations based on challenges to the
validity and veracity of the claims, including a denial of any duty to report
said conduct to any law enforcement agency/ies. Defendant also presents an
argument regarding clergy-penitent privilege, as well as a series of citations
suggesting the subject allegations seek to “punish” Doe 1 for religious beliefs
in violation of the First Amendment to the United States Constitution.
 
Plaintiff in opposition contends the motion improperly tries
to recharacterize the basis of the complaint as one involving a mandatory
reporting duty, which is not the purpose of the action. Plaintiff also denies
any application of the clergy-penitent privilege or any Constitutional Rights
challenge.
 
Defendant
in a TWO DAY LATE reply challenges the objection to the judicial notice
regarding the characterization of elders as volunteers. Regardless, Defendant
reiterates the lack of any mandatory duty to report, and the clergy-petinent
privileges.
 
To the extent, certain arguments challenging the statutory sufficiency
of the claim duplicate the demurrer, the motion to strike is denied on this
basis. The court otherwise finds no basis for consideration of the mandatory
duty to report or warn the congregation argument. (Conti v. Watchtower Bible
& Tract Society of New York, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 1214, 1226.)
The arguments regarding potentially privileged information or constitutional
challenges are both insufficiently supported and exceed the scope of the
motion. 

The motion to strike is denied.
 
In summary, the demurrer is overruled and the motion to
strike denied. Doe 1 to answer the operative complaint within 10 days of this
order. 
 
Doe 1 to give notice.
 