 Case Number:  23STCV16678    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  76 Plaintiff’s
motion to quash is GRANTED IN PART and DENIED IN PART. the Court will permit Defendant
to seek production of Plaintiff’s medical records back to 1991, without restriction
as to medical conditions for which Plaintiff has received treatment.
Given the
partial success and partial failure, both parties’ requests for sanctions are DENIED.
DISCUSSION
Motion To Quash Medical Records
Subpoena
Plaintiff
moves to quash the deposition subpoena for production of business records issued
by Defendants to custodian of records for Kaiser Permanente SCAL, and requests sanctions.  
(a) If a subpoena
requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, electronically
stored information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made
by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after
giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing
the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those
terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders. In
addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the
person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations
of the right of privacy of the person.


     (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 1987.1(a).)
            There is
no meet and confer requirement set forth in Civ. Proc. Code, § 1987.1.
            Case law has imposed the “good cause” requirement for subpoena
document requests propounded upon non-parties, that is, the propounding party must
articulate specific facts relating to each category of materials sought to justify
production:
In the course of the litigation, Thiem served
a subpoena under section 2020 on Calcor’s custodian of records demanding Calcor,
a nonparty and Thiem’s competitor, to, in effect, produce all materials in its possession
relating to gun mounts, going back nearly 10 years. The subpoena fails to identify
any specific document but merely describes broad categories of documents and other
materials.

     (Calcor Space Facility v. Superior Court (1997)
53 Cal.App.4th 216, 219.)
Although the scope of civil discovery is
broad, it is not limitless. . . .  [Former]
Section 2031, subdivision (l), which applies to document production requests served
on a party, requires a  [*224]  party seeking to compel such production to “set
forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand . . . .” (Italics in original.)
Section 2020, the statute at issue, contains no such specific requirement. However,
since both sections are part of a single statutory scheme, and since it is unlikely
the Legislature intended to place greater burdens on a nonparty than on a party
to the litigation, we read a similar requirement into the latter section. 


(Calcor Space Facility, supra, 53 Cal.App.4th at 223-24.) 

Even were we to ignore that the statements purporting to justify an order compelling
Calcor to produce its documents and other materials are unverified, they still fail.
There is an absence of specific facts
relating to each category of materials sought to be produced; the justifications
offered for the production are mere generalities. The very vice of the
subpoena’s promiscuity is well illustrated by Thiem’s inability to provide focused, fact-specific justifications for its demands.
The noted generality of the subpoena’s definitions, instructions and categories
which merely add up to a demand Calcor produce everything in its possession having
anything to do with gun mounts, precludes Thiem from demonstrating any particular
item or category in fact constitutes or contains matter which “is itself admissible
in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.” (§ 2017, subd. (a).) The purported justification for imposing this great
burden on Calcor necessarily suffers from the same generality as the subpoena itself.


Although appellate courts have frequently stated “fishing expeditions” are permissible
in discovery, there is a limit. As noted in Gonzalez v. Superior Court (1995) 33
Cal. App. 4th 1539 [39 Cal. Rptr. 2d 896], “These rules are applied liberally in
favor of discovery ( Colonial Life & Accident Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1982)
31 Cal. 3d 785, 790), and (contrary to popular belief), fishing expeditions are
permissible in some cases.” (Id. at p. 1546.) However, early in the development
of our discovery law our Supreme Court recognized the limits on such “fishing expeditions.”
In  [*225] Greyhound Corp. v. Superior Court
(1961) 56 Cal. 2d 355 [15 Cal. Rptr. 90, 364 P.2d 266], the seminal case in California
civil discovery, the court gave examples of improper “fishing” WHICH CLEARLY APPLY
HERE: “The method of ‘fishing’ may be, in
a particular case, entirely improper (i.e., insufficient identification of the requested
information to acquaint the other party with the nature of information desired,
attempt to place the burden and cost of supplying information equally available
to both solely upon the adversary, placing more burden upon the adversary than the
value of the information warrants, etc.). Such improper methods of ‘fishing’
may be (and should be) controlled by the trial court under the powers granted to
it by the statute.” ( Id. at pp. 384-385.) The concerns for avoiding undue burdens
on the “adversary” in the litigation expressed in Greyhound apply with even more
weight to a nonparty. 

Had the Greyhound court been able to anticipate the tremendous burdens promiscuous
discovery has placed on litigants and nonparties alike, it might well have taken
a stronger stand against such “fishing.” Greyhound’s optimism in noting the then
new discovery system would be “simple, convenient and inexpensive,” would “expedite
litigation,” and “expedite and facilitate both preparation and trial,” has certainly
proven to have been considerably off the mark. (56 Cal. 2d at p. 376.) 

The issues in this litigation may essentially be reduced [***18]  to the question whether Thiem’s work met Delco’s
specifications. This may be determined without any reference to the contract between
Delco and Calcor or the specifications which are part of that contract. Another
issue which may exist is whether Delco may recover the excess of the cost of the
gun mounts procured from Calcor as damages for “cover” under California Uniform
Commercial Code section 2712. (See Gerwin v. Southeastern Cal. Assn. of Seventh
Day Adventists (1971) 14 Cal. App. 3d 209, 217-218 [92 Cal. Rptr. 111].) If so,
differences in specifications issued to Thiem and to Calcor may be relevant. However,
discovery by Thiem from Delco should normally provide it with this evidence. As
between parties to litigation and nonparties, the burden of discovery should be
placed on the latter only if the former do not possess the material sought to be
discovered. An exception to this may exist where a showing is made the material
obtained from the party is unreliable and may be subject to impeachment by material
in possession of the nonparty. Thiem has not even attempted to demonstrate why it
cannot obtain the needed materials from Delco or why such materials might be unreliable.



(Calcor Space Facility, supra, 53 Cal.App.4th at 224-25 [bold emphasis
and underlining added].)
            Plaintiff’s
separate statement sets forth the objectionable request in the respective subpoena
as follows:
“ALL DOCUMENTS
AND/OR RECORDS THAT REFER, RELATE OR PERTAIN TO THE TREATMENT OF LOURDES LANDAZURI
(SSN: [omitted]), INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO:  
NOTES (HANDWRITTEN
AND TRANSCRIBED), CORRESPONDENCE, INTAKE FORM(S), REPORTS OF ANY KIND, MEDICAL RECORDS
(EXCLUDING GYNECOLOGICAL RECORDS), MEDICAL HISTORY, EXAMS, MENTAL HEALTH RECORDS,
PSYCHOLOGICAL TESTING AND RESULTS, PSYCHOLOGICAL EVALUATIONS OF ANY KIND (E.G.,
PHYSICAL, MENTAL, PSYCHIATRIC, AND/OR PSYCHOLOGICAL TREATMENT) AND THEIR RESULTS,
CLINICAL NOTATIONS, DIAGNOSES/ PROGNOSES, PRESCRIPTIONS, REFERRALS, HOSPITAL VISITS,
APPOINTMENT AND VISIT RECORDS, ANY WRITINGS CONCERNING CARE OR TREATMENT PERTAINING
TO ANY SURGERIES, AND/OR ANY OTHER WRITINGS CONCERNING CARE OR TREATMENT PROVIDED
TO MS. LANDAZURI.  PLEASE PROVIDE RECORDS
FOR ALL PHYSICIANS OR HEALTHCARE WORKERS WHO TREATED MS. LANDAZURI.”
            Plaintiff
asserts her right of privacy in medical records as to the subpoena request.
Privacy is an inalienable right under the California Constitution.
(Citation omitted.) It is well established that the right to privacy extends to medical records (citation omitted), which may contain “matters of great sensitivity
going to the core of the concerns for the privacy of information about an individual.”
(citation omitted.) The privacy interest in psychiatric records is particularly
strong and, in some respects, entitled to more robust protection than other types
of medical records. (Citations omitted.)
(Grafilo v. Soorani (2019) 41
Cal.App.5th 497, 507.)
            In general,
although a plaintiff waives privacy as to information which relates to any physical
or mental condition put in issue by bringing the lawsuit, the plaintiff retains
the privacy interest in unrelated past medical or psychotherapeutic treatment; a
disclosure of the entire lifetime of medical history is unwarranted. (Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d
844, 865.)
The
California Supreme Court has held that a compelling
interest or compelling need is not always required in order to discover
private information—the Court must consider the factors articulated in Hill v.
National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 
7 Cal.4th 1 to determine the seriousness of the privacy invasion
and the strength of the countervailing interest required to overcome that invasion.
(Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531.)
In ruling upon a privacy objection in the contact of discovery,
the party asserting a privacy right must establish a legally protected privacy interest.
(Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th at 552.) The
party asserting a privacy right must also establish an objectively reasonable expectation
of privacy in the given circumstances. (Id.)
Further, the party asserting a privacy right must establish a threatened intrusion
that is serious. (Id.)  The Court need not proceed to the fourth step
of balancing competing interests if all three of the above are not satisfied. (Id. at 555.) If the Court reaches the fourth
step, the Court must balance these competing considerations: The party seeking information
may raise whatever legitimate and important countervailing interests disclosure
serves.  (Id. at 552.) The party seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives
that serve the same interests or protective measures that would diminish the loss
of privacy.  (Id.) Courts may not require the party seeking discovery to demonstrate
a “compelling state interest” or “compelling need[1]“ simply because discovery
of any facially private information is sought. 
(Id. at 556-57.)

            Here,
Plaintiff has demonstrated that she has an objectively reasonable expectation of
privacy in her medical records. The threatened intrusion is serious to some degree,
but Plaintiff has waived her right to privacy to the extent she has placed emotional
distress and physical pain at issue in the operative complaint. (See 1AC,
¶¶ 26, 34, 8 [second], 15 [second], 23 [second], 31 [second], 39, 47, 54],
Plaintiff
argues that the request seeks potentially 64 years’ worth of documents, with no
substantive limits on the type or subject of information, even though Defendant
knows exactly her injuries Plaintiff alleges were caused by the wrongful termination
(emotional distress) and the nature of plaintiff’s disability (right shoulder injury).
            Plaintiff
also argues that the subpoena is not sufficiently particularized, which renders
it invalid. (Civ. Proc. Code, 2020.410.)
            The
factor regarding legitimate and competing countervailing interests served by disclosure
goes to Defendant’s need to show good cause for production of the documents requested.
Defendants state in the opposing separate statement:
Ormco took
the first volume of the deposition of Plaintiff on January 31, 2024.  [Yu Decl., ¶ 4]  Plaintiff testified that the conduct of Ormco
and its employees caused her to suffer feelings of depression, feelings of anxiety,
sleep issues, panic attacks, weight gain, hair loss, headaches, loss of interest
in everyday activities, loss of concentration, and overthinking. [Deposition of
Plaintiff (“Plf. Depo.”), 191:6-192:22, attached as Ex. C to Yu Decl.]  She further testified that some or all of these
symptoms or conditions began the same year that her employment commenced, i.e.,
1991, and continued through the end of her employment, i.e., 2022, if not later.  [Id.]
For example,
Plaintiff testified that she attributes her feelings of depression to the conduct
of Defendants and their employees and that she experienced feelings of depression
every year between 1991 and 2024.  [Plf. Depo.,
101:15-25, 103:24-105:17, 107:10-21, 138:10-139:19]  According to Plaintiff, her feelings of depression
began in 1991 when she “started being harassed by [coworker] Alex [Jimenez].”  [Plf. Depo., 138:10-23]  Plaintiff also testified that she experienced
panic attacks due to the alleged conduct from the mid-to-late 1990s through the
present.  [Plf. Depo., 168:3-170:6, 170:20-171:2,
172:15-24]  And as another example, Plaintiff
claims to have experienced headaches every year from the late 1990s through the
end of her employment.  [Plf. Depo., 184:24-185:11,
185:25-186:5]
As mentioned,
Plaintiff testified that she experienced hair loss due to the alleged conduct of
Defendants.  [Plf. Depo., 178:7-10]  Plaintiff further testified that she obtained
treatment for her hair loss from Dr. Maritza Alvarado at Kaiser Permanentee.  [Plf. Depo., 180:18-181:15]  However, Plaintiff failed to identify Dr. Alvarado
in written discovery responses prior to her deposition.  Id.; see Plaintiff’s Response, First Supplemental
Response, Second Supplemental Response, and Third Supplemental Response to Defendant’s
Form Interrogatories – General, No. 6.4, attached as Ex. D, E, F, G, and H to Yu
Decl.]
Plaintiff
also testified that she experienced sleep issues due to the alleged conduct of Defendants.  [Plf. Depo., 191:6-192:22]  Plaintiff treated with a medical provider on ten
occasions in connection with her sleep issues, and she received medication from
that provider.  [Plf. Depo., 164:13-166:16]  Plaintiff, however, failed to identify the provider
in written discovery responses prior to her deposition.  [Id.; Yu Decl., Ex. D, E, F, G, and H]
Also, one
month after the first volume of Plaintiff’s deposition, Defendant took the second
volume, and Plaintiff backtracked on her prior testimony that she had never sued
anyone other than Defendants, and disclosed for the first time that she had, in
fact, filed a lawsuit against a grocery store during the year prior, i.e., 2022.  [Plf Depo., 578:8-582:14]  Plaintiff testified that she slipped and fell
while at the grocery store and suffered injuries as a result.  [Id.]  She
testified that she treated for the injuries. [Id.]
Given the
foregoing, Defendant has demonstrated a legitimate and countervailing interest served
by disclosure of a more limited time frame of Plaintiff’s medical records. Given
Plaintiff’s failure to disclose certain information in discovery responses, which
came to light during her deposition, Defendant is entitled to discover medical records
without limitation as to medical condition, which also date back to 1991, when Plaintiff
claims her feelings of depression began when she worked for Defendant. 
Because claims
for injuries would be time-barred before that period, Defendant need not discover
Plaintiff’s medical information prior to 1991. Defendant has an interest in tracing
back Plaintiff’s injuries which are not time-barred to sources other than Defendant—such
as her grocery store slip and fall. If Defendant can trace Plaintiff’s injuries
to Defendant’s conduct which falls outside the statute of limitations, then Defendant
likely will not be able to attribute the injuries to other sources prior to 1991.
On the other hand, if Defendant can attribute some or all of Plaintiff’s injuries
to factors which cannot be attributed to Defendant--—such as hair loss due to hormonal
imbalance—then a reasonable period to trace this would be back to 1991.
Plaintiff
does not identify feasible alternative that serve the same interests or protective
measures that would diminish her loss of privacy. 
As such, the
motion to quash is GRANTED IN PART and DENIED IN PART. the Court will permit Defendant
to seek production of Plaintiff’s medical records back to 1991, without restriction
as to medical conditions for which Plaintiff has received treatment.
Given the
partial success and partial failure, both parties’ requests for sanctions are DENIED.    

