  Case Number:  22STCV24567    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  76             Plaintiff client alleges that, as a result of the underlying
litigation, Defendant attorneys took 50 percent of the damages award collected and
all of the statutory fee award, thereby depriving Plaintiff of $1,750.355.48.
            Defendants
move for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication as to the
First Amended Complaint.
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendants
Ebby S. Bakhtiar, P.C. and Ebby S. Bakhtiar’s motion for summary judgment is DENIED.
Defendants’
motion for summary adjudication is DENIED as to Issue No. 1 re: the third cause
of action and GRANTED as to Issue No. 2 re: the first cause of action and Issue
No. 3 re: the second cause of action.
Motion For Summary Judgment
            Because
Defendants have not demonstrated that they are entitled to judgment as to all causes
of action, the motion for summary judgment is DENIED.
            The
Court will proceed to address the motion for summary adjudication below.
Motion For Summary Adjudication
Request For Judicial Notice
            Defendants’
request that the Court take judicial notice of various court records is GRANTED
per Evid. Code, § 452(d).
Discussion
ISSUE ONE:  Bakhtiar is entitled to summary adjudication in
his favor and against Plaintiff on the [third] cause of action for Rescission of
Contract because the claim is time-barred pursuant to Civ. Proc. Code, §340.6. 
            Defendant
asserts the one-year statute of limitations set forth in Civ. Proc. Code, § 340.6,
which provides in pertinent part:
(a) An action against an attorney for a wrongful
act or omission, other than for actual fraud, arising in the performance of professional
services shall be commenced within one year after the plaintiff discovers, or
through the use of reasonable diligence should have discovered, the facts
constituting the wrongful act or omission, or four years from the date of the
wrongful act or omission, whichever occurs first. . . . . Except for
a claim for which the plaintiff is required to establish the plaintiff’s factual
innocence, the time for commencement of legal action shall not exceed four years
except that the period shall be tolled during the time that any of the following
exist:
(1) The plaintiff has not sustained actual injury.
(2) The attorney continues to represent the plaintiff
regarding the specific subject matter in which the alleged wrongful act or omission
occurred.
(3) The attorney willfully conceals the facts
constituting the wrongful act or omission when those facts are known to the attorney,
except that this subdivision shall toll only the four-year limitation.
     (Civ. Proc. Code,
§ 340.6 [bold emphasis added].)
            As
it pertains to the rescission cause of action, the 1AC alleges as in relevant part
follows: 
10. At the time
Ramirez retained Defendants, Defendants did not disclose to Ramirez that they
did not have legal malpractice insurance that covered the representation in the
Underlying Action. At no time during the representation did Defendants disclose
to Ramirez that they did not have legal malpractice insurance that covered the representation
in the Underlying Action.
 
. . .
 
43. The Fee Agreement
is voidable due to misrepresentations and concealments including, but not limited
to, those stated herein, upon which Ramirez relied in connection with entering into
the Fee Agreement and continuing with the Firm’s legal representation. 
 
44. For these
reasons and other statutory violations to be proven, the Fee 
Agreement is voidable
pursuant to Business & Professions Code section 6147. 
 
45. Accordingly,
by statute and equity, Ramirez is entitled to rescission of the Fee Agreement.   
     (1AC, ¶¶ 10, 43 – 45 [bold emphasis added].)
            Although
the 1AC does not identify Rules of Professional Conduct Rule 3-410, the allegation
at ¶ 10 sets forth facts which give rise to the theory that the retainer agreement
is unenforceable. A summary judgment or summary adjudication motion must address
the “issues framed by the pleadings since it is these allegations to which the motion must respond by establishing a
complete defense or otherwise showing there is no factual basis for relief on any theory reasonably contemplated by
the opponent’s pleading.” (Carleton v.
Tortosa (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 745, 753 [bold emphasis and underlining added].)
Previous Rule 3-410, which was in effect
at the time of the underlying representation,[1] provides
at (A) & (B):
 
(A) A member who
knows or should know that he or she does not have professional liability insurance
shall inform a client in writing, at the time of the client’s engagement of the
member, that the member does not have professional liability insurance whenever
it is reasonably foreseeable that the total amount of the member’s legal representation
of the client in the matter will exceed four hours.
 
(B) If a member
does not provide the notice required under paragraph (A) at the time of a client’s
engagement of the member, and the member subsequently knows or should know that
he or she no longer has professional liability insurance during the representation
of the client, the member shall inform the client in writing within thirty days
of the date that the member knows or should know that he or she no longer has professional
liability insurance.
 
     (Previous Rules of
Professional Conduct Rule 3-410(A) & (B)[bold emphasis added].)
A retainer
agreement which fails to disclose the absence of legal malpractice insurance in
violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct Rule 3-410 is unenforceable. (Hance
v. Super Store Industries (2020) 44 Cal.App.5th 676, 684-89.) Here, Defendants
have not submitted evidence which demonstrates that Defendants disclosed in writing
to Plaintiff that Defendants did not have legal malpractice liability insurance.
As such, Defendants have not demonstrated when Plaintiff discovered or should have
through the use or reasonable diligence have discovered, the absence of legal malpractice
insurance. Because Plaintiff alleges that Defendants never disclosed this, the four
year statute of limitations period set forth in Civ. Proc. Code, § 340.6 applies,
and the tolling provision set forth in Civ. Proc. Code, § 340.6(a)(3) for an attorney’s
willful concealment of the absence of legal malpractice insurance applies. 
In this regard, Defendants have not
demonstrated that the statute of limitations set forth in Civ. Proc. Code, § 340.6(a)(3)
expired prior to Plaintiff filing this lawsuit on July 29, 2022. Defendants have
not met their initial burden and the burden does not shift to Plaintiff to demonstrate
that a triable issue of material fact exists.
The motion for summary adjudication
as to Issue No. 1 re: the third cause of action is DENIED.
ISSUE TWO: Bakhtiar is entitled
to summary adjudication in his favor and against Plaintiff on the first cause
of action for Fraud by misrepresentation, because Plaintiff cannot meet her burden
of proving one or more essential elements of a cause of action for Fraud, to wit,
that Bakhtiar made a misrepresentation of fact regarding the retention of the statutory
attorneys’ fees recovered in the underlying action
AND
ISSUE THREE:  Bakhtiar is entitled to summary adjudication in
his favor and against Plaintiff on the second cause of action for Fraudulent Concealment,
because Plaintiff cannot meet her burden of proving one or more essential elements
of a cause of action for Fraudulent Concealment, to wit, that Bakhtiar concealed
the retention of the statutory attorneys’ fees recovered in the underlying action.  
            The
Court addresses Issues Nos. 2 and 3 together.
“To establish a claim for deceit based
on intentional misrepresentation, the plaintiff must prove seven essential elements:
(1) the defendant represented to the plaintiff that an important fact was true;
(2) that representation was false; (3) the defendant knew that the representation
was false when the defendant made it, or the defendant made the representation recklessly
and without regard for its truth; (4) the defendant intended that the plaintiff
rely on the representation; (5) the plaintiff reasonably relied on the representation; (6) the plaintiff was harmed;
and (7) the plaintiff’s reliance on the defendant’s representation was a substantial
factor in causing that harm to the plaintiff. (Citations omitted.)” (Manderville
v. PCG&S Group, Inc. (2007)
146 Cal.App.4th 1486, 1498 [italics omitted].)
[T]he elements of a cause of action for fraud based on concealment are: “
‘(1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant
must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant
must have intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud
the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5)
as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have
sustained damage. [Citation.]’ [Citation.]” (Citation omitted.)
(Kaldenbach v. Mutual of Omaha Life Ins. Co. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 830,
850.)
            An
examination of the allegations in the 1AC reveal that Plaintiff’s underlying theory
is for fraud in the inducement, i.e., the attorney obtained the
client’s consent to take $1,750,355.48 in additional attorney’s fees to which he
was not entitled by “hiding the ball.”
Fraud in the inducement is a subset of the
tort of fraud. It “occurs when ‘ “the promisor knows what he is signing but his
consent is induced by fraud,  [*295]  mutual assent is present and a contract is formed,
which, by reason of the fraud, is voidable.” ‘ “ (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin.
Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 415 [58 Cal. Rptr. 2d 875, 926 P.2d 1061],
quoting Ford v. Shearson Lehman American Express, Inc. (1986) 180 Cal. App. 3d 1011,
1028 [225 Cal. Rptr. 895], italics omitted.)


(Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center
(2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294-95.)
            Plaintiff alleges
in the 1AC as follows:
11. As set forth
in the Fee Agreement, Defendants’ fees were to be the greater of either the
statutory fee award or 50 percent[footnote 1] of the total amount recovered.
 
12. Defendants
successfully prosecuted the Underlying Action and obtained a substantial verdict
for Ramirez.  After post-judgment motions,
the judgment for damages Ramirez’s favor including interest was $3,500,709.48. 
 
13. In addition,
Defendants filed a motion for statutory attorneys’ fees and 
obtained a fee
award of $4,231,532.78 in the Underlying Action. 
 
14. Ultimately,
Defendants recovered approximately $7,912,362.87 in the Underlying Action.
 
15. Contrary to
the terms of the Fee Agreement, Defendants collected both 50 percent
of the damages award and all of the statutory fee award in the Underlying
Action. 
 
16. Accordingly,
out of $7,912,362.87 recovered, Ramirez received $1,750,354, and Defendants took
the balance of $6,162,008.87.  Under the
terms of the Fee Agreement, Ramirez should have received not less than $3,500,709.48.  Accordingly, Ramirez was damaged in the amount
of $1,750,355.48. 
 
[Footnote 1 of
the 1AC provides: “The 50 percent fee includes the 45 percent fee plus a 5 percent
‘incentive’ for recovery over $45,000.” 
            The
pertinent language of the retainer agreement is found at ¶¶ 2 and 3 of Exh. A to
the Bakhtiar Declaration, as follows:
 
2. CONTINGENCY
ATTORNEYS’ FEES: ATTORNEYS, as compensation, shall receive 45% of all gross
monetary and/or non-monetary sums obtained (including, but not limited to, settlements,
awards, and judgments) during the course of ATTORNEYS’ handling of the matter relating
to this Agreement. The foregoing fee will stand, regardless of whether the matter
is settled, arbitrated, mediated, or tried to verdict. CLIENT hereby acknowledges
that she has been informed and made aware that the above fee is not set by law,
but is negotiable between ATTORNEYS and CLIENT.
 
3. STATUTORY ATTORNEYS’
FEES: Additionally, any ATTORNEYS’ fees awarded by any court, pursuant to
statute, contract or otherwise, in connection with the subject matter of this representation,
shall be paid to and belong to ATTORNEYS. Thus, in the event that CLIENT’s monetary
recovery includes an award of ATTORNEYS fees and costs, CLIENT agrees and acknowledges
herein that ATTORNEYS shall be entitled recover the greater of: 1) the
entire ATTORNEYS’ fee and costs award or 2) ATTORNEYS’ contingency percentage
of the “total amount recovered” including awarded ATTORNEYS’ fees and costs
so that, at a minimum, ATTORNEYS’ net contingency fee would be equal to the ATTORNEYS’
contingency percentage of all amounts recovered (including an award of
ATTORNEYS’ fees) as set forth herein above.
. . .
 
5. BONUS: ATTORNEYS
will be entitled to any and all pre- and post-judgment interest and attorneys’ fees
obtained. CLIENT further agrees to pay an additional incentive bonus of 5% to
ATTORNEYS should any settlement or other award be obtained in excess of $45,000.00
as ATTORNEYS and CLIENT hereby agree that any result in excess of that amount will
reflect a particularly good result for the matter at issue.
 
(Retainer Agreement,
¶¶ 2, 3 and 5 [underlining added, bold emphasis in original].) 
            Under
this contractual language, the attorney was entitled to recover the greater of the
entire statutory attorney’s fees, or 50% of the total amount recovered, which would
include attorneys’ fees and costs. Here, the 1AC alleges that that “total amount
recovered” was $7,912,362.87.(1AC, ¶ 14) The 1AC alleges at ¶ 12 that the
total judgment for damages (exclusive of attorney’s fees) was $3,500,709.48. The
initial contingency attorney’s fees calculation of 50% would be $1,750,354.74.
            There was a
statutory fee award of $4,231,532.78. (1AC,¶ 13.) This triggered the alternative
calculation of 50% of “total amount recovered” (which includes the awarded attorney’s
fees). As Plaintiff alleged that total amount recovered was $7,912,362.87, this alternative calculation was $3,956,181.435. As such,
attorney was entitled to recover the greater amount of $4,231.532.78.
However, the attorney would not be entitled to recover both the
contingency fee under ¶ 2 and also the statutory attorney’s fees under ¶ 3, because
the alternative calculation in ¶ 3 took into account the total amounts recovered
(damages plus statutory attorney’s fees). If that alternative calculation was greater
than the statutory attorney’s fees, then the attorney would be entitled to that
higher alternative calculation. But, to then allow the attorney to recover that
higher alternative calculation set forth in ¶ 3 and also the contingency fee in
¶ 2 would be to permit a double recovery of the contingency fee[2]. “The
whole of a contract is to be taken together, so as to give effect to every part,
if reasonably practicable, each clause helping to interpret the other.” (Civil Code
§ 1641.)
            In this regard,
the calculation of contingency attorney’s fees of $1,750,354.74 was disclosed in
the July 31, 2020 letter from Defendants, as was the statutory attorney’s fees of
$4,231,532.78 at footnote 4. (Bakhtiar Decl., Exh. D) As such, the undisputed fact
is that Defendants did disclose that they were taking $5,981,887.52 in total attorney’s
fees, albeit in a somewhat obfuscated manner. As such, the element of misrepresentation
or concealment of a material fact for the fraud and fraudulent concealment causes
of action cannot be established. The burden shifts to Plaintiff to demonstrate a
triable issue of material fact in this regard. 
            Plaintiff’s
evidence goes to her not being to understand what the attorney’s fee award meant
because it was not explained to her. However, this does not raise a triable issue
as to whether the full recovery of attorney’s fees was misrepresented to or concealed
from her, given footnote 4 of the July 31, 2020 letter.
            As
such, the motion for summary adjudication as to Issue No. 2 re: the first cause
of action and Issue No. 3 re: the second cause of action is GRANTED.
            Plaintiff’s
remedy, if any, lies in rescission of the retainer agreement and invalidation of
the contingency fee provision, which would return to the amount Plaintiff seeks
to recover, leaving Defendant with the statutory attorney’s fee award as compensation
for services rendered.


