 Case Number:  23AHCV02060    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      April 30, 2024                                    TRIAL DATE: No date set.
                                                           
CASE:                         ANTONINA VALLE v. MIDDLERIDGE
CONCEPTS INC., et al.  
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV02060
 
 
 
MOTIONS
TO COMPEL DISCOVERY
 
MOTION
TO DEEM REQUESTS FOR ADMISSIONS ADMITTED

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Antonina Valle
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Defendant
Middleridge Concepts, Inc. dba Bryant Heating and Air Conditioning
 
SERVICE:                              Filed and served January 8, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
            Plaintiff moves for an
order compelling Defendant Middleridge Concepts, Inc. dba Bryant Heating
and Air Conditioning to provide
responses to form interrogatories, special interrogatories, requests for production
of documents, and an order deeming the truth of the matters of the requests for
admissions admitted.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a personal injury premises
liability case. Plaintiff alleges that there was an open basement trapdoor in
an unsafe condition for an extended time or was an unsafe and dangerous
condition at the subject premises, which caused injuries to Plaintiff. 
 
            Plaintiff filed a complaint on September
6, 2023, alleging general negligence and premises liability.
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Plaintiff’s
motions to compel responses to form interrogatories, special interrogatories,
requests for production of documents, and have admissions deemed admitted are
GRANTED.
 
            Plaintiff’s
requests for sanctions are GRANTED in the amount of $300 per motion.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely
response, the party propounding the interrogatories may move for an order
compelling a response to the interrogatories. (Code Civ. Proc. section
2030.290, subd. (b).) The same applies to a party that fails to respond to a
request for document production. (Code Civ. Proc. section 2031.300, subd. (b).)
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.280, subdivision (b), provides that
if a party fails to respond to a request for admission, “[t]he requesting party
may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of
any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted”.
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiff provides that on October 10, 2023, the subject discovery was propounded
on Defendant Middleridge Concepts. (Villaneda Decls. ¶ 3, Exhs. A.) Plaintiff’s counsel made numerous attempts
to meet and confer to obtain the responses, but no responses were received.
(Id. at ¶¶4-7, Exhs. B-D.)
            
            In
opposition, Defendant has now provided responses, but as both parties point
out, they are unverified. 
 
Where a verification is required,
an unverified response is ineffective; it is the equivalent of no response at
all. (See Appleton v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 632, 635-636;
Allen-Pacific, Ltd. v. Superior Court (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 1546,
1550-1551 (disapproved on other grounds in Wilcox v. Birtwhistle (1999)
21 Cal.4th 973, 983, fn.12.) Accordingly, Defendant’s responses are ineffective
and deemed no response at all.
 
            As
Plaintiff served the subject discovery and no verified responses were provided,
the motions are GRANTED. 
 
            Plaintiff
also requests sanctions in the amount of $300 per motion against Defendant
Middleridge Concepts and its attorney of record. (Villaneda Decls. ¶ 9; Notices of Motion.) Code of
Civil Procedure sections 2030.290 and 2031.300,
subdivisions (c), provides a court shall impose sanctions against a
party who successfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. 
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 2033.280, subdivision (c), provides, in part: “It is mandatory
that the court impose a monetary . . . on the party or attorney, or both, whose
failure to serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this
motion.”
 
            While there
was substitution of counsel recently and prior counsel had some health
concerns, verified responses have still not been provided. Accordingly,
sanctions are warranted, and the Court finds the requested amount of $300 per
motion to be reasonable.  
 
 
CONCLUSION
 
             If at the time of the hearing verified responses
were not served then Plaintiff’s motions to compel responses to form
interrogatories, special interrogatories, requests for production of documents,
and have admissions deemed admitted are GRANTED.
 
            Plaintiff’s
requests for sanctions are GRANTED in the amount of $300 per motion for a total
of $1200.
 
            Moving
Party to give notice. 
 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   April 30, 2024                                   ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court
indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
