  Case Number:  22AHCV01275    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:     April
30, 2024                                     TRIAL DATE: June 4, 2024 
                                                           
CASE:                         GREGORIO SALAZAR
MONTES aka GREGORIO MONTES and EDUARDO SALAZAR  v. SIERRA MONROVIA CDJR, LLC dba SIERRA
CHRYSLER DODGE JEEP RAM OF MONROVIA, FCA US LLC, and DOES 1 through 10,
inclusive.  
 
CASE NO.:                 22AHCV01275
 
 
 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant FCA US LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:  Plaintiffs Gregorio Salazar Montes aka
Gregorio Montes and Eduardo Salazar
 
SERVICE:                             Filed January
24, 2024
 
OPPOSITION:                     Filed April 16, 2024
 
REPLY:                                 Filed April 25,
2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
            Defendant FCA US LLC moves for summary judgment. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This is a lemon law action. Plaintiffs
Gregorio Salazar Montes aka Gregory Montes and Eduardo Salazar (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) filed this action against Defendants Sierra Monrovia CDJR, LLC dba
Sierra Chrysler Dodge Jeep Ram of Monrovia, FCA US LLC (“FCA”), and Does 1
through 10, inclusive, asserting causes of action for (1) violation of
Song-Beverly Act – breach of express warranty, and (2) negligent repair.  
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is DENIED.
 
REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            No requests
for judicial notice were filed. 
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
            The Court rules on FCA’s objections (filed April 25, 2024) to the
declaration of Armando Lopez (Plaintiffs’ counsel) as follows. 
 
            Objection Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5:
OVERRULED. 
 
            Objection Nos. 6, 7, and 8:
SUSTAINED. 
            
LEGAL STANDARD
 
“The purpose of the law of summary
judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” 
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843.) “A party
may move for summary judgement in an action or proceeding if it is contended
that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or
proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473c, subd. (a)(1).) “The motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all the
papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact
and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 473c, subd. (c).) 
 
A three-step analysis is employed in
ruling on motions for summary judgment. First, the court identifies the issues
framed by the pleadings. Next, the court determines, when the moving party is
the defendant, whether it has produced evidence showing one or more of the
elements of the cause of action cannot be established or there is a complete
defense to that cause of action. If the defendant does so, the burden shifts to
the plaintiff to show the existence of a triable issue of material fact as to
that cause of action or defense. (Kline v. Turner (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th
1369, 1373.) The court must “view the evidence in the light most
favorable to the opposing party and accept all inferences reasonably drawn
therefrom.”  (Ibid.; see also Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal. 4th 384, 389 [Courts “liberally
construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and
resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”].)  
 
“A defendant moving for summary
judgment must show that one or more elements of the plaintiff's cause of action
cannot be established or that there is a complete defense. The defendant can
satisfy its burden by presenting evidence that negates an element of the cause
of action or evidence that the plaintiff does not possess and cannot
reasonably expect to obtain evidence needed to establish an essential element.
(Veera v. Banana Republic, LLC, (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 907, 914.) 
 
DISCUSSION
            “‘The
pleadings delimit the issues to be considered on a motion for summary judgment.
[Citation.]’ [Citation.] Thus, a ‘defendant moving for summary judgment need
address only the issues raised by the complaint; the plaintiff cannot bring up
new, unpleaded issues in his or her opposing papers.’ [Citation.]” (Laabs
v. City of Victorville (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1253].) 
            
            Here,
the Complaint alleges the following. “On March 2, 2020, Plaintiffs entered into
a warranty contract with FCA US LLC regarding a 2018 Jeep Wrangler Unlimited,
VIN: 1C4HJWDG7JL938457, (‘the Subject Vehicle’).” (Compl., ¶ 15.) Defects and
nonconformities to warranty manifested themselves within the applicable express
warranty period, including but not limited to electrical, engine, and brakes.
(Compl., ¶ 16.) The nonconformities substantially impair the use, value, and/or
safety of the Subject Vehicle. (Compl., ¶ 17.) Plaintiffs delivered the Subject
Vehicle to an authorized FCA repair facility to repair the nonconformities.
(Compl., ¶ 18.) FCA could not conform the Subject Vehicle to the applicable
express warranty after a reasonable number of repair attempts. (Compl., ¶ 19.)
            
            FCA’s sole argument in
the instant motion for summary judgment is that Plaintiff’s first cause of
action for violation of the Song-Beverly Act – breach of express warranty of
Action is barred because Plaintiffs purchased a “used” vehicle, which, according
to the holding in Rodriguez v. FCA US LLC (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 209
(rev. granted 295 Cal.Rptr.3d 351) (“Rodriguez”), is not considered a
“new motor vehicle” under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act (the “Act” or
“Song-Beverly Act”).
 
            Plaintiffs do not deny
that when they bought their vehicle, it had 18,615 miles. (See Plaintiffs’
Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts, filed April 16, 2024, ¶
2, left column [arguing that there is no evidence to support that fact, but the
document FCA has cited in the separate statement states that the odometer read
18,815 at purchase. Plaintiffs have not disputed that fact].)
 
            In opposition,
Plaintiffs argue that Jensen v. BMW of North America, Inc. (1995) 35
Cal.App.4th 112 (“Jensen”) is the sole binding authority directly
addressing the definition of “new motor vehicle” in the Song-Beverly Act as
applying to used cars sold with a still-pending warranty. Plaintiffs insist
that Rodriguez is a non-binding case with no precedential effect. 
 
            Although the California
Supreme Court has granted review of Rodriguez, the Supreme Court has
stated that the case “may be cited, not only for its persuasive value, but also
for the limited purpose of establishing the existence of a conflict in
authority that would in turn allow trial courts to exercise discretion
under [Auto Equity Sales, Inc. v. Superior Court (1962) 57 Cal.2d 450,
456], to choose between sides of any such conflict.” (Rodriguez v.
FCA US (Cal. 2022) 295 Cal.Rptr.3d 351; Cal. Rules of Court, rule
8.1115(e)(3) [emphasis added].) 
 
            Therefore, to the extent
there is a conflict between Jensen and Rodriguez, the Court has
the discretion to choose which side to follow per the Supreme Court.  
 
“‘The Song–Beverly Act is a
remedial statute designed to protect consumers who have purchased products
covered by an express warranty. [Citation.]’” (Martinez v. Kia Motors
America, Inc. (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 187, 191 (“Martinez”).)
 
Civil Code “[s]ection 1793.2
[“Section 1793.2”] incorporates several aspects of the Act’s comprehensive
regulation of express warranties for consumer goods.” (National R.V., Inc.
v. Foreman (1995) 34 Cal.App.4th 1072, 1077 (“National”).)
 
Where manufacturers give express
warranties under the Act, Section 1793.2 “requires [those] manufacturers … to
arrange for sufficient service and repair facilities to carry out the terms of
warranties § 1793.2, subd. (a)); it sets a time limit for the repair of
consumer goods (§ 1793.2, subd. (b)); it delineates rules for delivering
nonconforming goods for service and repair (§ 1793.2, subd. (c)); and it
requires a manufacturer to replace the consumer good or reimburse the buyer if
the manufacturer or its representative is unable to repair the consumer good
after a reasonable number of attempts (§ 1793.2, subd. (d)).” (National,
supra, 34 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1077-1078.)
 
“Section 1793.2, subdivision
(d)—the replace-or-refund provision of the Act—consists of two parts or
paragraphs, one for consumer goods in general § 1793.2, subd. (d)(1)) and one
strictly for new motor vehicles (§ 1793.2, subd. (d)(2)).” (National, supra,
34 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1078-1079 [footnote omitted].) 
 
“[S]ubdivision (d)(2), differs from
section 1793.2, subdivision (d)(1), in that it gives the new motor vehicle
consumer the right to elect restitution in lieu of replacement, provides
specific procedures for the motor vehicle manufacturer to follow in the case of
replacement (subparagraph (A)) and in the case of restitution (subparagraph
(B)), and sets forth rules for offsetting the amount attributed to the
consumer’s use of the motor vehicle in the case of both replacement and
restitution (subparagraph (C)). These ‘Lemon Law’ provisions clearly provide
greater consumer protections to those who purchase new motor vehicles than are
afforded under the general provisions of the Act to those who purchase other
consumer goods under warranty.” (National, supra, 34 Cal.App.4th
at pp. 1078-1079 [footnote omitted].)
 
The issue here is whether
Plaintiff’s Vehicle is a “new motor vehicle” as that term is defined under
Section 1793.22, subdivision (e)(2) (“Section 1793.22(e)(2)”). 
 
“‘[The] fundamental task in interpreting a statute is to
determine the Legislature’s intent so as to effectuate the law’s purpose.’
[Citation.]” (Ailanto Properties, Inc. v. City of Half Moon Bay (2006)
142 Cal.App.4th 572, 582 (“Ailanto”).) “[T]he process of determining
legislative intent is one that may involve up to three steps.” (Ibid.) 
 
The court starts by looking at the statutory language,
and if it is clear, the court “‘must generally follow its plain meaning unless
a literal interpretation would result in absurd consequences the Legislature
did not intend.’ [Citation.]” (Ailanto, supra, 142 Cal.App.4th at
p. 582; People v. Valencia (2017) 3 Cal.5th 347, 357 [“We have long
recognized that the language used in a statute or constitutional provision
should be given its ordinary meaning, and ‘[i]f the language is clear and
unambiguous there is no need for construction, nor is it necessary to resort to
indicia of the intent of the Legislature (in the case of a statute) or of the
voters (in the case of a provision adopted by the voters).’ [Citation.] To that
end, we generally must ‘accord[ ] significance, if possible, to every word,
phrase and sentence in pursuance of the legislative purpose,’ and have warned
that ‘[a] construction making some words surplusage is to be avoided.’
[Citation.]”].) 
 
“When the plain language of the statute does not resolve
the interpretive question, we proceed to the second step of our inquiry.” (Ailanto,
supra, 142 Cal.App.4th at p. 582.) 
 
“At [the second] stage, we ‘may turn to rules or maxims
of construction “which serve as aids in the sense that they express familiar
insights about conventional language usage.”’ [Citations.] In addition, ‘[i]f
the statutory language permits more than one reasonable interpretation, courts
may consider other aids, such as the statute’s purpose, legislative history,
and public policy. [Citations.]’ [Citation.]” (Ailanto, supra,
142 Cal.App.4th at pp. 582-583.)
 
If the statute's meaning is still unclear, then in the
third and final step, the court would apply “‘reason, practicality, and common
sense to the language at hand.’ [Citation.]” (Ailanto, supra, 142
Cal.App.4th at p. 583.) “‘The words of the statute should be interpreted ‘to
make them workable and reasonable.’ [Citation.] [The court would] also consider
the consequences that will flow from a particular statutory interpretation.” (Id.
at p. 583.)
 
1.    
Plain Meaning of the
Phrase “Other
Motor Vehicle Sold With a Manufacturer’s New Car Warranty”
 
a.    
This Court’s
Interpretation of the Phrase 
 
Section 1793.22(e)(2), the statute
in question, states:
 
‘New motor vehicle’
means a new motor vehicle that is bought or used primarily for personal,
family, or household purposes. ‘New motor vehicle’ also means a new motor
vehicle with a gross vehicle weight under 10,000 pounds that is bought or used
primarily for business purposes by a person, including a partnership, limited
liability company, corporation, association, or any other legal entity, to
which not more than five motor vehicles are registered in this state. ‘New
motor vehicle’ includes the chassis, chassis cab, and that portion of a
motor home devoted to its propulsion, but does not include any portion
designed, used, or maintained primarily for human habitation, a dealer-owned
vehicle and a ‘demonstrator’ or other motor vehicle sold with a
manufacturer’s new car warranty but does not include a motorcycle or a
motor vehicle which is not registered under the Vehicle Code because it is to
be operated or used exclusively off the highways. A demonstrator is a
vehicle assigned by a dealer for the purpose of demonstrating qualities and
characteristics common to vehicles of the same or similar model and type.
 
(Emphasis added.) 
 
The parties dispute whether the
underlined portion includes “used cars” sold with a “remaining balance” on a
manufacturer’s new car warranty.  
 
            As outlined
above, courts start statutory interpretation by looking at the language of the bolded language above. If
that language is clear, the Court can follow the plain meaning of that language
unless a literal interpretation would result in absurd consequences. 
 
Here, the use of the word “other” means that the words
that come after that word (i.e., “motor vehicles sold with a manufacturer’s new
car warranty”) represent a catchall category that encompasses dealer-owned and
demonstrator motor vehicles. Otherwise, the word “other” would be unnecessary.
To illustrate this catchall interpretation, the Court can remove the word
“other” from Section 1793.22(e)(2), allowing the relevant portion to read: “‘New motor vehicle’
includes … a dealer-owned vehicle and a ‘demonstrator’ or motor vehicle sold
with a manufacturer’s new car warranty ….” When the word “other” is excluded,
the sentence appears to list three unrelated things (i.e., a dealer-owned
vehicle, demonstrator, or motor vehicle sold with a manufacturer’s new car
warranty). However, as stated above, the Court must avoid an interpretation
that makes words surplusage. Here, the only way to give the word “other”
meaning under Section 1793.22(e)(2), is to interpret the phrase “motor vehicle sold with a
manufacturer’s new car warranty …” as a catchall category that includes
dealer-owned vehicles and demonstrators. 
 
Therefore, according to the plain meaning of the language
of Section 1793.22(e)(2), the phrase “other motor vehicle sold with a
manufacturer’s new car warranty …” means a motor vehicle that is like a
dealer-owned vehicle and a demonstrator, which are encompassed within a group
of motor vehicles sold with a manufacturer’s new car warranty. 
 
However, the catchall
interpretation still does not answer the question at issue: whether the phrase
“other motor vehicle sold with a manufacturer’s new car warranty …” includes used
cars that were sold with a remaining balance on the manufacturer’s
new car warranty. 
 
“[S]tatutory language cannot be read in isolation; like
all language, statutory language takes its meaning from the context in which it
appears.” (Monterey Peninsula Water Management Dist. v. Public Utilities
Com. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 693, 699.)
 
Here, as stated above, Civil Code
section 1793.2, subdivision (d)(2), which is part of the replace-or-refund
provision of the Song-Beverly Act, strictly concerns “new motor vehicles.” 
 
            The opening
paragraph of Civil Code section 1793.2 reveals that that section only concerns
manufacturers of “consumer goods.” (See Civ. Code, § 1791, subd. (a) [“Every
manufacturer of consumer goods sold in this state and for which the
manufacturer has made an express warranty shall … [for example, maintain in
California sufficient service and repair facilities]” (emphasis added)].) 
 
            The
Song-Beverly Act defines “consumer goods” as all new products except assistive
devices. (See Civ. Code, § 1791, subd. (a) [“‘Consumer goods’ means any new
product or part thereof that is used, bought, or leased for use primarily for
personal, family, or household purposes, except for clothing and consumables. ‘Consumer
goods’ shall include new and used assistive devices sold at retail].) 
 
The Act defines a manufacturer as
“any individual, partnership, corporation, association, or other legal
relationship that manufactures, assembles, or produces consumer goods.”
(Civ. Code, § 1791, subd. (j) [emphasis added].)
 
            The Act
consistently distinguishes between “new” and “used” motor vehicles and “new”
and “used” consumer goods. (Cf. Civ. Code, §§ 1793.23, subd. (h) [defining a
“dealer” as a person engaged in the business of selling, offering for sale, or
negotiating the retail sale of a “used motor vehicle,” among other things];
subd. (a)(2) [stating that the Legislature finds and declares that “used and
irreparable motor vehicles” are being resold in the marketplace, and, thereby,
distinguishing those types of vehicles from “new motor vehicles”]; 1795.5
[stating “[n]otwithstanding the provisions of subdivision (a) of Section 1791
defining consumer goods to mean ‘new’ goods, the obligation of a distributor or
retail seller of used consumer goods in a sale in which an express warranty is
given shall be the same as that imposed on manufacturers under this chapter except
[that] …,” among other things, “the provisions of Section 1793.5 [which makes
manufacturers liable to distributors and retailers for failing to have repair
and service facilities] shall not apply to the sale of used consumer goods
sold in this state” (subd. (b) [emphasis added]), thereby distinguishing new
and used consumer goods].) 
 
            Therefore, FCA’s
interpretation of Section 1793.22(e)(2), that the definition of “new motor
vehicle” does not include used cars sold with a balance remaining on a
manufacturer’s new car warranty, is reasonable. 
 
            However,
Plaintiffs’ interpretation is also reasonable for the following reasons. 
 
Civil Code section 1795.51 of the Song-Beverly Act refers
to “a used vehicle” as that phrase is defined under “Vehicle Code section 665.”
(See Civ. Code, § 1795.51, subd. (a) [“No buy-here-pay-here dealer, as
that term is defined in Section 241 of the Vehicle Code, shall sell or lease a
used vehicle, as defined in Section 665 of the Vehicle Code, at retail
price without giving the buyer or lessee a written warranty that shall have a
minimum duration of at least 30 days from the date of delivery or when the odometer
has registered 1,000 miles from what is shown on the contract, whichever occurs
first” (emphasis added)].)
 
            “When the Legislature uses the same language in a related statute, we
presume the Legislature intended the language to have the same meaning.” (Garibotti
v. Hinkle (2015) 243 Cal.App.4th 470, 478; see also In re Do Kyung K.
(2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 583, 589 [“‘To understand the intended meaning of a
statutory phrase, we may consider use of the same or similar language in other
statutes, because similar words or phrases in statutes in pari materia [that
is, dealing with the same subject matter] ordinarily will be given the same
interpretation.’ [Citations]”].)
 
            Here, Vehicle Code section 665’s
definition of a “used vehicle” includes “demonstrators.” (Veh. Code, §
665 [defining a “used vehicle”
as “a vehicle that has been sold, or has been registered with the department,
or has been sold and operated upon the highways, or has been registered with
the appropriate agency of authority, of any other state, District of Columbia,
territory or possession of the United States or foreign state, province or
country, or unregistered vehicles regularly used or operated as
demonstrators in the sales work of a dealer or unregistered vehicles
regularly used or operated by a manufacturer in the sales or distribution work
of such manufacturer. The word ‘sold’ does not include or extend to: (1) any
sale made by a manufacturer or a distributor to a dealer …” (emphasis added)].)

 
            Therefore, if the definition of
“used vehicle” under the Song-Beverly Act is the same under Vehicle Code
section 665, and, therefore, a demonstrator can be a “used vehicle,” then
Plaintiff’s argument that the phrase “other motor vehicle sold with a
manufacturer’s new car warranty” under Section 1793.22(e)(2) includes “used
vehicles” sold with a remaining balance of a manufacturer’s new car warranty is
reasonable. 
 
b.    
Jensen’s Plain Meaning Interpretation of the Phrase “Other Motor
Vehicle Sold With a Manufacturer’s New Car Warranty”
 
            It is worth
noting that in Jensen, the Third District Court of Appeal did not find
Section 1793.22(e)(2) ambiguous. 
 
The appellate court “conclude[d]
[that] the words of section 1793.22 are reasonably free from ambiguity and cars
sold with a balance remaining on the manufacturer’s new motor vehicle warranty
are included within its definition of ‘new motor vehicle.’” (Jensen, supra,
35 Cal.App.4th at p. 123.) In so holding, the Court of Appeal did not consider
the meaning of the word “other” and, therefore, did not find (as this Court has
found above) that the phrase “motor vehicle sold with a manufacturer’s new car
warranty” serves as a catchall phrase that includes demonstrators and
dealer-owned vehicles. Instead, the Court found that “[t]he use of the word
‘or’ in the statute indicates ‘demonstrator’ and ‘other motor vehicle’ are
intended as alternative or separate categories of ‘new motor vehicle’ if they
are ‘sold with a manufacturer’s new car warranty.” (Ibid.) 
 
c.     
Rodriguez’s Plain Meaning of the Phrase “Other Motor
Vehicle Sold With a Manufacturer’s New Car Warranty”
 
Rodriguez’s reading of the
statute is closer to this Court’s understanding of the phrase “other motor
vehicle sold with a manufacturer’s new car warranty,” as the Court has
discussed above. 
 
            In that
case, the Fourth District Court of Appeal first “consider[ed] the broader
statutory context in which the definition of ‘new motor vehicles’ applies
before turning to the definition itself.” (Rodriguez, supra, 77
Cal.App.5th at p. 218.) 
 
The appellate court started its
relevant analysis by noting that “a hallmark of the Act is that its consumer
protections apply against the party who sold the product to the buyer and
issued the express warranty.” (Rodriguez, supra, 77 Cal.App.5th
at p. 218.)
 
“With [that] framework in mind,
[the Fourth District] turn[ed] to the refund-or-replace provision at issue and
the definition of ‘new motor vehicle.’” (Rodriguez, supra, 77
Cal.App.5th at p. 218.)
 
            Upon
reviewing the language of Section 1793.22(e)(2), the Court of Appeal found it
significant that the phrase “other motor vehicle sold with a manufacturer’s new
car warranty” “appear[red] in a definition of new motor vehicles.” (Rodriguez,
supra, 77 Cal.App.5th at p. 220 [italics removed].) “That fact alone
[according to the Court of Appeal] strongly suggest[ed] [that] the Legislature
did not intend the phrase to refer to used (i.e., previously sold) vehicles.
But, more importantly, the phrase is preceded by ‘a dealer-owned vehicle and
demonstrator,’ which comprise a specific and narrow class of vehicles. Though
they have not been previously sold to a consumer, demonstrators and
dealer-owned cars are used in the sense that they will have been driven for
various purposes before sale. As such, they will necessarily have more miles on
their odometers than the typical vehicle in a dealer’s new car inventory. What
makes these vehicles unique is that even though they aren't technically new,
manufacturers (or their dealer-representatives) treat them as such upon sale by
providing the same type of manufacturer's warranty that accompany new cars. ¶ In other words, demonstrators
and dealer-owned vehicles comprise a narrow category of basically new
vehicles—they have never been previously sold to a consumer and they come with
full express warranties.” (Ibid. [italics removed].)
 
            Given that
context, that demonstrators and dealer-owned vehicles are “basically new”
vehicles, the Fourth District in Rodriguez, like the Court in Jensen,
found that Section 1793.22(e)(2) was not ambiguous. 
 
However, unlike in Jensen
where the Third District found that the phrase “other motor vehicle sold with a
manufacturer’s new car warranty” includes used cars sold with a balance
remaining on the manufacturer’s new motor vehicle warranty, the Court of Appeal
in Rodriguez found that the statute was not ambiguous as to the
opposite; the phrase did not include those type of cars. 
 
The Rodriguez court held:
“[W]e think the most natural interpretation of the phrase ‘other motor vehicle
sold with a manufacturer’s new car warranty’ is that it, too, refers to
vehicles that have never been previously sold to a consumer and come with full
express warranties.” (Rodriguez, supra, 77 Cal.App.5th at p.
220.) 
 
In so holding, the Rodriguez
court rejected the plaintiff’s argument that “the phrase ‘other motor vehicle
sold with a manufacturer’s new car warranty’ as a distinct item in a list of
three types of vehicles—a standalone category of previously sold vehicles that
are conceptually distinct from dealer-owned vehicles and demonstrators.” (Rodriguez,
supra, 77 Cal.App.5th at p. 220.) According to the appellate court, “the
provision’s grammatical structure signals the list contains two types of
vehicles, not three. If the list contained three distinct types of vehicles, we
would expect to see commas separating the types. Instead, the use of ‘and’ and
‘or’ to separate the three items indicates the Legislature structured the
provision as a list of two vehicles (dealer-owned vehicles ‘and’ demonstrators)
followed by an adjectival clause qualifying or describing those vehicles.” (Ibid.)
“[That grammatical] organization reveals that, rather than create a new and
different class of vehicles, the phrase was intended to function as a
catchall provision to cover a narrow class vehicle—the previously driven,
but basically new (i.e., not previously sold) car.” (Ibid. [emphasis
added].)
 
To the Rodriguez court,
“nothing about the wording or structure of the provision indicates the
Legislature intended to expand the definition of ‘new motor vehicle’ to include
used vehicles sold with some part of the manufacturer's warranty still in
force. And the expansion would be a significant one, as there is no standard
length for the express warranties that manufacturers issue. Some
bumper-to-bumper warranties last for one year or 12,000 miles while others for
five years and 60,000 miles, and some limited warranties last 10 years or more.
Even a warranty like the one [in Rodriguez]—three years or 36,000
miles—could see several different owners before it expires.” (Rodriguez,
supra, 77 Cal.App.5th at p. 221.)
 
“[I]f the Legislature intended to
expand the definition of “new motor vehicle” to include a potentially vast
category of used cars …,” the Rodriguez court opined, “it would have
done so more clearly and explicitly than tucking it into a reference to
demonstrators and dealer-owned vehicles. (Rodriguez, supra, 77
Cal.App.5th at p. 221.)
 
The Fourth District’s “examination
of the entire Act yield[ed] two additional reasons for concluding the phrase
doesn’t cover subsequent sales of vehicles with unexpired manufacturer’s
warranties.” (Rodriguez, supra, 77 Cal.App.5th at p. 222.)
 
“First, the Act defines ‘express
warranty’ as any ‘written statement arising out of a sale to the consumer of a
consumer good pursuant to which the manufacturer ... undertakes to preserve or
maintain the utility or performance of the consumer good ....’ (§ 1791.2, subd.
(a)(1), italics added.) In [the] plaintiffs’ case [in Rodriguez], the
limited powertrain warranty did not ‘aris[e] out of’ the sale, [because] it
transferred to [the] plaintiffs by operation of law along with title to the
truck. The warranty arose from the initial sale to the truck’s first buyer.” (Rodriguez,
supra, 77 Cal.App.5th at p. 222.)
 
“Second, as part of the Motor
Vehicle Warranty Adjustment Programs ([Civ. Code] §§ 1795.90-1795.93), the Act
requires manufacturers to notify all ‘consumers’ of any warranty adjustments
regarding safety or emissions-related recalls, and defines ‘consumer’ as ‘any
person to whom the motor vehicle is transferred during the duration of an
express warranty.’ (§ 1795.90, subd. (a), italics added.) This definition of
‘consumer’ indicates the Legislature is aware of the distinction between
warranties that arise out of a sale and those that transfer to subsequent
purchasers as a result of a sale. The lack of reference to transferred
warranties in the definition of ‘new motor vehicle’ suggests the Legislature
made a deliberate choice not to include sales of used vehicles accompanied by
unexpired express warranties.” (Rodriguez, supra, 77 Cal.App.5th
at p. 222.)
 
“Based on all of these textual
reasons, [the Fourth District] conclude[d] the phrase ‘other motor vehicle sold
with a manufacturer’s new car warranty’ unambiguously refers to cars that come
with a new or full express warranty.” (Rodriguez, supra, 77
Cal.App.5th at p. 222.)
 
Notwithstanding the above, the Court disregards the Plaintiffs’
argument that Rodriguez incorrectly assumed that demonstrators come with
full warranty because the Court has sustained FCA’s objection to the document the
Plaintiffs rely on to support that argument. 
 
            Accordingly,
since the statutory language of Section
1793.22(e)(2) permits more than
one reasonable interpretation, the Court will proceed to the second step of
statutory interpretation and “consider other aids, such as the statute’s
purpose, legislative history, and public policy. [Citations.]’ [Citation.]” (Ailanto,
supra, 142 Cal.App.4th at pp. 582-583.) 
 
2.    
Legislative History of the Phrase “Other Motor Vehicle
Sold With a Manufacturer’s New Car Warranty” According to Jensen and Rodriguez
 
Despite finding the phrase “other
motor vehicle sold with a manufacturer’s new car warranty” unambiguous, both Jensen
and Rodriguez considered the legislative history of the statute. (Jensen,
supra, 35 Cal.App.4th at p. 123 [“because the peculiar grammatical
structure of [Section 1793.22(e)(2)] makes [manufacturer] BMW’s argument at
least superficially plausible, we also consider the legislative history [of
Section 1793.22(e)(2)]”]; Rodriguez, supra, 77 Cal.App.5th at p.
222 [“But even if this meaning weren’t readily apparent from the statute, the
Act’s legislative history would convince us the phrase refers to vehicles sold
with full warranties”].)
 
In Jensen, the Third
District Court of Appeal “reviewed the amendments to former section 1793.2,
documents relating to those legislative proceedings, and the statutory scheme
as a whole, [and] conclude[d] the plain meaning and the legislative intent [of
the phrase at issue] are one and the same.” (Jensen, supra, 35
Cal.App.4th at p. 123.)
 
According to the appellate court,
the “amendments show the Legislature has systematically attempted to address
warranty problems unique to motor vehicles, including transferability and
mobility. As [that] case demonstrate[d], there [was] a national wholesale
market for previously owned cars, including those under manufacturers’
warranty.” (Jensen, supra, 35 Cal.App.4th at p. 124.)
 
In Rodriguez, the Court of
Appeal noted that the phrase “other motor vehicle sold with a manufacturer’s
new car warranty,” “was added to the Act’s definition of ‘new motor vehicle’ in
1987 with the enactment of Assembly Bill Number 2057 (“AB 2057”).” (Rodriguez,
supra, 77 Cal.App.5th at p. 222.)
 
The appellate court looked at AB
2057 and “found no reference to used vehicles in any of the legislative
materials regarding Assembly Bill Number 2057. [The Court stated that] [o]ne
would assume that if the amendment proposed to expand manufacturers’ liability
under the Act to a large class of used vehicles, such a change to the status
quo would warrant mention if not discussion.” (Rodriguez, supra,
77 Cal.App.5th at p. 223.) According to the Court of Appeal: “The enrolled bill
report explains that our lawmakers deemed it necessary to add ‘dealer-owned
vehicles and “demonstrator” vehicles sold with a manufacturer’s new car
warranty’ to the definition of ‘new motor vehicles’ because ‘[s]ome buyers
[were] being denied the remedies under the lemon law because their vehicle is a
“demonstrator” or “dealer-owned” car, even though it was sold with a new car
warranty.’ [Citation.] This discussion indicates the amendment was intended to
provide relief to a narrow class of consumers by targeting a specific type of vehicle—the
basically new car.” (Rodriguez, supra, 77 Cal.App.5th at pp.
222-223.)
 
Given that legislative history does
not definitively reveal the answer, Jensen (but not Rodriguez) analyzed
the final step in statutory construction: applying reason, practicality, and common sense to the language at
issue. (Ailanto, supra,
142 Cal.App.4th at p. 583.)
 
3.    
Reason, Practicality, and Common Sense
 
“Addressing the final step in
statutory construction which applies reason, practicality, and common sense to
the language in question [citation], BMW [in Jensen] argue[d] the
Legislature could not have intended to grant protection to every used car with
a balance remaining on the new car warranty because of the economic impact on
consumers.” (Jensen, supra, 35 Cal.App.4th at p. 126.)
 
To that argument, the Jensen
court responded: “We acknowledge manufacturers such as BMW incur costs in
honoring express warranties to service and repair the cars they sell in this
state. We also presume the decision to offer a warranty of a specified length
involves weighing the benefit of increased sales against the cost of providing
service and repair for the effective duration of the warranty. It may be the
equation factors in the impact of resale during the warranty period. However,
as noted by BMW, manufacturers are free to change the terms of express
warranties they offer. The Act merely reflects the Legislature’s intent to make
car manufacturers live up to their express warranties, whatever the duration of
coverage.” (Jensen, supra, 35 Cal.App.4th at p. 127.)
 
This Court finds that reason,
practicality, and common sense favor reading the phrase “other motor vehicle
sold with a manufacturer’s new car warranty” as a catchall phrase that includes
a dealer-owned vehicle and a demonstrator. Otherwise, as discussed above at the
beginning of this analysis, the Legislature would not have included the word
“other” after specifying a dealer-owned vehicle and a demonstrator. 
 
Notwithstanding that ruling,
Plaintiffs have raised a valid point that there is an assumption that
dealer-owned vehicles and demonstrators come with “a manufacturer’s new car
warranty.”
 
However, that presumption has not
been proven or disproven even though it is necessary for this Court to find
that the Plaintiffs’ vehicle does not meet the definition of “other motor
vehicle sold with a manufacturer’s new car warranty.”
 
For those reasons, the Court finds
it proper to deny the motion for summary judgment.   At the hearing the parties may also discuss
staying the hearing or continuing trial until the California Supreme Court
decides Rodriguez. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is DENIED.
 
 
 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   April 30, 2024                                               ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court



