..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23STCV13045
Plaintiff's Name: Alden Javier Dominguez
Defendant's Name: General Motors LLC
People-Names: Alden Javier Dominguez, Holly J. Fujie
Company-Names: General Motors LLC
Places: Los Angeles, California
Dates: February 22, 2024, 2017
Events: Lemon law action, breach of warranty, motion to compel further responses
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: Plaintiff seeks to compel Defendant to provide further responses to request for production of documents
Facts: Plaintiff purchased a 2017 Chevrolet Silverado from Defendant, which was defective. Plaintiff filed a complaint alleging breach of warranty and lemon law claims.
Disputes: Defendant objects to Plaintiff's requests for production of documents, citing irrelevance and overbreadth.
Acts: Plaintiff filed a motion to compel further responses, and Defendant filed an opposition.
Agreements: The parties have a stipulated protective order in place.
Laws: California Civil Code, Code of Civil Procedure, and California Rules of Court
Case Citations: TBG Ins. Services Corp. v. Superior Court (2002), Kirkland v. Superior Court (2002), Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009), Donlen v. Ford Motor Co. (2013)
Statutes: Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act
Roles:
  - Judge: Holly J. Fujie
  - Plaintiff: Alden Javier Dominguez
  - Defendant: General Motors LLC
Significant Statements:
  - The Court grants Plaintiff's motion to compel further responses to request for production of documents.
  - The Court finds that Defendant's objections to Plaintiff's requests are without merit.
  - The Court orders Plaintiff to give notice of this ruling.
```

And here is the English-text summary:

The tentatively ruling judge, Holly J. Fujie, has considered the motion to compel further responses to request for production of documents filed by Plaintiff Alden Javier Dominguez. The motion is in response to Defendant General Motors LLC's objections to Plaintiff's requests for production of documents related to the 2017 Chevrolet Silverado vehicle purchased by Plaintiff. The Court finds that Defendant's objections are without merit and grants Plaintiff's motion. The Court orders Plaintiff to give notice of this ruling. The ruling is based on the California Civil Code, Code of Civil Procedure, and California Rules of Court, as well as relevant case law and statutes, including the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act.
