 Case Number:  23STCV22930    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



MICHELLE
  BRIONES, Administrator, on behalf of the ESTATE OF ROUGET BRIONES, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
MINA SIRKIN, ESQ., GEORGE MARK
  SANTA-ANNA, ESQ., and DOES 1 to 100, inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV22930
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
(1)  DEFENDANT MINA
  SIRKIN ESQ.’S SPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKE COMPLAINT PURSUANT TO CODE OF CIVIL
  PROCEDURE SECTION 425.16; and 
(2)  DEFENDANT GEORGE
  MARK SANTA-ANNA, ESQ.’S SPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKE COMPLAINT PURSUANT TO CODE
  OF CIVIL PROCEDURE SECTION 425.16
 
Date: February 22, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTIES: (1)
Defendant Mina Sirkin Esq. (“Defendant Sirkin”); and (2) Defendant George Mark
Santa-Anna, Esq. (“Defendant Santa-Anna”) (sometimes collectively, “Defendants”)
RESPONDING PARTY: None.

 
            The Court has considered the moving papers.
No opposition papers were filed.  Any
opposition papers were due to be filed at least nine (9) court days before the
hearing on the motion.  
 


 
BACKGROUND
            This is an action arising from an
alleged oral agreement for Plaintiff Michelle Briones to receive an inheritance
from the Estate of Maris Knauts. Plaintiff filed a Complaint against Defendants
Sirkin, Santa-Anna and DOES 1 to 100, for Intentional Misrepresentation (Fraud)
pursuant to California Civil Code Section 1710 et seq.
 
            Defendant Sirkin and Defendant
Santa-Anna each filed a special motion to strike the Complaint (the “Anti-SLAPP
Motion”). No opposition has been filed. (Code Civ. Proc. Section 1005(b).)
 
DISCUSSION
            Under Code of Civil Procedure,
Section 425.16, subdivision (b), “[a] cause of action against a person arising
from any act of that person in furtherance of the person's right of petition or
free speech under the United States Constitution or California Constitution in
connection with a public issue shall be subject to a special motion to strike
unless the court determines that the plaintiff has established that there is a
probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
425.16, subd. (b).)”
 
            Such a motion involves a two-step
analysis, in which the court must first determine whether a movant “has made a
threshold showing that the challenged cause of action is one arising from
protected activity ...” (Taus v. Loftus (2007) 40 Cal.4th 683, 712 (quoting
Equilon Enterprises v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 67).)
If the court so finds, it must then examine whether the respondent has
demonstrated a probability of prevailing on the claim. (Taus, supra, 40
Cal.4th at p. 712.) In determining whether the respondent has carried this
burden, the trial court considers “the pleadings, and supporting and opposing
affidavits stating the facts upon which the liability or defense is based.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b)(2); see Soukup v. Law Offices of
Herbert Hafif (2006) 39 Cal.4th 260, 291.)
 
Timeliness
            Under Code of Civil Procedure,
Section 425.16, subdivision (f), “The
special motion may be filed within 60 days of the service of the complaint or,
in the court's discretion, at any later time upon terms it deems proper.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (f).)
 
            The Court finds that both
Defendants’ Anti-SLAPP motions are timely. Although the Complaint was filed on
September 21, 2023, Plaintiff Briones did not file a summons on the complaint on
that date. Furthermore, when Plaintiff filed the summons on the complaint on
September 26, 2023, it did not include a proof of service, and no proof of
services has been filed since that date. Nonetheless, Defendants each filed a
notice of acknowledgement and receipt on November 29, 2023. Both Defendants
filed their Anti-SLAPP motion on December 29 2023, which is thirty (30) days
after their notices of acknowledgement and receipt were filed. Thus, Defendants’
Anti-SLAPP motions will be considered on the merits. 
 
Analysis
            Both Defendants move
to specially strike Plaintiff’s Complaint on the grounds that: (1) Plaintiff
Briones’ claims against Defendants fall squarely within the reach of the
Anti-SLAPP statute because they are based on Defendant Santa-Anna’s litigating
of and Defendant Sirkin’s filing and litigating of an underlying
conservatorship action on behalf of their respective clients, Rouget Briones
and Shoushan Movsesian; (2) Plaintiff cannot meet her responsive burden of
establishing the probability of prevailing on her claims against Defendants
because Plaintiff’s sole claim for intentional misrepresentation is barred by
the three-year statute of limitations per Code of Civil Procedure, Section 338,
subdivision (d); and (3) Plaintiff will be unable to prove the elements
constituting a cause of action for intentional misrepresentation. Defendant
Sirkin’s Anti-SLAPP motion is also based upon his position that Plaintiff’s
claim against him is barred by California’s absolute litigation privilege set
forth in Civil Code, Section 47, subdivision (b).
 
            Protected Activity
An act in furtherance of a person's right to
petition or free speech under the United States Constitution or the California
Constitution includes “(1) any written or oral statement or writing made before
a legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official
proceeding authorized by law, (2) any written or oral statement or writing made
in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a legislative,
executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding authorized by
law, (3) any written or oral statement or writing made in a place open to the
public or a public forum in connection with an issue of public interest, or (4)
any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of
petition or the constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public
issue or an issue of public interest.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (e).)
 
Defendant Sirkin’s position
Defendant Sirkin contends Plaintiff’s claims are
based upon Defendant Sirkin’s representation of Ms. Movsesian and the alleged
representation of Rouget Briones, despite the fact that Mr. Briones was not
Defendant Sirkin’s client. Defendant Sirkin further argues it is well settled
that claims by non-clients arise from petitioning activity because they are
based upon statements and conduct during the litigation and are subject to
protections set forth in Code of Civil Procedure, Section 425.16. (Thayer v. Kabateck Brown Kellner LLP (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 141, 158.) Moreover, Defendant Sirkin asserts
beginning in May 2018, appearing on behalf of her client Ms. Movsesian, she
began filing papers in the Conservatorship of
Maris Knauts to establish Ms. Movsesian as conservator of the
Estate of Maris Knauts and Ms. Movsesian’s nominee, Rouget Briones, as
conservator of the person of Maris Knauts. Additionally, Defendant Sirkin
contends she continued to represent Ms. Movsesian in the conservatorship action
until its conclusion in August 2021 and in the related matter of the Estate of
Maris Knauts. As such, Defendant Sirkin’s argues Plaintiff Briones’ claims
clearly arise from Defendant Sirkin’s constitutionally protected activity taken
on behalf of her client Ms. Movsesian. Lastly, Defendant Sirkin argues the rule
would still apply if she was hired by Rouget Briones because all her falsely
alleged actions including initial communications concerning her ability to
perform certain tasks would have been taken in furtherance of her purported
representation of Rouget Briones in the conservatorship action. 
 
Plaintiff Briones’ Complaint alleges that “the
subject matter of the lawsuit involves the 
Plaintiffs’ claim to the inheritance from the Estate of Maris Knauts.”
(Compl., ¶¶ 5, 10, 29; Mtn., p. 10:26-27.) The Complaint further alleges that Defendant
Sirkin introduced Plaintiff Briones to Ms. Movsesian and “[s]oon thereafter the
plan to disinherit Briones unfolded, and instead of drafting the trust and/or will, in May of 2018, a petition to conserve Knauts was
filed by Briones and Movsesian. The petition
was filed by Defendant Sirkin, whereby the petition sought to appoint Briones
as the conservator of the person of Knauts, and Movsesian
to be appointed conservator of the estate of Knauts.”
(Compl., ¶ 21; Mtn. p. 10:27-28, 11:1.) The Complaint further alleges that “Santa-Anna
and Defendant Sirkin conspired to deliberately misrepresent to Briones the
purpose of the conservatorship and whether Knauts contained the legal capacity
to draft a will and/or trust.” (Compl., ¶ 26; Mtn. p. 10:27-28, 11:1.) The
Complaint also alleges that “in 2015, Knauts made an oral agreement with
Briones that if Briones agreed to assist Knauts with daily needs, that Knauts
would leave the entirety of his estate to Briones.” (Compl., ¶ 16; Mtn. p.
11:2-4.) 
The Complaint also alleges that “In late 2017 and/or
early part of 2018, the Administrator solicited Defendant Sirkin. There was a
telephone conversation whereby Defendant Sirkin informed Plaintiff and the Administrator
that she could draft the necessary paperwork to establish Knauts’ wishes to
have Briones inherit his estate.” (Compl., ¶¶ 17-19; Mtn. p. 11:4-7.) The
Complaint then alleges that “Unbeknownst to Briones, Movsesian was a
professional fiduciary. However, Briones was under the impression she was an
attorney in Defendant Sirkin’s office.” (Compl., ¶ 20; Mtn. p. 11:8-9.) 
 
Finally, the Complaint alleges that “Each of the
Defendants failed to explain to Briones that it was not possible after the
establishment of the conservatorship that Knauts would have the legal capacity
to understand and appreciate the consequences of a will and/or trust. But yet,
seemingly as a tactic to divert Briones’ attention away from those issues,
Defendant Santa~-Anna continued to represent Briones to only be appointed the conservator
of the person of Knauts, and not the estate, whereby Briones would have the
authority to act upon Knauts best interests regarding his financial decision.”
(Compl., ¶¶ 21, 26; Mtn. p. 11:9-12.) 
 
“The mere fact that a plaintiff has filed an action
after a defendant has engaged in some protected activity does not mean that the
plaintiff's action arose from that activity. The anti-SLAPP statute cannot be
read to mean that any claim asserted in an action which arguably was filed in
retaliation for the exercise of speech or petition rights falls under section
425.16, whether or not the claim is based on conduct in exercise of those
rights." Gallimore v. State Farm Fire & Casualty Ins. Co.
(2002), 102 Cal.App.4th 1388, 1398 (internal citations and quotations
omitted).)
 
This is not the case here. Plaintiff Briones’
claims are predicated on Defendant Sirkin’s conduct throughout the filing and
litigation of the Conservatorship of
Maris Knauts leading to her prevailing in the probate action. Furthermore,
Defendant Sirkin cites to several allegations from the Complaint that concern
statements, communications, and actions taken by Defendant Sirkin in
furtherance of the probate action. These allegations form the basis of
Plaintiff Briones’ claim for intentional misrepresentation (fraud) and are not
merely incidental to unprotected conduct, if any, that are alleged in the
Complaint. (Peregrine Funding,
Inc. v. Sheppard Mullin Richter & Hampton LLP (2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 658, 672 (“where a cause of action alleges both
protected and unprotected activity, the cause of action will be subject to
section 425.16 unless the protected conduct is ‘merely incidental’ to the
unprotected conduct.”); Scott v.
Metabolife Internat., Inc. (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th
404, 414 (“if the allegations of protected activity are only incidental to a
cause of action based essentially on nonprotected activity, the mere mention of
the protected activity does not subject the cause of action to an anti-SLAPP
motion.”)
 
Therefore, the Court finds that Defendant Sirkin
has made a prima facie showing that the claims in the Complaint arise from
protected speech or activity and that the Anti-SLAPP statute does apply. 
 
            Defendant Santa-Anna’s Position
Defendant Santa-Anna contends his alleged conduct
was taken on behalf of his client, Rouget Briones, and is therefore
constitutionally protected litigation-related activity. Specifically, Defendant
Santa-Anna contends Mr. Briones retained him for the purpose of opposing the
Public Guardian of Los Angeles County’s competing petition to be appointed
conservator of the estate and person of Mr. Knauts. Defendant Santa-Anna
asserts he filed papers in the conservatorship action petitioning on behalf of
Mr. Briones as well as objected to the Public Guardian’s competing petition.
Furthermore, Defendant Santa-Anna asserts he attended a court-ordered mediation
on behalf of Mr. Briones and appeared at post-mediation hearings until his
withdrawal from the matter in August 2019. 
 
Plaintiff Briones’ Complaint alleges that “the
subject matter of the lawsuit involves the 
Plaintiffs’ claim to the inheritance from the Estate of Maris Knauts.”
(Compl., ¶¶ 5, 10, 29; Mtn., p. 10:26-27.) The Complaint further alleges that
“Santa-Anna and Defendant Sirkin conspired to deliberately misrepresent to
Briones the purpose of the conservatorship and whether Knauts contained the
legal capacity to draft a will and/or trust” and devised a “plan to disinherit
Briones….” (Compl., ¶¶ 21, 26; Mtn. p. 10:27-28, 11:1.) The Complaint also
alleges that “in 2015, Knauts made an oral agreement with Briones that if
Briones agreed to assist Knauts with daily needs, that Knauts would leave the
entirety of his estate to Briones.” (Compl., ¶ 16; Mtn. p. 11:2-4.) The
Complaint also alleges that “In late 2017 and/or early part of 2018, the
Administrator solicited Defendant Sirkin. There was a telephone conversation
whereby Defendant Sirkin informed Plaintiff and the Administrator that she
could draft the necessary paperwork to establish Knauts’ wishes to have Briones
inherit his estate.” (Compl., ¶¶ 17-19; Mtn. p. 11:4-7.) The Complaint then
alleges that “Unbeknownst to Briones, Movsesian was a professional fiduciary.
However, Briones was under the impression she was an attorney in Defendant
Sirkin’s office.” (Compl., ¶ 20; Mtn. p. 11:8-9.) Moreover, the Complaint
alleges that “Each of the Defendants failed to explain to Briones that it was
not possible after the establishment of the conservatorship that Knauts would
have the legal capacity to understand and appreciate the consequences of a will
and/or trust. But yet, seemingly as a tactic to divert Briones’ attention away
from those issues, Defendant Santa~-Anna continued to represent Briones to only
be appointed the conservator of the person of Knauts, and not the estate,
whereby Briones would have the authority to act upon Knauts best interests
regarding his financial decision.” (Compl., ¶¶ 21, 26; Mtn. p. 11:9-12.) Finally,
the Complaint alleges “Defendant Santa-Anna made several filings on behalf of
Briones primarily to respond to objections to Briones’
petition to be appointed conservator of the person of Knauts. However, upon information and belief, and upon that basis, Plaintiff alleges
that Defendant never informed Briones that his desire to
inherit the estate of Knauts was impossible after Knauts had been conserved.”
(Compl., ¶ 27; Mtn. p. 13:12-14.)
 
“The mere fact that a plaintiff has filed an action
after a defendant has engaged in some protected activity does not mean that the
plaintiff's action arose from that activity. The anti-SLAPP statute cannot be
read to mean that any claim asserted in an action which arguably was filed in
retaliation for the exercise of speech or petition rights falls under section
425.16, whether or not the claim is based on conduct in exercise of those
rights." Gallimore v. State Farm Fire & Casualty Ins. Co.
(2002), 102 Cal.App.4th 1388, 1398 (internal citations and quotations
omitted).)
 
This instant case is distinguishable. Although the
allegations regarding Defendant Santa-Anna’s conduct are limited, Plaintiff
Briones’ claim for intentional misrepresentation against Defendant Santa-Anna
are directly based upon Defendant Santa-Anna’s conduct throughout the filing of
the competing petition in the Conservatorship of Maris Knauts probate action
and litigation of that probate case until his withdrawal as Mr. Briones’
counsel. Further, Defendant Santa-Anna cites to multiple allegations of
Defendant Santa-Anna’s actions taken in furtherance of the probate case on
behalf of Mr. Briones. As such, these allegations are not merely incidental to
unprotected conduct, if any, that are alleged in the Complaint. (Peregrine Funding, Inc. v. Sheppard Mullin Richter
& Hampton LLP (2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 658, 672 (“where a cause of
action alleges both protected and unprotected activity, the cause of action
will be subject to section 425.16 unless the protected conduct is ‘merely
incidental’ to the unprotected conduct.”); Scott
v. Metabolife Internat., Inc. (2004) 115
Cal.App.4th 404, 414 (“if the allegations of protected activity are only
incidental to a cause of action based essentially on nonprotected activity, the
mere mention of the protected activity does not subject the cause of action to
an anti-SLAPP motion.”)
 
Therefore, the Court finds that Defendant
Santa-Anna has also made a threshold showing that the claims in the Complaint
arise from protected speech or activity and that the Anti-SLAPP statute does
apply.
 
The Court now turns to whether Plaintiff Briones
has a reasonable probability of prevailing on the claims in the Complaint. 
 
Probability of Prevailing on the Claim 
On
the second component of the analysis, courts employ a “summary-judgment-like”
procedure, “accepting as true the evidence favorable to the plaintiff and
evaluating the defendant’s evidence only to determine whether the defendant has
defeated the plaintiff’s evidence as a matter of law.” (Gerbosi v. Gaims, Weil, West & Epstein, LLP (2011) 193
Cal.App.4th 435, 444.) In other words, the court does not assess credibility,
and the plaintiff is not required to meet the preponderance of the evidence
standard. The court accepts as true the evidence favorable to the plaintiff,
who need only establish that his or her claim has “minimal merit” to avoid
being stricken as a SLAPP.  (Soukup, supra, 39 Cal.4th at 291.) 
 
The
Claim Against Defendant Sirkin
Defendant
Sirkin argues this present action is barred by the three-year statute of
limitations pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure, Section 338, subdivision (d),
which provides “[a]n action for relief on the ground of fraud or mistake” shall
be brought within three years. (Code Civ. Proc., § 338, subd. (d).) Further,
“[t]he cause of action in that case is not deemed to have accrued until the
discovery, by the aggrieved party, of the facts constituting the fraud or
mistake.” (Id.) Defendant Sirkin contends Plaintiff Briones brings this
action as Administrator on behalf of her father, Rouget Briones’ estate, so he
is the aggrieved party and the statute of limitations began to accrue when Mr.
Briones’ reasonably could have discovered the alleged fraud occurred. As such,
Defendant Sirkin argues the statute of limitations began to run on or before
August 12, 2019, the date Mr. Briones first alleged a conspiracy between
Defendant Sirkin and Defendant Santa-Anna to disinherit him from Maris Knauts’
estate in his objection to the petition authorizing sale of Maris Knauts’ home.
Defendant Sirkin further argues the statute of limitations for the intentional
misrepresentation cause of action expired August 2022 and this action was filed
in September 2023.
 
Defendant
Sirkin also contends Plaintiff Briones’ claim for intentional misrepresentation
is barred by California’s absolute litigation privilege under Civil Code,
Section 47, subdivision (b), which provides “a privileged publication or
broadcast is one made: [i]n any (1) legislative proceeding, (2) judicial
proceeding, (3) in any other official proceeding authorized by law, or (4) in
the initiation or course of any other proceeding authorized by law and
reviewable pursuant to Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 1084) of Title 1 of
Part 3 of the Code of Civil Procedure.” (Civ. Code, § 47, subd. (b); Flatley
v. Mauro (2006) 39 Cal.4th 299, 322 (“the privilege is an absolute
privilege, and it bars all tort causes of action except a claim of malicious
prosecution”).)
 
Defendant
Sirkin argues Plaintiff Briones’ claims against her stem from her conduct in
the Conservatorship of Maris Knauts taken on behalf of her client, Ms.
Movsesian. Defendant Sirkin contends throughout the Conservatorship of Maris
Knauts, she expressly indicated to Mr. Briones and to the Court in the
presence of Mr. Briones that she solely represented Ms. Movsesian. Defendant
Sirkin thus asserts all claims against her clearly arise from her
representation of Ms. Movsesian alone in her attempt to establish Ms. Movsesian
as conservator of the state of Maris Knauts and falls within the ambit of the
absolute litigation privilege. 
 
Moreover,
Defendant Sirkin argues Plaintiff Briones’ will be unable to set forth
sufficient evidence demonstrating a probability it can satisfy the elements
required to prove intentional misrepresentation. Defendant Sirkin contends
Plaintiff Briones set forth little evidence or factual support for the
allegations that Defendant Sirkin told Mr. Briones she would draft a will
and/or trust or that she told Mr. Briones that Ms. Movsesian was an attorney in
her office. Furthermore, Defendant Sirkin asserts that Mr. Rouget signed and
acknowledged that Ms. Movsesian was a professional fiduciary and not an
attorney. Additionally, Defendant Sirkin asserts Plaintiff Briones’ allegations
that Defendant Sirkin forged Mr. Briones’ signature are completely baseless and
contradicted by Mr. Briones’ own statement in his declaration to the motion to
disqualify Defendant Sirkin where he admits that he signed the nomination
attachment including the non-representation acknowledgement himself. Defendant
Sirkin argues the evidence also suggests that Mr. Briones was involved
throughout the Conservatorship of Maris Knauts by attending multiple
court hearings regarding appointment of the conservator, participated at
mediation where the parties agreed that Mr. Briones would withdraw his petition
and Ms. Movsesian would be appointed conservator of the person and estate of Maris
Knauts. Lastly, Defendant Sirkin argues Plaintiff Briones’ damages are
completely speculative and appear to be based on the benefit of the bargain.
Defendant Sirkin contends it is completely speculative as to whether Maris
Knauts would have executed such a will/trust leaving his assets to Mr. Briones
upon his death because Maris Knauts told his Attorney Kirakosian he wanted
nothing to do with Mr. Briones. Also, the purported holographic will filed in
probate in a petition by Plaintiff Briones as evidence of Mr. Knauts’ intention
to leave his estate to Mr. Briones, which misspelled Maris Knauts name was
rejected by the probate court. 
Although
Plaintiff Briones did not filed an opposition, the Court may consider the
pleadings in determining whether Plaintiff Briones has carried her burden of
proving she has a probability of prevailing on the claim of intentional
misrepresentation against Defendant Sirkin. First, Plaintiff Briones’ Complaint
does allege that she was unaware of the purported fraud until 2022. (Compl., ¶
30.) Plaintiff Briones proffers no evidence to support this claim. Even if
Plaintiff Briones did offer such evidence, it is clear from the nature of this
lawsuit that the aggrieved party for purposes of this action for fraud is
Plaintiff Briones’ father, Rouget Briones and Plaintiff Briones has not
submitted any evidence to refute or rebut Defendant Sirkin’s evidence that Mr.
Briones was aware of this alleged fraud in 2019. 
 
Plaintiff
Briones also does not proffer any evidence to support that Civil Code, Section
47, subdivision (b) does not apply to Defendant Sirkin in this instant action.
Finally, Plaintiff Briones submits the attachment 3(c) for the nomination of
Ms. Movsesian as conservator of the estate of Maris Knauts purported to have
Mr. Briones’ forged signature but presents no other evidence of documents with
his alleged true signature or statements by Mr. Briones denouncing that he
signed the purported nomination to support her claim that this document is
forged. Therefore, Plaintiff Briones has not established her sole claim for
intentional misrepresentation has minimal merit to avoid being stricken as a
SLAPP. 
 
The
Claim Against Defendant Santa-Anna
Defendant
Santa-Anna argues Plaintiff Briones cannot meet her burden because she will not
be able to prove the elements required to sustain an intentional
misrepresentation cause of action. Defendant Santa-Anna further argues even if
Plaintiff Briones can prove the elements required for an intentional
misrepresentation cause of action, this present action is barred by the
three-year statute of limitations under Code of Civil Procedure, Section 338,
subdivision (d). 
First,
Defendant Santa-Anna contends Plaintiff Briones’ Complaint is completely void
of facts regarding any fraudulent representation made by him beyond the vague
and conclusory allegations set forth in paragraph 26. Defendant Santa-Anna
further contends his representation of Mr. Briones was solely limited to
petitioning on behalf of Mr. Briones to establish him as conservator of the
person of Mr. Knauts and oppose the Public Guardian’s competing petition. As
such, Defendant Santa-Anna argues he filed the pleadings on behalf of Mr.
Briones and appeared at the court-ordered mediation with Mr. Briones, wherein
the parties agreed that Ms. Movsesian would be conservator of the person and
estate of Mr. Knauts. Moreover, Defendant Santa-Anna argues the few remaining
allegations against him, i.e., that Defendant Santa-Anna continued to represent
Mr. Briones “as a tactic to divert Briones’ attention away from those issues”
completely fail to allege a cause of action for intentional misrepresentation.
Defendant Santa-Anna also argues any reliance by Mr. Briones with respect to
any alleged misrepresentation would have been unreasonable because Mr. Briones
was involved throughout the Conservatorship of Maris Knauts action.
Defendant Santa-Anna contends Mr. Briones attended multiple court hearings
regarding the appointment of the conservator, participated at the mediation
where the parties agreed that Mr. Briones would withdraw his petition and that
Ms. Movsesian would be appointed conservator of the person and estate of Maris
Knauts. 
 
Lastly,
Defendant Santa-Anna argues Plaintiff Briones’ damages are completely
speculative and appear to seek the benefit of the bargain. Defendant Santa-Anna
contends this is completely speculative as to whether Maris Knauts would have
executed such a will/trust leaving his assets to Mr. Briones upon his death
because Maris Knauts told his Attorney Kirakosian he wanted nothing to do with
Mr. Briones. Defendant Santa-Anna also asserts the purported holographic will
filed in probate in a petition by Plaintiff Briones as evidence of Mr. Knauts’
intention to leave his estate to Mr. Briones, which misspelled Maris Knauts
name was rejected by the probate court. 
 
Next,
Defendant Santa-Anna argues this present action is barred by the three-year
statute of limitations pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure, Section 338,
subdivision (d), which provides “[a]n action for relief on the ground of fraud
or mistake” shall be brought within three years. (Code Civ. Proc., § 338, subd.
(d).) Further, “[t]he cause of action in that case is not deemed to have
accrued until the discovery, by the aggrieved party, of the facts constituting
the fraud or mistake.” (Id.) Defendant Santa-Anna asserts Plaintiff
Briones brings this action as Administrator on behalf of her father, Rouget
Briones’ estate, so he is the aggrieved party and the statute of limitations
began to accrue when Mr. Briones’ reasonably could have discovered the alleged
fraud occurred. Defendant Santa-Anna thus argues the statute of limitations
began to run on or before August 12, 2019, the date Mr. Briones first alleged a
conspiracy between Defendant Sirkin and Defendant Santa-Anna to disinherit him
from Maris Knauts’ estate in his objection to the petition authorizing sale of
Maris Knauts’ home. Finally, Defendant Santa-Anna contends the statute of
limitations for the intentional misrepresentation cause of action expired
August 2022 and this action was filed in September 2023.
 
Although
Plaintiff Briones did not filed an opposition, the Court may consider the
pleadings in determining whether Plaintiff Briones has carried her burden of
proving she has a probability of prevailing on the claim of intentional
misrepresentation against Defendant Santa-Anna. Here, Plaintiff Briones does
allege in her Complaint that she was unaware of the purported fraud until
sometime in 2022. (Compl., ¶ 30.) Plaintiff Briones does not however submit any
evidence to support this claim. It is also clear from the nature of this
instant lawsuit that the actual aggrieved party for purposes of this action for
fraud is Plaintiff Briones’ father, Rouget Briones and Plaintiff Briones has
not submitted any evidence to refute or rebut Defendant Santa-Anna’s evidence
that Mr. Briones was aware of this alleged fraud in 2019. 
 
In
addition, Plaintiff Briones does not proffer any evidence besides the
attachment 3(c) to support the claim of intentional misrepresentation against
Defendant Santa-Anna. While the attachment 3(c) for the nomination of Ms.
Movsesian as conservator of the estate of Maris Knauts submitted by Plaintiff
Briones in support of the allegation that Mr. Briones’ signature was forged,
Plaintiff Briones presents no evidence of documents with his alleged true
signature or statements by Mr. Briones denouncing that he signed the purported
nomination to refute Defendant Santa-Anna’s evidence that Mr. Briones
acknowledged that he signed this document. Therefore, Plaintiff Briones has not
established that her sole claim for intentional misrepresentation has minimal
merit to avoid being stricken as a SLAPP. 
 
 The Court therefore GRANTS both Defendant
Sirkin’s and Defendant Santa-Anna’s special motions to strike. 
 
Moving
Parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling.       
 


 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 22nd day of February 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



