 Case Number:  23SMCV02618    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Mohamadreza Yazdi,
D.D.S. v. Blakely Robles, et al. 23SMCV02618
Hearing Date February
15, 2023 
Defendant Baum’s
Anti-SLAPP Motion
Defendant Robles,
Baum & Mizrahi’s Demurrers to First Amended Complaint
 
In a prior action,
defendant herein patient Robles sued plaintiff herein dentist Yazdi for
malpractice. Robles received an award after contractual arbitration, entered as
a judgment by the superior court and affirmed on appeal. 
 
In this action, Yazdi
sues patient Robles and dentists Baum and Mizrahi. Yazdi alleges Baum testified
falsely at arbitration, and subsequent dental treatment by defendants Baum and Mizrahi
caused or exacerbated Robles’ injuries. 
 
On November 8, 2023
the court denied Baum’s anti-SLAPP motion to the initial complaint and
sustained his demurrer with leave to amend. Defendant Robles now files an
anti-SLAPP motion and demurs, as do defendants Baum and Mizrahi. 
 
Anti-SLAPP 
Courts resolving an anti-SLAPP motion under Cal. Civ. Code
§425.16 follow a two-step process. Jarrow
Formulas, Inc. v. LaMarche (2003) 31 Cal.4th 728, 733. In prong one, the
court determines whether the conduct underlying plaintiff’s cause of action
arises from defendant’s constitutional rights of free speech or petition. Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal. 5th 376,
395. This is a threshold issue—if moving party fails to show the conduct is
constitutionally protected, the court need not address prong two. Jarrow, supra, 31 Cal.4th at 733. 
 
The anti-SLAPP statute covers litigation-related activities,
and any statement or writing made in “connection with” litigation receive
protection. Seltzer v. Barnes (2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 953, 962. Statements
made during contractual arbitration are not subject to the anti-SLAPP statute. Century
21 Chamberlain & Assoc. v. Haberman (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 1, 8. Courts
take an expansive view of what constitutes “litigation-related activities” in
the context of anti-SLAPP analysis. Baral, supra.
 
Under
the second prong, the burden shifts to plaintiff to show a legally sufficient
claim and to prove with admissible evidence a reasonable probability that
plaintiff will prevail. E.g., Navellier
v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 88. To fulfill prong two, plaintiff cannot
rely on the allegations of the complaint but must produce evidence admissible
at trial. HMS Capital, Inc. v. Lawyers
Title Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 204, 212.
 
Robles
moves to strike the first cause of action for equitable relief under the
anti-SLAPP statute. He argues it arises from protected litigation activity --
his filing of a complaint against Yazdi, his pursuit of a judgment after
arbitration, and his defense of that judgment on appeal. 
 
In
opposition, Yazdi argues that since the underlying case was decided in contractual
arbitration, under Century 21, the anti-SLAPP statute does not apply.
Yazdi is correct the anti-SLAPP statute does not protect statements made in
contractual arbitration, since it is not a judicial or official proceeding. The
court previously denied Baum’s anti-SLAPP motion on these grounds, since the
gravamen of the claim against him was testimony he gave during contractual
arbitration.
 
However,
the gravamen of the first cause of action is not a statement made during
arbitration, or either party’s initiation of contractual arbitration. The first
cause of action is based on allegations that the post-arbitration judgment
against Yazdi was improperly entered. FAC pg. 3. That judgment was entered by the
superior court and upheld by the court of appeal. Both pursuit of entry of
judgment and subsequent appellate proceedings constitute “litigation-related
activities.” Robles’ right to obtain judgment after an arbitration award and to
preserve that judgment in the appellate court are protected petitioning
activity, covered by the anti-SLAPP statute. Prong One is fulfilled. 
 
Prong
Two 
Yazdi’s
opposition includes no admissible evidence showing a reasonable probability he
will prevail. GRANTED. Since the only cause of action alleged against Robles
has been struck, his demurrer is MOOT.
 
Dentist Defendants Baum and Mizrahi Demurrers
Baum and Mizrahi demur to Yazdi’s complaint on the grounds that
it is premature, as Yazdi has not paid the judgment against him and the
complaint does not allege facts showing Baum or Mizrahi committed negligence
such that they could be jointly liable for Robles’ injuries. 
 
Under Valley Circle Estates v. VTN Consolidated (1983)
33 Cal. 3d 604, a cause of action for equitable indemnity “accrues at the time
the tort defendant pays a judgment or settlement as to which he is entitled to
indemnity.” Id. at 611. Under the contribution statute,
a “right of contribution may be enforced only after one tortfeasor has, by
payment, discharged the joint judgment or paid more than his pro rata share
thereof.” Code of Civ. Proc. §875(c). 
 
A claim for equitable indemnity may be brought “either by
filing a cross-complaint in the original action or by filing a separate
indemnity action after paying more than its proportionate share of the damages
through the satisfaction of a judgment or through a payment in settlement.” Evangelatos
v. Superior Court (1988) 44 Cal.3d 1188, 1194. In other words, if equitable
indemnity is not alleged in the original action, the claim does not accrue for a
separate action until the judgment debtor pays the judgment. 
 
The FAC alleges “the Patient partially collected on the
judgment[.]” FAC ¶8. Mizrahi argues under Evangelatos, Valley Circle and
Code of Civ. Proc. §875(c), a judgment debtor must discharge the entire debt
before bringing a post-judgment action for indemnity or contribution, and as
the FAC admits the judgment has not been completely satisfied, it is subject to
demurrer. 
 
In opposition, Yazdi argues under Evangelatos partial
repayment is sufficient for purposes of claiming indemnity if the payment
represents more than the alleged indemnitee’s proportionate share of damages. 
 
Evangelatos
stated an indemnity action may be initiated by a defendant “after paying more
than its proportionate share of the damages through the satisfaction of a
judgment or through a payment in settlement.” Evangelatos, supra at 1197-1198.
The language is clear.  Settlement. A
post-judgment action for indemnity cannot commence until the judgment has been fully
satisfied. As Yazdi admittedly has not discharged the judgment, and he has not
allege he settled with Robles, his indemnity claim remains unripe. 
 
Under Cal. Civ. Code §875(c), Yazdi cannot seek
contribution. No “joint judgment” was issued in the underlying suit; judgment
was entered against Yazdi. Yazdi’s “pro rata share” of the judgment is 100%.
Only if and when Yazdi pays the judgment in full, may he bring a claim for
equity or contribution. SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 