  Case Number:  20SMCV01557    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Mardirossian v.
Howarth, Case No. 20SMCV01557
Hearing Date
February 15, 2023 
Cross-Defendant
Mardirossian’s Motion for Summary Adjudication/Judgment
 
Cross-complainant Howarth’s
Third Amended Cross-Complaint (TACC) alleges cross-defendant Mardirossian erected
a chain link fence on his property that encroaches on Howarth’s property. It
also alleges Mardirossian built a tennis court that violates a Coastal Development
Permit and the ten-foot setback requirement at the property boundary and
interferes with Howarth’s quiet enjoyment of his property. Finally, Howarth
alleges Mardirossian failed to construct a solid masonry wall to mitigate noise
from the tennis court as required by the Coastal Development Permit. Mardirossian
moves for summary judgment and/or adjudication. 
 
Evidentiary
Objections
Howarth Objections
1-3 SUSTAINED (improper legal opinion); objection 4 SUSTAINED as to
communications with representatives of the state (hearsay) OVERRULED as to the
rest of the sentence; objection 5 OVERRULED; objection 6 SUSTAINED (lack of
foundation); objection 7 OVERRULED; objection 8 OVERRULED; objection 9
SUSTAINED improper opinion; objections 10-12 OVERRULED.
 
Mardirossian
Objections: Objections 1, 2 OVERRULED; objections 3-4 SUSTAINED (lack of
personal knowledge, hearsay); objections 5-7 OVERRULED; objections 8-15
OVERRULED. 
 
Private Nuisance –
Setback 
The private
nuisance cause of action alleges “the tennis court improvements on the
Mardirossian property are less than 10 feet from the Boundary Line and violate
the ten-foot setback requirement.” TACC ¶25. 
 
Mardirossian
argues this claim fails because there is no private right of action to enforce
violation of a side yard setback. Mardirossian cites Taliaferro v. Salyer,
which held “[e]ven if defendant had constructed her building within the setback
lines required by ordinance (if there be any such requirements) . . . any
violation by defendant of the ordinance in this respect could not possibly give
rise to any cause of action to plaintiff[.]” (1958) 162 Cal.App.2d 685, 691-692.

 
Salyer is narrower than
Mardirossian argues. Plaintiff there alleged a neighbor built a structure
within the setback lines required by a zoning ordinance. Plaintiff therein argued
because the neighbor’s structure encroached on the setback, he was unable to fit
into the gap between the properties and was unable to do repairs on his own
structures. Plaintiff argued the setback ordinance created an easement,
allowing him to enter into the setback area on defendant’s property to conduct such
repairs. The court rejected plaintiff’s argument, finding the setback rule did
not create such an easement. However, it did not go so far as to hold that no
private action could ever lie for violation of a setback ordinance. 
 
As Howarth is not
claiming a de facto easement, Salyer is inapposite. Mardirossian
provides no binding authority holding violation of a setback ordinance can
never give rise to a private cause of action. 
 
Howarth cites Homeowners’
Ass’n. v. Wesley Palms Retirement Community (1986) 178 Cal.App.3d 1147,
1152, for the proposition that “[t]he law allows a private individual to enjoin
a zoning violation as a nuisance when the individual suffers a ‘special injury
to himself in person or property of a character different in kind from that
suffered by the general public[.]” The setback requirement here is a zoning
rule, so under Wesley Palms, Howarth may pursue a nuisance cause of
action arising out of its violation.
 
Mardirossian also
argues this cause of action fails because in 1999, the City approved a variance
reducing the setback requirement at the property’s edge from ten feet to five
feet. Mardirossian Separate Statement of Material Facts (MSF) 1, exhibit 2. As
Howarth correctly points out in opposition, the tennis court is on the
northwest side of the Mardirossian property, but the 1999 variance allowed “a
5-foot setback along a portion of the northeastern side yard…” Howarth
Separate Statement of Material Facts (HSF) 12. The 1999 variance does not apply
to the portion of the property where the tennis court is located. 
 
Finally,
Mardirossian presents evidence that even if the tennis court improperly intrudes
into the ten-foot setback area, the intrusion is de minimis and cannot
support a nuisance claim. Mardirossian cites Howarth’s declaration filed in
opposition to the prior MSJ, wherein Howarth states he did not discover the
tennis court improvements were within the setback area until 2020, though construction
was completed and approved twelve years earlier in 2008. Mardirossian Request
for Judicial Notice 3, ¶7; MSF 38-39. Mardirossian argues, and the court
agrees, a setback violation unnoticed for over a decade is unlikely to
constitute an actionable nuisance.
 
Mardirossian’s de
minimis argument is bolstered by Howarth’s admission that the offending
portion of the tennis court is “8 feet, 9 inches from where the surveyor says
my property line is,” rather than ten feet, as required by the setback
ordinance. MSF 44. 
 
The evidence is
that Howarth’s nuisance cause of action is based on an improvement that fifteen
inches from where it is supposed to be, at the back of Howarth’s property, up a
steep hill from his house. This violation, by Howarth’s own admission, was
unnoticed for over a decade. 
 
An actionable
claim for private nuisance requires a “substantial and unreasonable”
interference with the “use and enjoyment of the land.” Mendez v. Rancho
Valencia Resort Partners, LLC (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 248, 270. Mardirossian’s
evidence indicates no such interference exists. If the tennis court’s presence
within the setback area caused a “substantial and unreasonable” interference, it
would seem Howarth would have noticed it earlier. Further, it is difficult to
argue an encroachment of fifteen inches into a setback area could meaningfully
impede Howarth’s use and enjoyment of his property. Mardirossian meets his
initial burden on summary judgment. 
 
In opposition, Howarth
argues the setback encroachment is not the sole basis of his first cause of
action, stating the “improper construction and installation of the tennis court
improvements” created a “noise nuisance.” The cause of action as pled does not
mention any “noise nuisance,” only that the tennis court is “less than 10 feet
from the Boundary Line and violate the ten-foot setback requirement.” TACC ¶10.

Even if the court
were to assume the cause of action implicitly alleges a noise nuisance, it is
unclear how moving the tennis court back fifteen inches to comply with the
ten-foot setback requirement would meaningfully reduce the amount of noise
reaching Howarth’s property. Howarth presents no evidence, expert or otherwise,
on that issue. 
 
The gravamen of
the first cause of action is a setback violation. TACC 22-27. The evidence
indicates the tennis court only minimally encroaches into the setback area, and
Howarth was unaware of and unbothered by the encroachment (or any noise) for over
a decade. Howarth presents no evidence regarding how the alleged setback
encroachment substantially and unreasonably interferes with the use and
enjoyment of his property. Howarth cannot prove a key element of private
nuisance, so the cause of action fails. GRANTED. 
 
Trespass and
Ejectment 
Both parties agree
the allegedly encroaching chain link fence underlying these causes of action
has been removed. Howarth agrees to dismiss the fence-based causes of action;
the MSJ is MOOT as to these claims. 
 
Negligence 
To the extent this
cause of action is based on a setback violation and/or the construction of a
chain link fence, it fails for the reasons stated above. Howarth has not
provided evidence he was damaged by the setback violation, and the parties
agree the chain link fence was removed. Mardirossian correctly states the
remainder of the negligence claim is based on his alleged failure to construct
the six-foot wall referenced in the Coastal Development Permit and attached Mitigated
Negative Declaration (MND). TACC ¶38. 
 
The 2003 Coastal
Development Permit incorporates a MND that states “[e]nvironmental impacts to
the adjacent residences may result from project implementation due to tennis
court noise. However, these potential impacts will be mitigated to a level of
insignificance by the following measure: A 6-foot high solid masonry wall along
the property lines adjacent to the tennis courts shall be constructed, if no
such wall exists.” HSF Additional Facts 2. 
 
Mardirossian
argues all walls required by the Permit and MND have been built. He cites the City
approval of plans for the tennis court, and the City’s “finaling” of the
construction as evidence that construction conforms to all permits, including
the MND wall requirement. MSF 32, 34, 41. He notes the plans approved by the City
included a six-foot high fence, extending from an existing wall, constructed
along the property line, and argues the fence fulfills the wall requirement. Mardirossian
presents evidence that, as required by the permit, there is a ten-foot wall
around the tennis court, rendering an additional six-foot wall superfluous. City
approval of the tennis court construction plans and existence of a ten-foot
wall around the court is sufficient to shift the burden. 
 
In opposition, Howarth
argues the wall is made of stucco, and Mardirossian admits there is no six-foot
masonry wall on the property line. HSF 12, 25. This is conclusory. Howarth
presents no evidence the stucco wall does not qualify as “masonry” within the
meaning of the MND, nor does he present expert opinion to refute or undermine the
City’s determination that the MND’s requirements are fulfilled by the stucco
wall. Further, he presents no evidence that replacing the stucco wall with some
other “masonry” wall would better prevent noise from reaching Howarth’s
property. GRANTED.
 
Fifth through
Eighth Causes of Action 
These causes of
action are all based on the same allegations as the nuisance and negligence
causes of action, so summary judgment is appropriate for the reasons stated
above. GRANTED.
 
Continuing Nuisance

This cause of
action is based on the allegation that noise from the tennis court
“substantially diminishes [Howarth’s] enjoyment” of his property. TACC ¶¶70-72.

 
Mardirossian
argues Howarth cannot establish a substantial interference because he admitted
at deposition he has not heard any noise from the tennis court in several years.
MSF 54, exhibit 8. At deposition, when Howarth was asked “[w]hen’s the last
time prior to today that you heard noise from the tennis court…?,” he responded
“[i]t would have been some years ago . . . my best estimate would be more than
four years.” Id. When asked “[s]o it could be more than six years?,” he stated
“[t]hat’s also possible.” Id. 
 
This is
insufficient to carry Mardirossian’s initial summary judgment burden. The
initial cross-complaint was filed February 11, 2018. The TACC relates back to
that filing for statute of limitations purposes, since both are based on the
alleged improper construction of tennis court improvements. Garrison v.
Board of Directors (1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 1670, 1678. Nuisance is subject to
a three-year statute of limitations. Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. §338(b). 
 
Howarth testified he
did not hear noise from the tennis court within the four-year period prior to
the deposition, taken July 19, 2023. He did not testify there was no noise from
the tennis court in the years before the cross-complaint was filed in 2018. While
Howarth testified it may have been more than six years since he last heard
noise from the tennis court, he did not state it had definitely been more than
six years. There remains a triable issue of fact as to when Howarth last alleges
a noise disturbance from the court. Howarth’s testimony, while certainly
relevant to the measure of any potential damages, does not establish that there
was no noise within the three-year period prior to filing of the
cross-complaint. DENIED. 