  Case Number:  20STCV39307    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78  S DAVID SEDAGHAT,Plaintiff;  vs. STEWARD J LEVIN, Defendant.  Case No.:  20STCV39307 Hearing Date:  December 7, 2023    [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:  DEFENDANT LEVIN’S MOTIONS TO COMPELL PLAINTIFF’S FURTHER RESPONSES TO WRITTEN DISCOVERY  Defendant Levin’s motion to compel Plaintiff to serve further verified responses to Defendant’s Requests for Admission, Set One is GRANTED, except with respect to RFAs 5-7 which are DENIED.Defendant Levin’s motion to compel Plaintiff to serve further verified responses to Defendant’s Form Interrogatories, Set One is GRANTED.Defendant Levin’s motion to compel Plaintiff to serve further verified responses to Defendant’s Special Interrogatories, Set One is GRANTED, except with respect to Requests No. 15 and 16 which are DENIED. Defendant Levin’s motion to compel Plaintiff to serve further verified responses to Defendant’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set One  is GRANTED, except with respect to Request 4, 5, 15, 16 and 19 which are DENIED.Further verified responses with respect to all four motions and all responsive documents are to be served within 30 days after the date of this order. Sanctions in the amount of $2,650 are imposed on Plaintiff. Sanctions are payable within 30 days after the date of this order.Moving party to provide notice and to file proof of service of such notice within five court days.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDThis is an action related to Plaintiff’s representation in an underlying wrongful death action. The operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) alleges as follows. Plaintiff S. David Sedaghat’s (“Sedaghat”) father, Nasser Sedaghat (“Decedent”) was a patient at Defendant Tarzana Health and Rehab (“Tarzana Health”) for a temporary period. (SAC ¶ 11.) While under Tarzana Health’s care, Decedent was not given proper medical attention. (SAC ¶ 12.) Due to this neglect, Decedent passed away there. (SAC ¶ 13.) Plaintiff hired an attorney, Defendant Stewart J. Levin (“Levin”), to represent him in his wrongful death action. (SAC ¶ 15.) Levin failed to prepare the case for trial, and acted in Levin’s best interest, contrary to the interest of Sedaghat and Sedaghat’s siblings. (SAC ¶¶ 15-17.) Levin worked in conjunction with Defendants Tarzana Health, Kamran Kamrava, M.D. (“Dr. Kamrava”), Michael Lamb (“Lamb”), and Matthew Pascale (“Pascale”) to secure a settlement favorable to Defendants, and contrary to Sedaghat’s interests. (SAC ¶ 17.) PROCEDURAL HISTORYOn September 13, 2023, Levin filed these motions to compel Plaintiff’s further responses to Form Interrogatories (“FROGs”), Special Interrogatories (“SROGs”), Requests for Production (“RPDs”), and Requests for Admissions (“RFAs”). DISCUSSION I.  Legal StandardUnder Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, the Court may order a responding party to serve a further response to a request for production when the Court finds that any of the following apply: (1) a statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete; (2) a representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive; or (3) an objection in the response is without merit or too general. To prevail on a motion to compel further, the party moving for the order must first offer specific facts demonstrating “good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.” (Code Civ. Proc., sections 2031.310 (b)(1).) This burden “is met simply by a fact-specific showing of relevance.” (TBG Ins. Servs. Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 443, 448.) If “good cause” is shown by the moving party, the burden shifts to the responding party to justify any objections made to document disclosure. (Kirkland v. Superior Court (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 92, 98.) Under Code of Civil Procedure, section 2030.300, the Court may order a responding party to serve a further response to interrogatories when the Court finds that any of the following apply: (1) the answer to a particular interrogatory is incomplete or evasive; (2) the exercise of the option to produce documents is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is improper or inadequate; or (3) an objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., section 2030.300(b)(1).) A party to whom requests for admission have been directed must respond in writing under oath separately to each request. (Code Civ. Proc., section 2033.210(a).) A party may respond to a request for admission by answering that the party admits or denies the matter involved in the request. (Code Civ. Proc., section 2032.210(b). On receipt of a response to requests for admissions, the party requesting admissions may move for an order compelling a further response if that party deems that either or both of the following apply: (1) an answer to a particular request is evasive or incomplete or (2) an objection to a particular request is without merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., section 2033.290(a).)Sanctions are mandatory against “any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to interrogatories, requests for production, or requests for admission, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., sections 2031.310(h), 2030.300(d), 2033.290(d).) II. DiscussionDefendant Levin moves to compel Plaintiff’s further responses to FROGs, SROGs, RPDs, and RFAs. Plaintiff, in a late-filed opposition requests a 20-day continuance of this matter to allow him to file a more complete opposition. Plaintiff asserts that he has been under the weather. The request is denied as that excuse is insufficient. Plaintiff has had ample time to respond to these motions filed on September 13th and has not provided evidence of a medical condition that prevented the filing of more detailed oppositions. The late opposition was considered.  Levin’s counsel testifies that on March 13, 2023, he served a full set of written discovery on Plaintiff. (Diem Decl., ¶4.) On April 14, 2023, Plaintiff served his responses. (Id., ¶5.) On April 25, 2023, Levin’s counsel sent meet and confer correspondence to Plaintiff requesting to meet and confer via telephone. (Id., ¶6.) Plaintiff refused to state whether he would supplement his responses and refused to acknowledge Levin’s counsel’s meet and confer request. (Id.) On July 17, 2023, the parties participated in IDC requested by Levin. (Id., ¶8.) On July 28, 2023, Plaintiff served amended responses reasserting the same objections. (Id.) After Plaintiff again refused to discuss the responses, the parties participated again in IDC because of Plaintiff’s amended responses. (Id., ¶¶10-11.)                                                                                                                                   FROGsFROG 1: This FROG requested the name, address, phone number, and relationship to each person who prepared the responses to interrogatories. Plaintiff responded “Self.” The response to this FROG is incomplete because it fails to include Plaintiff’s address, name, and phone number.FROG 2.1, 2.2, 2.5-2.10: These questions seek basic background information about Plaintiff. Plaintiff objected to these questions, arguing they were irrelevant. Because Plaintiff is a party to this action, these questions would reasonably lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Plaintiff responded to 2.9 and 2.10, stating his ability to speak English was “Reasonable.” However, these responses are incomplete because Plaintiff failed to specify what language and dialect he normally uses. FROG 2.11-2.13, 6.1-6.7, 9, 9.2, 12.1-12.6, 13.1, 13.2, 14.1, 14.2, 50.1-50.6: To each of these FROGs, Plaintiff objected that the definitions of INCIDENT was vague, repeatedly referring to the “breach of contract” language in the definitions section. Levin checked the box reading “(1) INCIDENT includes the circumstances and events surrounding the alleged injury or other occurrence or breach of contract giving rise to this action or proceeding.” The definition of INCIDENT contains alternative definitions, including breach of contract so that a wide range of incidents may be covered by this definition. However, it is clear that the word INCIDENT here refers to the events giving rise to Plaintiff’s Complaint. The definition is not vague. Plaintiff also objected on the grounds that the questions called for legal conclusion, sought privileged information, that the information was equally available to Levin, and that the questions did not apply to a legal malpractice case. However, these interrogatories seek basic information about this matter, including information about witnesses, records of the incident, information about Plaintiff’s agreement with Levin, and other basic background information. The interrogatories do not call for a legal conclusion or seek privileged information. Additionally, Levin would not necessarily possess this information. The interrogatories are also relevant to Plaintiff’s claims of legal malpractice because they seek basic information about Plaintiff and the subject dispute.FROG 17: Plaintiff did not answer this question because he refused to make any admissions. As will be discussed below, Plaintiff improperly failed to respond to RFAs and will be required to respond to this interrogatory after he responds to the RFAs.Because Plaintiff failed to provide complete responses to each of these interrogatories without a valid objection, the motion is granted.SROGsPlaintiff’s responses to Levin’s SROGs consist entirely of objections, most of which are substantially the same. Plaintiff objects that the SROGs are vague as to the term “professional negligence.” Professional negligence refers to a claim for negligence against a professional such as an attorney. Plaintiff’s SAC alleges that Levin, an attorney, committed professional negligence by failing to properly litigate the underlying medical malpractice action. Thus, this term is not vague. Plaintiff also objects that various other terms are vague, including claim, statute of limitations, settlement agreement, mediation, professional services, and damage. These terms are not vague.Plaintiff also objects that the SROGs call for legal conclusions and expert opinion. The SROGs seek the facts upon which Plaintiff bases his case of action for professional negligence, the errors Plaintiff alleges Levin made, the damage Plaintiff incurred, and other information about the dispute. The Court finds the SROGs do not seek legal conclusions or expert opinion.Plaintiff also argues that the SROGs also seek confidential and privileged information. However, the SROGs seek facts about the events giving rise to this action and about Plaintiff’s claims. This information is not privileged or confidential.Plaintiff also argues that SROGs are uncertain and unclear. However, an examination of the SROGs shows they are not uncertain or unclear. Plaintiff also argues the SROGs are not relevant. However, each SROG asks for information about the subject dispute. Thus, the SROGs are relevant. Finally, Plaintiff argues the SROGs are excessive and burdensome. However, the questions do not appear to be excessive or burdensome.Plaintiff also alleges SROGs 15 and 16 are duplicative of SROGs 9 and 10. Because SROGS 9 and 10 do also seek the amount and calculation of damages, the SROGs are duplicative. The motion is denied with respect to SROGs 15 and 16. SROG 8 Plaintiff objects to SROG 8 on the grounds that Defendant Levin already possesses the information, Defendant Levin refused to respond to Plaintiff’s discovery, that the request is excessive and burdensome, and that damages have yet to be ascertained. SROG 8 seeks the amount of damage incurred from Levin’s alleged errors and omissions. Levin would not have access to this information. Additionally, answering the question is not excessive or burdensome. Finally, because it has been nine months since the SROGs were originally propounded, it is reasonable that Levin is seeking further answers to this question.The motion is granted except  with respect to SROGs 15 and 16.RPDsPlaintiff responded to Levin’s request for RPDs with objections and failed to produce any documents. Levin’s separate statement does not address RPD numbers 4, 5, 15, and 16.RPD 1 and 2: Plaintiff objected on the grounds that the requests were vague as to the term “witness to allegations.” However, this question seeks any statements any witness to the allegations in Plaintiff’s SAC may have made. The term is not vague. Plaintiff also objects on the grounds that the request is not limited in time and scope. However, the request is properly limited to the allegations of the SAC.Plaintiff also argues that the requests invade his privacy. However, Levin’s interest in discovering information about the subject incident outweighs Plaintiff’s privacy interest in this information. Finally, Plaintiff argues that Levin failed to respond to Plaintiff’s discovery. However, this is not a basis for refusing to respond to discovery requests.Plaintiff responded to these requests by stating Levin’s office assistants and attorneys of Tarzana Health and Rehab and Kamran Kamrava were witnesses to the events alleged in the SAC. However, the RPD requests any statements made by those witnesses, not merely their names. If Plaintiff does not possess statements made by witnesses, Plaintiff should state he possesses no responsive documents.RPD 3: These RPDs seek documents pertaining to communications with Levin. Plaintiff objected to the request on the grounds that the word “documents” is vague, the documents are privileged, the request is overbroad in time and scope, and the request is protected by Plaintiff’s right to privacy.There is no attorney-client privilege where the communication is relevant to the issue of breach by a lawyer or client of a duty arising out of the lawyer-client relationship. (Evid. Code, section 958.) Here, because Plaintiff’s SAC alleges Levin breached his duties as Plaintiff’s lawyer in the underlying action, communications between them relevant to this dispute are not privileged. The word “documents” is not vague because it means correspondence, email, notes, etc. regarding Plaintiff’s communications with Levin. The remaining objections are also without merit for the same reasons as above.RPD 6-13: These RPDs seek documents supporting the allegations in the SAC, damages, communications with Levin, and documents evidencing facts upon which Plaintiff bases the causes of action for professional negligence against Levin and other defendants, presumably the physicians, in this action. Plaintiff objected to these RPDs on the grounds that the questions are vague, unintelligible, overbroad, seek privileged information, or seek documents equally available to Levin. The RPDs are not vague. The objections are overruled for the same reasons above.RPDs 17-18: These RPDs seek documents pertaining to settlement negotiations in the underlying action. Plaintiff objected to these requests on the grounds that they were vague, Levin already has any responsive information in his possession, the information is privileged, the request is burdensome and excessive, and Levin has delayed discovery.The RPDs are not vague because the words “settlement negotiation” refer to settlement negotiations in the underlying action. It is also not certain that Levin possesses these documents because the RPDs seek all documents referencing settlement negotiations, not merely communications between counsel. The remaining objections are invalid for the same reasons as above.RPD 19: This RPD seeks all written communication between counsel representing Plaintiff and counsel representing any of the other parties concerning settlement of the underlying action. Plaintiff objected on the grounds that Levin represented Plaintiff in the underlying action, the request is vague as to the time and scope, the information is equally available to Levin, the information is privileged, and because Levin delayed discovery.Because Levin was Plaintiff’s attorney in the underlying action, he would have access to emails between himself and another party’s attorney. Thus, the motion is denied with respect to this request.RPD 20: This RPD requests all written communications between Plaintiff and his brothers concerning settlement in the underlying action. Plaintiff objected on the grounds that the information is protected by his right to privacy and calls for confidential and privileged information. Information about the underlying settlement is directly relevant to Plaintiff’s claims because the SAC alleges that he signed the settlement agreement due to undue influence. Thus, Levin has a legitimate discovery interest in communications Plaintiff may have had with his brothers regarding the settlement. This outweighs Plaintiff’s privacy interest in those communications. The information is not privileged or confidential because the communications do not appear to involve communications with another attorney.RPDs 21-22: These RPDs seek all documents specified in Plaintiff’s responses to SROGs and FROG number 50.1. Plaintiff responded by referring Levin to his responses to SROGs and FROGs. Because Plaintiff’s responses to interrogatories were deficient, as discussed above, Plaintiff must provide further responses to this RPD.RPD 23: This RPD seeks all written submissions in Court of Appeal case no. B30946. Plaintiff objects on the grounds that the documents are not relevant, seeks privileged and confidential information, and because the request is overbroad. Because the appeal relates to the underlying action, it is relevant to Plaintiff’s claims that Defendant Levin failed to properly litigate the underlying action. The documents would not be privileged because the RPD seeks court filings which are matters of public record. Finally, the request is limited to a specific case and are thus properly limited in scope.The motion is granted in part and denied with respect to RPD 4, 5, 15, 16, and 19.RFAsPlaintiff refused to admit or deny any of the RFAs propounded by Levin. Levin’s separate statement does not address RFA number 5-7.RFAs 1-2: These RFAs request that Plaintiff admit or deny that the claim for professional negligence has no merit and that Levin caused him no damage. Plaintiff objected on the grounds that the RFAs are vague, call for expert opinion and legal conclusion, seeks privileged information. The RFAs to not appear to be vague, do not seek privileged information, and would not require an expert opinion or legal conclusion. Plaintiff must admit or deny in response to these RFAs.RFAs 3-4: These RFAs request that Plaintiff admit or deny that Levin is not liable for damages in this action and that all services provided by Levin in the underlying action were within the standard of care. Plaintiff objected to these RFAs on the same grounds as RFAs 1-2, as well as on the grounds that the RFAs are unlimited in time and scope. The RFAs are properly limited in time and scope because they are limited to the underlying action. The remaining objections are overruled for the same reasons as above.The motion is granted in part and denied as to RFAs 5-7.Sanctions are mandatory here because Levin’s motions were granted and there is no indication that Plaintiff acted with substantial justification. Levin’s request for over $2,000 in sanctions per motion is excessive, particularly in light of the fact that the motions are very similar. The Court awards a total of $2,650 for ten hours of attorney time at a rate of $265 per hour.DATED:  December 7, 2023                                                                           ______________________Hon. Jill Feeney Judge of the Superior Court