 Case Number:  24SMCV00066    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205  HOOTAN TROY FARAHMAND,   Plaintiff, v.  BEL AIR CREST MASTER ASSOCIATION, et al.,   Defendants.    Case No.:  24SMCV00066     Hearing Date:  October 25, 2024   [TENTATIVE] order RE:   DEFENDANT’s demurrer to first    amended complaint    BACKGROUND This case involves a dispute between a homeowner and his homeowner’s association.  Plaintiff Hooton Farahmand owns two homes in the Bel Air Crest community.  Bel Air Crest is divided in two parts: a section of smaller single family homes that were designed and built by a developer (“Canyon Section”) and a section of larger custom homes (“Custom Section”).  (First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) ¶¶ 7, 11.)  Plaintiff purchased a home in the Canyon Section in 2011 and a second home in the Custom Section in 2020.  (Id. ¶¶ 7, 10)   Each section has its own homeowners association.  The Canyon Section has the Bel Air Crest Canyon Homes Association, and the Custom Section has the Bel Air Crest Custom Homes Association.  A third homeowners association, Defendant Bel Air Crest Master Association, is the defendant in this action, and handles common issues shared among the entire neighborhood such as roads and common areas.  All residents are members of their respective sub-association, depending on which section of the neighborhood their home is located, as well as the master association, Defendant.   The bulk of Plaintiff’s complaints revolve around his dispute with another homeowner, Hootan Melamed.  Plaintiff claims Melamed is “a two time federal felon recently released from federal prison” (Id. ¶14), and Melamed threatened him, his family and his business associates.  (Id. ¶¶ 14, 15).  Melamed told Plaintiff he would send people to kill Plaintiff, rape his wife and hurt his children.  (Id. ¶ 16.)  Plaintiff notified the police and received a temporary restraining order.  (Id.)    Plaintiff claims that Melamed’s actions were instigated by a board member of Defendant, Michael Moussa Yedision.  (Id. ¶14.)  Plaintiff had several business dealings with Yedishion that ended up in litigation.  (Id. ¶13.)  Plaintiff claims Yedision “likely” encouraged Melamed to go after Plaintiff and his family.  (Id. ¶14) Plaintiff alleges he notified Defendant’s board that Melamed was making threats against Plaintiff and his family, and that Plaintiff feared for his and their safety.  (Id. ¶ 18.)  He informed them that Yedision, a board member, who was aware of Melamed’s volatile nature and dislike for Plaintiff, was inciting Melamed to go after Plaintiff and his family.  (Id. ¶¶ 18, 20.)  Plaintiff asked the Board to take affirmative steps to protect Plaintiff from Melamed, including reimbursing Plaintiff for the cost of installing additional gates in front of his home.  (Id. ¶ 21.)  Plaintiff also asked that the Board consider his request in a closed session without Yedision’s knowledge or input.  (Id. ¶ 22.)       Despite his request, Plaintiff claims Defendant disseminated Plaintiff’s confidential complaint to all Board members.  (Id. ¶ 23.)  Melamed subsequently brought a lawsuit against Plaintiff, attaching a copy of the confidential complaint.  (Id. ¶ 26.)  Melamed testified the complaint was placed in his mailbox anonymously.  (Id.)     Plaintiff also makes other complaints unrelated to Melamed which Defendant characterizes as “insignificant and trivial slights.”  Plaintiff claims his request to sit on the Architectural Control Committee (“ACC”) for the Custom Section was denied because the committee was full and no board member would step down.  (Id. ¶ 11.)  He complains he asked the ACC committee to review his “urgent” request to install solar panels, but the board told him he needed to wait a month.  (Id. ¶ 12.)  He complains Defendant allowed other people to park on the street in front of Plaintiff’s home, when its prior policy provided that parking in front of Plaintiff’s home was reserved for Plaintiff and his guests.  (Id. ¶ 28.)   The FAC alleges two causes of action for (1) breach of fiduciary duty and (2) intentional infliction of emotional distress.     This hearing is on Defendant’s demurrer to the FAC.  Defendant argues that (1) the intentional infliction of emotional distress claim fails because Plaintiff has not alleged extreme and outrageous conduct on the part of Defendant and Plaintiff’s claims are based on contract for which Plaintiff cannot recover tort or consequential damages, and (2) the breach of fiduciary duty claim fails because Plaintiff’s allegation that Defendant breached its fiduciary duty by failing to consider his complaint in a closed session is barred by Civ. Code 4935(a) which allows for closed sessions only in limited circumstances not present here.   LEGAL STANDARD “[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 (in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents).)  For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)   Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 (court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”); Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 (“A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment.”).)  The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  MEET AND CONFER Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41 5 requires that before the filing of a demurrer, the moving party “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone” with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a).)  The parties are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a)(2).)  Thereafter, the moving party shall file and serve a declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a)(3).)  Defendant submits the Declaration of James M. Gilbert which attests the parties met and conferred by telephone on August 27, 2024, which is only one day (not the required five days) before the demurrer was filed on August 28, 2024.  Notwithstanding, the Court cannot overrule a demurrer based on an insufficient meet and confer.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a)(4).)   DISCUSSION Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s claim for intentional infliction of emotional distress fails because (1) Plaintiff has not alleged extreme and outrageous conduct on the part of Defendant and (2) Plaintiff cannot recover tort or consequential damages for a breach of contract.  The Court agrees.   To state a claim for intentional infliction of emotional distress, a plaintiff must allege (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress, (2) the plaintiff’s suffering of severe or extreme emotional distress, and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct.  Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.”  (Wilson v. Hyneck (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009.)    Here, Plaintiff alleges two extreme and outrageous acts – the Board’s dissemination of his confidential complaint about Melamed and the Board’s rescission of its parking agreement.  (FAC ¶¶ 38, 39.)  Neither rises to the level of extreme and outrageous conduct.   The Board could not have held a closed session, as Plaintiff requested because Civ. Code § 4935(a) (the “Open Meeting Act”) only allows for a closed session in limited circumstances not present here.  A closed session may be called to consider only: (1) litigation, (2) formation of a contract with a third party, (3) personnel matters, and (4) if requested by a member who is delinquent in the payment of assessments to discuss a payment plan.  (Id.)  A complaint by one member against another is not one of the limited circumstances in which an HOA can hold a closed session.  While Plaintiff may have desired to keep his complaint confidential, Defendant was prohibited by law from doing so.   Further, the Board’s alleged about-face on its parking agreement with Plaintiff does not exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.  It is unclear if it even violated the CC&R’s, as Plaintiff does not allege what the CC&R’s require nor does he attach a copy of the CC&R’s.   As to the second ground for Defendant’s demurrer to this claim, the Complaint alleges that “all of the acts and/or omissions complained of herein were performed and/or omitted with respect to contracts executed in Los Angeles County, California.”  (Compl. ¶6(1).)  The Complaint then identifies two separate contracts, the Covenants Conditions and Restrictions (CC&R’s) (what Plaintiff calls the “community rules”) and a purported parking agreement.  (Id. ¶29.)   Under California law, Plaintiff may not recover tort or consequential damages, such as emotional distress damages based upon an obligation arising from a contract unless the contract is one in which plaintiff’s emotional condition is an object.  (Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543, 555.)  Neither the CC&R’s nor the parking agreement were entered into for plaintiff’s emotional condition.  Accordingly, Plaintiff cannot recover tort damages for what he claims are “acts and/or omissions … performed and/or omitted with respect to contracts.”  (FAC ¶6(1).)   In sum, Plaintiff has failed to allege extreme and outrageous conduct, and Plaintiff cannot recover tort damages based on obligations he characterizes as arising under contract.  The Court sustains the demurrer to the intentional infliction of emotional distress claim.     Breach of Fiduciary Duty  Defendant argues that Plaintiff has not alleged a breach of fiduciary duty because Plaintiff has not shown that any of the acts or omissions he complains about violated the CC&R’s.  Indeed, one of those acts – holding a closed session regarding his complaint – would have violated the Open Meeting Act.  The Court agrees. The elements of a cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty are the existence of a fiduciary relationship, breach of fiduciary duty and damage.  (Oasis West Realty LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 820.)  Generally,¿fiduciary duties owed by a¿homeowners association to its members are limited to those arising from its governing documents and relevant statutory requirements. (Ostayan v. Nordhoff Townhomes Homeowners Assn., Inc.¿(2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 120, 129.) Here, Plaintiff alleges Defendant breached its fiduciary duty to Plaintiff by (1) failing to consider Plaintiff’s complaint about Melamed in a closed session, and to exclude one of Defendant’s board members from viewing the letter and (2) by permitting cars to park in front of Plaintiff’s home.  (FAC ¶¶ 32-34.)  The FAC, however, fails to allege that either violated the CC&R’s or relevant statutory requirements.  Indeed, as to the failure to hold a closed session and as discussed above, Defendant could not have done so without violating the Open Meeting Act. Plaintiff cites Coley v. Eskaton (2020) 51 Cal.App.5th 943, in support of his position that he has sufficiently stated a breach of fiduciary duty claim.  But the facts in Coley are not analogous. There, the court held a director “cannot obtain the benefit of the business judgment rule when acting under a material conflict of interest.”  (Id. at 953.)  Here, there is no conflict of interest or self-dealing alleged.     Accordingly, the Court sustains the demurrer to the breach of fiduciary duty claim.     CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS Defendant’s demurrer, with 20 days’ leave to amend.      IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED:  October 25, 2024    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court  