 Case Number:  24SMCV00902    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  205  
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles – West District 
Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205
 



 
LYUDA KSENYCH, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
VAHID ZAND, et al., 
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  24SMCV00902
 
  Hearing Date:  October 25, 2024
  [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
  defendants vahid zand and 
  niyousha eternadieh’s motions 
  to set aside default/default   
  judgment 
 



 
 
BACKGROUND
This is a construction defect
case.  Plaintiff Lyuda Ksenych entered
into a contract with Defendants Vahid Zand, Niyousha Eternadieh and Calcons,
Inc. to perform construction work at her home. 
Plaintiff alleges Defendants breached the contract by failing to
complete the work on time.  The work was
to be completed in two months, but Defendants took nearly 16 months.  Plaintiff also alleges Defendants damaged
flooring, expensive stone, and cabinets during the installation process.  On these facts, the operative complaint
alleges two claims for breach of contract and negligence.  
Plaintiff served the Complaint on Defendant
Enternadieh by personal service on March 17, 2024 and on Defendant Zand by
substitute service on March 17, 2024. 
Defendants did not respond.  Default
was entered on August 23, 2024.  
This hearing is on Defendants Zand
and Eternadieh’s (“Moving Defendants’”) motions to set aside default.  Moving Defendants argue they did not file a
response because they had an understanding with Plaintiff’s former counsel that
they would be dismissed from the Complaint. 
  
LEGAL
STANDARD
Code Civ. Proc. §473, subd. (b) provides for two
distinct types of relief from a default -- commonly differentiated as
“discretionary” and “mandatory.”  “Under
the discretionary relief provision, on a showing of ‘mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect,” the court has discretion to
allow relief from default.  Under the
mandatory relief provision, on the other hand, upon a showing by attorney
declaration of ‘mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect,’ the court must
vacate any ‘resulting default judgment or dismissal entered.’”  (Leader v. Health Industries of America, Inc. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 603, 615-616.)  
Applications seeking
relief under the mandatory provision of §473 must be “accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit
attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.” (Code
Civ. Proc., §473, subd. (b).)  The
mandatory provision further adds that “whenever relief is granted based on an
attorney’s affidavit of fault [the court shall] direct the attorney to pay
reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties.” (Id.)  
The application for
relief must be made no more than six months after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.  (Id.) 
And the application must be “accompanied by a copy of the answer or
other pleading proposed to be filed therein”. 
(Id.)
“It is settled that the law favors a trial on
the merits. . . and therefore liberally construes section 473.”  (Bonzer
v. City of Huntington Park (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 1474,
1477.)  “Doubts in applying section
473 are resolved in favor of the
party seeking relief from default. . . and if that party has moved
promptly for default relief, only slight evidence will justify an
order granting such relief.”  (Id.
at 1477-78.) 
DISCUSSION
Moving
Defendants’ motions to set aside default is timely.  Default was entered on August 23, 2024, and
Moving Defendants filed their motions on September 11, 2024, within six months of the
entry of default.  
However, Moving
Defendants have not satisfied the requirement of attaching a copy of the
proposed responsive pleading with their motions to set aside.  (Code Civ. Proc., §473.5(b).)  Their motions
indicate that the proposed responsive pleading is attached as Exhibit A.  (Motion at 2:5-8.)  However, Exhibit A is a meet and confer
letter, not a proposed response.  Accordingly, the Court denies the motions
without prejudice to Moving Defendants renewing their motions with the proper
submissions.  
CONCLUSION
For the foregoing reasons,
the Court DENIES the motions to set aside default.  
 
DATED:  October 25, 2024                                  ___________________________
Edward
B. Moreton, Jr.
Judge
of the Superior Court