 Case Number:  23CHCV02095    Hearing Date:   June 12, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept.
F43
Date:
6-12-24
Case
#23CHCV02095, Juan Gonzalez Perez vs. FCA US LLC, et al.
Trial
Date: 5-27-25
 
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER DISCOVERY RESPONSES
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff Juan Gonzalez Perez
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant FCA US LLC
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Further
Responses to Defendant’s Responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production, as
well as sanctions.
 
RULING:
Parties are ordered to meet and confer.
SUMMARY
OF ACTION AND ANALYSIS
On July 18, 2023, Plaintiff Juan Gonzalez Perez (Plaintiff)
filed this lemon law case against Defendant FCA US LLC (Defendant). 
 
Plaintiff
propounded his first set of requests for production on Defendant on December
19, 2023. On January 23, 2024, Defendant served responses to Plaintiff’s
requests for production but without verification. Defendant later served
verifications on February 20, 2024. On April 8, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel sent
Defendant’s counsel a meet and confer letter regarding Defendant’s responses. In
that letter, Plaintiff asked Defendant to provide a response by April 19, 2024.
The parties also agreed to extend the motion deadline to May 3, 2024. Defendant
did not respond to Plaintiff’s letter, so Plaintiff filed this motion to compel
further responses on May 3, 2023, for Requests for Production Nos. 28, 30, 35,
and 36. However, Defendant’s counsel did ask Plaintiff’s counsel via email to
let him know a date and time to discuss the discovery at issue, but Plaintiff’s
counsel never responded. (Lopez Decl., Ex. D; Rafter Decl., ¶ 6.) Instead, Plaintiff
filed this motion. Defendant also notes that Plaintiff did not mention Request
No. 30 in the meet and confer letter.
 
It
appears that the meet and confer process was insufficient. Defendant’s counsel
offered to discuss the discovery requests at issue, but Plaintiff’s counsel
never responded to that email. Plaintiff cannot claim that the meet and confer
process was sufficient when Plaintiff never gave Defendant a date and time for
them to discuss the responses. Beyond the letter, there was never any direct
communication between the parties regarding the sufficiency of Defendant’s
responses to the requests for production.
 
The
Court has reviewed the documents related to this motion and will not decide the
motion on the merits at this time. The Court orders the parties to meet and
confer directly, not by email or letter. Additionally, the parties are ordered
to file a joint statement of remaining issues by a date to be set by the Court.
The joint statement should briefly describe the matters in dispute, followed by
Plaintiffs’ arguments, then Defendant’s arguments.  
 
Prior
to meeting and conferring and preparing their joint statement, the parties
should refer to the Court’s Lemon Law discovery order posted online. It has a
list of acceptable documents to be requested during the discovery process.
 
ORDER  
1.
The parties are ordered to conduct a meaningful meet and confer. 
 
2.
The parties shall submit a joint statement of the remaining issues as described
above. The format should be as follows: the parties should recite the specific
discovery request at issue, followed by the moving party’s statement of why it
should be compelled, followed by the opposing party’s statement of why it
should not be compelled. To the extent that an argument is repeated for a
subsequent request, the party shall simply refer to the section where the
argument was previously made. 
 
3.
The dates for the status report and continued hearings will be set at the
hearing on this motion. 
 
4.
Moving party to provide notice.