  Case Number:  22TRCV00273    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  8  Tentative RulingHEARING DATE: January 22, 2025CASE NUMBER: 22TRCV00273CASE NAME: David R. Zimmerman, et al. v. Jay H. Zimmerman, et al.MOVING PARTY: Defendants/Cross-Complainants, Jay H. Zimmerman and Thomas B. ZimmermanRESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs, David R. Zimmerman, in is individual capacity, in his capacity as trustee of the David R. Zimmerman Family Trust, and derivatively on behalf of Sam Jadtar, a California Limited Partnership, Mortgage Mart, Inc., and Realty Rentals, Inc.TRIAL DATE: July 7, 2025MOTION: (1) Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Further Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One(2) Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One(3) Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Further Responses to Requests for Production, Set One(4) Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Further Responses Requests for Admission, Set One(5) Request for SanctionsTentative Rulings: (1) Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Further Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One – ARGUE.(2) Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One – ARGUE.(3) Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Further Responses to Requests for Production, Set One – ARGUE.(4) Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Further Responses Requests for Admission, Set One – ARGUE.(5) Request for Sanctions DENIED as to both Parties.The Court is strongly considering a referral of this series of discovery motions to a discovery referee. The Court cannot even ascertain from the parties’ voluminous papers whether or which of the Court’s suggestions at the IDC were followed, which is disconcerting given the Court’s effort to help reduce the number and substance of the discovery matters in disputes. The Court has identified below certain topics for each of Mr. Stone and Mr. Kane to address. Finally, the Court advises that parties that Judge Frank is being reassigned to a different department as of February 2025, and that it is his desire to avoid saddling the incoming judge for Department 8 with these multiple motions.I. BACKGROUNDA. FactualOn April 11, 2022, plaintiff David R. Zimmerman, in his individual capacity, in his capacity as trustee of the David R. Zimmerman Family Trust, and derivatively on behalf of Sam Jadtar, a California Limited Partnership, Mortgage Mart, Inc., a California Corporation, and Realty Rentals, Inc., a California Corporation filed the instant action against defendants Jay H. Zimmerman and Thomas B. Zimmerman and nominal defendants Sam Jadtar, a California Limited Partnership, Mortgage Mart, Inc., a California Corporation, and Realty Rentals, Inc., a California Corporation. The complaint alleges causes of action for (1) Dissolution of Limited Partnership (as to Sam Jadtar, LP); (2) Dissolution Of Corporation (as to Mortgage Mart, Inc.); (3) Dissolution Of Corporation (as to Realty Rentals, Inc.); (4) Breach Of Fiduciary (Derivatively On Behalf Of Nominal Defendants Mortgage Mart, Inc. And Realty Rentals, Inc.); (5) Corporate Waste (derivatively on behalf of Nominal Defendants Mortgage Mart, Inc. and Realty Rentals, Inc.); and (6) Unjust Enrichment (derivatively on behalf of Nominal Defendants Mortgage Mart, Inc. and Realty Rentals, Inc.On July 6, 2024, Defendant, Thomas Zimmerman propounded Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One, Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, and Requests for Admission, Set One on Plaintiff, David Zimmerman. On July 31, 2024, David Zimmerman requested an extension until August 16, 2024, which was granted.On August 16, 2024, Plaintiff, David Zimmerman served responses to Defendant, Thomas Zimmerman’s discovery. On September 16, 2024, Plaintiff, David Zimmerman served verifications. However, Defendant Thomas Zimmerman, argues that the responses were wholly inadequate. Thus, Defendant, Thomas Zimmerman has filed these Motions to Compel Further Responses from Plaintiff, David Zimmerman.B. ProceduralOn December 19, 2024, Defendant, Thomas Zimmerman filed these Motions to Compel Plaintiff’s Further Responses to Set One of his propounded discovery. On January 8, 2025, Plaintiff, David Zimmerman filed opposition briefs. On January 14, 2025, Defendant, Thomas Zimmerman filed reply briefs. Together with the original and responsive separate statements, the total volume of pages submitted by the parties for these motions is staggering.II. ANALYSISA. Legal Standard“Unless otherwise limited by order of the court in accordance with this title, any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code of Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) For discovery purposes, information is regarded as relevant “if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement thereof.” (City of Los Angeles v. Superior Court (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 272, 288.)Responses to interrogatories must be “as complete and straightforward as the information reasonably available to the responding party permits.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.220(a).) If an interrogatory cannot be answered completely, then it must be answered to the extent possible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.220(b).) “If the responding party does not have personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where the information is equally available to the propounding party.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.220(c).)B. Discussioni. Meet and Confer EffortsThe Parties both state that on October 17, 2024, Thomas Zimmerman’s counsel sent counsel for David Zimmerman a meet and confer letter. (Declaration of Brade Kane (”Kane Decl.”), ¶ 3; Declaration of Daniel G. Stone (“Stone Decl.”), ¶ 10.) The October 17, 2024 meet and confer letter required further responses by October 25, 2024. (Kane Decl., ¶ 3.)Plaintiff, David Zimmerman asserts that Thomas Zimmerman and his counsel failed to meet and confer in good faith prior to bringing this motion because Kane refused to meet and confer regarding every discovery request, and further refused to withdraw or narrow the scope of any discovery request. However, Plaintiff’s counsel also states that he did not respond to the meet and confer letter until November 1, 2024, and did not send back a meet and confer letter until November 4, 2024. (Stone Decl., ¶ 10.)On December 5, 2024, the Parties’ attended an IDC with this Court to discuss the outstanding discovery requests and this Court recommended the Parties’ meet and confer further following the Court’s informal suggestions at the IDC. (Stone Decl., ¶ 13.) However, Plaintiff argues that Thomas Zimmerman refused to withdraw any of the over 300 requests he had propounded, even though Plaintiff had supplemented responses to some of the discover requests. (Stone Decl., ¶ 13.) Defense counsel asserts that David Zimmerman has failed to provide examples of duplicative questions as recommended by this Court at the December 5, 2024 IDC. (Kane Decl., ¶ 2(b).)ii. Motions to Compel Further ResponsesInitially, the Court observes that there are over 250 discovery requests at issue with 683 pages of separate statements. The Court also is faced with Plaintiff’s objection to the definition of “INCIDENT” as to all of the Form Interrogatories; while the moving separate statement does not include the definition of “INCIDENT,” Plaintiff’s opposition to the Motion to Compel FROGS indicates that the FROGs use the Judicial Council definition which is designed for matters such as motor vehicle accidents or other litigation where the “circumstances and events surrounding the alleged accident, injury or other occurrence or breach of contract,” rather than the decades of alleged events giving rise to the subject litigation. Plaintiff’s objection to the use of the word “incident” thus appears to be well taken in the context of this litigation; it is vague and ambiguous.The Court understands that some supplemental responses have been filed prior to the hearing date of this motion, which would moot some of the requests in the Motion to Compel Further. It would have been helpful to Plaintiff to have provided a list of the discovery requests numbers that had been supplemented since the filing of this motion, which might moot the motion and commence a new 45-day period in which to bring a new motion to compel the further or supplemental responses, especially if Plaintiff had followed the Court’s direction at the IDC on areas where the Court agreed with the defense as to the need for further responses or where Plaintiff’s counsel agreed at the IDC to provide supplemental responses. Mr. Stone should do so at the January 22 hearing. It would also be helpful if Plaintiff had provided a list of the allegedly duplicative Special Interrogatories that Plaintiff claims to have already answered. Mr. Stone should do so at the January 22 hearing.As to the Requests for Admission, the Court does not find that many of RFAs to be compound, conjunctive, or disjunctive, nor does it find that many of them are ambiguous and unintelligible. However, the definitions of specially defined terms do not appear to be contained within the body of each RFA, which the Legislature intended by requiring an RFA to be “full and complete in and of itself.” (CCP § 2033(d).) While the specially defined terms are capitalized, the body of the RFA, even the first one where four specially defined terms first appears, does not contain the definition. Definitions of persons or parties as specially defined terms can be problematic, as they are here, where the definitions purport to include a broad swath of persons or entities, yet the parties apparently did not meet and confer about that threshold issue to narrow the scope and focus of the RFAs. Mr. Kane should address this meet and confer issue at the January 22 hearing. The Court also requires oral argument from both Parties as to the issue of the September 27, 2024 Stay of Discovery related to SAM order.Lastly, as to the RFPs, the Court requires the Parties to further meet and confer. At the hearing, the Parties are required to present oral arguments of whether the first 34 RFPs are duplicative and would produce duplicative responses and documents. Given the Court’s inclination to refer these discovery disputes to a discovery referee, that Court is also inclined to set a continued hearing for these motions 60 or so days out.iii. SanctionsBoth parties have made claims for a Request for Monetary Sanctions. At this time, the Court does not find good cause to award either party their request for monetary sanctions. However, if a discovery referee is appointed and recommends monetary sanctions, the Court would be inclined to follow that recommendation.