 Case Number:  23TRCV03165    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling   HEARING DATE:                 January 22, 2025    CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV03165   CASE NAME:                        Citibank, N.A. v. Chris Kastingar   MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiffs, Citibank, N.A.  RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant, Chris Kastingar (No Opposition)   TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set.                   MOTION:                             (1) Motion for an Order that Requests be Deemed Admitted, Set Two,  Against Defendant.  (2)    Request for Monetary  Sanctions.    Tentative Rulings:                  (1) Motion for an Order that Requests be Deemed Admitted, Set Two,  Against Defendant, is GRANTED (2)    Request for  Monetary Sanctions is DENIED without prejudice.   I. BACKGROUND   A. Factual    On September 26, 2023,  Plaintiff, CitiBank, N.A. (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendant,  Chris Kastingar (“Defendant”). The complaint alleges one cause of action for  Common Counts.    On September 24, 2024,  Plaintiff served, by mail, its second set of Requests for Admission on  Defendant. (Declaration of Anthony DiPiero (“DiPiero Decl.”), ¶ 2.) However,  Plaintiff states that Defendant has not served responses. (DiPiero Decl., ¶ 3.)  Thus, Plaintiff has brought this Motion to Deem Requests for Admission, Set Two  as Admitted.    The Court acknowledges that  on November 13, 2024, Defendant filed a Substitution of Attorney, noting he  would be representing himself.   B. Procedural                  On November 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed  this Motion to Deem the Truth of the Matters Specified in that Requests for  Admission, Set Two, Admitted. To date, no opposition has been filed.                This Motion was originally set for  December 6, 2024, but was continued to January 22, 2025.      II.  ANALYSIS    A. Legal Standard    Pursuant to Code of Civil  Procedure § 2033.280(c), the court shall make the order deeming the truth of  the matters admitted unless the responding party serves before the hearing a  proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance  with Code Civ. Proc § 2033.220. Code of Civil Procedure § 2033.220 requires  that each answer either admits, denies or specifies that the responding party  lacks sufficient information or knowledge. As stated in Demyer v. Costa Mesa  Mobile Home Estates, the moving party is not required to meet and confer  before bringing this action. (Demyer v. Costa Mesa Mobile Home Estates,  36 Cal.App.4th 393, 395.)   Code of Civil Procedure  section 2023.030, subdivision (a) provides, in pertinent part, that the court  may impose a monetary sanction on a party engaging in the misuse of the  discovery process to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,  incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. A misuse of the discovery  process includes failing to respond or submit to an authorized method of  discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (d).)               B.  Discussion     Plaintiff  has stated that on September 24, 2024, it served its Requests for Admission,  Set Two, on Defendant, Chris Kastigar. However, Plaintiff states that Defendant  has not served responses. (DiPiero  Decl., ¶ 3.) Because of this, the Court’s tentative ruling is to  GRANT Plaintiff’s motion. As such, this Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion and  deems the Request for Admission, Set Two as admitted.                 C. Sanctions                Code of Civil  Procedure § 2023.030(a) provides, in pertinent part, that the court may impose  a monetary sanction on a party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process  to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone  because of that conduct.  Misuse of discovery includes “failing to respond  or submit to an authorized method of discovery.”  (Code Civ. Proc.  §2023.010(d)).                Along with Plaintiff’s Motion to Deem Requests for  Admission, Set Two, Plaintiff also included a Request for Monetary Sanctions in  the amount of $600. This amount is based on counsel for Plaintiff, Anthony  DiPiero’s hourly rate of $450, spending 0.1 hours formatting the pleading  papers and gathering documents, 0.2 hours drafting the substantive legal  arguments, 0.5 hours reviewing and editing the motion sections and adding the  request for sanction, and 0.4 hours editing the entire motion for a total amount  of billed tie of 1.5 hours. Here, the Court acknowledges that it finds the  amount of hours and the hourly rate to be reasonable. However, this Court also  notes that the granting of this motion is devastating to Defendant’s potential  defenses in this case. The Requests for Admission that this Court is  tentatively inclined to deem as admitted are nearly tantamount to a motion  admitting Defendant’s liability, and thus this Court denies this request for  monetary sanctions, without prejudice to be reasserted if and when Defendant  seeks relief from the deemed admissions.       III. CONCLUSION    For the foregoing reasons,  Plaintiff’s Motion to Deem Requests for Admission as Admitted is GRANTED.  Plaintiff’s Request for Monetary Sanction is Denied without prejudice.    Moving party is ordered to  give notice.    