  Case Number:  23STCV14303    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  14 #8Case Background
Plaintiff alleges he went in for cataract surgery and that
his vision was more impaired post surgery.
On June 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed his Complaint (“SAC”)
for (1) Negligence, (2) Lack of Informed Consent, (3) Breach of Fiduciary Duty,
(4) Elder Abuse and (5) Medical Battery against Defendants Jae Y. Kim (Kim),
Regents of the University of California (Regents), and DOES 1-25. 
On January 3, 2024, the Court sustained Regents’ first
demurrer with 30 days leave to amend.
On February 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint.
On April 23, 2024, Defendants filed a demurrer to the
FAC and motion to strike.
On July 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition.
Instant Pleading
Regents demurs to the entire FAC. Kim demurs to the
fourth and fifth causes of action. 
Decision
The demurrers are SUSTAINED as
to the fourth and fifth causes of action only with 15 days leave to amend. 
The motion to
strike is GRANTED.

Discussion
1.     Demurrer 
Regents
demurs to each cause of action on the grounds that Regents is a corporate
entity incapable of practicing medicine or engaging in any of the conduct
alleged in the FAC.
An
employer is vicariously liable for an employee’s tort under the doctrine of
respondeat superior if the tort was committed within the scope of the
employment.  (Montague v. AMN Healthcare, Inc. (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 1515, 1520.) Further, Gov. Code 815.2 provides
that a public entity such as Regents is liable for the injuries caused by an
act or omission of an employee working within the scope of his employment.
Here, the FAC now alleges that Regents (named UCLA in
the FAC), is Defendant Kim’s employer and is liable for Kim’s conduct. (FAC
¶¶4, 25, 54.) Additionally, Kim performed surgery on Plaintiff while he was
employed as an ophthalmologist at the UCLA Jules Stein Eye Institute. (FAC ¶3.)

Because the FAC alleges Regents was Kim’s employer and
caused Plaintiff’s injuries while performing his duties as an ophthalmologist
for Regents, the FAC sufficiently states Regents is vicariously liable for
Kim’s conduct.
Accordingly, the demurrer is OVERRULED on this ground.
Regents and Kim demur to the fourth and fifth causes of
action for elder abuse and medical battery.
Elder Abuse 
Welfare & Institutions Code, section 15610.07(a)
provides:
 
            (a) “Abuse
of an elder or a dependent adult” means any of the following:
(1) Physical abuse, neglect,
abandonment, isolation, abduction, or other treatment with resulting physical
harm or pain or mental suffering.
(2) The deprivation by a care
custodian of goods or services that are necessary to avoid physical harm or
mental suffering.
(3) Financial abuse, as defined in
Section 15610.30.”
Here, the Court previously sustained Regents’ demurrer
on the grounds that Plaintiff should have clarified which of the above
categories applied here and plead the elements of the appropriate category.
Now, Plaintiff appears to allege that Defendants
engaged in elder financial abuse. 
Financial elder abuse occurs when a
person takes the property of an elder for a wrongful use or with intent to
defraud or by undue influence. (Welf. & Inst. Code, section 15610.30(a).)
A person is deemed to have taken the property when he or she has deprived an
elder of any property right. (See Welf. & Inst. Code section 15610.30(c).)
Although bad faith or intent to defraud is no longer required, wrongful use of
property must still be alleged. (Stebley v. Litton Loan Servicing, LLP (2011) 202
Cal.App.4th 522, 527-28.) “A person . . . shall be deemed to have taken . . .
property for a wrongful use if . . . the person  . . . takes  . . .
the property and the person . . . knew or should have known that this conduct
is likely to be harmful to the elder . . . .” (Id., section 15610.30(b).) 
Here, the FAC alleges that Defendants caused Plaintiff to
be silent or refrain from acting by promising they were taking care of him.
(FAC ¶45.) Defendants had Plaintiff sign documents despite knowing he could not
see, and threatened not to give Plaintiff surgery if he did not sign them. (Id.)
Plaintiff lacks his full medical records. (Id.) Plaintiff believes
Defendants intended to defraud him for financial gain. (Id.) 
The FAC fails to allege that Defendants took
Plaintiff’s property. Although the FAC alleges Defendants intended to defraud
him, there are no allegations that Defendant actually deprived Plaintiff of any
property right. The facts alleged are therefore insufficient to plead a cause
of action for elder financial abuse. The FAC likewise does not allege that Defendants
physically abused, neglected, or abandoned Plaintiff. Finally, the FAC does not
allege that Defendants were care custodians of goods or services necessary to
avoid physical harm or mental suffering. 
Therefore, the demurrer is SUSTAINED as to the cause of
action for elder abuse.
Medical Battery
Medical battery
occurs when (1) Defendant performed a medical procedure without plaintiff’s
consent or (2) plaintiff consented to one medical procedure, but defendant performed a substantially
different medical procedure. (Dennis v. Southard (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th
540 fn. 1.) Whether a medical procedure that was performed is “substantially
different” from the one that a plaintiff consented to is a question for the
jury. (See Kaplan v. Mamelak (2008) 162
Cal.App.4th 637, 647.) 
 
A physician may
be liable for battery when he fails to obtain the patient's consent to a procedure or performs a substantially different
procedure than the one the patient consented to. (Cobbs v. Grant (1972)
8 Cal.3d 229, 240-241.) When the patient gives permission to perform one type
of treatment and the doctor performs another, the requisite element of
deliberate intent to deviate from the consent given is present. (Ibid.)
However, when the patient consents to certain treatment and the doctor performs
that treatment but an undisclosed inherent complication with a low probability
occurs, no intentional deviation from the consent given appears. (Ibid.)
The Court previously sustained Regents’ demurrer on the
grounds that Plaintiff failed to plead that Kim performed a different kind of
surgery or deliberately botched the procedure. As before, the FAC alleges that
Defendants performed a substantially different medical procedure from the one
Plaintiff consented to. (FAC ¶¶54-55.) The FAC now adds respondeat superior
allegations and that Plaintiff does not have complete medical records. (Id.)
However, as before, Plaintiff alleges that he received cataract surgery
performed by Kim on his left eye and that the surgery left him with blurred
vision, an unhealed eye, a watery eye, and headaches. (FAC ¶¶7, 12.) Kim did
not perform the surgery with the same degree of care as other ophthalmologists
in the community. (FAC ¶25.)  Plaintiff
was not informed of the possible complications or risks of the surgery. (FAC
¶8.) 
These facts show that Plaintiff consented to and
received cataract surgery, Kim performed the surgery negligently, and Plaintiff
suffered injuries to his eyes. Therefore, the facts do not state Plaintiff
received a substantially different procedure, but rather that he underwent the
surgery he consented to and suffered complications. The complications do not
constitute an intentional deviation from Plaintiff’s consent because Plaintiff
still received cataract surgery even if complications arose. Because Plaintiff
fails to allege that Kim performed a substantially different procedure from the
one Plaintiff consented to, the FAC fails to plead the elements of medical
battery. 
The demurrer is therefore SUSTAINED as to this cause of
action.
2.    
Motion to strike
Defendant moves to strike paragraphs 10, 11, 59, 60,
and both paragraphs 61 in the FAC. Defendant argues that Plaintiff had not
obtained leave of court to assert a claim for punitive damages. 
In
order to state a
prima facie claim for punitive damages, a complaint
must set forth the elements as stated in the general punitive damage statute,
Civil Code section 3294. (College Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.) These statutory elements include allegations
that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud or malice. (Civ. Code,
§ 3294, subd. (a).) 
“Malice
is defined in the statute as conduct intended by the defendant to cause injury
to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant
with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (College
Hospital, Inc., supra, 8 Cal.4th at p. 725 [examining Civ. Code,
section 3294, subd. (c)(1)].) “A conscious disregard
of the safety of others may constitute malice within the meaning of section
3294 of the Civil Code. In order to justify an award of punitive damages
on this basis, the plaintiff must establish that the defendant was aware of the
probable dangerous consequences of his conduct, and that he willfully and
deliberately failed to avoid those consequences.” (Taylor v. Superior
Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 895-896.) 
Here, as discussed above, the FAC at most alleges that
Defendant Kim performed cataract surgery and that Plaintiff suffered from
complications. This conduct does not rise to the level of despicable conduct
required by Code Civ. Proc., section 3294. Therefore, the FAC fails to allege
facts sufficient to support a demand for punitive damages.
Conclusion
The demurrers are SUSTAINED as to the fourth and fifth
causes of action with 15 days leave to amend. 
The motion to strike is GRANTED.
 