 Case Number:  23STCV25635    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 
 



MURAL MEDIA, LLC 401K PLAN, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
LINDA J. MAULTSBY, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 


     
  CASE NO.:  23STCV25635
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO TRANSFER
  VENUE 
 
Date: February 13, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Judge: Holly J. Fujie
 



 
MOVING PARTY:
Defendant Linda J. Maultsby (“Moving Defendant”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY:
Plaintiff
 
The Court has
considered the moving and opposition papers. 
No reply papers were filed.  Any
reply papers were required to have been filed and served at least five court
days before the hearing under California Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”)
section 1005, subdivision (b). 
 
BACKGROUND
            This action arises out of a
landlord/tenant relationship. 
Plaintiff’s complaint (the “Complaint”) alleges: (1) unlawful detainer.  
 
 
 
On January 10, 2024, Moving Defendant
filed a motion to transfer venue pursuant to CCP section 397, subdivision (c)
(the “Motion”).  
 
DISCUSSION
Under CCP
section 395, subdivision (a), except as otherwise provided by law, the superior court in the county where the
defendants or some of them reside at the commencement of the action is the
proper court
for the trial of the action.  (CCP § 395,
subd. (a).)  The court may, upon motion, change the place of trial when the
court designated in the complaint is not the proper court when the convenience
of witnesses and the ends of justice would be promoted by the change.  (CCP § 397, subd. (c).)
 
A moving
party under CCP section 397, subdivision (c) must demonstrate the transfer will
promote both the convenience of witnesses and the ends of justice.  (Rycz v. Superior Court of San Francisco
County (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 824, 836.)  Generally, the convenience of the parties is
not to be considered upon a motion for a change of venue.  (Id.)  Before the convenience of witnesses may be
considered as a ground for an order granting a change of venue it must be shown
that their proposed testimony is admissible, relevant and material to some
issue in the case as shown by the record before the court.  (Id.)  The declaration or declarations
supporting the motion should set forth the names of the witnesses,
the nature of the testimony expected from each, and the reasons why the
attendance of each would be inconvenient. 
(Id.)  Convenience of
witnesses is shown by the fact that the residence of all the witnesses is in
the county to which the transfer of the cause is requested.  (Id. at 837.)  A conclusion that the ends of justice are
promoted can be drawn from the fact that by moving the trial closer to the
residence of the witnesses, delay and expense in court proceedings are avoided
and savings in the witnesses’ time and expenses are effected.  (Id.) 
A motion pursuant to CCP section 397, subdivision (c) must be made after
an answer has been filed.  (See id.;
Johnson v. Superior Court of Fresno County (1965) 232 Cal.App.2d 212,
214.) 
 
            Moving
Defendant has not yet filed an answer to the Complaint.[1]  Accordingly, the Motion was prematurely
filed.  Moreover, the Court notes that
the evidence offered in support of the Motion does not sufficiently demonstrate
that the identified potential witnesses’ testimony is admissible, relevant, and
material to an issue in this case.  (See
Declaration of Linda J. Maultsby (“Maultsby Decl.”) ¶¶ 3-5.)  Nor does the Motion request a particular
venue that would be a suitable forum for a potential transfer.  (See Maultsby Decl. ¶ 6.)  The Court therefore DENIES the Motion without
prejudice.  
 
 
Moving party is
ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
 
 
 
 
Parties who intend to
submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar. 
 
 
  Dated
this 13th day of February 2024
 
 



  






Hon. Holly J. Fujie 
Judge of the Superior Court 



 
 
 


