  Case Number:  23STCV03405    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Dr. Nayyer Ali, M.D., et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV03405




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Dignity Health, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: November 3, 2023
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for Attorney’s Fees
Moving Party: Defendants Dignity Health dba St.
Mary Medical Center, Carolyn Caldwell, Charles Anderson and Christopher Pook
Responding Party: Plaintiffs Dr. Nayyer Ali, M.D. and
Dr. Mauricio Heilbron, M.D.
 
T/R:      DEFENDANTS’ MOTION
FOR ATTORNEY’S FEES IS GRANTED.
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE.
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email the
courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
                
On February 16, 2023, Plaintiffs Dr.
Nayyer Ali, M.D. and Dr. Mauricio Heilbron, M.D. sued Defendants Dignity Health
dba St. Mary Medical Center, Carolyn Caldwell, Charles Anderson, and
Christopher Pook, asserting causes of action for (1) intentional interference
with prospective economic relations; and (2) retaliation. Plaintiffs allege
Defendants retaliated against Plaintiffs for advocating for the medical staff
and patients. 
 
On June 15, 2023, the Court granted in
part the anti-SLAPP motion of Defendants Dignity Health dba St. Mary Medical
Center, Carolyn Caldwell, Charles Anderson, and Christopher Pook.
 
 
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Pursuant to CCP § 425.16(c), “a
prevailing defendant on a special motion to strike shall be entitled to recover
his or her attorney’s fees and costs.” 
“A prevailing defendant on an anti-SLAPP motion is entitled to seek fees
and costs ‘incurred in connection with’ the anti-SLAPP motion itself, but is
not entitled to an award of attorney fees and costs incurred for the entire
action. . . .  [T]he award
of fees is designed to ‘reimburs[e] the prevailing defendant for expenses
incurred in extracting herself from a baseless lawsuit’ rather than to
reimburse the defendant for all expenses incurred in the baseless
lawsuit.”  (569 East County Boulevard
LLC v. Backcountry Against the Dump, Inc. (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 426, 433
[citations omitted].)  
 
Defendants move for attorney’s fees in
the amount of $41,619.23 following the Court’s striking of
allegations relating to the peer review process. Defendants represent that
261.8 hours were spent working on the anti-SLAPP motion, with hourly rates
ranging from $1,162.00 to $913.00. Defendants acknowledge that their motion was
granted only as to certain allegations and propose recovery of 15% of the total
$277,461.53 in fees for an award of $41,619.23.
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue Defendants should not recover any fees
because the anti-SLAPP motion did not strike any material claims and the allegations
regarding the peer review process were merely context, rather than a basis for
liability. The Court rejected this argument in its ruling on the anti-SLAPP. 
 
Plaintiffs also contend that Defendants’ counsel’s hours and hourly
rates are excessive, Defendants have impermissibly block-billed, and spent
attorney time on administrative tasks. The Court has reviewed counsel’s
billings and finds them reasonable. Anti-SLAPP motions are complex. They take significant skill and time,
and require investigation, research, and analysis. Defendants have made a
reasoned, good faith attempt to apportion fees between successful and unsuccessful
aspects of the motion.
 
Defendants’ motion is GRANTED.


 