 Case Number:  23STCV11535    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of
  California
County of Los
  Angeles




 
Daniel Meza,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV11535




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
American Honda Motor Co., Inc.,


 
 
 
Defendant.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: November 3, 2023
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Demurrer to Complaint and Motion to
Strike
Moving Party: Defendant American Honda Motor Co.,
Inc.
Responding Party: Plaintiff Daniel Meza
 
T/R:      DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER IS OVERRULED.
 
THE MOTION TO STRIKE IS DENIED.
 
DEFENDANT TO FILE AND SERVE AN ANSWER
TO THE COMPLAINT WITHIN 30 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING. 
 
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing counsel
(or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
                
This is a lemon law action arising out
of the purchase of a 2022 Honda Accord manufactured and distributed by
Defendant Honda. Plaintiff brings this action for violations of the
Song-Beverly Act and fraudulent concealment. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken
to the whole complaint or to any of the causes of action in it.  (CCP § 430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only the legal
sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual allegations or the
plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations. 
(Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.
App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court must treat
as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law. 
(Id. at 732-33.)  The
complaint is to be construed liberally to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
A. Fifth Cause of Action for Fraud
 
Defendant demurs the fifth cause of
action for fraud by concealment on the grounds Plaintiff has failed allege
sufficient facts and the cause of action is barred by the economic loss rule.
 
The elements of fraud are: “(a)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce
reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Charnay v.
Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 184.) California law recognizes four
circumstances in which a nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable
fraud: “(1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the
plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not
known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively conceals a material
fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the defendant makes partial
representations but also suppresses some material facts.”  (Heliotis v. Schuman (1986) 181 Cal.
App. 3d 646, 651.)  
 
Generally, “[i]n California, fraud must
be pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.” (Alfaro
v. Community Housing Improvement System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009)
171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384, internal quotations omitted.) Fraudulent
concealment need not be pled with the same degree of specificity, as “it
appears from the nature of the allegations that the defendant must necessarily
possess full information concerning the facts of the controversy,” and it is
necessarily difficult to specifically plead something that did not occur. (Id.)
However, some level of specificity is required. (See Blickman Turkus, LP v.
MF Downtown Sunnyvale, LLC (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 858, 878 [“Concealment is
a species of fraud, and ‘[f]raud must be pleaded with specificity.’”])
 
The Court of Appeal in Dhital v.
Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, recently addressed
issues similar to those in this demurrer. The Court of Appeal found that the
following allegations were sufficient to state a cause of action for fraud:
“plaintiffs alleged the CVT transmissions installed in numerous Nissan vehicles
(including the one plaintiffs purchased) were defective; Nissan knew of the
defects and the hazards they posed; Nissan had exclusive knowledge of the
defects but intentionally concealed and failed to disclose that information;
Nissan intended to deceive plaintiffs by concealing known transmission
problems; plaintiffs would not have purchased the car if they had known of the
defects; and plaintiffs suffered damages in the form of money paid to purchase
the car.” (Id. at 844.) 
 
Plaintiff has alleged analogous facts
here. This is sufficient to plead fraud.
 
Dhital also addressed whether the economic
loss rule bars claims for fraud by concealment under Robinson Helicopter
Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal. 4th 979. The Court finds Dhital
persuasive.[1]
As the Court of Appeal explained,
 
Applying Robinson here (and cognizant that our Supreme Court may
soon provide additional guidance) we conclude plaintiffs’ claim for fraudulent
inducement by concealment is not subject to demurrer on the ground it is barred
by the economic loss rule. Robinson left undecided whether
concealment-based claims are barred by the economic loss rule. What follows
from its analysis, however, is that concealment-based claims for fraudulent
inducement are not barred by the economic loss rule. The reasoning in Robinson
affirmatively places fraudulent inducement by concealment outside the coverage
of the economic loss rule. We now hold that the economic loss rule does not
cover such claims. First, as discussed, Robinson identified fraudulent
inducement as an existing exception to the economic loss rule, before it
proceeded to analyze the particular claims at issue in that case relating to
fraud during the performance of a contract. (Robinson, supra, 34 Cal.4th
at pp. 989–990, 22 Cal.Rptr.3d 352, 102 P.3d 268.) For fraudulent inducement
and the other existing exceptions listed in Robinson, “ ‘the duty that
gives rise to tort liability is either completely independent of the contract
or arises from conduct which is both intentional and intended to harm.’ ” (Id.
at p. 990, 22 Cal.Rptr.3d 352, 102 P.3d 268.)
 
(Id. at 840-841.)
 
Plaintiff has alleged a claim for fraud
by concealment. The economic loss rule does not act as a bar to this claim.
 
The demurrer is OVERRULED. 
 
As Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged
fraud, Plaintiff has alleged entitlement to punitive damages. The motion to
strike is DENIED.
 
 
 
 
 


