  Case Number:  21STCV32886    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  56     SUPERIOR  COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR  THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT      OLLYE G. INGRAM,    et al.,                          Plaintiffs,             vs.   ANTHONY THOMPSON, et al.,                                                                                                            Defendants.                                               CASE NO.:  21STCV32886   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:  DEFENDANT CENTAURUS FINANCIAL, INC.’S MOTION    FOR LEAVE TO FILE COMPULSORY CROSS-COMPLAINT AGAINST PLAINTIFF JOACHIM REICH   Date: June 20, 2024 Time: 8:30 a.m. Dept. 56          MOVING PARTY: Defendant  Centaurus Financial, Inc. (“CFI”)   RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff  Joachim D. Reich, individually and as trustee of the Joachim D. Reich Trust  dated March 14, 1998, an Illinois trust (“Reich”)               The Court has considered the moving,  opposition and reply papers.    BACKGROUND              This action stems from an allegedly failed private  placement investment in the Spring Gate Plaza Delaware Statutory Trust (“Spring  Gate DST”).  Plaintiffs’  operative complaint asserts a cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty and  various statutory, tort and contract claims against Defendants.  Plaintiff Reich was an investor in the Spring Gate DST, while Defendant CFI served  as the broker-dealer for the investment.              CFI  now seeks leave to file a cross-complaint against Reich.  Reich opposes the motion.   For  the reasons set forth below, the Court grants the motion.               DISCUSSION   Legal Standard   Code  of Civil Procedure section 428.10 states:   A  party against whom a cause of action has been asserted in a complaint or  cross-complaint may file a cross-complaint setting forth either or both of the  following:   (a)  Any cause of action he has against any of the parties who filed the complaint  or cross-complaint against him. Nothing in this subdivision authorizes the  filing of a cross-complaint against the plaintiff in an action commenced under  Title 7 (commencing with Section 1230.010) of Part 3.   (b)  Any cause of action he has against a person alleged to be liable thereon,  whether or not such person is already a party to the action, if the cause of  action asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same transaction,  occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause brought  against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or interest in the property or  controversy which is the subject of the cause brought against him.   After  the trial date has been set, a party seeking to file a cross-complaint must  obtain leave of court.  (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 428.50(b).)  Leave may be granted in  the interest of justice at any time during the course of the action.  (Id., § 428.50(c).)  Indeed, where a cause of action would  otherwise be lost, leave to file a cross-complaint is appropriate even if the  party was negligent in not moving for leave to file earlier.  “The legislative mandate is clear.  A policy of liberal construction of section  426.50 to avoid forfeiture of causes of action is imposed on the trial court.  A motion to file a cross-complaint at any time  during the course of the action must be granted unless bad faith of the moving  party is demonstrated where forfeiture would otherwise result.”  (Silver Organizations, Ltd. v. Frank  (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 98-99.)   “Cross-complaints  for comparative equitable indemnity would appear virtually always  transactionally related to the main action.”   (Time for Living, Inc. v. Guy Hatfield Homes (1991) 230  Cal.App.3d 30, 38.)   Analysis               CFI argues  that the claims it asserts in the proposed cross-complaint against Reich relate  to and arise out of the same transactions or occurrences as the claims of Reich  and the other Plaintiffs against Defendants in the operative complaint.  As such, CFI contends that the cross-complaint  is compulsory, and CFI must be given leave to file the same.  CFI further argues that there is no evidence  that CFI acted in bad faith in not bringing the cross-complaint against Reich  sooner. CFI claims that the only reason for the delay in bringing the  cross-complaint against Reich is that CFI’s counsel did not piece together the  nature and extent of Reich’s involvement in causing or contributing to the  damages complained of by Plaintiffs in this action earlier.   In opposition, Reich argues that CFI’s motion  should be denied as CFI failed to act in good faith, citing the delay in filing  the motion (approximately two years from filing its answer to the second  amended complaint) and the purported misrepresentation of facts in CFI’s  assertions in its proposed cross-complaint.   Moreover, Reich asserts that CFI’s proposed cross-complaint fails to  state a cause of action against Reich, pointing out that it does not set forth  grounds on which Reich supposedly owed a duty to the other Plaintiffs.              The Court finds that CFI’s proposed cross-complaint  arises out of the same transaction and occurrence as the claims brought by Reich  and the other Plaintiffs.  More  specifically, Plaintiffs allege that the Spring Gate DST failed due to  fraudulent misrepresentations, omissions and mismanagement by Defendants.  In its proposed cross-complaint, CFI alleges  that Reich played an active role in managing the Spring Gate DST, and that therefore,  the alleged failure of the investment was substantially due to Reich’s actions  and omissions.  It is evident that CFI’s claim is connected to the main action, as both  sides are attempting to hold each other responsible for the alleged failed  investment at issue in this action.   As to Reich’s  assertion that the proposed cross-complaint fails to state a cause of action,  the merits of the cross-claim have no bearing on CFI’s right to file the  cross-complaint. As discussed above, the law mandates granting leave to file a  compulsory cross-claim absent evidence of bad faith.     Accordingly, the Court will permit CFI to file the  cross-complaint in the interest of justice.  CFI is ordered to file the cross-complaint within ten (10) Court days.;   RULING   The  motion for leave to file cross-complaint is GRANTED.   CFI  is ordered to give notice of this ruling.      Parties who intend to submit on this  tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed  by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email  and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off  calendar.   Dated this 20th day of June 2024                     Hon. Holly J. Fujie Judge of the    Superior Court      