 Case Number:  23STCV14422    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



SAEED FARKHONDEHPOUR,
  et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
COCHRAN, DAVIS & ASSOCIATES, PC, et
  al., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  23STCV14422
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE CROSS-COMPLAINT
  
 
Date: June 20, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants
Cochran, Davis & Associates, PC, Jeffrey Thomas Bolson, and Joan E. Cochran
 
RESPONDING PARTY: None
 
BACKGROUND
            
This action stems from a legal malpractice claim
brought by Plaintiffs Saeed Farkhondehpour and Illusion Holdings, LLC against Defendants
Cochran, Davis & Associates, PC, Jeffrey Thomas Bolson, and Joan E.
Cochran (collectively “Cochran”) and Callanan, Rodgers & Dzida, LLP and
Joseph S. Dzida (collectively “Callanan”). 
The legal malpractice claim relates to Cochran and Callanan’s joint
representation of Plaintiffs as defendants in the matter of Ocean Blue
Investments, LLC v. Saeed Farkhodehpour, et al., LASC Case No. BC709417
(the “Lawsuit”).
 
Cochran
filed an answer to the complaint on September 9, 2023, without filing a
cross-complaint against Callanan at that time. 
Cochran now seeks leave to file a cross-complaint against Callanan.  The motion is unopposed.
 
For
the reasons set forth below, the Court grants the motion.
             
DISCUSSION
 
Legal Standard
 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 428.10 states:
 
A
party against whom a cause of action has been asserted in a complaint or
cross-complaint may file a cross-complaint setting forth either or both of the
following:
 
(a)
Any cause of action he has against any of the parties who filed the complaint
or cross-complaint against him. Nothing in this subdivision authorizes the
filing of a cross-complaint against the plaintiff in an action commenced under
Title 7 (commencing with Section 1230.010) of Part 3.
 
(b)
Any cause of action he has against a person alleged to be liable thereon,
whether or not such person is already a party to the action, if the cause of
action asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same transaction,
occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause brought
against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or interest in the property or
controversy which is the subject of the cause brought against him.
 
After
the trial date has been set, a party seeking to file a cross-complaint must
obtain leave of court.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 428.50(b).)  Leave may be granted in
the interest of justice at any time during the course of the action.  (Id., § 428.50(c).)  Indeed, where a cause of action would
otherwise be lost, leave to file a cross-complaint is appropriate even if the
party was negligent in not moving for leave to file earlier.  “The legislative mandate is clear.  A policy of liberal construction of section
426.50 to avoid forfeiture of causes of action is imposed on the trial
court.  A motion to file a
cross-complaint at any time during the course of the action must be granted
unless bad faith of the moving party is demonstrated where forfeiture would
otherwise result.”  (Silver
Organizations, Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 98-99.)
 
“Cross-complaints
for comparative equitable indemnity would appear virtually always
transactionally related to the main action.” 
(Time for Living, Inc. v. Guy Hatfield Homes (1991) 230
Cal.App.3d 30, 38.)
 
Analysis
 
            In its proposed cross-complaint
against Callanan, Cochran argues that Callanan was somehow responsible for the
events described in Plaintiffs’ complaint and is thus accountable for the
damages incurred by Cochran.  As a
result, Cochran seeks to assert causes of action against Callanan for equitable
indemnity and apportionment of fault, among others.  
            
The Court finds that Cochran’s proposed
cross-complaint against Callanan arises out of the same transaction and
occurrence as the claim brought by Plaintiffs.  Both claims relate to Cochran and Callanan’s
joint representation of Plaintiffs in the Lawsuit, which is at issue in the
main action. 
 
 As discussed above, the law mandates granting
leave to file a compulsory cross-claim absent evidence of bad faith.  
 
Accordingly, the Court will grant leave for Cochran
to file the cross-complaint against Callanan in the interest of justice.  The Cross-Complaint is ordered to be filed by
Cochran within ten (10) Court days.
 
RULING
 
The
motion for leave to file cross-complaint is GRANTED.
 
Defendants
Cochran, Davis & Associates, PC, Jeffrey Thomas Bolson, and Joan E. Cochran
are ordered to give notice of this ruling.             
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 20th day of June 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



