 Case Number:  24SMCV00441    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
James Rivers
Insurance Co. v. Alexis Alvelo, Case No. 24SMCV00441
Hearing Date:
August 02, 2024
James River
Insurance Co’s Motion to Compel Arbitration - UNOPPOSED
 
James River
Insurance Co. (“JRIC”) brings an uninsured motorist claim against Alvelo based
on a motor vehicle accident on February 24, 2017. JRIC moves to compel
arbitration, arguing the matter should be submitted to binding arbitration
pursuant to Insurance Code § 11580.2(f) and CCP §128, et seq. No opposition has
been filed. 
 
Under California law, the trial court has
authority to compel arbitration pursuant to CCP §1281.2 where a written
agreement for such arbitration exists and one of the parties refuses to
arbitrate.¿ Specifically, the statute provides that, “[o]n petition of a party
to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement arbitrate the
controversy exists.”¿ 
 
“[T]he petitioner bears the burden of proving
the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the
evidence . . . .”¿¿Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc.¿(2007) 149
Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284¿(Guiliano).¿“In determining whether an
arbitration agreement applies to a specific dispute, the court may examine only
the agreement itself and the complaint filed by the party refusing arbitration
[citation]. The court should attempt to give effect to the parties' intentions,
in light of the usual and ordinary meaning of the contractual language and
the¿circumstances under which the agreement was made.” Weeks v. Crow¿(1980)
113 Cal.App.3d 350, 353.¿ “To determine whether a contractual arbitration
clause requires arbitration of a particular controversy, the controversy is
first identified and the issue is whether that controversy is within the scope
of the contractual arbitration clause.” Titolo¿v. Cano¿(2007) 157
Cal.App.4th 310, 316. 
 
“[A] party opposing the petition bears the
burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its
defense. [Citation.] In these summary proceedings, the trial court sits as a
trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary
evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court's discretion, to
reach a final determination.” Giuliano, supra, at 1284. 
 
JRIC requests an
order compelling arbitration. The action arises out of Alvelo’s uninsured
motorist claim against JRIC. Vahdat Decl. ¶ 2. At the time of the accident,
Alvelo was using Uber for ride-sharing services as an independent driver. Id.
¶ 3.  JRIC provides a copy of the
parties' agreement which states: 
 
a.      
If
we and an "insured" disagree whether the "insured" is
legally entitled to recover damages from the owner or driver of an
"uninsured motor vehicle" or do not agree as to the amount of damages
that are recoverable by that "insured", the disagreement will be
settled by arbitration. Such arbitration may be initiated by a written demand
for arbitration made by either party. The arbitration shall be conducted by a
single neutral arbitrator. However, disputes concerning coverage under this
endorsement may not be arbitrated. Each party will bear the expenses of the
arbitrator equally. Id.; Exh. A. 
 
Alvelo does not file an opposition. JRIC satisfied tis
burden under CCP §1281.2. The agreement covers the action because a dispute
exists between the parties regarding the uninsured motorist’s claim. Since an
agreement to arbitrate exists and there are no defenses to enforcement, the
motion is GRANTED.
JRIC’s counsel states in February 2024, the parties
agreed to arbitrate with Hon. Benny Osorio. Vahdat Decl. ¶ 7; Exh. C. Under
Code of Civil Procedure § 1281.4, the court stays the proceedings pending the
resolution of plaintiff’s claims through arbitration. GRANTED. 