 Case Number:  23STCV08447    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  20
Tentative Ruling
Judge Kevin C. Brazile

Department 20

Hearing Date:                         Thursday, October 12,
2023 
Case Name:                             Liliana A. v.
Universal Background Screening, Inc.
Case No.:                                23STCV08447
Motion:                                  Motion to
Compel Arbitration
Moving Party:                         Defendant Pluto
Acquisition Opco LLC dba Universal Background
27 Screening (erroneously sued and served as Universal
Background Screening, Inc.) 
Responding Party:                  Plaintiff Liliana A.
Notice:                                    OK

 

 
Ruling:                                    The Motion
to Compel Arbitration is CONTINUED.
 
Moving Party to
give notice.
 
If counsel do not submit on the tentative,
they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person
due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

 

 
BACKGROUND
This
is an employment action. On April 17, 2023, Plaintiff Liliana A filed a
complaint against Defendant Pluto Acquisition Opco LLC dba Universal Background
Screening alleging causes of action regarding her employment with Defendant.
On
May 25, 2023, Defendant filed a motion to compel arbitration. On August 28,
2023, Defendant filed an amended motion.
On
September 29, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition.
On
October 5, 2023, Defendant filed a reply. 
DISCUSSION
Evidentiary
Objections
            The Court SUSTAINS Plaintiff’s
evidentiary objections to the Declaration of Alan W. Faigin no. 1. 
Motion
to Compel Arbitration
On
a motion to compel arbitration, the moving party has the burden of establishing
the existence of a valid arbitration agreement and that the dispute is covered
by the agreement, and the opposing party has the burden of proving a ground for
denial (e.g., fraud, unconscionability, etc.). (Rosenthal v. Great
Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413; Ruiz v. Moss
Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 842 [“The petitioner
bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by a
preponderance of the evidence, while a party opposing the petition bears the
burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its
defense”].) 
“California
has a strong public policy in favor of arbitration and any doubts regarding the
arbitrability of a dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.” (Coast
Plaza Doctors Hospital v. Blue Cross of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th
677, 686.) “This strong policy has resulted in the general rule that
arbitration should be upheld unless it can be said with assurance that an
arbitration clause is not susceptible to an interpretation covering the
asserted dispute.” (Ibid. [internal quotations omitted].) This is in
accord with the liberal federal policy favoring arbitration agreements under
the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”), which governs all agreements to arbitrate
in contracts “involving interstate commerce.” (9 U.S.C. § 2, et seq.; Higgins
v. Superior Court (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1247.)  
“Thus,
under both the FAA and California law, ‘arbitration agreements are valid,
irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at law or in
equity for the revocation of any contract.’” (Higgins v. Superior Court,
supra, 140 Cal.App.4th at p. 1247, citing Armendariz v. Foundation
Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 98 (“Armendariz”).)  
“A
trial court must grant a petition to compel arbitration ‘if it determines that
an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists.’ There is, however, ‘no
public policy in favor of forcing arbitration of issues the parties have not
agreed to arbitrate.’ Thus, in ruling on a motion to compel arbitration, the
court must first determine whether the parties actually agreed to arbitrate the
dispute.” (Mendez v. Mid-Wilshire Health Care Center (2013) 220
Cal.App.4th 534, 541 (citations omitted).) 
Defendant
seeks to compel arbitration of this matter based on an arbitration agreement
purportedly signed by Plaintiff. as a component of her employment. Plaintiff
argues that the subject agreement is unenforceable because (1) the Federal
Arbitration Act (“FAA”) does not apply pursuant to California Labor Code
section 432.6; 2) Defendant has not satisfied its burden in demonstrating the
existence of a fully executed arbitration agreement; and (3) the arbitration
agreement is unconscionable. 
Applicability
of the FAA
1.    
Relationship to Interstate Commerce 
Plaintiff
argues that the FAA does not apply to her claims because they are founded in
the
Fair
Employment and Housing Act (FEHA) and not based in federal law, and the FAA is
not
referenced
in the Arbitration Agreement.
The
parties’ agreement makes no mention of the FAA. Indeed, it identifies the
jurisdiction of the Superior Court of California, County of San Diego for the
purposes of any order necessary to carry out the provisions of the arbitration
agreement. Yet in reply, Defendant argues that the FAA governs because “the
economic activity is subject to federal control,” which is sufficient to
establish a relationship to interstate commerce. (Reply, at p. 1-2.)  
An
arbitration clause is governed by the FAA if the agreement is a contract
“evidencing a transaction involving commerce.” (9 U.S.C. § 2.) Courts “broadly
construe” this phrase, because the FAA “embodies Congress’ intent to provide
for the enforcement of arbitration agreements within the full reach of the
Commerce Clause.” (Giuliano v. Inland Empire Pers., Inc. (2007) 149
Cal.App.4th 1276, 1286.) In the context of an employment agreement, this means
that the Court looks only to whether the parties’ relationship “in fact”
involved interstate commerce, as opposed to whether they contemplated that it
would: 
In determining whether the employment agreement
involved interstate commerce, the parties’ subjective intent is not the
determining factor. “[E]videncing a transaction involving commerce” (9 U.S.C. §
2) simply means that “the ‘transaction’ in fact ‘involv[es]’ interstate
commerce, even if the parties did not contemplate an interstate commerce
connection.” (Allied–Bruce Terminix Companies v. Dobson (1995)
513 U.S. 265, 281, 115 S.Ct. 834, 130 L.Ed.2d 753 (Allied–Bruce ).) 
(Id.
149 Cal.App.4th at 1286.) 
Defendant
has the “burden to demonstrate FAA coverage by declarations and other
evidence.” (Hoover v. American Income Life Ins. Co. (2012) 206
Cal.App.4th 1193, 1207.) Here, Defendant has met that burden with evidence that
Plaintiff sold Defendant’s services and received commissions for the following
customers located outside of the State of California: Sigma blood Systems LLC
(Oklahoma), The Williams Institute for Ethics and Management (Arizona), Preece
Church and Associates (Texas), CruiseOne – Rochester NY (New York), and
Spectrum Talent Delivery (Massachusetts). (Galvez Decl. ¶ 10.) This shows that
Plaintiff dealt with clients beyond those located in California. 
Thus,
the Court finds that the FAA governs the parties’ agreement. Having reached
that conclusion, the Court now considers which of Plaintiff’s claims must be
arbitrated.   
2.    
FAA Preemption of Labor Code section
432.6
Usually,
the process of determining whether an arbitration agreement covers a dispute is
straight forward. “‘In determining whether an arbitration agreement applies to
a specific dispute, the court may examine only the agreement itself and the
complaint filed by the party refusing arbitration.’” (Rice v. Downs (2016)
248 Cal.App.4th 175, 185.) Here, however, the parties dispute whether
California Labor Code section 432.6 (“Section 432.6”) invalidates the
Arbitration Agreement. The Court finds that while Section 432.6 affects the
scope of the Arbitration Agreement, it does not invalidate the entire agreement.  
On
October 10, 2019, California Governor Gavin Newsom signed into law California
Assembly Bill 51 (“AB 51”). (Chamber of Commerce of United States v. Bonta
(9th Cir. 2021) 13 F.4th 766, 771 (“Chamber of Commerce”).) AB 51 took
effect on January 1, 2020. In enacting AB 51, the California Legislature wanted
to (1) “ensure that all persons have the full benefit of the rights, forums,
and procedures established in the [FEHA] …  and the Labor Code,” (2)
“ensure that individuals are not retaliated against for refusing to consent to
the waiver of those rights and procedures,” and (3) “ensure that any contract
relating to those rights and procedures be entered into as a matter of
voluntary consent, not coercion.” (2019 Cal. Legis. Serv. Ch. 711 (A.B. 51) (WEST),
§ 1, subds. (a) and (b).) Therefore, the Legislature added Section 432.6 to the
California Labor Code.  
Section
432.6 provides in relevant part:  
A person shall not, as a condition of employment,
continued employment, or the receipt of any employment-related benefit, require
any applicant for employment or any employee to waive any right, forum, or
procedure for a violation of any provision of the [FEHA] or this [Labor Code],
including the right to file and pursue a civil action or a complaint with, …
any court … of any alleged violation. 
(Lab.
Code, § 432.6, subd. (a).) 
Section
432.6 is relevant in the instant action because Plaintiff brings her third
cause of action for retaliation under FEHA, and her second cause of action for retaliation
under the Labor Code. The issue is whether the Arbitration Agreement requires
Plaintiff to waive any right, forum, or procedure for the alleged FEHA and
Labor Code violations. If it does, then the Court has to determine whether
Defendant required Plaintiff to enter into the Arbitration Agreement as a
condition of her employment, continued employment, or the receipt of any
employment-related benefit. If the answer to that question is yes, then
Defendant violated Labor Code section 432.6.  
The
Court finds that the Arbitration Agreement does not require Plaintiff to waive her
right to pursue this civil action against Defendant for the alleged FEHA and
Labor Code. The Arbitration Agreement is meant to cover, “all claims relating
to [Plaintiff’s] employment with the Company, meaning that all
such claims will not be decided in court, before a judge or jury but, as is set
forth below, but by a neutral arbitrator selected by the Parties.” (Motion,
Exhib. A, ¶ 1.) Because Plaintiff’s FEHA and Labor Code causes of action arise
out of her employment, her dispute for those causes of action fall under the
scope of the Arbitration Agreement. However, the Arbitration Agreement does not
make arbitration the ultimate destination for resolving any dispute covered by
the Arbitration Agreement. The Agreement provides: “The decision of the arbitrator
shall be final and binding on both Parties and there shall be no right to
appeal it nor shall there be any judicial review of it, with the exception
of the limited judicial review set forth below.” (Motion, Exhib. A, ¶ 1.)
Indeed, the agreement allows for judicial review as follows: “The arbitrator’s
decision shall be in writing and shall set forth the arbitrator’s findings and
conclusions on which the decision is based and shall be sufficiently detailed
to allow the limited judicial review authorized by this arbitration provision.
The arbitrator shall render and serve on the Parties, within forty-five days of
the conclusion of the arbitration hearing, his or her written decision.” (Id.,
Exhib. A, ¶ 1(f).) Thus, the agreement does not require Plaintiff to waive
other rights, forums, or procedures available. Accordingly, the Court need not
determine whether the arbitration agreement was presented to Plaintiff as a
condition of her employment.
Therefore,
the FAA applies since Defendant has shown the parties’ relationship involved
interstate commerce and that the FAA preempts Labor Code section 432.6.
Existence
of Arbitration Agreement
Under
California law, “the party seeking arbitration bears the burden of proving the
existence of an arbitration agreement.” (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc.,
supra, 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 842.)  
Here,
Defendant fails to satisfy its initial prima facie burden of showing an
agreement to arbitrate in the moving papers. Indeed, such evidence is brought
in its reply. To prove the existence of an arbitration agreement, Defendant
submits the declaration of Michele Galvez, the Director of Human Resources of
Pluto Acquisition OpCo LLC. (Reply, Galvez Decl.) Galvez is responsible for
overseeing the recruitment, hiring, and onboarding of new employees and working
with Defendant’s personnel files in which employee documents are maintained.
(Galvez Decl. ¶ 2.) On January 7, 2022, Plaintiff signed and returned the
written offer of employment, Arbitration Agreement, and Non-Disclosure
Agreement via AdobeSign. (Id. ¶¶ 6-8.) A true and correct copy of the January
7, 2022 email is attached to as Exhibit A and the signed Arbitration Agreement
is attached as Exhibits B and C. (Id. ¶ 6, Exhibs. A, B, C.) Galvez
testifies that the Plaintiff’s signature on her passport and her hand written
signature on the written offer of employment and Non-Disclosure Agreement
matches the signature on the Arbitration Agreement. (Id. ¶¶ 7-8, Exhib.
F.) Galvez also attaches true and correct screenshots of the AdobeSign
Certification of Plaintiff’s signature on the Arbitration Agreement and
AdobeSign Audit Report which reflects the dates and times when the documents
were created, sent to Plaitniff, when she viewed, when she signed, and when the
signature process was completed. (Id. ¶ 6, Exhibs. D, E.) 
“A
party’s acceptance of an agreement to arbitrate may be express, as where a
party signs the agreement.” (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market
Development (US), LLC¿(2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236 (“Pinnacle”).) Plaintiff’s
signature appears on this agreement, indicating that she had read it in its
entirety and agreed to its terms and conditions. (Motion, Exhib. A.) Defendant’s
Director of Human Resources indicates that Plaintiff signed the agreement on
January 11, 2022 as evidenced by the AdobeSign Audit Report. (Reply, Galvez
Decl. ¶ 6, Exhib. E.) Since Defendant brings this evidence in reply, Plaintiff
has not been given a sufficient opportunity to rebut Defendant’s showing of the
existence of an arbitration agreement. Plaintiff produces evidence to challenge
the authenticity of the agreement—by testifying under oath that she does not
recall signing the arbitration agreement and that she would not sign any
document without fully reading it. (Acosta Decl. ¶ 6.) Although this is
sufficient to rebut a prima facie burden, Defendant’s evidence in reply is
sufficient to prove the existence of the arbitration agreement by a
preponderance of the evidence. However, since Defendant improperly brought new
evidence for the first time in its reply, this prejudices Plaintiff by
preventing her from properly considering the evidence. Accordingly, the Court
CONTINUES the instant motion to allow Plaintiff to present further evidence to
rebut Defendant’s showing that the parties actually entered into an arbitration
agreement.
Unconscionability

Plaintiff
argues that the arbitration agreement is also unenforceable because it is both
procedurally and substantively unconscionable. “ ‘[U]nconscionability has both
a “procedural” and a “substantive” element,’ the former focusing on “oppression”
or “surprise” due to unequal bargaining power, the latter on “overly harsh” or “one-sided”
’results. [Citation.] ‘The prevailing view is that [procedural and substantive
unconscionability] must both be present in order for a court to exercise its
discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the doctrine of
unconscionability.’ [Citation.] But they need not be present in the same
degree.... [T]he more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less
evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion
that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.” (Armendariz v. Found.
Health Psychcare Servs., Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114.) 
Plaintiff argues that the entire agreement is unenforceable
because it is unconscionable.  
 
1.    
Substantive Unconscionability
 
“A
provision is substantively unconscionable if it ‘involves contract terms that
are so one-sided as to “shock the conscience,” or that impose harsh or
oppressive terms.’ [Citation.] The phrases ‘harsh,’ ‘oppressive,’ and ‘shock
the conscience’ are not synonymous with ‘unreasonable.’ Basing an
unconscionability determination on the reasonableness of a contract provision
would inject an inappropriate level of judicial subjectivity into the analysis.
¿‘With a concept as nebulous as “unconscionability” it is important that courts
not be thrust in the paternalistic role of intervening to change contractual
terms that the parties have agreed to merely because the court believes the
terms are unreasonable. The terms must shock the conscience.’
[Citations.]”  
 
(Walnut Producers of California v. Diamond Foods, Inc.
(2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 634, 647-648.) 
Where a party seeks to
arbitrate nonwaivable statutory civil rights in the workplace, such as the FEHA and Labor Code claims involved here, there
are “five minimum requirements for the lawful arbitration of such rights” under
a mandatory employment arbitration agreement:  
Such an
arbitration agreement is lawful if it “(1) provides for neutral arbitrators,
(2) provides for more than minimal discovery, (3) requires a written award, (4)
provides for all of the types of relief that would otherwise be available in
court, and (5) does not require employees to pay either unreasonable costs or
any arbitrators’ fees or expenses as a condition of access to the arbitration
forum.  
 
(Armendariz
v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal. 4th 83, 102.) 
 
As to the first requirement
for netural arbitrators, the Agreement provides that the arbitration will be
conducted before “a neutral arbitrator selected by the Parties.” (Galvez Decl.,
Exhib. B, Arbitration Agreement ¶ 1.) Thus, this requirement is satisfied. 
As to the second
requirement, case law provides that: “[a]dequate discovery is
indispensable for the vindication of statutory claims. (Citation omitted.)
“‘[A]dequate’ discovery does not mean unfettered discovery ….” (Citation
omitted.) And parties may “agree to something less than the full panoply of
discovery provided in Code of Civil Procedure section 1283.05.” (Citation
omitted.)¿However, arbitration agreements must “ensure minimum standards of
fairness” so employees can vindicate their public rights. (Citation omitted).”
(Fitz v. NCR Corp. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 702, 715-16 (bold emphasis
added).) Here, the Agreement provides that the
arbitrator “shall give to the Parties an adequate period of time to conduct
discovery prior to the arbitration hearing.” (Galvez Decl., Exhib. B, Arbitration Agreement ¶ 1(e).) Thus, the agreement provides for more than minimal
discovery. 
As to the third requirement
regarding a written award, the agreement provides that “[t]he arbitrator’s
decision shall be in writing and shall set forth the arbitrator’s findings and
conclusions on which the decision is based and shall be sufficiently detailed
to allow the limited judicial review authorized by this arbitration provision.
The arbitrator shall render and serve on the Parties, within forty-five days of
the conclusion of the arbitration hearing, his or her written decision.” (Galvez
Decl., Exhib. B, Arbitration Agreement ¶
1(f).) Thus, the agreement provides for a
written award. 
As to the fourth requirement
providing for all types of relief available in court, the agreement provides
that “[t]he arbitrator shall have the power to give all remedies available
under said law, including but not limited to, reinstatement, compensatory
damages for wage loss, loss of earning capacity, front and back pay, civil
penalties, provisional remedies, preliminary and permanent injunction, general
damage, punitive damages, interest, attorney’s fees as authorized by the law, costs
and any other legal remedy available under the substantive law governing the
dispute.” (Galvez Decl., Exhib. B, Arbitration
Agreement ¶ 1(d).) Thus, the agreement provides for all types of relief
available in court. 
As to the fifth requirement
for fees, costs, or expenses, the agreement provides that “[c]osts that are
unique to arbitration shall be paid according to the rules set forth by the
California Supreme Court in Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal. 4th 83 and the determination as to the
payment of such costs shall be made by the arbitrator which
determination shall be final and binding.” (Galvez
Decl., Exhib. B, Arbitration Agreement ¶
1(h).) This is sufficient to show that the agreement does not require Plaintiff
to pay unreasonable costs or any arbitrator’s fees or expenses as a condition
to access to arbitration. Further, to the extent that there is any provision which
violates California law governing the costs that may be imposed on an employee
in arbitration, Defendant’s obligation to pay the entirety of those costs would
be implied. (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at 106, 107, 113.) As such, the Armendariz requirements are satisfied,
and the agreement is not substantively unconscionable. 
2.    
Procedural Unconscionability
Because
Plaintiff has not shown substantive unconscionability, the Court need not reach
procedural unconscionability. Even if the Court reached Plaintiff’s claim of
procedural unconscionability, however, Plaintiff has only made a slight showing
of procedural unconscionability, which would require a much stronger showing of
substantive unconscionability than is possible here. Plaintiff argues that the
agreement is procedurally unconscionable because the arbitration agreement was
a mandatory condition for employment. This presents a minimal degree of
procedural unconscionability: 
“The procedural element of the unconscionability
analysis concerns the manner in which the contract was negotiated and the
circumstances of the parties at that time. [Citation.] The element focuses on
oppression or surprise. [Citation.] ‘Oppression arises from an inequality of
bargaining power that results in no real negotiation and an absence of
meaningful choice.’ [Citation.] Surprise is defined as ‘ “the extent to which
the supposedly agreed-upon terms of the bargain are hidden in the prolix
printed form drafted by the party seeking to enforce the disputed terms.” ’
[Citation.]” (Citation omitted.) 

Plaintiffs claim the Agreement is procedurally unconscionable because it is an
adhesion contract. An adhesion contract is “a standardized contract … imposed
upon the subscribing party without an opportunity to negotiate the terms.”
(Citation omitted.) “The term signifies a standardized contract, which, imposed
and drafted by the party of superior bargaining strength, relegates to the
subscribing party only the opportunity to adhere to the contract or reject it.
[Citation.]” (Citation omitted.) 
 
The California Supreme Court has consistently stated that “‘[t]he procedural
element of an unconscionable contract generally takes the form of a contract of
adhesion … .’ ” (Citations omitted.) 
 
“Whether the challenged provision is within a contract of adhesion pertains to
the oppression aspect of procedural unconscionability. A contract of adhesion
is “imposed and drafted by the party of superior bargaining strength” and
“relegates to the subscribing party only the opportunity to adhere to the
contract or reject it.” (Citations omitted.) “[A]bsent unusual
circumstances, use of a contract of adhesion establishes a minimal degree of
procedural unconscionability notwithstanding the availability of market
alternatives.” (Citation omitted.) 
(Walnut
Producers of California, supra, 187 Cal.App.4th at 645-46 (bold
emphasis added).)  
Plaintiff
also argues this agreement is procedurally unconscionable because it did not
give her the ability to “opt out” of its provisions. As discussed above, this
type of “take it or leave it” agreement does suggest a degree of procedural
unconscionability. (Bakersfield College v. California Community College
Athletic Assn. (2019) 41 Cal.App.5th 753, 763 [concluding that the
uncontroverted evidence that the College had “no ability to individually
negotiate the terms of the contract at the time it was made, it could not
opt-out of the arbitration provision, and it thus had no meaningful choice but
to accept the arbitration provision” supported a finding of procedural
unconscionability].) 
Plaintiff
also argues the agreement is procedurally unconscionable because Defendant
failed to provide the rules of the arbitration. This likewise supports a
finding of only a slight degree of procedural unconscionability. (Bigler v.
Harker School (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 727, 737.) Ultimately, because
Plaintiff has not shown that the agreement is substantively unconscionable,
this degree of procedural unconscionability is insufficient to render the
entire agreement unenforceable.
Although
the FAA preempts Labor Code section 432.6 and there is no showing of
unconscionability, the Court CONTINUES the hearing on this motion to determine
whether the agreement is enforceable, specifically on whether there was an
existence to arbitrate. 
CONCLUSION
            The Motion to Compel Arbitration is CONTINUED.
Moving
party to give notice. 
            If counsel do not submit on the
tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than
in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
