  Case Number:  22STCV32363    Hearing Date:   February 26, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING
DATE:                 Monday, February 26,
2024
CASE
NUMBER:                   22STCV32363
CASE NAME:                        Boyle Flats Food & Beverage, Inc., et al. v. Alex
Koons  
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiffs/ Cross-Defendants Boyle
Flats Food & Beverage, Inc., and Tad Yenawine
OPPOSING PARTY:             Cross-Complainant Alex Koons
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Demurrer with Motion to Strike Third Amended
Cross-Complaint
OPPOSITION:                        7 February 204
REPLY:                                  20
February 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to the
TACC is overruled. Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants’
motion to strike is granted as to Paragraph 9 without leave to amend and denied
as to the second cause of action in the TACC. 
 
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants
to give notice. 

                                                                                                                                    

 
Background
 
This action
arises from the formation by Plaintiff Tad Yenawine (“Yenawine”) and Defendant
Alex Koons (“Koons”) of a California entity, Plaintiff Boyle Flats Food and
Beverage, Inc dba Purgatory Pizza (“BFFB”). Plaintiffs and Defendant operated a
restaurant business called “Purgatory Pizza.” 
 
The
Complaint alleges Defendant took monies from Plaintiff BFFB’s bank accounts for
expenses to open his own pizza restaurant in 2020. The Complaint alleges
Defendant applied for and received an Emergency Incident Disaster Loan (“EIDL”)
in BFFB’s name which was transferred to Defendant’s own account.  Defendant allegedly made no payments for the
EIDL afterwards. The Complaint also alleges Defendant abandoned his duties as
manager of Purgatory Pizza and continued to pay himself his salary.  
Plaintiffs’
Complaint alleges four causes of action: (1) breach of contract; (2)
conversion; (3) fraud; and (4) breach of fiduciary duty.  
 
On
November 29, 2022, Defendant Koons filed a Cross-Complaint (“CC”) against Plaintiffs.
On February 09, 2023, the court sustained the demurrer to the CC with leave to
amend. On April 24, 2023, the Defendant filed an Amended Cross-Complaint but
withdrew it on May 17, 2023, and was granted leave to file an amended
complaint. 
 
The Second Amended Cross-Complaint (“SACC”)
alleges four causes of action: (1) dissolution of corporation; (2) derivative
claim for breach of fiduciary duty; (3) individual claim for breach of
fiduciary duty
against Cross-Defendant Yenawine; and (4) reimbursement of business
expenses. 
 
On October 9, 2023, the court overruled Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants’
demurrer to the first, second, and third causes of action, and sustained the
demurrer as to the fourth cause of action with leave to amend. Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants
motion to strike was granted as to Paragraph 9 with leave to amend. 
 
On October 23, 2023, Defendant/Cross-Complainant filed
the operative Third Amended Cross-Complaint (“TACC”) alleging the same cause of
action as the SACC. 
 
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants now demurrer to the TACC and
have filed a motion to strike portions of the TACC. Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Koons opposed the Motion. The matter is now before the court. 
 
Discussion
 
I.         Legal
Standard
 
A.        Demurrer 
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are
apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which the court
may take judicial notice. (CCP, § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v.
Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)¿“To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege
facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might
eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.”¿(C.A. v.
William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 872.)¿For the purpose of testing the
sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all
material facts properly pleaded.¿ (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992)
2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.)¿A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.”¿(Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67
Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿ 
 
B.        Motion
to Strike 
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve
and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof. (CCP §
435(b)(1); CRC, rule 3.1322(b).) The court may, upon a motion or at any time in
its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP § 436(a)-(b); Stafford
v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not
essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be
stricken out or disregarded”].)¿¿¿¿ 
 
C.        Leave to Amend 
 
“Where the defect raised by a motion to strike or by demurrer is
reasonably capable of cure, leave to amend is routinely and liberally granted
to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the defect in question.” (CLD
Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.)
The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿¿¿ 
 
II.        Demurrer
 
A.        No
Meet and Confer Declaration
 
CCP §§ 430.41 and 435.5
state that a party filing a demurrer or a motion to strike “shall meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party who filed the
pleading[.]” Both sections 430.41 and 435.5 mandate that the moving party file
and serve a declaration attesting to the moving party’s meet and confer efforts
along with the demurrer and motion to strike. (CCP, § 430.41(a)(3),
435.5(a)(3).) 


Here, Plaintiff has failed to meet this obligation as no
declaration has been filed reflecting Plaintiff’s attempts to meet and confer
efforts. The court has the discretion to continue the hearing and order the
parties to meet and confer and order Plaintiff to submit a declaration. (See
Dumas v. Los Angeles County Bd. of Supervisors (2020) 45 Cal. App. 5th
348, 355.) Instead, the court has decided to address Plaintiff’s demurrer and
motion to strike on the merits.
 
            B.        Second
Cause of Action – Derivative Breach of Fiduciary Duty           
 
Plaintiff
demurs to the second cause of action on the basis that Defendant’s derivative
claims fails because he did not comply with Corp. Code § 800(b)(2): 
 
(b) No
action may be instituted or maintained in right of any domestic or foreign
corporation by any holder of shares or of voting trust certificates of the
corporation unless both of the following conditions exist:
 
[ . .
. ]
 
(2)
The plaintiff alleges in the complaint with particularity plaintiff's efforts
to secure from the board such action as plaintiff desires, or the reasons for
not making such effort, and alleges further that plaintiff has either informed
the corporation or the board in writing of the ultimate facts of each cause of
action against each defendant or delivered to the corporation or the board a
true copy of the complaint which plaintiff proposes to file.


(Corp. Code, § 800(b)(2).)
 
Plaintiffs assert that the TACC fails to allege
with the requisite particularity that Defendant presented to the board of
directors his request for redress of injuries and that the board refused. The
TACC alleges: 
 
23.
On September 30, 2022, Alex, through his counsel, issued a letter to Tad,
informing him, among other things, that his actions in terminating Alex and in
usurping all control over
Purgatory Pizza were in violation of California law and the company's corporate
documents. Alex demanded that Tad (i) correct his fraudulent and false
submissions to the Secretary of State records to properly reflect him as an
officer and director of Purgatory Pizza; (ii) confirm that Alex is still the
active General Manager of Purgatory Pizza; (iii) reverse all other unauthorized
actions, including, without limitation, with respect to bank accounts, payroll,
and all other company accounts; (iv) restore access to the Company premises;
(v) take no further unauthorized and/or unilateral actions; and (vi) take no
action to hinder or undermine Alex's efforts in performing his roles as an
officer, director, and as the General Manager of Purgatory Pizza.
 
24. However, in response to this
correspondence, Tad purported to file a Complaint on behalf of himself and
Purgatory Pizza against Alex. As far as Alex is aware, this action was
commenced at the sole behest of Tad, which Alex contends is in violation of California
law and the company’s corporate documents, as described above. The Complaint
alleges wrongdoing as against Alex in connection with funds that at all times
were understood by the parties to be loans, which were recorded on the
company's books as loans, and which are being repaid as loans from Alex to the
company. Based on the trajectory of the parties' dispute leading up to this
litigation, as well as the Complaint's meritless allegations, Alex believes
that the Complaint was filed solely for Tad's personal purposes, to attempt to
exert control over Alex while negotiating a buyout of his ownership interest.
 
25. Alex remains essentially blocked
from any and all participation in the business, with Tad continuing to
illegally assert himself as the sole decision maker of Purgatory Pizza.
 
(TACC ¶¶ 23-25.)
 
The court finds the allegations above
are sufficient to show that Defendant complied with the requirement to present
a complaint to the board before filing a derivative action under Corp. Code
section 800(b)(2). The TACC alleges that Plaintiff Yenawine and Defendant Koons
are equal owners of Purgatory Pizza  and
officers and directors of the company until Plaintiff informed Defendant that
he was the sole director of the company. (TACC ¶¶ 6, 14.) Based
on these allegations, the fact that Defendant, via his counsel, informed
Plaintiff about the injuries he sought to be redressed, is sufficient to show
that Defendant informed the board before filing this action. 
 
On
reply, Plaintiff takes the new position that Plaintiff Yenawine and
Plaintiff BFFB did respond
to Defendant’s September 30, 2022, letter by filing this action and that the
response strips Defendant of the right to pursue a derivative action. (Reply at
p. 4:15-19.) Plaintiff fails to cite any legal authority to support this proposition
regarding standing and fails to point any language in Corp. Code § 800 that
supports such a proposition. While Plaintiff cites authority confirming that
the business judgment rule creates a rebuttable presumption that the actions of
the board are correct, the business judgment rule is an affirmative defense
that Plaintiff must plead and prove and is not at issue in this Motion. (Desaigoudar
v. Meyercord (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 173, 180.) Whether Defendant
mismanaged the business and Plaintiff was entitled to strip Defendant of his
responsibilities under the business judgment rule remains a disputed question
of fact not subject to demurrer. 
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer to the first cause of action is overruled. 
 
            C.        Fourth
Cause of Action – Reimbursement  
 
Pursuant to Lab. Code §
2802(a): “[a]n employer shall indemnify his or her employee for all necessary
expenditures or losses incurred by the employee in direct consequence of the
discharge of his or her duties, or of his or her obedience to the directions of
the employer, even though unlawful, unless the employee, at the time of obeying
the directions, believed them to be unlawful.”¿¿“The purpose of this statute is ‘to prevent employers
from passing their operating expenses on to their employees.’ [Citations.]” (Cochran
v. Schwan's Home Service, Inc. (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 1137, 1144.) 
 
The
TACC alleges that BFFB “had a routine business practice of authorizing and
issuing business credit cards to its employees so that they are able to make
purchases necessary for the business” and BFFB would reimburse its employees.
(TACC ¶ 47.)
 
As
general manager for BFFB, it was Defendant’s duty to purchase necessary
supplies and inventory so BFFB issued to Defendant an “American Express
Business Card for Boyle Flats Food and Beverage, Inc. dba Purgatory Pizza under
his name so that he could make purchases for the business needs of Purgatory
Pizza.” (TACC ¶ 47.) BFFB also authorized the Defendant to use the American
Business Credit Card for business expenditures. (TACC ¶ 47.) With the credit
card issued under his name, Defendant incurred approximately $22,461.20 in
expenses that were necessary and reasonable for the business and that were
authorized by BFFB due to Defendant’s role as General Manager, but Defendant
was never reimbursed for these expenses. (TACC ¶ 48.)
 
Plaintiff
argues that because Defendant was the general manager, the one responsible for
the business expenses, any failure of reimbursement lies with Defendant. (See
TACC ¶¶ 8, 11.) Even accepting that Defendant was an owner and employer, this
does not absolve Plaintiffs of any responsibility for failure to pay
reimbursement costs because Plaintiff is also an owner and employer and is
jointly liable for any Labor Code violations. Plaintiff has failed to cite any
legal authority to support the proposition that Labor Code § 2802 violation
cannot be brought by a co-employer against another co-employer while the
co-employer was discharging his duties. Moreover, Defendant has sufficiently
alleged that the purchases were necessary for supplies and inventory. (TACC ¶¶
47, 48.) Whether Defendant will be able to prove the facts outlined above is
irrelevant to ruling on a demurrer. (See Stevens v. Superior Court
(1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 605, 609–61.) If Plaintiffs seek to show that they played
no role in deciding who and how much to reimburse employees because the
day-to-day operations are overseen by Defendant, Defendant does allege that
Plaintiff Yenawine only
acquiesced to a few of the reimbursements. (TACC ¶¶ 8, 11(A.) Whether this
allegation is true and whether Plaintiffs will be able to prove they were not
responsible for reimbursements remains a disputed issue of fact not subject to
demurrer. 
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer to the fourth cause of action is overruled. 
 
III.      Motion to Strike
 
Plaintiffs move to strike
the following from Defendant’s TAC: 
 
·      
Entire Paragraph 9 from the TACC
·      
The entire second cause of action on the
basis that Defendant Koons has no legal standing to bring a derivative cause of
action. 
 
Paragraph 9 relates to the
allegation that Plaintiff Yenawine
“displayed a gnome garden statue on his front porch that
appeared to be hanging by a noose” and that such conduct caused Purgatory Pizza
backlash with accusations of racism and decreased sales until Plaintiff Koons posted
an online apology on behalf of Purgatory Pizza. 
(TACC ¶ 9.) Defendant argues that Paragraph 9 is necessary to show that
despite Plaintiff and Defendant being equal owners, they could not agree on the
management of the affairs of BFFB, as required for a claim for involuntary
dissolution under Corp. Code § 1800(b)(2). 
 
Plaintiff Tad argues that the
allegation in Paragraph 9 refers to conduct that occurred in Plaintiff Tad’s
own home and is not one of six grounds for dissolution outlined in section
1800(b)(2). The court agrees and finds that the TACC alleges other instances to
support a claim for involuntary dissolution, such as Plaintiff Tad not observing
corporate formalities, not complying with accounting procedures, and failing to
maintain proper books and records. (TACC ¶¶ 7, 8.) Disagreements arose with Plaintiff
Tad’s attempts to exert greater control over BFFB and his alleged uses of
company funds to pay for personal expenses and have his personal accountant
take over the services of Purgatory Pizza. (TACC ¶ 11.)
 
Accordingly, the court
agrees that Paragraph 9 adds nothing to claims in the TACC other than to seek
to embarrass Plaintiff Tad for conduct that occurred in his home which
allegedly caused BFFB backlash. However, such conduct is not relevant to the
claims in the TACC. Accordingly, the court grants the motion to strike
Paragraph 9 without leave to amend. 
 
Plaintiffs insist that they
can strike an entire cause of action.  This
is improper and would defeat the purpose of filing a demurrer and give parties
two bites at the apple. Plaintiffs attempt to do that here by arguing that the Defendant
lacks standing to bring the second cause of action because he did not present
his claim to the board as required by Corp. Code § 800(b)(2). 
 
“The motion to strike is widely used to
challenge portions of causes of action seeking punitive damages.” (PH II, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th
1680, 1683.) “Although it is ‘improper
for a court to strike
a whole cause
of action of a pleading
under [section 436],’
[citation], or to eliminate a ‘matter which is essential to a cause of action,’
[citation], it may strike anything else
it determines to be irrelevant.” (Los Altos El Granada Investors
v. City of Capitola (9th Cir. 2009) 583 F.3d 674, 687; see also Ferraro v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 509, 529
[objection that complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action is ground for a general demurrer, not a motion to strike].)


Because it would be improper for the court to
strike an entire cause of action, especially because Plaintiff has already demurred
to that cause of action, the motion to strike the second cause of action is
denied. 
 
Conclusion
 
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants’
demurrer to the TACC is overruled. Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants’
motion to strike is granted as to Paragraph 9 without leave to amend and denied
as to the second cause of action in the TACC. 
 
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants
to give notice. 