 Case Number:  21STCV28134    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
Please note: The Court is
unavailable to hear oral argument on the motion this afternoon. If all parties
submit, the tentative ruling will be adopted as the order of the Court. If a
party requests oral argument, the hearing will be continued to either September
30, 2024 or October 2, 2024.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  25, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV28134




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Compliance with Uber Technologies, Inc.’s Deposition Subpoena for
  Production of Business Records to BHAPS




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Uber Technologies, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY:


Non-party
  Doctor Joseph Enayati MC, Inc. dba Beverly Hills Advanced Pain & Spine



 
BACKGROUND
 
On June 20, 2024, Defendant Uber
Technologies, Inc. (“Defendant”) filed the instant motion to compel Beverly
Hills Advanced Pain & Spine (“BHAPS”) to comply with its deposition
subpoena for production of business records. The hearing for this motion was
originally set for August 12, 2024. 
 
Then, on August 5, 2024, Defendant
filed an Amended Notice of Motion with proofs of service showing that counsel
for BHAPS was served notice of the moving papers and setting a new hearing date
for September 25, 2024.
 
Non-party Doctor Joseph Enayati MC,
Inc. dba BHAPS has filed an opposition and requests monetary sanctions. Defendant
replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A party seeking discovery from a person who is not a party
to the action may obtain discovery by oral deposition, written deposition, or
deposition subpoena for production of business records.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2020.010.)¿ A deposition subpoena may command either: (1) only the attendance
and testimony of the deponent, (2) only the production of business records for
copying, or (3) the attendance and testimony of the deponent, as well as the
production of business records, other documents, electronically stored information,
and tangible things.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.)¿  
 
A service of a
deposition subpoena shall be affected a sufficient time in advance of the
deposition to provide the deponent a reasonable opportunity to locate and
produce any designated documents and, where personal attendance is commanded, a
reasonable time to travel to the place of deposition.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2020.220, subd. (a).)¿ Personal service of any deposition subpoena is effective
to require a deponent who is a resident of California to: personally appear and
testify, if the subpoena so specifies; to produce any specified documents; and
to appear at a court session if the subpoena so specifies.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2020.220, subd. (c).)¿ A deponent who disobeys a deposition subpoena may be
punished for contempt without the necessity of a prior order of the court
directing compliance by the witness.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.240.)¿A motion
to compel compliance with a deposition subpoena must be made within 60 days
after completion of the deposition record, the date objections are served, or the
date specified for production, and be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., §2025.480, subd., (b); Board of Registered
Nursing v. Sup.Ct. (Johnson & Johnson) (2021) 59 Cal.App.5th 1011,
1032-1033.)¿ 
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1,
subdivision (a) states, “[i]f a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness
or the production of books, documents, or other things before a court, or at
the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court,
upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon
the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be
heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing
compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare,
including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as
may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive
demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the
person.” 
  
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2,
subdivision (a) states, in relevant part, “. . . in making an order pursuant to
motion made . . . under Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award
the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the
motion, including reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was
made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification . . . .” 
 
“In general, ‘any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter,
not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending
action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter
either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.’ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.)
To meet this standard, a party seeking to compel production of records from a
nonparty must articulate specific facts justifying the discovery sought; it may
not rely on mere generalities. [Citation.] In assessing the party's proffered
justification, courts must keep in mind the more limited scope of discovery
available from nonparties.” (Board of Registered Nursing, supra, 59 Cal.App.5th at 1039.)

 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
            The Declaration of Nicholas D.
Brauns, Defendant’s counsel, states the following: “both my colleague, Molly
Humphreys Teas, and I engaged Mr. Mir in extensive meet and confer seeking
compliance with our subpoena.  We
mutually agreed to multiple extensions of the deadline by which to file this
motion, but were unable to agree on the propriety of “Request ‘b’”, the subject
matter of this motion.” (Brauns Decl. ¶ 5.) Therefore, the meet and confer
requirement is met. 
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
The Court declines to rule on Defendant’s evidentiary objections as
they have no effect on the ruling herein. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
On March 1, 2024, Defendant served
a deposition subpoena on BHAPS because it learned that Plaintiff was treating
with BHAPS on a lien basis. (Brauns Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. B.) The subject subpoena
contains 27 topics of production including “all written policies, procedures,
protocols, guidelines for the preparation of billing for [professional services/facility
charges/orthopedic implantable hardware/intra-operative diagnostic services]
for a patient admitted on” various types of accounts. The last three topics
seek production of records for “office policies, procedures, and guidelines for
the negotiation, discounting, and final compromising of the billed amounts” for
Plaintiff’s treatment; coding and billing information to substantiate the
billed charges for Plaintiff’s treatment; and “office policies, procedures, and
guidelines for the negotiation, discounting, and final compromising of the
billed amounts” on Plaintiff’s lien-based patient account. (Ibid.)
 
On March 27, 2024, BHAPS’s counsel
served an objection to the subpoena. (Brauns Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. C.) The objection
states the subpoena requests are overbroad in time and scope, seek irrelevant
information, violate privacy rights of non-party patients, call for the
production of confidential information, and fail to provide notice to non-party
consumers. 
 
According to Defendant’s Separate
Statement, the subject subpoena seeks: “Any and all lien agreements or
contracts between YOU and Downtown L.A. Law Group in the last 10 years.” While
this is not reflected in the copy of the subpoena provided (Brauns Decl. ¶ 3,
Exh. B.), in opposition, BHAPS does not dispute that the subpoena is seeking
this information. 
 
Instead, BHAPS argues that since
Defendant is seeking past personal lien agreements, a consumer notice was
required. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1985.3, subd. (b) [“Prior to the date called for
in the subpoena duces tecum for the production of personal records, the
subpoenaing party shall serve or cause to be served on the consumer whose
records are being sought a copy of the subpoena duces tecum . . . .].) BHAPS
also argues the information requested is irrelevant and violates non-party
privacy rights. 
 
To argue the information is
relevant, Defendant relies on Qaadir v. Figueroa (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th
790, where the court found that evidence that the plaintiff’s attorney referred
him to lien-physicians “was relevant to the question of the reasonable value of
the lien-physicians’ medical care because it may show bias or financial
incentives on the part of the lien-physicians. If a lien-physician wants future
referrals from a lawyer and understands that the lawyer benefits from inflating
a client's medical bills, that incentive might encourage the lien-physician to
inflate its current bill to please the lawyer and win future referrals.” (Id.
at 808.)
 
While evidence of how often
Plaintiff’s counsel’s firm refers patients to BHAPS may be relevant based on Qaadir,
the information produced by the subpoena would contain identifying information
about the patients and involve personal medical information from third-party
patients. Qaadir does not support the proposition that all information
from past lien agreements is relevant since Qaadir involved evidence of
only the plaintiff’s referral. (See Qaadir, supra, 67
Cal.App.5th at 807-08.) Moreover, Defendant has not shown specific facts why
ten years of records is justified. 
 
 In reply, Defendant argues the information
could be redacted, and states it cannot provide consumer notices since it does
not know the names of the patients.[1] (Reply,
3.) BHAPS has not pointed to authority that redacting the personal
identification information would still require consumer notices. Moreover, in opposition,
BHAPS asserts that “[i]f the Court is inclined to grant Defendant’s Motion,
testimony and documents produced should be limited to two years of redacted
lien information. Anything outside of this should be strictly prohibited.”
(Opp., 8-9.)
 
            Since
Defendant has moved to compel the subpoena, based on the deficiencies discussed
regarding the scope, the motion to compel 10 years worth of all lien agreements
or contracts is denied. However, in light of BHAPS’ apparent agreement to
produce two years of redacted lien information, as limited, the motion is
granted.
 
The Court denies BHAPS request for
sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure section 128.5, finding that the 21-day
procedural requirement was not met. (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.5, subd. (f)(1)(B).)
Additionally, the Court finds that Defendant acted with substantial
justification and declines to award sanctions.  
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court grants in part Defendant’s motion to Compel
Compliance with Uber Technologies, Inc.’s Deposition Subpoena for Production of
Business Records to BHAPS. BHAPS shall produce redacted lien information for
the two years prior to Plaintiff’s referral.
 
            Defendant shall give notice of the
Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.


