 Case Number:  23STCV15871    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
Please note: The Court is
unavailable to hear oral argument on the motion this afternoon. If all parties
submit, the tentative ruling will be adopted as the order of the Court. If a
party requests oral argument, the hearing will be continued to either September
30, 2024 or October 2, 2024.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  25, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV15871




MOTIONS:  


(1)
  Motion to Deem the Truth of Facts and Genuineness of Documents 
(2)
  Motion to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories
(3)
  Motion to Compel Responses to Request for Production
(4)
  Motion to Compel Responses to Special Interrogatories




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Jonathan Bowles




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant Steven Kelman 



 
BACKGROUND
 
 Plaintiff Jonathan Bowles (“Plaintiff”) now moves
for an order to deem admitted Requests for Admission, Set One and to compel verified
responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special
Interrogatories, Set One, and Request for Production, Set One propounded
on Defendant Steven Kelman (“Defendant”). Plaintiff
seeks monetary sanctions. Defendant opposes.[1] No
reply has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Requests
for Admission
 
Where there has
been no timely response to a request for admission under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2033.010, the propounding party may move for an order that
the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction.¿ (Code of Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)¿ The party who failed to respond waives any
objections to the demand, unless the court grants that party relief from the
waiver, upon a showing that the party (1) has subsequently served a
substantially compliant response, and (2) that the party’s failure to respond
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.¿ (Code of Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subds. (a)(1)-(2).)¿ The court “shall” grant a motion to
deem admitted requests for admissions, “unless it finds that the party to whom
the requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on
the motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in
substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.”¿ (Code of Civ. Proc., §
2033.280, subd. (c).)¿ 
 
Where a party
fails to provide a timely response to requests for admission, “[i]t is
mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to
serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) 
 
Interrogatories
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to
serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 (b).) Failure to timely respond waives
all objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290 (a)(1),
(a)(2).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no
responses have been served and no meet and confer is required when a party does
not respond to discovery requests. All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902,
905-906.)  
 
If a motion to
compel responses is filed, the Court shall impose a monetary sanction against
the losing party “unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290 (c).) Further, “[t]he
court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files
a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was
filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery
was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.” (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1348(a). 
 
Requests for Production 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.300, if a party
fails to serve a timely response to a demand for inspection, the party making
the demand may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Code Civ.
Pro § 2031.300 (b).) The party who fails to serve a timely response to a demand
for inspection waives any objection to the demand unless the court finds that
the party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance
or party’s failure was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable
neglect. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300 (a)(1)- (2).)  
 
Courts shall impose a monetary sanction against any party
who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand
for inspection unless the party acted with substantial justification or other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).) 
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Plaintiff asserts that he served Requests for
Admission, Set One, Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set
One, and Request for Production, Set One on Defendant
on September 29, 2023. (Yadegari Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. 1.) Responses were due October
31, 2023. (Id. ¶ 3.) However, Defendant did not respond. 
 
In opposition, Defendant contends he did not receive
service of the underlying discovery requests. Defendant also argues that
Plaintiff failed to meet and confer prior to filing this motion. 
 
First, there is no statutory provision mandating a meet and
confer prior to moving to deem admitted admissions or compel written discovery
after there was no response. (See St. Mary v. Superior Court (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 762, 777-78; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific
Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 411.) 
 
Second, the Court notes that the proof of service of the
written discovery displays the correct email address set forth in Defendant’s
opposition. (See Opp., 1.)  Nevertheless,
Defendant’s counsel, Scott Stratman, declares under penalty of perjury, the following:
“I reviewed the entire file for any evidence that plaintiff counsel had served
discovery on the la.legal@farmersinsurance.com service address.  There was none. Our office practice is to
create a paralegal task when discovery is received.  No task was created in this file. A word
search of the file revealed no discovery other than the discovery served on
plaintiff counsel and received.” (Stratman Decl. ¶ 4-6.) Defendant’s counsel
further states that he emailed Plaintiff’s counsel on September 16, 2024 asking
for the email that allegedly served the discovery. (Id. ¶ 8.)
 
Plaintiff has not filed a reply and therefore, fails to
show that the discovery was properly served. 
 
Therefore, given the dispute about
whether the discovery was properly served or received, the motion to deem
admitted and compel written responses are denied without prejudice. Plaintiff
shall promptly re-serve the written discovery at issue. 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to deem admitted Request
for Admissions, Set One is DENIED without prejudice. Plaintiff’s Motions to
Compel Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One,
and Request for Production, Set One are DENIED
without prejudice.
 
Plaintiff shall
provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.  
 


