  Case Number:  23STCV09309    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
JEFFREY LAWRENCE
  SOLOMON, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
OXGORD INCORPORATED, et
  al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  20STCV43007
  Hearing Date: April 29, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ motion to apply idaho law  




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On November 10, 2020, Plaintiffs
Jeffrey Lawrence Solomon and Lynn Soderquist-Solomon initiated this action for
products liability and negligence against Defendants Oxgord Incorporated and
Day to Day Imports Inc. 
            Plaintiff Jeffrey Solomon fell from
a ladder that he purchased from Defendants. The accident occurred in Idaho,
where Plaintiffs reside, and Plaintiffs were treated in Idaho. There is one
other witness to the incident, who also lives in Idaho. However, Defendants
have their principal place of business in California. 
            On March 30, 2023, Defendants filed a
motion to dismiss the action on grounds of forum non conveniens, arguing
that the case should be tried in Idaho. The Court denied the motion on April
28, 2023. Defendants thereafter filed a petition for writ of mandate with the
Court of Appeal, which was denied on October 19, 2023. 
            On March 26, 2024, Defendants filed
the instant motion to have Idaho law deemed applicable to the case. Plaintiffs
filed their opposition on April 16, 2024. Defendants filed their reply on April
22, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
            “California follows a three-step ‘governmental
interest analysis’ to address conflict of laws claims and ascertain the most
appropriate law applicable to the issues where there is no effective
choice-of-law agreement.” (Washington Mutual Bank v. Superior Court
(2001) 24 Cal.4th 906, 919.) The first step is to determine whether the law of
the foreign state “materially differs from the law of California.” (Ibid.)
If so, the second step is to “determine what interest, if any, each state has
in having its own law applied to the case.” (Id. at p. 920.) If both
states have an interest in having their laws applied, the third step is to “select
the law of the state whose interests would be ‘more impaired’ if its law were
not applied.” (Ibid.)  
DISCUSSION
I.
Timeliness of the Motion 
            Plaintiffs argue that the motion is
untimely, citing the excerpt, “generally speaking the forum will apply its own
rule of decision unless a party litigant timely invokes the law of a foreign
state.” (Washington Mutual, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 919.) Plaintiffs
cite no authority defining what is considered “timely,” nor any case where a
motion to apply foreign law was denied as untimely. The Court does not find
that Defendants unreasonably delayed in filing this motion or that Plaintiffs
have been prejudiced. As such, the Court proceeds on the merits.  
II.
Governmental Interest Test
            a. Material Differences Between
California and Idaho Law
            Idaho imposes a noneconomic damages
cap of $250,000 in personal injury cases (Idaho Code, § 6-1603), whereas
California does not. The two states also impose substantially different legal
standards for products liability. (See Chavez v. Glock, Inc. (2012) 207
Cal.App.4th 1283, 1302; McCabe v. American Honda Motor Co. (2022) 100
Cal.App.4th 1111, 1120; Puckett v. Oakfabco, Inc. 132 Idaho 816, 821
(1999); Farmer v. International Harvester Co. 97 Idaho 742, 747 (1976).)
Therefore, the first step is met. 
            b. Each State’s Interest in
Applying Its Law
“When a state adopts a rule of law
limiting liability for commercial activity conducted within the state in order
to provide what the state perceives is fair treatment to, and an appropriate
incentive for, business enterprises, we believe that the state ordinarily has
an interest in having that policy of limited liability applied to out-of-state
companies that conduct business in the state.” (McCann v. Foster Wheeler LLC
(2010) 48 Cal.4th 68, 91.) Relying on McCann, Defendants argue that
Idaho has an interest in enforcing the damages cap as to Defendants, so as to
preserve economic incentives for out-of-state businesses doing business in
Idaho. Additionally, courts generally recognize that “a jurisdiction ordinarily
has ‘the predominant interest’ in regulating conduct that occurs within its
borders.” (Id. at p. 98.)   
On the other hand, California arguably has
an interest in preventing the distribution and sale of defective products in
this state by corporations operating and doing business in California. 
c. Impairment of Interests
The impairment analysis is not a
determination of which state has the “better” or “worthier” policy. (McCann,
supra, 48 Cal.4th at p. 97.) Rather, the question is “which jurisdiction
should be allocated the predominating lawmaking power under the circumstances
of the present case.” (Ibid.)           
Regarding Idaho’s cap on noneconomic
damages, Plaintiffs argue that “[t]he legislative history behind I.C. § 6-1603
reveals the statute was passed as part of a larger legislative package aimed at
addressing concerns that large civil jury verdicts were driving up the cost of
liability insurance.” (Kirkland by & ex rel. Kirkland v. Blaine County
Med. Ctr. (2000) 134 Idaho 464, 470.) However, the initial motive for
passing the cap does not diminish Idaho’s interest in applying its own laws to
cases involving conduct and injuries wholly occurring within its borders.
Again, a jurisdiction ordinarily has the “predominant interest” in regulating
conduct that occurs within its borders. (See McCann, supra, 48 Cal.4th at
p. 98.) Here, the conduct primarily occurred in Idaho because the ladder was
shipped to Idaho, was used in Idaho, and allegedly injured Plaintiffs in Idaho.
There is no indication that the ladder was manufactured or designed in
California.
The cases that Plaintiffs rely on, Reich
v. Purcell (1967) 67 Cal.2d
551 and Hurtado v. Super. Ct. (1974) 11 Cal.3d 574, were expressly
distinguished by McCann because they involved “automobile accidents
involving private individuals, not commercial entities, and nothing in those
decisions suggests that a state's interest in the application of a statute
limiting liability for specified commercial activity carried on within the
state applies only to local companies and not equally to out-of state companies
doing business within the state.” (McCann, supra, 48 Cal.4th at p. 93.) McCann
is more on point because it addresses the specific issue of applying a state’s
law to a foreign business entity conducting business in the state. As stated in
McCann, a state’s law applies to out-of-state entities unless there is
an “explicit indication” that the law is limited to in-state businesses. (Id.
at p. 92.) Here, there is no indication that Idaho’s personal injury law,
including the cap on noneconomic damages, was intended to apply solely to Idaho
businesses. Therefore, despite Defendants being domiciled in California, Idaho
has the predominant interest.
California’s interest would be less
impaired in this particular case because all pertinent events occurred in
Idaho. While California may have an interest in preventing the distribution and
sale of defective products in the state, this interest is not implicated when a
product is sold to a resident of another state, is used in that other state,
and causes injury in the other state. Under these circumstances, the mere fact
that Defendants are domiciled in California provides California with a
negligible interest in applying its law. The Court finds that Idaho would be
substantially more impaired if its law were not applied. Therefore, Idaho law
applies to this case.
CONCLUSION
            Defendants’ motion to apply Idaho
law is GRANTED. 