 Case Number:  19STCV45568    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


April
  18, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


19STCV45568




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Christine Agopian




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the petition
filed on February 26, 2024 by Petitioner Christine Agopian (Petitioner) on
behalf of Claimant Sacha Agopian, age 9. The Court denies the petition without prejudice for the following
reasons: 
 
Petitioner indicates that Claimant suffered a broken bone
and dislocated elbow, requiring surgery. Petitioner also indicates that
Claimant is fully recovered. However, Petitioner must provide medical records
and/or a medical report or other evidence confirming her current condition in
attachment 8. 
 
Petitioner must include the terms of settlement in item
10c.  
 
Petitioner seeks $12,830.26 in
medical expenses to be reimbursed from the settlement. (See item 12a(4).) Petitioner
indicates she paid this amount and seeks to be reimbursed. However, this
conflicts with information in 12b(2) that also seeks a $4,459 reimbursement to
a private health insurer. Based on these values, the total amount sought to be
reimbursed for medical expenses appears to be $17,289.26. If the insurer paid
the medical expenses and seeks to be reimbursed from the proceeds, Petitioner
must also make a selection in 12b(2)(a–d). 
 
However item 12b(5) and the
relevant attachment also conflict with the previous selections in item 12 since
they indicate that outstanding medical liens should be paid directly to the
medical providers, and not to the insurer under item 12b(2). Therefore, the
total amount of medical expenses being reimbursed, and the method of
reimbursement is unclear.  
 
Petitioner requests $20,851.14 in attorney fees which
represents 27.8% of the gross settlement. Petitioner’s attorney must provide a
revised declaration in attachment 13a discussing the factors in California
Rules of Court, rule 7.955(b). 
 
Petitioner is seeking to be reimbursed for medical
payments. Petitioner must show proof of $12,830.26 in medical expenses incurred
and proof of the payments made. Petitioner must provide this in attachment 14b.
Petitioner must also provide a declaration in attachment 14b describing the
invoices provided and payments made. For example, Petitioner has provided
invoices from Blooming Steps Physical Therapy that appear to total $6,710.
However, there does not appear to be proof of payments. The declaration must clearly
state what Petitioner paid. 
 
Petitioner must complete item 15. 
 
The amount in 16b is inconsistent with item 12 of the
petition. 
 
Petitioner must provide the correct information in attachment
18b(2). 
 
In the proposed order (MC-351), Petitioner must also
select “guardian ad litem” in item 2. Petitioner must write the net amount in
8b(1). Petitioner must complete item 9a.
 
Since Petitioner seeks the funds to be deposited in a
blocked account, she must also complete and file form MC-355. 
 
Accordingly, the Court denies the petition without
prejudice.
 
Petitioner shall give notice and file a
proof of service of such.
 