 Case Number:  21STCV21804    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


April
  18, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV21804




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Good Faith Settlement




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant/Cross-Complainant Poiema
  Enterprise, Inc. dba La Mexicana Meat Market




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  North Atlantic Investment Co., LLC 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises from a trip and fall accident at La Mexicana Meat
Market that occurred on June 19, 2019. The shopping center where the incident
occurred is owned by Co-defendant North Atlantic Investment Co., LLC (“NAI”).
Plaintiff tripped on ADA mats outside La Mexicana Meat Market, that were installed
by NAI.
 
In this action, Defendant /Cross-Complainant Poiema Enterprise, Inc.
dba La Mexicana Meat Market (“PEI”) filed a previous motion for determination
of a good faith settlement. The Court denied the motion. (See Min. Order,
12/13/23.) 
 
PEI now moves again for an order that the settlement entered between
Plaintiff Ameila Aguilar (“Plaintiff”) and it, was made in good faith. NAI
opposes and PEI replies.[1] 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Under section 877.6 of the Code of Civil Procedure, “[a] determination by
the court that [a] settlement was made in good faith shall bar any other joint
tortfeasor . . . from any further claims against the settling tortfeasor .
. . for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or comparative
indemnity, based on comparative negligence or comparative fault.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 877.6 (c).) Any party to an action may move for an order
determining whether a settlement between the plaintiff and one or more alleged
tortfeasors or co-obligors was made in good faith. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6,
subd. (a)(1).) “The party asserting the lack of good faith shall have the burden of
proof on that issue.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (d).) 
 
Section 877.6 requires “that the courts review [settlement] agreements
made under its aegis to insure that the settlements appropriately balance the .
. . statute’s dual objectives” (i.e., providing an “equitable sharing of costs
among the parties at fault” and encouraging parties to resolve their disputes
by way of settlement.) (Tech-Bilt, Inc. v.
Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 494 (hereafter, Tech-Bilt).) In
Tech-Bilt, the court set forth the factors to consider when determining
whether a settlement is made in good faith. The Tech-Bilt factors are:
(1) a rough approximation of plaintiff’s total recovery and the settlor’s
proportionate liability; (2) the amount paid in settlement; (3) the allocation
of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs; (4) a recognition that a settlor
should pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a
trial; (5) the financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling
defendants; and (6) the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct
aimed to injure the interests of the non-settling defendants. (Tech-Bilt,
supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 498-501.) Not every factor will apply in every case.
(Dole Food Co., Inc. v. Sup.Ct. (Shell Oil Co.) (2015) 242
Cal.4th 894, 909.) 
 
“ ‘A determination as to the good faith of a settlement, within the
meaning of section 877.6, necessarily requires the trial court to examine and
weigh a number of relevant factors, [fn. omitted] one of the most important of
which is the settling party's proportionate liability.’ [citation.] If ‘there
is no substantial evidence to support a critical assumption as to the nature
and extent of a settling defendant's liability, then a determination of good
faith based upon such assumption is an abuse of discretion.’” (Mattco Forge, Inc. v. Arthur Young & Co. (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1350.)
 
“All affidavits relied upon as probative must state evidentiary facts;
they must show facts and circumstances from which the ultimate fact sought to
be proved may be deduced by the court. [citation.] Affidavits or declarations
setting forth only conclusions, opinions or ultimate facts are to be held
insufficient; even an expert's opinion cannot rise to the dignity of
substantial evidence if it is unsubstantiated by facts. [citation.]” (Greshko v. County of Los Angeles (1987) 194 Cal.App.3d 822, 834.)
 
“The party asserting the lack of good faith . . . [is] permitted to
demonstrate, if he can, that the settlement is so far ‘out of the ballpark’ in
relation to [the above] factors as to be inconsistent with the equitable
objectives of [Section 877.6]. Such a demonstration would establish that the
proposed settlement was not a ‘settlement made in good faith’ within the terms
of section 877.6.” (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at pp. 499–500.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
PEI has entered into a settlement with Plaintiff for $75,000 from its $2,000,000-insurance
policy. (Carter Decl. ¶ 3.)
 
PEI sets forth evidence that the injury took place on a common area in
the shopping center, and not on its premises. “Although persons may be liable
for injuries occurring under various circumstances on property under their
control or for actively putting others in peril elsewhere, absent specific
statutory requirements persons generally have no duty (and indeed often no
right) to attempt to prevent any possible injury which may occur on another's
property.” (Donnell v. California Western School of Law (1988) 200
Cal.App.3d 715, 726.) Therefore, PEI argues it did not own, possess, or control
the area, and thus, is not liable for premises liability or less than 10%
liable at most. (Motion, 9.) Additionally, it shows that NAI’s person most
qualified testified that it never requested PEI to install the subject mat and
that the sidewalk in front of the store was considered a common area under the
lease.[2] (Carter
Decl., Exh. J, Choi Depo. 20:12-16; 58:25-59:24.) Therefore, the Court finds
PEI has sufficiently addressed its liability.
 
PEI asserts that Plaintiff values this case around $750,000 since she
accepted the $75,000 settlement offer from PEI and served a 998 offer to NAI
for $650,000. (Carter Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. I.) This means that PEI is paying 10% of
the Plaintiff’s damages. However, PEI also notes that Dr. Kvitne, who conducted
an orthopedic examination of Plaintiff, determined the reasonable value of
Plaintiff’s medical bills to be $63,000. (Exh. E, page 24.) Yet again, this
conclusion is not presented in an affidavit under penalty of perjury. PEI
asserts that Plaintiff’s claimed special damages are $280,000, but this is also
not stated in the declaration. (Motion, 9.) However, these facts do not appear
to be disputed.
 
The declaration in support states there was no collusion or fraud
between PEI and Plaintiff. (Carter Decl. ¶ 3.) Therefore, based on the above,
the Court finds that PEI has made its initial showing that the settlement was
made in good faith.
 
In opposition, NAI argues that due to joint and several liability, PEI
would be liable for the entire amount of damages. However, NAI does not set
forth facts that show the subject sidewalk or mat were owned, possessed, or
controlled by PEI, or that PEI is otherwise liable to Plaintiff at all. NAI
does not explain its theory that PEI was “contractually responsible to
maintain” the ADA mat, given the definition of “premises” in the lease
agreement, or its argument that PEI “is responsible for causing the incident,”
given the testimony of NAI’s PMK. (Opposition at pp. 5-6.)
 
NAI also notes that the settlement amount is only 3.75% of PEI’s
policy limit. (Opp., 2.) However, the settlement is considered against PEI’s
proportional liability and Plaintiff’s damages. Therefore, since NAI cannot
show a basis for PEI’s liability, it fails to show that the proposed settlement
amount is so far out of the ballpark in relation to the Tech-Bilt
factors. (See Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at pp. 499–500.)
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the motion for determination of good faith settlement is GRANTED.
 
PEI shall give notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service
of such.


