 Case Number:  23STCV19129    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


April
  18, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV19129




MOTION


Motion
  to Strike 




MOVING PARTY


Defendant
  Target Corporation




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Enedino Espinoza



 
MOTION
 
On August 10, 2023, Plaintiff Enedino Espinoza (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Defendants Target Corporation, BOP Figat7th LLC, Universal
Protection Service, LP, and Does 1 to 100. The events revolve around a man who,
on November 15, 2022, allegedly entered a Target store at the Figat7th mall and
stabbed customers with a knife. Plaintiff in this case alleges he was employed
as a security guard by Watermark Security Group Inc., which had a contract with
Target Corporation to guard the subject store. (SAC ¶ 1, 6.) Plaintiff alleges
he responded to the subject stabbing, encountered the perpetrator, and
ultimately rendered deadly force to stop the attack. (Id. ¶ 24.) Plaintiff
initially alleged causes of action for (1) breach of express contract; (2)
breach of implied contract; (3) violation of Labor Code section 1102.5; (4)
intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”); (5) negligence; (6)
assault; (7) violation of Civil Code section 52.1; (8) violation of Business
and Professions Code section 17200; and (9) violation of Civil Code section
1770(a) et seq.
 
On November 14, 2023, the Court overruled a demurrer to the IIED and negligence
causes of action. The Court sustained the demurrer to the remaining causes of
action with leave to amend. Plaintiff then filed a first amended complaint
(“FAC”).
 
On February 15, 2024, the Court sustained Target Corporation’s
(“Target”) demurrer to the first, second, third, seventh, eighth, and ninth
causes of action in the FAC without leave to amend.[1]
(Min. Order, 2/15/24.) Target also moved to strike references to punitive
damages in the FAC. The Court only analyzed the causes of action that survived
the demurrer: IIED and assault. Plaintiff alleged that Target employees
permitted the perpetrator to open the knife and did nothing to stop him. The
Court granted the motion to strike. (Min. Order, 2/15/24.) 
 
On February 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative second amended
complaint (“SAC”) alleging causes of action for IIED, negligence, and assault.
 
Target now moves to strike references to punitive damages in
paragraphs 18, 47, 61, and the prayer for punitive damages in page 21,
paragraph 5. Plaintiff opposes and Target replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
California law authorizes a party’s motion to strike matter from an
opposing party’s pleading if it is irrelevant, false, or improper.  (Code
Civ. Proc. §§ 435; 436(a).)  Motions may also target pleadings or parts of
pleadings which are not filed or drawn in conformity with applicable laws,
rules or orders.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(b).)  A motion to strike is
used to address defects that appear on the face of a pleading or from
judicially noticed matter but that are not grounds for a demurrer.  (Pierson
v Sharp Memorial Hospital (1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 340, 342; see also City
& County of San Francisco v Strahlendorf (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1911,
1913 (motion may not be based on a party's declaration or factual
representations made by counsel in the motion papers).)  In particular, a
motion to strike can be used to attack the entire pleading or any part thereof
– in other words, a motion may target single words or phrases, unlike
demurrers.  (Warren v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Railway Co.
(1971) 19 Cal.App.3d 24, 40.)  The Code of Civil Procedure also authorizes
the Court to act on its own initiative to strike matters, empowering the Court
to enter orders striking matter “at any time in its discretion, and upon terms
it deems proper.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 436.) 
 
Punitive damages may be imposed where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)  “Malice” is conduct
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) 
“‘Punitive damages are proper only when the tortious conduct rises to levels of
extreme indifference to the plaintiff’s rights, a level which decent citizens
should not have to tolerate.’  [Citation.]”  (Lackner v. North
(2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1188, 1210.)    
 
“As amended to include [despicable], the [Civil Code section 3294]
plainly indicates that absent an intent to injure the plaintiff, ‘malice’
requires more than a ‘willful and conscious’ disregard of the plaintiffs’
interests.  The additional component of ‘despicable conduct’ must be
found.”  (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th
704, 725.) (emphasis added.)  The statute’s reference to despicable
conduct represents a “new substantive limitation on punitive damage
awards.”  (Id.)  Despicable conduct is “conduct which is so
vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be
looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.  Such conduct has
been described as ‘having the character of outrage frequently associated with
crime.’”  (Tomaselli v. Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th
1269, 1287.)  Further, “[t]here must be evidence that defendant acted with
knowledge of the probable dangerous consequences to plaintiff’s interests and
deliberately failed to avoid these consequences.”  (Flyer’s Body Shop
Profit Sharing Plan v. Ticor Title Ins. Co. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 1149,
1155.) 
 
A motion to strike punitive damages is properly granted where a
plaintiff does not state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, including
allegations that defendant is guilty of oppression, fraud or malice.  (Turman
v. Turning Point of Cent. California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53,
63.)  “Mere negligence, even gross negligence, is not sufficient to
justify such an award” for punitive damages.  (Kendall Yacht Corp. v.
United California Bank (1975) 50 Cal.App.3d 949, 958.) Moreover, conclusory
allegations are not sufficient to support a claim for punitive damages.  (Brousseau
v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.) 
 
Civil Code section 3294(b) provides: “An employer shall not be liable
for damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the
employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the
employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or
safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the
damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.
With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious
disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice
must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the
corporation.”
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
“Before filing a motion to strike . . .
the moving party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike for the purpose
of determining if an agreement can be reached that resolves the objections to
be raised in the motion to strike.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd.
(a).)  If no agreement is reached, the moving party shall file and serve
with the motion to strike a declaration stating either: (1) the means by which
the parties met and conferred and that the parties did not reach an agreement,
or (2) that the party who filed the pleading failed to respond to the meet and
confer request or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a)(3).)  
 
According to the Declaration of Jessica
Farley, Target’s counsel attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiff’s counsel.
(Farley Decl. ¶ 3.) 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Here, Target moves to
strike references to punitive damages in paragraphs 18, 47, 61, and the prayer
for punitive damages in page 21, paragraph 5. Paragraphs 47 and 61 pertain to
the IIED and assault causes of action. Target argues these allegations are
boilerplate. 
 
As to the IIED claim, Plaintiff alleges, among other things, that
“Defendants, by and through one or more of their officers, directors or
managing agents, permitted Plaintiff to be victimized, threated with
unreasonable and un-consented to force.” (SAC ¶ 40.) “Defendants knew assault
was being committed, that further assault was going to be committed,
substantially assisted the parties to assault Plaintiff and participated in the
misconduct by permitting the conduct to continue giving the parties access to the
Plaintiff, who they knew would be at the door and thereby would be having
further contact with Plaintiff, with no reprimand or restriction.” (SAC ¶ 41.)
“The above said acts of the Defendants, was approved of by one or more of their
officers, directors or managing agents, and constituted intentional infliction
of emotional distress against Plaintiff.” (SAC ¶ 44.)
 
As to the assault claim, Plaintiff alleges, among other things, that
“Defendants’ actions were undertaken by or through one or more of their
officers, directors or managing agents, was authorized and or ratified by them,
was willful, reckless, and exhibited a conscious disregard of the rights of
Plaintiff.” (SAC ¶ 61.)
 
Here, although the SAC repeatedly refers to unspecified officers,
directors, or managing agents, the SAC alleges no facts to support the
conclusory allegations and legal conclusions regarding these officers,
directors, or managing agents.[2]
(See Cruz v. HomeBase (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 160, 167; White v.
Ultramar, Inc. (1999) 21
Cal.4th 563, 576-77 [“[t]he Legislature intended that principal
liability for punitive damages not depend on employees’ managerial level, but
on the extent to which they exercise substantial discretionary authority over
decisions that ultimately determine corporate policy.”]; Grieves v. Superior
Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 168 [“absent from the complaint is any
assertion that an officer, director or managing agent of Hospital was
personally responsible for any of the acts allegedly performed by Hospital.”]; Smith
v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042 [“The sole basis for
seeking punitive damages are the conclusory allegations of paragraph 14. As
noted above, that paragraph is devoid of any factual assertions supporting a
conclusion petitioners acted with oppression, fraud or malice.”].)
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Defendant Target Corporation’s motion to strike is GRANTED with leave
to amend. Any amended complaint must be filed and served within 60 days.
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 


