 Case Number:  21STCV05943    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


April
  18, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV05943




MOTIONS:  


(1)
  Compel Responses to Requests for Production of Documents




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant
  Environmental Service Concepts, LLC 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendant Environmental Service
Concepts, LLC (Defendant) moves to compel Plaintiff Mercedes Penaherrera
(Plaintiff) to serve verified responses, without objections, to Defendant’s
Request for Production, Set One. Defendant seeks monetary sanctions against
Plaintiff and her counsel. No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.300, if a party fails to
serve a timely response to a demand for inspection, the party making the demand
may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Code Civ. Pro §
2031.300 (b).) The party who fails to serve a timely response to a demand for
inspection waives any objection to the demand unless the court finds that the
party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance or
party’s failure was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300 (a)(1)- (2).) 
 
Courts shall impose a monetary sanction against any party who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for
inspection unless the party acted with substantial justification or other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Defendant served Requests for Production of Documents, Set One on
Plaintiff on July 27, 2022. (Gharzeddine Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. A.) Since then, no
responses have been served. (Id. ¶ 6.)  Therefore, because responses have not been
served, the motion to compel is granted. 
 
Defendant also
requests $319.98 in monetary sanctions for the motion. This represents an
hourly rate of $155.00 and the $61.65 filing fee. (Id. ¶ 9.) The Court
finds sanctions are warranted because Plaintiff has failed to respond. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to Compel Requests for Production of
Documents, Set One is GRANTED. Plaintiff Mercedes Penaherrera shall provide verified
responses, without objection, within 15 days.
 
The Court further GRANTS Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions
against Plaintiff Mercedes Penaherrera and her attorney of record, jointly and
severally, in the amount of $319.98. Said monetary sanctions are to be paid
to counsel for Defendant within 30 days of the date of this order.
 
Defendant
shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such. 