 Case Number:  23CMCV00621    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  A 23CMCV00621
 Atlas VI JCP Carson, LLC v. Khaled I. Azzam, et al.
Tuesday,
April 23, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION FOR
SUMMARY JUDGMENT BY PLAINTIFF ATLAS VI JCP CARSON, LLC
 
I.       
BACKGROUND
       The
complaint alleges that Plaintiff’s predecessor-in-interest leased commercial
real property to Defendant, Khaled I. Azzam dba Metro Fusion (“Tenant” or
“Azzam”).  Plaintiff alleges that at some
point during the tenancy, the tenant transferred his interest in the lease to
Metro Fusion, Inc. (“Metro” or “Defendant”). Defendants allegedly defaulted on
the lease by failing to pay rent. Plaintiff alleges one cause of action for
breach of contract for overdue rent totaling $267,648.89. 
II.     
ARGUMENTS
       Plaintiff
moves for summary judgment against both Azzam and Metro on grounds that the
undisputed facts demonstrate that both Defendants are liable to the Plaintiff
for breach of the written lease agreement. Plaintiff argues that the Azzam validly
transferred his lease obligations to Metro, who is now liable for the rent as a
matter of law.
       Plaintiff
also seeks judgment in its favor against Azzam, who defaulted on his rent
obligations from April 1, 2020, until August 30, 2022. There is no dispute that
the total amount owed is $267,648.89 in past base rent and additional rent.
       In
opposition, Defendants argue that Plaintiff cannot recover anything from Metro,
who was not a signatory to the lease agreement, nor a subtenant, assignee, or
transferee. The amount of rent owed is controverted by Defendants’ evidence
warranting denial of the motion. Plaintiff has affirmative defenses of
commercial frustration impracticability of performance, and impossibility
resulting from the COVID-19 stay-at-home orders, which will reduce the amount
of rent owed.
       In
reply, Plaintiff reiterates its position that Metro is liable on the lease as
de facto assignee since it owns all the merchandise, fixtures and is the only
entity that received and is receiving revenue. 
III.   
LEGAL STANDARDS
       Summary
judgment is proper “if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c subd. (c).) The court strictly
construes the moving party's supporting evidence while the opposing party’s
evidence is liberally construed. Doubts as to the propriety of the motion
should be resolved in favor of denying the motion. (D’Amico
v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 20). The court does
not evaluate the credibility of testimony. (Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal. App. 4th 832, 840.) 
       As the moving party, Plaintiff’s burden
is to produce admissible evidence on each element of a cause of action
entitling him or her to judgment. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(1).) If that threshold burden is met, the burden
shifts to the opposing party to show a triable issue of one or more material
facts. (Code Civ. Proc., §437c(p)(1).)  A
motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it “completely
disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or
that one or more defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff
or plaintiffs.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c.)
       The
court applies the three-step analysis to motions for summary judgment or
adjudication: (1) identify the issues framed by the pleading, (2) determine
whether the moving party established facts which negate the opponents’ claim,
(3) determine whether the opposing party has controverted those facts with
admissible evidence. (Torres
v. Reardon (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th 831, 836).  
IV.   
DISCUSSION
A.     
Procedural issues.
       On
April 18, 2024, the Court granted Metro’s Motion for Summary Judgment,
rendering moot Plaintiff’s request for judgment against Metro. The Court’s
ruling will address Plaintiff’s argument as it applies to the tenant Azzam
only.
       Additionally,
the Court returns to Plaintiff Exhibits A and B, improperly submitted conditionally
under seal without a court order.  (Universal
City Studios, Inc. v. Superior Court (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1273, 1277.)
B.     
Substantive analysis.
       The
complaint alleges that Defendant Azzam signed the written lease agreement as
the tenant. (Complaint, ¶ 2.) Azzam allegedly transferred or assigned his
interest in the lease to Defendant Metro, a corporate entity. (Complaint, ¶¶ 12,
31). 
       The elements of a claim for breach of
contract require allegations showing a valid and existing contract between the
parties, plaintiff’s performance or excuse for non-performance, defendant’s
breach, causation, and damage. (Reichert v. General Ins. Co. of America (1968) 68 Cal.2d 822, 830.).         
1)     
Azzam’s
objections to the Declaration of Jenni Harris.
              #1, 2, 3. The court declines to
rule on these objections. The documents showing Plaintiff is the
successor-in-interest based on its purchase of the premises from its
predecessor are irrelevant as it is not a material fact. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (q) ["In granting or denying a motion for
summary judgment or summary adjudication, the court need rule only on those
objections to evidence that it deems material to its disposition of the motion.”].)
              #4, 5. Overruled. Foundation for
the existence of the lease agreement is established by Ms. Harris’ business
records declaration. The parties do not dispute the existence of lease and the
tenant’s obligations for rent and additional rent (UF 9-18.)
              #6.
 The Court declines to rule on the
objection to Ms. Harris’s assertion that Metro took possession, installed
fixtures, and operated its business on the premises. (Harris decl. ¶ 8.) This
is irrelevant as Metro’s liability is no longer at issue. 
              #7.
Overruled. Defendant does not state a basis for objecting to Ms. Harris’s
knowledge of Defendant’s default status on rent. Defendant’s objection refers
to Ex. C, showing Plaintiff’s purchase of the property and assumption of the
lease agreements. This is irrelevant.   
              #8.
Overruled. Defendant’s objection to the assertion that Defendants failed to
comply with its rental obligations is argument and not evidentiary. 
              #9. Sustained. Plaintiff’s assertion
that Plaintiff did not engage in any acts or omissions to excuse performance is
a legal conclusion. 
              #10. Overruled. The amount of rent
purportedly owed by Defendants is based on the tenant’s ledger account
information. (Harris decl., Exhibit G.)
2)     
Plaintiff’s
objections to Defendant’s evidence. 
a)     
Declaration
of Khaled Azzam. 
       #1.
Sustained. Assignment or transfer of the lease to Metro is irrelevant.  
              #2. No objection made. (The
document is mis-numbered.)
              #3. Overruled. The three-day
notice issued by Plaintiff is relevant to the issue of Defendant’s breach of
the lease. 
              #4. Sustained. Azzam’s confusion
concerning the five-day notice issued by Plaintiff is irrelevant. 
              #5. Azzam’s claim that he did not
receive notice of Plaintiff’s election to charge for trash removal is
irrelevant since the lease does not require notice (as further discussed
below.)
              #6-7 Sustained. Whether
Defendant’s affirmative defenses excuse his rent obligations or should reduce
his obligation to pay for trash services are legal conclusions. 
b)     
Declaration
of Hussam Azzam.
              #1. Sustained as to statements
made by landlord’s unidentified “representative.” The basis for his
“understanding” of the lease is based on hearsay and is irrelevant.
              #2-3. Decline to rule. Metro’s
liability as assignee is no longer at issue. 
              #4. Sustained. Store closures as
required by “management” is hearsay and lacks foundation. 
              #5. Sustained. The vacancies
present at the mall post March 2020, are based on hearsay, lacks foundation,
and is argument, not evidence.  
              #6. Sustained. Whether Defendant
received separate written notice that Plaintiff elected to charge for trash
removal is irrelevant, given the lease does not require such notice.        
              #7-8 Sustained. Whether
Defendant’s affirmative defenses excuse his rent obligations or should reduce
his obligation are legal conclusions. Paragraph 10 of the declaration is
argument, not evidence.         
              #9. Sustained. Whether the tenant
delivered the lease payment for April 1, 2023, is not supported by any
evidence. 
3)     
Analysis
of the material facts and evidence.
       Azzam does not dispute the existence of the
lease agreement, its relevant terms, and his obligations thereunder (UF 9-18.)
However, an essential element of a claim for breach of contract requires proof
of plaintiff’s performance or
excuse for non-performance. (Reichert v. General Ins. Co. of America (1968) 68 Cal.2d 822, 830.) Plaintiff purports to establish this element based solely
on Ms. Harris’s declaration. This is a legal conclusion and inadmissible as
proof. UF 33 is not established.  
       Defendant has not proffered any facts
disputing that it is in default in the payment of rent from April 1, 2020,
through August 30, 2022 (UF 19.) Defendant admits the amount owed for base rent,
utilities, and CAM charges (UF 26, 27, 29).
       Defendant attempts to dispute that it is
obligated to pay for trash removal since there is no evidence that the
Plaintiff elected that the tenant should pay for such removal (UF 13.) However,
the provision states that Landlord is entitled to collect it “without prior
demand or notice.” (Harris decl., Ex. D, Lease, section 2.5.3.)
       The amount Defendant purportedly owes is
not supported by Plaintiff’s evidence. Plaintiff acknowledges and there is no
dispute that Defendant is entitled to offsets of $149,376.20, but that amount
is not deducted. (UF 30.)



Monthly rent April 2020 – April 2022


$175,353.60




Utilities


22,471.68




Trash removal charge


8,537.20




Common Area Operating Costs and Expenses


61,286.40




Subtotal 


$267,648.88




Offsets for partial payments 


(149,376.20)




Total Due


$118,272.68



 
Therefore, the
amount Defendant owes is not established (UF 25.)
       Defendant’s attempt to establish
affirmative defenses to warrant further reduction of the amount owed is
argument only and is not established by the legal conclusions of the Azzam
declarations.
V.     
CONCLUSION
       Plaintiff has not met its burden of
establishing that it is entitled to judgment. Plaintiff did not establish all
elements of the claim for breach of contract with uncontroverted evidence as described
above. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Judgment against Defendant
Azzam is DENIED.  