 Case Number:  22STCV22956    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are encouraged to meet and confer
concerning this tentative ruling to determine if a resolution may be
reached.  If the parties are unable to
reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the
party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org
indicating that party’s intention to submit. 
The email shall include the case number, date and time of the hearing,
counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the identity of the party
submitting on this tentative ruling.  If
the Court does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may place the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of
the Court.  If all parties do not submit
on this tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or
remotely.  Further, after the Court has
posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent authority to
prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the tentative ruling as
the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT 


32 




HEARING DATE 


October 10, 2024




CASE NUMBER 


22STCV22956




MOTION  


Motion to Compel Mental
  Independent Medical Examination




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants William N.
  Solis dba WNS Trucking and Epifanio Amilcar Solis Tello 




OPPOSING PARTIES 


Plaintiffs Kanwardeep Singh and
  Rochelle Yullin Arias



 
MOTION 
 
            Defendants
William N. Solis dba WNS Trucking and Epifanio Amilcar Solis Tello move to
compel Plaintiff Kanwardeep Singh’s mental examination. Plaintiffs Kanwardeep Singh and Rochelle
Yullin Arias oppose.
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Code of Civil procedure section 2032.310 states: “(a) If
any party desires to obtain discovery by a physical examination other than that
described in Article 2 (commencing with Section 2032.210), or by a mental
examination, the party shall obtain leave of court. (b) A motion for an
examination under subdivision (a) shall specify the time, place, manner,
conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well as the identity and
the specialty, if any, of the person or persons who will perform the
examination. The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration
under Section 2016.040. (c) Notice of the motion shall be served on the person
to be examined and on all parties who have appeared in the action.” 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.320 states: “(a) The
court shall grant a motion for a physical or mental examination under Section
2032.310 only for good cause shown. . . . (d) An order granting a physical or
mental examination shall specify the person or persons who may perform the
examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests and
procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.” 
 
However, “if a party stipulates as provided in subdivision
(c), the court shall not order a mental examination of a person for whose
personal injuries a recovery is being sought except on a showing of exceptional
circumstances.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.320, subd. (b).) “A stipulation by a
party under this subdivision shall include both of the following: (1)¿A
stipulation that no claim is being made for mental and emotional distress over
and above that usually associated with the physical injuries claimed. (2)¿A
stipulation that no expert testimony regarding this usual mental and
emotional distress will be presented at trial in support of the claim for
damages.” (Id. at subd. (c) [emphasis added].) 
Here, Plaintiff has placed his
mental condition “in controversy” by claiming the following injuries: (1) a concussion,
(2) severe headaches, (3) sleep disruption, (4) insomnia, (5) general anxiety,
(6) anxiety associated with driving, (7) short-term memory loss, and (8)
vertigo. (Aaronian Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. A.) Moreover, Plaintiff
testified that the impact of the subject accident caused his head to strike his
car’s “seat belt column” and lose consciousness. (Id., Ex. B, p. 128.)
Plaintiff testified that he still has recurring severe headaches and sleep
problems. (Id. at 34-36.) Plaintiff testified that he still experiences
anxiety driving on freeways and now even allegedly experiences recurring
anxiety attacks at night. (Id. at 11, 36, 82.) Plaintiff further
testified that he treated with a psychologist in 2023 due to depression,
anxiety, and headaches which he partly attributes to the subject accident. (Id.
at 105.) 
Plaintiff proposes to stipulate that no claim is being made for
mental or emotional distress over and above that usually associated with a
traumatic brain injury (“TBI”) and further stipulates that Plaintiff will not
present any expert testimony at trial in this regard. (Opp., pg. 2:9-12.)
However, the stipulation is not regarding mental and
emotional distress over and above that usually associated with physical
injuries – rather, the injury claimed, TBI, is itself a condition for which
there is good cause for a neuropsychological examination. 
Next, Plaintiff requests the court
set certain proposed parameters to the IME. Plaintiff has failed to provide any
authority for his broad requests, and has also failed to provide any
explanation. 
However, the court grants
Plaintiff’s requests for the raw data to be provided to Plaintiff’s counsel,
and for Plaintiff to audio record the examination. First, “There is
no statutory authority precluding a trial court from ordering the disclosure of
test materials or test data when ordering a mental examination.” (Randy’s
Trucking, Inc., v. Superior Court (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 818, 833-837.) Second, under Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.530, “[t]he
examiner and examinee shall have the right to record a mental examination by
audio technology.”  Nothing in the statute restricts the portions
of a mental exam that may be audio recorded.  (Golfland Entertainment
Ctrs., Inc. v. Sup.Ct. (2003), 108 Cal.App.4th 739, 750, 752 [trial court
abused discretion limiting audio recording to examinee’s responses only; entire
mental exam was to be recorded].) 
 
Any ethical issues about certain documents or the audio
recording being used outside proper neuropsychological contexts can be resolved
by a protective order confining the scope of disclosure and use of the raw test
data so that it may be properly used by Plaintiff’s counsel to consult with
Plaintiff’s own experts and to conduct cross-examination of Defendant’s
experts. 
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, the Court grants Defendants’ motion to compel Plaintiff
to undergo a mental examination subject to the limitations set forth herein.
 
Defendants are ordered to provide notice of this Order and file proof
of service of such.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 