 Case Number:  22STCV33792    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


October
  10, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV37815; 22STCV33792 (lead case)




MOTIONS


Motion
  for Protective Order




MOVING PARTY


Defendant
  Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Anuja Rane



 
 
MOTION
 
Plaintiff Anuja Rane (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendant
Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (“LACMTA”) and DOES 1
to 25, inclusive alleging causes of action (1) motor vehicle and (2) general
negligence in Case No. 22STCV37815. LACMTA now moves for a protective order
regarding Plaintiff’s Notice of Deposition of the Person Most Qualified (“PMQ”)
to testify regarding matters related to the hiring and employment of Defendant
Jon Paul Jimenez. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
“Before, during, or after a deposition, any party, any deponent, or
any other affected natural person or organization may promptly move for a
protective order. The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (a).)¿
“The court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to
protect any party, deponent, or other natural person or organization from
unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and
expense.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (b).)¿ 
 
“The court shall limit the scope of discovery if it determines that
the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of that discovery clearly outweighs the
likelihood that the information sought will lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence. The court may make this determination pursuant to a motion for
protective order by a party or other affected person. This motion shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2017.020, subd. (a).)¿ 
 
Meet and Confer
 
            LACMTA submits a declaration
attesting to meet and confer efforts made prior to the filing of this motion as
required. (Wainfeld Decl., ¶6.)
 
Motion
 
Here, LACMTA argues the deposition should not take place because LACMTA
is admitting negligence and will argue Plaintiff was negligent as well, so a
deposition of the PMQ as to the hiring and employment of Jimenez, its bus
operator has no probative value. Furthermore, LACMTA contends during the meet
and confer process Plaintiff’s counsel indicated the deposition is part of
their trial preparation and goes to the credibility of Jimenez, which LACMTA
argues would not have any relevance based on the admission of negligence. Moreover,
LACMTA asserts the deposition has no evidentiary value to any of the issues in
this case. Specifically, LACMTA asserts nothing in the deposition of the PMQ on
hiring and employment would go to the issue of causation in a Traumatic Brain
Injury. Thus, LACMTA contends the deposition of the PMQ regarding the hiring
and employment of Jimenez should not take place to prevent undue harassment and
protect privacy rights. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues LACMTA provides “zero case law”
supporting its position that an “admission of negligence negates the relevance”
of their PMQ deposition about Jimenez’s training and employment. Plaintiff also
argues LACMTA denied negligence in its Responses to Request for Admission dated
November 14, 2023 and Jimenez testified at his August 14, 2024 deposition that
he was not negligent and that Plaintiff is 100% at fault for the crash. As
such, Plaintiff contends Jimenez’s credibility will be relevant at trial
because he attempts to shift fault onto Plaintiff. In fact, Plaintiff asserts
the deposition of the PMQ is relevant to Jimenez’s claim about the training he
received and whether LACMTA’s training practices encouraged or allowed
violations of traffic laws, thus directly relevant to determine the extent of
LACMTA’s negligence and whether their training practices contributed to the
incident.  
 
In reply, LACMTA argues Jimenez has already been deposed and there is
no issue as to negligent entrustment, hiring or supervision of Jimenez because
it has not been pleaded in the Complaint. LACMTA also reiterates it has
represented to Plaintiff’s counsel it is admitting to negligence but will argue
Plaintiff was negligent as well, so it is not admitting liability. 
 
Here, Plaintiff does not address LACMTA’s argument that the complaint
does not allege negligent entrustment, hiring, or supervision of Jimenez. The
only theory of discoverability is that Jimenez’s credibility will be relevant
to the claim that Defendant is not negligent and Plaintiff is completely at
fault. As limited to issues relating to comparative fault, the motion for
protective order is denied.[1]
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court denies Defendant Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s Motion for Protective Order. 
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 


