 Case Number:  21STCV47469    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  10, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV47469




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Evan Farr DDS, Inc. dba Santo
  Tomas Dental Group  




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.     Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment; Memorandum of Points and Authorities
2.     Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts
3.     Declaration of Yee Lam in Support  
4.     Declaration of Evan Farr D.D.S. in Support
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
None
 
REPLY PAPERS
None
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On December 30, 2021, Plaintiff Blanca Reyes
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Soo Jin Chang, D.D.S., Lari
Soman Esmailian, D.D.S., Santo Tomas Dental Group, and Does 1 through 100, for
medical negligence around a procedure conducted on February 27, 2021.
 
            Defendant
Evan Farr DDS, Inc. dba Santo Tomas Dental Group (“Defendant”) now moves for summary judgment,
arguing that Defendant maintained an independent contractor relationship with
Defendants Soo Jin Chang, D.D.S. and
Lari Soman Esmailian, D.D.S. during Plaintiff’s treatment, and thus, is not
liable for their acts. 
 
Plaintiff filed a notice of non-opposition.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion
that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material fact if,
and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the
underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with
the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie
showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.;
Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474
[summary judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary
adjudication motions].)  Further, in line
with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary
adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as
to the challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable
issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise
Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co.
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the trial court grant summary
judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)  
 
DISCUSSION
 
“The general rule—to which there
are numerous exceptions—is that the hirer of an independent contractor is not
liable to third parties for the contractor's negligence.” (Millsap v.
Federal Express Corp. (1991) 227 Cal.App.3d 425, 430.) “Whether a person is
an employee or an independent contractor is ordinarily a question of fact but
if from all the facts only one inference may be drawn it is a question of law.”
(Id. at 431.) 
 
“ ‘An “independent contractor” is
generally defined as a person who is employed by another to perform work; who
pursues an “independent employment or occupation” in performing it; and who
follows the employer's “desires only as to the results of the work, and not as
to the means whereby it is to be accomplished.” [Citations.] The most
significant factor in determining the existence of an employer-independent
contractor relationship is the right to control the manner and means by which
the work is to be performed. [Citations.] “If control may be exercised only as
to the result of the work and not the means by which it is accomplished, an
independent contractor relationship is established.” [Citations.]’” (Millsap,
supra, 227 Cal.App.3d at 431.) 
 
Here, Defendant sets forth the
following facts:
 
-       
On or about February 27, 2021, at the dental offices of
Santo Tomas Dental Group, Defendant Lari Esmailian, D.D.S. began performing
dental implant and related treatment on the Plaintiff which the Plaintiff
alleges was negligently performed and caused her injury. (UMF 3.) 
-       
Beginning in or around February or March 2021,
Defendant Soo Chang D.D.S. began performing restorative dental treatment and
related treatment on the Plaintiff which the Plaintiff alleges was negligently
performed and caused her injury. (UMF 4.) 
-       
Defendant Soo Jin Chang, D.D.S. entered into an
independent contractor agreement on or about July 30, 2018 to perform specialty
dental services pertaining to prosthodontics and restorative (crown and bridge
and restorations) treatment at Moving Defendant’s dental office located at 8020
Laurel Canyon Blvd, North Hollywood CA 91605. This agreement was in effect at
all times throughout the Plaintiff’s treatment with Defendant Chang. (UMF 5.) 
-       
The independent contractor agreement provided that Dr.
Chang: was solely responsible for the specialty dental services that he
rendered, brought specialty instruments for the performance of the dental
procedures; and determined the method and means of performing those services.
(UMF 6.) 
-       
Dr. Chang was compensated based in part on the dental
procedures he performed; was free to provide specialty dental services for
other dental offices; determined his own work schedule; was provided a 1099;
and was responsible for maintaining his own professional liability insurance. (UMF
7.) 
-       
Neither this Moving Defendant nor any other dentist
associated with this Moving Defendant supervised or controlled the treatment
provided by Dr. Chang at Santo Tomas Dental Group. (UMF 8.) 
-       
Defendant Lari Soman Esmailian, D.D.S. entered into an
independent contractor agreement in 2019 to perform specialty dental services
pertaining to periodontal treatment and the placement of dental implants at
Moving Defendant’s dental office located at 8020 Laurel Canyon Blvd, North
Hollywood CA 91605. This agreement was in effect at all times throughout the
Plaintiff’s treatment with Defendant Esmailian. (UMF 9.) 
-       
The independent contractor agreement provided that Dr.
Esmailian: was solely responsible for the specialty dental services that she
rendered, brought specialty instruments for the performance of the dental
procedures; and determined the method and means of performing those services.
(UMF 10.) 
-       
Dr. Esmailian was compensated based upon the dental
procedures she performed; was free to provide specialty dental services for
other dental offices; determined her own work schedule; was provided a 1099;
and was responsible for maintaining her own professional liability insurance.
(UMF 11.) 
-       
Neither this Moving Defendant nor any other dentist associated
with this Moving Defendant supervised or controlled the treatment provided by
Dr. Esmailian at Santo Tomas Dental Group. (UMF 12.) 
 
Defendant has met its initial
burden establishing that Soo Jin Chang,
D.D.S. and Lari Soman Esmailian, D.D.S., were independent contractors.
Therefore, Defendant has shown that it is not liable for their acts. Plaintiff
has not opposed this motion and therefore, fails to meet her burden to
establish a triable issue of fact. 
 
Accordingly, the Court grants the
motion for summary judgment.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
            Based on the foregoing, Defendant Evan
Farr DDS, Inc. dba Santo Tomas Dental Group’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.
Defendant shall file a proposed judgment within 10 days. 
 
            Defendant shall
provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.
 