 Case Number:  23STCV21493    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  10, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV21493




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to be Relieved as Counsel




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Lakeview Terrace Skilled Nursing
  Facility LLC c/o Elliot Zemel’s Counsel




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendant
Lakeview Terrace Skilled Nursing Facility LLC c/o Elliot Zemel’s (Defendant) counsel of record, David J. Weiss
and Kelly L. Kiseskey from David Weiss Law (Counsel), move to be relieved as counsel for Defendant. Counsel contends relief is necessary
because there has been a breakdown in the attorney-client relationship. 
 
            No
opposition has been filed for this motion. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
To be granted relief as counsel, counsel must comply with California
Rules of Court (CRC) 3.1362. Even where grounds for termination exist,
attorneys seeking to withdraw must comply with the procedures set forth in
California Rule of Professional Conduct (CRPC) 3.700 and are subject to
discipline for failure to do so. CRPC 3.700(B) lists various grounds for
mandatory withdrawal. 
 
An attorney's right to terminate the attorney-client relationship and
withdraw from a case is not absolute. (See Vann v. Shilleh (1975) 54
Cal.App.3d 192, 197; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398.) The
decision whether to grant or deny an application for withdrawal is within the
court's discretion, and it does not abuse that discretion by denying the
application on the ground that the attorney's withdrawal would work injustice
upon a third party. (Hodcarriers, Bldg. and Common Laborers Local Union No.
89 v. Miller (1966) 243 Cal.App.2d 391.)
 
The rules have been liberally construed to protect clients. (Vann
v. Shilleh, supra, 54 Cal.App.3d 192.) An attorney, either with client's
consent or court's approval, may withdraw from a case when withdrawal can be
accomplished without undue prejudice to client's interests; however, an
attorney “shall not withdraw from employment until the member has taken
reasonable steps to avoid reasonably foreseeable prejudice to the rights of the
client, including giving due notice to the client, allowing time for employment
of other counsel, complying with rule 3-700(D), and complying with applicable
laws and rules.” (CRPC 3.700(A)(2).) A lawyer violates his or her ethical
mandate by abandoning a client (Pineda v. State Bar (1989) 49 Cal.3d
753, 758 759), or by withdrawing at a critical point and thereby prejudicing
the client’s case. (CRPC 3.700(A)(2); Vann v. Shilleh, supra.)
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Counsel has filed forms MC-051 and
MC-052 and has lodged with the Court a copy of the proposed order on form
MC-053 as required.  (Cal Rules of Court,
rule 3.1362.)  Counsel states the instant
motion is filed for the following reason: “There has been an irreconcilable
breakdown in the attorney-client relationship, as follows: 1. Elliot Zemel,
Esq., who is an active member of the California State Bar, is the principal of
defendant Lakeview Terrace Skilled Nursing Facility LLC, which has ceased
operations. Mr. Zemel has had no contact with my office since June 5, 2024,
despite multiple attempts to reach him via telephone, email, and US Mail. This
silence has rendered compliance with defendant's obligations under the
Discovery Act impossible and presents grounds for withdrawal under CRPC
3-700(C)(1)(d) at a minimum, or CRPC 3-700(B)(2). 2. There has been a breach of
the client's written fee agreement with our firm, wherein zero dollars have
been paid since inception of representation, presenting grounds for withdrawal
under CRPC 3-700(C)(1)(f). 3. Given the foregoing, California law supports
withdrawal from representation of a corporate entity where there is
noncooperation of the client and non-payment of fees. Ferruzzo v. Superior
Court (C & D Enterprises, Inc.) (1980) 104 Cal.App. 3d. 501, is
analogous to the instant circumstances.”
(MC-052.) The Court finds that this is a valid reason for withdrawal. 
 
However,
the Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel (MC-053) does
not list the client’s current address and telephone number. Consequently,
the Court orders Counsel to file within 5 calendar days of the hearing an
amended form MC-053.
 
            Further,
Counsel must serve the signed order (MC-053) within 10 days of the date of the
order, and file a proof of service of such. 
Counsel will remain the attorney of record until Counsel files and
serves the updated proposed order.  (See
Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(e).) 
 
            Accordingly,
the Court conditionally GRANTS the motion pending Counsel’s filing and service
of the updated form.  Counsel shall
provide notice of the Court’s ruling.
 
 
 