 Case Number:  21STCV36211    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT 


32 




HEARING DATE 


October 10, 2024




CASE NUMBER 


21STCV36211




MOTION  


Motion to Compel
  Deposition and Request for Sanctions




MOVING PARTIES


Plaintiff Xochitl Alvarez
  Espindola 




OPPOSING PARTY 


Defendant Luke Mitchell Crawford



 
MOTION 
 
            Plaintiff
Xochitl Alvarez Espindola moves to compel Defendant Luke Mitchell Crawford’s deposition
and seeks sanctions. Defendant Crawford opposes.
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Code Civil Procedure section¿2025.450(a)
provides:¿“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action . .
. , without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to
appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for¿inspection any
document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice
may move for an order compelling
the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document . . . described in the deposition notice.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2025.450(a).) 
Code Civil Procedure section¿2025.450(b)
provides:¿“A motion under subdivision (a)… shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to
attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored
information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance.”¿ (Id., § 2025.450(b).) 
Here, on June 6, 2024, Plaintiff served a notice of
deposition (and request for production of documents) on Defendant Crawford, set
for June 20, 2024. (Juhn Decl., ¶
5; Exh. A.) On June 17, 2024, Plaintiff, having received no
communication from Defendant regarding his scheduled deposition, proposed
continuing Defendant’s deposition to July 9, or an alternative date more
convenient. However, Defendant Crawford never proposed an alternative date. 
On July 5, 2024, Plaintiff then served an amended
notice of deposition of defendant Crawford by electronic mail for July 17,
2024. (Id., ¶ 6; Exh. B.)
On July 17, 2024, the deposition was held, however, Defendant Crawford failed
to appear. (Id., ¶ 7; Exh.
C.) 
            The court finds that the
first deposition was taken off calendar by Plaintiff’s counsel. As to the
second notice of deposition, Defendant incorrectly argues in opposition that it
was defective for failing to give proper statutory notice.
Code of Civil Procedure
section 2025.270 provides in relevant part: 
(a)¿An oral deposition shall be scheduled for a date at
least 10 days after service of the deposition notice. 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.270(a).)
Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6(a)(3)(B) states “Any period of
notice ... shall be extended after service by electronic means by two court
days.” 
            The amended notice of deposition was served on July 5,
2024, by electronic mail, and set the deposition for July 17, 2024. In order
for the amended notice to have been timely, it needed to have been served 10
days before the deposition, plus two court days for electronic service under
Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6(a)(3)(B). As such, the amended
deposition notice was not defective.
            Next, Defendant argues that
in attempting to move forward with deposition on a date Plaintiff knew that
Defendant’s counsel was unavailable, Plaintiff violated Los Angeles Superior
Court Guidelines for Civility in Litigation, Appendix 3.A. 
            Objections to a notice of the deposition are very limited
and may only pertain to errors or irregularities in the deposition notice
itself. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.410, [“Any party served with a deposition
notice that does not comply with Article 2 (commencing with Section
2025.210) waives any error or irregularity unless that party promptly
serves a written objection specifying that error or irregularity at least three
calendar days prior to the date for which the deposition is scheduled, on the
party seeking to take the deposition and any other attorney or party on whom
the deposition notice was served.].) 
Here,
even if the unilateral setting of a deposition is a proper basis for an
objection to the notice, Plaintiff’s counsel attempted to obtain convenient
dates for the deposition, to no avail. Counsel for defendant did not respond.
Accordingly, the motion is granted.
Sanctions
If a motion under CCP
section 2025.450(a) is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction in
favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the
party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (CCP
§2025.450(g)(1).)
In opposition to Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions in connection with this motion, Defendant’s counsel
argues sanctions should not be imposed against Defendant’s counsel or
Defendant. While Defendant’s counsel argues that he was reaching out to Defendant
to get available dates, Defendant does not dispute that dates were never
provided.  Moreover, defense counsel
admitted at the deposition on July 17, 2024, where Defendant failed to appear,
that he could not get in touch with Defendant due to “some issue with
communicating … and that issue has continued and that has been kind of the
source of the issue with getting dates and responding to the discovery.” (Juhn
Decl., ¶ 7; Exh. C.) Thus,
the court finds sanctions against Defendant is appropriate for failing to
respond to discovery.
However, Plaintiff is now self-represented.
Accordingly, the Court awards sanctions for the reasonable expenses incurred,
including the certificate of non-appearance and the filing fee. (See Kravitz
v. Superior Court (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 1015.) Because counsel for
Defendant demonstrates that he did not counsel the discovery abuse, sanctions
are awarded as to Defendant only.
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant
to appear for deposition. Defendant Luke Mitchell Crawford is ordered to appear for
deposition within 60 days of this order. 
 
Defendant Luke Mitchell
Crawford is ordered
to pay $676.60 in sanctions to Plaintiff within 30 days of this
order.
 
Plaintiff
is ordered to provide notice of this Order and file
proof of service of such.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 