  Case Number:  21STCV04645    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are encouraged to meet and confer
concerning this tentative ruling to determine if a resolution may be
reached.  If the parties are unable to
reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the
party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to
submit.  The email shall include the case
number, date and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if
applicable), and the identity of the party submitting on this tentative
ruling.  If the Court does not receive an
email indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there
are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar
or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  10, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV04645




MOTIONS:  


Compel
  Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant
  Uber Technologies, Inc.   




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Prince Nortey



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
August 3, 2023, Defendant Uber Technologies, Inc. (“Defendant”)
propounded Request for Production of Documents, Set One on Plaintiff Prince
Nortey (“Plaintiff”). After the Court granted Defendant’s motion to compel, Plaintiff
served responses on April 22, 2024. (Sharma Decl. ¶ 8.) 
 
On August 27, 2024, Defendant filed the instant motion to compel
further responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One. Defendant
also seeks monetary sanctions. 
 
            Plaintiff opposes[1]
and Defendant replies.
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Pragya Sharma, Defendant’s counsel, states the
following: “I met and conferred with Plaintiff's trial counsel on Plaintiff's
deficient discovery responses to Uber's Request for Production and other discovery
requests on August 2, 2024, August 6, 2024, August 7, 2024, and August 23, 2024.”
(Sharma Decl. ¶ 9.) Despite Plaintiff asserting he would serve supplemental
responses, none have been provided. (Id. ¶ 9-10.) 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310(a) provides that
on receipt of a response to a request for production of documents, the
demanding party may move for an order compelling further responses if:¿ 
¿ 
(1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete.¿ 
(2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive.¿ 
(3) An objection in the response is without merit or too
general.¿¿ 
 
A response
consisting of an objection must specify with particularly the document being
objected to, and, if based on privilege, must provide sufficient factual
information for other parties to evaluate the merits of this claim, including
if necessary, a privilege log. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.240 (b), (c).) 
¿ 
The motion must set forth specific facts showing good cause
for the discovery and include a meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.310(b).) 
 
“Unless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of
the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or
on or before any specific later date to which the demanding party and the
responding party have agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any right
to compel a further response to the demand.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(c).)
This deadline is jurisdictional, and
courts are without authority to grant untimely motions.¿ (Vidal Sassoon,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 681, 685.)¿
 
The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2031.310 (h).) 
 
“A representation of inability to comply with the
particular demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall affirm
that a diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to
comply with that demand. This statement shall also specify whether the
inability to comply is because the particular item or category has never
existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never
been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding
party. The statement shall set forth the name and address of any natural person
or organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or
control of that item or category of item.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.230.) 
 
DISCUSSION
             
            Defendant
seeks to compel further responses to numbers 1, 2, 3. These seek documents
pertaining to Plaintiff’s insurance. 
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff contends that because he served verified responses on
April 22, 2024, this motion was due on June 10, 2024 (45 days after). Plaintiff
argues that the deadline ended on June 10, 2024, and Defendant did not meet and
confer until August 2, 2024. 
 
            In reply, Defendant
notes that in its motion, it set forth that Plaintiff’s counsel agreed to a two-week
extension to file a motion to compel after Plaintiff’s amended responses were
to be served August 23, 2024, making the deadline September 6, 2024. (Sharma
Decl. ¶ 9, Exh. 3.) However, Plaintiff did not serve any amended responses.
Additionally, there is no evidence that the parties agreed in writing to extend
the motion deadline during the 45-day period. In reply, Defendant discusses no
authority showing that the agreement to re-open the motion deadline after it
expired, gives the Court jurisdiction to hear this motion. As a result, the
motion to compel further is denied.  
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, the Court DENIES Defendant’s motion to compel further
responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One, numbers 1, 2, 3. 
 
Defendant
to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 
 


