 Case Number:  22STCV30964    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  10, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV30964




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Lizeth Galvez Radillo 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the petition
filed on September 9, 2024 by Petitioner Lizeth Galvez Radillo (Petitioner) on
behalf of Claimant Julian Campos, age 13. The Court denies the petition without prejudice for the following
reasons:
 
As stated in the previous minute order, the medical records
attached do not show Claimant’s current condition since they only describe the
treatment on the day of the incident. Additionally, the medical record dated
March 17, 2022 only shows that Claimant’s stitches were removed and he was
healing well. The Court requires further records or a parent declaration
attesting that Claimant is fully recovered. 
 
Petitioner must complete all values in item 12a.  
 
In the proposed order (MC-351), item 8a1 is not legible. 
 
 
Petitioner shall give notice and file a
proof of service of such.
 