 Case Number:  24STCV07876    Hearing Date:   January 2, 2025    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 



JAN YING BENEVOLENT
  ASSOCIATION OF LOS ANGELES,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
TAK SENG WONG, et al. 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


24STCV07876




Hearing Date:


January 2, 2025




Hearing
  Time:    2:00 p.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
PLAINTIFF’S EX
  PARTE APPLICATION FOR PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION



 
Background
Plaintiff Jan Ying
Benevolent Association of Los Angeles (“JYB”) filed this action on March 28,
2024 against Defendants Tak Seng Wong, Kemi Cai, and Ze Xian Li (collectively,
“Defendants”) The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) fraud, (2) breach
of fiduciary duties and trust, (3) abuse of control, (4) corporate waste, (5)
accounting, (6) declaratory relief, (7) trespass, and (8) injunction. 
In
the Complaint, JYB alleges that it is a California nonprofit
corporation. (Compl., ¶ 1.) 
There
are currently three branches of The Jan Ying Benevolent Association: the San
Francisco Association, JYB, and the Fresno Branch. (Compl., ¶ 10.) “An
important JYB event is the annual election, where various nominees are voted on
by the Members.” (Compl., ¶ 13.) “On
or about November 10, 2023, without any right or proper authorization, WONG,
via the social media application, WeChat, sent notice to the Members and
purportedly advanced the election date from November 17, 2023, to November 12,
2023 (the ‘Sham Election’).” (Compl., ¶ 14.) “WONG knew that several
members…were not scheduled to return to the United States until after November
12, 2023. Additionally, even though candidates had not yet been chosen (which
is the traditional procedure), CAI unilaterally and without any authorization,
decided to hold the Sham Election via ballot procedure.” (Compl., ¶ 14.) 
JYB alleges that “[a]t the Sham Election, Gregory Wong presented an
unauthorized motion to add LI to the ballot as President. However, none of the
JYB members present at the Sham Election seconded the motion to add LI to the
ballot. Undeterred, CAI, who should not have been there[1],
began an immediate vote, again against all JYB rules, and pressured new members
to vote for LI.” (Compl., ¶ 15.) JYB alleges that “as the Sham Election was
conducted illegally, and without authorization, LI’s presidency was considered
by a vast majority of JYB members as a sham, just like the election was a sham.
And to complete their devious plan, WONG switched positions with LI; WONG
became the unofficial president, and LI the unofficial vice-president.”
(Compl., ¶ 16.) 
JYB alleges that “the three associations met in Los Angeles on or
about December 2, 2023, for the purpose of determining the appropriate
discipline for those members who broke JYB’s rules (the ‘December 2, 2023,
Meeting’)…Although LI attended the December 2, 2023, Meeting, LI refused to
sign the attendance log sheet, made audio and video recordings of the meeting,
and significantly disrupted the proceedings. LI was eventually escorted out of
the December 2, 2023, Meeting by police.” (Compl., ¶¶ 21-22.) JYB alleges that “[a]s
a result of all of LI’s unauthorized malicious actions in connection to his
sham election as president and the December 2, 2023, Meeting, JYB unanimously
passed the decree expelling LI not only from his leadership position within
JYB, but from JYB membership.” (Compl., ¶ 23.) “Additionally, JYB unanimously
voted to suspend WONG for five years from any positions of leadership and membership.”
(Compl., ¶ 23.) 
JYB alleges that “[d]espite the fact that CAI and LI’s memberships
were terminated, and WONG was suspended for five years starting December 2,
2023, on December 15, 2023, WONG ordered Gi Hao Cheung to file a Statement of
Information with the California Secretary of State naming himself as the Chief
Executive Officer, Steve Chan as Secretary, and Sin Ling Wong as Chief
Financial Officer…WONG used the address of JYB’s real property, located at 736
North Yale Street, Los Angeles, California 90012 (the ‘Clubhouse’) as each
officer’s address even though he had no right to use the Clubhouse for any
purpose whatsoever.” (Compl., ¶ 25.) “On December 23, 2023, WONG, CAI and LI
locked out and physically blocked JYB members from entering the Clubhouse.”
(Compl., ¶ 27.) 
JYB alleges that “[d]espite demands by JYB to DEFENDANTS to cease and
desist all unauthorized activities, and to recognize the true leadership,
DEFENDANTS have doubled down, taken control of JYB’s Clubhouse, privately
controlled the finances, hidden the corporate seal, have attempted to highjack
control of JYB, and have locked JYB membership out of the Clubhouse.” (Compl.,
¶ 29.) JYB alleges that “WONG is using JYB’s corporate bank accounts as his own
personal accounts and WONG has stolen and misappropriated significant funds
from these accounts.” (Compl., ¶ 30.) 
            JYB
now applies ex parte for a temporary restraining order and an order to
show cause why a preliminary injunction should not issue for certain specified
relief. (See Ex Parte Application at p. 2:1-22.) Defendants oppose. 
Discussion
A temporary restraining
order may issue when “[i]t appears from facts shown by affidavit or by the
verified complaint that great or irreparable injury will result to the
applicant before the matter can be heard on notice.” ((Code Civ. Proc., § 527, subd. (c)(1).) “[T]rial courts should evaluate two interrelated factors when
deciding whether or not to issue [a restraining order]. The first is the
likelihood that the plaintiff will prevail on the merits at trial. The second
is the interim harm that the plaintiff is likely to sustain if the [restraining
order] were denied as compared to the harm that the defendant is likely to
suffer if the [order] were issued.” ((Church
of Christ in Hollywood v. Superior Court (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 1244, 1251.) 
 
“The
trial court’s determination must be guided by a mix of the
potential-merit and interim-harm factors; the greater the plaintiff’s showing
on one, the less must be shown on the other to support [a restraining order]…Of
course, [t]he scope of available preliminary relief is necessarily limited by
the scope of the relief likely to be obtained at trial on the merits…A
trial court may not grant a [restraining order], regardless
of the balance of interim harm, unless there is some possibility that the
plaintiff would ultimately prevail on the merits of the claim.”(Church of Christ in Hollywood v. Superior Court, supra, 99 Cal.App.4th at pp.
1251-1252 [internal
quotations omitted].) 
            Furthermore,
“an injunctive order should
be limited in scope to the subject of the litigation.” ((City of Redlands v.
County of San Bernardino (2002) 96
Cal.App.4th 398, 415.)
            Here, JYB seeks
a temporary restraining order and an order to show cause why a
preliminary injunction should not issue for the following relief: 
 
“1. For Defendants, Tak Seng Wong…Kemi Cai…and Zi
Xian Li…(collectively referred to as ‘DEFENDANTS’), and each of them, to allow
all JYB members, officers and board members, including those individuals listed
in Exhibit C (Elected Staff Roster 2025), to freely enter and use the JYB
headquarters – located at 736 North Yale Street, Los Angeles, California 90012
(the ‘Clubhouse’) – at their will; 
 
2. For
DEFENDANTS, in order to effectuate request Number 1, to issue keys to all
gates, doors and any other locks located on the Clubhouse premises, to Mr. Hui
Reng Huang, Vincent Wong, Xiliang Yu, Bai Yan Chen and Lida Ko; 
 
3. For
DEFENDANTS to remove any signs posted on Clubhouse gates, walls and doors, and
to refrain from posting any such signs in the future; 
 
4. For
DEFENDANTS to refrain from holding themselves out as members and/or officers of
JYB; 
 
5. For
DEFENDANTS to deliver JYB’s financial books of accounting to Ms. Lida Ko; and 
 
6. For
DEFENDANTS to turn over all of JYB’s corporate documents.” (Ex Parte Application
at p. 2:5-22.) 
            As an
initial matter, in the opposition, Defendants state that they object “to
the ex parte notice…because no notice was telephonically made to [Defendants’
counsel]…” (Opp’n at p. 1:26-27.) However, Defendants do not cite any legal
authority indicating that JYB is required to provide notice of the ex parte
application telephonically. Pursuant to California Rules
of Court, rule 3.1203,
subdivision (a), “[a] party seeking an ex parte order must notify all
parties no later than 10:00 a.m. the court day before the ex parte appearance,
absent a showing of exceptional circumstances that justify a shorter time for
notice.” Pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 3.1204,
subdivision (a), “[w]hen notice of an
ex parte application is given, the person giving notice must: (1) State with specificity the nature of the relief to be
requested and the date, time, and place for the presentation of the
application; and (2) Attempt to determine whether the opposing party will
appear to oppose the application.” 
            JYB’s counsel
indicates that on December 19, 2024 at 8:54 a.m., he sent an email to
Defendants’ counsel providing, inter alia, “[p]lease take notice that
counsel for Plaintiff, Jan Ying Benevolent Association of Los Angeles, will be
going in ex parte on Friday, December 20, 2024 at 8:30 A.M. in Department 50 of
the Los Angeles Superior Court, Stanley Mosk Courthouse, located at 111 North
Hill Street, Los Angeles, California 90012, to request an Ex Parte Order for a
Preliminary Injunction. Please let me know if you plan on opposing this ex
parte motion…” (Yim Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A.)[2]
            In the ex parte application, JYB asserts
that it has a high likelihood of success on the merits because “Defendants are
neither members, officers nor directors of JYB,” and “[t]he current officers
and directors of JYB were duly elected.” (Ex Parte Application at p. 8:17;
8:27.) 
As an initial matter, JYB’s ex parte application does not appear to
discuss any of the causes of action alleged in the Complaint. As set forth
above, the Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) fraud, (2) breach of fiduciary duties and trust, (3) abuse of
control, (4) corporate waste, (5) accounting, (6) declaratory relief, (7)
trespass, and (8) “injunction.” The ex parte application does not discuss the
elements of these causes of action or contain any analysis as to why JYB will
purportedly prevail on the merits as to the causes of action. As discussed
above, “[a] trial court may
not grant a [restraining order], regardless of the balance of interim
harm, unless there is some possibility that the plaintiff would ultimately
prevail on the merits of the claim.” ((Church of Christ in
Hollywood v. Superior Court, supra,
99 Cal.App.4th at p. 1252.) The Court does not find that JYB has met
its burden of demonstrating a likelihood of prevailing on the merits of its
causes of action.  
            JYB also argues that “[i]f this
Application is not granted, and DEFENDANTS are able [to] exclude said members,
officers and directors, the irreparable harm suffered by JYB will grow until
the company eventually collapses.” (Ex Parte Application at p. 9:24-26.)
However, JYB does not appear to cite to any evidence to support this argument.
As discussed, the second factor relevant to the determination of whether or not
to issue a temporary restraining order is “the interim harm that the
plaintiff is likely to sustain if the restraining order were denied as compared
to the harm that the defendant is likely to suffer if the order were issued.” (Church of Christ in Hollywood v. Superior
Court, supra, 99 Cal.App.4th at p. 1251 [internal brackets omitted].)
It is unclear what purported evidence (if any) JYB is relying on to show the
interim harm it is allegedly likely to sustain if the temporary restraining
order is denied. JYB also argues, without citing to any supporting evidence,
that “by keeping the status quo, DEFENDANTS will suffer no harm whatsoever.”
(Ex Parte Application at p. 10:1-2.) 
            In light of the foregoing, the Court
denies JYB’s ex parte application for a temporary restraining order and an
order to show cause why a preliminary injunction should not issue.  
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, JYB’s ex parte application is denied.  
JYB is ordered to give notice of this Order.
 
DATED:  January 2, 2025                              ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


