 Case Number:  22STCV06463    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  29 TENTATIVE 
 
Plaintiff’s motion for service by publication or posting is DENIED
WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
 
Background 
 
On February 22, 2022, Plaintiff Salaheddine El Moqaddem
filed a verified complaint alleging causes of action for: (1) trespassing/home
invasion; (2) negligent trespassing; (3) property damage; (4) intentional
infliction of emotional distress; and (5) negligent infliction of emotional
distress. The complaint alleges that Defendant Albert Gregory Pinto
(“Defendant”) trespassed and broke into Plaintiff’s home on two occasions. 
 
On April 8, 2022, Plaintiff filed a
proof of service indicating that Defendant was served by mail with the summons
and complaint. 
 
On
May 3, 2022, Plaintiff’s first request for entry of default was rejected on the
ground that the alleged service occurred prior to the date the summons was
issued.
 
That
same day, on May 3, 2022, Plaintiff filed another proof of service.  Two days later, Plaintiff filed a second request
for entry of default.  That request was
denied on various grounds, including inconsistencies in the dates of service,
the failure to provide proof of receipt, and the use of an incorrect court
form.
 
Additional
requests for entry of default were rejected on June 2 and June 15, 2022, for
reasons stated in the notices of rejection. 
 
On
August 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to serve by publication or
posting.  Plaintiff contends that
Plaintiff has not been unable to personally serve Defendant at his place of
residence in Brownwood, Texas, and that Defendant cannot be found by any
process server to receive the summons and complaint in person. 
 
While
noticed as a motion, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s motion does not contain a
memorandum of points and authorities as required by California Rules of
Court, Rule 3.113(a). The Court recognizes that Plaintiff is a pro per litigant.  Litigants who represent themselves in pro
per are held to the same standards as attorneys.  (Kobayashi v. Superior Court (2009)
175 Cal.App.4th 536, 543.) While deficient on this ground, the Court will still
address the merits of the motion. 
 
 
Legal
Standard 
 
It is well established that an
order for service by publication requires that the necessary facts be
established to the satisfaction of the court. (Quaranta v. Merlini (1987)
192 Cal.App.3d 22, 29.) A summons may be served by publication if upon
affidavit it appears to the satisfaction of the court in which the action is
pending “that the party to be served cannot with reasonable diligence be served
in another manner.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.50,
subd. (a).)  Proof of reasonable
diligence generally requires admissible evidence that plaintiff or counsel undertook
such efforts as conducting searches of addresses with the post office, accessing
internet service providers that collect data for locating people, contacting relatives
or others who know defendant to obtain current address information, and other appropriate
efforts under all of the circumstances. 
The basic test is whether the evidence shows that plaintiff took “those
steps which a reasonable person who truly desired to give notice would have
taken under the circumstances.”  (Donel,
Inc. v. Badalian (1978) 87 Cal.App.3d 327, 333.) 
  
Discussion 
 
 
The Court finds
that Plaintiff has not made the required showing for publication notice.  In particular, Plaintiff appears to have, or
have had, a valid out-of-state address for Defendant.  If that is the case, Defendant can be served
by (among other methods) mail notice, with a return receipt requested.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 415.40.)  Accordingly, the motion is DENIED.
 
The denial is
without prejudice.  Plaintiff may refile
but must submit admissible evidence showing (a) that he has used all reasonable
efforts to serve Defendant by means other than by publication, including mail
notice, substitute service, and personal service; and (b) that he has exercised
reasonable diligence in attempting to identify Defendant’s current address.
 
Conclusion 
 
Accordingly, the Court DENIES
Plaintiff’s motion for service by publication or posting without prejudice. 
 