  Case Number:  20STCV25567    Hearing Date:   February 9, 2024    Dept:  39 The Hakala Law
Group, P.C. v. Paul Kozlov, et al.
Case No.
20STCV25567
Motions for Order
of Sale of Dwelling
Motion to Set
Aside Default/Default Judgment
 
            The Hakala
Law Group, P.C. (“Plaintiff’) filed this action on July 20, 2020, asserting
causes of action for breach of contract, unjust enrichment, and fraud against
several defendants, including Paul Kozlov (“Defendant”) stemming from unpaid
legal fees.  Default was entered against
Defendant on September 1, 2020.
 
            On November
9, 2020, Plaintiff filed a notice of settlement with respect to other
defendants in the case.  A default
judgment was entered against the remaining defendants, including Defendant, on
March 12, 2021.  On September 10, 2021,
Defendant filed a motion to set aside default and default judgment based upon a
lack of service.  Then, on April 13,
2022, defendant withdrew the motion.  Unbeknownst
to the Court, Plaintiff and Defendant settled this action on April 6,
2022.  (See Declaration of Paul Kozlov,
Exh. A.)  The settlement agreement
provided that Defendant would pay a total of $32,717.56, of which $17,717.56
had already been paid.  (See id., ¶ 1.2.)  Defendant agreed to pay the remaining $15,000
in installments over the course of nine months. 
(See ibid.)  Defendant agreed take
the motion to set aside default and default judgment off-calendar as part of
the settlement agreement.  (See id., ¶
1.4.)  Instead, the parties agreed that
Plaintiff would file a request for dismissal with prejudice within ten business
days of Defendant’s final payment.  (See
ibid.)  Plaintiff did not file a notice
of settlement as required by California Rules of Court, rule 3.1385, so the
Court was unaware of the parties’ settlement.  The settlement agreement provides that the
Court shall retain jurisdiction to enforce the agreement under Code of Civil
Procedure section 664.6.  (See ibid.)
 
            On
September 7 and 8, 2023, Plaintiff filed applications seeking orders
authorizing the sale of residential property. 
Nowhere in the applications did Plaintiff inform the Court that there
had been a settlement agreement and that Defendant had paid at least some of
the judgment.  Rather, Plaintiff
represented:
 
“On or about March 12, 2021, a Judgment was entered in this
case in favor of The Hakala Law Group, P.C. (hereinafter ‘Judgment Creditor’)
and against Paul Kozlov (hereinafter ‘Judgment Debtor’) in the amount of
$123,279.78.  The Judgment is not based
on a consumer debt.  A true and correct
copy of the Judgment is attached as Exhibit ‘A’ to the Declaration of Martin B.
Greenbaum (hereinafter ‘Declaration’). 
The Judgment has not been paid. 
See Declaration.”
 
(Plaintiff’s Applications, ¶¶ 7 & 8.)  The accompanying declaration contains the
same representations and does not inform the Court that there was a settlement
agreement in this case, which was allegedly breached, giving rise to these
applications.  (See Declaration of Martin
B. Greenbaum, ¶¶ 3 & 4.)  
 
            In
response, Defendant filed a motion titled “Motion to set aside fault and find
determination of good faith settlement and for an award of attorney’s costs and
fees.”  Defendant argues that he complied
with the settlement agreement, having made all required payments, which
Plaintiff accepted.  Defendant also
argues that even if there was a breach of the agreement, Plaintiff did not
follow the required procedure to declare a breach.  Based upon the foregoing, Plaintiff seeks a
dismissal of the case, per the settlement agreement.  The Court has jurisdiction to enforce the
settlement agreement because the parties stipulated that the Court could retain
jurisdiction under section 664.6.
 
The Court construes Defendant’s
motion as one to enforce the settlement agreement, which seeks dismissal with
prejudice.  Code of Civil Procedure
section 664.6 provides that “[i]f parties to pending litigation stipulate, in a
writing signed by the parties outside the presence of the court or orally
before the court, for settlement of the case, or part thereof, the court, upon
motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 664.6.)  In ruling on a motion to enter judgment, the Court
acts as a trier of fact.  The Court must
determine whether the parties entered into a valid and binding settlement.  To do so, the Court may receive oral testimony
in addition to declarations.  (Kohn v. Jaymar-Ruby, Inc. (1994) 23
Cal.App.4th 1530, 1533.)  
 
            Plaintiff’s
counsel argues that Defendant breached the settlement agreement but advances no
evidence in support of those assertions. 
(See Plaintiff’s Opposition, pp. 13-14.) 
Admittedly, the notice of motion is not a model of clarity, and
Plaintiff’s counsel may not have understood that he would need to litigate this
issue.  Therefore, to ensure proper
notice and opportunity to be heard, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The Court provides notice that it
construes Plaintiff’s motion as a motion to enforce the settlement agreement
under Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6, which seeks a dismissal with
prejudice, based upon the contents of the notice of motion and memorandum of
points and authorities.  
 
            2.         The Court advances and continues the
hearings on the pending motions to April 11, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
            3.         Defendant may file a supplement to the
motion, which includes any evidence concerning his compliance with the
settlement agreement that was omitted from the prior motion.  
 
            4.         Plaintiff may file a supplemental
opposition to the motion, which includes any evidence concerning Defendant’s
alleged breach of the settlement agreement.
 
            5.         Defendant may file a supplemental reply
brief.
 
            6.         All briefing shall be due based upon
statutory deadlines.
 
            7.         The Court’s clerk shall provide
notice.  
 
             