  Case Number:  21SMCV01761    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Calemzuk v. Corral
360, et al.
CASE NO.:                21SMCV01761
MOTION:                  Motion
to Add Judgment Debtor
HEARING DATE:   3/26/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
            The Court may amend a judgment to
add an alter ego of an original judgment debtor, and thereby make the
additional judgment debtor liable on the judgment. (CCP § 187; Highland
Springs Conference & Training Center v. City of Banning¿(2016) 244
Cal.App.4th 267, 280.) To prevail on the motion, the judgment creditor must
show, by a preponderance of the evidence, that: “(1) the parties to be added as
judgment debtors had control of the underlying litigation and were virtually
represented in that proceeding; (2) there is such a unity of interest and
ownership that the separate personalities of the entity and the owners no
longer exist; and (3) an inequitable result will follow if the acts are treated
as those of the entity alone.” (Relentless Air Racing, LLC v. Airborne
Turbine Ltd. Partnership (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 811, 815–816.) The court is
not required to hold an evidentiary hearing on a motion to amend a judgment,
but may rule on the motion based solely on declarations and other written
evidence. (Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. v. Weinberg¿(2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 1,
9.) 
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiff Emiliano Calemzuk moves to amend the judgment in
this action to add Alejandro Corral as an additional Judgment Debtor under Code
of Civil Procedure (CCP) section 187. Judgment was entered against the sole
defendant, Defendant Corral 360 Inc., and in favor of Plaintiff, on January 28,
2022, for the principal amount of $58,540.00. Mr. Corral is allegedly the
principal of Defendant. Plaintiff argues that Corral 360 is merely a shell
corporation that has been suspended for years, intended to solely benefit its
principal Alex Corral, and thus Mr. Corral should be liable for the judgment.
 
“Modification of a judgment may be proper when the
newly-named defendant is an existing defendant’s alter ego. ‘Under the alter
ego doctrine, ... when the corporate form is used to perpetrate a fraud,
circumvent a statute, or accomplish some other wrongful or inequitable purpose,
the courts will ignore the corporate entity and deem the corporation’s acts to
be those of the persons ... actually controlling the corporation, in most
instances the equitable owners. The alter ego doctrine prevents individuals ...
from misusing the corporate laws by the device of a sham corporate entity
formed for the purpose of committing fraud or other misdeeds.” (Wolf
Metals Inc. v. Rand Pacific Sales, Inc. (2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 698, 703, citations
omitted.)
 
“Before the alter ego doctrine will be invoked in
California, two conditions generally must be met. ‘First, there must be such a
unity of interest and ownership between the corporation and its equitable owner
that the separate personalities of the corporation and the shareholder do not
in reality exist. Second, there must be an inequitable result if the acts in
question are treated as those of the corporation alone.’ While courts have
developed a list of factors that may be analyzed in making these determinations,
‘[t]here is no litmus test to determine when the corporate veil will be
pierced; rather the result will depend on the circumstances of each particular
case.’” (Curci Investments, LLC v. Baldwin (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th
214, 220–221, citations and alterations omitted.)
 
 “The first
requirement for disregarding the corporate entity under the alter ego
doctrine—whether there is sufficient unity of interest and ownership that the
separate personalities of the individual and the corporation no longer
exist—encompasses a series of factors. Among the many factors to be considered
in applying the doctrine are one individual’s ownership of all stock in a
corporation; use of the same office or business location; commingling of funds
and other assets of the individual and the corporation; an individual holding
out that he is personally liable for debts of the corporation; identical
directors and officers; failure to maintain minutes or adequate corporate
records; disregard of corporate formalities; absence of corporate assets and inadequate
capitalization; and the use of a corporation as a mere shell, instrumentality
or conduit for the business of an individual. This list of factors is not
exhaustive, and these enumerated factors may be considered with others under
the particular circumstances of each case. ‘No single factor is determinative,
and instead a court must examine all the circumstances to determine whether to
apply the doctrine.’” (Misik v. D’Arco (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 1065,
1073, as modified (Aug. 9, 2011), citations omitted.)
 
 “The second requirement for application of the
alter ego doctrine is a finding that the facts are such that adherence to the
fiction of the separate existence of the corporation would sanction a fraud or
promote injustice. The test for this requirement is that if the acts are
treated as those of the corporation alone, it will produce an unjust or
inequitable result.” (Misik, supra, 197 Cal.App.4th at 1073; NEC Elecs. Inc. v. Hurt
(1989) 208 Cal. App. 3d 772, 777 [evidence discloses that Hurt depleted the assets
of debtor-corporation by receiving approximately $2.8 million in “loans” and by
using corporate moneys to pay for his personal expenses].)
Plaintiff presents evidence that
Mr. Corral is the sole person Plaintiff interacted with in relation to the
subject funds. (Calemzuk Decl., ¶¶ 3-10.) In the years leading to this
litigation, Corral reassured Plaintiff multiple times that he would repay the
money loaned to him, “personally guaranteeing” repayment. (Id., ¶ 4.) Even
following judgment, Mr. Corral said that he would repay Plaintiff. (Id., ¶5.) Plaintiff
also provides that Mr. Corral committed to paying $5,000.00 per month for 13
months to pay off the judgment, and that the only two payments came from Mr.
Corral. (Id., ¶¶13-14.) Mr. Corral is listed as Defendant’s sole officer (Chief
Executive Officer, Secretary, Chief Financial Officer), sole director, and also
as the designated Agent for Service of Process by the Secretary of State. (Id.,
Ex. C.) Plaintiff also notes that the court found good cause to issue an order
to appear for examination to Mr. Corral on behalf of Corral 360 Inc., and
issued a bench warrant against Corral 360 for Mr. Corral’s failure to appear. Plaintiff
notes that Corral 360 is suspended by the secretary of state, apparently for
failure to pay taxes. (Id., Ex. D.) From this evidence, the Court concludes
that Mr. Corral is the sole officer, director and agent of service of process
for Corral, and that Mr. Corral guided Corral 360’s defense to this litigation.
(See Id., ¶ 17.) 
 
The
Court also notes that Plaintiff has attempted to collect against Corral 360 via
certain post-judgment collection methods and certain post-judgment discovery.
No responsive documents, particularly corporate records such as minutes or
financial records, were ever produced. (Supp. Masserat Decl., ¶ 4.) Mr. Corral
has told counsel that no corporate records exist for production. (Id., ¶ 5, Ex.
B.) Mr. Corral has also stated there are no corporate bank accounts or assets
to disclose (or pursue). (Id., ¶ 6.) Mr. Corral also
failed to appear at an ORAP on behalf of Corral 360. 
The above evidence presents several
factors that establish a unity of interest between Mr. Corral and Corral 350.
Mr. Coral is the sole proprietor of Corral 360. Mr. Corral held himself out as
personally liable for the debts of Corral 360 by his promises to pay the
judgment and personally paying a portion of said judgment. Mr. Corral also
controlled Corral 360’s defense of this litigation. Mr. Corral apparently did
not respect corporate formalities, as no corporate records exist, such as
minutes or for finances. Thus, Mr. Corral used Corral
360 as a shell for his personal business and did not adhere to corporate formalities. Further, the record
shows that Corral 360 lacks sufficient capitalization. Plaintiff thus cannot
recover directly from Corral 360. It would be inequitable
to allow Mr. Corral to avoid liability through his use of a corporate shell, Corral
360.
 
Plaintiff
therefore shows the necessary alter-ego factors. Accordingly, the motion is
GRANTED.