 Case Number:  22SMCV02253    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Finerty v. Lobb
& Plewe LLP, et al.
CASE NO.:                22SMCV02253
MOTION:                  Motion
for Determination of Good Faith Settlement
HEARING DATE:   3/26/2024
 
Legal
Standard
 
In an action in which it is alleged
that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract
debt, a party to that action may file a motion seeking a determination from the
court that the settlement between the plaintiff or other claimant and one or
more alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors was made in good faith. (CCP § 877.6(a).)
The notice of motion or application for good faith determination must list each
party and pleading or portion of pleading affected by the settlement and the
date on which the affected pleading was filed. (CRC Rule 3.1382.)
 
The California Supreme Court in Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde &
Assoc. (1985) 38 Cal.3d
488, established the standard for determining whether a settlement was made in
good faith. Under Tech-Bilt,
the following factors are considered: (1) a rough approximation of plaintiff’s
total recovery and the settlor’s proportionate liability; (2) the amount paid
in settlement; (3) the allocation of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs; (4)
a recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement than he would if he
were found liable after a trial; (5) the financial conditions and insurance
policy limits of settling defendants; and (6) the existence of collusion,
fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of the non-settling
defendants. (Id. at 498-501.) Additionally,
the evaluation must be made based on the information available at the time of
settlement. (Id. at 599.)
 
Where good faith is contested, the
moving party must make a sufficient showing of all the Tech-Bilt factors, which can be
made in the moving papers or in counter-declarations filed after the
nonsettling defendants have filed an opposition. (City of Grand Terrace v.
Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261-62.) “Once there is a
showing made by the settlor of the settlement, the burden of proof on the issue
of good faith shifts to the non-settlor who asserts that the settlement was not
made in good faith.” (Id. at 1262; CCP § 877.6(d).) In other
words, the nonsettling defendant should demonstrate “that the settlement is so
far ‘out of the ballpark’ in relation to the [Tech-Bilt] factors as to be inconsistent” with a settlement
made in good faith. (Id. at 500.)
 
However, where good faith is
uncontested, a “barebones motion which sets forth the ground of good faith,
accompanied by a declaration which sets forth a brief background of the case,
is sufficient.” (See Grand Terrace,
supra,192 Cal.App.3d
at 1261 [holding that when no one objects to a motion for good faith
determination, a barebones motion that sets forth the ground of good faith,
accompanied by a declaration that set forth a brief background of the case was
sufficient in action where motion only discussed two of the Tech-Bilt factors, settlement amount and policy limits and declaration only
gave a brief background of the case].)
 
If the court makes a good faith
determination, the court may dismiss the settling party from comparative
indemnity claims if the settling party has made such a request at the time of
making the good faith motion. (CCP §§ 877, 877.6(c); CRC Rule 3.1382.)
 
Analysis
 
Defendants Pico & Pico,
Attorneys at Law and Jasmine Pico move for a determination of good faith
settlement with Plaintiffs Cynthia D. Finerty and RSH Properties I LLC.
 
The motion is unopposed. Thus, a
“barebones motion” is sufficient. (Grand Terrace, supra, 192 Cal.App.3d at 1261.) Defendant’s notice
provides each party and pleading affected by the settlement. Defendants’ motion
and declaration provides the background of the case, the procedural history of
the case, and a basis for the Tech-Bilt
factors described above. (Lupton Decl., ¶¶ 2-13.) The $229,528.10 settlement
offer appears to be in the “ballpark” of a good faith settlement. (Id., ¶ 7.) The
Court therefore finds the settlement was made in good faith. (CCP § 877.6(a).)
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ motion is
GRANTED. 