 Case Number:  22STCV32586    Hearing Date:   March 29, 2024    Dept:  27 HON. LEE S. ARIAN DEPARTMENT 27 TENTATIVE RULING ¿¿ Hearing Date:  3/29/2024 at 1:30 p.m. Case No./Name: 22STCV32586 MAHDAD SEYED BERENJI vs MAGPIES SOFTSERVE Motion: MOTIONS FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT Moving Parties: Defendants Magpies Softserve, Warren Schwartz, and Rose Schwartz; Cross-Defendant Peterberg Construction, Inc. Responding Party:  Unopposed Notice:    Sufficient ¿ Ruling: MOTIONS FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT ARE GRANTED.   Background  On October 5, 2022, Plaintiff filed a premises liability claim against Defendants Magpies Softserve, Warren Schwartz, Rose Schwartz (“Defendants"), and Peterburg Construction, Inc. Plaintiff alleges that he fell from a ladder while trying to reach the top of the walk-in cooler. Defendants assert they contracted Peterburg Construction, a general contractor, to remodel a space they leased for their business. Plaintiff, a subcontractor for Peterburg, was not under Defendants’ control. Consequently, Defendants now move the Court for summary judgment on the grounds that subcontractors cannot sue a hirer under the Privette Doctrine and Defendants did not retain control over Plaintiff’s work in a manner that affirmatively contributed to his injuries. Plaintiff did not file an opposition.¿¿  Legal Standard¿¿¿  The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite its allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve its dispute.” Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843. “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.¿¿¿¿¿ ¿¿¿¿ A “defendant moving for summary judgment must show the plaintiff’s causes of action have¿no merit.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.¿(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 849, emphasis added.) In other words, summary judgment is not to be granted simply because a case is “weak” or because a “weak” showing was made in opposition. (Hagen v. Hickenbottom¿(1995) 41 Cal.App.4th 168, 187-188, superseded by statute on another point as recognized in¿Rice v. Clark¿(2002) 28 Cal.4th 89, 96;¿Mamou v. Trendwest Resorts, Inc.¿(2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 589, 722. [“to avoid summary judgment a showing need not be strong; it need only be sufficient to raise a triable issue of fact.”].)¿¿¿¿ ¿¿¿ “On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.” Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519. A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” CCP § 437c(p)(2). “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” CCP § 437c(p)(2).¿¿¿¿   The Privette Doctrine  “The Privette doctrine holds that a hirer generally delegates to an independent contractor all responsibility for workplace safety and is not liable for injuries sustained by the contractor or its workers while on the job.” (Gonzalez v. Mathis (2018) 12 Cal.5th 29, 40 (Gonzalez).)  Privette and its progeny establish a presumption that “an independent contractor’s hirer delegates to that contractor the responsibility to perform the specified work safely.”  (SeaBright Ins. Co. v. US Airways, Inc. (2011) 52 Cal.4th 590, 594 (SeaBright).)  This presumption affects the burden of producing evidence.  (Alvarez v. Seaside Transportation Services LLC (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 635, 643.)   “The effect of a presumption affecting the burden of producing evidence is to require the trier of fact to assume the existence of the presumed fact unless and until evidence is introduced which would support a finding of its nonexistence, in which case the trier of fact shall determine the existence or nonexistence of the presumed fact from the evidence and without regard to the presumption.”  (Id. at p. 644, citing Evid. Code, § 604.)¿ “[O]n summary judgment, a moving party need only show it is entitled to the benefit of a presumption affecting the burden of producing evidence in order to shift the burden of proof to the opposing party to show there are triable issues of fact.” (Id.)  “A presumption affecting the burden of producing evidence does not arise until the foundational facts are established.”  (Id.)  The Retained Control Exception  In¿Hooker v. Department of Transportation¿(2002) 27 Cal.4th 198 (Hooker), the California Supreme Court held that “a hirer may be liable when it retains control over any part of the independent contractor’s work and negligently exercises that retained control in a manner that affirmatively contributes to the worker’s injury.”  (Gonzalez, supra, 12 Cal.5th at 38 [cleaned up]; see CACI No. 1009B [When a plaintiff claims he or she was harmed by an unsafe condition while employed by a contractor and while performing the work for the which the defendant hired the contractor to perform, the plaintiff must prove that (1) the defendant retained some control over the contractor’s manner of performance of the contracted work, (2) that the defendant actually exercised its retained control over that work, (3) that the plaintiff was harmed, and (4) that defendant’s negligent exercise of its retained control affirmatively contributed to plaintiff’s harm.].)  This exception includes “three key concepts: retained control, actual exercise, and affirmative contribution.”  (McCullar v. SMC Contracting, Inc. (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1005, 1014 (McCullar), citing, Sandoval, supra, 12 Cal.5th at p. 274, 283 (emphasis added.); see also Miller, supra, [It applies if: (1) the hirer retains control over the manner in which the contractor performs the work; (2) the hirer actually exercises its retained control by involving itself in the work such that the contractor is not entirely free to do the work in its own manner; and (3) the hirer's exercise of retained control affirmatively contributes to the worker's injury].) “The Hooker exception to Privette is triggered only when all three of these concepts—retained control, actual exercise, and affirmative contribution—are satisfied.” (McCullar, supra, 83 Cal.App.5th at 1015.) Analysis and Conclusion  Defendants have met their initial burden of establishing the Privette presumption where a hirer is not liable for injuries sustained by subcontractors. Warren Schwartz and Rose Schwartz, owners of Magpies Softserve, leased the space located at 5049 York Boulevard, Los Angeles for their SoftServe store. (Exhibit A.) They hired Peterburg Construction, Inc. as a general contractor for the remodeling of the premises. (Exhibit B.) Peterburg Construction hired Plaintiff as a subcontractor to perform electrical services for the remodeling. (Exhibit C – Plaintiff Depo. 16:7-9.) Defendants have met their initial burden by showing that Plaintiff is a subcontractor working for Peterburg Construction. Plaintiff did not file an opposition and thereby failed to raise a triable issue of material fact.  Defendants have also met their initial burden that they did not retain control over Plaintiff. Defendants were not responsible for communicating, coordinating, defining the scope of work, approving the work, or entering into direct contract arrangements with any of the subcontractors, including Plaintiff. (Exhibit E – Warren Schwartz Depo. 15:13 to 16:14.) On the date of the incident, Plaintiff was attempting to climb a ladder to the top of the walk-in cooler to access the attic when he fell. (Plaintiff Depo. 28:14-29:9.) Prior to the fall, Plaintiff exited the property to retrieve an extension-type ladder. Defendant Warren Schwartz, who was present on the premises at that time, neither directed Plaintiff to obtain the ladder nor instructed him to use it to climb to the top of the walk-in cooler. Defendant Schwartz assumed Plaintiff knew what he was doing, left Plaintiff alone and focused on his own tasks. (Schwartz Depo. 32:14 to 36:15.) Plaintiff was solely involved in setting up and using the ladder. (Plaintiff Depo. 105:6-106:8.)  Defendants did not own, control or set up the ladder that Plaintiff fell from. (Exhibit D – Declaration of Warren Schwartz.) Defendants have met their initial burden, demonstrating that the ladder was not their property and they exercised no control over Plaintiff regarding its use. Plaintiff did not file an opposition and thereby failed to raise a triable issue of material fact.  Accordingly, Defendants’ motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.   PETERBURG CONSTRUCTION'S MSJ AGAINST DEFENDANTS MAGPIES SOFTSERVE, WARREN SCHWARTZ, AND ROSE SCHWARTZ’S CLAIM FOR INDEMNITY  Since the Court granted Defendants’ MSJ against Plaintiff, Cross-Defendant Peterburg Construction's MSJ against Defendants’ claim for indemnity is GRANTED because there can be no indemnity without liability.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:¿  If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.  Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.  If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 