 Case Number:  23VECV01079    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  W ELLEN S.
DURANT, et al. v. CONSTANCE ADLER GALLOWAY, et al.
 
Defendant CONSTANCE ADLER GALLOWAY’s
motion to quash service of summons and complaint 
 
Date of Hearing:        April
17, 2024                                    Trial
Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        23VECV01079
 
Moving Party:            Defendant Constance Adler Galloway
Responding Party:     None 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 10, 2023, Plaintiffs Ellen S.
Durant and David E. Durant filed a complaint against Defendants Constance Adler
Galloway, Hanibal Design Carlisle, and Urban Bilial Carlisle for breach of
contract, intentional misrepresentation, and financial elder abuse.  Plaintiffs filed an amended complaint on
January 19, 2024.  Plaintiffs allege Ellen,
who is 89 years old, purchased a 3-bedroom condominium. David is Ellen’s son.
Plaintiffs further allege Constance befriended Ellen and Ellen considered
Constance like a daughter. Constance informed Ellen she could act as a property
manager for the condominium. Plaintiffs allege in 2020, Constance signed a
lease with Defendants Hanibal and Urban to rent one of the bedrooms in the
condominium. In 2021, Plaintiffs decided to sell the property. Shortly
thereafter, the friendship between Ellen and Constance deteriorated. Plaintiffs
allege then Constance orchestrated a police action, where police disrupted Ellen’s
convalescence and quiet enjoyment of the Property. Moreover, Constance accepted
rent from Defendants Hanibal and Urban against Plaintiffs’ wishes. Plaintiffs
wired $9,000 to Defendants Hanibal and Urban to have them vacate the property;
however, Hanibal and Urban have failed to vacate the property. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant Constance Adler Galloway’s
Motion to Quash Service of Summons and Complaint is GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant Constance Adler Galloway
moves the court to quash service of summons and complaint on the grounds
Defendant was not properly served. 
 
“[C]ompliance with the statutory
procedures for service of process is essential to establish personal
jurisdiction. [Citation.]” (Dill v. Berquist Construction Co. (1994) 24
Cal.App.4th 1426, 1444.) “[T]he filing of a proof of service creates a
rebuttable presumption that the service was proper” but only if it “complies
with the statutory requirements regarding such proofs.” (Id. at
1441-1442.) When a defendant moves to quash service of the summons and
complaint, the plaintiff has “the burden of proving the facts that did give the
court jurisdiction, that is the facts requisite to an effective service.” (Coulston
v. Cooper (1966) 245 Cal.App.2d 866, 868.) “A court lacks jurisdiction over
a party if there has not been proper service of process.” (See Ruttenberg v.
Ruttenberg (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 801, 808.)
 
Defendant argues Plaintiffs will not be
able to meet their burden that service of process was effectuated against
Defendant Galloway pursuant to statute. This court granted Defendant’s motion
to vacate default when Plaintiffs attempted service at Defendant’s daughter’s
residence. Pursuant to the order and the demurrer on the complaint heard the
same day, Plaintiffs had 120 days to file an amended complaint and remedy
service of process on Defendant Galloway properly. However, Plaintiffs served the
FAC on Defendant via email while the undersigned just had open-heart surgery in
the hospital. 
 
Based on the foregoing, the court
GRANTS Defendant’s motion to quash service of summons. To properly serve a
defendant, there are four methods for serving a summons within the State of
California: (1) personal service – Code Civ. Proc. §415.10; (2) substitute
service – Code Civ. Proc. §415.20; (3) mail service – Code Civ. Proc. §415.30; and
(4) service by publication – Code Civ. Proc. §415.50. Plaintiffs did not serve
the summons and complaint via one of the established four ways. 
 
Accordingly, the motion to quash
service of summons and complaint is GRANTED. 