  Case Number:  22VECV01451    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  W YURIDIA LEDESMA, et al. v. AMERICAN HONDA
MOTOR CO., INC.
 
PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION ATTENDANCE OF
A PERSON MOST QUALIFIED AND CUSTODIAN OF RECORDS OF DEFENDANT AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR
CO., INC., AND REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS
 
Date of Hearing:        April
17, 2024                                                Trial Date:       June 10, 2024
Department:              W                                                                    Case
No.:        22VECV01451
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiffs Yuridia Ledesma and Ofelia Arambula
Responding Party:     Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a lemon law action. On September
30, 2022, Plaintiffs Yuridia Ledesma and Ofelia
Arambula filed a complaint against Defendant
American Honda Motor Co., Inc. for violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of
Express Warranty. Plaintiffs entered into a warranty contract with American Honda Motor Co., Inc. regarding a 2020 Honda Accord.
Plaintiff alleges Defects and nonconformities to warranty manifested themselves
including but not limited to exterior, electrical, engine, and steering. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Deposition
Attendance of a Person Most Qualified and Custodian of Records of Defendant
American Honda Motor Co., Inc. is GRANTED. 
 
discussion
 
Plaintiffs
Yuridia Ledesma and Ofelia Arambula move
this court, pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450(a),
for an order compelling Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc. to produce a
Person(s) Most Qualified and Custodian of Records to be deposed in accordance
with Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.230. Plaintiffs move this court for
an order awarding monetary sanctions against Defendant and its counsel of
record, Bowman and Brooke LLP for Defendant’s willful and intentional failure
to comply with the relevant code sections of the Discovery Act. Plaintiffs move
for an order for sanctions in the amount of $1,830.00. 
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
Section 2025.450, if after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action, without having served a valid objection, fails to appear for
examination, or proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document, the
party giving notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document. (CCP §
2025.450(a).) A motion to compel the deposition of a party to the action must
be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration, or, when the deponent failed
to attend the deposition, a declaration stating that the petitioner has
contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance. (CCP §
2025.450(b)(2).)
 
Plaintiffs argue even though Plaintiffs
have served a notice and sent out several written communications in an effort
to meet and confer, Defendant has and continues to fail to produce its PMQ.
Additionally, Plaintiffs attempted to meet and confer before filing this motion
and made numerous efforts to informally resolve this issue but no alternative
dates have still not been provided. 
 
In opposition, Defendant AHM contends
it is not refusing to provide a corporate witness in this matter. Rather, despite
Plaintiffs’ belief that AHM has unlimited capacity to produce witnesses on unilaterally
noticed deposition dates, defense counsel has indicated on multiple occasions
that AHM has limited witness resources available due to the number of filings
by Plaintiffs’ counsel for depositions of AHM’s person(s) most qualified in
Song-Beverly type cases. Moreover, as recently as March 28, 2024, AHM has
offered an available date for the deposition of AHM’s person most qualified on
May 17, 2024. (Hancox Decl. ¶12.) 
 
The court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ motion to
compel deposition of Defendants’ PMQ. Both sides agree that that Defendant’s
PMQ should be deposed.  
 
The parties are ordered to meet and
confer regarding availability. The deposition date is to be no earlier than sixty
days from the date of this motion and no more than 120 days. 
 
The request for sanctions is DENIED. The
court will revisit the issue of sanctions if the plaintiff is not able to take
the PMQ’s deposition within 120 days.