  Case Number:  22PSCV00977    Hearing Date:   November 4, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
STRIDE ADULT RESIDENTIAL FACILITY L-3’S NOTICE OF MOTION
AND MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION OF ISSUES is CONTINUED for Plaintiff
to complete the depositions. 
 
Background
 
This case arises from inpatient care at an adult residential
facility. Plaintiff PRISCILLA SALCEDO, an individual, by and through her
co-conservator SARAH GONZALEZ alleges the following against Defendants Stride
Adult Residential Facility L-3 (“Defendant Stride”), Los Angeles County
Regional Center, and Does 1 through 200: Plaintiff was admitted as an inpatient
to a 24-hour Adult Residential Facility for the developmentally disabled. While
under the care and treatment of DEFENDANTS, Plaintiff developed severe dental
issues, including the need for full extraction of her teeth, rehabilitation of
her gums, and will need permanent implants. 
 
On September 2, 2022, Plaintiff filed suit for (1) Dependent
Adult Abuse and (2) Negligence. 
 
On October 26, 2022, SAN GABRIEL POMONA VALLEYS
DEVELOPMENTAL SERVICES, INC. dba SAN GABRIEL/PONOMNA REGIONAL CENTER
(“SG/PRC”), a nonprofit corporation, erroneously sued herein as LOS ANGELES
COUNTY REGIONAL CENTER (“Regional Center”) filed its Answer. 
 
On November 8, 2022, Defendant Stride filed a demurrer with
a motion to strike, which the court on 1/9/23 sustained with leave to amend.
(The court did so because on the grounds of uncertainty in that the pleading
improperly lumped the defendants.) 
 
On February 22, 2023, Plaintiff filed a first amended
complaint (FAC).
 
On March 6, 2023, the Regional Center filed its Answer to
the FAC.
 
On March 27, 2023, Stride filed its answer to the FAC.
 
On March 1, 2024, Stride filed the instant motion.
 
On April 11, 2024, the parties filed a Stipulation to
Continue Trial and Other Related Dates.
 
 
On October 21 2024, Plaintiff filed a ‘DECLARATION OF STEVEN
C. PECK IN OPPOSITION TO MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION OF DEFENDANT, STRIDE
ADULT RESIDENTIAL FACILITY L-3 AND REQUEST FOR CONTINUANCE UNDER CALIFORNIA
CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE 437C(H).’
 
On October 29, 2024, Strike filed its Reply.
 
Discussion
 
Defendant Strikes seeks summary judgment as to the Dependent
Adult Abuse COA and summary adjudication as to the prayer for punitive damages.
More specifically, Stride seeks summary judgment on the COA because for sixteen
(16) years while a resident at the facility, neither Plaintiff nor her parents
complained about the care Plaintiff was receiving; Plaintiffs' claims rest on
an isolated event where Stride inadvertently delayed in scheduling a follow up
for a period of time following a single dental visit. (See Motion generally.)
 
Plaintiff has not filed an opposition. Instead, Plaintiff
seeks a continuance to complete the deposition testimony of Mr. Renee Hunt
(“Hunt”), the administrator of Stride, as well as the Person Most Knowledgeable
(PMK) deposition of the Regional Center scheduled for November 19, 2024.
 
California Code of Civil procedure § 437c(h) provides:
 
If it appears from the affidavits
submitted in opposition to a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication, or both, that facts essential to justify opposition may exist but
cannot, for reasons stated, be presented, the court shall deny the motion,
order a continuance to permit affidavits to be obtained or discovery to be had,
or make any other order as may be just. The application to continue the motion
to obtain necessary discovery may also be made by ex parte motion at any time
on or before the date the opposition response to the motion is due.
 
Plaintiff’s Counsel’s declaration
states that the discovery is necessary to reveal facts about the inadequate
staffing and “Defendants’ awareness of insufficient training and
qualifications.” (Peck Decl., pp. 3-4.) Further, Counsel Peck explains that the
originally scheduled depositions were “unilaterally taken off calendar” by
Stride. 
 
In Reply, Stride provides a
different narration: “Plaintiffs have taken a very lackadaisical approach to
completing any depositions in the case despite their awareness of Stride's
pending motion which has been on file with this court since February 29, 2024.”
(Reply pp. 5-6.) More specifically, Plaintiffs did get two hours of Stride's
PMK. As to Hunt’s deposition, Defendant Stride explains it was Plaintiff’s
Counsel who unilaterally noticed the continued deposition for 9/13, to which
Defendants' counsel emailed Plaintiffs' counsel and requested Ms. Hunt's
unilaterally noticed deposition be advanced to September 12 and that Hunt would
otherwise be unavailable until November. Plaintiff’s Counsel agreed to continue
Hunt’s deposition to November, instead of 9/12/24. 
 
Here, even if the depositions could have been completed
sooner and even if it is “hard to imagine” that Hunt or the Regional Center
will provide testimony to create a triable issue of material fact (Reply p.
7:5-7), the court seeks to rule on the merits of the motion. 
 
Therefore, the court continues the
hearing. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the motion
is continued for Plaintiff to complete the depositions. 
 
 