 Case Number:  24CHCV02580    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  F49  



Dept.
  F49




Date:
  10/25/24




Case
  Name: Teresa Arasheben, individually and as Trustee of Teresa Arasheben
  Trust v. Burns & Partners, Inc., Standard Fire Insurance Company, and Does
  1-20




Case
  No. 24CHCV02580



 
 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT F49
 

OCTOBER 25, 2024
 

DEMURRER WITH MOTION TO STRIKE

Los Angeles Superior
Court Case No. 24CHCV02580

 
Motion
filed: 8/1/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Burns & Partners, Inc.
RESPONDING PARTY: None. 
NOTICE: OK.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order sustaining Defendant’s Demurrer to the First and Third Causes of Action
in Plaintiffs’ Second Amended Complaint and striking portions thereof.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The Demurrer
is SUSTAINED IN PART. The Motion to Strike is DENIED AS MOOT. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action stems from a dispute over a property insurance
claim related to water loss and damages at Plaintiffs’ residential property and
contract work provided by the moving defendant. 
 
On August 28, 2023, Plaintiffs Teresa Arasheben
(“Arasheben”) and Teresa Arasheben as Trustee of Teresa Arasheben Trust
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) initiated this action. 
 
On April 3, 2024, the Court granted in part an Anti-SLAPP
motion, filed by the non-moving Defendant Standard Fire Insurance Company (“Standard”)
on November 2, 2023, and granted Plaintiffs 10 days’ leave to amend.
Subsequently, on April 9, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their First Amended Complaint.

 
On June 24, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their operative Second
Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against Defendant Burns & Partners, Inc. d/b/a
Burns Environmental Services (“Burns”), Standard (collectively, “Defendants”) and
Does 1 through 20, alleging the following causes of action: (1) Breach of
Contract (against all Defendants), (2) Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith
and Fair Dealing (against Standard), and (3) Gross Negligence (against Burn).
Subsequently, Standard filed its Answer to the SAC on July 23, 2024. 
 
On August 1, 2024, Burns filed the instant Demurrer with a
Motion to Strike to the SAC. Subsequently, on October 22, 2024, Burns filed a
Notice of Non-Receipt of Opposition.
 
No Opposition papers have been received by the Court. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds
for which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of
which the court may take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd.
(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of
a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions
of law.” (Postley v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) 
 
At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only allege
ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis for the
claim against them. (Semole v.
Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal.App.3d 714, 721.) “In the
construction of a pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its
allegations must be liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice
between the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “treat[s] the
demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law[.]” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007)
152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525 (Berkley).) In applying these standards, the
court liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated. (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50
Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
A.    Request
for Judicial Notice
 
Burns requests that the Court take judicial notice of
the following matters:
 
1.     
Request for Judicial Notice (“RJN”) No. 1: Plaintiffs’ original Complaint,
 
2.     
RJN No. 2: Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint,
 
3.     
RJN No. 3: Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint,
and
 
4.     
RJN No. 4: Declaration of R. Dolan in
Support of Extension to File Demurrer and Motion to Strike Due to Plaintiffs’
Counsel’s Refusal to Meet and Confer, filed July 24, 2024.
 
The
Court notes that Burns seeks judicial notice of four prior
filings within this case. The Court need not take notice of filings within its
own case record. Judicial notice of court filings recognizes only the fact of
their filing and that the statements therein were made; the court does not take
notice of their contents’ truth. (Wolf v. CDS Devo (2010) 185
Cal.App.4th 903, 914-915.) The facts of the documents’ filing and contentions
are already in the case file. To take unnecessary, redundant judicial notice
would only create confusion.
 
            Accordingly,
the Court DENIES the RJN. 
 
B.     Meet
and Confer
 
A party filing a demurrer “shall meet and confer in person
or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached
that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ.
Proc., section 430.41(a).) However, a failure to meet and confer does not
constitute grounds to sustain or overrule a demurrer. (See Code Civ. Proc.,
sections 430.41 (a)(4).)
 
Here, Burns made a good faith effort to fulfill the meet and
confer requirement. (2024/7/24 Dolan Decl. ¶¶ 4-6.)
 
Additionally, because Burns and Plaintiffs were unable to
meet and confer at least 5 days before the date the responsive pleading was
due, an automatic 30-day extension to file the instant Demurrer is triggered, as
provided by Code of Civil Procedure section 435.5, subdivision (a)(2).
 
C.    Demurrer
 
Burns demurs to the First and Third
Causes of Action in the SAC. 
 
1)     
 First Cause of Action – Breach of Contract
 
A
plaintiff must plead the following elements for a breach of contract cause of
action: (1) existence of contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) defendant’s’ breach (or anticipatory breach), and (4)
resulting damage to plaintiff. (Reichert v. General Ins. Co. (1968) 68 Cal.2d 822, 830.)
 
Burns contends that the First
Cause of Action is deficient on two grounds: (1) Plaintiffs fail to allege the
existence of a second contract, specifically the waiver letter, either by including
its terms verbatim in the SAC or by adequately stating its legal effect; and
(2) the inconsistency between Plaintiffs’ allegations and the attached exhibit undermines
the First Cause of Action insufficient under the doctrine of truthful pleading.
(Dem. at p. 16.)
 
As further explained below, the
Court finds these arguments unpersuasive for the following reasons. 
 
i)                  
Failure
to Allege the Existence of the Waiver Letter
 
The SAC references its Exhibit “1” in two instances. First,
Plaintiffs describe Exhibit “1” as a “written agreement.” (SAC
¶
41 [“PLAINTIFFS entered into a written agreement with
BURNS which is hereinafter called the BURNS AGREEMENT and attached hereto at
Exhibit ‘1’. The BURNS AGREEMENT sets forth the description for the project,
the work to be performed, BURNS’ general procedures, materials to be used and
the equipment to be installed.”] (Underlines added.))
 
In another instance, the SAC alleges that Exhibit “1”
contains “a letter waiving Clearance testing of the work.” (SAC ¶ 24, [“BURNS was
contacted, and a contract was signed by TERESA to start the Lead abatement.
Upon completion of the work, BURNS contacted TERESA requesting her to sign a
letter waiving Clearance testing of the work. TERESA refused, however due
to BURNS’ constant harassment TERESA instead of signing her name wrote “Duress”
in the signature block. A copy of said contract is attached hereto as Exhibit
‘1’.”] (Underlines added.))
 
However, the Court observes that the Exhibit “1” to the SAC contains
only a 21-page document titled the “Home Improvement Contract” (the “Home
Improvement Contract”) (SAC Ex. “1”) and does not include the alleged “letter
waiving Clearance testing of the work” (the “Waiver Letter”).
 
Nevertheless, this omission is not consequential. While
Burns points out that “Plaintiffs appear to allege, albeit vaguely, duress” concerning
the Waiver Letter, Plaintiffs are not required to plead the existence of the
Waiver Letter in this instance, as the cause of action is based on the Home
Improvement Contract.
 
This is supported by the allegations in the SAC, which
states, “BURNS breached the BURNS AGREEMENT when it, inter alia,: (1) did not
provide proper mobilization charges to set up and contain the work area or
adequate in capsulation with plastic sheeting to prevent dispersion of dust and
debris during the abatement process; (2) conducted Lead abatement in the
Property without adequate capsulation; (3) failed to commence procedures
reasonably necessary to effectively and properly abate Lead, and ( 4) failed to
show proof of air and surface clearance test indicating compliance with
thresholds for Lead, before taking the barriers down (5) Take adequate measures
to remove the Lead contaminated material to avoid cross contamination of
backyard” (SAC ¶
44.)
 
It is evident that the alleged breach pertains to the
obligations within the scope of the Home Improvement Contract, which is distinct
from the purpose of the Waiver Letter. (SAC ¶ 24.)
 
Additionally, the claim should be interpreted as seeking
enforcement of the Home Improvement Contract, not rescission. As such, the grounds
for rescission under the Code of Civil Procedure section 1689, subdivision
(b)(1), as cited by Burns, are irrelevant to this matter. 
 
In other words, recognizing that the Waiver Letter is
separate from the Home Improvement Contract, the omitted Waiver Letter is not
necessary to establish the existence of the contract. Therefore, it does not
affect the Court’s review of the Demurrer to the breach of the Home Improvement
Contract claim. 
 
Conversely, if Burns wishes to assert an affirmative defense
based on the Waiver Letter, the burden rests with Burns, not Plaintiffs, to
plead and prove its existence. 
 
Accordingly, the Court finds Burns’s argument misplaced regarding
the alleged breach of the Home Improvement Contract. 
 
ii)                
Inconsistency
between the Allegation and Exhibit
 
Burns argues that the Home
Improvement Contract, as reflected in Exhibit “1” with “Duress” in Plaintiffs’ signature
blocks, should be given preference over any allegation seeking to enforce the
contract.
 
However, the Court notes that the effect of
duress on a contract is not the issue here. As previously discussed, the First
Cause of Action is clearly seeking to enforce the Home Improvement Contract, not
to rescind it.
 
            Furthermore, even assuming that the Home Improvement Contract was
tainted by duress, it would be
voidable, not void. (See Barnette v. Wells Fargo Nevada Nat.
Bank of San Francisco
(1926) 270 U.S. 438, 444 [“Acts induced by duress
... are not void in law, but are voidable
only, at the election of him whose act was induced by it”].) 
 
This means the victim of duress,
allegedly Plaintiffs here, has the option to void the contract but may also
choose to affirm it, making the contract enforceable. Consequently, there is no
inconsistency between Plaintiffs seeking to enforce the Home Improvement
Contract while alleging that the contract was signed under duress.
            
            Therefore, the Court OVERRULES the
Demurrer as to the First Cause of Action for Breach of Contract. 
 
1)      Third
Cause of Action – Gross Negligence
 
            California law does not recognize an
independent cause of action for gross negligence. Rather, gross negligence is
pleaded by alleging the traditional elements of negligence: duty, breach,
causation, and damages. To set forth a claim for “gross negligence” the
plaintiff must also allege conduct by the defendant involving either “want of
even scant care” or “an extreme departure from the ordinary standard of
conduct.” Gross negligence connotes such a lack of care as may be presumed to
indicate a passive and indifferent attitude toward results. (Chavez v. 24
Hour Fitness USA, Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 632, 640 [citation omitted].)
 
i)                  
Sufficiency
of Allegation for Gross Negligence
      
Burns first argues that the Third Cause of Action fails to sufficiently
allege facts demonstrating “an extreme departure from the ordinary standard of
conduct” required to support a claim of gross negligence.
 
            Since gross negligence is pleaded
based on the traditional elements of negligence, the Court first examines the
elements of duty and breach of duty, as raised by Burns.
 
            Here,
the SAC alleges, “BURNS owed PLAINTIFFS a duty not to impose injuries and/or
damages onto PLAINTIFFS and/or the Property and to exercise reasonable care to
protect PLAINTIFFS from harm while conducting its asbestos abatement services
at the Property.” (SAC ¶
61.) 
 
Moreover, the SAC states, “...BURNS grossly breached its
duty to exercise reasonable skill and care in performing its Lead abatement
services at the Property, in that it: (1) did not provide proper in-capsulation
to set up and contain the work area with plastic sheeting to prevent dispersion
of dust and debris during the abatement process; (2) conducted Lead abatement
in the Property without adequate capsulation; and, (3) failed to commence
procedures reasonably necessary to effectively and properly abate the lead (4)
failed to obtain proper clearance before taking the barrier down. BURNS,
knowing that their breach of duty to PLAINTIFFS would result in severe injury
to PLAINTIFFS did not take any measure to prevent such injury and exhibited a
lack of care and/or extreme departure from what a reasonably careful person
would do in the same situation as them respectively, to prevent harm to
others.” (SAC ¶
62.)
 
The Court finds that the SAC has alleged the traditional
elements of negligence: especially, duty and breach as outlined in the above
paragraphs. However, even when liberally construing these allegations, as
required at this stage of the proceeding, the Court does not find that Burns’s conduct
rises to the level required to establish gross negligence. Specifically,
Burns’s actions, as alleged, do not constitute conduct that “substantially or
unreasonably increased the inherent risk of an activity,” “actively concealed a
known risk,” or “evinces an extreme departure from [contractor’s] safety
direction or an industry standard.” (See Anderson v. Fitness Internat., LLC
(2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 867, 881.) The conduct demonstrating the failure to guard
against, or warn of, a dangerous condition typically does not meet the
threshold of gross negligence.
 
Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS the Demurrer as to the Third
Cause of Action on this basis.
 
ii)                
Absence of a Legal Duty Independent of
the Contract
 
Alternatively, the Court also finds persuasive Burns’s
second argument that this claim is subject to Demurrer because it attempts to
convert the Breach of Contract claim into a tort cause of action. (Dem. at pp.
19-20.)
 
It is well-established that “conduct amounting to a breach of
contract becomes tortious only when it also violates a duty independent of the contract arising
from principles of tort law.” (Applied Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 515.) “An
omission to perform a contract obligation is never a tort, unless that omission
is also an omission of a legal duty.” (Ibid.,
quoting Jones v. Kelly (1929) 208 Cal. 251,
255.)
 
As the California Supreme Court explained in Erlich v. Menezes
(1999) 21 Cal.4th 543 (Erlich), “[g]enerally, outside the insurance
context, “a tortious breach of contract ... may be found when (1) the breach is
accompanied by a traditional common law tort, such as fraud or conversion; (2)
the means used to breach the contract are tortious, involving deceit or undue
coercion or; (3) one party intentionally breaches the contract intending or
knowing that such a breach will cause severe, unmitigable harm in the form of
mental anguish, personal hardship, or substantial consequential damages.
[Citations]” (Id. at p.  553.)
 
            Here, without considering mere
deductions or conclusion of fact or law, the Court finds that the Third Cause
of Action fails to allege any fraudulent conduct or intentional breach by Burns.
Nor have Plaintiffs included any factual allegation suggesting that Burns’s
breach of contract caused physical harm. 
 
Consequently, the Court determines that Plaintiffs have failed to
establish a duty that give rise to tort liability that is completely
independent of the contract obligations. (See J.L. v. Children’s
Institute, Inc. (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 388, 396 [holding that a negligence
claim must be based on a duty owed by defendant to plaintiff. Absent such a
duty, there is no liability, no matter how easily the injury might have been
prevented.])
 
            Therefore, the Court SUSTAINS the
Demurrer as to the Third Cause of Action on this alternative ground.
 
2)      Leave to Amend
 
Generally, leave to amend is
available when “the
defect raised by a motion to strike or by demurrer is reasonably capable of
cure . . . to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the defect in question.” (CLD
Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.)
A demurrer may be
sustained without leave to amend where, “‘the facts are not in dispute, and the
nature of the plaintiff's claim is clear, but, under the substantive law, no
liability exists.’ [Citation.]” (Seidler v. Municipal Court (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 1229, 1233.) The burden of proving the
existence of a reasonable possibility to cure the defect by amendment is
squarely on the plaintiff. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) 
 
As previously discussed, the Third Cause of Action for Gross
Negligence is subject to Demurrer on two independent grounds: (1) failure to
state facts sufficient to constitute a gross negligence claim, and (2) improper
splitting the breach of contract claim into a tort claim.
 
The second independent ground leads the Court to conclude
that this defect may not be cured with a reasonable possibility by amendment,
as no liability is viable for any form of negligence.
 
Additionally, Plaintiffs have failed to submit an
Opposition, waiving the issues at bar. Furthermore, Plaintiffs have had two
opportunities in amending the pleading but fail to meet the pleading standards.
 
Therefore, the Court SUSTAINS the Demurrer as to the Third
Cause of Action without leave to amend.
 
iii)              
Motion to Strike
 
Burns moves for the Court to strike
portions of the SAC pertaining to the Third Cause of Action:
 
1.      Paragraph
64: “PLAINTIFFS are informed and believe, and thereon allege that the
actions of BURNS and of its agents, were a conscious and voluntary disregard of
the need to use reasonable care, BURNS' actions, or lack thereof, were willful,
wanton and reckless conduct which was likely to cause foreseeable grave injury
or harm to persons, property, or both. When compared to ordinary Negligence,
BURNS conducts were extreme, and that by reason of BURNS' Gross Negligence,
PLAINTIFFS are entitled to punitive and exemplary damages in a sum according to
proof.”
 
2.      Item
14 under Prayer: “Punitive Damages”
 
Since the Court
has sustained the Demurrer as to the Third Cause of Action, all related portions
are stricken in their entirety, making the motion to strike those portions moot.
 
Therefore, the
Court DENIES AS MOOT the Motion to Strike. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Defendant Burns & Partners, Inc.’s Demurrer to the First
Cause of Action for Breach of Contract in the Second Amended Complaint is
OVERRULED. 
 
Defendant Burns & Partners, Inc.’s Demurrer to the
Third Cause of Action for Gross Negligence in the Second Amended Complaint is
SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Defendant Burns & Partners, Inc.’s Motion to Strike is
DENIED AS MOOT.
 
Defendant Burns & Partners, Inc. is ordered to serve
and file its Answer to the Second Amended Complaint within 30 days.
 
Moving
party to give notice.