

 
On February 7, 2022, Plaintiffs George
Small III (Decedent) (by and through his Successor in Interest, Barbara Small),
Barbara Small, and Kent Small, M.D. (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed the
initial complaint in this action. 
 
            On
July 11, 2023, Defendant Nicholas
Jauregui, M.D., Inc. (Defendant or
Supportive Care) filed
a demurrer to the first cause of action and a motion to strike. Plaintiffs opposed the demurrer and motion to strike. The
Court sustained the demurrer with leave to amend and granted the motion to
strike.
 
            On
September 13, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC); the FAC pleaded
causes of action for (1.)
elder abuse, (2.) negligence, and (3.) wrongful death. Defendant
Supportive Care filed
a demurrer to the first cause of action to the FAC and a motion to strike. The
Court sustained the demurrer with leave to amend.
 
            On
January 10, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a Second Amended Complaint (SAC); the SAC pleads
causes of action for (1.)
elder abuse, (2.) negligence, and (3.) wrongful death.
 
            On February 9, 2024, Defendant Supportive
Care filed a demurrer to the first cause
of action of the SAC and a motion to strike. Plaintiffs opposed the demurrer
and motion to strike. 
 
            The
demurer to the first cause of action is sustained. The motion to strike is
granted.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.
(Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering
demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context. The defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) A demurrer tests the
pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it
lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are
judicially noticed. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.30, 430.70.) At the pleading
stage, a plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the
defendant of the factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole v.
Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) A “demurrer does not, however,
admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the
pleading, or the construction of instruments pleaded, or facts impossible in
law.” (S. Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732
[internal citations omitted].)
 
“The court may, upon a motion made
pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.”¿(Code Civ. Proc. § 436.) “Immaterial” or “irrelevant” matters
include allegations not essential to the claim, allegations neither pertinent
to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or a demand for judgment
requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint. (Code Civ.
Proc. § 431.10, subds. (b)(1)-(3).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Defendant again
demurs to the first cause of action for elder abuse. The basis for the demurrer
is Plaintiffs’ purported failure to allege facts sufficient to state an elder
abuse claim. 
 
            The elements of a cause of action
under the Elder Abuse and Dependent Adults Act (Elder Abuse Act or Act), are
statutory. (Intrieri v. Superior Court (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 72, 82.) “The Elder Abuse Act makes certain
enhanced remedies available to a plaintiff who proves abuse of an elder, i.e.,
a ‘person residing in this state, 65 years of age or older.’ (Welf. & Inst.
Code § 15610.27.) In particular, a plaintiff who proves ‘by clear and
convincing evidence’ both that a defendant is liable for physical abuse,
neglect or financial abuse (as these terms are defined in the Act) and that the
defendant is guilty of ‘recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice’ in the
commission of such abuse may recover attorney fees and costs. (Welf. &
Inst. Code, § 15657, subd. (a).) 


            The SAC alleges that, on the evening
of February 4, 2020 and throughout the following day, Defendants administered
multiple doses of Haloperdol and Morphine in order to control and chemically
restrain Decedent. (SAC ¶¶ 21-38.) As result of this medication, Decedent died
the following morning, on February 6. (SAC ¶ 39.) 
 
            The demurrer argues the allegations
do not support a claim for elder abuse as defined by statute. That is, the
allegations show neither “neglect” nor “abuse.”
 
            The five-page opposition, merely argues
that the SAC sufficiently alleges facts demonstrating neglect. (Opp. 4:7-9.)
 
            The Elder Abuse Act defines abuse as “[p]hysical
abuse, neglect, financial abuse, abandonment, isolation,
abduction, or other treatment with resulting physical harm or pain or mental
suffering” (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.07, subd. (a)(1), italics added);
or “[t]he deprivation by a care custodian of goods or services that are
necessary to avoid physical harm or mental suffering.” (Id., § 15610.07, subd. (b)(2).) 
 
            The allegations here are inadequate to demonstrate “neglect” under
the statute. 
 
The Act defines neglect as “[t]he
negligent failure of any person having the care or custody of an elder or a
dependent adult to exercise that degree of care that a reasonable person in a
like position would exercise.” (Welf. & Inst. Code § 15610.57, subd.
(a)(1).) “Neglect includes, but is not limited to, all of the following: [¶]
(1) Failure to assist in personal hygiene, or in the provision of food,
clothing, or shelter. [¶] (2) Failure to provide medical care for physical and
mental health needs.... [¶] (3) Failure to protect from health and safety
hazards. [¶] (4) Failure to prevent malnutrition or dehydration.” (Welf. &
Inst. Code § 15610.57, subd. (b).) “[N]eglect as a form of abuse under the
Elder Abuse Act refers ‘to the failure of those responsible for attending to
the basic needs and comforts of elderly or dependent adults, regardless of
their professional standing, to carry out their custodial obligations.” (Delaney v. Baker (1999) 20 Cal.4th 23, 34.) 
 
            The SAC alleges that Defendant administered
medication in amounts or quantities to restrain Decedent, which resulted in
Decedent’s death. (SAC ¶¶ 21-30.) These allegations do not show a failure to
provide medical care or any other type of custodial care. Thus, Plaintiffs have
not alleged facts showing “neglect.” 
 
            In a nearly identical opposition to
the opposition to the demurrer to the FAC, the Opposition’s entire analysis of
its pleadings on this element is as follows: “the operative complaint contains
specific factual allegations constituting Defendant’s neglect of decedent: the
defendant failed to provide decedent medical care, failed to protect from
health and safety hazards, (Complaint at ¶¶ 18-50).” (Opp. 4:7-9.) Plaintiffs fail
to identify any new allegation that addresses the issues repeatedly raised by
this Court on its ruling on the demurrers. 
 
            As
stated in the statute, neglect is the failure to provide for the care and custody
of an elder. The plaintiff must allege, with particularity,
that the neglect caused the elder adult to suffer physical harm, pain, or
mental suffering. (Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC (2011)
198 Cal.App.4th 396, 407.)
 
Here, Plaintiffs point only to the
administration of medication as the basis for neglect – specifically that too
much medication was provided. (SAC ¶¶ 36, 38.) Plaintiffs’ argument and
allegations are entirely conclusory with regard to neglect. Moreover, the injury
here was the result of the provision of medical care, not a failure
to provide custodial care. 
 
Thus, the SAC fails to allege a
cause of action for elder abuse based on neglect. The demurrer to this cause of
action is sustained. 
 
Motion to Strike
 
            Defendant also moves
to strike the request for punitive damages, and attorney fees. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that
they are entitled to attorney fees based on the elder abuse cause of action;
further, Plaintiffs contend they have pled sufficient facts to support
prayer for punitive damages as the provisions of MICRA and Code of Civil
Procedure section 425.13 do not apply to the elder abuse claim. (Opp., 3:1-15.)
 
As a result of the Court’s ruling on
the demurrer to the elder abuse cause of action, the motion to strike is well
taken.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The demurrer to
the first cause of action is sustained. The motion to strike is granted. Because
Plaintiff failed to allege new material allegations after the Court’s ruling on
the demurrer to the Complaint, FAC, and now the SAC, Plaintiffs shall not have
leave to amend. The first cause of action for purported elder abuse is
dismissed. 