 Case Number:  23CHCV02410    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  F49 


Dept.
  F49




Date:
  6/18/24




Case
  Name: Timothy McGinley and Chloe McGinley v. Ford Motor Company;
  AutoNation Ford Valencia; and Does 1 through 10




Case No.
  23CHCV02410



 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT F49
 

JUNE 18, 2024
 

DEMURRER

Los Angeles Superior
Court Case No. 23CHCV02410

 
Motion
filed: 4/3/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Ford Motor Company (“Ford
Motor” or the “Demurring Defendant”) 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs Timothy McGinley and
Chloe McGinley (“McGinleys” or “Plaintiffs”)
NOTICE: OK
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order granting Ford Motor’s demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action for
Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment in Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”)
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The demurrer
is SUSTAINED without LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiffs filed this
lawsuit under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, alleging defects in their
2021 Ford F-150 (the “Subject Vehicle”), manufactured by Defendant Ford Motor.
Plaintiffs purchased the Subject Vehicle on November 19, 2021. (FAC, ¶¶ 8-9.)
 
This case commenced on August 10, 2023. Following a demurrer
by Ford Motor on September 13, 2023, which was sustained by Department F47
Court on January 30, 2024, Plaintiffs were granted leave to amend.  
 
On February 29, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the operative First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants Ford Motor, AutoNation Ford
Valencia (“AutoNation Ford”),  and Does 1
through 10, alleging the following causes of action: (1) violation of
subdivision (d) of Civil Code section 1793.2, (2) violation of subdivision (b)
of Civil Code section 1793.2, (3) violation of subdivision (a)(3) of Civil Code
section 1793.2, (4) breach of the implied warranty of merchantability (Civ.
Code, §§ 1791.1, 1794, 1795.5), (5) fraudulent inducement – concealment, and
(6) negligent repair.
 
On April 3, 2024, Ford Motor filed the instant Demurrer to
the fifth cause of action in the FAC (the “Demurrer”). Subsequently, on June 5,
2024, Plaintiffs filed their Opposition, and Ford Motor replied on June 11,
2024. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer can be
used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under
attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal 3d 311,
318.) No other extrinsic evidence can be considered.
 
A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th
740, 747 (Hahn).)  When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context.  (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dep’t of Water & Power (2006) 144
Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.)  In a demurrer
proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via
proper judicial notice.  (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
116 Cal. App. 4th 968, 994.)  
 
“A demurrer tests
the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.  Therefore, it lies only where the defects
appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.”  (SKF Farms v. Superior Ct. (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.) 
 
A.   
Meet and
Confer Requirement
 
A party filing a demurrer “shall meet and confer in
person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached
that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ.
Proc., section 430.41(a).) A failure to meet and confer does not constitute
grounds to sustain or overrule a demurrer. (See Code Civ. Proc., sections
430.41 (a)(4).)
 
            Here, Ford Motor’s counsel attests
that he met and conferred with Plaintiffs’ counsel telephonically on March 12,
2024, discussing the issues raised in the Demurrer. However, the parties were
unable to reach an agreement. (Liu Decl. ¶ 3.)
 
            Based on the declaration provided,
the Court concludes that the meet and confer requirement has been satisfied.
 
B.    
Fifth Cause
of Action – Fraudulent Inducement - Concealment
 
“[T]he elements of an action for
fraud and deceit based on concealment are: (1) the defendant must have
concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under
a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have
intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the
plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and
(5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff
must have sustained damage.”  (Boschma v. Home Loan Ctr., Inc. (2011)
198 Cal. App. 4th 230, 248, [internal citations omitted].)  
 
Generally speaking, there are four circumstances in which
nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when the
defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the
defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff;
(3) when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff;
and (4) when the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses
some material facts. (LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 336
(LiMandri).)
 
1)                 
Ford
Motor’s Concealment and Suppression of Material Fact
 
Ford Motor claims that the FAC
fails to plead facts sufficient to demonstrate the material fact Ford Motor
allegedly concealed. (Dem. at p. 11.) It maintains that Plaintiffs’ pleadings
are insufficient where they relied on a generic “Transmission Defect,” citing In
re Ford Motor Co. DPS6 Powershift Transmission Prod. Liab. Lit., (N.D. Cal.
May 22, 2019) WL 3000646, at p. 7.
 
In response, Plaintiffs state
that paragraph 29 of the FAC has clearly identified the material facts Ford
Motor knew, but withheld from Plaintiffs. (Opp’n. at p. 5.)
 
Here,
the FAC alleges, “Prior to Plaintiffs purchasing the Vehicle, Defendant FMC
knew that vehicles equipped with the same 10-speed transmission as the Vehicle
suffered from one or more defects that can cause the vehicles and their
10-speed transmissions to experience hesitation and/or delayed acceleration;
harsh and/or hard shifting; jerking, shuddering, and/or juddering
("Transmission Defect").” (FAC ¶ 29.) 

 
Plaintiffs contend that similar
allegations have previously been deemed sufficient at the pleading stage by
California courts. (Opp’n. at p. 5, citing Dhital v. Nissan (2022) 84
Cal.App.5th 828, 844 (Dhital), [review granted, Feb. 1, 2023, S277568] [found
that the allegation is sufficient at the pleading stage that “the CVT
transmissions were defective in that they caused such problems as hesitation,
shaking, jerking, and failure to function.”] Considering that our Supreme Court
has granted review of Dhital, the Court acknowledges Dhital for
its persuasive value only. The Court finds Plaintiffs argument to be
well-reasoned and persuasive, and is not convinced otherwise by Ford Motor’s position.
 
Given these arguments, the Court
determines that Plaintiffs’ descriptions of “hesitation and/or delayed
acceleration; harsh and/or hard shifting; jerking, shuddering, and/or
juddering” are sufficient to meet the factual allegation standard at the
pleading stage.
 
2)                 
Ford
Motor’s Duty to Disclose
 
A duty to disclose may exist “(1) when the defendant is in a
fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive
knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant
actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the
defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses some material
facts.” (LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 336 (LiMandri).)
 
(a)  
Fiduciary
Relationship
 
Firstly, Ford Motor argues that it
does not have a fiduciary or transactional relationship with Plaintiffs, thereby
not triggering a duty to disclose under the first LiMandri condition.
(Dem. at pp. 12-16.)
 
            In
response, Plaintiffs contend that under California law, a vendor is obligated
to disclose material facts not only to immediate purchasers, but also to
subsequent purchasers when the vendor anticipates that the item will be resold,
arguing strict privity is not required. To support their argument, Plaintiffs
cite OCM Principal Opportunities Fund, L.P. v. CIBC World Markets Corp.,
(2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 835 (OCM). (Opp’n. at p. 6.)
 
The Court finds that Plaintiffs’
argument is not fully supported by the OCM ruling. The OCM court
held, “Where, as here, there is no fiduciary relationship, the duty to disclose
generally presupposes a relationship grounded in ‘some sort of transaction
between the parties.’ [Citations] [Italics in original.]” (OCM, supra,
157 Cal.App.4th at p. 859.) 
 
Similarly, an emphasis on the
existence of some sort of transaction is also discussed in Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276 (Bigler-Engler), which stated that a duty to disclose that is based upon a
“transaction must necessarily arise from direct dealings between the plaintiff
and the defendant; it cannot arise between the defendant and the public at
large.” (Id. at p. 312.) Even where the defendant has volunteered
information, it does not have a further obligation to correct half-truths where
no sufficient relationship or transaction exists.  (Ibid.)  Simply speaking does not give rise to a duty
to disclose.  (Ibid.) In Bigler-Engler,
the court noted that the manufacturer in that case was not involved “in any
way” with the patient, and that there was no evidence that the manufacturer
“directly advertised its products to consumers such as” the patient.  (Id.
at p. 314.)
 
Furthermore, the Bigler-Engler
court rejected the plaintiff’s reliance on the general principle that a
manufacturer has a duty to warn consumers of a product’s hazards and faults, reasoning
that this duty is applied in actions of strict product liability, and not
directly applicable to fraud. (Id. at p. 312.)  
 
            Here,
it is uncontested that there is not a fiduciary relationship between Plaintiffs
and Ford Motor. Nor has the FAC sufficiently pleaded any transactional
relationship between the parties. Thus, the Court concludes that the first LiMandri
circumstance is inapplicable in this case.
 
(b)  Exclusive Knowledge, Active
Concealment, or Partial Representation
 
Secondly,
Plaintiffs argue that Ford Motor had exclusive knowledge of the true extent of
the Transmission Defect, triggering its duty to disclose those facts under the
second LiMandri circumstance to prevent the transaction from becoming
deceitful or fraudulent. (Opp’n. at p. 6)
 
Here,
the FAC alleges that “Defendant FMC was under a duty to Plaintiffs to disclose
the defective nature of the Subject Vehicle and its transmission, its safety
consequences and/or the associated repair costs because: 
 
a. Defendant FMC
acquired its knowledge of the Transmission Defect and its potential
consequences prior to Plaintiffs acquiring the Vehicle, through sources not
available to consumers such as Plaintiffs, including but not limited to
pre-production testing data, early consumer complaints about the Transmission
Defect made directly to Defendant FMC and its network of dealers, aggregate
warranty data compiled from Defendant FMC's network of dealers, testing
conducted by Defendant FMC in response to these complaints, as well as warranty
repair and part replacements data received by Defendant FMC from Defendant
FMC's network of dealers, amongst other sources of internal information; 
 
b. Defendant FMC was
in a superior position from various internal sources to know (or should have
known) the true state of facts about the material defects contained in vehicle
equipped with the defective transmission; and; 
 
c. As early as
January 2018, Consumers who purchased vehicles equipped with Ford's 10-speed
transmission have been complaining about the transmission defect; and 
 
d. Plaintiffs could
not reasonably have been expected to learn or discover of the Vehicle's
Transmission Defect and its potential consequences until well after Plaintiffs
purchased the Vehicle.” 
 
(FAC ¶ 72.)
 
Additionally,
the FAC pleads, “Defendant acquired this knowledge prior to Plaintiffs
purchasing the Vehicle through various sources of information, including but
not limited to pre-production testing, pre-production design failure mode and
analysis data, production failure mode and analysis data, early consumer
complaints made exclusively to Ford's network of dealers and directly to Ford,
aggregate warranty data compiled from Ford's network of dealers, testing
conducted by Ford in response to consumer complaints, and repair order and
parts data received by Ford from Ford's network of dealers.” (See FAC ¶¶ 30, 69.)
 
According
to established legal principles, a complaint is only required to allege facts
sufficient to state a cause of action to survive a demurrer; it need not
contain every evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff's proof. (See Golceff v. Sugarman (1950) 36 Cal.2d 152, 154.)
However, while a demurrer admits all facts properly pleaded, it does not admit
contentions, deductions or conclusions of law or fact. (George v. Automobile
Club of Southern California, supra, 201 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1120,
135.)
 
            Here,
Ford Motor argues that the FAC’s allegations provide only summary and
conclusory allegations regarding Ford Motor’s knowledge of the transmission
defects, and it fails to plead “exclusive knowledge and active concealment” by
Ford Motor. (Reply at p. 4.) The Court finds this argument persuasive.
 
            The
Court considered the allegations in paragraphs 30, 69, and 72 of the FAC, which
Plaintiffs rely upon to establish Ford Motor’s duty to disclose, to be
conclusory. These allegations touch on “pre-production and post-production” and
“consumer complaints” but lack specificity about what the testing and
complaints actually revealed. This lack of details fails to substantiate claims
that Ford Motor had exclusive and specific knowledge that it was obligated to
disclose.  
 
            Given
these deficiencies, the FAC does not adequately plead that Ford Motor has a
duty to disclose to Plaintiffs.
 
(c)  
Ford
Motor’s Intentional Concealment or Suppression of the Defect with the Intent to
Defraud Plaintiffs
 
In
analyzing this LiMandri circumstance, several California district court
decisions have outlined the need for specific factual allegations, indicating
that the defendant “sought to suppress information in the public domain or
obscure consumers' ability’ to discover information regarding the alleged [defects].”
(See, e.g, Taragan v. Nissan North America, Inc., 2013 WL 3157918, at *
7 (N.D. Cal. June 20, 2013); Gray v. Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., 2012 WL
313170, at *10 (C.D. Cal. January 23, 2012).)
 
Here,
the FAC asserts that “[i]n failing to disclose the defects in the Vehicle’s
transmission. Defendant FMC has knowingly and intentionally concealed material
facts and breached its duty not to do so.” (FAC ¶ 73.) However, the Court deems
this statement to be a legal conclusion rather than a sufficient factual
allegation demonstrating the intentional concealment or suppression of
information. 
 
The
assertions do not include specific facts such as how Ford Motor actively sought
to keep the information from reaching consumers, or affirmatively misled or deceived
Plaintiffs about the transmission defects. Without the details, the FAC fails
to meet the required standard of specificity to state a cause of action for
fraud.
 
Therefore, the Court SUSTAINS the Demurrer for failing to
sufficiently plead the elements of the fifth cause of action.
 
3)                 
Economic
Loss Rule
 
Both
parties recognize that the economic loss rule is inapplicable to intentional
misrepresentation claims as narrowly applied. (See Robinson Helicopter Co.,
Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979.) However, there is a divergence
in authority regarding the rule’s applicability to causes of action for fraudulent
concealment. (See Dhital, supra, (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828
[review granted, Feb. 1, 2023, S277568] [holding that the economic loss rule
does not bar claims for fraudulent inducement by concealment.])
 
Given the pending Supreme Court review of Dhital, expected
to clarify this issue, it is unnecessary for the Court to address Plaintiffs’
claim that the fifth cause of action - fraudulent concealment - is not barred by
the economic loss rule. Moreover, this particular issue is not dispositive in
this review, as the Court has already sustained the Demurrer to the fifth cause
of action based on other grounds.
 
C.   
Leave to
Amend
 
A
“plaintiff has the burden of proving that an amendment would cure the defect”
in their complaint. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles (2003) 31 Cal.4th
1074, 1081 [internal citations omitted].)
 
Here,
Plaintiffs have sought leave to amend, yet they have not indicated that any
additional facts would cure the deficiency in their fifth cause of action. Moreover,
Plaintiffs were previously granted leave to amend this same issue on January
30, 2024, by Department F47 Court. Despite this opportunity, their FAC continues
to inadequately state all necessary elements of the fraudulent concealment
claim.
 
Based
on the reasons above, the Court SUSTAINS without LEAVE TO AMEND the Demurrer.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Defendant’s
Demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action in Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint is
SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
Moving
party to give notice.  