 Case Number:  24SMCV02697    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Tax Resolution Plus, Inc. v. Dijar
Corporation, Case no. 24SMCV02697
Hearing date November 19, 2024
Defendant’s
Motion for Sanctions 
Plaintiff
Tax Resolution Plus, Inc. sues defendant Dijar Corporation for breach of
contract arising from the alleged failure to pay $84,909.92 for tax consulting services.
Defendant moves for sanctions of $14,108.22, arguing the complaint was filed for
an improper purpose, and plaintiff is attempting to enforce an illegal
contract. Defendant requests judicial notice and objects to the declaration of
plaintiff’s witness Shawn Zali.
Defendant’s Request for Judicial
Notice
Defendant
requests judicial notice of: (1) IRS Notice 2008-43 entitled “Contingent Fees
Under Circular 230”; (2) IRS Feb. 13, 2024 News release entitled “7 Warning
Signs Employee Retention
Credit Claims May be Incorrect”; (3) IRS July 26, 2024 News release entitled
“More Warning Signs of Incorrect Claims For the Employee Retention Credit”; and
(4) May 14, 1990 Articles of Incorporation for Dijar Corporation. GRANTED.
Defendant’s Evidentiary Objections
Defendant’s
11 evidentiary objections to the declaration of Shawn Zali are OVERRULED.
Defendant’s Motion for Sanctions
Under
CCP §128.7 sanctions may only be imposed where claims are presented for an
improper purpose, lack factual support, have no basis in law or to deter
frivolous filings, not to punish parties for asserting legitimate claims.
California law mandates a court must view the evidence in a light most
favorable to the party against whom sanctions are sought.
Defendant
argues the parties’ contract is void as a matter of public policy, as it
contemplates fraud, since defendant retained plaintiff to file for an employee
retention credit for which it allegedly did not qualify. Defendant argues
plaintiff attempted to engage in fraud by pursuing this credit on behalf of an
unqualified entity, making the contract is unenforceable. This is unavailing.
The contract between the parties was allegedly for legal tax consulting
services.
Defendant
argues the underlying contract is void as a matter of public policy. Defendant
asserts the IRS bars contingency fee agreements for tax services, and the
contract contained a contingency fee agreement. Plaintiff notes the IRS only
bars contingency fee agreements for tax return filing services, not consulting
services. Defendant’s argument is unavailing; the contract was not illegal nor
void as a matter of public policy.
Defendant
argues plaintiff’s allegations lack evidentiary basis, and plaintiff is
unlikely to identify sufficient evidence through discovery. Defendant asserts
plaintiff’s claim for $84,909.92 is arbitrary, as defendant did not deposit the
funds received as part of the credit, so no evidence exists supporting the
claim. Plaintiff’s claim is for unpaid fees for tax consulting services
provided to defendant, which bears no relationship to funds allegedly received
by defendant from the IRS. 
Plaintiff
argues the contract between the parties and Zali’s declaration establish the
necessary evidentiary foundation for a breach of contract claim. Decl. Zali
para. 13. Plaintiff alleged existence of a contract, plaintiff’s performance
and defendant’s breach, such that the FAC has evidentiary basis. The argument
that plaintiff cannot produce additional evidence through discovery is
speculative.
Defendant
argues the FAC was brought for an improper purpose to coerce defendant into
paying, and the complaint is based on an illegal contract and unsupported by
evidence. This is duplicative of prior arguments. Plaintiff’s FAC is allegedly based
on a legal and enforceable contract and is supported by sufficient allegations
of facts to establish proper purpose. There is no basis for the court to impose
sanctions. DENIED.