  Case Number:  23SMCV01442    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Ammari v. Martinez, Case no. 23SMCV01442
Hearing date November 19, 2024
Defendants’
Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint
Plaintiff
Ammari sues defendants Jorge L. Martinez, Jesus Enrique and Edin Alex Enamarado
for slander and libel arising from a 3/3/23 exchange between the parties in
which defendants allegedly accused plaintiff of child abuse and human
trafficking and posted a video of the exchange on the internet. Plaintiff’s
complaint was filed 4/3/23 and an FAC on 12/4/23. Defendants seek leave to file
a cross-complaint. Plaintiff opposes and requests sanctions. Defendant requests
sanctions.
Motions
for leave to amend pleadings are liberally granted at all stages of the
proceedings, up to and including the eve of trial. CCP §§473(a)(1), 576. A
court may deny leave to amend if the potential defendant / cross-defendant will
suffer prejudice as a result of the amendment. Prejudice may be found where the
amendment would result in a delay of trial, along with loss of critical
evidence, added costs of preparation, increased burden of discovery, etc. Magpali
v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.
Defendants
argue plaintiff’s opposition was untimely, so should not be considered. As the
opposition was untimely by two court days and defendants were able to file a
responsive reply, the court considers plaintiff’s argument.
Defendants
assert the cross-complaint arises from the same set of facts and circumstances
as the FAC, namely the 3/3/23 exchange between the parties, and is compulsory. Plaintiff
argues the motion is untimely, prejudicial and in bad faith. 
Plaintiff
argues defendants had ample time to bring this motion since filing the answer.
Defense counsel Contreras declares the cross-complaint was not previously filed
because defendants hoped to settle the matter. Decl. Contreras para. 3.
Plaintiff
argues the motion is prejudicial, as it will delay trial, set for 3/10/25 and
necessitate additional discovery, but plaintiff does not specify what
additional discovery would be required. Defendants assert no discovery has yet
occurred, and they will be prejudiced if unable to litigate their claims
arising from the 3/3/23 exchange. Decl. Contreras para. 4. 
Plaintiff
argues the motion is brought in bad faith, noting the lack of a declaration
from defendants as well as the results of previous court decisions regarding
defendants. A party declaration is required. Plaintiff’s reliance on previous
court decisions is unavailing; defendants are entitled to litigate their claims
against plaintiff regardless of the rulings in limited TRO hearings. California
has a strong public policy favoring the filing of cross-complaints absent
prejudice. Defendants’ claims arise from the same 3/3/23 exchange and are
unlikely to greatly expand the scope of discovery or length of trial.
The
motion is GRANTED. Defendants to file the cross-complaint within 5 court days. There
is no basis to sanction either party. The court reminds both sides that
sanctions are a harsh remedy only to be imposed sparingly. Neither side comes
close to establishing that sanctions are appropriate here.