 Case Number:  22STCV21130    Hearing Date:   January 26, 2024    Dept:  71  
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



MARCELUS
  LAIDLER, et al.,  
  
         vs.
 
COUNTY
  OF LOS ANGELES, et al.


 Case No.: 
  22STCV21130
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 26, 2024



 
Defendants County
of Los Angeles’, Los Angeles Department of Health Services’, Los Angeles County
+ University of Southern California Medical Center aka LAC+USC Medical
Center’s, and University of Southern California’s demurrer to Plaintiff
Marcelus Laidler ex rel Debra Legans’ second amended complaint is overruled
as to the 1st cause of action and sustained with 20 days
leave to amend as to the 2nd, 4th, and 6th causes of action; and sustained without
leave to amend as to the 5th cause of action. 
Defendants’ motion to strike
is denied as moot. 
The Court, sua sponte,
strikes Plaintiff’s allegations in the 7th, 8th, and 9th causes of action
against USC, as Plaintiff was not granted leave of Court to make such
amendments to his pleading.
 
Defendants County
of Los Angeles (“County”), Los Angeles Department of Health Services (“LADHS”),
Los Angeles County + University of Southern California Medical Center aka
LAC+USC Medical Center (“LAC+USC Medical”), and University of Southern
California (“USC”) (collectively, “Defendants”) demur to Plaintiff Marcellus
Laidler’s, individually, by and through his guardian ad litem and conservator
Debra Legans, (“Laidler”) (“Plaintiff”) second amended complaint (“SAC”).  (Notice of Demurrer, pgs. 1-2; C.C.P.
§§430.10(e), (f).)  Defendants also move
to strike portions of the SAC.  (Notice
of MTS, pgs. 2-3.)
 
Background
Plaintiff filed
his initial Complaint on June 29, 2022. 
On May 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed his first amended complaint (“FAC”)
against Defendants.  On October 31, 2023,
this Court overruled Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 10th cause of action and
sustained with leave to amend Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 1st, 2nd,
4th, 5th, and 6th causes of action.  On
November 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed his operative SAC alleging ten causes of
action: (1) violation of Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act [against all
Defendants]; (2) negligent hiring, retention, and supervision [against
County and USC]; (3) professional negligence [against County and USC];
(4) breach of fiduciary duty [against County and USC]; (5) lack of informed
consent;[1] (6) violation of
the Unruh Civil Rights Act [against County and USC]; (7) battery [against
USC and DOES 1-200]; (8) assault [against USC and DOES 1-200]; (9) false
imprisonment [against USC and DOES 1-200]; and (10) intentional infliction
of emotional distress [against all Defendants].
This action
arises out of Plaintiff’s admission to LAC+USC Medical on or about April-May
2021 for medical treatment for, among other things, ulcer of the esophagus. 
(SAC ¶15.)  Plaintiff alleges he at all relevant times was a “dependent
adult” as defined in Welfare and Institutions Code §15610.23 and suffered from
manic depression, bipolar disorder, and schizophrenia.  (SAC ¶16.) 

Plaintiff alleges
while he was at LAC+USC Medical, Defendants, including their clinical/nursing
staff, while acting as custodial caregivers for Plaintiff, so neglected,
abandoned, and abused his care by using seclusion and physical restraints as a
means of coercion, discipline, staff convenience, or staff retaliation upon
Plaintiff.  (SAC ¶19.)  Plaintiff alleges for approximately six
months from April of 2021 through October of 2021, when Plaintiff was admitted
to LAC+USC Medical, and while admitted to department “2E,” Plaintiff was
subjected to the unwarranted, unauthorized, and illegal use of 5-point physical
restraints by County clinical and non-clinical staff.  (SAC ¶21.) 
Plaintiff alleges this involved several male members of County clinical
staff using excessive force and unnecessary violence to physically dominate,
hurt, and humiliate Plaintiff.  (SAC ¶21.)  Plaintiff alleges this included smothering
his face with a pillow in order to suffocate him, causing him to black out on
at least one occasion; covering his nose and mouth with their hands to prevent
Plaintiff from breathing; sticking fingers in Plaintiffs eye to cause further
injury and humiliation.  (SAC ¶21.)  
Plaintiff alleges
he was restrained at least 50 times in a span of five months while in the care
and custody of Defendants and the rate of restraint was excessive and unlawful
in its basis for initiation and frequency, as physical restraints were
whimsically used as a failsafe mechanism to punish, taunt, humiliate, and
retaliate against Plaintiff in response to everything from psychiatric verbal
outbursts to simply agitating, annoying and “non-redirectable” behavior.  (SAC ¶22.) 
Plaintiff alleges he endured hours and days long restraints for
unspecified non-violent “offenses”, despite posing no health or safety risk to
himself or other staff and/or residents of the facility.  (SAC ¶22.) 

Plaintiff alleges
a pattern and practice of improper restraint initiations and duration by LAC+USC
Medical occurred from June 3, 2021, through October 6, 2021, where Plaintiff
was subject to several hour-long and sometimes continuous day confinements,
ostensibly in response to his “[inability] to following instructions” and
“[interference] with care.”  (SAC
¶23.)  Plaintiff alleges the majority of
these restraints—almost invariably during the first two to three months of
Plaintiff’s residency—were ordered due to Plaintiff “not listening” or
committing acts as innocuous as “spill[ing] Gatorade . . . and spill[ing]
water” and “not following instructions” (i.e. “creates an unsafe condition”) as
per Mayra Munoz, RN before she initiated restraints on September 18, 2021.  (SAC ¶23.) 
Plaintiff alleges nursing notes taken by Claudia Marin on September 9,
2021, indicate Plaintiff screaming at Nurse Marin after he reported being left
restrained and unattended for four to five hours.  (SAC ¶23.) 

Plaintiff alleges
County was at all times aware of LAC+USC Medical’s inordinately high restraint
rate compared to the state and national average and blatantly and negligently
disregarded its responsibility to investigate and ameliorate its systematic
deficiencies.  (SAC ¶25.)  Plaintiff alleges as a result, he endured
unlawful restraints on the following dates of admission: June 3, 4, 5, 7, 9,
10, 12, 15, 17, 18, 19, 21, 25, 26, 29, and 31, 2021, and August 5, 2021,
September 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 17, 18, 19, 20, 23, 24, 25, and 30, 2021,
October 1, 5, and 6, 2021.  (SAC ¶25.)  
Plaintiff alleges
most restraint incidents lasted several days, and were devoid of any iota of
legality, or adherence to applicable state or federal guidelines on restraints,
whereby County staff would essentially leave Plaintiff tied down—most often
along all 5 points of his body—for several days at a time, where he was cursed
at, taunted, ignored, and left with little to no provisions.  (SAC ¶27.) 
Plaintiff alleges this includes County’s intentional refusal to treat
Plaintiff’s critical condition by depriving him of necessary nutrition,
hygiene, and critical medical care during his day’s long periods of confinement.  (SAC ¶27.) 
Plaintiff alleges he suffered from the burn of thick leather belts
tightly wrapped around his wrists and ankles that were cutting against his skin
with his every movement or rotation, for days on end.  (SAC ¶27.) 
Plaintiff alleges during county’s inhumane and illegal detention,
Plaintiff could do nothing more than remain still to prevent the torturous
burns from the belts, urinary acid, and feces in which he was left to wallow.  (SAC ¶27.) 
Plaintiff alleges County clinical staff would seldom crack open his door
only to find Plaintiff laying in a pool of his own urine and feces.  (SAC ¶27.) 
Plaintiff alleges some would taunt him, while most utterly ignored his
dire medical needs.  (SAC ¶27.)  
On December 22,
2023, Defendants filed the instant demurrer and motion to strike.  On January 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed his
opposition.  On January 19, 2024,
Defendants filed their reply.
 
A.  
Demurrer
Summary of
Demurrer
Defendants demur
on the basis that Plaintiff’s claims are limited to the statutory confines on
liability against County and LAC+USC Medical because they are public
entities.  Defendants further demur to
Plaintiff’s 1st, 2nd, 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, and 9th causes of action on the
basis they fail state facts sufficient to constitute causes of action.  (Demurrer, pg. 2; C.C.P. §430.10(e).)  Defendants demur to the 4th, 5th, and 6th
causes of action as uncertain, ambiguous, and unintelligible.  (Demurrer, pg. 2; C.C.P. §430.10(f).)[2]  Defendants also demur to the 7th, 8th, and
9th causes of action as improperly brought against USC.  (Demurrer, pg. 2.)
 
          Meet and Confer
Before filing a
demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in
person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that
would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a).)  A declaration must be filed with a demurrer
regarding the results of the meet and confer process.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a)(3).)
Defendants’
counsel’s declaration states that on December 13, 2023, her office sent
correspondence to Plaintiff’s counsel outlining the deficiencies in the SAC and
requesting counsel call her office before December 15.  (Decl. of Olano ¶8, Exh. C.)  Defendants’ counsel declares she followed up
by email.  (Decl. of Olano ¶9.)  Defendants’ counsel declares both the
correspondence and the email went unanswered. 
(Decl. of Olano ¶10.)  Defendants’
counsel’s declaration is sufficient under C.C.P. §430.41(a)(3).
 
Legal Standard
“[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a
complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385,
388.)  A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (See Donabedian v. Mercury Insurance Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider
declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted
for the truth of their contents].)  For
purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed
to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of
law.  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital
District (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Failure to State
a Claim
Dependent Adult Abuse (Neglect) (Welfare & Institutions Code §§15600,
et seq.) (1st COA)
To state
a cause of action for neglect under Welfare & Institutions Code §§15600, et
seq., Plaintiff must allege the following elements: (1) Defendant had care
or custody of the Plaintiff involving ongoing responsibility for his basic
needs, which an able-bodied and fully competent adult would ordinarily be
capable of managing without assistance; (2) Plaintiff was 65 years of age or
older or a dependent adult while he was in Defendant’s care or custody; (3)
Defendant failed to use the degree of care that a reasonable person in the same
situation would have used in providing for Plaintiff’s basic needs, including
assisting in personal hygiene or in the provision of food, clothing, or
shelter; providing medical care for physical and mental health needs; protecting
Plaintiff from health and safety hazards; or preventing malnutrition or
dehydration; (4) Plaintiff was harmed; and (e) Defendant’s conduct was a
substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s harm. 
(CACI 3103.)
“Abuse
of an elder or a dependent adult” means “[p]hysical abuse, neglect,
abandonment, isolation, abduction, or other treatment with resulting physical
harm or pain or mental suffering” or “[t]he deprivation by a care custodian of
goods or services that are necessary to avoid physical harm or mental
suffering.”  (Welf. & Inst. Code
§15610.07(a).) 
          Plaintiff alleges that while he was
admitted to LAC+USC Medical, Defendants were responsible for his care and
custody.  (SAC ¶47.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants therefore had a
duty under federal and state regulations to provide his care, comfort, and
safety.  (SAC ¶47.)  Plaintiff alleges without limiting the generality
of the foregoing, said Defendant(s), had a duty to protect Plaintiff’s
well-being and care, which included rendering appropriate medical treatment and
care, upholding its legal and ethical obligations to Plaintiff, ensuring
compliance with medical ethics and legal standards while Plaintiff was under
LAC+USC Medical’s protection; and maintaining detailed records of the
Plaintiff’s psychiatric medical history, treatment plans, and progress,
reflecting the continuity of Plaintiff’s care. 
(SAC ¶47.)  
Plaintiff alleges
Defendant(s) had a duty to (a) Adequately train and supervise nursing staff to
perform proper custodial care; (b) Maintain accurate and authentic medical
records of Plaintiffs medical condition and activity; (c) Maintain adequate
nursing and support nursing staffing levels and at required ratios in order to
meet Plaintiff’s needs; and (d) Adhere and comply with Health and Safety Code
§§1180, et seq.; California Code of Regulations, Title 22, Division 5, Chapter
9; the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid (CMS) Conditions of Participation of
Hospitals as codified in the Code of Federal Regulations, Title 42, Part 482,
as to the use of seclusion and physical restraints.  (SAC ¶48.) 
Plaintiff alleges Defendants further owed a special duty of care to
Plaintiff, who was a person and unable to care for himself independently during
his admission at LAC+USC Medical.  (SAC
¶49.)
          Plaintiff alleges this affirmative
duty required a responsibility for a heightened degree of supervision and care
with respect to a dependent adult such as Plaintiff.  (SAC ¶50.) 
Plaintiff alleges this would include the duty to adequately care for
Plaintiff; whose mental state left him particularly vulnerable to harm.  (SAC ¶50.) 
Plaintiff alleges Defendant(s) breached the aforementioned duties to
Plaintiff.  (SAC ¶50.)  Plaintiff alleges these breaches were in
reckless disregard for the safety of Plaintiff and the probability that severe
injury would result from their failure to carefully adhere to their duties.  (SAC ¶50.) 
Plaintiff alleges Defendant(s) knew or should have known that there was
a probability that injury would result from the failure to adhere to their duties.
 (SAC ¶50.)  Plaintiff alleges in particular, and without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Defendant failed to do all that
was listed in paragraph 38(a)-(f), as well prevent the use of seclusion and/or
physical restraints as a means of coercion, discipline, staff convenience, or
staff retaliation on Plaintiff.  (SAC
¶50.)
Plaintiff alleges
he was restrained at least 50 times in a span of five months while in the care
and custody of Defendants and their rate of restraint was excessive and
unlawful in its basis for initiation and frequency, as physical restraints were
whimsically used as a failsafe mechanism to punish, taunt, humiliate, and
retaliate against Plaintiff in response to everything from psychiatric verbal
outbursts to simply agitating, annoying and “non-redirectable” behavior.  (SAC ¶51.) 
Plaintiff alleges he endured hours and days long restraints for
unspecified non-violent “offenses”, despite posing no health or safety risk to
himself or other staff and/or residents of the facility.  (SAC ¶51.) 
Plaintiff includes a list of dates and incidents in which “Code Gold” (4
point) restraining initiation occurred, particularly in his first month of
admission in June 2021, and continued through October 2021.  (SAC ¶53.) 
Plaintiff alleges County Defendants were at all times aware of LAC + USC
Medical’s inordinately high restraint rate compared to the state and national
average and disregarded its responsibility to investigate and ameliorate its
systematic deficiencies, resulting in Plaintiff continuing to endure restraints
on the days listed in the pleading.  (SAC
¶54.)
Plaintiff alleges
as a proximate, direct, and legal result of the acts and omissions of
Defendant(s) and resulting breach of their duties to Plaintiff as alleged
herein, Plaintiff was harmed and suffered damages due to severe injuries, pain,
emotional distress, loss of dignity, and humiliation, and mental suffering.  (SAC ¶60.) 
Plaintiff alleges he is entitled to recover damages for his pain and
suffering pursuant to Welfare & Institutions Code §15657(b).  (SAC ¶60.)
          Plaintiff sufficiently alleges facts
for a cause of action under Welfare & Institutions Code §§15600 et
seq.  Plaintiff sufficiently
alleges (1) Defendant had care or custody of Plaintiff involving ongoing
responsibility for his basic needs, which an able-bodied and fully competent
adult would ordinarily be capable of managing without assistance; (2) Plaintiff
was a dependent adult while he was in Defendant’s care or custody; (3)
Defendant failed to use the degree of care that a reasonable person in the same
situation would have used in providing for Plaintiff’s basic needs, including
assisting in personal hygiene and protecting Plaintiff from health and safety
hazards by way of Defendants’ use of 4-point physical restraints and use of
excessive force, such as smothering Plaintiff’s face with a pillow to suffocate
him, covering Plaintiff’s nose and mouth to prevent him from breathing, and
sticking fingers in Plaintiff’s eyes; 
(4) Plaintiff was harmed by Defendant’s use of thick leather belts tied
around him wrists and ankles which caused burns to his skin, as well as burns
from urinary acid and feces in which he was left to wallow for days at a time,
in addition to taunts to humiliate Plaintiff; and (e) Defendants’ conduct was a
substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s harm, aside from permanent injury,
skin abscesses, and scarring to Plaintiff’s hands, feet, ankles and wrists; and
injuries to Plaintiff’s legs, hips and eyes due to the improper use of force
administered during his illegal restraints, Plaintiff does and will continue to
suffer from lifelong mental and psychological post-traumatic injuries resulting
from his unwarranted, unauthorized, and illegal physical restraints.  (See SAC ¶¶21-30.)
          Plaintiff alleges with specificity how
and what manner each Defendant was responsible for the alleged violations
against Plaintiff.  (Carter v. Prime
Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396,
410; Goldrich
v. Natural Y Surgical Spec., Inc. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 772, 782-783; see
SAC ¶¶52-58.)  
Further, the
Second Amended Complaint sufficiently pleads facts taking the claim out of the realm
of professional negligence.  A cause of
action for dependent adult abuse must be based upon “egregious acts of
misconduct distinct from professional negligence.”  (Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004)
32 Cal.4th 771, 784.) Plaintiff
alleges, “This included smothering his face with a pillow in order to
suffocate him, causing him to black out on at least one occasion; covering his
nose and mouth with their hands to prevent Plaintiff from breathing; sticking
fingers in Plaintiff’s eye to cause further injury and humiliation.”  (SAC, ¶ 21.) 
The Court finds that this allegation is of an egregious act of misconduct
distinct from professional negligence.  
          Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to
Plaintiff’s 1st cause of action for dependent adult abuse (neglect) is overruled.
 
          Negligent Hiring, Training, and
Retention (2nd COA)
The elements of a
cause of action for negligent hiring, training, and retention are: (1) the employer
defendant hired the employee; (2) the employee was unfit or incompetent to
perform the work for which they were hired; (3) the employer defendant knew or
should have known the employee was unfit or incompetent and that the unfitness
or incompetence created a particular risk to others; (4) the employee’s
unfitness or incompetence harmed plaintiff; and (5) the
employer
defendant’s negligence in hiring, supervising, or retaining the employee was a
substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.  (CACI 426.)
          Plaintiff alleges County and USC when
hiring agents, employees, personnel,
and/or staff
whose position-job duties entailed supervising, monitoring, mentoring, caring, and/or
otherwise being entrusted and responsible for protecting the safety and
well-being of patient(s) at LAC+USC Medical, owed and had a duty to adequately
and properly investigate, hire, train, and supervise, as well as conduct an
adequate background check into the education, training, and/or job-employment
experience of agents, employees, personnel, and/or staff prior to them being
hired, so as to verify, determine, and ensure each were qualified or competent
to undertake the responsibilities required when working with, guiding,
supervising, monitoring, mentoring, caring, or otherwise being entrusted and
responsible for protecting the safety and well-being of dependent adult
patient(s), especially those suffering from mental illness, grave disability,
incompetence, and/or diminished capacity. 
(SAC ¶65.)
          Plaintiff alleges Defendant(s)
negligently breached their duties to Plaintiff as herein alleged throughout his
admission at LAC+USC Medical by failing to adequately and properly investigate,
hire, train, and supervise, as well as conduct an adequate background check in
assessing the truth and accuracy of the education, training, and/or experience
of agents, employees, personnel, and/or staff prior to them being hired, so as
to verify, determine, and ensure each were qualified or competent to be
entrusted to undertake the responsibilities required when working with,
guiding, supervising, monitoring, mentoring, or otherwise being responsible
for protecting
the safety and well-being of said dependent adult patient(s) suffering from
mental illness, grave disability, incompetence, and/or diminished capacity,
such that they would be able to recognize instances or potentials for problems,
conflict, and harm to include, without limitation, use of seclusion and/or
physical restraints as a means of coercion, discipline, staff convenience, or
staff retaliation on Plaintiff, and reporting same as mandated by law.  (SAC ¶66.)
          Plaintiff alleges County and USC knew
or should have known that the aforementioned doctors, nurses, and staff of
LAC+USC Medical were unfit, or incompetent given the inordinate rate and manner
of restraint initiation and public data establishing that LAC+USC Medical rates
of retention far exceed the state national average.  (SAC ¶67.) 
Plaintiff alleges County and USC knew or should have known that the
aforementioned doctors, nurses, and staff of LAC+USC Medical were unfit or
incompetent given the record-breaking rate and duration of restraints put on
Plaintiff over the course of his five-month-long period of admission and
fifty-plus restraint orders that should have prompted a thorough evaluation of
past incidents.  (SAC ¶67.)  Plaintiff alleges he was predominantly,
repeatedly, and indefinitely put on non-violent constraints irrespective of the
purported grounds for administering restraints and irrespective of the measures
necessary to ensure that restraints were administered under the most humane
conditions and removed in accordance with appropriate medical standard of care
relative to restraint removal and patient re-integration post-restraint
administration.  (SAC ¶67.)  
Plaintiff alleges
these conditions were created by the following negligent and/or unfit providers
over the course of Plaintiff’s residence from June of 2021 through October of
2021: Jin Sol G. Lee, MD, Morgan Jonathan Hawkins, MD, Robert James Tamai, MD,
Carol M. Kamjou, MD, William Jacob Hertzing, MD, Ada Rennie Castillo, MD, Ivy
Lee De Quiros, MD, Kevin Andrew Bechler, MD, Philip Christopher Sheth, MD,
Hamida KhanMohammed, MD, Marshall Yuan, MD, Zhaojun Huang, MD, Magnolia M
Eugenio, MD, Wanda Faye Banks, MD, and Matthew Stanley Johnson, MD; and nurses
Georgina Thomas, RN, Kenechukwu Tony Agu, NA, Nancy Valdez, LVN, Rudelia
Collins, RN, Edith Ezeani, LVN, Odukoya Odutola, RN, Mona Toeque, RN, Priscilla
Abaekobe, RN, Hector Barrales, NA, Dalia Morales, Johnny Kanu, Alemayehu
Negussie, RN, Rigat Asfaha, NA Noemy Pulido, Patrice Mckinstry, RN, Charles
Nwadiogu, Yilma Belaineh, RN, Pauline Golit, RN, Uche Onwenna, NA, Zimena
Toledo Intriago, RN, Raquel Torres, Solomon Onuoha, NA, Marc Poblete, Maria
Litchel Capiral, RN, Annette Cole Veal, RN, Girma Ashenafi, Cherrie Mae Tan,
RN, Roselyn Ogbuene, Helen Ugwu, Mayra Munoz Taboada, RN, Ma Fides Nayve, CMA,
Evelyn Virgo, LVN, Ye Htet Aung, Michael Miranda, NA, Enrico Arrieta, RN, Edgar
Alegria , Candace Sullivan, NA, Irena Petrovich, RN, Rosalia Rivera, RN, Jean
Pierre, NA, Ananda Gallegos, RN, and Lewis Amadi, were negligent in their
failure to identify and ameliorate Plaintiff’s rate and manner of detention, as
it was apparent that Plaintiff was being restrained at an alarming rate.  (SAC ¶67.)
Plaintiff alleges
County and USC vis-à-vis LAC+USC Medical doctors, nurses and staff flouted
measures necessary to make sure its staff was fit, competent, and sufficient in
quantity, which is prescribed by statute, and instead made Plaintiff endure the
cruelest and most inhumane of circumstances to ameliorate their staffing deficiencies,
all at the expense of Plaintiff’s physical and mental health and safety.  (SAC ¶68.)
Plaintiff alleges
as a proximate, direct, and legal result of the acts and omissions of
Defendant(s) and resulting breach of their duties to Plaintiff as alleged
herein, Plaintiff was harmed and suffered damages due to severe injuries, pain,
emotional distress, loss of dignity, and humiliation, and mental suffering.  (SAC ¶69.) 
Plaintiff alleges but for USC and County vis-à-vis LAC+USC Medical’s
negligent hiring and supervision, Plaintiff would not have endured the several
months of torture that resulted in the physical, psychological, and emotional
injuries alleged herein.  (SAC ¶69.)
          Plaintiff fails to allege that USC and
the County knew or should have known that the employees named were unfit or
incompetent and that the unfitness or incompetence created a particular risk to
others.  Plaintiff fails to allege a
causal connection between the allegedly negligent hiring, training, retention,
and supervision or the unfitness of any employee and Plaintiff’s claimed
injuries. Although the SAC lists the names of individuals involved in the care
and treatment of Plaintiff, it does not allege facts that constitute a causal
link or Defendants’ knowledge of unfitness or incompetence. Further, the
inclusion of allegations regarding “the record-breaking rate and duration of
restraints” placed do not go to knowledge of unfitness or incompetence or any
causal link between alleged unfitness of employees and Plaintiff’s claimed
injuries.
          Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to
Plaintiff’s 2nd cause of action for negligent hiring, training, and retention
is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
          Breach of Fiduciary Duty (4th COA)
The elements of a
cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty are: (1) existence of a fiduciary
duty; (2) breach of the fiduciary duty; and (3) damage proximately caused by
the breach.  (Pierce v. Lyman
(1991) 1 Cal.App.4th 1093, 1101.)
“A fiduciary
relationship is ‘any relation existing between parties to a transaction wherein
one of the parties is in duty bound to act with the utmost good faith for the
benefit of the other party. Such a relation ordinarily arises where a
confidence is reposed by one person in the integrity of another, and in such a
relation the party in whom the confidence is reposed, if he voluntarily accepts
or assumes to accept the confidence, can take no advantage from his acts
relating to the interest of the other party without the latter’s knowledge or
consent. . . .’” (Wolf v. Superior Court (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 25, 29,
internal citations omitted.)
Plaintiff alleges
by virtue of the special doctor-relationship created throughout Plaintiff’s
admission at LAC+USC Medical, Defendant(s) owed a duty of ordinary care to
Plaintiff to use the degree of care, skill, knowledge, training, and expertise
that a reasonably prudent person would use. 
(SAC ¶71.)  Plaintiff alleges
Defendant(s) breached their fiduciary duty to Plaintiff as herein alleged throughout
his admission at LAC+USC Medical.  (FAC
¶51.)
Plaintiff alleges
by virtue of Defendant(s) negligently breached their duties to Plaintiff as
herein alleged throughout his admission at LAC+USC Medical.  (FAC ¶72.)
Plaintiff alleges
as a proximate, direct, and legal result of the acts and omissions of
Defendant(s) and resulting breach of their duties to Plaintiff as alleged
herein, Plaintiff was harmed and suffered damages due to severe injuries, pain,
emotional distress, loss of dignity, and humiliation, and mental suffering.  (SAC ¶73.)
Plaintiff fails
to allege the fiduciary duty arising from law that subjects USC and County to
liability under this cause of action.
Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 4th cause of action for breach of fiduciary
duty is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
          Lack of Informed Consent (5th COA)
A cause of action
for failure to obtain informed consent requires the following elements: (1) defendant
performed a medical procedure on plaintiff; (2) defendant did not disclose to
plaintiff the important potential results and risks of and alternatives to the
medical procedure; (3) a reasonable person in plaintiff’s position would not
have agreed to the medical procedure if that person had been adequately
informed; and (4) plaintiff was harmed by a result or risk that defendant
should have explained.  (CACI 533.)
           Plaintiff concedes that he voluntarily
withdrew his cause of action for lack of informed consent and mistakenly failed
to remove the cause of action from the caption page.
          Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to
Plaintiff’s 5th cause of action for lack of informed consent is sustained without
leave to amend.
 
          Violation of the Unruh Civil Rights
Act (6th COA)
A cause of action
under the Unruh Civil Rights Act must allege the following elements: (1) that
defendant denied/aided or incited a denial of or discriminated or made a
distinction that denied full and equal accommodations/ advantages/
facilities/ privileges/ services to plaintiff; (2) that a substantial motivating reason
for defendant’s conduct was its perception of plaintiff’s sex/ race/ color/ religion/
ancestry/ national origin/ medical condition/ genetic information/ marital
status/ sexual orientation/ citizenship/ primary language/ immigration status/
other actionable characteristic; (3) that plaintiff was harmed; and (4) that
defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.  (CACI 3060.)
There
are two causation elements: There must be a causal link between the
discriminatory intent and the adverse action (see element 2), and there must be
a causal link between the adverse action and the harm (see element 4).  (CACI 3060, Directions for Use.)
Whether a
defendant is a “business establishment” is decided as an issue of law.  (Rotary Club of Duarte v. Board of
Directors (1986) 178 Cal.App.3d 1035, 1050.)
“[T]he language
and history of the Unruh Act indicate that the legislative object was to
prohibit intentional discrimination in access to public accommodations. We have
been directed to no authority, nor have we located any, that would justify
extension of a disparate impact test, which has been developed and applied by
the federal courts primarily in employment discrimination cases, to a general
discrimination-in-public-accommodations statute like the Unruh Act. Although
evidence of adverse impact on a particular group of persons may have probative
value in public accommodations cases and should therefore be admitted in
appropriate cases subject to the general rules of evidence, a plaintiff must
nonetheless plead and prove a case of intentional discrimination to recover
under the Act.”  (Harris v. Capital
Growth Investors XIV (1991) 52 Cal.3d 1142, 1149, 1175.)
          Plaintiff alleges as a result of the
aforementioned acts, omissions, and conduct as herein alleged, Defendant(s)
denied Plaintiff full and equal protection under the laws of the State of
California and the United States of America, in clear violation of Civil Code
§§51, et seq.  (SAC ¶82.)
Plaintiff alleges
a motivating reason for the acts, omissions, and conduct of Defendant(s), was their
perception of, and more particularly, discrimination toward, Plaintiff’s
ethnicity or race as an African American. 
(SAC ¶83.)  
Plaintiff alleges
Defendants’ acts, omission, and conduct was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff
to suffer serious, physical, psychological, mental, and emotional injuries.  (SAC ¶84.) 
Plaintiff alleges there is a causal link between the adverse actions of
County Defendants and USC vis-à-vis LAC+USC Medical doctors, nurses, and staff
and the harm suffered by Plaintiff because Plaintiff’s injuries are a direct
consequence of inhumane restraint and detention measures administered by County
Defendants and USC vis-à-vis LAC+USC Medical doctors, nurses, and staff, who
administered such inhumane practices for no reason but to physically, mentally
and emotionally subdue and humiliate Plaintiff whom Defendants wrongly
perceived as a usual threat on the basis of his race and ethnicity as an
African American male.  (SAC ¶84.)  Plaintiff alleges the adverse restraint
actions led to the physical, mental, and psychological injuries bore by
Plaintiff to this day and for the rest of his life, as he deals with frequent
night terrors of being strapped to a bed in “Department 2E” where LAC+USC
Medical staff are taunting and torturing him. 
(SAC ¶84.)  Plaintiff alleges he
also lives with scars and skin abrasions that serve as direct and constant
reminders of the adverse actions endured at the hands of the following County
Defendants’ discriminatory practices. 
(SAC ¶84.)
          Plaintiff fails to allege a
causal link between the discriminatory intent and the adverse action and merely
sets forth conclusory allegations that Defendants’ alleged discriminatory
conduct was motivated by Plaintiff’s race rather than meeting the requisite
pleading standard for intentional discrimination.  (See CACI 3060, Directions for Use; Harris,
52 Cal.3d at pg. 1175.)  Further,
Plaintiff fails to allege USC and County are “business establishments” as a
matter of law.  (Rotary Club of Duarte,
178 Cal.App.3d at pg. 1050.)
          Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to
Plaintiff’s 6th cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave to
amend.
 
Uncertainty
A demurrer for
uncertainty will be sustained only where the complaint is so bad that defendant
cannot reasonably respond—i.e., he or she cannot reasonably determine what
issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed
against him or her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s
of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)
If the complaint
contains enough facts to apprise defendant of the issues it is being asked to
meet, failure to label each cause of action is not ground for demurrer:
“Although inconvenient, annoying and inconsiderate, the lack of labels . . .
does not substantially impair [defendant’s] ability to understand the
complaint.” (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
135, 139 n.2.)
Plaintiffs’ 4th
and 6th causes of action are not so uncertain that Defendants cannot reasonably
determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are
directed against them.
Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer on the basis of uncertainty is overruled.
 
Conclusion
Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiff’s SAC is overruled as to the 1st cause of
action and sustained with 20 days leave to amend as to the 2nd, 4th, and
6th causes of action.  Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiff’s SAC is sustained without leave to amend as to
the 5th cause of action.
Moving Party to
give notice.
 
B.   
Defendants’ Motion to Strike
In light of the
Court’s ruling on the demurrer, Defendants’ motion to strike is denied as moot.
 
C.   
The Court’s Motion to Strike
The Court moves, sua
sponte, to strike Plaintiff’s allegations against USC in the 7th, 8th, and
9th causes of action, as Plaintiff was not granted leave of Court to make such
amendments to his pleading.
 
Legal Standard 
C.C.P. §436
provides that the Court may . . . at any time within its discretion and upon
terms it deems proper, “[s]trike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn
or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order
of the court.”  (C.C.P. §436(b).) 
 
Discussion
It is the general
rule that when a court “sustains a demurrer with leave to amend, the scope of
the grant of leave is ordinarily a limited one. It gives the pleader an
opportunity to cure the defects in the particular causes of action to which the
demurrer was sustained, but that is all.”  (Community Water Coalition v. Santa
Cruz County Local Agency Formation Commission (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 1317,
1329.)  “The Plaintiff may not amend the
complaint to add a new cause of action without having obtained permission to do
so, unless the new cause of action is within the scope of the order granting
leave to amend.”  (Id., quoting Harris
v. Wachovia Mortgage, FSB (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023.)  “[L]eave to amend must be construed as
permission to the pleader to amend the cause of action which he pleaded in the
pleading to which the demurrer has been sustained.” (People ex rel. Department
of Public Works v. Clauson (1957) 248 Cal.App.2d 770, 785.)
The prior
demurrer and motion to strike did not address Plaintiff’s causes of action
against USC for battery (7th cause of action), assault (8th cause of action),
and false imprisonment (9th cause of action) because those causes of action
were alleged against Does 1-200 in the FAC.  Here, in the SAC, these causes of action are
newly stated against USC without leave of this Court.  Plaintiff was not permitted to amend his
pleading to on these causes of action based on this Court’s 10/31/23 Ruling, or
by Plaintiff moving for leave of this Court to amend.
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
allegations against USC in the 7th, 8th, and 9th causes of action are stricken
from Plaintiff’s SAC.
 
Conclusion
The Court, sua
sponte, strikes Plaintiff’s allegations against USC in the 7th, 8th, and
9th causes of action.
 
 
Dated:  January
_____, 2024
                                                                             





  