  Case Number:  21STCV40783    Hearing Date:   March 25, 2024    Dept:  14 Bodan v KanCase Background
 
Plaintiff alleges that smoke fumes
from her neighbors are permeating her apartment.
 
On July 25, 2022, Plaintiff filed her
Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) for (1) Breach of Implied Warranty of
Habitability; (2) Nuisance; (3) Negligence; (4) Breach of the Covenant of Quiet
Enjoyment; and (5) Covid-19 Retaliation against Defendant KAN Investment
Limited, LLC (“KAN”). 
 
On December 5, 2022, Defendant KAN
filed its Answer.
 
On July 28, 2023, this court
granted summary adjudication in favor of Defendant KAN as to the fifth cause of
action.
 
            Jury trial
is currently set for March 25, 2024.
 
Instant Motion
 
Plaintiff now moves this court for an
order continuing the trial to November of 2024.
 
Decision
 
The motion is GRANTED, in part.
Trial is continued to October 21, 2024, at 9:00 am. Final Status Conference is
set for October 9, 2024, at 10:00 am. All counsel and unrepresented parties are
to appear IN PERSON at the Final Status Conference. All discovery-related
deadlines will track the new date, as well as the deadlines for motions in
limine and the preparation of trial documents.
 
Discussion
 
            California
Rules of Court Rule 3.1332(a) provides that trial dates are to be treated as
firm. However, Rule 3.1332(c) provides that, although continuances are
“disfavored,” requests should be considered on an individual basis. That
subsection also includes a non-exhaustive list of possible grounds for a
continuance.
 
            Plaintiff brings
her motion on four bases (1) that she is unavailable because she is ill and
starting a new job, (2) that she wishes to retain counsel, (3) that she has
been unable to obtain witness testimony and evidence, and (4) that the parties
are engaged in another lawsuit which is interfering with this one.
 
            Getting a
new job is not a basis for a trial continuance; so long as Plaintiff remains self-represented
counsel, she is expected to balance the demands of her life and this case as
counsel would. For that same reason, the mere existence of another case is not
a ground for continuance. Last, the mere prospect of obtaining counsel is not a
proper basis for continuing a case which is already two years old.
 
            However,
Plaintiff’s medical issues, specifically her need for eye surgery as detailed
in the motion, are a proper basis for a continuance. Those issues have rendered
Plaintiff unable to properly close out the case, locate witnesses, and prepare
for trial. 
 
            Furthermore,
this court is presently engaged in trial on a case that is older than this one.
The court also has older cases set throughout the coming months. The best
chance that the court and parties have to get this case tried with minimal
friction is to set it out into October of this year, when there is only one
older case in the entire month.
 
Conclusion
 
            Because Plaintiff
has urgent medical issues to address, and because this court is already engaged
in trial, the motion is GRANTED, in part. Trial is continued to October
21, 2024, at 9:00 am. Final Status Conference is set for October 9, 2024, at
10:00 am. All counsel and unrepresented parties are to appear IN PERSON at the
Final Status Conference. All discovery-related deadlines will track the new
date, as well as the deadlines for motions in limine and the preparation of
trial documents.