  Case Number:  23STCV13225    Hearing Date:   September 5, 2024    Dept:  50  
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



MARIBEL AVILA,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
ALFRED
  HONG, MD, FACOG, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


23STCV13225




Hearing Date:


September 5, 2024




Hearing Time:


2:00 p.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:  
 
MOTION FOR
  SUMMARY JUDGMENT OF DEFENDANT JONATHAN AZIZZADEH, M.D.
 



 
 
Background
Plaintiff Maribel Avila
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action on June 9, 2023 against Defendants Alfred Hong,
MD, FACOG; Jamie Chia Lin, MD; Jonathan Azizzadeh, MD; Joseph Matthew Nussbaum,
MD; Ben B Ha, MD, FACOG; and CHA Hollywood Presbyterian Medical Center. The
Complaint alleges one cause of action for medical negligence. 
Jonathan Azizzadeh, M.D.
(“Azizzadeh”) now moves
the Court for an order granting summary judgment in his favor as to Plaintiff’s
Complaint. Plaintiff opposes.  
Evidentiary Objections 
The
Court rules on Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections as follows: 
Objection
No. 1: overruled  
Objection
No. 2: sustained as to subsections e through l of paragraph 4, overruled as to
the remainder. 
Plaintiff
cites to Garibay v. Hemmat (2008) 161
Cal.App.4th 735, 737, where “Plaintiffs Alejandra Garibay (Garibay) and
Toby C. Barron, Jr., appeal[ed] from a judgment entered after the trial court
granted summary judgment on plaintiffs’ claim for medical malpractice arising
from surgery performed on Garibay by defendant Mehdi Hemmat, M.D. (Dr. Hemmat).
Defendant’s summary judgment motion relied solely on the opinion of a medical
expert witness that Dr. Hemmat did not commit medical malpractice. The medical
expert witness based his opinion on facts derived from his review of hospital
and medical records.” The Court of Appeal noted that “[t]hese records were not
properly admitted into evidence under the business records exception to the
hearsay rule, however, and did not accompany the declaration or the summary
judgment motion. We find that the defendant moving for summary judgment failed
to meet his burden of production of evidence, and reverse.” (Ibid.) 
The
Garibay Court noted that
“Dr. Hemmat’s summary judgment motion
was not supported by his deposition testimony or declaration, or by any other
admissible evidence. The sole support for the summary judgment motion was Dr.
Frumovitz’s medical expert witness declaration. Dr. Frumovitz’s declaration
stated that he had reviewed medical records from Dr. Hemmat’s office and from
Kaiser Harbor City Hospital. The declaration also referred to an operative note
by Dr. Moosadazehi, who performed the second bilateral tubal ligation on
Garibay. Neither the medical records nor the operative note were in evidence.”
(Garibay v. Hemmat, supra, 161 Cal.App.4th at pp. 741-742.) The Court found that “Dr.
Frumovitz had no personal knowledge of the underlying facts of the case, and
attempted to testify to facts derived from medical and hospital records
which were not properly before the court. Therefore his declaration
of alleged facts had no evidentiary foundation. An expert’s opinion based on
assumptions of fact without evidentiary support has no evidentiary value.” (Id. at p.
743.)  
Here, Azizzadeh submits the Declaration of James A. Macer in support of the motion. Dr.
Macer states that in forming the opinions expressed in his declaration, he relied
on certain materials specified in paragraph 4 of his declaration. (Macer Decl.,
¶ 4.) It appears that Azizzadeh did provide copies of the materials
referenced in subsections a-d of paragraph 4 of Dr. Macer’s declaration,
specifically, the Complaint, Plaintiff’s
Medical Records from Hollywood Presbyterian Medical Center, Plaintiff’s
Pathology Report from Hollywood Presbyterian Medical Center, and Plaintiff’s
Medical Records from Los Angeles General Medical Center. (Macer Decl., ¶ 4; see
Gonzalez Decl., ¶¶ 3-6, Exs. B-E.) By contrast, in Garibay v. Hemmat, supra,
161 Cal.App.4th at page 737, the Court of Appeal
found that “[t]he summary judgment motion was insufficient because there were no
facts before the court on which the expert medical witness could rely to form
his opinion.” (Emphasis added.) In addition, in the reply, Azizzadeh notes that
his separate statement only references Exhibits B, C, D, and E, which were
provided in connection with the motion, as set forth above. (Gonzalez Decl., ¶¶ 3-6.)
The
Court rules on Azizzadeh’s evidentiary objections as follows: 
Objection
No. 1: overruled  
Objection
No. 2: overruled 
Objection
No. 3: overruled 
Objection
No. 4: overruled 
Legal Standard
“[A] motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) The moving party bears the initial burden of production to
make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) If
the moving party carries this burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party
to make a prima facie showing that a triable issue of material fact exists. (Ibid.)
Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing
summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39
Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿
“A
defendant or cross-defendant has met that party’s burden of showing that a
cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements
of the cause of action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established,
or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action. Once the defendant
or cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff or
cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) 
Discussion 
A.   
Allegations of the Complaint
In the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges that “on
June 8, 2022, Plaintiff underwent a caesarian section and bilateral tube
ligation at the facilities of CHA HOLLYWOOD PRESBYTERIAN MEDICAL CENTER. The
procedure was performed by Defendant ALFRED HONG, MD, FACOG, the attending
provider and JONATHAN AZIZZADEH, MD assisted.” (Compl., ¶ 20.) Plaintiff
alleges that “[t]he procedure and the following care and treatment were
negligently [sic] resulting in a post-partum hemorrhage.” (Compl., ¶ 20.) Plaintiff
also alleges that “[o]n June 8, 2022, Defendants ALFRED HONG, MD, FACOG, JAMIE
CHIA LIN, MD, and JONATHAN AZIZZADEH, MD, negligently performed a D&C and
total abdominal hysterectomy. During the procedure, Plaintiff MARIBEL AVILA’s
colon was negligently perforated.” (Compl., ¶ 21.) Plaintiff alleges that “[o]n
June 13, 2022, despite ongoing abdominal distention and pain, elevated WBC,
tachycardia, nausea, vomiting, and other ongoing symptoms, without performing
or ordering any further blood work or imaging to further determine the cause of
MARIBEL AVILA’s symptoms, [sic] was discharged from CHA HOLLYWOOD PRESBYTERIAN
MEDICAL CENTER.” (Compl., ¶ 23.) 
Plaintiff alleges that “[a]s a direct and proximate result of the acts
and omissions of the Defendants, Plaintiff MARIBEL AVILA sustained serious and
severe personal injuries, as well as pain, suffering, and mental and emotional
anxiety. Said injuries have caused and will continue to cause Plaintiff MARIBEL
AVILA to sustain pain, physical disability, disfigurement, anxiety, and
disruption of the nervous system, all to her general damages according to proof
at the time of trial.” (Compl., ¶ 24.) Plaintiff alleges that “[a]s a further direct
and proximate result of the acts and omissions of the Defendants, Plaintiff
MARIBEL AVILA was compelled to and did employ the services of physicians,
surgeons, nurses and the like to handle and care for Plaintiff MARIBEL AVILA’s
treatment, thereby incurring medical, professional and incidental expenses.”
(Compl., ¶ 25.) “Specifically, on or around June 15, 2022, Plaintiff MARIBEL
AVILA was admitted to LAC+USC Medical Center where she underwent an emergency
exploratory laparotomy [sic] was diagnosed with multiple colon perforations.
Due to the severity of injuries MARIBEL AVILA had to undergo multiple extensive
surgeries and procedures, suffered from septic shock, kidney failure, and other
injuries.” (Compl., ¶ 26.) 
B.   
Plaintiff’s First Cause of Action for Medical
Negligence
“The elements of a cause of action for
medical malpractice are: (1) a duty to use such skill, prudence, and diligence
as other members of the profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach
of the duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between the negligent
conduct and the injury; and (4) resulting loss or damage.” (Lattimore
v. Dickey (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th
959, 968 [internal citations omitted].) 
In the instant
motion, Azizzadeh
asserts that “there are no triable issues of material fact because, as outlined
in the declaration of expert James A. Macer, M.D., there was no breach in the
standard of care and no act or omission on the part of JONATHAN AZIZZADEH, M.D.
that caused or contributed to the alleged injuries of Plaintiff.” (Mot. at p.
3:22-25.)
Azizzadeh submits the
Declaration of James A. Macer, M.D., a physician licensed to practice medicine
by the State of California. (Macer Decl., ¶ 1.) In his supporting declaration, Dr. Macer states
that “[o]n January
8, 2022, Plaintiff Maribel Avila [DOB: 10/25/1980] presented to Hollywood
Presbyterian Medical Center for a planned C-section and bilateral tube ligation
procedure. The procedure was performed by Alfred S. Hong, M.D. with Jonathan
Azizzadeh, M.D. assisting. It began at or around 8:11 a.m. and was performed
under epidural anesthesia and the infant was delivered without issue.” (Macer
Decl., ¶ 5(a).) “Bilateral tubal ligation was performed, after which Dr. Hong
noted there was excellent hemostasis.” (Macer Decl., ¶ 5(b).) “An ovarian cyst,
about 5cm in size, was observed. This was first ruptured using the Bovie
cautery with clear serosanguinous fluid, and then clamped at the base with a
Peon clamp. The cyst was then excised.” (Macer Decl., ¶ 5(c).) “Surgical
pathology of Ms. Avila’s right and left fallopian tube revealed unremarkable
tubal mucosa and muscular wall in complete cross sections. Pathology of her
right ovary revealed a benign corpora luteum cyst.” (Macer Decl., ¶ 5(d).) 
Following the procedure, “Dr.
Hong was notified Ms. Avila had posthemorrhagic hydrocephalus.” (Macer Decl., ¶
5(g).) “At or around 3:05 p.m., obstetrician-gynecologist Dr. Jamie C. Lin
evaluated Ms. Avila. He was notified of Ms. Avila’s vital signs and condition,
with a total of 1486cc blood loss. Ms. Avila’s hemoglobin was low at 7.1. Dr.
Lin recommended that the patient be returned to the operating room.” (Macer
Decl., ¶ 5(k).) “A decision was made to take Ms. Avila to the operating room
for a suction dilation and curettage (‘D&C’) procedure, with possible
hysterectomy. The risks and benefits of the procedure were discussed with Ms.
Avila, and she agreed to proceed with the surgery under general anesthesia.”
(Macer Decl., ¶ 5(l).) “The procedure was performed by Dr. Lin and Dr. Hong,
with Dr. Azizzadeh assisting.” (Macer Decl., ¶ 5(m).) 
“A decision was made to convert the D&C
procedure into an exploratory laparotomy...” (Macer Decl., ¶ 5(m).) “Upon
entering the peritoneum, bleeding was observed. In a post-operative note, Dr.
Hong notes that upon entry into the abdomen, it was observed that the
hysterotomy sutures were all intact, and that the bleeding was not coming from
the prior uterine incision site. The bilateral tubal ligation sutures were also
intact, as well as the sutures from the right ovarian cystectomy. When the
peritoneum was opened, the uterus was visualized and appeared to be swollen and
bruised, with possible bleeding into the myometrium, possibly due to multiple
large myomas (benign growths in the smooth muscles of the uterus). The decision
was made to proceed with a hysterectomy due to bleeding. Bilateral round
ligaments were doubly clamped, transected, and ligated. Excellent hemostasis
was observed.” (Macer Decl., ¶ 5(n).) “A supracervical
hysterectomy was then performed.” (Macer Decl., ¶ 5(o).) 
“Excellent hemostasis was observed throughout the
procedure. All sponge, lap, instrument, and needle counts were correct at the
end of the procedure. The patient remained intubated and was transferred to a
recovery room. Surgical pathology on the uterus noted (1) prominent
implantation site intermediate trophoblasts within myometrium, compatible with
exaggerated placental site; (2) leiomyomata (up to 2 cm); and (3) gestational
endometrium.” (Macer Decl., ¶ 5(p).) 
“The following day, Ms. Avila
was administered two blood transfusions. She was extubated to normal oxygen.
She was awake, alert, and following commands. Her white blood cell count
trended high at 14.0 K/uL and the following day it was at 17 K/uL. Therefore,
an infectious disease consult was ordered. Dr. Joseph S. Nussbaum of Infectious
Disease assessed the patient and noted an isolated post-operative fever and
leukocytosis after acute blood loss anemia. He thought both the fever and
leukocytosis could be due to the brisk bleeding she encountered, but infection
would be difficult to exclude. Therefore, Dr. Nussbaum recommended continuing
the antibiotic treatment of ceftriaxone and metronidazole that she was already
on.” (Macer Decl., ¶ 5(r).) “Ms. Avila had no further bleeding on June 10,
2022, two-days post-op. She continued to report she was feeling better the
following days and was discharged home on June 13, 2022 in stable condition.”
(Macer Decl., ¶ 5(s).) 
“On June 15, 2022, Ms. Avila
presented to the Los Angeles General Medical Center Emergency Department with
complaints of shortness of breath since the day prior.” (Macer Decl., ¶ 5(t).)
“She was admitted for an exploratory laparotomy, extended right hemicolectomy,
abthera placement, and rigid proctoscopy procedure, which they proceeded with
urgently.” (Macer Decl., ¶ 5(u).) “Post-operatively, Ms. Avila was admitted to
Surgical ICU alert and following commands. Ms. Avila was on levophed and
vasopressors, although her pressor requirements were decreasing with fluid resuscitation.
Her abdomen remained open for takeback to the operating room the following day,
to assure no further ischemia and to examine the integrity of anastomosis.”
(Macer Decl., ¶ 5(v).) Dr. Macer states that “[t]he surgical pathology from
Plaintiff’s June 15, 2022 procedure at Los Angeles General Medical Center
indicates that a 3 cm defect to the patient’s cecum and a 2 cm defect to the
patient’s ascending colon were seen during the urgent exploratory laparotomy.
These locations are unusual locations for an injury to occur from a C-section,
bilateral tube ligation, D&C, or hysterectomy procedure.” (Macer Decl., ¶
10.) 
“In the morning of June 16, 2022, Ms. Avila was
awake and following commands. She was taken to the operating room and underwent
an exploratory laparotomy, small bowel serosal injury repair x 2, blake drain
replacement x 3, delayed closure of abdominal wall procedure, and superficial
wound vac placement.” (Macer Decl., ¶ 5(x).) “Ms. Avila was admitted at Los
Angeles General Medical Center for over a month. While there, she suffered from
septic shock and developed an acute kidney injury. She was discharged on July
23, 2022.” (Macer Decl., ¶ 5(y).)
Dr. Macer
states that “[t]here was no
breach in the standard of care by Dr. Azizzadeh in his role in treating and
caring for Plaintiff Maribel Avila. The standard of care of an assistant
surgeon is to assist the lead surgeon in any way he can with respect to the
procedure being performed – in this case a Caesarian section, bilateral tube
ligation, dilation and curettage, and total abdominal hysterectomy. The
assistant’s role includes helping the surgeon best visualize the operative
field, suctioning to keep the field clear, cutting suture material, and helping
to close the surgical incision, among other responsibilities. There was no
breach in the standard of care by Dr. Azizzadeh in his performance as assistant
surgeon in either of Plaintiff’s procedures on June 8, 2022. Nothing in the
operative reports indicates that Dr. Azizzadeh breached the standard of care as
an assistant surgeon during either procedure on June 8, 2022.” (Macer Decl., ¶
7.) Dr. Macer further states that “[w]ith regard to the second procedure, Dr.
Azizzadeh was a second assist and his involvement would have been minimal.
Based on my review of the materials, Dr. Azizzadeh met the standard of care of
an assistant surgeon in both the C-section and bilateral tubal ligation
procedure and in the D&C and hysterectomy procedure.” (Macer Decl., ¶ 7.)
Dr. Macer also states that
“[i]t is my opinion that, to a reasonable degree of medical probability, there
was no act or omission on Defendant Jonathan Azizzadeh, M.D. [sic] that caused
or contributed to Plaintiffs injuries. Nothing in the medical record reflects
that Dr. Azizzadeh failed to meet his responsibilities as assistant surgeon in
either procedure. There is no evidence that Dr. Azizzadeh caused or contributed
to any of the patient’s injuries in his role as assistant surgeon to her June
8, 2022 procedures.” (Macer Decl., ¶ 9.) 
Based on the foregoing,
the Court finds that Azizzadeh has met his initial burden of demonstrating that
Plaintiff’s cause of action against him for medical negligence is without
merit. In the opposition, Plaintiff asserts
that “there is a triable issue of material fact on the issues of liability and
causation such that Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment should be denied.”
(Opp’n at p. 3:16-18.) 
Plaintiff submits the
Declaration of Howard C Mandel, M.D., a medical doctor currently licensed to
practice medicine in the State of California. (Mandel Decl., ¶ 1.) Dr. Mandel
states that “[o]n June 8, 2022, Maribel Avila underwent the Caesarian Delivery
with Bilateral Tubal Ligation and right Ovarian cystectomy performed by Dr.
Hong with Dr. Azizzadeh assisting. The delivery was reported to have an
estimated blood loss of only 600 cc’s [much less than the average Caesarian
Delivery] and to have been routine and without any complications…” (Mandel
Decl., ¶ 5(b).) “Dr. Lin’s late entry note written at 18:19 states that she was
‘Called by charge nurse regarding postpartum bleeding, came to evaluate the
patient at around 2:30 PM’…Maribel Avila goes into DIC and is transferred back
to the PACU at 15:15 then to the OR where she undergoes an emergency D&C
and then subtotal hysterectomy at 16:48. Dr. Alfred Hong and Dr. Jonathan
Azizzadeh both assist Dr. Lin in this procedure.” (Mandel Decl., ¶ 5(g)-(h).) “Dr.
Azizzadeh testified that he assisted in the surgery until Dr. Hong arrived.”
(Mandel Decl., ¶ 5(j).) 
            Dr.
Mandel states that “Ms. Avila was discharged from Hollywood Presbyterian
Hospital on June 13, 2022,” and that “[u]pon discharge Plaintiff experienced
abdominal pain and swelling, vomiting, difficulty eating and difficulty
ambulating, and lose [sic] of consciousness.” (Mandel Decl., ¶ 5(m)-(n).) “On
June 15, 2022, Plaintiff presented to the emergency department at Los Angeles
County Hospital and was admitted for an exploratory laparotomy. Four injuries
were documented by the surgeons who explored Maribel Avila including a 3 cm
defect to the patient’s cecum, a 2 cm defect to the patient’s ascending colon,
as well as two areas of the small bowel. Plaintiff was hospitalized at Los
Angeles County Hospital until July 23, 2022….Plaintiff was readmitted to White
Memorial Hospital in August 2022 and November 2022 with diagnoses of septic
shock and renal failure.” (Mandel Decl., ¶ 5(o)-(p).) 
            Dr.
Mandel states that “[b]ased upon my knowledge, training, experience, and review
of the relevant materials, it is my opinion, to a reasonable degree of medical
probability, that the care and treatment provided by Dr. Jonathan Azizzadeh to
Plaintiff fell below the standard of care in the community.” (Mandel Decl., ¶
6.) Dr. Mandel states that “[t]here is no evidence that the nurses, Dr. Alfred
Hong, Dr. Jonathan Azizzadeh or Dr. Jamie C. Lin ever instituted a massive
transfusion policy or protocol or standard of care [sic] adequate transfusions
and replacement of clotting factors and platelets that could have avoided the
emergency hysterectomy.” (Mandel Decl., ¶ 6(a).) 
            Dr.
Mandel states that “[t]he evidence demonstrates that Dr. Azizzadeh assisted in
the hysterectomy for approximately thirty-five to forty minutes. During this
time, as an assistant surgeon, Dr. Azizzadeh had the responsibility
intraoperatively to assure that Dr. Lin had proper visualization as well as to
make sure that during dissection and vascular coagulation that the bowel was
not in harm’s way. The fact that there was a ‘3 cm defect to the patient’s
cecum and a 2 cm defect to the patient’s ascending colon’ as well as two areas
of the small bowel that were injured is clear evidence that either there was
poor visualization, careless dissection or vascular coagulation, that resulted
in Ms. Avila’s injuries.” (Mandel Decl., ¶ 6(b).) 
            Dr.
Mandel further states that “it is my opinion that the care and treatment by Dr.
Azzizadeh [sic] was a substantial factor in causing or contributing to Ms.
Avila’s injuries. My opinions are based on the following: (a) Maribel Avila was
critically injured on June 8th 2022, to a medical probability during the
hysterectomy performed by Dr. Jamie C. Lin with Dr. Alfred Hong and Dr.
Jonathan Azizzadeh assisting. To a medical probability in their haste operating
on a patient in shock one or more of these obstetricians caused substandard
iatrogenic injuries which resulted in 4 bowel lacerations, fulminant
peritonitis, her near death, and chronic problems that continue to plague her
today. (b) The failures of both the nurses and Dr. Jamie C. Lin, Dr. Alfred
Hong and Dr. Jonathan Azizzadeh to institute a massive transfusion policy
exaggerated her critical condition. If Maribel Avila had been as required by
the standard of care adequately transfused and had blood products infused, to a
medical probability there would have been significantly better coagulability
and hence less ooze and less leaking from small blood vessels. To a medical
probability the Bovie electrocautery would have been utilized less thereby
decreasing the risk of iatrogenic bowel injury.” (Mandel Decl., ¶ 7.) 
            In
the reply, Azizzadeh asserts that “[t]he declaration of Plaintiff’s expert
contains only conclusory opinions with no reasonable explanation for the basis
of his opinion, and ought to be excluded.” (Reply at p. 6:12-13.) Azizzadeh
cites to Kelley
v. Trunk (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 519, 523, where the Court of Appeal
noted that “[i]n professional malpractice cases, expert opinion testimony is
required to prove or disprove that the defendant performed in accordance with
the prevailing standard of care, except in cases where the negligence is
obvious to laymen.” (Internal citation omitted.) The Kelley Court noted
that “[s]ummary judgment is appropriate in every case where the statutory
standard is met, and the absence of material issues for trial established.
However, that standard is not satisfied by laconic expert declarations which
provide only an ultimate opinion, unsupported by reasoned explanation.” (Id. at pp.
524-525.) However, the Court finds that here, Dr. Mandel’s opinion
is supported by reasoning and explanation. 
Based on the foregoing,
the Court finds that Plaintiff has raised triable issues of material fact as to
whether Azizzadeh breached the standard of care and as to causation. Accordingly,
the Court denies Azizzadeh’s motion for summary judgment. 
            Conclusion

Based on the foregoing, Azizzadeh’s
motion for summary judgment is denied. 
Plaintiff is ordered to
provide notice of this Order. 
 
DATED:  September 5, 2024                         ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 