  Case Number:  23VECV04586    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV04586 HENRICUS  SANDJAYA vs EDUARDO MERANCIO SOLANO  [TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Eduardo Merancio Solano’s Motion to  Transfer Venue to Riverside County is DENIED.   Defendant Eduardo Merancio Solano is ordered to file a responsive  pleading within 20 days.   Introduction  Defendant Eduardo Merancio Solano  (Defendant or Solano) moved to transfer Plaintiff Henricus Sandjaya (Plaintiff  or Sandjaya) to Riverside County.  (Code  Civ. Proc., sec. 395(a) – wrong court.)  Discussion   Solano argued that the action is  filed in the wrong court because the auto accident occurred in Riverside County  and all properly named defendants (i.e., Solano) reside in Riverside  County.  Solano argued that Alfred Howard  Giles (Giles), a Los Angeles County resident, is improperly joined as a party  defendant and argued the lack of merit of the action against Giles (i.e.,  mistakes in the Traffic Collision Report (TCR) and/or ownership of the tractor  and trailer and/or the fallacy of any employer/employee/agency relationship  between the defendants).  Personal injury  actions are transitory and can be filed in either the county where the  defendant resides or in the county where the injury occurred.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 395(a).)  Solano failed to present any statute or legal  authority to support the contention that the Court needs to review the validity  of the claims alleged in order to determine proper venue.  It is undisputed that Giles is a resident of  Los Angeles County and thus venue is proper.    Solano conflated two separate  motions into the instant motion – a motion to transfer and a motion to strike  or dismiss Giles (or even possibly a motion for summary judgment/adjudication).  All the Court need review is the residence of the two defendants and the  location of the accident.   As it stands,  the action is properly venued in Los Angeles due to Giles’ residence.   The motion to transfer is  DENIED.   As to Solano’s request for 30  days to respond, upon the denial of the instant motion Solano has 30 days to  respond unless otherwise ordered by the Court.   (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 396b(e); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1326.)  The Court noted that this action has been  pending since October 13, 2023, and Defendant was sub-served on or about  November 8, 2023.  The instant motion was  filed on December 28, 2023, and thus the action was stayed for approximately  two months.  Solano has had sufficient  time to formulate a response and the request for 30 days to respond is  DENIED.  Defendant is ordered to respond  within 20 days. IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE  NOTICE.