  Case Number:  24TRCV01744    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  E 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest District
Torrance Dept. E




 
CHRISTIAN
  BURGOS,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:


 
24TRCV01744




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  Granted
 




 
The
  CORNER BAR @ 352 LLC, and Does 1 to 50, Inclusive,


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:              November
8, 2024
 
Moving Parties:          Defendant 352 LLC
 
Responding Party:      Plaintiff Christian Burgos
 
HEARING: Demurrer to the Complaint
and Motion to Strike
 
            The Court considered the moving, opposition,
and reply papers.
 
RULING
 
            The
Demurrer to the third cause of action and Motion to Strike punitive damages are
granted with leave to amend.
            
BACKGROUND
 
            On May
22, 2024, Plaintiff Christian Burgos filed the Complaint against Defendant 352
LLC, alleging causes of action for premises
liability, negligence, and intentional tort arising from an alleged altercation
involving employees of Defendant.
            
            On October 7, 2024, Defendant filed
the Demurrer to the Complaint with a Motion to Strike.
 
            On October 28, 2024, Plaintiff filed
oppositions to the Demurrer and the Motion to Strike.
            
On
November 8, 2024, Defendant filed the Reply.
            
            
LEGAL STANDARD
 
            A demurrer can be
used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under
attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint
need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary
fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be
alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 
53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the sufficiency of
the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts
properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th
962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d
695, 713.) 
 
A pleading is uncertain if it is ambiguous or
unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer for
uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders the
complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to
respond to. (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed,
even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can
be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of
California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) 
 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
Before filing a
demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the
purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve
the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) 
 
            Defendant’s Counsel sent an email attempting to meet and
confer with Plaintiff. (Rucci Decl. ¶ 23-24.) Plaintiff’s counsel did not
respond. Therefore, the Court finds that Defendant has satisfied the meet and
confer requirement.
 
Cause
of Action 3 – Intentional Tort
 
            To succeed on a cause of action for intentional tort, the
plaintiff must prove that the defendant's conduct is intentional or
unreasonable, that the defendant should have known the conduct was likely to
result in emotional distress or physical injury, and that causation of
damages in the form of emotional distress or physical injury. (Bowden v.
Spiegel, Inc. (1950) 96 Cal.App.2d 793, 794-795.)
 
            Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s intentional tort claim
fails because there is no indication that Defendant acted with intent to cause
harm, a necessary element for such a claim. The allegations against Defendant
are vague, lacking specifics on how Defendant was involved in the altercation
or any intent by Defendant to harm Plaintiff. (See, Ankeny v. Lockheed
Missiles & Space Co. (1979) 88 Cal.App.3d 531.)
 
Furthermore, even
if Plaintiff’s claim that an employee of Defendant caused the injuries was
sufficient, Plaintiff does not establish that this alleged altercation occurred
within the employee’s job scope. For an employer to be liable under respondeat
superior, the act must be inherent to or a foreseeable risk of the job. The
Complaint lacks any link between the altercation and the employee's duties,
failing to show that such conduct was foreseeable within the employment scope.
(Yamaguchi v. Harnsmut (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 472, 481-482.) Thus,
Defendant contends that Plaintiff’s claim is deficient and asks the court to
sustain the Demurrer due to the lack of specificity and failure to establish
liability for an intentional tort.
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff argues that under the doctrine
of respondeat superior, an employer can be held liable for an employee’s
excessive use of force if the employee acted within the scope of
employment.  Plaintiff contends that
liability does not require the employer's authorization of the wrongful act
itself but rather that the act was part of the employee’s duties. (Haworth
v. Elliott, (1944) 67 Cal. App. 2d 77, 82.) Plaintiff’s Complaint asserts
that Defendant’s employees assaulted him when removing him from the premises,
an action allegedly related to maintaining order in the bar. (Complaint p. 6.)
Plaintiff claims that the employees acted in furtherance of Defendant’s
business objectives, as in Haworth, making Defendant vicariously liable.
(Haworth, supra, 67 Cal. App. 2d 77, 82.)
 
            In reply, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s Complaint
fails to establish foreseeability regarding the alleged actions of Corner Bar
employees during the incident. Defendant asserts that the Complaint lacks any
factual basis indicating prior altercations or awareness of past misconduct by
Corner Bar employees, which could imply foreseeability. Additionally, Defendant
contends that there is no allegation suggesting that Corner Bar either directed
or participated in any intentional act nor does the Complaint present facts
supporting an intentional tort claim against the business itself. 
 
            “The determining factor in ascertaining whether an
employee's act falls within the scope of his employment for respondeat
superior liability is not whether the act was authorized by the employer,
benefited the employer, or was performed specifically for the purpose of
fulfilling the employee's job responsibilities.” (Yamaguchi, supra, 106
Cal.App.4th 472, 482.) Instead, “the question is whether the risk of such an
act is typical of or broadly incidental to the employer's enterprise.” (Id.)
 
            In the Complaint, Plaintiff pleads that he was a Patron
at the Corner Bar and two of defendant’s male employees approached him and told
him he needed to leave because he was making other patrons uncomfortable.
Plaintiff sought clarification but was punched in the face by the employees,
who then dragged him out of the bar while beating him. While Plaintiff argues
that the actions taken by Defendant’s employees were in furtherance of
maintaining order in the bar, the Complaint does not plead any facts showing
this. Thus, because the Complaint fails to allege facts showing that
Defendant’s employee actions were typical for their position at Defendants bar,
the Court sustains the Demurrer with leave to amend. (See, Yamaguchi, supra,
106 Cal.App.4th 472, 482.)
 
            
Motion
to Strike
 
California law
authorizes a party’s motion to strike a matter from an opposing party’s
pleading if it is irrelevant, false, or improper.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 435; 436 subd. (a).)  Motions may also
target pleadings or parts of pleadings that are not filed or drawn in
conformity with applicable laws, rules, or orders.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436 subd. (b).) A motion to strike is used to
address defects that appear on the face of a pleading or from a judicially
noticed matter but that are not grounds for a demurrer.  (Pierson v
Sharp Memorial Hospital (1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 340, 342; see also City
& County of San Francisco v Strahlendorf (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1911,
1913 (motion may not be based on a party's declaration or factual
representations made by counsel in the motion papers).)  In particular, a
motion to strike can be used to attack the entire pleading or any part thereof
– in other words, a motion may target single words or phrases, unlike
demurrers.  (Warren v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Railway Co.
(1971) 19 Cal.App.3d 24, 40.)  California’s policy of liberal construction
applies to motions to strike.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 452; see also Duffy v. Campbell (1967)
250 Cal.App.2d 662, 666 (noting that courts must resolve all reasonable doubts
in favor of the pleading when considering a motion to strike).)  The Code
of Civil Procedure also authorizes the Court to act on its own initiative to
strike matters, empowering the Court to enter orders striking matter “at any
time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) 
 
“In
order to survive a motion to strike an allegation of punitive damages, the
ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief must be pled by a
plaintiff.” (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253,
1255.) A request for punitive damages may be made pursuant to Civil Code section 3294
subdivision (a), which provides that “[i]n an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” (Civil Code
§ 3294 subd. (a).)
 
Under
the statute, malice is defined as “conduct which is intended by the defendant
to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by
the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others,” and oppression is defined as “despicable conduct that subjects a
person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s
rights.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 3294(c)(1), (c)(2).) Although not defined by the
statute, despicable conduct refers to circumstances that are base, vile, or
contemptible. (College Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th
704, 725.) Also, “[u]nder the statute, malice does not require actual intent to
harm…Conscious disregard for the safety of another may be sufficient where the
defendant is aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his or her conduct
and he or she willfully fails to avoid such consequences…. [Citation.]” (Pfeifer
v. John Crane, Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 1270, 1299.)
 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s Complaint lacks specific facts to justify an award of
punitive damages. Plaintiff only broadly claims that the individuals involved
were employees and/or agents and provides no details showing that Defendant
knew of the alleged assailants' unfitness, disregarded others' safety, or
authorized their actions. (See, Civil Code § 3294 subd. (b). Instead, the Complaint
relies on conclusory statements about the employees’ actions being malicious
and oppressive. For punitive damages, there must be aggravating factors like
malice or a willful disregard for others' interests, but such specifics are
absent here. (See Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal. 3rd 890, 894.)
Thus, Defendant asserts that the Complaint does not meet legal pleading
standards for punitive damages.
 
            Plaintiff
argues that the Complaint adequately supports a claim for punitive damages by
detailing the violent actions of Defendant’s employees, which demonstrate
malice and oppression. (Complaint p. 6.) Plaintiff describes being physically
assaulted by two male employees, who beat and dragged him from inside the bar
to the sidewalk, causing injuries. (Complaint p. 6.) Though Plaintiff does not
know the employees' identities, he believes one may be the bar’s owner, based
on information from the bar’s website. Plaintiff contends that discovery will
confirm the individuals' roles and establish that they acted with willful
disregard for Plaintiff’s safety, thereby justifying punitive damages.
 
            In
reply, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s Complaint lacks the factual basis
required to support a claim for punitive damages, as it contains only
conclusory allegations without competent evidence. For punitive damages, a
plaintiff must demonstrate that the business entity, Corner Bar, engaged in
"despicable conduct" with willful disregard for others' rights or
safety. Defendant contends that Plaintiff’s claims do not meet this standard,
as mere negligence does not justify punitive damages. Additionally, for a
business to be liable for an employee's actions, there must be evidence that it
knowingly hired an unfit employee, authorized wrongful acts, or acted with
malice. Defendant asserts that no such evidence exists, nor is there any indication
that Corner Bar ratified or intentionally participated in the alleged conduct. 
 
            While
the Complaint pleads facts that show malicious and oppressive actions taken by
Defendant’s employees, such as punching and kicking Plaintiff, as seen above,
Plaintiff has not pleaded facts showing that Defendant authorized or knew of
the malicious acts taken by Defendant’s employees. (Civ. Code § 3294(b).) In
the Opposition, Plaintiff states that he believes one of the men who assaulted
him may have been the owner of the bar, which could show ratification. However,
this fact is not pleaded in the Complaint. 
 
            Therefore,
the Court grants the Motion to Strike punitive damages with leave to amend.