 Case Number:  24STLC01931    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  26  Estrada
v. Fan Shin Investment, LLC, et al.DEMURRER(CCP § 430.10, et seq.)
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant Fan Shin Investment, LLC’s Demurrer to the First
Amended Complaint is OVERRULED. DEFENDANT IS TO FILE AND SERVE AN ANSWER TO THE
FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.
 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
On March 19, 2024, Plaintiff Jose Estrada (“Plaintiff”) filed the Complaint in this action against
Defendant Fan Shin Investment, LLC (“Defendant”). Following the filing of
Defendant’s demurrer to the Complaint, Plaintiff filed the First Amended
Complaint on June 27, 2024. 
 
Defendant
filed the instant Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint
on July 25, 2024. Plaintiff filed an opposition on August 12, 2024 and
Defendant replied on September 25, 2024.
 
Discussion

 
The First Amended Complaint alleges a single cause of action
for Violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act (Civil Code section 51). Plaintiff
alleges that at all relevant times he has been unable to walk and is confined
to a wheelchair. (FAC, ¶2.) Defendant has been the owner or lessor of the real
property located at 7380 Stewart and Gray Road, Downey, California, which is occupied
by a restaurant. (Id. at ¶¶3-4.) On January 25, 2024, Plaintiff
purchased food from the restaurant. (Id. at ¶5.) Plaintiff tried but was
unable to eat at the restaurant because its built-in outdoor dining surfaces
were not wheelchair accessible because their tops were more than 34 inches off
the ground. (Ibid.) Removing the architectural barrier by providing a
wheelchair accessible dining surface is readily achievable. (Id. at ¶6.)
By violating 42 USC § 12182 and 28 CFR §§ 36.201 and 36.304, Defendants
violated Civil Code section 51. (Id. at ¶7.) Plaintiff is a
high-frequency litigant. (Id. at ¶8.) Plaintiff was in the geographic
area of the restaurant to visit a friend and patronized the restaurant to get
something to eat. (Ibid.) 
 
Defendant demurs to the First
Amended Complaint for failure to allege facts sufficient to state a cause of
action. (Citing Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) The demurrer is
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration as required by Code of Civil
Procedure section 430.41. (Motion, Sahelian Decl., ¶¶2-3.) 
 
The Demurrer is brought pursuant to the pleading
requirements set forth at Code of Civil Procedure section 425.50, which require
an allegation of construction-related accessibility to provide:
 
(1) A plain language explanation of the
specific access barrier or barriers the individual encountered, or by which the
individual alleges he or she was deterred, with sufficient information about
the location of the alleged barrier to enable a reasonable person to identify
the access barrier.
 
(2) The way in which the barrier denied
the individual full and equal use or access, or in which it deterred the
individual, on each particular occasion.
 
(3) The date or dates of each
particular occasion on which the claimant encountered the specific access
barrier, or on which he or she was deterred.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 425.50, subd. (a).) 
 
The alleged barrier experienced by Plaintiff was that the
outdoor dining surface was not wheelchair accessible because the tops were more
than 34 inches off the ground. This sufficiently explains the specific access
barrier Plaintiff allegedly encountered. The First Amended Complaint also
alleges the way in which this particular barrier denied Plaintiff full and
equal use or access was that he would not eat at the restaurant. These
allegations are sufficient to meet the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure
section 425.50, subdivision (a)(1) and (2). Plaintiff also alleges that this
encounter occurred on January 25, 2024, which satisfies subdivision (3) of the
statute. The demurrer fails to acknowledge the allegations that Plaintiff
purchased food at the restaurant, the specific height of the built-in outdoor
dining surfaces, and that Plaintiff could not eat at the restaurant as a
result. 
 
To the extent Defendant argues in the demurrer that
Plaintiff must allege more details, no authority is cited in support. None of
the cases to which Defendant cites are analogous to this action. In Whitaker
v. Panama Joes Investors LLC (9th Cir. 2021) 840 Fed.Appx. 961,
the complaint was inadequate because it “did not allege
facts identifying the specific deficiencies in the dining surfaces that
prevented Whitaker from fully accessing the restaurant. Nor did it describe how
the restrooms were inaccessible or which paths of travel in the patio area were
inaccessible.” (Whitaker v. Panama Joes Investors LLC (9th Cir. 2021)
840 Fed.Appx. 961, 964.) As discussed above, Plaintiff has specified the
barrier he encountered and the way in which it denied him full and equal
access. The other two cases mentioned by Defendant likewise only contained
allegations that certain features were not accessible without explaining how. (Whitaker
v. Body, Art and Soul Tattoos Los Angeles, LLC (9th Cir. 2021) 840
Fed.Appx. 959, 960; Whitaker v. Tesla Motors, Inc. (9th Cir. 2021) 985
F.3d 1173, 1177.) 
 
Finally, Defendant argues that Plaintiff has not
sufficiently alleged standing to assert a claim under the Unruh Act. According
to the demurrer, standing under the Unruh Act requires that a disabled
plaintiff show they presented themselves to a business with the intent to use
its services and were denied equal access on a particular occasion (Citing Reycraft
v. Lee (2009) 177 Cal. App. 4th 1211.) Reyes, however, addressed
standing under the Disabled Persons Act, not the Unruh Act. (Id. at
1215.) In any event, the First Amended Complaint does satisfy this standard by
alleging that Plaintiff was in the geographic area of the restaurant to visit a
friend, went to the restaurant to purchase food, and was denied access by the
non-compliant outdoor seating. Defendant’s contention that the allegation
Plaintiff was visiting a friend lacks credibility is not a matter for the Court
to consider on demurrer. Based on the foregoing, the demurrer to the First
Amended Complaint is overruled.
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant Fan Shin Investment, LLC’s Demurrer to the First
Amended Complaint is OVERRULED. DEFENDANT IS TO FILE AND SERVE AN ANSWER TO THE
FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.
 
 
Court clerk to give notice. 