 Case Number:  23STCV08396    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION FOR PREFERENCEOn April 14, 2023,
Plaintiffs Kathleen Hiland and John Brockett filed this action for personal
injury caused by asbestos exposure.  On September
20, 2023, Plaintiffs moved for trial preference under Code of Civil Procedure
sections 36, subdivision (d).
The court has
discretion to grant a motion for trial preference accompanied by clear and
convincing medical documentation concluding that one of the parties suffers
from an illness or condition raising substantial medical doubt of survival of
that party beyond six months and satisfying the court that the interests of
justice will be served by granting the preference.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (d).)  
“Upon the granting of
such a motion for preference, the court shall set the matter for trial not more
than 120 days from that date and there shall be no continuance beyond 120 days
from the granting of the motion for preference except for physical disability
of a party or a party’s attorney, or upon a showing of good cause stated in the
record.”  (Id., § 36, subd. (f).)  “Any continuance shall be for no more than 15
days and no more than one continuance for physical disability may be granted to
any party.”  (Id.)
Plaintiffs submitted
evidence that Hiland has stage IV epithelioid mesothelioma.  (Niu Decl., ¶¶ 4, 8.)  Dr. Jiaxin Niu reviewed Hiland’s medical
record and personally observed and examined Hiland in conjunction with her
mesothelioma and potential treatment options as her treating oncologist.  (Id. at ¶¶ 4-5.)  Hiland received chemotherapy treatment from
July 2022 to September 2022 and thereafter started immunotherapy.  (Id. at ¶¶ 9-10.)  Radiology studies from January 2023 and March
of 2023 show an increase in Hiland’s nodules.  (Id. at ¶10.)  A July 2023 radiology study shows that the
cancer has significantly worsened and has not responded to additional
treatment.  (Ibid.)  Hiland experiences fatigue and mild abdominal
pain, which Dr. Niu declares will get worse over time.  (Id. at ¶ 12.)  Hiland is currently undergoing a third
immunotherapy on a clinical trial, but it is not expected to cure her
mesothelioma.  (Id. at ¶ 13.)  Dr. Niu concluded Hiland’s health will continue
to decline, and there is substantial medical doubt as to Hiland's ability to
survive beyond six months.  (Niu Decl., ¶
15.)
Defendants Hyster-Yale
Group and Pneumo Abex argue that Plaintiffs’ moving papers do not provide any
medical documentation supporting the prognosis that Hiland is unlikely to live
more than six months.  (Ibid.)  However, Dr. Jiaxin Niu’s declaration provides
sufficient details about her medical records, recent condition, and prognosis.  (Niu Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.)  
Based on the foregoing,
the Court finds there is sufficient evidence to meet the clear and convincing
standard for granting this motion. The Court further finds that the interests
of justice will be served upon the granting of preference in this case as this
would allow Hiland to pursue her case while she is still able to.
The motion is
GRANTED.  The trial is set for January
16, 2024 at 9 a.m.  The final status
conference is January 2, 2024 at 9 a.m. 
The parties are to meet and confer on a trial setting order.  A status conference on a trial setting order
is set for September 28, 20023 at 9 a.m.
The moving party is to
give notice.