 Case Number:  22STCV22651    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION TO QUASH (PTI)             Plaintiff  Marquee Routh alleges Mark Routh was injured as a result of asbestos exposure  from Defendant PTI Union, LLC’s products.   Defendant filed a motion to quash service of summons for lack of  personal jurisdiction. A defendant may move to quash  service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or  her.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd. (a)(1).)  The court may dismiss without prejudice the complaint  in whole, or as to that defendant, when dismissal is made pursuant to Section 418.10.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 581, subd. (h).)   “A court of this state may  exercise jurisdiction on any basis not inconsistent with the Constitution of this  state or of the United States.”  (Code Civ.  Proc., § 410.10.)  “The Due Process Clause  protects an individual’s liberty interest in not being subject to the binding judgments  of a forum with which he has established no meaningful ‘contacts, ties, or relations.’”  (Burger  King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462, 471-472.)  A state court may not exercise personal jurisdiction  over a party under circumstances that would offend “traditional notions of fair  play and substantial justice.”  (Asahi Metal Industry Co., Ltd., v. Superior Court  of California, Solano County (1987) 480 U.S. 102, 113.)   When a defendant moves to  quash service of process on jurisdictional grounds, the plaintiff has the initial  burden of demonstrating facts justifying the exercise of jurisdiction.  (Jayone  Foods, Inc. v. Aekyung Industrial Co. Ltd. (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 543, 553.)  Once facts showing minimum contacts with the forum  state are established, the defendant has the burden to demonstrate that the exercise  of jurisdiction would be unreasonable.  (Ibid.)   “The plaintiff must provide specific evidentiary facts, through affidavits  and other authenticated documents, sufficient to allow the court to independently  conclude whether jurisdiction is appropriate.   [Citation.]  The plaintiff cannot rely  on allegations in an unverified complaint or vague and conclusory assertions of  ultimate facts.  [Citation.]”  (Strasner  v. Touchstone Wireless Repair & Logistics, LP (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 215,  222.) A defendant is subject to  a state’s general jurisdiction if its contacts “are so continuance and  systematic as to render [it] essentially at home in the forum State.”  (Daimler AG v. Bauman (2014) 571 U.S.  117, 127.)  A nonresident defendant may be  subject to the specific jurisdiction of the forum “if the defendant has purposefully  availed himself or herself of forum benefits [citation], and the ‘controversy is  related to or “arises out of” a defendant’s contacts with the forum.’  [Citations.]”   (Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods,  Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 446.)   This test does not require a “causal relationship between the  defendant’s in-state activity and the litigation.”  (Ford Motor Co. v. Montana Eighth Judicial  District Court (2021) 141 S.Ct. 1017, 1026.)  The “arise out” of standard “asks about  causation,” but “relate to” does not.  (Ibid.)  “[W]hen a corporation has ‘continuously and  deliberately exploited [a State’s] market, it must reasonably anticipate being  haled into [that State’s] court[s]’ to defend actions ‘based on’ products  causing injury there.”  (Id. at p.  1027.)   Defendant states there is  no general jurisdiction over it because it is a Delaware company located in  Missouri.  (Motion at p. 4.)  Defendant further argues Plaintiff cannot  prove specific jurisdiction because Defendant blended talcum products in  Missouri for customers, those customers directed the shipment of their  products, and Defendant had no role in the release, distribution, sale, or  marketing of those products.  (Motion at  p. 8.)  Apart from a vague conclusory  declaration making these broad statements, Defendant submitted no evidence of  these assertions.  For example, Defendant  does not explain how the customer controls and directs the shipment of the  products or whether the customer directs Defendant to ship the products to  customers or users in California.   (Brasher Decl., ¶¶ 6, 7.) Plaintiff argues that  Defendant placed the product in the stream of commerce.  (Opposition at p. 5.)  “In the products liability context, merely  placing a product into the stream of commerce, even with knowledge that the  product might enter the forum state, is not a sufficient basis for personal  jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant.   [Citations.]  On the other hand,  ‘if the sale of a product of a manufacturer or distributor . . . is not simply  an isolated occurrence, but arises from the efforts of the manufacturer or  distributor to serve, directly or indirectly, the market for its product in  other States, it is not unreasonable to subject it to suit in one of those  State if its allegedly defective merchandise has there been the source of  injury to its owner or to others.’   [Citation.]”  (Jayone, supra,  31 Cal.App.5th at pp. 558-559.)  “[T]he indirect  placement of products into the stream of commerce does not necessarily insulate  a foreign manufacturer from the jurisdiction of California courts.  Even an indirect effort to serve a California  market for a manufacturer's product may reasonably make that manufacturer  subject to suit in California if its product has caused injury.”  (In re Automobile Antitrust Cases I &  II (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 100, 115.)   “A nonresident defendant's indirect sales through its California  distributors constitutes economic activity in California as a matter of  commercial actuality when the defendant earned substantial gross income from  that activity.”  (Id. at p.  116.)   Mark Routh allegedly used  Gold Bond powder from the 1990s into the 2000s.   (Opposition at p. 2.)  Plaintiff  cites evidence that Defendant provided manufacturing and packaging of Gold Bond  powder products from 1996 through 2014.   (Opposition at p. 4.)  Defendant  argues that Chattem, not Defendant placed Gold Bond on the market.  (Reply at p. 3.) Plaintiff has the right  to discover whether Defendant’s manufacturing and packaging of Gold Bold  products for customers who directed the products to be shipped to California  was more than an isolated occurrence and arose from Defendant’s purposeful efforts  to market its products in California.   The request for discovery on issues of specific jurisdiction regarding  Defendant’s efforts to serve the market for Gold Bond powders in California during  the time Routh used the product is granted.   The hearing on the motion is CONTINUED to December 20, 2023 at 9 a.m.  Plaintiff may file a supplemental opposition  brief and Defendant may file a supplemental reply brief on regular notice. The moving party is to  give notice.[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTIONS TO QUASH (VANDERBILT
MINERAL)            Plaintiff
Marquee Routh alleges Mark Routh developed mesothelioma as a result of exposure
to asbestos in talc supplied by Defendant Vanderbilt Minerals, LLC, Inc.  Defendant filed a motion to quash service of
summons for lack of personal jurisdiction.  
A defendant may move to quash
service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd. (a)(1).)  The court may dismiss without prejudice the complaint
in whole, or as to that defendant, when dismissal is made pursuant to Section 418.10.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 581, subd. (h).)  “A court of this state may
exercise jurisdiction on any basis not inconsistent with the Constitution of this
state or of the United States.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 410.10.)  “The Due Process Clause
protects an individual’s liberty interest in not being subject to the binding judgments
of a forum with which he has established no meaningful ‘contacts, ties, or relations.’”  (Burger
King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462, 471-472.)  A state court may not exercise personal jurisdiction
over a party under circumstances that would offend “traditional notions of fair
play and substantial justice.”  (Asahi Metal Industry Co., Ltd., v. Superior Court
of California, Solano County (1987) 480 U.S. 102, 113.)  When a defendant moves to
quash service of process on jurisdictional grounds, the plaintiff has the initial
burden of demonstrating facts justifying the exercise of jurisdiction.  (Jayone
Foods, Inc. v. Aekyung Industrial Co. Ltd. (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 543, 553.)  Once facts showing minimum contacts with the forum
state are established, the defendant has the burden to demonstrate that the exercise
of jurisdiction would be unreasonable.  (Ibid.) 
“The plaintiff must provide specific evidentiary facts, through affidavits
and other authenticated documents, sufficient to allow the court to independently
conclude whether jurisdiction is appropriate. 
[Citation.]  The plaintiff cannot rely
on allegations in an unverified complaint or vague and conclusory assertions of
ultimate facts.  [Citation.]”  (Strasner
v. Touchstone Wireless Repair & Logistics, LP (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 215,
222.)A defendant is subject to
a state’s general jurisdiction if its contacts “are so continuance and
systematic as to render [it] essentially at home in the forum State.”  (Daimler AG v. Bauman (2014) 571 U.S.
117, 127.)  A nonresident defendant may be
subject to the specific jurisdiction of the forum “if the defendant has purposefully
availed himself or herself of forum benefits [citation], and the ‘controversy is
related to or “arises out of” a defendant’s contacts with the forum.’  [Citations.]” 
(Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods,
Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 446.)  This
test does not require a “causal relationship between the defendant’s in-state
activity and the litigation.”  (Ford
Motor Co. v. Montana Eighth Judicial District Court (2021) 141 S.Ct. 1017,
1026.)  The “arise out” of standard “asks
about causation,” but “relate to” does not. 
(Ibid.)  “[W]hen a
corporation has ‘continuously and deliberately exploited [a State’s] market, it
must reasonably anticipate being haled into [that State’s] court[s]’ to defend
actions ‘based on’ products causing injury there.”  (Id. at p. 1027.)  Vanderbilt Minerals, LLC provided
evidence that it is incorporated in Delaware and has its principal place of
business in Connecticut (Stewart Decl., ¶ 2), and therefore it is not a
resident of California and not subject to its general jurisdiction.  Defendant argues it is
not subject to California’s specific jurisdiction unless Plaintiff can prove Plaintiff
was exposed in California to asbestos in a product that contained Defendant’s
talc.  (Motion at p. 4.)  Defendant argues the complaint does not
allege the specific products at issue.  (Ibid.)    Defendant is correct that
the complaint provides no information about the specific products at issue.  Only in the opposition does Plaintiff
identify the products –DAP caulk products. 
(Opposition at p. 1.)  Plaintiff
argues Defendant assumed the liability of R.T. Vanderbilt Company, which had a
talc mine and sales office in California. 
(Opposition at p. 3; Eyerly Decl., Ex. 5 at pp. 39-40; Ex. 8 at p. 1430.)  According to Plaintiff, the talc contained
asbestos.  R.T. Vanderbilt Company
supplied talc to DAP.  (Eyerly Decl., Ex.
10 at pp. 162-163.)In its reply, Defendant
acknowledges it mined and sold talc in California.  (Reply at p. 2.)  Thus, it availed itself of the benefits of
the forum.  However, Defendant contends
Plaintiff has no evidence that Defendant’s talc was in the DAP caulk products to
which Routh was exposed.  (Reply at p.5.)Plaintiff requests
jurisdictional discovery to obtain evidence that Defendant’s talc was in the
DAP caulk products to which Routh was exposed. 
The court CONTINUES this motion to December 20, 2023 at 9 a.m. for
jurisdictional discovery on whether Defendant’s talc was in the DAP caulk
products to which Routh was exposed. 
Plaintiff may file a supplemental opposition and Defendant may file a
supplemental reply on regular notice.The moving party is to
give notice.























 