 Case Number:  22STCV11362    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT (JAGUAR)
            Defendant
Jaguar Land Rover North America, LLC moves for summary judgment, and in the
alternative summary adjudication, of Plaintiffs’ claims that Thanh M. Nguyen
was exposed to asbestos from Defendant’s parts.
A defendant seeking summary judgment
must “conclusively negate[] a necessary element of the plaintiff’s case, or . .
. demonstrate[] that under no hypothesis is there a material issue of fact that
requires the process of trial.”  (Guz
v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 334.)  To show that a plaintiff cannot establish an
element of a cause of action, a defendant must make the initial showing “that
the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed
evidence.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield
Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.) 
“The defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively
negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of action.  The defendant may also present evidence that
the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence –
as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the
effect that he has discovered nothing.” 
(Id. at p. 855.)  A
plaintiff’s deposition testimony that the plaintiff has no knowledge of any
exposure to the defendant’s products may be sufficient to shift the burden to
the plaintiff to demonstrate the existence of triable issues of fact.  (McGonnell v. Kaiser Gypsum Co., Inc.
(2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 1098, 1103-1104.) 
The plaintiff’s deposition testimony that he did not recall ever working
with a product manufactured by the defendant may not be sufficient to shift the
burden if the plaintiff is able to prove his case by another means.  (Weber v. John Crane, Inc. (2006) 143
Cal.App.4th 1433, 1439.)  “‘If plaintiffs
respond to comprehensive interrogatories seeking all known facts with
boilerplate answers that restate their allegations, or simply provide laundry
lists of people and/or documents, the burden of production will almost
certainly be shifted to them once defendants move for summary judgment and
properly present plaintiff’s factually devoid discovery responses.’”  (Id. at p. 1440.) 
A.        Summary
Judgment
            Defendant
argues Plaintiffs have no evidence to support their allegations of Nguyen’s exposure
WHILE working on a 1986 Jaguar and a 1972 Jaguar.  (Motion at p. 10; Ex. P at p. 2.)  Nguyen claims he removed and replaced
original gaskets on both cars.  (Ibid.)  Nguyen testified he bought the 1986 Jaguar in
about 2000 with about 130,000 miles on it and he rebuilt the engine including
replacing gaskets.  (Ex. R at pp. 174-177.)  He does not know who manufactured the gaskets
that he replaced.  (Id. at p.
179.)  He bought the 1972 Jaguar in about
2001 or 2002 and does not know the maintenance history or the number of miles
because the odometer had turned over.  (Id.
at pp. 184-186.)  He did brake work on
the car and could tell the original brakes were on the car because they had a
Jaguar label.  (Id. at pp. 187,
188.)  He also rebuilt the engine including
replacing gaskets but does not remember the manufacturer of the old gaskets.  (Id. at pp. 190-191.)
            Defendant
also cites evidence that Jaguar brakes were asbestos free by 1983 and gaskets
were asbestos-free in 1987.  (Motion at
p. 12.)  
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiffs’ discovery responses show they have no evidence that
Nguyen removed asbestos-containing gaskets or original gaskets from the two
Jaguars.  (Motion at p. 15.)  However, as cited above, Nguyen testified he
did brake work on the 1972 Jaguar and the vehicle had the original brakes on
it.  Whether that testimony is credible cannot
be decided on a motion for summary judgment. 
In sum, Plaintiffs’ discovery responses are not factually-devoid, and
Defendant did not shift the burden.
            Defendant
also argues it is not the successor-in-interest holding liability for
Plaintiffs’ claims.  (Motion at p.
9.)  Plaintiffs contend Defendant failed
to provide a deponent on successor issues, and ask for the motion to be denied
on that ground.  (Opposition at p. 4.)  
            Defendant
filed evidence of various transactions and name changes of Jaguar
entities.  But that evidence does not
support Defendant’s assertions, such as the contention that Defendant “was
formed to be responsible for sales and distribution of Jaguar products in North
America.  It was not, however,
responsible for the design or manufacture of any Jaguar vehicles.”  (Undisputed Material Fact (“UMF”) 8.)  The evidence cited for UMF 8 is merely a certificate
of a change of name that does not say anything about the entities responsible for
design, manufacturing, sales or distribution. 
Also because Defendant did not attach the various agreements underlying
the transactions, Defendant has not shown which entities assumed assets or
liabilities via the transactions and that Defendant did not assume any
liabilities.  The attached certificates, articles
of incorporation, and annual reports do not contain that information.
            Defendant
did not conclusively establish that it has no liability as a successor-in-interest,
and therefore did not shift the burden. 
The motion for summary judgment is denied.
B.        Summary
Adjudication of Third Cause of Action 
Defendant moves for summary adjudication of the third cause
of action for false representation under Restatement of Torts Section
402-B.  Section 402-B establishes
“liability for injuries caused by justifiable reliance on false
advertising.”  (Westlye v. Look
Sports, Inc. (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th 1715, 1750.)  Under this section “ ‘[o]ne engaged in the
business of selling chattels who, by advertising, labels, or otherwise, makes
to the public a misrepresentation of a material fact concerning the character
or quality of a chattel sold by him is subject to liability for physical harm
to a consumer of the chattel caused by justifiable reliance upon the
misrepresentation, even though [¶] (a) it is not made fraudulently or
negligently, and [¶] (b) the consumer has not bought the chattel from or
entered into any contractual relation with the seller.’  [Citation.]” 
(Id. at pp. 1750-1751.) 
“The rule ‘is one of strict liability for physical harm to the consumer,
resulting from a misrepresentation of the character or quality of the chattel
sold, even though the misrepresentation is an innocent one, and not made
fraudulently or negligently.’ 
[Citation.]”  (Hauter v.
Zogarts (1975) 14 Cal.3d 104, 114.)  
            Defendant
argues there is no evidence it made any misrepresentation.  (Motion at p. 16.)  Defendant cites Plaintiffs’ responses to a
Special Interrogatory asking for all facts supporting the claims for false
representations.  (Ex. P at p. 6.)  Plaintiffs responded that Nguyen worked on
the 1986 and 1972 Jaguars, removed brakes and gaskets, purchased new parts, and
does not remember warnings, and Defendant’s products were defectively designed.  (Ex. P at pp. 2-4, 7.)  The interrogatory response does not mention
any false representation.  It is
factually-devoid, and Defendant shifted the burden.
            In
opposition, Plaintiffs do not mention this cause of action and do not identify
any evidence of any false representation. 
Thus, they did not show a disputed issue.  The motion for summary adjudication is granted.
C.        Summary
Adjudication of Fourth Cause of Action 
            Defendant moves for summary
adjudication of the fourth cause of action for concealment and failure to warn.  This cause of action alleges in very vague
terms that Defendant violated sections 1708 through 1710 of the Civil Code by
not including warning labels, suppressing the contents of the Lanza Report,
suppressing information from the Asbestos Textile Institute Industrial Hygiene
Foundation and other industry organizations, not giving adequate information to
Nguyen’s doctors, and failing to file a First Report of Occupational Injury or
Illness.  (Complaint, ¶ 42.)  (Some of those sections are irrelevant, such
as sections 1708.5 through 1708.9, which address sexual battery, stalking,
domestic violence, invasion of privacy, sexting, and entering schools.  Plaintiffs have no basis for alleging
Defendant violated those sections in this asbestos case.)
“ ‘[T]he elements of a
cause of action for fraud based on concealment are “ ‘(1) the defendant must
have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been
under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have
intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the
plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and
(5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff
must have sustained damage.’ ” 
[Citation.]’ ”  (Bigler-Engler
v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 310-311.)  When a fiduciary duty does not exist, a duty
to disclose arises only “when the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material
facts not known to the plaintiff,” or “when the defendant actively conceals a
material fact from the plaintiff,” or “when the defendant makes partial
representations but also suppresses some material facts.”  (Id. at p. 311.)  This type of relationship “ ‘can only come
into being as a result of some sort of transaction between the parties’ ” and
“must necessarily arise from direct dealings between the plaintiff and the
defendant; it cannot arise between the defendant and the public at large.”  (Ibid.)  Evidence that the defendant was involved in
retail sales of the disputed product to consumers and profited from them can
satisfy the Bigler requirement.  (Bader
v. Johnson & Johnson (2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 1094, 1132.)  
            Defendant
cites Plaintiffs’ responses to Special Interrogatory No. 9 to support the
assertion that Plaintiffs have no evidence supporting this cause of action.  (UMF 18.) 
However that interrogatory did not ask Plaintiffs for all facts
supporting the fourth cause of action or for all facts supporting the concealment/failure
to warn cause of action.  (Ex. P at p. 6.)  It asked for “all facts that support your claim
for false representation.”  (Ibid.)  The false representation cause of action is
the third cause of action.  Defendant also
cites a request asking for all documents relating to Plaintiffs’
allegations.  (UMF 18.)  But the evidence of concealment and failure
to warn does not need to be in writing, and the response to that request for
documents does not preclude non-documentary evidence about concealment and
failure to warn.
            Defendant
failed to show factually-devoid answers because it did not propound discovery
targeted at the fourth cause of action.  
The motion is denied.
D.        Summary
Adjudication of Punitive Damages 
            Defendant moves for summary
adjudication of the punitive damages claim. 
(Motion at p. 16.)  When the
motion targets a request for punitive damages, a higher standard of proof is at
play.  “Although the clear and convincing
evidentiary standard is a stringent one, ‘it does not impose on a plaintiff the
obligation to “prove” a case for punitive damages at summary judgment [or
summary adjudication.’  [Citations.]  Even so, ‘where the plaintiff’s ultimate
burden of proof will be by clear and convincing evidence, the higher standard
of proof must be taken into account in ruling on a motion for summary judgment
or summary adjudication, since if a plaintiff is to prevail on a claim for
punitive damages, it will be necessary that the evidence presented meet the
higher evidentiary standard.’ 
[Citation.]”  (Butte Fire Cases
(2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1158-1159.) 
“Summary judgment or summary adjudication ‘ “ ‘on the issue of punitive
damages is proper’ only ‘when no reasonable jury could find the plaintiff’s
evidence to be clear and convincing proof of malice, fraud or oppression.’ ”
’.  [Citation.]”  (Id. at p. 1159.)
For a corporate
defendant, the oppression, fraud or malice “must be on the part of an officer,
director, or managing agent of the corporation.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (b).)  That requirement can be satisfied “ ‘if the
evidence permits a clear and convincing inference that within the corporate
hierarchy authorized persons acted despicably in “willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” ’ 
[Citation.]”  (Morgan v. J-M
Manufacturing Company, Inc. (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 1078, 1090.)  A plaintiff also “can satisfy the ‘managing
agent’ requirement ‘through evidence showing the information in the possession
of the corporation and the structure of management decisionmaking that permits
an inference that the information in fact moved upward to a point where
corporate policy was formulated.’ 
[Citation.]”  (Id. at p.
1091.)
“ ‘[I]ntentionally marketing a defective product
knowing that it might cause injury and death is ‘highly reprehensible.’  [Citation.]” 
(Bankhead v. ArvinMeritor, Inc. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 68,
85.)  Punitive damages may be available
when a defendant knows the dangers of asbestos, took action to protect its own
employees, knew that its products were likely to pose a danger to users, and
did not warn them.  (Pfeifer v. John
Crane, Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 1270, 1300.)  Such evidence “was sufficient to show malice,
that is, despicable conduct coupled with conscious disregard for the safety of
others.”  (Id. at pp.
1300-1301.)   
Defendant cites Plaintiffs’ responses to Special
Interrogatory No. 10, asking for all facts supporting the claim for punitive
damages.  (UMF 21; Ex. P at p. 7.)  Plaintiffs responded that the hazards of
asbestos was known in the industry by the 1970s, yet Defendant continued to
distribute asbestos-containing products without adequate warnings “to consumers
like Plaintiff, who was not exposed to Jaguar’s asbestos-containing products
until over two decades after the OSHA regulations came out in the early 1970s.”  (Ex. P at p. 7.)  The interrogatory response does not cite any
evidence supporting this assertion, or that Defendant was continuing to distribute
asbestos-containing parts at the time of Nguyen’s exposure in 2000 through 2002.  The response is factually-devoid, and
Defendant has shifted the burden.  
In opposition, Plaintiffs
do not mention punitive damages and do not identify any evidence supporting the
assertion that Defendant continued to distribute asbestos-containing parts for
over two decades after the early 1990s. 
Thus, they did not show a disputed issue.  The motion for summary adjudication is granted.
            The
motion for summary judgment is DENIED. 
The motion for summary adjudication is GRANTED as to the third cause of
action and punitive damages and DENIED as to the fourth cause of action.
            The
moving party is to give notice.
 