  Case Number:  21PSCV00187    Hearing Date:   April 15, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s
Counsel Andrew Twietmeye’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel is TBD/likely GRANTED, effective
upon [see below]. 
 
Background
 
This is a
defamation case. Plaintiff Honghua Shang
(“Plaintiff”) alleges as follows: Plaintiff is a licensed real estate broker.
Plaintiff incorporated Echain in 2012 and Great Wall Realty, Inc. in 2017 and
has operated both since the aforesaid dates. Defendants Jing Jin (“Jin”), Benjamin
Lee (“Lee”), Melvin Gong (“Gong”), Alistair Mercado (“Mercado”), Wendy L. and
Mandy Lau (“Lau”) posted negative reviews/comments regarding Plaintiff, Echain
and Great Wall on Yelp, www.CCYP.com (i.e., a popular platform for business promotion
serving the Chinese business community and consumers), www.xiaohonshu.com (i.e., “another popular website that caters to Chinese speaking
people and the Chinese business community”), Google Review and/or Facebook.
 
On March 5,
2021, Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting a cause of action against Jin,
Lee, Gong, Mercado, Wendy L., Lau and Does 1-25 for:
 
1.    Defamation
Per Se
 
On June 22,
2021, Gong filed his answer.
 
On August 3,
2021, Mercado filed his answer. 
 
On March 16, 2023, Plaintiff filed
a substitution of attorney indicating that she was replacing former counsel
Jennifer Felten and representing herself pro per. 
 
On December 6, 2023, Plaintiff
filed a substitution of attorney indicating that counsel Twietmeyer has been
retained. 
 
On December 18, 2023, Jing Jin and
Lee filed their answer. 
 
On March 8, 2024, Plaintiff’s
Counsel Andrew W. Twietmeyer filed the instant motion.
 
On April 8, 2024, Defendant Melvin Gong filed a ‘Response To
Plaintiff’s Counsel’s Motion To Be Relieved As Counsel.’
 
Discussion
 
 Plaintiff’s Counsel seeks to be relieved as
counsel as his client has become “unreasonably difficult” and has become
“unusually unresponsive.” (Motion p. 6 of 13 of PDF.) As all three required
forms have been filed (MC-051, 052, and 053) forms have been submitted, as all
parties have been properly notified, and as there are no immediate substantive
motions on calendar, the court would ordinarily grant such a motion. 
 
However, Defendant Gong’s
seeming opposition raises valid concerns.
According to Gong, there is outstanding discovery in the case. During the nine
months in which Plaintiff was pro per, Plaintiff failed to discovery. In fact,
the court almost dismissed this action in October 2023 given Plaintiff’s
inaction. (Gong Response. p. 1:26-27.) Even with
retention of current counsel, Plaintiff, despite assurances by Counsel
Twietmyer, has still failed to provide the documents promised to be produced
after the January 2023 deposition. 
 
That said, Mr. Twietmeyer satisfying his discovery
obligations appears to be difficult or seemingly impossible as he is no longer
in communications with his client, suggesting that it is Plaintiff who refuses
to turn over said documents. Thus, as Counsel Twietmyer remaining on the
case will not provide appropriate relief, other measures may have to be
considered in this case such as terminating sanctions.[1]

 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, Counsel’s Motion to Be Relieved as
Counsel is GRANTED, effective upon serving this court’s order relieving Counsel sent to Plaintiff,
Defendants, and all other parties who have appeared in the case. 
 


