 Case Number:  21STCV24975    Hearing Date:   April 15, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO VACATE AND
RECONSIDER THE COURT’S MARCH 1, 2024 AND MARCH 4, 2024 ORDERS GRANTING
DEFENDANTS’ MOTION FOR LEAVE TO CONDUCT PSYCHOLOGICAL EVALUATIONS OF PLAINTIFFS
is DENIED. 
 
Background[1]
 
This is a
personal injury case. Plaintiffs DAVID FLORES, an individual and LINDA LEON, an
individual, (collectively, “Plaintiffs” and/or “Plaintiff”) allege the
following against Defendants BURNER CONSTRUCTION CORP. (“Burner Construction”),
BENJAMIN THOMAS CALHOUN (“Calhoun”), an individual, JON WILLIAM HOSEA, an
individual, and DOES 1 THROUGH 50, Inclusive, (collectively, “Defendants”
and/or “Defendant”): Defendants were recklessly driving and caused a collision
with Plaintiffs’ vehicle. Defendants were “high-beaming” and overtaking one
another when they lost control of their vehicles and caused the crash.
 
On July 7,
2021, Plaintiffs filed suit. 
 
On September
19, 2022, Plaintiff filed its second amend complaint (SAC) for:
 
1.     Negligence 
2.     Negligence Per Se and
3.     Statutory Liability
 
On January 30, 2024, Defendants Calhoun and Burner filed a Motion
for Leave to Conduct Psychological Evaluations of Plaintiffs. 
 
On March 1, 2024, after taking the
matter under submission, the court granted and denied in part the motion:
GRANTED IN PART (i.e., as to the IME Itself) and DENIED IN PART (i.e., as to
Raw Data and AudioRecording). (See also 3/4/24 Nunc Pro Tunc Order.) 
 
On March 19,
2024, Plaintiffs filed the instant motion. 
 
On April 2,
2024, Defendants filed their opposition and Defendant Hosea filed a notice of
joinder. 
 
To date, as
of 4/11, no reply has been filed (due 5 court days before hearing (Monday,
4/8).) 
 
Legal
Standard
 
A formal
notice of ruling is required to set the time limit running to file a motion for
reconsideration. The 10-day time limit runs from service of notice of entry of
the order. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (a).) 
 
Pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 1008: 
 
When an application for an order has
been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or
granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order
may, within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of
the order and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law,
make application to the same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider
the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the
application shall state by affidavit what application was made
before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new
or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1008)
(emphasis added)
 
Discussion
 
The court’s
ruling will be brief as there are  NO new or different facts, circumstances, or law
presented.[2]

 
As with
before (see 6/22/23 ruling), Plaintiffs seek to use a motion for
reconsideration to address the merits of a motion. In this motion, Plaintiffs
argue that the court has “summarily and arbitrarily” (Motion p. 1 of 38 of PDF)
made its ruling. It is unclear how and why Plaintiffs’ Counsel argues
that he had no “notice”
of the court’s intent to rule in such a way (Motion p. 3 of 38 of PDF) when the parties attended an IDC, the
issues were briefed, a thorough six-page tentative ruling was issued,
and the parties extensively argued the matter during the hearing.  
 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, as Plaintiff is attempting to
reargue the merits of the motion, something which should been done in
opposition to the motion to quash,[3] this
motion is denied. 


