 Case Number:  23STCV29730    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE 
Hearing Date: 11/22/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV29730 CISTIAN MARTINEZ
vs EAN HOLDINGS, LLC, et al.
Moving Party: Defendant Hansa Senturk
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient
Ruling: GRANTED 
 
Legal Standard 
        CCP
§ 2020.010 permits discovery of non-party witnesses through oral and written
depositions. (See CCP § 2020.010(a)(1), (2); Hawkins v. TACA International
Airlines, S.A. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 466, 476.) A deposition subpoena may
command the attendance and testimony of the deponent, the production of
business records, or both. (CCP § 2020.020.) Additional requirements regarding
notification and a right to object are in place where the records sought are
consumer records, including personal medical records. (See CCP §
1985.3.)  
        Two
provisions in the Code of Civil Procedure govern motions to compel responses to
deposition subpoenas. CCP § 1987.1 provides that “[i]f a subpoena requires the
attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, electronically
stored information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by [a party or a witness] . . . may make an order quashing the subpoena
entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or
conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders.”  
        CCP
§ 2025.480(a) similarly provides that “[i]f a deponent fails to answer any
question or to produce any document, electronically stored information,¿or
tangible thing under the deponent's control that is specified in the deposition
notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court
for an order compelling that answer or production.” Unlike CCP § 1987.1, CCP §
2025.480 also includes a time limit (“[t]his motion shall be made no later than
60 days after the completion of the record of the deposition”) and a meet and
confer requirement (“[t]his motion . . . shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040”). (CCP § 2025.480(b).) Finally, CCP
§ 2025.480(c) requires that notice of the motion be given to all parties and to
the deponent. 
Discussion
This case arises from a
motor vehicle collision between Plaintiff Cistian Martinez and Defendant Hansa
Senturk. Plaintiff is claiming $45,500 in past lost income, along with an
unspecified claim for future lost earnings. Plaintiff identified only one prior
employer, Michi Floor Co., during discovery but produced only two W-2 forms
from this employer, reflecting less than $5,000 in wages for 2023 and less than
$10,000 for 2022. To evaluate Plaintiff's lost earnings claim, Defendant Hansa
Senturk served a Deposition Subpoena for Production of Employment Records on
Michi Floor Co. on August 21, 2024. Plaintiff did not object to the subpoena,
which required production of records by September 9, 2024. Michi Floor Co.
failed to produce the requested documents by the deadline or respond to
Defendant’s multiple meet-and-confer attempts. Defendant now moves to compel
compliance with the subpoena. Neither Plaintiff nor the deponent filed an
opposition.
The Court finds good
cause to compel production of the employment records. There is a significant
discrepancy between Plaintiff’s claim for lost wages and the income reflected
in the limited documents produced. Defendant is entitled to Plaintiff’s employment
records to evaluate Plaintiff’s claims. Additionally, Defendant satisfied the
meet-and-confer requirement, as Defendant’s repeated attempts to obtain
compliance were ignored by Michi Floor Co. Finally, notice of the motion has
been properly served on all parties and the deponent.
Accordingly, the motion
is granted. Michi Floor Co. is ordered to comply with the subpoena and produce
the requested employment records within 15 days of this Order.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 