 Case Number:  23STCV17446    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL
Hearing Date: 11/22/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV17446 MICHAEL
ADEBAMOWO vs MIGUEL GOMEZ, INDIVIDUAL, et al. 
Moving Party: Defendant Miguel Gomez and
Interepid Glass & Mirror, Inc
Responding Party: Plaintiff
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: GRANTED 
 
On July 25, 2023,
Plaintiff Michael Adebamowo filed a complaint alleging personal injuries and
damages. On November 20, 2023, Defendants Miguel Gomez and Interepid Glass
& Mirror, Inc. filed their answer. A trial date of January 21, 2025, is
currently set for this matter.
Defendants argue they
need additional time to complete discovery related to Plaintiff’s alleged
injuries. Several depositions remain outstanding. Plaintiff’s deposition is
scheduled for November 18, 2024, and Defendants assert they will need
additional time following the deposition to evaluate the claims and retain any
necessary experts to examine Plaintiff. Furthermore, the majority of the
subpoenaed records are still pending receipt. No prior continuances have been
requested or granted in this matter.
The Court finds good
cause to grant a continuance, as Defendants only entered the case in November
2023, and their request for additional time to complete discovery is somewhat
reasonable. Additionally, this is Defendants’ first request for a continuance.
However, pursuant to California Rules of Court Rule 3.714, the Court must seek
to ensure that civil cases proceed to trial within two years. With the
requested continuance, this case will approach the two-year deadline.
Therefore, the Court will grant only a short continuance and notes it would be
disinclined to grant any further continuances in compliance with the directives
of Rule 3.714
The new trial date is
set for April __, 2025, at 8:30 a.m. The Final Status Conference is
continued to April __, 2025, at 10:00 a.m. All case-related deadlines
will follow the new trial date.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 