 Case Number:  22STCV35768    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


January
  16, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV35768




MOTIONS:  


(1)  
  Compel Form Interrogatories, Set One; 
(2)  
  Compel Request for Production of Documents




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants
  Arc City and Bryan E. Bohannan




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Esther K. Lee



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendants Arc City and Bryan E.
Bohannan (Defendants) move to compel Plaintiff Esther K. Lee (Plaintiff) to
serve verified responses, without objections, to Form Interrogatories, Set One and
Request for Production, Set One. Plaintiff has filed an opposition declaration.
 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Interrogatories
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a
timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 (b).) Failure to timely respond waives
all objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290 (a)(1),
(a)(2).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no
responses have been served and no meet and confer is required when a party does
not respond to discovery requests. All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
If a motion to compel responses is filed, the Court shall impose a
monetary sanction against the losing party “unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
 
Requests
for Production
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.300, if a party fails to
serve a timely response to a demand for inspection, the party making the demand
may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Code Civ. Pro §
2031.300 (b).) The party who fails to serve a timely response to a demand for
inspection waives any objection to the demand unless the court finds that the
party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance or
party’s failure was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300 (a)(1)- (2).) 
 
Courts shall impose a monetary sanction against any party who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for
inspection unless the party acted with substantial justification or other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Defendant served Form Interrogatories, Set One and Request for
Production, Set One, on Plaintiff on January 4, 2023. (Palys Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A.)
The responses were due February 8, 2023. On March 1, 2023, Defendants sent a
letter inquiring about the responses. (Id. ¶ 3, Exh. B.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff’s counsel filed a declaration, under penalty
of perjury, that responses to the above discovery have been served. (Kim Decl.
¶ 4.) Counsel notes that when the discovery was first served, Plaintiff was in
pro per. (Id. ¶ 5.) 
 
In reply, Defendants do not dispute that responses were served, but
argue they are deficient. Defendants state that Plaintiff’s counsel agreed to
serve further responses but has not done so. (Lopez Decl. ¶ 3.) The Court notes
that Plaintiff has submitted a verification for each discovery response. (Lopez
Decl., Exh. C.) Therefore, a motion to compel further is the proper motion to
make, including abiding by the Court’s IDC requirement in the Eighth Amended
Standing Order. 
 
Therefore, because responses have been served, the motions to compel
are denied as moot. Defendants request for judicial notice is denied as it has
no effect on the ruling herein. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ Motions to Compel Form Interrogatories, Set One
and Request for Production, Set One are DENIED as moot. 
 
Defendants
shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such. 