  Case Number:  19STCV20094    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


January
  16, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


19STCV20094




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Nora Meza




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
The Court has reviewed the
Petition to Approve Compromise of Pending Action of a Minor, Starr Olazaba, age 14. The Court does not approve and
DENIES the petition based on the following reasons:
 
The petition states that Claimant sustained bruises to her
stomach but received no care. (Petition, item 6, 7.) Petitioner filed a
declaration on December 5, 2023 stating there are no medical records for
Claimant. (Meza Decl. ¶ 4.) However, given the inconsistent assertions
regarding Claimant’s injuries in previous petitions, the Court
requires a declaration from the guardian ad litem, to ensure that Claimant is
fully recovered.  
 
Item 10b should only include amounts
offered to Claimant. The $8,000 amounts do not apply to Claimant. 
 
The amount in 11b(1) should not include
Claimant’s settlement, but all persons other than the claimant. Accordingly,
Claimant’s name/amount should not be included in 11b(5). 
 
Petitioner must include attachment 11b(3) describing
the effect on Petitioner’s claim to the proposed compromise. 
 
Petitioner must include attachment 11b(6) describing
the reasons for the apportionment. 
 
Petitioner checked box 14a and boxes in
14b. These are contradictory. 
 
Item 17f must include fees the attorney
expects to receive in connection with this claim. Therefore, Petitioner must
indicate fees expected from the petition for David Meza. 
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice.