 Case Number:  23STCV25955    Hearing Date:   April 8, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



WAQAR HASHIM, an individual,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
FARADAY&FUTURE, INC., a California corporation; and DOES
  1-100, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV25955
 Hearing Date:   4/8/24
 Trial Date:        2/11/25
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiff Waqar
  Hashim’s Motion for Summary Adjudication.



 
I. Background
Plaintiff Waqar Hashim sues
Defendants Faraday & Future, Inc. (Faraday) and Does 1-100 pursuant to an
October 24, 2023, Complaint alleging claims of (1) Failure to Pay Wages in
Violation of Cal. Labor Code § 201, et seq., (2) Unfair Business Practices in
Violation of Cal. Business & Professions Code § 17200, and (3) Wrongful
Constructive Discharge in Violation of Public Policy.
The claims arise from the following
allegations. Defendants—which appear to operate as an electric vehicle company—enticed
Plaintiff Hashim to leave his employment with an established auto manufacturer
in the State of Michigan by offering Plaintiff Hashim employment as Faraday’s VP
of Program Management. Faraday would pay Hashim an annual salary of $400,000,
plus a $500,000 signing bonus and stock options in a holding company. Within
two weeks of starting his employment in September 2018, Faraday reduced Hashim’s
salary by half. By the end of Hashim’s employment in March 2023, Faraday had
failed to pay Hashim a salary for several months. In March 2023, Plaintiff
Hashim quit his employment at Faraday, which the pleadings characterize as a
constructive discharge based on nonpayment of salary.
On December 28, 2023, Plaintiff
Hashim filed an affirmative motion for summary adjudication of the Complaint’s
first and second causes of action.
On March 25, 2024, Defendant Faraday
filed an opposition to Plaintiff’s motion.
On March 29, 2024, Plaintiff Hashim
filed a reply to Faraday’s opposition.
Plaintiff Hashim’s motion is now
the Court.
 
II. Evidentiary Objections
In granting or denying a motion for
summary judgment or summary adjudication, the court need rule only on those
objections to evidence that it deems material to its disposition of the motion.
Objections to evidence that are not ruled on for purposes of the motion shall
be preserved for appellate review. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (q).)
A. Plaintiff Hashim’s Reply
Objections to Opposition Evidence
Objection to ¶ 4 of Yang
Declaration: Not ruled on as not material to disposition of ruling.
Objection to ¶ 5 of Yang
Declaration: OVERRULED.
B. Defendant Faraday’s
Objections to Reply Evidence
Objection Nos. 2-3: Not ruled on as
not material to disposition of ruling.
 
III. Motion for Summary Adjudication
A. Legal Standard
A motion for summary judgment shall
be granted if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as
to any material fact for trial or that the moving party is entitled to a
judgment as a matter of law. (Code of Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) A party
may also seek summary adjudication of select causes of action, affirmative
defenses, claims for damages, or issues of duty, which may be made by a
standalone motion or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and
proceeds in all procedural respects like a motion for summary judgment, but
which must completely dispose of the challenged cause of action, affirmative
defense, claim for damages, or issue of duty. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds.
(f)(1)-(2), (t).) The moving party bears the initial burden of production to
make prima facie showing no triable material fact issues. (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) This burden on summary
judgment or adjudication “is more properly one of persuasion rather than proof,
since he must persuade the court that there is no material fact for a
reasonable trier of fact to find, and not to prove any such fact to the
satisfaction of the court itself as though it were sitting as the trier of
fact.” (Id. at p. 850, fn. 11.) If the moving party meets this burden,
the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a rebuttal prima facie showing
that a triable issue of material fact exists. (Id. at p. 849.) “[I]n
ruling on motions for summary judgment courts are to ‘“liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”’ [Citations].” (Cheal v. El
Camino Hospital (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 736, 760.)
B. Analysis
1. Summary
Adjudication, Complaint, First Cause of Action, Failure to Pay Wages in
Violation of Labor Code § 201 et seq.: DENIED.
a. Relevant
Law
Labor Code section 201 provides
that, if an employer terminates an employee, it must pay all wages earned and
unpaid at the time of discharge. (Lab. Code, § 201, subd. (a).) If an employee
quits, all wages earned and unpaid are due and payable not later than 72 hours
after quitting, unless the employee has given 72 hours previous notice of his
or her intention to quit, in which case the employee is entitled to his or her
wages at the time of quitting. (Lab. Code, § 202, subd. (a).) If an employer
violates section 201 or 202, the employee may recover a penalty of up to 30
days of additional wages. (Lab. Code, § 203, subd. (a).)
b. Allegations
The first cause of action alleges
that as of March 2023, when Plaintiff Hashim was constructively discharged from
his employment at Faraday, Plaintiff Hashim was owed hundreds of thousands of
dollars by Faraday, which have not been paid. (Complaint, ¶¶ 5-11.)
c. Moving
Party’s Burden
In his motion, Plaintiff Hashim
argues that no triable issues of material fact exist as to the Complaint’s
first of action because Hashim provides evidence of a Faraday agent admitting
that Faraday owes Plaintiff Hashim $322,986 as of March 7, 2023. (Mot., p. 3 at
§ I.A., citing Mot., Separate Statement (Sep. St.), Undisputed Material Fact
(UMF) Nos. 3-4.)
A review of Plaintiff’s evidence shows
that it fails to carry his burden on summary adjudication of the Complaint’s
first cause of action.
Plaintiff Hashim’s evidence
consists of his declaration, which is comprised of three paragraphs, stating
that plaintiff resigned from his employment in “March 2023” and providing as an
exhibit a printout of an email between Plaintiff Hashim and a Faraday employee
establishing that as of March 7, 2023, Faraday owed Plaintiff Hashim $322,986,
comprised of $192,500 owed as a signing bonus and $130,486 owed based on
backpay tied to a reduction in salary. (Mot., Hashim Decl., ¶¶ 1-3, Ex. 1.)
This evidence does not prove that
these wages were not paid within 72 hours of Plaintiff Hashim’s alleged
constructive discharge, for which we do not have evidence of the actual date in
March. Nor is there any evidence to clarify whether Faraday has paid Plaintiff
Hashim any money, or how much, between March 7, 2023, and the present. The
email does reflect that a Faraday employee acknowledged outstanding monies owed
to Plaintiff as of March 7, 2023.
This evidence thus fails to carry
Plaintiff’s burden as to the Complaint’s first cause of action.
Moreover, assuming arguendo that
Plaintiff had met his burden through implication, Faraday has filed sufficient
evidence to meet its responsive burden as to the Complaint’s first cause of
action. For example, Faraday has filed evidence to show that Plaintiff was only
entitled to a bonus after working for Faraday for five years (Opp’n, Yang
Decl., ¶ 5, cited in Opp’n, Sep. St., Response to UMF No. 2), which Hashim
failed to complete in part due to his taking a voluntary leave of absence and
thereafter refusing two job positions. (Opp’n, Yang Decl., ¶¶ 6-11, cited in
Opp’n, Sep. St., Response to UMF Nos. 2-4). Faraday argues that the March 7 email
was sent in the context of a job offer, which he rejected. (Id. at ¶ 8;
Response to UMF No. 3.) Again, the Court is required in ruling on a motion for
summary adjudication to ‘“liberally construe the evidence in support of the
party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in
favor of that party.”’ (Cheal v. El Camino Hospital, supra, 223
Cal.App.4th at p. 760.)
d. Final
Determination
Summary adjudication of this first
cause of action is thus DENIED.
2. Summary
Adjudication, Complaint, Second Cause of Action, Unfair Business Practices in Violation
of Business & Professions Code § 17200: DENIED.
a. Relevant
Law
To state a cause of action for
unfair business practices, a plaintiff must establish defendant engaged in “unlawful,
unfair or fraudulent business act or practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or
misleading advertising.” (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200.)
b. Court’s
Determination
Here, the Court DENIES summary
adjudication of the Complaint’s second cause of action because liability on the
second cause of action is derivative of liability on the first cause of action.
(Compare Complaint, ¶¶ 12-14, with Complaint, ¶¶ 5-11.)
 
IV. Conclusion
Plaintiff Waqar Hashim’s Motion for Summary Adjudication is DENIED.