  Case Number:  21STCV13920    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2023    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



RANDALL L. BORT, an individual,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
KBS HOLDCO, LLC, a California limited liability company; BRIAN
  KENNEDY, an individual, and DOES 1-50, inclusive,
                        Defendants.
  
______________________________________
KBS HOLDCO, LLC, a California limited liability company; BRIAN
  KENNEDY, an individual,
                        Cross-Complainants,
            v.
RANDALL L. BORT, an individual; and ROES 1-10, inclusive,
                        Cross-Defendants.


 Case No.:          21STCV13920
 Hearing Date:   11/16/23
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendants/Cross-Complainants KBS Holdco, LLC and Brian
  Kennedy’s Motion to Compel Non-Party Leonard Green & Partners LP’s
  Compliance with Deposition Subpoena and Production of Responsive Documents;
  and
Defendants/Cross-Complainants KBS Holdco, LLC and Brian
  Kennedy’s Request for Monetary Sanctions.



 
Background
Pleadings
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Randall
L. Bort (hereafter, Plaintiff Bort) sues Defendants/Cross-Complainants KBS
Holdco, LLC (KBS), Brian Kennedy (KBS’s owner), and Does 1-50 pursuant to
claims of (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Promissory Estoppel, (3) Quantum Meruit,
and (4) Account Stated.
The claims arise from allegations
that KBS and Kennedy (hereafter, Defendants) entered into a written Agreement
with Plaintiff Bort to employ his professional services to perform various
tasks—including obtaining financing—for Defendants’ intended purchase of the
remainder of a company named Regency Outdoor Advertising (Regency), with
Plaintiff Bort to be paid a Retainer Fee of $50,000 or relevant Success Fee of
$1,470,000 if the Regency Project was structured as an asset purchase.
Plaintiff Bort alleges that his efforts helped the Defendants successfully
purchase Regency on February 2, 2021 but that the Defendants breached the
Agreement by only paying Plaintiff Bort a $10,000 downpayment and no other monies,
causing Bort damages of $1,460,000.
In turn, Defendants KBS and Kennedy
sue Plaintiff Bort and Roes 1-10 pursuant to a June 30, 2021 Cross-Complaint
alleging claims of (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Rescission, (3) Unfair
Competition, and (4) Declaratory Relief.
The claims in the cross-complaint arise
from allegations that, among other things, Defendant Kennedy acquired Regency
through use of his own funds and that Plaintiff Bort breached the Agreement by
failing to secure the financing contemplated by the parties’ contract, for
which reason a rescission of the Agreement is merited and Plaintiff Bort is not
entitled to the $1,460,000 sought in the Complaint.
Motions Before the Court
On August 31, 2021, the Court set
jury trial for May 16, 2023.
On January 19, 2023, Defendants filed
an ex parte application to continue trial by at least 90 days and continue all
pre-trial and discovery dates and deadlines so that the same were calculated
based upon the new trial date.
That same day, Plaintiff Bort
opposed the ex parte application.
On January 20, 2023, Department 32
granted the ex parte application and advanced and continued trial to September
26, 2023. The minutes do not explicitly mention pre-trial and discovery dates
and deadlines other than to note that the ex parte application had been granted
with no qualification.
In their efforts to secure
discovery as to Plaintiff’s efforts to obtain financing sources for the Regency
Project, Defendants KBS and Kennedy obtained testimony from Plaintiff Bort as
to his destruction of handwritten notes upon the closing of the Regency Project.
Plaintiff is alleged to have identified Leonard Green & Partners LP
(Leonard Green) as one of the possible financing sources Plaintiff had pursued
for the Regency Project.
On July 18, 2023, Defendants KBS
and Kennedy served a deposition subpoena for the deposition of and production
of documents by Leonard Green’s PMQ.
The deposition subpoena included five
requests for production:
(1) Leonard Green’s entire file
regarding Brian Kennedy and/or Regency Outdoor Advertising;
(2) All documents that refer or
relate to any teleconferences with Randall Bort, at phone number 310.567.8818,
between January 2020 and February 2021 including, without limitation, all call
logs and notes from calls;
(3) All communications with Randall
Bort regarding Brian Kennedy and/or Regency Outdoor Advertising;
(4) All documents and
communications that refer or relate to Brian Kennedy, including, without
limitation, all documents that refer or relate to Mr. Kennedy’s purchase of his
brother’s claimed interest in Regency Outdoor Advertising;
(5) All documents and
communications that refer or relate to any offers to provide financing for Mr.
Kennedy’s purchase of his brother’s claimed interest in Regency Outdoor
Advertising.
The deposition subpoena also
included five categories of examination:
(1) All due diligence conducted
into Brian Kennedy, KBS Holdco LLC, and/or Regency Outdoor Advertising;
(2) All proposals or offers to
provide financing to Brian Kennedy, KBS Holdco LLC, and/or Regency Outdoor
Advertising;
(3) All communications with Randall
Bort regarding Brian Kennedy and/or Regency Outdoor Advertising;
(4) All documents and
communications that refer or relate to Brian Kennedy, including, without
limitation, Mr. Kennedy’s purchase of his brother’s claimed interest in Regency
Outdoor Advertising; and
(5) Whether Leonard Green &
Partners typically seeks equity or securities as part of its financing offers
and proposals.
On August 18, 2023, Defendants
filed an ex parte application to continue trial and continue all pre-trial and
discovery dates and deadlines so that the same were calculated based upon the
new trial date.
That same day, Plaintiff Bort
opposed the ex parte application.
On August 21, 2023, the Court granted
the ex parte application and advanced and continued trial to November 7, 2023.
The Court’s order continued discovery cut offs and pre-trial orders to coincide
with the newly rescheduled trial date. 
Defendants’ counsel and Leonard
Green’s counsel conferred as to the deposition notice between August 15, 2023
and September 8, 2023.
On September 8, 2023, Leonard Green
provided objection-only responses to the deposition subpoena served by KBS and
Kennedy.
On October 19, 2023, Defendants KBS
and Kennedy filed a motion to compel the deposition of and production of
documents by Leonard Green’s PMQ consistent with the July 18, 2023 deposition
notice.
On October 30, 2023, at a hearing for
a motion by Defendants to quash subpoenas served by Plaintiff on nonparties,
the parties stipulated to vacating the trial date in this action.
That same day, Plaintiff’s counsel
filed a declaration that explained the alleged misrepresentations in KBS and
Kennedy’s moving papers, using exhibits attached to counsel’s declaration to
contradict Defendants’ representations. Two of those exhibits were lodged with
the Court.
On November 3, 2023, Leonard Green opposed
Defendants’ motion.
On November 8, 2023, Defendants KBS
and Kennedy replied to the opposition.
Defendants’ motion is now before
the Court.
 
Motion to Compel Deposition of Nonparty

Legal Standard
If, [1] after service of a
deposition notice, [2] a party to the action or an officer, director, managing
agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that
is a party under Section 2025.230, [3] without having served a valid objection
under Section 2025.410, [4] fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with
it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, [5] the
party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s
attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a) [Arabic numerals
added for clarity].)
Although Code of Civil Procedure
section 2025.450 does not apply to nonparties and section 2025.480 does not
address attendance, courts regularly consider and grant motions to compel
nonparties to attend depositions. (See, e.g., Terry v. SLICO (2009) 175
Cal.App.4th 352, 355 [court considered motion to compel nonparty to attend
deposition; Sears, Roebuck, & Co. v. National Un. Fire Ins. (2005)
131 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1351 [court held that subpoenaing party can move to
compel when nonparty deponent does not appear or produce documents at
deposition]; Brun v. Bailey (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 641, 645-646 [court
considered motion to compel nonparty to attend deposition].)
If the deponent named is not a
natural person, the deposition notice shall describe with reasonable
particularity the matters on which examination is requested. In that event, the
deponent shall designate and produce at the deposition those of its officers,
directors, managing agents, employees, or agents who are most qualified to
testify on its behalf as to those matters to the extent of any information
known or reasonably available to the deponent. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.230.)
The motion shall set forth specific
facts showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b)(1).)
The motion shall also be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when
the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd.
(b)(2).)
If the proposed deponent made some
response to the deposition notice, then a separate statement must accompany any
motion to compel deposition attendance or production. (See Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1345, subd. (b).)
Order Compelling Deposition(s):
DENIED.
In their motion, Defendants KBS and
Kennedy argue that the discovery sought from Leonard Green is relevant and
discoverable. As to the requests for production, Defendants argue that “[t]he[]
[production requests] are meant to obtain relevant discovery regarding
Plaintiff’s efforts on behalf of Defendants and to fill in the gaps caused by
Plaintiff’s admitted destruction of his own files and records.” Defendants also
argue that Leonard Green has refused to comply with the subpoena, subject to
meritless and not-particularized objections that fail to attach a privilege
log. As to the deposition and the categories of examination, Defendants argue
that “the[] categories seek information specific to the Regency Project, and
are meant to test Plaintiff’s claim that he made extensive efforts to obtain
financing for Defendants.” Defendants otherwise argue that the Court should
permit this discovery beyond the October 5, 2023 discovery cutoff (as with the
October 30, 2023 hearing) and that Leonard Green and its counsel should be sanctioned
for costs incurred bringing this motion. (Mot., pp. 5-9.)
On October 30, 2023, Plaintiff’s
counsel filed a declaration attaching exhibits to show: (1) more than 1,000
pages of discovery to Defendants, including 30 pages sent to or received from
Leonard Green, 16 pages of documents related to Leonard Green produced by KBS
and Kennedy, and 35 pages of documents relating to Leonard Green produced by
Defendants’ former counsel; and (2) that Plaintiff never testified to not
recording his work on Defendants’ behalf or that he destroyed his files, but
rather, testified as to throwing away of 20 to 30 pages of handwritten notes,
not files, from conversations with an employee of KBS. (10/30/23 Decl., ¶¶ 4-6,
Exs. 1 [showing first and last page of 1,026 page production by Plaintiff as to
financing efforts], 2 [production by Plaintiff re Leonard Green], 3 [same by
Defendants], 4 [same by Defendants’ counsel]; 10/30/23 Decl., ¶¶ 7-8, Exs. 1
[referencing joint stipulation for sale of Regency], 5 [Plaintiff’s deposition].)
In its opposition, Leonard Green
argues that this motion is untimely as to the discovery motion cutoff—needed to
be heard at least 15 days before the initial trial date of November 7, 2023 (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2024.020, subd. (a))—which is made all the more egregious by
Leonard Green serving objections as early as September 8, 2023, only for this
motion to be filed in October 2023. Leonard Green also argues that it did not
delay responses because it responded to the subpoena as soon as it received the
subpoena via email for the first time on August 15, 2023, followed by
objections on September 8, 2023. Leonard Green argues that “‘the importance of
the requested discovery in resolving the issues’ is, at most, minimal because
this case concerns Plaintiff’s alleged entitlement to a success fee, [especially
where] there is no dispute that Plaintiff’s short-lived dealings with Leonard
Green did not lead to a successful transaction.” Leonard Green also argues that
“the information Defendants seek is already known to the parties or, at a
minimum, available through their documents,” as shown by Plaintif’s counsel’s
declaration exhibits. Leonard Green otherwise supports its objections and
argues for sanctions in favor of Leonard Green. (Opp’n, pp. 9-17.)
In reply, Defendants KBS and
Kennedy argue that they filed this motion promptly after the September 8, 2023
objections, and prior to the cutoff of discovery and discovery motions, and
that through no fault of Defendants’, the Court’s availability could not
accommodate hearing dates prior to the discovery cutoff. Defendants also argue
that any delay was actually caused by Leonard Green, which failed to oppose the
deposition subpoena until nearly three weeks after counsel conferred on August
21, 2023. Defendants otherwise argue the evidence sought is relevant, that
Defendants have a right to seek evidence from third parties as well as parties
to this action, and that production from other third parties—namely, Ares,
Beachpoint Capital, and Levine Leichtman—showed communications relating to the
Regency project that Plaintiff failed to disclose, showing the need for this
discovery. Defendants also oppose sanctions against them and argue for sanction
against Leonard Green and counsel. (Reply, pp. 5-10.)
I. Timeliness
Except as otherwise provided, “any
party shall be entitled as a matter of right to complete discovery proceedings
on or before the 30th day, and to have motions concerning discovery heard on or
before the 15th day, before the date initially set for trial of the action.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020, subd. (a).)
Here, discovery-related deadlines are
set based on the now-vacated November 7, 2023 trial date. The corresponding cutoffs
for discovery and hearings on discovery motions were Friday, October 6, 2023 (see
Code Civ. Proc., §§ 10, 12, 12a, 12c [Sunday, October 8, 2023 to Friday,
October 6, 2023]) and Monday, October 23, 2023.
“[A] continuance or postponement of
the trial date does not operate to reopen discovery proceedings” unless a
motion to reopen discovery is filed and granted pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 2024.050. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020, subd. (b); Pelton-Shepherd
Industries, Inc. v. Delta Packaging Products, Inc. (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th
1568.)
As mentioned above, the cutoff date
for hearings on discovery motions was Monday October 23, 2023. On September 8,
2023, Leonard Green served objection-only responses to the Defendants’
deposition subpoena. By that time, Defendants were aware of the Court’s August
21, 2023 order tying discovery deadlines to the November 7, 2023 trial. Yet,
Defendants did not file this motion until October 19, 2023, nearly six weeks
later. Neither did Defendants file an ex parte to advance the hearing on its
motion to compel enforcement of the Leonard Green PMQ deposition subpoena or to
continue trial- and discovery-related dates and deadlines as they had on
January 19, 2023 and August 18, 2023.  With a looming discovery cut off date, there is no satisfactory explanation as to why Defendants waited several weeks after learning that Leonard Green was refusing to produce the documents to file the instant motion to compel
Moreover, it is unclear when
Defendants KBS and Kennedy became aware of their need to serve subpoenas on
Leonard Green. Plaintiff’s counsel’s October 30, 2023 declaration attaches excerpts
from Plaintiff Bort’s February 13, 2023 deposition. It is at this deposition
that Plaintiff Bort testifies to destroying about 30 handwritten notes relating
to conversations with Mr. Berardi. (10/30/23 Dreibholz Decl., Ex. 5.)
Defendants’ moving papers state that “Plaintiff testified at his deposition
that he had destroyed his files and had no records of his work on Defendants’
behalf, and his communications with financing sources” but that “Plaintiff did
identify a number of the financing sources he communicated with on Defendants’
behalf, including Leonard Green.” (Mot., p. 2, Whitehead Decl., ¶¶ 2-4; cf.
10/30/23 Dreibholz Decl., Ex. 5 [no mention of Leonard Green in excerpt].) If
the deposition to which Defendants refer in their moving papers is the February
13, 2023 deposition of Plaintiff, and if Plaintiff disclosed Leonard Green’s
identity to Defendants at that time, then it is unclear to the Court why
Defendants delayed until July 18, 2023 to serve a deposition subpoena on
Leonard Green.
Because of both of these delays,
the Court cannot find that Defendants moved diligently to obtain this discovery
such that the Court should overlook the issue of timeliness.
As to the hearing on the
prior motion to quash that took place on October 30, 2023, no objection was
made on timeliness grounds. Here, by contrast, Leonard Green raises that issue.
If a motion is filed on statutory notice and is set because of the court’s
impacted calendar beyond the discovery cut-off hearing date, then the proper
procedure is to move ex parte to either continue the cut-off date or shorten
notice on the motion.
Defendants’ motion is therefore
DENIED.
Sanctions: DENIED.
If a motion under subdivision (a)
is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the
deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated,
unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)
Having denied the motion by
Defendants KBS and Kennedy, the Court also DENIES their monetary sanctions
request.
The Court likewise DENIES Leonard
Green’s sanctions request because Defendants made reasonable arguments in their
motion, though not ultimately successful. 
Conclusion
Defendants/Cross-Complainants KBS
Holdco, LLC and Brian Kennedy’s Motion to Compel Non-Party Leonard Green &
Partners LP’s Compliance with Deposition Subpoena and Production of Responsive
Documents is DENIED.
Defendants/Cross-Complainants KBS
Holdco, LLC and Brian Kennedy’s Request for Monetary Sanctions is DENIED.
Non-Party Leonard Green &
Partners LP’s request for sanctions is DENIED.