 Case Number:  22STCV03099    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  SCOTT NEWBERGER, Plaintiff(s), vs.  HAYKAZ BALIAN, ET AL., Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) Case No.: 22STCV03099  [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING WITHOUT PREJUDICE MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m. December 5, 2023   Plaintiff Scott Newberger (“Plaintiff”) attorney of record, Douglas Younglove, Esq. of the Law Offices of Jacob Emrani (“Counsel”), moves to be relieved as counsel contending relief is necessary because the attorney-client relationship has had a complete breakdown. The breakdown in the attorney-client relationship has resulted in the client suing his own attorneys (a matter which resolved earlier this year).    Counsel has attached a proof of service demonstrating service of the motion, declaration, and proposed order on Plaintiff by both mail and by electronic mail.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(d).)    However, the motion is denied without prejudice for the following reason:  Counsel declares he was unable to confirm Plaintiff’s current address after calling Plaintiff’s last known number. Counsel also emailed Plaintiff and received a reply, wherein Plaintiff refused to confirm his address.   There is indication that Plaintiff is able to receive and respond to electronic mail. However, California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362(d)(2) states: “If the notice is served on the client by electronic service under Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6 and rule 2.251, it must be accompanied by a declaration stating that the electronic service address is the client's current electronic service address.”  The Court cannot locate any such declaration with Counsel’s notice of motion, which must be filed before the Court can grant the motion in terms of effectuating service by electronic email instead of by mail under CCP §1011(b).  Otherwise, if Counsel is unable to serve Plaintiff at a confirmed physical address, Counsel must serve the moving papers on the Clerk of the Court- located at Stanley Mosk Courthouse- pursuant to CCP §1011(b) and California Rules Court, rule 3.1362(d).   Moving Counsel is ordered to give notice.  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 4th day of December 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court    