 Case Number:  21STCV39883    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  VICTORIA PLANCARTE, ET AL, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  LYFT, INC., ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV39883  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  December 5, 2023  I. Background Plaintiffs, Victoria Brianna Plancarte and Natalie Priscilla Barr, by and through her guardian ad litem Marielu Barr (“Plaintiffs”) filed this action against Defendants Lyft, Inc. (“Lyft”), Ayalnesh Tessema, Raquel Rosasarmijo for damages arising from an automobile incident.   At this time, Plaintiffs move to compel the deposition of Lyft’s employee, Katye Coombs (“Coombs”). Lyft opposes the motion, and Plaintiffs filed a reply.    Moving Argument Coombs is an employee of Lyft, and signed the verification to Lyft’s discovery responses as an authorized representative of Lyft. On July 10, 2023, Plaintiffs requested Coombs’ availability for deposition. After not receiving a response, on July 21, 2023, Plaintiffs served a deposition notice of Coombs for August 15, 2023. Lyft objected to the deposition, asserting that her testimony is unnecessary. After the parties met and conferred, Lyft’s counsel stated they would not produce Coombs for deposition.   Opposing Argument Lyft argues that Coombs has no personal knowledge of any facts relevant to this litigation, and that Lyft has offered its person most qualified (“PMQ”) to be available for the information sought from Coombs. Lyft also contends that Coombs cannot be compelled to sit for deposition in California as a Tennessee resident, that Plaintiffs’ claim against Lyft isn’t ripe, and therefore the deposition is unnecessary and inappropriate.   Reply Argument Plaintiffs argue this is the first time Lyft is contending Coombs cannot be compelled to appear for deposition because she is a Tennessee resident. Plaintiffs argue the deposition notice does not seek Coombs to travel for her deposition, and that Coombs submitted herself to the Court’s jurisdiction by verifying Lyft’s discovery responses.   II. Compel Deposition CCP § 2025.450(a) provides, “If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”  CCP § 2025.450 requires the Court to compel the deposition unless it finds a valid objection was served under §2025.410. Lyft argues that because Coombs is an out-of-state resident, it is not required to produce her because she cannot be compelled to appear. However, Lyft’s citation to CCP § 1989 is not in conflict with CCP §2025.260, because Coombs is not being requested to physically attend her deposition. CCP §2025.260(a) provides for a court to permit a deposition of a party or officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party at a place “that is more distant than that permitted under Section 2025.250 [75 miles from the deponent's residence or within the county where the action is pending and within 150 miles of the deponent's residence].” (Toyota Motor Corp. v. Superior Ct. (2011) 197 Cal. App. 4th 1107, 1113; CCP §2025.260 (a).) There is no argument that Coombs is not Lyft’s employee, and CCP § 2025.450 provides that Plaintiffs may notice an employee’s deposition. Lyft relies on Toyota Motor Corp. v. Superior Ct. (2011) 197 Cal. App. 4th 1107 to argue Coombs cannot be compelled to attend a California deposition. However, the Toyota case involved facts of physical travel, wherein the appellate court found that the trial court had no authority to compel Japanese residents to come to Los Angeles to attend depositions. This is distinguishable from the facts here, because Coombs is not being requested by Plaintiffs to physically attend her deposition, but instead to appear remotely.  Further, the Toyota case preceded revisions to the Code of Civil Procedure in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.310 was amended effective Sept. 18, 2020, and amended effective Jan. 1, 2023, stating: "At the election of the deponent or the deposing party, the deposition officer may attend the deposition at a different location than the deponent via remote means. A deponent is not required to be physically present with the deposition officer when being sworn in at the time of the deposition." Further, subdivision (b) of this code section provides, "Subject to Section 2025.420, any party or attorney of record may, but is not required to, be physically present at the deposition at the location of the deponent,” and subdivision (c) states, “The procedures to implement this section shall be established by court order in the specific action or proceeding or by the California Rules of Court.” California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1010(a) states, "Any party may take an oral deposition by telephone, videoconference, or other remote electronic means, provided: Notice is served with the notice of deposition or the subpoena; That party makes all arrangements for any other party to participate in the deposition in an equivalent manner. However, each party so appearing must pay all expenses incurred by it or properly allocated to it; Any party or attorney of record may be physically present at the deposition at the location of the deponent with written notice of such appearance served by personal delivery, email, or fax, at least five court days before the deposition, and subject to Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.420. An attorney for the deponent may be physically present with the deponent without notice." On motion by any person, the court in a specific action may make such other orders as it deems appropriate. (California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1010(d).) Accordingly, Plaintiffs as the deposing party has the right to set the deposition to be conducted remotely.¿By choosing to have a remote deposition, Coombs may appear for the deposition from her residence or anywhere she chooses to. Regardless of whether Coombs deposition may or may not elicit relevant information, Plaintiffs provide sufficient reason to conduct her deposition to explore the adequacy of Lyft’s discovery responses. For the same reasons provided when this Court denied Lyft’s protective order to prevent Coombs’ deposition, even if the deposition is potentially duplicative or yields no relevant results, this is insufficient reason to refuse producing her for deposition. “‘[F]or discovery purposes, information is relevant if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement’ and ‘[a]dmissibility is not the test and information, unless privileged, is discoverable if it might reasonably lead to admissible evidence.’  These rules are applied liberally in favor of discovery . . . and (contrary to popular belief) fishing expeditions are permissible in some cases.”  (Cruz v. Superior Court (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 646, 653, citations omitted.) Lastly, Lyft conclusory states Plaintiffs’ claim is not ripe without any further explanation. The Court is unable to fathom why Plaintiffs’ claims arising from an automobile incident would not be ripe, and therefore the Court will not consider this unexplained contention.  Accordingly, the Plaintiffs’ motion is GRANTED.  (CCP § 2025.450(a).)  Lyft’s employee Coombs is ordered to appear remotely for deposition at a date and time to be noticed by Plaintiffs based on the election of Plaintiff that the deposition is to be completed remotely (CCP § 2025.310).  Plaintiffs must give at least ten days’ notice of the deposition (notice extended per Code if by other than personal service).   In terms of Lyft’s arguments related to the document requests included in the deposition notice, Plaintiffs did not request the production of documents in either the Notice or in the moving papers.  (CCP § 2025.450(b)(1) [“The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”].)  Thus, the Court’s order granting the motion does not include the production of documents.   III. Sanctions CCP § 2025.450(g)(1) requires the court to impose sanctions unless it finds the deponent acted with substantial justification or there are circumstances that render imposition of sanctions unjust. A court has discretion to award sanctions that are “suitable and necessary to enable the party seeking discovery to obtain the objects of the discovery he seeks” but they should not be punitive in nature or levied for the purposes of punishing an offending party. (Vallbona v. Springer (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1525, 1545.) Here, the Court finds no substantial justification for Lyft’s refusal to produce Coombs. Plaintiffs request $2,479.61 in connection with the instant motion. Here, the Court awards Plaintiff a total of $800 in attorney’s fees for the instant motion.  Further, Plaintiffs are awarded the $79.61 for the motion filing fee and associated filing fee costs. Sanctions are sought and imposed against Lyft and its attorney of record.  Lyft and/or its counsel, jointly and severally, are ordered to pay sanctions to Plaintiffs, by and through her attorney of record, in the total amount of $879.61, within twenty (20) days.     Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 4th day of December 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court    