 Case Number:  21STCV45735    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  61 Defendants
The Boeing Company, Sean Downey, and Reed Rowbotham’s Motion for Summary
Judgment is GRANTED.
 
I.               
OBJECTIONS
 
Defendants The Boeing Company, Sean Downey, and Reed Rowbotham
(Defendants) offer objections to the declaration of Plaintiff Cindy Tea
(Plaintiff) submitted in opposition to their motion for summary judgment.
Objections No. 25–27 are SUSTAINED as to Plaintiff’s speculations concerning
Defendants’ age-related motives for her termination, for which she lacks
foundation in personal knowledge. Objection No. 49–51 are SUSTAINED, as
Plaintiff offers no foundation for her testimony that “Boeing” expressed an
intent for older workers to retire, or for the contention that her manager made
her “feel” like Boeing wanted her to retire early. Objection No. 53 is
SUSTAINED, as Plaintiff again offers no foundation for her testimony concerning
Defendants’ motives. 
 
II.            
SUMMARY
JUDGMENT
 
A party may move for summary judgment “if it
is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the
action or proceeding.”  (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 437c, subd. (a).) “[I]f all the evidence submitted, and all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law,” the moving
party will be entitled to summary judgment. 
(Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) A motion for summary adjudication may be made
by itself or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and shall
proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (f)(2).)
 
The moving party bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact, and if he does so, the burden shifts to the opposing
party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850;
accord Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)
 
Once the defendant
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a
defense thereto.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 850.) 
The plaintiff may not rely upon the mere allegations or denials of its
pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead,
shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material
fact exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.  (Ibid.) 
To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the
motion must produce substantial responsive evidence.  (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Defendants The
Boeing Company, Sean Downey, and Reed Rowbotham (Defendants) move for summary
judgment and adjudication on all claims alleged against them in Plaintiff Cindy
Tea’s (Plaintiff) Complaint, on the grounds that there are no triable issues of
fact as to whether Plaintiff was terminated or harassed because of her age,
ethnicity, or national origin, or that she was wrongfully deprived of severance
pay upon her termination. (Motion at pp. 16–24.) Defendants also seek to
dismiss Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages. (Motion at pp. 24–25.)
 
Defendants present the following facts. Plaintiff began her
employment with Boeing in August 2001. (Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of Undisputed
Material Facts No. 1.) Plaintiff is of Cambodian national origin, and at the
time of her termination was 50 years old. (PUMF No. 3.) Plaintiff and her
husband/fiancé William Festa, who also worked at the same Boeing facility, were
injured in a car accident in May 2015, as a result of which they both began
attending medical appointments which required time away from work. (PUMF No.
5–11.)
 
In October 2019, Defendants received an anonymous report
that Plaintiff was recording hours of work that she was not working. (PUMF No.
20.)[1]
Boeing assigned investigation of the report to Defendant Reed Rowbotham, a
corporate investigator who had no knowledge of Plaintiff prior to the
investigation. (PUMF No. 23–24.) Rowbotham’s investigation uncovered a discrepancy
between Plaintiff’s recorded time on the employee timekeeping system (ETS) and
Plaintiff’s badge-swipe records, which indicated when she entered and left the
facility. (PUMF No. 25–33.) Rowbotham reviewed the login records on Plaintiff’s
company laptop, which showed that she did not log in to her laptop while she
was off-premises during the period under investigation out. (PUMF No. 34–36.) 
 
Rowbotham interviewed Plaintiff on January 13 and 14, 2020,
and after each session emailed her a proposed statement which she reviewed,
edited, and sent back to him within 24 hours. (PUMF No. 37–39.) Plaintiff
claims to have told Rowbotham that she worked from home to make up time missed
at work, but her statements do not contain this information. (PUMF No. 40–41.)
Plaintiff has testified at deposition that she worked from home on both her
work laptop and personal computer. (PUMF No. 42.) 
 
Rowbotham’s investigation concluded that Plaintiff had
claimed 72 work hours during the relevant period, but had in fact worked only
39.4 hours, i.e. that 45.3% of the work hours she claimed were “questionable.”
(PUMF No. 50–52, 54–56.)
 
The investigation included similar conclusions about Festa,
who was seen on surveillance footage entering and leaving the premises with
Plaintiff. (PUMF No. 57.) Rowbotham also investigated Defendant Downey,
Plaintiff’s manager, on the grounds that Downey may have been aware of and
approved Plaintiff’s misrepresented ETS entries. (PUMF No. 58.) 
Rowbotham’s report was submitted to an Employee Corrective
Action Review Board (ECARB), made up of four members who had neither met nor
heard of Plaintiff or Festa. (PUMF No. 61–62.) Because Plaintiff’s manager was
also under investigation, he did not participate in the ECARB. (PUMF No. 65.)[2] On
March 4, 2020, the ECARB decided to terminate both Plaintiff and Festa’s
employment. (PUMF No. 66.) 
 
To establish a
discrimination claim under FEHA, an employee must prove the following elements:
“(1) he was a member of a protected class, (2) he was qualified for the position
he sought or was performing competently in the position he held, (3) he
suffered an adverse employment action, such as termination, demotion, or denial
of an available job, and (4) some other circumstance suggests discriminatory
motive.” (Dinslage v. City and County of
San Francisco (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 368, 378.) If the employer offers
evidence of a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for the action, “the
plaintiff bears the burden of proving the employer's proffered reason was
pretextual.” (Brundage v. Hahn (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 228,
236.) 
 
The elements of a
retaliation claim are similar:
 
In order to establish a prima facie
case of retaliation under this section [FEHA], a plaintiff must show (1) he or
she engaged in a ‘protected activity, (2) the employer subjected the employee
to an adverse employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between the
protected activity and the employer's action.
 
(Moore v.
Regents of University of California (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 216, 244,
internal quotation marks omitted.)
 
“‘[California's]
Fair Employment and Housing Act (Gov. Code, § 12900 et seq.) . . . explicitly
prohibits an employer from harassing an employee on the basis of race, sex or
[ethnicity.]’ . . .  To prove a claim
under Title VII, the harassment must be ‘sufficiently severe or pervasive “to
alter the conditions of [the victim's] employment and create an abusive working
environment.”’ [Citation.]” (Dee v. Vintage Petroleum, Inc. (2003) 106
Cal.App.4th 30, 35.)
 
Defendants, in reliance on the facts outlined above, claim
that Plaintiff cannot establish her claims for discrimination, retaliation,
harassment, or wrongful termination. They argue that Plaintiff has identified
not instances, indicators, or evidence of discriminatory or retaliatory animus
motivating any conduct against her. (PUMF No. 12, 81, 88, 94–96.) Rather,
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s termination was motivated by the
investigation into her inaccurate ETS recording of hours worked, conducted by
an impartial panel. (Motion at pp. 16–18.) Moreover, Defendants note that they
never refused a request from Plaintiff for intermittent leave, meaning that
Plaintiff’s claims for failure to accommodate and failure to engage in
interactive process also fail. (Motion at p. 18; PUMF No. 10–11.) 
 
Plaintiff in opposition to these arguments submits her own
declaration, taking issue with aspects of Defendant’s evidentiary presentation.
First, Plaintiff states that her early departures from work were for medical
appointments, and that she made up any time lost at home or on weekends, per an
express agreement with her manager. (Tea Decl. ¶¶ 16–17.) Plaintiff claims
that it was widely known that Boeing was trying to “do away with long-term
older workers,” but provides no foundation for this position, save the
promulgation of an early-retirement plan. (Tea Decl. ¶ 29.) Plaintiff takes
issue with Defendants’ investigation relying on the login records for her work
laptop, when Plaintiff contends that much of her work was conducted on a personal
computer. (Tea Decl. ¶ 33.) Plaintiff denies the existence of any work policy
prohibiting the performance of work on personal computers, and contends that
her termination for irregular ETS entries violates the progressive discipline
matrix promulgated by Boeing. (Tea Decl. ¶¶ 35–39.) Plaintiff claims that her
manager “made statements to me that made me feel that Boeing would have liked
to get me to retire early,” and further that he “made me feel that I was being
harassed based on my Asian American ethnicity” because “I was left out of
certain office activities and meetings.” (Tea Decl. ¶¶ 54–55.) 
 
Defendants have established the absence of triable issues of
fact as to all of Plaintiff’s FEHA causes of action, as they have shown the
absence of evidence that any action or harassment taken against Plaintiff based
on any protected characteristic or activity. To make a prima facie case, a FEHA
Plaintiff must show that an adverse employment action was taken against them
under circumstances suggestive of a discriminatory or retaliatory motive. (See Dinslage, supra, 5 Cal.App.5th at p. 378; Moore, supra, 248 Cal.App.4th at p. 244.) Here, Plaintiff
simply has no evidence that any decisionmaker in her termination was motivated
by age, race, or her taking of intermittent leave. At her deposition, she could
recall no comments made about her regarding any protected characteristics or actions.
Plaintiff in her declaration supplies only the information that Boeing at some
point promulgated an early retirement plan, and that her manager at some point
made unspecified statements that made her “feel that Boeing would have liked to
get me to retire early.” (Tea Decl. ¶ 54.) Plaintiff does not supply the
objective circumstances of these statements, and in any event, her manager had
no role in making the decision to terminate her employment. Plaintiff simply
has no evidence of discriminatory or retaliatory animus.
 
Plaintiff’s
opposition memorandum and separate statement are replete with argument to the
effect that her discovery has not yet concluded, or that Defendants have not
provided discovery regarding pertinent issues. (Opposition at pp. 4, 11.) These
arguments are bereft of any citation, whether to Plaintiff’s own discovery
efforts or Defendants’ responses thereto. Plaintiff filed her complaint in
December 2021, and Defendants answered in February 2022. Plaintiff does not
explain why, as of the date of filing the opposition in November 2023, she
lacks evidence to support her claims. The just inference to draw from such a
showing is that no such evidence exists.
 
Plaintiff’s
claims based on harassment fail for a similar reason. The only harassment that
Plaintiff has identified came from her manager, Downey, whom she claimed had
asked her to let him or her co-workers know when she was away from her desk,
and who called her coworkers to ask her whereabouts when she was away from her
desk. (PUMF No. 86.) Plaintiff also claims that Downey did not invite her to a
staff meeting. (PUMF No. 93.) But Plaintiff had no explanation as to why she
believed these actions were motivated by any form of discriminatory animus,
stating her basis was “just the vibe that I get from him.” (PUMF No. 87, 95.) Moreover,
the aggregate of incidents that Plaintiff describes are neither severe nor
pervasive, as must support a claim for FEHA harassment. (Dee, supra,
106 Cal.App.4th at p. 35.) 
Plaintiff’s reasonable accommodation
and interactive process claims also fail. An element of a reasonable
accommodation claim is that the defendant “ailed reasonably to accommodate [the
plaintiff’s] disability.” (Brown v. Los Angeles Unified School District
(2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 1092, 1107.) And to prevail on an interactive process
claim, the plaintiff must “must identify a reasonable accommodation that would
have been available at the time the interactive process should have occurred.” (Scotch
v. Art Institute of California (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 986, 1018.) Here,
Plaintiff does not dispute that Boeing approved each request for intermittent
leave that Plaintiff made. (PUMF No. 11.) Plaintiff makes no argument in
opposition to support either claim. 
Finally, Plaintiff’s claim based on the failure to pay
final wages also fail. The tenth cause of action for violation of Labor Code §§
201, 202, and 218 is based on Defendants’ failure to pay “[t]he severance pay
Plaintiff was entitled to.” (Complaint ¶ 143.) But Plaintiff has never seen and
could not describe at deposition any such policy. (PUMF No. 106–108.) Boeing
has no severance plan for employees terminated for violating company policy.
(PUMF No. 109.) Plaintiff makes no argument in opposition to support this
claim.
As Plaintiff’s claims under FEHA and the Labor Code fail,
so to do her derivative claims for wrongful termination and violation of the
Unfair Competition Law.
The motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.
 
 


