  Case Number:  20STCV42444    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  61  
Plaintiff Gergis R.
Ghobrial, M.D.’s Motion to Compel Compliance with Subpoena from Rachel Hight,
M.D. is DENIED. Sanctions are ordered against Plaintiff in the amount of
$3,082.00. Plaintiff’s deposition of Hight shall be limited to (1) establishing
Hight’s background, job title, and position with Defendants during late 2019
and early 2020, (2) the extent to which Hight was expected to receive and/or
handle complaints raised by employees of SAMG, ACS, and/or LBMMC, (3) any
policies regarding Hight’s handling of such complaints, (4) Hight’s knowledge
of complaints raised by Ghobrial regarding patient care, discrimination towards
Ghobrial or others who shared his background, or harassment of Ghobrial, (5)
Hight’s handling and/or communication of any such complaints, and (6) Hight’s
knowledge of the circumstances surrounding Ghobrial’s termination or separation
from Defendants during late 2019 and early 2020.
 
Defendants to give notice.
 
I.               
MOTION TO
COMPEL DEPOSITION SUBPOENA
“If a subpoena requires the attendance of a
witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 1987.1, subd. (a).) A party may bring a motion under this section.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 1987.1, subd. (b)(1).)
 
Plaintiff Gergis Ghobrial (Plaintiff) moves
to compel the deposition of nonparty Rachel Hight pursuant to a subpoena issued
on August 9, 2023. (Ghobrial Decl. Exh. B.) That subpoena noticed the
deposition to take place on September 20, 2023. (Ibid.)  
 
A prior subpoena had evidently been served on
July 21, 2023. (Ghobrial Decl. Exh. E.) Plaintiff claims to have withdrawn the
subpoena and issued the current subpoena based on the protests of Defendants’
counsel regarding a “scheduling conflict.” (Motion at p. 5; Ghobrial Exh. F.)
Plaintiff presents no correspondence from Defendant contesting the scheduling
of this first subpoena, however. The correspondence presented by Defendants
Surgical Affiliates Management Group, Inc., Acute Care Surgery Medical Group,
Inc., Wei Loong Koh, M.D., and Lynette A. Scherer, M.D. (Defendants) suggests
that the first subpoena was withdrawn because Plaintiff did not personally
serve it upon Hight. (Opposition Exh. C.) In any case, there is no indication
that Defendants had identified September 20 as a potential date for deposition
before Plaintiff set the deposition to take place thereon. 
 
Defendants notified Plaintiff that Hight was
not available on the noticed date in an email of August 29, 2023, stating that
she had a trip scheduled from September 19–22. (Opposition Exh. C.) Defendants
requested alternate dates, and also asked Plaintiff to provide an explanation
of the relevance of Hight’s testimony in relation to his claims. (Ibid.)

 
Plaintiff responded on August 30, stating
that he had “taken note of Dr. Hight’s unavailability” and “rescheduled her
deposition for September 18, 2023.” (Opposition Exh. C.) No one, however,
appears to have offered September 18 as a date of availability. Plaintiff
explained the relevance of Hight’s testimony has follows:
 
Dr. Hight's role as the acute care and trauma
medical director during my tenure with
ACSMG/SAMGI makes her a significant witness
who possesses first-hand knowledge of many aspects of my complaint. The
delineated responsibilities specified within Cal. Code Regs. tit. 22 §
100259[a] correspond closely with the core areas of concern I've raised. Her
direct interactions with me, as well as her role as a recipient of my concerns,
position her as a relevant witness. Moreover, her role as a trauma medical
director ensures her personal knowledge of matters surrounding trauma center
staffing, performance evaluations, and protocols concerning patient care.
 
(Opposition Exh. C.)
 
Defendants responded
that they would need to confirm Hight’s availability on the 18th,
and asked Plaintiff to “please prepare a deposition subpoena for Dr. Hight
which includes the finalized date and time” once availability for a date was
confirmed, since “[a]n informal statement in an email . . . does not provide
sufficient notice of the deposition, and can cause confusion or uncertainty as
to whether the deposition has been set and finalized.” (Ibid.) The email
continued, “Please let us know if there are particular reasons that you do not
wish to formally serve an amended subpoena; I can see if there is something we
can do on our end to address that concern.” (Ibid.) The next day,
Defendants confirmed that Hight was not available on September 18th,
asked for alternative dates, and asked Plaintiff to “confirm[] deposition dates
before noticing them, since the date will have to work with multiple
schedules.” (Ibid.) 
 
Plaintiff responded on
September 1, 2023: “I’ve taken the step of rescheduling Dr. Hight’s deposition
for September 25, 2023.” (Opposition Exh. C.) Again, no evidence appears in the
correspondence that any party had previously offered this as a potential date
of availability, or that Plaintiff’s “rescheduling” consisted of anything more
than the email itself.  Plaintiff confirmed,
in fact, “I will not be issuing a new subpoena in conjunction with this
rescheduled date. I’d like to emphasize the time constraints we are currently
facing. With the trial rapidly approaching, we have a very short window of just
five months for discovery. Given this tight timeline, further scheduling
adjustments will not be feasible within the limited time available.”
(Opposition Exh. C.) Plaintiff stated that Defendants themselves had not
offered “specific alternate dates,” and argued that more time than necessary had
been provided between the notice of the subpoena and the deposition, to give
Defendants time to prepare. (Ibid.)
 
On September 12,
Defendants confirmed Hight’s availability for September 25. Their email asked,
“Can you confirm that the deposition will be held on 9/25 at 11? Also, can you
send me a subpoena and Veritext confirmation that reflect the correct date?” (Ghobrial
Decl. Exh. G.)
 
Plaintiff responded on
September 14:
 
We
have duly noted that Dr. Hight has confirmed her availability for September 25,
as previously discussed in the emails from September 1. We understand her
unavailability on the initially noticed date of September 20, which was
indicated in our Notice and the Veritext confirmation.
 
Regrettably,
I must inform you that we are unable to accommodate your client's request to
reschedule the deposition from the originally noticed date of September 20 to
the requested date of September 25. The primary reason for our inability to
fulfill this request is the condition attached to it, specifically the
requirement for us to issue a new subpoena.
 
(Ghobrial Decl. Exh. G.)
Plaintiff stated that he would prefer to proceed on September 25 “without the
need for an additional subpoena,” since a subpoena would entail unspecified
“delays in the discovery process.” (Ibid.) 
 
Defendants responded
with an explanation for why they were asking Plaintiff to electronically serve
upon counsel a new subpoena with amended date/time/location information, as “it
is easy for something to fall through the cracks when there is not a formal or
final notice, and notification is buried in a lengthy email or contained in a
series of back-and-forth emails that might get overlooked, particularly if
assistants are not copied on a particular email.” (Ghobrial Decl. Exh. G.) The
email continued, “I hope that is a fair approach. I will keep an eye out for an
accurate subpoena and confirmation. Thank you, and I will see you on the 25th.”
(Ibid.)
 
In an email dated
September 15, Plaintiff stated: “Your disagreement with removing the condition
of serving a new invalid subpoena with the updated date means that the date of
the deposition remains September 20, 2023, at 11 am. Unless your client agrees
to remove this unnecessary condition, we cannot change the date to accommodate
your client. If you agree to remove this condition, we will send a new Veritext
confirmation for the new date of the deposition to all parties.” (Ibid.)
 
On September 20,
Plaintiff emailed Defendants stating “we are waiting for you to sign on the
remote deposition of Rachel Hight,” to which Defendants responded, “As I
mentioned many times, she is not available today. I can sign on to state that
for the record.” (Ibid.)
 
On September 21,
Defendants inquired whether Plaintiff intended to depose Hight on September 25,
since no subpoena or other confirmation had yet been served. (Opposition Exh.
D.) They reported that High had a “hard stop at 3 p.m.” on the 25th,
but offered to “provide some available dates in October for her deposition.”
(Opposition Exh. D.) September 25 passed without a deposition, and on September
27, Defendants offered October 11, 12, 24, 25, and 30 for deposition dates. (Ibid.)
Plaintiff filed the present motion on November 14, 2023. 
 
Plaintiff’s motion is
without merit, and sanctions are properly imposed against him under Code of
Civil Procedure § 1987.2. The evidence reflects that Plaintiff unilaterally set
the date of deposition for September 20, a date he reached without prior
consultation with the other participants, and for which he knew the deponent was
unavailable. He thereafter refused to reschedule to another date because he did
not want to serve an amended notice reflecting new information, for reasons he
refuses to clarify.
 
 Plaintiff frames Defendants’ request for an
amended subpoena as a “condition” for a rescheduled deposition, which he claims
was unnecessary since Code of Civil Procedure § 1985.1 allows parties to agree
to a different time than stated in the notice. (Reply at p. 4.) The difficulty
with this argument is that the Defendants never “conditioned” Hight’s
appearance upon the proffering of a new subpoena — they simply asked him to
provide one. Indeed, they offered to assist Plaintiff in this task, agreed to
waive the requirement of personal service, and repeated their intent to appear
for deposition on September 25. In response, Plaintiff cancelled the deposition
scheduled for the date that he and Defendants had agreed, reset it for a date
he knew Hight could not appear, and brought the present motion, seeking an
order of contempt and $2,177.00 in sanctions. (Motion at p. 6.)[1]
This was unwise.
 
To the extent an order
regarding this subpoena is appropriate, it is properly directed against Plaintiff.
Defendants seek monetary sanctions, an order limiting the subject matter of
Hight’s deposition, the appointment of a discovery referee, and the setting of
an OSC regarding whether Plaintiff should be named a vexatious litigant.
(Opposition at pp. 17–20.) The first and second of these remedies are
appropriate here. A court may impose monetary sanctions against a party who
unsuccessfully brings a motion to compel compliance with a subpoena if the
motion was made in bad faith or without substantial justification. (Code Civ.
Proc. § 1987.2, subd. (a).) Defendants here seek $3,082.00 in sanctions,
representing 13 hours of attorney work at $268 per hour. (Weatherup Decl. ¶
42.) These sanctions are justly awarded against Plaintiff here.
 
Moreover, Plaintiff has
also indicated an intent to take Hight’s deposition on a broad subject area,
encompassing not merely the employment claims raised in this action, but also
the underlying wrongdoing alleged in his workplace complaints, for which he
allegedly suffered retaliation. (Opposition Exh. C, August 30 Email.) But the underlying
truth or falsity of Plaintiff’s workplace complaints are not at issue in this
litigation. They are relevant only to the extent that that Plaintiff possessed
“reasonably based suspicions” of illegal activity (McVeigh v. Recology San Francisco (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 443, 469), or if knowledge thereof
formed part of Defendants’ “retaliatory intent.” (Lawson v. PPG Architectural
Finishes, Inc. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 703, 713.) Plaintiff’s
claims necessarily relate to employment actions directed to him, not the
underlying misconduct directed to patients that he alleged in his workplace
complaints. 
 
Defendants have
presented a reasonable limit on the scope of the deposition to be taken as to
Hight here, commensurate with Plaintiff’s allegations. Plaintiff’s deposition
of Hight would be limited to “(1) establishing Hight’s background, job title,
and position with Defendants during late 2019 and early 2020, (2) the extent to
which Hight was expected to receive and/or handle complaints raised by
employees of SAMG, ACS, and/or LBMMC, (3) any policies regarding Hight’s
handling of such complaints, (4) Hight’s knowledge of complaints raised by
Ghobrial regarding patient care, discrimination towards Ghobrial or others who
shared his background, or harassment of Ghobrial, (5) Hight’s handling and/or
communication of any such complaints, and (6) Hight’s knowledge of the
circumstances surrounding Ghobrial’s termination or separation from Defendants
during late 2019 and early 2020.” (Opposition at p. 18.) Plaintiff in reply
makes no argument supporting the scope of deposition sought in his
correspondence, or against the limitations proposed in Defendant’s opposition.
 
The motion is therefore
DENIED. Sanctions are ordered against Plaintiff in the amount of $3,082.00.
Plaintiff’s deposition of Hight shall be limited to (1) establishing Hight’s
background, job title, and position with Defendants during late 2019 and early
2020, (2) the extent to which Hight was expected to receive and/or handle
complaints raised by employees of SAMG, ACS, and/or LBMMC, (3) any policies
regarding Hight’s handling of such complaints, (4) Hight’s knowledge of complaints
raised by Ghobrial regarding patient care, discrimination towards Ghobrial or
others who shared his background, or harassment of Ghobrial, (5) Hight’s
handling and/or communication of any such complaints, and (6) Hight’s knowledge
of the circumstances surrounding Ghobrial’s termination or separation from
Defendants during late 2019 and early 2020


