 Case Number:  23GDCV02180    Hearing Date:   July 19, 2024    Dept:  D TENATIVE RULINGCalendar:     3 Date:           7/19/2024   Case No: 23 GDCV02180 Trial Date: None Set Case Name: Soleimani, et al. v. Saint Francis High School of La Canada-Flintridge, et al. DEMURRER  Moving Party:             Defendants Saint Francis High School of LaCanada-Flintridge, Antonio Marti, Thomas Moran and John Jordan    Responding Party: Plaintiff James Soleimani    RELIEF REQUESTED:   Sustain demurrer to First Amended Complaint CAUSES OF ACTION:  from First Amended Complaint  1) Negligence  v.   All Defendants Other than Aidan 2) NIED  v.   All Defendants Other than Aidan 3) IIED  v.   Defendant Aidan 4) Battery  v.   Defendant Aidan SUMMARY OF FACTS:Plaintiff James Soleimani, who originally appeared in this action as a minor appearing through his GAL, Marta Recasens, evidently is no longer a minor and is appearing on his own behalf.  Plaintiff alleges that plaintiff enrolled at defendant Saint Francis High School of La Canada Flintridge (SFHS) in August of 2020, and that it was important to plaintiff and his family that plaintiff attend a Roman Catholic high school for various strongly held personal reasons.  Plaintiff alleges that he was particularly interested in playing organized football with the SFHS teams that participate in defendant California Interscholastic Federation (CIF) organized games against other CIF teams in the Southern California section of CIF.  Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, from early 2020 through May 2021, SFHS had no in-person instruction, and no active football program.  In June of 2021, plaintiff began attending SFHS’s football camp, and won a place on the Junior Varsity team.  Plaintiff alleges that in August of 2021, plaintiff suffered an injury to his shoulder during football practice, and was in October 2021 evaluated by a doctor and also diagnosed with a tear in the tendon of a finger and prescribed no PE or sports for two weeks.In October of 2021, plaintiff alleges that during the first half of a SFHS football game, plaintiff was on the sidelines due to his medical restrictions, wearing his football uniform but not wearing pads or a helmet, when defendant Aidan Austin (Aidan), a fellow student, while wearing his football helmet, aggressively accosted plaintiff verbally for not being tough enough to play through injuries.  Plaintiff alleges despite Aidan’s continual harassment, plaintiff did not engage in any physical retaliation against Aidan, but Aidan, with his helmet still on, butted plaintiff (who was not wearing a helmet) in the face repeatedly, injuring plaintiff.  Plaintiff alleges he did not fight back or do anything other than attempt to shield himself from Aidan’s criminal battery. Plaintiff alleges that no defendant took any significant disciplinary action against Aidan for the helmet assault, although it occurred in open view of hundreds of people, including one or more of the other defendants.  At halftime, Aidan, obviously undeterred by any defendants, hunted plaintiff down in the weight room and, unprovoked, put plaintiff in a choke hold and beat him repeatedly over the head.  Plaintiff alleges that the following day, upon receiving reports of Aidan’s unprovoked violence against plaintiff, defendant John Jordan, Dean of Students of SFHS, punished both of them equally, by suspending them both from Friday’s football game.  Plaintiff alleges that in November of 2021, Aidan again aggressively hunted plaintiff down in the locker room, threatened him, and proceeded to knee plaintiff in the groin, pulled plaintiff’s jacket over plaintiff’s head and repeatedly struck plaintiff in the head with a closed fist.  Plaintiff alleges that he did not fight back and sought only to shield himself, and the incident was videotaped and viewed by Jordan, which showed older players dancing and celebrating the assault.  It also documents that plaintiff never struck back.  Plaintiff alleges that again defendants responded by treating plaintiff and Aidan equally, as if both were equally culpable for Aidan’s unprovoked criminal attack, which defendants again did nothing to stop or prevent.      The complaint alleges that in mid-October, another SFHS student reported to plaintiff that the student had seen Aidan carrying a knife on campus, and warned plaintiff to stay away from Aidan because he was armed.  In the latter half of October, when plaintiff was intimidated and fearful of a knife armed Aidan again attacking him, plaintiff had a video-displayed SnapChat conversation with another SFHS student, in which the other student viewed, near plaintiff, an airsoft gun, and plaintiff made a joke about the airsoft gun being a real firearm. Plaintiff later clarified that it was not real and that he was joking.   Plaintiff alleges that in November of 2021, plaintiff and his mother, Marta Recasens, met with Jordan to discuss what Jordan claimed was his and SFHS’s investigation of the foregoing altercations and their aftermath.  Jordan informed them that Jordan had a grainy photo of a gun that plaintiff had supposedly displayed on social media, but never presented this image to plaintiff or Recasens.  Plaintiff alleges that during the investigation, Jordan did view the videotape where Aidan attacked plaintiff in the locker room, and interviewed other football players who informed him that plaintiff was being threatened and harassed by Aidan and that plaintiff feared for his life, but did not take proper measures to prevent, protect plaintiff or to properly punish Aidan, the aggressor.  Plaintiff alleges that plaintiff was under the authority of defendants as a student athlete who qualified to be in the football program and should have been afforded the protection of those authorities.  The day following the meeting with Jordan, plaintiff and Recasen met with SFHS’s Disciplinary Board, comprised of defendant Jordan, defendant Thomas Moran, Principal of SFHS, and six other individuals, in which plaintiff read a statement about the altercations and their aftermath, and admitted in his statement that within a week of Aidan’s most recent beating, plaintiff remembered having commented as a joke on social media that an airsoft gun the plaintiff owned was a real firearm.  Plaintiff alleges that he contritely admitted this joke as inappropriate and asked forgiveness.  Plaintiff was then expelled. Plaintiff alleges that had defendants acted more promptly in disciplining and either suspending or expelling Aidan prior to the last assault on plaintiff, plaintiff would not have been frightened and intimidated into joking that the airsoft gun was real, which joke led to plaintiff’s expulsion.    The First Amended Complaint alleges that plaintiff has been damaged as a result of his expulsion, including mental suffering, the loss of the companionship and society of teachers and friends at SFHS, and due to the disciplinary record created with the expulsion, finding it difficult to be accepted as a student at a comparable religious high school and, later, colleges.  Plaintiff also alleges that at the new high school in which plaintiff enrolled, he was not allowed to play football for one year due to CIF rules, despite being told by Jordan that no such disciplinary reasons statement would appear on plaintiff’s record.  In contrast, Aidan, who was not expelled but suspended, and transferred to a different school, was allowed to participate in football after only six months.  Plaintiff alleges that plaintiff appealed the expulsion ruling to CIF explaining the circumstances, but CIF would not change its decision. Plaintiff alleges that CIF failed to properly investigate the matter after it failed to protect plaintiff.   Plaintiff also alleges that prior to Aidan’s attacks, plaintiff had been an honor roll student, but his academic career was damaged when he failed courses because of the stress he endured from the bullying, beating and expulsion, that plaintiff’s football career was harmed as he was not able to play football for over a year, and that plaintiff as a result of the beatings and expulsion, suffers from post-traumatic stress disorder.  The FAC also names as defendant Antonio Marti, the President of SFHS.The FAC alleges that all defendants other than Aidan breached their duty of properly supervising Aidan to ensure that he did not bully or physically abuse plaintiff, and breached their duty by failing to suspend or expel Aidan when Aidan repeatedly battered plaintiff, and that CIF breached its duty to provide protection for plaintiff by not instituting rules and guidelines on bullying and breached its duty in not ensuring that Aidan received the same consequences as plaintiff.    The FAC alleges causes of action against Aidan only for IIED and battery. The file shows that on November 27, 2024, the moving defendants filed an Answer to the Complaint.   Defendant CIF filed a demurrer to the complaint, which was heard on April 12, 2024, and was sustained with leave to amend as to the first cause of action for negligence and second cause of action for NIED.  Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint on May 20, 2024.  Defendant CIF again filed a demurrer to the first and second causes of action of the FAC, which was heard on July 12, 2024.  The demurrer was sustained without leave to amend.   ANALYSIS:Procedural Untimely OppositionDefendants in the reply argue that the court should disregard the opposition papers because they were untimely. Under CCP §1005(b):“All papers opposing a motion…shall be filed with the court and a copy served on each party at least nine court days… before the hearing.”  Under CRC Rule 3.1300(d), “If the court, in its discretion, refuses to consider a late filed paper, the minutes or order must so indicate.”  Here, the opposition was filed and served on July 10, 2024 at 4:30 pm for a July 19, 2024 hearing date.  Nine court days before the hearing fell on July 8, 2024.  The opposition was accordingly filed and served two court days late.  This tardiness has been inconvenient for the court and the courtroom staff, and unfair to the moving parties who have been deprived of those court days within which to file a timely reply.  The court, in its discretion, could refuse to consider the untimely opposition, but the court elects not to do so.  The court will consider the opposition, only because defendants were able to file a timely reply.   However, plaintiff is cautioned that in the future the court may refuse to consider papers not filed in conformity with the statutes, rules and procedures governing this litigation. No Previous Demurrer  As noted above, the moving defendants did not previously file a demurrer to the original complaint, but filed an answer.  The FAC was only permitted to be filed because co-defendant CIF had successfully brought a demurrer to the original pleading, and plaintiff was permitted leave to amend. Under CCP § 430.41(b):“(b) A party demurring to a pleading that has been amended after a demurrer to an earlier version of the pleading was sustained shall not demur to any portion of the amended complaint, cross-complaint, or answer on grounds that could have been raised by demurrer to the earlier version of the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer.” The allegations against the moving defendants do not appear to have been significantly modified in the FAC, and it appears that the arguments now made by moving defendants could have been raised in connection with the original complaint, but were not.  The moving papers do not explain why a demurrer is now appropriate, when moving defendants did not previously argue that plaintiff’s pleading was insufficient.   The court will hear argument whether it should disregard the demurrer for failure to comply with CCP § 430.41(b). However, the court will consider the demurrer on its merits. Again, the parties are cautioned that the court in the future may refuse to consider pleadings not filed in conformity with the statutes, rules and procedures governing this litigation. Substantive First Cause of Action—Negligence and Second Cause of Action—NIED  Defendants Saint Francis High School (SFHS) and individual defendants Antonio Marti, Thomas Moran and John Jordan demur to the two causes of action brought against them for negligence and NIED, without a clear discussion of each cause of action.   Defendants argue that the FAC does not allege any facts showing that plaintiff has any viable negligence-based causes of action against defendants, as SFHS cannot be held liable for plaintiff’s own conduct which plaintiff admits in the FAC led to his expulsion.  Essentially, defendants seem to argue that defendants did not have a legal duty to plaintiff to protect plaintiff from his own poor choices.    The argument appears to be more specifically that plaintiff’s theory of liability against SFHS is too attenuated to create a duty on the part of SFHS.  To plead a claim for negligence, a plaintiff must allege the following elements: The existence of a duty of care, breach of that duty, and an injury proximately caused by the breach.   Ladd v. County of San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917.  Negligent infliction of emotional distress requires negligence and severe emotional disturbance.  Marlene F. v. Psychiatric Medical Clinic, Inc. (1989) 48 Cal.3d 583, 588.  To support a NIED claim here, plaintiff must have suffered damages as a result of a duty “assumed by the defendant or imposed on the defendant as a matter of law, or that arises out of a relationship between the two.”  Burgess v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 1064, 1073, quoting Marlene F., at 590. See also Potter v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal. 4th 965,  984-985  (“That duty may be imposed by law, be assumed by the defendant, or exist by virtue of a special relationship…”)It is recognized that the issue of whether a duty of care was owed is a question of law.  See Clarke v. Hoek (1985) 174 Cal.App.3d 208, 213 (“The question of the existence of a legal duty of care in a given factual situation presents a question of law which is to be determined by the courts alone.”). Garcia v. Paramount Citrus Association, Inc. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1448, 1452 (“The existence of a duty owed by a defendant to a plaintiff is a question of law for the court, reviewed de novo on appeal.”)Defendants argue that foreseeability is of primary importance in establishing the element of duty, and that no supervision is required where the school has no reason to think any is required.   Defendants argue that the allegations are too attenuated here that plaintiff made a joke about an airgun being a real firearm and had defendants acted more promptly in disciplining defendant Aidan prior to the last assault on plaintiff, plaintiff would not have made the comment about the gun which caused plaintiff to be expelled. The argument seems to be that defendants had no specific duty concerning preventing plaintiff from admitting he had made an improper representation concerning the airgun.  However, the duty and breaches of duty alleged in the pleading include various other conduct and wrongs which have nothing to do with this theory.   Specifically, the first cause of action alleges that defendants owed SFHS students a “duty to exercise reasonable care and to take reasonable steps to protect said students from bullying, including without limitation by (a) adequately supervising students to ensure that no bullying or other improper physical abuse by students occurs against other students, and (b) suspending or expelling other students who have engaged, even once, in battery of other students.”  [FAC, para.54].  The cause of action alleges that defendants “breached their duty by not properly supervising AIDAN to ensure that he did not bully and/or physically abuse Plaintiff.”  [FAC, para. 60].  It is also alleged that plaintiff was harmed including that his “mental state suffered,” and he “felt threatened” by Aidan.  [FAC, para. 62].  The general allegations include detailed allegations concerning three bullying batteries by Aidan against plaintiff.  The first two incidents defendants are alleged to have been clearly aware of, and defendants are alleged to have failed to properly investigate and act on those incidents, when there was video evidence showing that plaintiff had no responsibility for the encounters, and should not have been disciplined, and Aidan, as the aggressor, should have been disciplined more seriously.  [FAC, paras. 22-26; 31-34, 38].  Both sides rely on Leger v. Stockton Unified School Dist. (1988) 202 Cal.App.3d 1448, in which the court of appeal reversed the trial court’s sustaining of a demurrer without leave to amend to an amended complaint brought by a high school student against his school district and his high school’s principal and wrestling coach, alleging they had failed to protect him from an attack by a non-student in a high school restroom.  The court of appeal held:“In this case, we hold that the complaint of a high school student states a cause of action for damages against his school district and its employees. The complaint alleges employees of the district negligently failed to protect plaintiff Jaime Leger from an attack by a nonstudent in a school restroom, where they knew or reasonably should have known the restroom was unsafe and attacks by nonstudents were likely to occur.”Leger, at 1452-1453.  The court of appeal described the duty of care arising in the school setting as follows:“As a general rule, one owes no duty to control the conduct of another, nor to warn those endangered by such conduct. Such a duty may arise, however, if '(a) a special relation exists between the actor and the third person which imposes a duty upon the actor to control the third person's conduct, or (b) a special relation exists between the actor and the other which gives the other a right to protection.' (Rest. 2d Torts (1965) § 315; Thompson v. County of Alameda (1980) 27 Cal.3d 741, 751-752 [167 Cal.Rptr. 70, 614 P.2d 728]; Tarasoff v. Regents of University of California (1976) 17 Cal.3d 425 [131 Cal.Rptr. 14, 551 P.2d 334, 83 A.L.R.3d 1166].)” (Davidson v. City of Westminster (1982) 32 Cal.3d 197, 203 [185 Cal.Rptr. 252, 649 P.2d 894]; see also Lopez v. Southern Cal. Rapid Transit Dist. (1985) 40 Cal.3d 780, 788-789 [221 Cal.Rptr. 840, 710 P.2d 907]; Williams v. State of California, supra, 34 Cal.3d at p. 23.)In Rodriguez v. Inglewood Unified School Dist. (1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 707 [230 Cal.Rptr. 823], the court considered whether a school district could be held liable when a student was assaulted on campus by a nonstudent.  On the question of duty, the court concluded “that a special relationship is formed between a school district and its students so as to impose an affirmative duty on the district to take all reasonable steps to protect its students.” (P. 715.).Although Rodriguez did not address the question, we think it obvious that the individual school employees responsible for supervising plaintiff, such as the principal and the wrestling coach, also had a special relation with plaintiff upon which a duty of care may be founded. (See Tarasoff v. Regents of University of California, supra, 17 Cal.3d at p. 436.) A contrary conclusion would be wholly untenable in light of the fact that “the right of all students to a school environment fit for learning cannot be questioned. Attendance is mandatory and the aim of all schools is to teach. Teaching and learning cannot take place without the physical and mental well-being of the students. The school premises, in short, must be safe and welcoming. ... [¶] The public school setting is one in which governmental officials are directly in charge of children and their environs, including where they study, eat and play. ... Further, the responsibility of school officials for each of their charges, the children, is heightened as compared to the responsibility of the police for the public in general.” (In re William G. (1985) 40 Cal.3d 550, 563 [221 Cal.Rptr. 118, 709 P.2d 1287].)Rodriguez notwithstanding, defendants still contend they should owe no duty to protect plaintiff from this attack. They correctly contend that neither school districts nor their employees are the insurers of the safety of their students. (Dailey v. Los Angeles Unified Sch. Dist. (1970) 2 Cal.3d 741, 747 [87 Cal.Rptr. 376, 470 P.2d 360].) But plaintiff makes no assertion of strict liability; rather, the complaint pleads negligence. Defendants do owe plaintiff a duty to use the degree of care which a person of ordinary prudence, charged with comparable duties, would exercise in the same circumstances. (Ibid.)Of course, in the present circumstances, the existence of a duty of care depends in part on whether the harm to plaintiff was reasonably foreseeable. (See Isaacs v. Huntington Memorial Hospital (1985) 38 Cal.3d 112, 125 [211 Cal.Rptr. 356, 695 P.2d 653].) Neither schools nor their restrooms are dangerous places per se. (Cf. Peterson v. San Francisco Community College Dist., supra, 36 Cal.3d at p. 812.) Students are not at risk merely because they are at school. (See Chavez v. Tolleson Elementary School Dist. (1979) 122 Ariz. 472 [595 P.2d 1017, 1 A.L.R.4th 1099].) A contrary conclusion would unreasonably “require virtual round-the-clock supervision or prison-tight security for school premises, ...” (Bartell v. Palos Verdes Peninsula Sch. Dist. (1978) 83 Cal.App.3d 492, 500 [147 Cal.Rptr. 898].)Here, however, plaintiff's first amended complaint pled that defendants knew or should have known that he was subject to an unusual risk of harm at a specific location on school grounds. Thus, the complaint alleged defendants knew or should have known that members of the junior varsity wrestling team (including plaintiff) were changing clothes before wrestling practice in the unsupervised boys' restroom, that defendants knew or should have known the unsupervised restroom was unsafe for students, and that attacks were likely to occur there. These allegations sufficiently state that the harm to plaintiff was reasonably foreseeable in the absence of supervision or a warning. Plaintiff had no obligation to plead that prior acts of violence had occurred in the restroom. (See Isaacs v. Huntington Memorial Hospital, supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 129.) For example, school authorities who know of threats of violence that they believe are well-founded may not refrain from taking reasonable preventive measures simply because violence has yet to occur. (See id., at pp. 125-126.)Whether plaintiff can prove these allegations, or whether it will be difficult to prove them, are not appropriate questions for a reviewing court when ruling on a demurrer. (Concerned Citizens of Costa Mesa, Inc. v. 32nd Dist. Agricultural Assn. (1986) 42 Cal.3d 929, 936 [231 Cal.Rptr. 748, 727 P.2d 1029].)Leger, at 1458-1460.   The court of appeal also directly addressed the question of whether a private school, which is not a public school, is subject to a similar duty of care and concluded private schools have such a duty:“As a general rule, it has been held that a [private] school is not required to provide constant supervision over pupils at all times. Thus, no supervision is required where the school has no reason to think any is required. ... It appears that a [private] school has a duty to provide supervision with respect to a particular activity if the school officials could reasonably anticipate that supervision was required ....” (Annot., Tort Liability of Private Schools and Institutions of Higher Learning for Negligence of, or Lack of Supervision By, Teachers and Other Employees or Agents (1971) 38 A.L.R.3d 908, 916, fns. omitted; italics added.)“Where a student is injured in performing a task on the direction of school authorities without supervision, the question of [private] school negligence is one for the jury if there is evidence of the existence of a danger known to the school authorities, who neglect to guard the student against such danger, or if there is an unknown danger which the school, by the exercise of ordinary care as a reasonably prudent person, would have discovered.” (38 A.L.R.3d at p. 919, fn. omitted.) “Where the liability of the [private] school is sought to be predicated on alleged negligence of teachers or other employees or agents of the school, it is generally recognized that liability on the part of the school may be established under the doctrine of respondeat superior if negligence within the scope of their employment is shown.” (38 A.L.R.3d at p. 912.).”Leger, at 1461-1462 Overall, the FAC here similarly alleges breaches of a duty of supervision of students, in this case an actual student as opposed to a non-student, and circumstances showing that the school was aware of violent behavior by the student against plaintiff, but failed to appropriately investigate, or appropriately discipline the aggressor, or take steps to monitor the locker room or promptly review and act on videotapes of incidents of assault, so that subsequent attacks are appropriately viewed as foreseeable.  [FAC, paras. 22-26, 31-34, 38].  A negligence claim against SFHS is alleged on at least one valid recognized theory in the very case law cited by defendants, which is sufficient to withstand demurrer.  Specifically, to the extent defendants focus on the expulsion aspect of the causes of action, this goes to only part of the causes of action, and the court may not sustain a demurrer to only part of a cause of action. A demurrer does not lie to only part of a cause of action (or to a particular type of damage or remedy), and a cause will survive demurrer if there are sufficient allegations that might entitle the pleader to relief.  Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelop. Agency (2003, 2nd Dist.) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046; PH II, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1680, 1682.   The demurrer accordingly is overruled on this ground.  Defendants also seem to argue that because plaintiff did not report the November 5, 2021 incident involving Aidan, the school had no awareness of the incident until later, so there was no foreseeability. However, as pointed out in the opposition, and discussed above, the FAC alleges in some depth that defendants were aware of previous incidents between these very two students, and failed to appropriately investigate and determine that Aidan had been the aggressor and was routinely threatening and assaulting plaintiff.  It is alleged that during the investigation, defendant Dean of Students Jordan interviewed other football players who informed him that plaintiff was being threatened and harassed by Aidan and that plaintiff feared for his life, but did not take proper measures to prevent, protect plaintiff or to properly punish Aidan, the aggressor. [FAC, paras. 22-26; 31-34, 38]. This showing is sufficient to allege facts supporting foreseeability.  In fact, in Leger, the court of appeal observed that plaintiff in that case had no obligation to plead prior acts of violence had occurred, as “school authorities who know of threats of violence that they believe are well-founded may not refrain from taking reasonable preventive measure simply because violence has yet to occur.”  Leger, at 1460.  Here, previous acts of violence itself were known to defendants. The claim is sufficiently pleaded.  The individual defendants argue that the demurrer should be sustained as to these parties because they were acting as directors or officers of the religious corporation which runs SFHS, acting while discharging their duties as agents or employees of the school.  Defendants rely on general agency law, not cases involving schools, and concede that tort liability can be imposed on agents where acts constitute a breach of duty owed to the third person.  As pointed out in the opposition, there is case law under which a special relationship is recognized between individual school employees and students such that a school employee may be individually responsible for a breach of duties arising pursuant to that relationship.  See Leger, 1458-1459 (“we think it obvious that the individual school employees responsible for supervising plaintiff, such as the principal and the wrestling coach, also had a special relation with plaintiff upon which a duty of care may be founded.”)    Here, with respect to the individual defendants, it is alleged that defendant John Jordan, the Dean of Students, was directly involved in handling the alleged incidents of aggression between plaintiff and Aidan, and failed to properly investigate, failed to view available evidence, or failed to act on it once he viewed it, and failed to properly supervise and discipline in connection with harassment and threats of violence.   [FAC, paras. 6, 26, 33, 38, 40, 43].  This showing is sufficient to withstand demurrer. Similarly, defendant Thomas Moran is alleged to have been principal of SFHS, to have participated in the Disciplinary Board meeting, and to have written a letter to plaintiff’s mother improperly blaming plaintiff for not reporting the incidents, two of which the school was in fact aware, and admitting that video of the locker room incident had been available and viewed by Jordan.  [FAC, paras. 5, 40, 43].  This showing is sufficient to allege a claim against this defendant. Defendants in reply argue that this is a private religious school, not a public school as was the case in authorities cited by plaintiff.  However, defendants themselves rely on Leger, which involved a private school, and recognized duties owed based on special relationships with students in the school setting. As noted in Leger, where the liability specifically of a “private” school “is sought to be predicated on alleged negligence of teachers or other employees or agents of the school, it is generally recognized that liability on the part of the school may be established under the doctrine of respondeat superior if negligence within the scope of their employment is shown.” Leger, at 1462, quoting 38 A.L.R.3d at p. 912.The demurrer by defendants Jordan and Moran accordingly is overruled.However, it does not appear that any negligence or wrongful conduct is clearly alleged on the part of defendant Antonio Marti, other than that Marti was the president of SFHS, and vaguely, “directly involved in the underlying events as alleged herein.” [FAC, para. 4].  He is not identified by name in any other part of the FAC.    The opposition does not separately address this named defendant, instead arguing that the FAC alleges that each of the individual defendants had a duty to plaintiff which was breached, as they were present during the expulsion proceeding and in a position to stop the attacks on plaintiff by Aidan.  It is not alleged that this defendant was present at the hearing, or how defendant Marti was in a position to stop the attacks on plaintiff.  The demurrer as to this defendant only accordingly is sustained.  Since this is the first challenge to the pleading by this defendant, the demurrer is sustained with one opportunity to amend,  if appropriate, to more clearly allege the alleged negligent conduct engaged in by defendant Marti. The opposition discusses at some length that defendants discriminated against plaintiff with their disparate handling of the situations before defendants.   There is no cause of action alleged for discrimination.  The current causes of action against the moving defendants are for negligence and NIED.  To the extent the opposition seeks leave to amend to expand the disparate treatment and discrimination claims, such leave will not be granted.  If plaintiff finds it appropriate to pursue new causes of action, or otherwise amend the pleading,  plaintiff must appropriately seek and obtain advance leave of court to do so.  RULING:Saint Francis High School of LaCanada-Flintridge, Antonio Marti, Thomas Moran and John Jordan’s Demurrer to First Amended Complaint:The Court in its discretion has reluctantly considered the untimely opposition to the demurrer, filed and served two court days late, only seven court days prior to the hearing.  Plaintiff is cautioned that in the future the Court may refuse to consider pleadings not filed in conformity with the statutes, rules and procedures governing this litigation. The Court in its discretion has also reluctantly considered the demurrer itself, which was filed in violation of CCP § 430.41(b).  Defendants are cautioned that in the future the Court may refuse to consider pleadings not filed in conformity with the statutes, rules and procedures governing this litigation. Demurrer by defendants Saint Francis High School of LaCanada-Flintridge, Thomas Moran, and John Jordan is OVERRULED. Demurrer by defendant Antonio Marti is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND on the ground there are insufficient allegations of any conduct on the part of this defendant in support of a negligence claim.   Ten days leave to amend only to assert negligent conduct on the part of defendant Antonio Marti, if possible. Plaintiff is not permitted to amend to add new causes of action, or to make further allegations against any of the other defendants without obtaining advance leave of court to do so.  DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 