  Case Number:  23VECV00354    Hearing Date:   February 7, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




 
ANTRANIG KHATCHIG OHANNESSIAN, 
Plaintiff.
 
   v.
 
LEGACY PARTNERS, LLC, et al.,
Defendants.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
    23VECV00354                  107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: Demurrer to First Amended
  Complaint
                  



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: 
 
[Tentative] Ruling



Sustained
  with Leave to Amend.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
A. Factual
 
The
  following factual background is drawn from the FAC (as defined below). Plaintiff
  Antranig Khatchig Ohannessian (“Plaintiff”) is the lessee and resident of a
  unit in a residential apartment complex (the “Premises”) owned and/or managed
  by the defendants, Legacy Partners, LLC (“Legacy Partners”), 6041 Variel, LLC
  (“6041 Variel”), 6041 Variel Managing Member, LLC (“Managing Member” and,
  collectively with Legacy Partners and 6041 Variel, the “Answering Parties”),
  and BCEGI, LLC (“Moving Party” and, collectively with Legacy Partners, 6041
  Variel, and Managing Member, “Defendants” and, each, a “Defendant”). All of
  Plaintiff’s claims arise from incidents that occurred on the Premises.
  Plaintiff complained repeatedly to his building manager and other employees
  of Legacy Partners about, among other things, other tenants’ loud pool
  parties; animal waste and noise; the condition and maintenance of Plaintiff’s
  unit; and harassment, discrimination, “gossip,” and antisemitic behavior
  perpetrated against him by other tenants and employees of Defendants, but Legacy
  Partners did not adequately resolve Plaintiff’s complaints. Instead,
  employees of Legacy Partners actively ignored Plaintiff’s complaints,
  encouraged him to vacate the Premises, and retaliated against Plaintiff
  through “confrontational communication and/or disregard, and hostile
  intimidating acts.” Plaintiff thereby suffered emotional harm and incurred
  costs in mitigation efforts.
 
B. Procedural
 
On
  January 26, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint (the “Complaint”) against
  Defendants. On March 27, 2023, three of Defendants, the Answering Parties, answered
  the complaint. On May 5, 2023, the remaining Defendant, the Moving Party,
  filed a demurrer. Plaintiff opposed, but on July 18, 2023, this court
  sustained the demurrer with leave to amend.
 
On
  October 5, 2023, Plaintiff filed an amended complaint (the “FAC”) against
  Defendants pleading six causes of action: (1) tortuous breach of the warranty
  of habitability, (2) breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment, (3) nuisance,
  (4) Business & Professions Code § 17200 et seq., (5) negligence, and
  (6) breach of contract. On October 31, 2023, the Answering Parties filed an
  answer. On November 27, 2023, the Moving Party filed a demurrer (the
  “Demurrer”) without a motion to strike. On January 22, 2024, Plaintiff
  opposed (via the “Opposition”) the Demurrer. On January 31, 2024, the Moving
  Party replied to the Opposition.
 
II. MEET AND CONFER REQUIREMENT
            
Cal. C.
  Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a) requires parties to “meet and confer” in good
  faith before the filing of a demurrer to attempt to informally resolve the
  objections raised in the demurrer. The Moving Party’s attorney submits with
  the Demurrer a declaration that he and Plaintiff’s attorney were unable to
  satisfy this requirement because Plaintiff’s attorney did not respond to his
  requests for such. This is the second time Plaintiff’s attorney has ignored
  the Moving Party’s attorney’s attempts to meet and confer before the filing
  of a demurrer in this case. (See Alvarez Decl. p. 1.) We remind
  parties of their obligations to meet and confer with each other in good
  faith.
            
III. ANALYSIS
 
The Demurrer
 
The
  Moving Party’s Grounds for the Demurrer
 
The
  Moving Party demurs to the FAC’s first, third, fourth, and fifth causes of
  action, all on the grounds that they are “uncertain, ambiguous,
  unintelligible, and fail to state facts sufficient to provide adequate notice
  of the specific allegations against [the Moving Party].” (Notice of Demurrer
  pp. 1–2.) The FAC’s second and sixth causes of action are made only
  against 6041 Variel and not against the Moving Party.
 
The
  Moving Party “has no idea” which allegations of the FAC are made specifically
  against it as opposed to the other Defendants, in part because of grammatical
  errors and inconsistent capitalization and pluralization of the word “defendant(s)”
  in the FAC, and denies that the FAC provides enough clarity for the Moving
  Party to “know why it is named as a Defendant in this suit.” (Demurrer
  p. 5.) 
 
            Demurrers Generally
 
As a
  general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the
  face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
  116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not
  the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab,
  Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs.
  (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of
  the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The only issue a demurrer is
  concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of
  action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
 
Where a
  demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a
  reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on
  the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully.
  (Ibid.; Lewis v. YouTube, LLC
  (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f there is any reasonable
  possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it is error
  to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245.)
 
            The FAC Generally
 
The FAC
  identifies the Moving Party as one of the “owners or stakeholders of the
  [Premises], getting monies and or assets from the running and operations of
  the [Premises].” (FAC ¶ 6.) In the same sentence, the FAC continues,
  “this defendant at all material times managed and controlled [t]he
  [Premises],” a pluralization inconsistency that makes it unclear if that
  management and control of the Premises is alleged of the Moving Party, another
  Defendant, or multiple Defendants, including or excluding the Moving Party. (Ibid.)
  The FAC makes no other specific mention of the Moving Party, though it does
  make general allegations about all Defendants. Notably, Plaintiff alleges
  that “all[] Defendants are or should be aware of these ongoing concerns and
  complaints, and have decided to intentionally disregard him, and the
  [Premises]….” (FAC ¶ 33.) The FAC makes factual allegations against the
  Moving Party’s co-defendant Legacy Partners, whom it identifies as the
  “active onsite manager” of the Premises, and its agents, but the FAC does not
  allege any relationship between Legacy Partners and the Moving Party. (Id.
  at ¶ 5.) Plaintiff attaches to the FAC a copy of a lease (the “Lease”)
  between himself as tenant and 6041 Variel as landlord. (FAC Unmarked
  Exhibit.) The Lease identifies Legacy Partners as the property manager and is
  signed by Plaintiff and by Gheeta Sethi, whom the FAC identifies as an agent
  of Legacy Partners. (FAC ¶ 17, Unmarked Exhibit.) Thus, nowhere in the
  FAC does Plaintiff allege that the Moving Party is his landlord or the
  Premises’ property manager, nor does Plaintiff allege that the Moving Party
  is related to his landlord of the Premises’ property manager.
 
The FAC
  does not cite any legal authorities for its causes of action.
 
            The FAC’s First Cause of Action
  for Tortuous Breach of the Warranty of Habitability
 
California’s
  residential habitability standard is set out in Cal. Civ. C. § 1941.1. (See
  also Stoiber v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 922–25.) Additionally,
  breach of an implied warranty of habitability for residential leases was
  recognized as an affirmative defense to an unlawful detainer action in Green
  v. Superior Court (1974) 10 Cal.3d 616, 629 and as a cause of action in
  tort against a landlord in Stoiber v. Honeychuck, supra, at 918–19.
  
 
Plaintiff
  alleges that his unit lacked sufficient insulation and sound dampening and
  was not maintained in accordance with Cal. Civ. C. § 1941.1(a)(6), and
  that Legacy Partners had notice of these deficiencies. As noted above, the
  FAC also alleges that all Defendants possessed actual or constructive
  knowledge of all of Plaintiff’s complaints. However, knowledge of breaches of
  the warranty of habitability cannot create liability for third parties to a
  lease. Plaintiff has not alleged that the Moving Party is party to the lease,
  nor that the Moving Party is his landlord, nor that the Moving Party owed
  Plaintiff any duty under statute or the implied warranty of habitability to ensure
  his unit’s habitability. Thus, the FAC does not plead facts sufficient to
  show a cause of action for tortious breach of the warranty of habitability
  against the Moving Party.
 
Accordingly,
  this court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the first cause of action as to the
  Moving Party.
The FAC’s
  Third Cause of Action for Nuisance
 
Plaintiffs
  may bring claims for private nuisance as defined in Cal. Civ. C. § 3479
  per Cal. Civ. C. § 3501(1). (Adams v. MHC Colony Park, L.P.
  (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 601, 610.) San Diego Gas & Electric Co. v. San
  Diego Regional Water Quality Control Bd. establishes the elements to a
  private nuisance cause of action and notes that “[t]he conduct necessary to
  make the actor liable for either a public or
  a private nuisance may consist of (a) an act; or (b) a failure
  to act under circumstances in which the actor is under a duty to take
  positive action to prevent or abate the interference with the public interest
  or the invasion of the private interest. A connecting element to
  the prohibited harm must be shown.” (San Diego Gas & Electric Co. v.
  San Diego Regional Water Quality Control Bd. (2019) 36 Cal.App.5th 427,
  436 (internal quote marks and citations omitted); Mendez v. Rancho
  Valencia Resort Partners, LLC (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 248, 262–63.) In other
  words, to establish a defendant’s liability for private nuisance, the
  plaintiff must show that the defendant caused the nuisance.
 
Here,
  again, Plaintiff pleads he was harmed by private nuisance on the Premises and
  that the Moving Party knew of Plaintiff’s harm and its causes, but Plaintiff
  does not plead any facts to establish that Moving Party caused or was
  otherwise responsible for that harm or its causes. Thus, the FAC does not
  plead facts sufficient to show a cause of action for nuisance against the
  Moving Party.
 
Accordingly,
  this court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the third cause of action as to the
  Moving Party.
 
The FAC’s
  Fourth Cause of Action for [Violation of] Bus. & Prof. C. § 17200 et
  seq.
 
Cal. Bus.
  & Prof. C. § 17200 et seq. relates to unfair business practices and
  relief thereunder may be sought by a private party pursuant to Cal. Bus.
  & Prof. C. § 17204, but “a private person has standing to sue only
  if he or she has suffered injury in fact and has lost money or property as a
  result of such unfair competition.” (Daro v. Superior Court (2007) 151
  Cal.App.4th 1079, 1097 (internal quote marks omitted).) “[A] private
  plaintiff's remedies are generally limited to injunctive relief and
  restitution.” (Kasky v. Nike, Inc. (2002) 27 Cal.4th 939, 950
  (internal quote marks omitted).)
 
Here,
  Plaintiff alleges that the Moving Party, among the other Defendants, engaged
  in unfair business practices related to its ownership and management of
  rental properties. However, Plaintiff does not allege any facts showing that
  the Moving Party’s unfair business practices are related to his injury.
  Plaintiff alleges no facts that support that injunctive relief or restitution
  could be appropriately sought from the Moving Party. Thus, the FAC does not
  plead facts sufficient to show a cause of action for unfair business
  practices against the Moving Party.
 
Accordingly,
  this court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the fourth cause of action as to the
  Moving Party.
 
The FAC’s
  Fifth Cause of Action for Negligence
 
“The elements of
  a cause of action for negligence are: duty; breach of duty; legal
  cause; and damages. The existence of a duty is the
  threshold element of a negligence cause of action.” (Friedman
  v. Merck & Co. (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 454, 463.)
 
The FAC
  alleges that “[a]s owners, operators and managers of [t]he [Premises], the
  Defendants… owed Plaintiff the duty to exercise reasonable care in the
  ownership, management and control of [t]he [Premises]. These duties owed by
  Defendants to exercise reasonable care include, but are not limited to: the
  duty to refrain from interfering with Plaintiff’s full use of and quiet
  enjoyment of their rented premises; the duty to comply with all applicable
  state and local laws governing Plaintiff’s rights as tenants; the duty to
  maintain Plaintiff’s premises in a safe, healthy and habitable condition for
  the entire term of Plaintiff’s tenancy and the duty to not obstruct
  Plaintiff’s full use and occupancy of their rented residences. Defendants, by
  the acts and omissions alleged above, so negligently and carelessly
  maintained, operated, and managed [t]he [Premises] as to breach the duties
  that they owed to Plaintiff.” (FAC ¶ 62–64.) Plaintiff alleges that the
  Moving Party owns the Premises but does not allege that the Moving Party
  manages, controls, maintains, or operates the Premises. Thus, while Plaintiff
  may allege broadly that the Moving Party owes Plaintiff a duty to exercise
  reasonable care in its ownership of the Premises, Plaintiff has not alleged
  any more particular duty than that nor any breach of the Moving Party’s duty.
  Thus, the FAC does not plead facts sufficient to show all the elements of a
  cause of action for negligence against the Moving Party.
 
Accordingly,
  this court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the fifth cause of action as to the
  Moving Party.
 
Leave to
  Amend
 
The FAC
  follows a prior demurrer, which this court sustained in its entirety with
  leave to amend, against the Plaintiff’s original Complaint by the Moving
  Party.
 
Leave to
  amend on a demurrer “must be granted if there is a reasonable possibility
  that the defect can be cured by amendment. (Lueras v. BAC Home Loans
  Servicing, LP (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 49, 69 (quoting City of Dinuba v.
  County of Tulare (2007) 41 Cal.4th 859, 865) (internal quote marks
  omitted).) 
 
Here, Plaintiff’s
  causes of action against the Moving Party generally fail because Plaintiff
  does not assert any connection between his complaints regarding management of
  the Premises and the Moving Party. In other words, the FAC does not raise any
  allegations that show the Moving Party is responsible for Plaintiff’s
  injuries and therefore the proper defendant in this case. Plaintiff broadly argues
  in the Opposition that the Moving Party’s status as a sophisticated real
  estate developer, combined with its ownership interest in the Premises,
  creates its liability for the Plaintiff’s causes of action. (Opposition p.
  3–4.) Plaintiff describes the Moving Party as “the owner, investor and
  otherwise a property manager of the [Premises] and [] thus both statutorily
  and theoretically responsible and liable for the substandard and illegal acts
  and conditions at the [Premises].” (Id. at 4.) 
 
It is at
  least possible that additional pled facts related to the Moving Party’s
  relationship to the Premises or to the other defendants could cure the
  defects of the FAC, so we grant leave to amend as to all causes of action
  demurred against here.
 
III. CONCLUSION
 


 



Accordingly,
the Demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 
 
Dated:  February 6, 2024                                             _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon. Eric Harmon
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court