 Case Number:  23STCV04240    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  14 (1)        Demurrer
 
            Defendants Framework,
Cohen, Alcantara, and Ezrachi now demur to the first, second, third, and tenth
causes of action in the FAC on the grounds that the facts alleged are
insufficient to support those causes of action, and are uncertain.
 
Decision
 
            Defendants’
Request for Judicial Notice is DENIED. The court need not take judicial notice
of the original complaint or the FAC to evaluate the sufficiency of the FAC.
 
            The
demurrer is SUSTAINED, with 10 days leave to amend.
 
First Cause of Action: Breach of Contract
 
            “’A cause
of action for damages for breach of contract is comprised of the following
elements: (1) the contract, (2) plaintiff's performance or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damages to
plaintiff.’ (Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc.
(1990) 222 C.A.3d
1371, 1388).” Rutherford Holdings, LLC v. Plaza Del Rey (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th
221, 228. 
 
“Further, the complaint must
indicate on its face whether the contract is written, oral, or implied by conduct. (Code
Civ.Proc., § 430.10, subd. (g).).”  Otworth v. Southern Pac. Transportation
Co. (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452, 458-459 (implicitly overruled on other
grounds as recognized by Miles v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Company
(2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 394, 401-402).
 
To plead a written contract, a
party must either (a) attach a copy of the contract to the complaint or (b)
plead all the material terms in a comprehensive and detailed manner. Heritage
Pacific Financial, LLC v. Monroy (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 972, 993.
 
Plaintiff attached a copy of the
contract to the original Complaint. It was, apparently inadvertently, not
attached to the FAC. 
 
Defense’s argument is that the document
attached as Exhibit A to the original Complaint is not enforceable because it
is not signed and does not contain specific terms. But the document is on
Defendant Framework’s letterhead and identifies Plaintiff by name and address.
It breaks down the work to be done by task, with an amount to be paid on
completion of each task. Defendants cite to no authority which suggests that
this document cannot be enforced against Defendant Framework as a contract.
 
Plaintiff needs to do two things in
her next amendment: (1) make sure to attach the document in question, and (2)
explain how the alleged contract can be enforced against Defendants Cohen,
Alcantara, and Ezrachi, who are not named as parties in the document.
 
Second Cause of Action: Negligent Hiring, Retention, and
Supervision
 
            “Actionable
negligence is traditionally regarded as involving the following: (a) a legal
duty to use due care; (b) a breach of such legal duty; (c) the breach as the
proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury.” Seo v. All-Makes Overhead
Doors (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1202.
 
            “[I]n
California, an employer can be held liable for negligent hiring if he knows the
employee is unfit, or has reason to believe the employee is unfit or fails to
use reasonable care to discover the employee's unfitness before hiring him.” Evan
F. v. Hughson United Methodist Church (1992) 8 Cal.App.4th 828,
843.
 
            The FAC
does not clearly allege that Defendants Framework, Cohen, Alcantara, and
Ezrachi had any knowledge of Defendant Amrusi’s unfitness before he disappeared.
Paragraphs 19 and 29 allege that Defendant Amrusi stole money from other
customers in the same manner, but they suggest that the con was simultaneous,
not sequential.
 
            Plaintiff
must clearly allege that the Defendants knew Amrusi was unfit before they hired
him, or at least before he was assigned to Plaintiff’s project. Plaintiff must
also allege some facts to show that the individual defendants were personally
involved in the decision to hire or keep Amrusi.
 
Third Cause of Action: Fraud
 
            The
elements of a cause of action for fraud are: (1) a false representation, actual
or implied, or concealment of a matter of fact material to the transaction
which defendant had a duty to disclose or defendant’s promise made without the
intention to perform; (2) defendant’s knowledge of the falsity; (3) defendant’s
intent to deceive; (4) plaintiff’s justifiable reliance thereon; and (5)
resulting damage to plaintiff. Mosier v. Southern
 Calif. Physicians Ins. Exchange (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th
1022, 1045. 
 
Fraud must be specifically pled,
and the particularity requirement necessitates the pleading of facts that “show
how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were
tendered.” Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73. The
purpose of the rules of fraud pleading is to inform the defendant and the court
of the specific grounds of the charge and enable them to evaluate it. See Chapman
v. Skype Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 217, 231.
 
            The fraud
alleged here is that Defendant Amrusi induced Plaintiff to pay the contractual
fees to him, based on the representation that he would then transmit the
payments to Framework. (FAC ¶¶ 34-41). Of course, this fraud was not committed
by any of the demurring Defendants. Plaintiff brings them into the claim on a
theory of respondeat superior.
 
            However,
respondeat superior can only apply to the tortfeasor’s employer. Plaintiff has
alleged no facts which would show that Defendants Cohen, Alcantara, and Ezrachi
were the employers of Defendant Amrusi. Only Defendant Framework was the
employer.
 
Tenth Cause of Action: Negligence
 
            This claim
is a carbon copy of the second cause of action. (Compare FAC ¶¶ 28-32 with
¶¶ 83-92). The factual allegations are the same. The legal theory is the
same – negligence. This second pleading of negligence adds nothing to the case by
way of fact or theory. This renders it subject to demurrer. See Holcomb v.
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 490, 501.
Plaintiff must combine the second and tenth causes of action into a single
claim.
 
Conclusion
 
            Plaintiff
has not attached the contract to the FAC. She has not properly differentiated
between Defendant Framework and Defendants Cohen, Alcantara, and Ezrachi. Nor
has she clearly alleged that any other Defendant knew that Amrusi was unfit
while he was working with Plaintiff. And her two negligence claims are
duplicative.
 
            Therefore, the
demurrer to the first, second, third, and tenth causes of action is SUSTAINED, with
10 days leave to amend.
 
(2)        Motion to
Strike
 
            Defendant
now moves this court for an order striking certain allegations from the second
cause of action in the FAC. Given the result above, the motion is TAKEN OFF-CALENDAR
as MOOT.