 Case Number:  23STCV14169    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  14 Instant Motion
            
Defendant
Blue Cross now moves this court for an order striking the punitive damages
allegations.
 
Decision
 
            The motion is DENIED. Defendant Blue Cross is to file its
Answer within 10 days.
 
Governing Statutes
 
            Civil Code
§ 3294 provides in relevant part as follows:
 
“(a) In an action for the breach of
an obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing
evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice,
the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the
sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.
 
(b) An employer shall not be liable
for damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the
employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the
employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or
safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the
damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.
With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious
disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice
must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the
corporation.
 
(c) As used in this section, the
following definitions shall apply:
(1) “Malice” means conduct which
is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.
(2) “Oppression” means despicable
conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard
of that person's rights.
(3)
“Fraud” means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a
material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the
defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or
otherwise causing injury.”
 
Discussion
 
Punitive damages are available where
an insurer improperly fails to pay covered claims, so long as the statutory
standard for those damages have been met. See Civil Code § 3294(a) & (c);
Moradi-Shalal v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Companies (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287,
304-305. “Unlike most other contracts for goods or services, an insurance
policy is characterized by elements of adhesion, public interest and fiduciary
responsibility.” Cates Construction, Inc. v. Talbot Partners (1999) 21
Cal.4th 28, 44.
 
In this case, Plaintiffs have pled
that Defendant failed to properly process their claim for two reasons: (1)
Defendant added new personnel in 2017, who made repeated errors of a similar
nature which Defendant’s management took no steps to correct, and (2) Defendant
failed to ensure that plans of the type Plaintiffs held would be properly
recognized by its data processing system, despite the warning of a previous
lawsuit. (Complaint ¶ 18). Should these allegations be proven, they would
be sufficient to show malice as defined in Civil Code § 3294(c)(1) –
conduct carried on with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights of
their policyholders. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Plaintiffs
have properly pled facts which, if proven, would support a claim for punitive
damages. The motion is therefore DENIED. Defendant Blue Cross is to file its
Answer within 10 days.