 Case Number:  22SMCV02220    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2023    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Seller Partner
LLC v. Scaling Group LLC, et al.
CASE NO.:                22SMCV02220
MOTION:                  Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel
HEARING DATE:   10/9/2023

 
Legal
Standard
 
The
court may order that an attorney be changed or substituted at any time before
or after judgment or final determination upon request by either client or
attorney and after notice from one to the other. (CCP §
284(2).) The attorney seeking to withdraw must take “reasonable steps to
avoid reasonably foreseeable prejudice to the rights of the client, including
giving due notice to the client, allowing time for employment of other
counsel.” (Cal. Rules of Prof. Conduct, 3-700(A)(2). See, e.g., Vann v.
Shilleh (1975) [holding withdrawal prejudicial where attorney
withdraw from the representation of defendant on the Friday before trial began
the following Monday].) “The determination whether to grant or deny a motion to
withdraw as counsel lies within the sound discretion of the trial court.” (Manfredi & Levine v. Superior Court
(1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1133.)  
 
An
application to be relieved as counsel must be made on Judicial Counsel Form
MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion), MC-052 (Declaration), and MC-053
(Proposed Order). (CRC 3.1362(a), (c), (e).) The
requisite forms must be served “on the client and on all parties that have
appeared in the case.” (CRC, 3.1362(d).)
When a client is served by mail, the attorney’s declaration must indicate that
the client’s address was confirmed within the last 30 days and how it was
confirmed. (Id.) If the attorney is
unable to confirm the client’s current address, the declaration must state the
reasonable efforts made within the last 30 days to obtain the client’s current
address. (Id.) 
 
Additionally,
the declaration “must state in general terms and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney client relationship why” a motion is brought
instead of filing a substitution of attorney. (CRC, 3.1362(c).)
 
Analysis
 
Eric P.
Lampel and the Lampel Firm move to be relieved as counsel of record for
Defendant Scaling Group LLC. Counsel provides that an irreparable breakdown of
the attorney-client relationship has occurred. Counsel declares that since
March 2023, there has been virtually no communication with Scaling Group, LLC
or its principal Alex Martino. (Lampel Decl., ¶ 3.) Counsel placed numerous
calls and emails, but there was no response. (Id., ¶ 4.) Counsel had one
communication with Martino in April 2023 when he provided his address. (Id.)
Notably, the company filed for bankruptcy protection in early May 2023. (Id.)
 
Counsel
fails to provide all mandatory forms. Counsel provides a declaration in support
of the motion but does not provide the declaration on the mandatory MC-052
form. Counsel does not provide MC-053 or any equivalent papers. Further, counsel
does not provide if they served Scaling Group with this motion at an address which
was confirmed as current within the past 30 days. Counsel must submit this
information before they may be relieved as counsel of record.
 
Accordingly,
the motion is DENIED without prejudice. 
Counsel may refile the motion with the mandatory forms.  In addition, the Court notes that there is no
notice of bankruptcy that has been filed. 
Counsel has the obligation to file a notice of stay for his
client. (CRC Rule 3.650), which should be done before the next hearing. 