 Case Number:  21STCP00556    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 



DAVID WEHRLY,
                        Petitioner,
            vs.
HAWTHORNE HANGAR OPERATIONS,
LP, et al. 
                        Respondents.


Case No.:


21STCP00556




Hearing Date:


April 18, 2024




Hearing Time:   10:00 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:  
 
MOTION FOR AWARD
  OF ATTORNEY’S FEES AND COSTS ON POST-JUDGMENT PROCEEDINGS
 



 
            Background

On February 19, 2021, Petitioner David Wehrly (“Petitioner”) filed a
Petition to Confirm Contractual Arbitration Award in this action against
Respondents Hawthorne Hangar Operations, LP and Dan Wolfe as Trustee. 
On March 9, 2021, Petitioner filed a First Amended Petition to Confirm
Contractual Arbitration Award against Respondents Hawthorne Hangar Operations,
LP (“HHO”) and Dan Wolfe as Trustee of the Wolfe Family Trust of 1992 (“Wolfe”).

On May 13, 2022, the Court issued a Judgment in this action providing,
inter alia, that “The Petition to Confirm Contractual Arbitration Award
filed by David Wehrly (‘Petitioner’) under Los Angeles Superior Court case
number 21STCP00556 (‘Petition Action’) against Hawthorne Hangar Operations, LP,
Dan Wolfe as Trustee of the Wolfe Family Trust of 1992, and Does 1-10 is hereby
ORDERED CONFIRMED in favor of Petitioner and against the Respondents Hawthorne
Hangar Operations, LP and Dan Wolfe as Trustee of the Wolfe Family Trust of
1992 (‘Respondents’) as follows:…” The May 13, 2022 Judgment further provides, inter
alia, that “[i]n total, through May 13, 2022, the Judgment amount in favor
of Petitioner and against Respondents is $1,200,439.73…and the Judgment amount
in favor of Petitioner and against Messina & Hankin LLP is $3,663.93…”  
On September 20, 2023, the Court of Appeal, Second Appellate District,
Division One issued an Opinion in Case No. B321452 (Los Angeles County Super.
Ct. No. 21STCP00556)
providing,
inter alia, that “Dan Wolfe appeals from a judgment confirming an
arbitration award in favor of David Wehrly…We hold the arbitrator’s ruling was
based on his interpretation of the agreement, not a modification of it, and the
ruling did not conflict with the earlier declaratory judgment, which involved a
different agreement and different parties. Wolfe has forfeited his illegality
challenge for failing timely to raise it before the arbitrator. Accordingly, we
affirm.” 
On November 22, 2023, a Remittitur was filed in this action providing,
inter alia, that “the attached is a true and correct copy of the
original order, opinion or decision entered in the above-entitled cause on
September 20, 2023 and that this order, opinion or decision has now become
final. Respondent David Wehrly is awarded his costs on appeal.” 
Petitioner now moves “for an award of attorney’s fees in the amount of
$517,662.40…on the grounds that the Court of Appeal, Second Appellate District
affirmed the trial court ruling favoring [Petitioner] against Dan Wolfe, as
Trustee of the Wolfe Family Trust of 1992 on September 20, 2023 – as well as
for fees incurred in connection with defending the Judgment before the United
States Bankruptcy Court for the Central District of California.” Petitioner
also seeks costs.[1] Wolfe
opposes. 
Request for Judicial
Notice 
The Court grants Wolfe’s request for judicial
notice. 
Evidentiary Objections 
The Court rules on Petitioner’s evidentiary
objections as follows: 
Objection to Jamison Decl., ¶ 3:
sustained as to “[a]ll the while, Wehrly was well aware that HHO held the
valuable Hawthorne Hangar property,” overruled as to the remainder. 
Objection to Jamison Decl., ¶ 4: overruled

Objection to Jamison Decl., ¶ 8:
sustained as to the last three sentences, overruled as to the remainder. 
Objection to Jamison Decl., ¶ 10: sustained as to the last sentence,
overruled as to the remainder.  
Objection to Jamison Decl., ¶ 16: sustained as to the first and last
sentences, overruled as to the remainder. 
Objection to Jamison Decl., ¶ 17: sustained  
Objection to Jamison Decl., ¶ 18: sustained as to “[t]he attorney’s
fees incurred in the Bankruptcy proceedings were not incurred to enforce the
secured Judgment and are consequently disallowable” and “[m]any entries by Mr.
Sandelmann contain impermissible block billing; mixing expensive tasks
connected to the Bankruptcy proceedings with tasks connected to the Appeal. In
fact, many of Mr. Sandemann’s tasks connected to the Appeal were duplicative
efforts of other attorneys in his office, each billing for the same tasks,”
overruled as to the remainder. 
Objection to Exhibit A to Wolfe’s Request for Judicial Notice:
overruled
Objection to Exhibit D to Wolfe’s Request for Judicial Notice:
overruled
Objection to Exhibit E to Wolfe’s Request for Judicial Notice:
overruled 
Discussion
Entitlement to
Attorney’s Fees
Pursuant to Civil Code section 1717, subdivision (a), “[i]n any action on a contract,
where the contract specifically provides that attorney’s fees and costs, which
are incurred to enforce that contract, shall be awarded either to one of the
parties or to the prevailing party, then the party who is determined to be the
party prevailing on the contract, whether he or she is the party specified in
the contract or not, shall be entitled to reasonable attorney’s fees in
addition to other costs.” Petitioner notes that “[i]t is
established that fees, if recoverable at all -- pursuant either to statute or
parties’ agreement -- are available for services at trial and on appeal. Indeed, appellate courts have consistently permitted a
successful party to recover attorney fees incurred on appeal when a statute
expressly permits such an award in the trial court or other lower tribunal.” ((Morcos v. Board of
Retirement (1990) 51 Cal.3d 924,
927 [internal quotations, citations, and emphasis omitted].) 
The First
Amended Petition to Confirm Contractual Arbitration Award (“FAP”) in this
action alleges that Petitioner and respondent entered into a
written agreement on or about April 24, 2014. (FAP, ¶ 4(a).) Attachment 4(b) to
the FAP is a Partnership Interest Purchase Agreement (the “PPA”). (FAP, ¶ 4(b),
Attachment 4(b).) The PPA provides, inter alia, that “THIS PARTNERSHIP
INTEREST PURCHASE AGREEMENT (‘PPA’) is made and entered into as of April 24,
2014, by and between GREGORY L. GEISER, DAVID WEHRLY, DARIN PUHL, ROBERT
FRERICHS and LEVI STOCKTON (collectively referred to herein as ‘Sellers’, and
individually as a ‘Seller’), and DAN WOLFE, Trustee of the WOLFE FAMILY TRUST
OF 1992, and Nominee (collectively referred to herein as ‘Buyers’, and
individually as a ‘Buyer’).” (FAP, ¶ 4(b), Attachment 4(b).) 
Petitioner
notes that Section 20 of the PPA
provides that “[i]n the event of any controversy, claim or dispute between the
Parties hereto, arising out of or relating to this PPA or the breach thereof,
the prevailing Party, shall be entitled to recover from the losing Party
reasonable expenses, including attorneys’ fees and related costs up through and
including the exhaustion of all appeals.” (FAP, ¶ 4(b), Attachment 4(b), § 20.) 
Petitioner asserts that he is the “prevailing Party” in the appeal
filed in Case No. B321452.[2] As
set forth above, on September 20, 2023, the Court of Appeal issued an Opinion
affirming the Court’s judgment in this action confirming the arbitration award
in favor of Petitioner. 
Petitioner also indicates that on March 26, 2023, HHO filed a
Voluntary Petition for Bankruptcy under Chapter 11 in the case commonly known
as Hawthorne Hangar Operations, L.P., Bankruptcy Case No. 2:23-bk-11789-BR (the
“HHO BK”). (Sandelmann Decl., ¶ 15.) Petitioner asserts that he is also the
“prevailing Party” in the “HHO BK.” 
Petitioner’s counsel states that “[o]n May 2, 2023, the HHO BK was
converted to a Chapter 7 bankruptcy case.” (Sandelmann Decl., ¶ 16.)
Petitioner’s counsel further indicates that “[o]n August 29, 2023, after
substantial briefing by Wehrly’s counsel and negotiations with the Chapter 7
Trustee, Wehrly and the Chapter 7 entered into a favorable settlement agreement
for payment of an allowed claim amount in exchange for Wehrly: (i) withdrawing
all oppositions to the sale of the Hangar Property; (ii) agreeing not to
attempt to enforce the Section 10.4 of the PPA
against the purchaser of the Hangar Property; and (iii) HHO would be dismissed
from the Petition Action – while allowing Wehrly to continue proceeding against
Wolfe as to any remaining costs, fees, or damages.” (Sandelmann Decl., ¶ 17.) 
In the opposition, Wolfe asserts that “the requested attorney’s fees
were discharged under the August 29, 2023 settlement and mutual release
agreement.” (Opp’n at p. 10:26-27.) In his supporting declaration, Wolfe’s
counsel indicates that “[o]n August 30, 2023, the Bankruptcy Trustee filed a
document in the Bankruptcy Court titled: Notice and Submission of the
Settlement and Mutual Release Agreement between the Trustee and the Wehrly
Parties in Support of the Trustee’s Motion for Entry of an Order approving the
Sale of Real Property [ECF No. 159].” (Jamison Decl., ¶ 11, Ex. D.) Wolfe
refers to this document as the “SAR.”  
The “Settlement And Mutual Release Agreement” attached to the SAR
provides, inter alia, that “[t]his Settlement and Mutual Release
Agreement (‘Agreement’) is entered into as of August 29, 2023…by Peter Mastan,
Chapter 7 Trustee (the ‘Trustee’) for the bankruptcy estate (‘Estate’) of
Hawthorne Hangar Operations L.P. (‘Debtor’ and ‘HHO’), on the one hand, and
David Wehrly, Robert Frerichs, Gregory L. Geiser, Levi Stockton, and Darin Puhl
(collectively, the ‘Wehrly Parties’), on the other hand.” (Jamison Decl., ¶ 11,
Ex. D.) 
Wolfe appears to cite to Section 9(b) of
the Settlement And Mutual Release Agreement in support of his argument that the
requested attorney’s fees were “discharged” under the Agreement. Section 9(b) of the Agreement provides as follows: 
 
“The
Wehrly Parties’ Release. Except for the obligations due hereunder and
as otherwise set forth in this Agreement, and only upon Closing and the entry
of the Approval Order, the Wehrly Parties agree to and do release and waive any
and all claims, obligations, demands, rights, judgments, causes of action,
lawsuits, and liabilities of any kind, nature, or amount, whether in law or
equity, whether known or unknown, anticipated or unanticipated, present or
contingent, liquidated or unliquidated, concealed or hidden, suspected or
unsuspected, including but not limited to compensatory damages, statutory
damages, liquidated damages, exemplary damages, equitable relief, punitive
damages, costs, expenses and attorneys’ fees that the Wehrly Parties now own or
hold (or at any time heretofore owned or held) against the Trustee and his
successors, assigns, agents, representatives, clients, employees, independent
contractors and/or attorneys and the Estate and its successors, assigns,
representative, attorneys and professionals employed and agents, (but only to
the extent acting in this capacity) including those claims arising from or
relating in any way to the Wehrly Allowed Claim, Judgment, Judgment Lien, and
the Wehrly Parties’ purported interests arising from and relating to the Fuel
Sale Restriction excluding, however, Dan Wolfe as Trustee of the Wolfe
Family Trust of 1992.” (Jamison Decl., ¶ 11, Ex. D, §
9(b), emphasis added.) 
Wolfe asserts that “[g]ranting Wehrly’s Motion for an Award of the
requested fees and costs would be permitting Wehrly to recover the same fees
already discharged by the SAR.” (Opp’n at p. 12:5-7.) But as Wolfe
acknowledges, the above referenced provision states, “excluding, however, Dan
Wolfe as Trustee of the Wolfe Family Trust of 1992.” (Jamison Decl., ¶ 11, Ex.
D, § 9(b).) As set forth above, Petitioner asserts
that “only Wolfe would ultimately be liable for the fees and costs requested.”
(Mot. at p. 1, fn. 1.) In addition, as noted by Petitioner, Section 9(c) of the Settlement And Mutual Release
Agreement provides, inter alia, that “[t]he above release does not
affect the Wehrly Parties’ claims against Dan Wolfe as Trustee of the Wolfe
Family Trust of 1992. (Jamison Decl., ¶ 11, Ex. D, §
9(b).)
Based on the
foregoing, the Court finds that Petitioner has demonstrated that he is entitled
to attorney’s fees and costs against Wolfe in connection with the appeal in Case
No. B321452.
Wolfe also
asserts that “the fees incurred in the Bankruptcy are outside the scope of the
fee provision in the 2014 PIPA and the remittitur.” (Opp’n at p. 12:8-19.) As
set forth above, 
Section 20 of the PPA
provides that “[i]n the event of any controversy, claim or dispute between the
Parties hereto, arising out of or relating to this PPA or the breach thereof,
the prevailing Party, shall be entitled to recover from the losing Party
reasonable expenses, including attorneys’ fees and related costs up through and
including the exhaustion of all appeals.” (FAP, ¶ 4(b), Attachment 4(b), § 20.) Wolfe asserts that “[w]hile the fees and costs
incurred on Appeal are allowable pursuant to the 2014 PIPA, there is no
reference to fees incurred in bankruptcy proceedings.” (Opp’n at p. 12:20-21.) 
In addition,
Wolfe asserts that “the Bankruptcy-related fees cannot be
attributed to [Wolfe] in this Action because he was not a Party to (nor legally
responsible for) the Bankruptcy proceedings.” (Opp’n at p. 14:5-8.) Wolfe
indicates that “Respondent HHO filed a petition for Bankruptcy under Chapter 11
on March 26, 2023.” (Jamison Decl., ¶ 5.) 
In the reply, Petitioner asserts that “[n]ot only are the fees from
bankruptcy litigation necessary costs for securing the judgment, the language
of the PPA is all encompassing in allowing for recovery of attorneys’ fees.
Specifically, the PPA states: ‘20. Attorneys’ Fees. In the event of any
controversy, claim or dispute between the Parties hereto, arising out of or
relating to this PPA or the breach thereof, the prevailing Party shall be
entitled to recover from the losing Party reasonable expenses, including
attorneys’ fees and related costs up through and including the exhaustion of
all appeals.’” (Reply at p. 5:20-27, emphasis in original.) However, Petitioner
does not appear to dispute that Wolfe “was not a party to nor a debtor in the
Bankruptcy Action.” (Opp’n at p. 13:23.) Thus, it is unclear how Wolfe could be
“the losing Party” in the subject bankruptcy proceedings. (See FAP, ¶
4(b), Attachment 4(b), § 20.)
Petitioner also argues in the reply that “Wolfe and HHO are jointly
liable for the damages caused to Wehrly. This includes the attorneys’ fees and
costs that Wehrly had to incur to secure his judgment on appeal and during the
bankruptcy proceedings.” (Reply at p. 6:11-14.) The Court notes that Petitioner
does not cite any legal authority in support of this assertion. 
In addition, Petitioner asserts in the reply (without citing to
supporting evidence) that “Wolfe controlled HHO while it was in Chapter 11
Bankruptcy, filed and signed all of the schedules, attended the meeting of the
creditors, and appeared at the bankruptcy court hearings.” (Reply at p.
6:20-22.) But Petitioner does not cite any legal authority showing that he is
entitled to attorney’s fees against Wolfe in such circumstances. As set forth
above, Petitioner relies on Section 20 of the PPA in support of his
request for attorney’s fees, which provides that “[i]n the event of any
controversy, claim or dispute between the Parties hereto, arising out of
or relating to this PPA or the breach thereof, the prevailing Party,
shall be entitled to recover from the losing Party reasonable expenses, including
attorneys’ fees and related costs up through and including the exhaustion of
all appeals.” (FAP, ¶ 4(b), Attachment 4(b), § 20,
emphasis added.) As discussed, Petitioner does not appear to dispute that Wolfe
was not a party to the bankruptcy proceedings.
Based on the foregoing, the Court does not find
that Petitioner has demonstrated that he is entitled to attorney’s fees and
costs against Wolfe in connection with the subject bankruptcy proceedings. 
Reasonableness of
Fees
“[T]he fee
setting inquiry in California ordinarily begins with the ‘lodestar,’ i.e., the
number of hours reasonably expended multiplied by the reasonable hourly rate. …
The reasonable hourly rate is that prevailing in the community for similar
work. The lodestar figure may then be adjusted, based on consideration of
factors specific to the case, in order to fix the fee at the fair market value
for the legal services provided.”
((PLCM Group, Inc. v. Drexler (2000) 22 Cal.4th 1084, 1095 [internal
citations omitted].)
“[T]he court’s
discretion in awarding attorney fees is…to be exercised so as to fully
compensate counsel for the prevailing party for services reasonably provided to
his or her client.” ((Horsford v. Board of Trustees of California State
University (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th
359, 395.) “[T]he
verified time statements of the attorneys, as officers of the court, are
entitled to credence in the absence of a clear indication the records are
erroneous.” ((Id. at p. 396.) The
trial court may reduce the award where the fee request appears unreasonably
inflated, such as where the attorneys’ efforts are unorganized or duplicative. ((Serrano v. Unruh (1982) 32 Cal.3d 621, 635, fn. 21.)
As an initial matter, Petitioner indicates that Craig G. Margulies,
Samuel M. Boyamian, and their firm Margulies Faith LLP represented Petitioner
in the “Bankruptcy Case of HHO.” (Margulies Decl., ¶¶ 1-2; Boyamian ¶¶ 1-2.)
Mr. Margulies states that he “spent 255.60 hours for this matter for a sum that
equals to $164,470.50.” (Margulies Decl., ¶ 8.) Mr. Boyamian states that he
“spent 164.10 hours for this matter for a sum that equals to $69,508.40.”
(Boyamian Decl., ¶ 8.) As set forth above, the Court
does not find that Petitioner has demonstrated that he is entitled to
attorney’s fees and costs against Wolfe in connection with the subject
bankruptcy proceedings. Thus, the Court deducts $233,978.90 ($164,470.50
+ $69,508.40) from the total amount of attorney’s fees
requested. 
Petitioner’s counsel at Beach Cities Law Group, Inc. (“BCLGI”) request
the following hourly rates: (1) Frank Sandelmann: $485/hour, (2) Joshua A.
Valene: $385/hour, and (3) Christine C. Fries: $315/hour. (Sandelmann Decl., ¶¶
4-6.) Wolfe does not appear to challenge Petitioner’s counsels’ requested hourly
rates. The Court finds Petitioner’s counsels’ hourly billing rates are
reasonable.
In his supporting declaration, Petitioner’s counsel states that
“BCLGI’s total billed/billable time incurred in this matter through December
16, 2023 is $283,683.50. True and correct redacted copies of BCLGI’s invoices
and billing entries in this matter, from June 1, 2022 through December of 2023
are attached hereto as Exhibit A.” (Sandelmann Decl., ¶ 20.) 
Wolfe asserts that “[t]he Beach Cities Law
Group, attorneys of record in the instant Action before this Trial Court,
billed over $100,000 in connection with the Bankruptcy proceedings…” (Jamison
Decl., ¶ 18.) This does not appear to be disputed by Petitioner in the reply.
However, the exact amount of attorney’s fees that the Beach Cities Law Group
billed in connection with the subject Bankruptcy proceedings does not appear to
be provided. 
In addition, Wolfe argues that “[m]any entries by Mr. Sandelmann
contain impermissible block billing; mixing expensive tasks connected to the
Bankruptcy proceedings with tasks connected to the Appeal.” (Opp’n at p.
16:23-24.)  
Wolfe also notes that many of the billing entries in “Exhibit A” to
Mr. Sandelmann’s declaration are redacted. (Sandelmann Decl., ¶ 20, Ex. A.) Wolfe
asserts that “[i]t is impossible to determine whether those heavily and
unnecessarily redacted fees are connected in any way to the instant Action and,
or are recoverable.” (Opp’n at p. 17:9-11.) In the reply, Petitioner notes that
“[a] writing that reflects an attorney’s impressions,
conclusions, opinions, or legal research or theories is not discoverable under
any circumstances.” ((Code Civ. Proc., § 2018.030, subd. (a).) Petitioner
asserts that “[t]he redactions applied to the bills
reflect attorney work product and are thus proper.” (Reply at p. 8:22.) Petitioner
also asserts that “the time entries that were provided are sufficient in
explaining the attorneys’ fees and costs incurred.” (Reply at p. 8:15-18.) But
the Court agrees with Wolfe that many of the billing entries are redacted such
that it is difficult to determine if the time requested is connected to the
subject appeal. (See Sandelmann Decl., ¶ 20, Ex. A.) 
Petitioner asserts that “there is no requirement that contemporaneous
daily billing records be submitted,” (Reply at p. 8:14), citing to PLCM Group, Inc. v. Drexler, supra, 22 Cal.4th at page 1096, where the California Supreme Court noted that “[i]n the present matter, the superior court based the award
of attorney fees to the prevailing party, PLCM, on the number of hours expended by counsel
multiplied by the prevailing market rate for comparable legal services in San
Francisco, where counsel is located. No error appears. The superior court used
a proper standard in calculating the fees.” The PLCM Group Court further noted that “[i]n-house
counsel for PLCM did not
keep contemporaneous daily billing records for work on this matter; for the purposes
of the fee request, PLCM prepared
a detailed reconstruction of time spent on specific legal tasks performed in
the case. We note that maintaining contemporaneous records by in-house counsel
of hours spent on a case involving a possible request for attorney fees would
facilitate accurate calculation of the lodestar and minimize possible
inaccuracies in reconstructing time spent on a matter months or even years
after the fact.” (Id. at p. 1096, fn. 4.) 
But here, although
Petitioner’s counsel at Beach Cities Law Group provided
redacted billing records, Beach Cities Law Group did not
appear to also provide an outline of time
spent on specific legal tasks performed in the case. (See Sandelmann
Declaration.)   
Wolfe also asserts in the opposition that Petitioner “has engaged in
conduct that made much of the litigation unnecessary and, as a result, his fees
are unreasonable.” (Opp’n. at p. 15:2-3.) The Court does not find that Wolfe
has shown that Petitioner’s conduct in connection with the subject appeal was
“unnecessary” such that the requested fees are unreasonable. 
Lastly, Wolfe contends that “[w]hile HHO and Wolfe are not joint
tortfeasors in this Action, California law is instructive under these
circumstances where a plaintiff settles with one co-defendant and subsequently
seeks a double recovery from the non-settling co-defendant.” (Opp’n at p.
17:13-15.) In support of this assertion, Wolfe cites to Reed v. Wilson
(1999)
73 Cal.App.4th 439, 443, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[p]ursuant to section 877,
a good faith settlement bars nonsettling defendants from seeking contribution
from a settling defendant, but in return the nonsettling defendants’ ultimate
liability to the plaintiff is reduced by the amount stipulated by the release
or by the amount of consideration paid.” (Internal quotations omitted.) The Reed
Court noted that “[t]he offset provided for in section
877 assures that a plaintiff will not be enriched unjustly by a double
recovery, collecting part of his total claim from one joint tortfeasor and all
of his claim from another.” (Id. at p. 444.) But as noted by Petitioner, Wolfe acknowledges
that “HHO and Wolfe are not joint tortfeasors.” (Opp’n at
p. 17:13.) The Court accordingly does not see why Wolfe relies on Reed. 
In light of the foregoing, the Court will require a
supplemental declaration from Petitioner’s counsel more clearly setting forth
the fees incurred by Petitioner solely in connection with the subject appeal in Case
No. B321452. 
///
///
Costs
Petitioner’s notice of
motion asserts that Petitioner “is also entitled to $4,938.19 in costs.”
(Notice of Motion at p. 2:6-7.)[3] Petitioner’s counsel at Beach
Cities Law Group states that
Petitioner “has incurred costs of suit in the amount of $4,938.19
through the date of the remittitur.” (Sandelmann Decl., ¶ 21.) 
In the opposition, Wolfe’s counsel asserts that “Wehrly’s costs
include those related to Wehrly’s Writ of Mandate, Wehrly’s Appeal and Wehrly’s
involvement in the Bankruptcy proceedings, among other things.” (Jamison Decl.,
¶ 19.) Wolfe asserts that “[f]or the foregoing reasons regarding disallowing
the attorney’s fees related to these other proceedings, the costs related to
those other proceedings should be taxed.” (Opp’n at p. 18:9-11.) In the reply,
Petitioner asserts that “the bankruptcy proceeding was a necessary litigation
in [Petitioner’s] ultimate recovery of the judgment…Correspondingly, the costs
associated with the bankruptcy proceeding should not be taxed.” (Reply at p.
9:5-9.) 
As discussed, the Court does not find that Petitioner has demonstrated
that he is entitled to attorney’s fees and costs against Wolfe in connection
with the subject bankruptcy proceedings. Thus, the Court will require a
supplemental declaration from Petitioner’s counsel setting forth the costs
incurred by Petitioner solely in connection with the subject appeal in Case
No. B321452. 
Interest 
            In the motion, Petitioner also seeks
“interest on the Judgment at a per diem rate of $328.89.” (Notice of
Motion at p. 2:7.) In his supporting declaration, Petitioner’s counsel states
that “[s]tarting on May 13, 2022, the Judgment accrued 10% interest at a per
diem rate of $328.89.” (Sandelmann Decl., ¶ 22.) However, Petitioner does not
appear to explain how such per diem rate was calculated. Thus, the Court does
not find that Petitioner has demonstrated that he is entitled to “interest on
the Judgment at a per diem rate of $328.89.” (Notice of Motion at p. 2:7.)  
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the Court
continues the hearing on the instant motion to _________________,¿ at 10:00
a.m. in Dept. 50.¿¿ 
The Court sets the following
briefing schedule:¿¿ 
Petitioner’s supplemental
declaration to be filed and served by _________________, with a courtesy copy
delivered to Dept. 50.¿¿ 
Wolfe’s response, if any, to be
filed and served by _________________, with a courtesy copy delivered to Dept.
50.¿¿ 
The argument and evidence in the
supplemental papers are limited to the requested additional information, as
discussed above, and the response thereto. The parties may not include any
argument or evidence on any other issue.¿¿¿ 
Petitioner is to provide notice
of this ruling.¿¿
 
DATED:  April 18, 2024                                ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


