 Case Number:  23STCV02014    Hearing Date:   October 14, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling  Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47   HEARING DATE: October 14, 2024  TRIAL DATE: NOT SET  CASE:   Charles Quick, et al. v. Cynthia Harris  CASE NO.:    23STCV02014   MOTION TO DEEM THE TRUTH OF MATTERS STATED IN REQUESTS FOR ADMISSIONS AS ADMITTED; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS   MOVING PARTY: (1)-(3) Defendant/Cross-Complainant Cynthia Harris  RESPONDING PARTY(S): No response on eCourt as of 6/20/24  CASE HISTORY: 01/30/23: Complaint filed. 05/04/23: Cross-Complaint filed.   STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:  This is an action for breach of contract. Plaintiffs allege that Defendant failed to pay for contracting and construction services for a work of improvement on an apartment building.   Defendant moves to deem the truth of matters stated in requests for admissions propounded to Plaintiff Charles Quick as admitted, and for sanctions. Defendant also moves to compel responses to form interrogatories and requests for production as to Plaintiff Gerald Yates, and for sanctions.   TENTATIVE RULING:  Defendant’s Motion to Deem the Truth of Matters Stated in Requests for Admissions propounded to Plaintiff Quick is GRANTED.  Defendant’s request for sanctions against Plaintiff Quick is GRANTED in the amount of $787.50. Payment is to be made within 20 days of this order.   Defendant’s Motion to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories propounded to Plaintiff Yates is GRANTED.  Defendant’s Motion to Compel Responses to Requests for Production propounded to Plaintiff Yates is GRANTED.  Plaintiff Yates is ordered to provide verified, code-compliant responses without objections within 30 days of this order.   Defendant’s request for sanctions against Plaintiff Yates is GRANTED in the total amount of $1,575. Payment is to be made within 20 days of this order.   Moving Party to give notice.  DISCUSSION:  Motion to Deem Truth of Matters Stated in Requests for Admissions  Defendant moves to deem the truth of matters stated in requests for admissions propounded to Plaintiff Charles Quick as admitted, and for sanctions.   Legal Standard  When a party to whom requests for admission are directed fails to respond, the party propounding the requests may move for an order that the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280(b).) “The court shall make this order [deem the requests admitted], unless it finds that the party to whom the request for admissions have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with section 2033.220.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280(c).)  Analysis  Defendant served Requests for Admissions on Plaintiff on February 9, 2024. (Declaration of Yasmine Novian ISO Mot. ¶ 2 Exh. 1.) On February 21, 2024, Plaintiff requested, through former counsel Byron Mauss, an extension of time to respond to March 26, 2024. (Id. ¶ 3.) That request was granted. (Id.) To date, no responses have been provided. (Id. ¶ 8.) Defendant is therefore entitled to an order deeming the truth of the matters stated in those requests for admissions.   //  // Sanctions  Defendant also requests sanctions against Plaintiff Quick in the amount of $1,575 for failing to respond to the Requests for Admissions.   Failure to respond or submit to an authorized method of discovery is a misuse of the discovery process for which sanctions may be imposed. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2023.010(d); 2023.030(a).) Sanctions are mandatory on the party or attorney or both whose failure to serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated a motion to deem requests for admissions as admitted. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280(c).)  Here, Defendant’s counsel requests $1,575 in sanctions based on three hours of attorney time at an hourly rate of $525 per hour. (Declaration of Yasmine Novian ISO Mot. ¶ 9.) This request is excessive. It should not require three hours of attorney time to prepare a straightforward, unopposed motion such as this. The Court will therefore award reduced sanctions in the amount of $787.50, reflecting 1.5 hours of attorney time at the given rate, which the Court considers a reasonable time to spend on such a motion.   Conclusion  Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to Deem the Truth of Matters Stated in Requests for Admissions propounded to Plaintiff Quick is GRANTED.  Defendant’s request for sanctions against Plaintiff Quick is GRANTED in the amount of $787.50.   Motions to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories & Requests for Production  Defendant moves to compel responses to Form Interrogatories and Requests for Production propounded to Plaintiff Gerald Yates, and for sanctions. As these motions rely on the same facts and substantively identical standards, the Court will address these motions together in the interest of brevity.  Legal Standard  When a party to whom an inspection demand or an interrogatory is directed fails to respond, a party making the request may move for an order compelling responses. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.290(b) [interrogatories]; 2031.300(b) [requests for production].) A party who fails to provide timely responses waives any objection, including one based on privilege or work product. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.290(a); 2031.300(a).) For a motion to compel initial responses, no meet and confer is required. All that must be shown is that discovery requests were properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no response has been served. (Leach v. Sup. Ct. (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-06.)   // Analysis  Defendant served Form Interrogatories and Requests for Production on Plaintiff Yates on February 9, 2024. (Declaration of Yasmine Novian ISO Mot. ¶ 2 Exh. 1.) On February 21, 2024, Plaintiff requested, through former counsel Byron Mauss, an extension of time to respond to March 26, 2024. (Id. ¶ 3.) That request was granted. (Id.) To date, no responses have been provided. (Id. ¶ 8.) Defendant is therefore entitled to an order compelling responses to form interrogatories and requests for production.  Sanctions  Defendant requests sanctions against Plaintiff Yates in the amount of $1,575.00 for each motion, for a total of $3,150.  Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery is a misuse of the discovery process.  (Code of Civ. Proc. § 2023.010.) Under California Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subd. (a), “[t]he court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  Sanctions are mandatory in connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories or requests for production against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel.¿(Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.290(c); 2030.300(d); 2031.300 (c); 2031.310(h).) However, sanctions are not mandatory if the court “finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”¿¿(Id.)  Here, Defendant’s counsel requests $1,575 in sanctions on each motion based on three hours of attorney time at an hourly rate of $525 per hour. (Declaration of Yasmine Novian ISO Mot. ¶ 9.) This request is excessive. It should not require three hours of attorney time to prepare a straightforward, unopposed motion such as these. The Court will therefore award reduced sanctions in the amount of $787.50 on each motion, for a total of $1,575.   Conclusion  Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories propounded to Plaintiff Yates is GRANTED.  Defendant’s Motion to Compel Responses to Requests for Production propounded to Plaintiff Yates is GRANTED.  Defendant’s request for sanctions against Plaintiff Yates is GRANTED in the total amount of $1,575.00.  CONCLUSION:   Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to Deem the Truth of Matters Stated in Requests for Admissions propounded to Plaintiff Quick is GRANTED.  Defendant’s request for sanctions against Plaintiff Quick is GRANTED in the amount of $787.50. Payment is to be made within 20 days of this order.   Defendant’s Motion to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories propounded to Plaintiff Yates is GRANTED.  Defendant’s Motion to Compel Responses to Requests for Production propounded to Plaintiff Yates is GRANTED.  Plaintiff Yates is ordered to provide verified, code-compliant responses without objections within 30 days of this order.   Defendant’s request for sanctions against Plaintiff Yates is GRANTED in the total amount of $1,575.00. Payment is to be made within 20 days of this order.   Moving Party to give notice.  IT IS SO ORDERED.  Dated:  October 14, 2024   ___________________________________ Theresa M. Traber Judge of the Superior Court    Any party¿may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org¿by no later than¿4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part. 