 Case Number:  24STCV07239    Hearing Date:   October 14, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling  Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47   HEARING DATE: October 14, 2024  TRIAL DATE: NOT SET  CASE:   MONARCH LLC v. Total Resources International, Inc.  CASE NO.:    24STCV07239   MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR ADMISSIONS; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS   MOVING PARTY: (1)(2) Plaintiff MONARCH, LLC  RESPONDING PARTY(S): (1)(2) Defendant Total Resources International, Inc.  CASE HISTORY: 03/22/24: Complaint filed.  06/26/24: First Amended Complaint filed.   STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:  This is a Proposition 65 enforcement action. Plaintiff alleges that first-aid kits sold by Defendant contain Diisonyl Phthalate and that Defendant failed to disclose this information.   Plaintiff moves to compel further responses requests for production and requests for admissions, and for sanctions.   TENTATIVE RULING:  Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production is GRANTED as to all Requests except Request No. 6.  Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Admissions is GRANTED.   Plaintiff’s Request for Sanctions is DENIED.  Defendants are ordered to provide verified, code-compliant responses without objections within 30 days of this order.   DISCUSSION:  Requests for Judicial Notice  Defendant requests that the Court take judicial notice of (1) the Articles of Organization for MONARCH ACTION, LLC filed February 22, 2022; (2) the September 12, 2023 Amendment to those Articles of Organization; (3) the October 12, 2023 Amendment to those Articles of Organization; and (4) a printout of a search report for “MONARCH ACTION” on the official website of the Los Angeles County Registrar-Recorder.   Defendant’s Requests Nos. 1-3 are GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(c) (official acts). Defendant’s Request No. 4 is DENIED as irrelevant to the Court’s ruling. (Gbur v. Cohen (1979) 93 Cal.App.3d 296, 301 (“[J]udicial notice . . . is always confined to those matters which are relevant to the issue at hand.”].)¿  Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production  Plaintiff moves to compel further responses to requests to Requests for Production propounded to Defendant.   Legal Standard  Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, subdivision (a), a court may order a party to serve a further response to a demand for inspection when the court finds that: “(1) A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete[;] (2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive[; or] (3) An objection in the response is without merit or too general.”  The burden is on the moving party to “set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).) These facts must also be set forth in a separate statement filed by the moving party. (Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1345(c).) This burden “is met simply by a fact-specific showing of relevance.” (TBG Ins. Servs. Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 443, 448.)  Timeliness  A motion to compel further responses to requests for production must be served “within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310(c).)¿The 45-day requirement is mandatory and jurisdictional. (Sexton v. Superior Court¿(1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.)  Plaintiff’s counsel propounded Requests for Admissions, Requests for Production, Form Interrogatories, and Special Interrogatories on Defendant on May 3, 2024. (Declaration of Daniel M. Greenbaum ISO Mot. ¶ 6.) Defendant served responses to the complete set of discovery on July 20, 2024 by mail and electronic service. (Id. ¶ 11; Exh. 5.) Accounting for a two-day extension for electronic service, these motions were due on September 5, 2024, the date these motions were filed and served. Plaintiffs’ Motions are timely.  Meet and Confer  A party making a motion to compel further responses must also include a declaration stating facts showing a “reasonable and good faith attempt” to resolve informally the issues presented by the motion before filing the motion. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2016.040, 2031.310, subd. (b)(2).)  Plaintiff’s counsel states that his office sent Defendant’s counsel a meet and confer letter regarding the discovery responses on August 14, 2024. (Greenbaum Decl. ¶ 12, Exh. 6.) Plaintiff does not state whether Defendant responded to this letter, or whether there was any additional effort to communicate with Defendant’s counsel to informally resolve this dispute. A single letter is not sufficient to demonstrate a “reasonable and good faith attempt” at informal resolution. Plaintiff has not satisfied its statutory meet and confer obligations. Nevertheless, the Court will address the merits of the motions to expeditiously resolve this dispute.  Good Cause  Plaintiff moves to compel further responses to a full set of Requests for Production propounded to Defendant. Plaintiff’s motion does not expressly address the good cause requirement on a motion to compel further responses to document requests. Thus, good cause for the requests only exists where the requests demonstrate relevance to the action on their face.   The bulk of the requests are facially relevant to the action. Requests Nos. 1 through 5 and 15-16 seek documents relating to sales, profits, revenues, and expenses, manufacture, and distribution pertaining to the product which is the subject of this action. (Plaintiff’s Exh. 1 Nos. 1-5, 15-16..) Request No. 7 seeks laboratory testing reports for the product. (Id. No. 7.) Requests Nos. 8 through 10 seek a list of all first aid kits, such as the subject product, which Defendant manufactures, distributes, or sells. (Id. Nos. 8-10.)  Requests Nos. 11 through 14 seek materials pertaining to the 60-Day-Notice which is a prerequisite to the action. (Id. Nos. 11-14.) Requests No. 17 seeks all documents related to the chemical that is the subject of this action in the subject product. (Id. No. 17.) Finally, Requests Nos 18 and 19 seek all documents identified in response to the Form and Special Interrogatories. (Id. Nos. 18-19.) These materials demonstrate relevance on their face, and therefore Plaintiff has shown good cause for these requests.  As to Request No. 6, however, Plaintiff seeks all of Defendant’s tax filings within the past 10 years. Nothing in the Complaint nor the Motion demonstrates the relevance of this request, especially as tax returns are generally privileged. (Schnabel v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 704, 718-721 [discussing the privilege and its limitations].) Plaintiff has not shown good cause for this request.   Defendant’s Responses  In response to the requests, Defendant served boilerplate objections claiming that the discovery “was propounded by a non-entity in the State of California and non-party to this case and was therefore unlawfully propounded, void and without force or effect.” (Id. Exh. 5.)   Defendant contends in its opposition that MONARCH LLC is a non-existent entity and not a party to this case. The Complaint in this action, filed March 22, 2024 originally named “MONARCH LLC” as the Plaintiff. The First Amended Complaint, filed June 26, 2024, clarifies that “MONARCH” is an abbreviation for “Mothers Oversight Network for Actionable Contaminant Harm.” (FAC ¶ 4.) Moreover, the Amendments of Articles of Organization filed with the Secretary of State, which Defendant purports to rely upon in opposition, plainly states that MONARCH is an abbreviation for the name of the entity as of September 2023. (See RJN Exhs. 2-3.) Defendant offers no authority in support of the conclusion that applying an abbreviation of an LLC’s legal name is improper, and Defendant’s bare assertion that an abbreviation is a “fictitious business name” subject to the requirements of Business & Professions Code section 17918 is not persuasive. Defendant’s objections and arguments are wholly specious and without merit. Plaintiff is therefore entitled to an order compelling further responses to these requests for production.   Sanctions  Plaintiff also seeks sanctions in connection with this motion. As Plaintiff has not fully prevailed on this motion, the Court declines to award sanctions.  Conclusion  Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production is GRANTED as to all Requests except Request No. 6.  Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is DENIED.  //   Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Admissions  Plaintiff moves to compel further responses to Requests for Admissions propounded to Defendant.   Legal Standard  Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.290(a) provides that “[o]n receipt of a response to requests for admissions, the party requesting admissions may move for an order compelling a further response if that party deems that either or both of the following apply: (1) An answer to a particular request is evasive or incomplete; (2) An objection to a particular request is without merit or too general.” (Code Civ. Proc § 2033.290(a).)   The burden is on the responding party to justify any objection or failure to fully answer the requests. (See Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)  Meet and Confer  A party making a motion to compel further responses must also include a declaration stating facts showing a “reasonable and good faith attempt” to resolve informally the issues presented by the motion before filing the motion. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2016.040; 2033.290(b).)  Plaintiff’s counsel states that his office sent Defendant’s counsel a meet and confer letter regarding the discovery responses on August 14, 2024. (Greenbaum Decl. ¶ 12, Exh. 6.) Plaintiff does not state whether Defendant responded to this letter, or whether there was any additional effort to communicate with Defendant’s counsel to informally resolve this dispute. A single letter is not sufficient to demonstrate a “reasonable and good faith attempt” at informal resolution. Plaintiff has not satisfied its statutory meet and confer obligations. Nevertheless, the Court will address the merits of the motions to expeditiously resolve this dispute.  Timing  A motion to compel further responses to requests for admission or for interrogatories must be served “within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.290(c).)¿The 45-day requirement is mandatory and jurisdictional. (Sexton v. Superior Court¿(1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.)  Plaintiff’s counsel propounded Requests for Admissions, Requests for Production, Form Interrogatories, and Special Interrogatories on Defendant on May 3, 2024. (Declaration of Daniel M. Greenbaum ISO Mot. ¶ 6.) Defendant served responses to the complete set of discovery on July 20, 2024 by mail and electronic service. (Id. ¶ 11; Exh. 5.) Accounting for a two day extension for electronic service, these motions were due on September 5, 2024, the date these motions were filed and served. Plaintiffs’ Motions are timely.  Analysis  Plaintiff propounded Requests for Admissions to Defendant on May 3, 2024. (Greenbaum Decl. Exh. 1.) In response, Defendant served boilerplate objections claiming that the discovery “was propounded by a non-entity in the State of California and non-party to this case and was therefore unlawfully propounded, void and without force or effect.” (Id. Exh. 5.)   Defendant contends in its opposition that MONARCH LLC is a non-existent entity and not a party to this case. The Complaint in this action, filed March 22, 2024 originally named “MONARCH LLC” as the Plaintiff. The First Amended Complaint, filed June 26, 2024, clarifies that “MONARCH” is an abbreviation for “Mothers Oversight Network for Actionable Contaminant Harm.” (FAC ¶ 4.) Moreover, the Amendments of Articles of Organization filed with the Secretary of State, which Defendant purports to rely upon in opposition, plainly states that MONARCH is an abbreviation for the name of the entity as of September 2023. (See RJN Exhs. 2-3.) Defendant offers no authority in support of the conclusion that applying an abbreviation of an LLC’s legal name is improper, and Defendant’s bare assertion that an abbreviation is a “fictitious business name” subject to the requirements of Business & Professions Code section 17918 is not persuasive. Defendant’s objections and arguments are wholly specious and without merit. Plaintiff is therefore entitled to an order compelling further responses to these requests for admissions.   Sanctions  Plaintiff also requests sanctions against Defendant and its counsel, jointly and severally, for Defendant’s invalid objections.   Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery is a misuse of the discovery process.  (Code of Civ. Proc. § 2023.010.) Under California Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subd. (a), “[t]he court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  Sanctions are mandatory in connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel.¿(Code Civ. Proc. §2033.290(d).) However, sanctions are not mandatory if the court “finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”¿¿(Id.)  Here, Plaintiff’s counsel claims that he incurred 2.5 hours on this motion at an hourly rate of $600, for a total of $1,500 on the motion. (Greenbaum Decl. ¶ 13.) However, Plaintiff’s counsel offers no evidence nor testimony as to the reasonableness of those expenses by, for example, speaking to his legal training or years of experience. Plaintiff has therefore failed to demonstrate that the attorney’s fees sought are, in fact, reasonable. The Court thus declines to award sanctions.   Conclusion  Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Admissions is GRANTED.  Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is DENIED.   CONCLUSION:   Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production is GRANTED as to all Requests except Request No. 6.  Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Admissions is GRANTED.   Plaintiff’s Request for Sanctions is DENIED.  Defendants are ordered to provide verified, code-compliant responses without objections within 30 days of this order.   Moving Party to give notice.  IT IS SO ORDERED.  Dated:  October 14, 2024   ___________________________________ Theresa M. Traber Judge of the Superior Court   Any party¿may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org¿by no later than¿4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part. 