  Case Number:  19STCV31055    Hearing Date:   October 14, 2024    Dept:  47 TENTATIVE RULINGS ON MOTIONS IN LIMINE
CASE:    Olanna
Taskey v. Benjamin Boston, et al.
CASE NO.:  19STCV31055
Defendants’ MIL #1 -- seeking to exclude any evidence
not disclosed during discovery.    
RULING:  Denied,
without prejudice.
Defendants have not
identified any specific evidence that should be excluded nor demonstrated a
right to an exclusion order.  
In general, a party
who has responded to formal written discovery has no affirmative duty to
supplement its responses when new information comes into its possession.  (Biles v. Exxon Mobil Corp. (2004) 124
Cal.App.4th 1315, 1318–1319, 1328.) 
“[A]bsent unusual circumstances, such as repeated and egregious
discovery abuses,” courts will not impose an evidentiary sanction for a failure
to disclose unless there has been a “willful” failure to disclose.  (Id., at p. 1327.)  Here, there has been no showing that any of
Plaintiff’s discovery responses were willfully false or incomplete.  (Id., at p. 1323-1324.)  Nor have Defendants pointed to any violation
of a court order directing Plaintiff to provide further answers to Defendants’
discovery.  
Here, Defendants have
not only failed to identify specific evidence that they claim should be
excluded, but they have made no effort to show that any non-disclosure by Plaintiff
was willful or that the failure to disclose violated a court order.  On this record, there is no basis for an
exclusion order, but if there are specific objections made at trial grounded on
the proper showing, the Court will consider whether previously unproduced
evidence should be excluded. 
Defendants’ MIL #2 – to exclude evidence, witnesses
or claim that Defendant Benjamin Boston, Lexington Plaza LLC, Roxbury Lane,
L.P., or Elliot Hyland are liable for Breach of Contract.  
TENTATIVE
RULING:  DENIED, without prejudice.
Defendants Benjamin
Boston, Lexington Plaza LLC, Roxbury Lane, L.P., and Elliot Hyland ask the
Court to exclude all evidence, witnesses or claims as to their liability for
breach of Plaintiff’s lease agreement based on the assertion that they are not
signatories to the lease.  The problems
with the motion are many.  
First, Plaintiff’s
breach of contract claim does not name Defendants Boston or Hyland as
defendants, so the motion on behalf of these defendants is grounded on a false
premise.  
Second, to the extent
Defendants Lexington and Roxbury seek to bar any contract claims against them,
they should have demurred to the tenth cause of action for breach of contract
or submitted a properly supported motion for summary adjudication.  Having failed to do so, Defendants may not
seek such relief through a motion in limine unsupported by any evidence.  
Third, and of most
consequence, Defendants have not identified any specific evidence that should
be excluded at trial.  Plainly, the
relationships between the named defendants and their responsibilities under the
law are at issue in connection with many of the other claims Plaintiff will be
prosecuting at trial.  (E.g., 2/7/20
Ruling on Defendants’ Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint and Motion to Strike,
p. 3 [recognizing Plaintiff’s ratification theory as a basis for holding other
defendants liable for Defendant Hyland’s alleged misconduct], p. 5 [overruling
demurrer to eighth cause of action and recognizing it as a claim for negligent
retention or supervision of Defendant Hyland].) 
Thus, Plaintiff is entitled to offer evidence about Defendants’ roles in
maintaining and managing the property, overseeing the activities of the on-site
manager, and other relationships between the defendants.  Because Defendants do not identify any
specific evidence that should be excluded from trial based on a showing that it
is relevant only to Plaintiff’s contract claims alleged against them, the Court
is unable to make any effective evidentiary ruling.  
Plaintiff’s MIL #
3:  to preclude witnesses from the courtroom
unless testifying.  
TENTATIVE
RULING:  GRANTED.
The Court will
exclude all witnesses from observing the trial until after their testimony
except for Plaintiff, the individual Defendants, and a designated representative
for each entity Defendant.
 