 Case Number:  24STCV08225    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



MICHAEL
  SEVERO, JR., et al. 
                           
         vs.
 
THE
  ELITE GROUP PROPERTY INSPECTION SERVICE, et al. 
 


 Case No.: 
  24STCV08225  
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  October 3, 2024



 
Defendants’
motion to strike is DENIED IN PART, GRANTED IN PART. Defendant’s motion is
GRANTED as to the attorneys fees request, but DENIED as to the prayer for
punitive damages. 
 
            On 4/2/2024, Plaintiff Michael Severo, Jr. and Michelle
Severo (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed suit against the Elite Group Property
Inspection Service, Inc., Todd Smith, Media West Realty, Inc., Bryan C. Ochse,
Compass California, and Charles W. Clark, alleging: (1) breach of statutory
duty; (2) breach of fiduciary duty; (3) breach of contract; (4) negligence; (5)
intentional misrepresentation; (6) negligent misrepresentation; and (7) constructive
fraud.  
 
            Now, Defendants Media West Realty, Inc. and Bryan C.
Ochse (collectively, Defendants) move to strike portions of Plaintiff’s
Complaint. 
 
            The motion is unopposed. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Motions to strike are used to reach
defects or objections to pleadings that are not challengeable by demurrer, such
as words, phrases, and prayers for damages. (See Code Civ Proc., §§
435-437.)  A motion to strike can be made to strike irrelevant, false or
improper matter inserted in any pleading or to strike any pleading or part
thereof not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court
rule or order of the court.  (CCP § 436.) 
 
Discussion 
 
The adequacy of a claim for punitive
damages is properly tested by a motion to strike. (Grieves v. Superior
Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 164.) Civil Code section 3294,
subdivision (a) authorizes the recovery of punitive damages where the
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, express or
implied. Malice means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause
injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) Oppression is
despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights. (Id., subd. (c)(2).) Fraud means an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the party of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. (Id., subd. (c)(3).) 
 
“In order to survive a motion to strike
an allegation of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to
such relief must be pled by a plaintiff.” (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998)
67 Cal. App. 4th 1253, 1255.) Conclusory allegations, devoid of any factual
assertions, are insufficient to support a conclusion that parties acted with
oppression, fraud or malice. (Smith v. Sup. Ct. (1992) 10 Cal. App.
4th 1033, 1042.)
 
            Here,
Defendants have not challenged the sufficiency of Plaintiff’s pleadings through
demurrer. Accordingly, Plaintiff has operative claims for conduct including fraud
and breach of fiduciary duty. Accepted as true, Plaintiff allegations could
show that Defendants engaged in “despicable conduct
which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of
the rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).)
Whether or not, in fact, Defendants’ conduct rises to this level is a factual
determination not properly made at this stage. 
 
            However, Defendants also challenge
Plaintiffs’ right to recover attorney fees, arguing they have not alleged any facts establishing entitlement to
recover their attorney’s fees from Moving Parties. The Court agrees. 
 
            Based on the foregoing, Defendants’
motion to strike is denied as to the prayer for punitive damages, but granted
as to attorneys fees. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  September   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517. 
 
 
 
 
 