 Case Number:  23STCV11578    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



M.M
 
        
  vs.
 
LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
 


 Case
  No.:  23STCV11578 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: October 3, 2024 



 
            Defendant’s
motion for summary judgment is DENIED. 
 
On 5/22/2023,
Plaintiff M.M (Plaintiff) filed suit against Los Angeles Unified School
District (Defendant or LAUSD), alleging: (1) negligence; (2) negligence; (3)
negligent hiring, retention, and supervision; and (4) negligent hiring,
retention, and supervision. 
 
            On
6/17/2024, Defendant moved for summary judgment of Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff cannot establish a claim against it because the undisputed
evidence indicates that the only incident of abuse to Plaintiff by Volk
occurred at Volk’s home, without any undertaking by the District and without
any direct supervision of a District employee.
 
Education
Code section 44808 provides: 
 
Notwithstanding
any other provision of this code, no school district, city or county board of
education, county superintendent of schools, or any officer or employee of such
district or board shall be responsible or in any way liable for the conduct or
safety of any pupil of the public schools at any time when such pupil is not on
school property, unless such district, board, or person has undertaken to
provide transportation for such pupil to and from the school premises, has
undertaken a school-sponsored activity off the premises of such school, has
otherwise specifically assumed such responsibility or liability or has failed
to exercise reasonable care under the circumstances. 
 
In the event
of such a specific undertaking, the district, board, or person shall be liable
or responsible for the conduct or safety of any pupil only while such pupil is
or should be under the immediate and direct supervision of an employee of such
district or board.
 
Courts have
interpreted section 44808 to mean that school districts are not responsible for
the safety of students outside school property absent a specific undertaking by
the school district. (Cerna v. City of Oakland (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th
1340, 1354-1355 [affirming summary judgment for public entity and school district
where public school students were struck by motorist where school district not
responsible for students off premises].) “We agree with the great weight of
authority that section 44808 ‘grants a district [and its employees] immunity
[for a student’s injuries] unless [the] student was [or should have been]
directly supervised during a specific undertaking.’” (LeRoy v. Yarboi
(2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 737, 743, 744.) Indeed, the “consensus of decisions from
the Court of Appeal is that section 44808 limits the liability of schools for
after-hours, off-campus activity, absent a specific undertaking by the school
district and direct supervision by a district employee.” (Id. at 743,
citing Cerna, supra, 161 Cal.App.4th at 1356.)
 
Here,
Defendant contends that Plaintiff’s deposition testimony, provided on February
8, 2023, confirmed that Volk allegedly abused Plaintiff off campus at Volk’s
home. (DDS, Fact No. 1.) Specifically, Defendant submitted evidence that
Plaintiff testified that one time during his ninth-grade year in 1980, he
stayed overnight at Volk’s home. (DSS, Fact No. 2.) During this stay, while he
was asleep in bed with Volk, he woke up and found Volk’s hands in his
underwear. (DSS, Fact No. 3.) Plaintiff “tried to block his hand away…[and] he
just snatched it away real quick.” (DSS, Fact No. 4.) Volk continued to lay in
the bed after this incident and woke up the next morning “like…nothing ever
happened.” (DSS, Fact No. 5.) This was the only time Plaintiff had been to
Volk’s house and was the only incident Volk’s abuse against Plaintiff. (DSS,
Fact No. 7.) It is undisputed that any alleged Volk abuse did not happen on
campus – it allegedly occurred at Volk’s house. (DDS, Fact No. 9.) The
after-hours off-campus abuse did not occur at the District’s direction or under
the District’s supervision. (DSS, Fact No. 10.)
 
Defendant’s
evidence supports a reasonable inference that Education Code section 44808
precludes Defendant’s liability for this incident. Accordingly, the burden
shifts to Plaintiff to disclose a triable issue of material fact. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendant is construing its immunity too
broadly, arguing:
 
The
Legislature’s primary intent was to address school district’s liability for
injuries to students before or after school hours while they are coming and
going to and from school. (Hoyem v. Manhattan Beach City Sch. Dist.
(1978) 22 Cal.3d 508, 517.) Unsurprisingly, the Court has thus held that this
protection is not a blanket immunity for all injuries that are incurred off-campus.
Contrary to Defendant’s contention, “the off-campus situs of an injury does not
ipso facto bar recovery from a school district.” (Id at 515; Satariano
v. Sleight (1942) 54 Cal.App.2d 278; Raymond v .Paradise Unified School
Dist. (1963) 218 Cal.App.2d 1, 10-11.) Rather, the California Supreme Court
has affirmed that “school districts must exercise reasonable care in
supervising their pupils while the pupils are on the school premises. A
district may be held liable if its breach of that duty proximately causes a
student’s injury.” (Hoyem, supra, 22 Cal.3d at 516.) “[C]ases in
which schools have been held to have a duty of care for the safety of students
off campus and after school ‘arise[] from circumstances where school personnel
did something on campus or failed in their supervisory duties on campus.’” (Guerrero
v. South Bay Union School Dist. (2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 264, 270 (quoting Hoyem,
supra, 22 Cal.3d at 508].) “The school districts in both Hoyem
and the instant case place the same emphasis on the situs of the injury as
controlling. The court in Hoyem pointed out, however, that when a school
district fails to properly supervise a student on school premises, the district
cannot automatically escape liability simply because the injury occurred off the
school property.” (Perna v. Conejo Valley Unified School Dist. (1983)
143 Cal.App.3d 292, 295.)
 
            (Opp.,
18: 7-25.) 
 
            Here,
Plaintiff argues that while the abuse in question occurred off campus, the
injury resulted from Defendant’s negligence while Plaintiff was on campus, and
thus does not fall within the scope of Defendant’s immunity. 
 
            In
support, Plaintiff submitted an extensive history of Volk’s sexual abuse of
students at George Washington Carver Middle School. The evidence shows an
established pattern of grooming and abuse on campus, followed by abuse at
Volk’s home. Plaintiff submitted evidence that abuse was repeatedly reported to
staff, and no action was taken. For example, Plaintiff submitted evidence that:

            
-        
When R.J. was 12 to 13 years old, while
at Carver Junior High School and a member of the cadet program during his
seventh-grade year in 1979 and 1980, Volk repeatedly and continuously sexually
abused and assaulted R.J. five to six times on the school campus (PSS No. 50).
 
-        
After Volk tried to anally penetrate
R.J., R.J. told Carver school counselor, Mr. Davis, at Mr. Davis’s office on
the school campus that Volk was “doing things” “inappropriate” to him and in a
manner that made R.J. feel “uncomfortable” (PSS No. 58). Mr. Davis told R.J.
that he would “look into it” and that “he would take care of it” (PSS No. 59).
When nothing happened one-and-a-half to two months after his first discussion
with Mr. Davis, R.J. had a second conversation with Mr. Davis in Mr. Davis’s
school office, this time telling Mr. Davis that Volk was “trying to have sex
with me” (PSS No. 60) Despite these reports by R.J. to Mr. Davis, Mr. Davis
merely listened and did not do anything else about it (PSS No. 61).
 
-        
After getting no results when reporting
Volk’s inappropriate sexual conduct towards R.J. to Mr. Davis, R.J. decided he
would report the conduct to school security officer Mr. Kerry (PSS No. 62).
While in Mr. Kerry’s office on the school campus, R.J. told Mr. Kerry that he
was in cadets and that there were things going on with Volk that made R.J. feel
uncomfortable including unwanted touching and the oral copulation incidents
wherein he told Mr. Kerry that Volk was making R.J. “go down on him” and that
Volk “went down on [R.J.]” (PSS No. 63). R.J. told Mr. Kerry that R.J. had told
Mr. Davis twice about the incidents and Mr. Kerry told R.J. that he would
discuss the matter with Mr. Davis and “look into it further” (PSS No. 64).
Despite telling Mr. Davis and Mr. Kerry about the sexual assault and abuse by Volk,
R.J. understood that nothing was being done by anyone at the school to stop
Volk from continuing to engage in those same behaviors with R.J. (PSS No. 65).
 
-        
From 1978 to 1981, another student E.J.,
was repeatedly and continuously sexually abused by Volk when he was 12 to 14
years old (PSS No. 28). Volk first sexually assaulted E.J. on approximately
September 30, 1978, during E.J.’s seventh grade year (PSS No. 31). Over the
course of the next three years Volk would commit repeated multiple sexual assaults
to E.J. by inter alia fondling E.J.’s penis and buttocks over and under his
clothing and attempting forced anal and oral penetration (PSS No. 32). On the
first incident of sexual abuse, Volk fondled E.J. genitalia and penis area over
his underwear under the guise of measuring E.J. for his cadet uniform (PSS No.
33).
 
-        
Following this incident E.J. reported
the incident to a counselor in the school’s administration and was told he had
to stay in the cadet program despite his request to get away from Volk. The
counselor also told E.J. that she would report the incident to the school
administration (PSS No. 34). The School Principal, Joyce Dent, called E.J. into
her office to explain the Volk encounter to her (PSS No. 35). E.J. reported to
the Principal that Volk had fondled him while Volk was measuring E.J. for his
cadet uniform (PSS No. 36). E.J. reported this same incident to a school nurse,
Ms. Jackson, who also informed him that she would report the incident to the
school administration (PSS No. 37). Following his report to Ms. Jackson, Ms.
Dent called E.J. into her office a second time for a follow-up interview (PSS
No. 38) Volk continued to sexually abuse E.J. for approximately three years. 
 
-        
Over the next three years, E.J.
reported 24 sexual assaults by Volk to school administrators, on average eight
incidents each school semester (PSS No. 39). E.J. reported these incidents to
the school resource officer, Mr. Martinez, who would open up investigations
each time sometimes involving Volk directly or would set up meetings for E.J.
with school counselors or the principal (PSS No. 40). E.J. also reported these
abuse incidents by Volk to his social studies teacher, Ms. Peterson, who had
noticed a decline in E.J.’s grades and school performance (PSS No. 41). E.J. told
Ms. Peterson that the abuse was being reported but it was nonetheless
continuing and nothing was being done to remove him from interaction with Volk;
despite being told that she would send the reports up the chain-of-command,
including principal Ms. Dent, the abuse continued to occur (PSS No. 42). Ms.
Peterson told E.J. that she informed the Dean of Students at the time, who he
spoke with, as well as Principal Dent, but the abuse continued (PSS No. 43)
 
-        
Another student O.B., attended George
Washington Carver Middle School as an eighth and ninth grader in 1968-1969 and
1969-1970 (PSS No. 21) During his eighth and ninth grade years Volk committed
acts sexual assault on O.B. at Volk’s residence including fondling O.B. over
and underneath O.B.’s clothes, performing oral copulation on O.B., and
attempting to sexually anally penetrate and sodomize O.B. (PSS No. 23) O.B.
reported the fondling and grabbing on stage incidents by Volk to a school P.E.
teacher, Mr. Davis, and a school administrator, Mr. Johnson (PSS No. 25). In
addition to telling Mr. Davis and Mr. Johnson about the fondling and grabbing
incidents on the stage in the school auditorium, O.B. told reported the abuse
to another school office worker or administrator (PSS No. 26). Mr. Davis and
Mr. Johnson expressed what O.B. considered to be “shock” upon hearing O.B.
retell the on-stage fondling and grabbing of his crotch and buttocks by Volk
(PSS No. 27).
 
As such,
Plaintiff has submitted extensive evidence to show that at least three students
were repeatedly abused by Volk on and off campus, and that this abuse was
repeatedly reported to administrators. Notably, this abuse all took place prior
to Plaintiff’s attendance at Carver. As such, Plaintiff’s evidence supports a
reasonable inference that by the time Plaintiff was victimized by Volk, LAUSD
was aware of the risk of child sexual assault and abuse posed by Volk, and
continued to allow Volk access to students. 

 
The Court
agrees that this raises a triable issue as to whether or not Volker’s sexual abuse
was reasonably foreseeable, and whether or not LAUSD’s failure to act can be
said to constitute a failure to properly supervise Plaintiff on school
premises, such that it caused his injury off campus. In other words, the Court
agrees with Plaintiff that his evidence supports a reasonable inference that
Defendant knew or should have known about Volk’s dangerous propensities, yet
allowed Volk to continue to have access to students. Volk’s access to, and
grooming of, Plaintiff on campus is inextricably linked to the abuse that took
place off campus such that on-campus wrongdoing can be said to have proximately
caused the off-campus wrongdoing. As such, there is a triable issue as to
whether or not Defendant failed to protect Plaintiff from foreseeable injury at
the hands of Volk.
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is denied. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  October   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 
 