 Case Number:  22STCV09756    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  57 DEFENDANT'S MOTION TO DISQUALIFY PLAINTIFF'S COUNSELPlaintiff
Barry Shy filed a complaint for professional negligence and breach of fiduciary
duty against his former attorney, Defendant Pedram Mansouri, arising from
Mansouri’s representation of Shy in proceedings for the dissolution of Shy’s
marriage to his then-wife Nicole Shy. 
The Court will refer her
Barry’s
claims against Mansouri are rooted in Mansouri’s handling of $175,000 that
Barry entrusted to Mansouri for payment to Nicole as part of an agreement that
Barry reached with Nicole in August 2018 to resolve the marital dissolution
proceeding -- an agreement that Nicole successfully moved to set aside shortly
after it was entered.  Specifically, Barry
alleges that Mansouri failed to inform him that, before the settlement agreement
was set aside, a creditor of Nicole’s had obtained a court order in September 2018
authorizing the creditor to impose a levy on the funds, which were in
Mansouri’s client-trust account; that Mansouri transferred the funds to Nicole’s
creditor in October 2018; and that Mansouri has refused to account to Barry
regarding Mansouri’s handling of the funds.  Barry further alleges that he did not learn of
this history of what happened to the funds that he had entrusted to Mansouri
until February 2022, a month after Barry and Nicole reached another agreement
to resolve the marital dissolution proceedings, when Barry asked Mansouri to
return the $175,000, but received from Mansouri only $57,000.  Under the January 2022 settlement agreement, Barry
again had to pay money to Nicole.  The
evidence indicates that Barry overpaid if one factors in the funds that he
entrusted to Mansouri and of which Mansouri returned only a portion.
Pending
before the Court is Mansouri’s motion to disqualify Steven Schuman, Barry’s
counsel in the malpractice litigation against Mansouri.  Mansouri contends that Schuman has a conflict
of interest in his representation of Barry in the malpractice action stemming
from Schuman’s representation of Barry for a period of time in the martial
dissolution proceedings after Mansouri substituted out as Barry’s attorney. Specifically,
Mansouri contends that Schuman could have taken steps on Barry’s behalf to set
aside the second settlement agreement after the asserted overpayment was
discovered, but instead, Schuman filed the malpractice on Barry’s behalf to
cover up his own failings.  Mansouri also
contends that Barry’s invocation of attorney-client privilege, based on communications
with Schuman, in response to certain of Mansouri’s discovery requests is
impeding Mansouri’s ability to defend himself in the malpractice action by
pointing out Schuman’s supposed failings.
Assuming
that Mansouri has standing to move to disqualify Schuman, the Court is denying the
motion for multiple reasons. 
First
and foremost, the evidence indicates that Schuman was no longer representing
Barry in the martial dissolution proceedings at the time of the second settlement
agreement in January 2022.  Schuman had
substituted out as Barry’s counsel in those proceedings over a year earlier.  Thus, Schuman could not have moved on Barry’s
behalf to set aside the second settlement agreement. 
Second,
there is no evidence that, during his representation of Barry in the marital dissolution
proceedings, Schuman was aware of Mansouri’s handling of the funds that Barry
had entrusted to Mansouri.  Rather,
Schuman apparently learned of that history in connection with Barry’s retention
of Schuman to initiate the legal malpractice against Mansouri.Third,
Barry's invocation of attorney-client privilege in response to certain of Mansouri’s
discovery requests is not a basis to disqualify Schuman.  Mansouri’s contention that the invocation of
the privilege is hamstringing his ability to point fingers at Schuman for
Schuman’s failings is overstated.
Fourth,
Mansouri delayed unreasonably in bringing the motion to  disqualify. 
The motion was filed on March 19, 2024, more than two years after Barry
sued Mansouri for malpractice, and just two months before the malpractice
action is set to go to trial.  Mansouri’s
argument that he filed the motion as soon as he learned of Schuman’s purported
conflict of interest lacks support in the record, which shows instead that Mansouri
was aware of the basis on which he is moving to disqualify Schuman quite a
while ago.  Disqualification of Schuman
at this very late date would prejudice Barry.DEFENDANT'S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHERESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIESMansouri has moved to compel Barry to provide further responses to four special interrogatories Mansouri propounded that request that Barry describe in detail the orders in the martial dissolution proceeding issued following the second settlement, Barry's appeal of the order setting aside the initial settlement in that proceeding, the issues on appeal, and the terms of the second settlement agreement.   In opposition to the motion, Barry contends that his initial responses provided sufficient information to Mansouri, who by virtue of his representation of Barry on appeal of the order setting aside the initial settlement and his status as attorney, should be to locate further information by finding the pertinent documents on court dockets.  Barry also contends that he should not have to do the work that Mansouri should do himself.   In reply, Mansouri says that he cannot find the documents on dockets.The Court is sympathetic to Barry's position.  It does seem a bit strange  that Mansouri is incapable of acting on the information that Barry has provided in the initial responses and thereby retrieve what he is looking for now from Barry through the motion.  That said, the Court is granting Mansouri's motion, in part, and directing Barry to provide the further responses that Mansouri seeks by May 8, 2024.  The Court is denying the motion to extent that Mansouri is seeking an order imposing sanctions against Barry in the form of attorney's fees that Mansouri incurred in filing the motion.  The Court is declining that request because, in the Court's view, Barry's  position was substantially justified.