  Case Number:  22STCV00763    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  57  
Plaintiff Bernards Builders, Inc. (“Bernards”) sued
Defendants Rescore Hollywood, LLC (“Rescore”) and Berkley Insurance Company (“Berkley”)
in connection with a mixed-use project called “Rise Hollywood” that Bernards,
as a general contractor, agreed to construct for Rescore.  Rescore has cross-claimed against Bernards. Two
subcontractors on the Rise Hollywood Project have brought suits their own.  Specifically, Carpet U.S.A, Ltd. (“Carpet U.S.A”)
has sued Bernards, Rescore, and Berkley in case number 22STCV07868 (“the Carpet
USA Action”), and Texim, Inc. (“Texim”) has sued Bernards, Rescore, and Berkley
in case number 22STCV19730 (“the Texim Action”).  All three actions have been deemed related
and are being litigated in Department 57.  Bernards has now moved to consolidate the
three actions, with the Bernards Action as the lead case.   Rescore and Berkley have joined in the
motion.  Carpet USA and Texim have
opposed the motion.  The Court is
granting the motion. 

Motions to consolidate are governed by Code of Civil Procedure Section 1048.  It provides as follows: 
 
(a) When
actions involving a common question of law or fact are pending before the
court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any or all the matters in issue
in the actions; it may order all the actions consolidated and it may make such
orders concerning proceedings therein as may tend to avoid unnecessary costs or
delay.
 
(b) The
court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate
trials will be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a separate trial
of any cause of action, including a cause of action asserted in a
cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any number of causes of action
or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury required by the Constitution
or a statute of this state or of the United States.
 
The purpose of consolidation is to avoid unnecessary costs or
delay, avoid duplication of procedure, particularly in the proof of issues
common to both action, and avoid inconsistent results by hearing and deciding
common issues together.  (See Estate
of Baker (1982) 131 Cal.App.3d 471, 485.) 
Disposition of a motion to consolidate rests in the trial court's sound
discretion and will not be reversed except upon a clear showing of abuse of
discretion.  (Feliner v. Steinbaum
(1955) 132 Cal.App.2d 509, 511.)  The following
factors generally inform the determination on whether consolidation is warranted:
(1) whether granting consolidation would delay the trial of any of the cases
involved; (2) whether joining the actions involved would make the trial too
confusing or complex for a jury; and (3) whether consolidation would adversely
affect the rights of any party. (See State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. v.
Superior Court (1956) 47 Cal.2d 428, 430–431.) 
 
Bernards has demonstrated that the three actions present
essentially similar and overlapping issues related to the Rise Hollywood
project based on similar and overlapping pleadings.  The claims of the subcontractors Carpet U.S.A.
and Texim involve issues of nonpayment, delay, disruption, wrongfully denied
change orders, and flawed designs that directly relate to the dispute between Bernards
and Rescore.  In the Court’s view, consolidation
of the three actions will prevent inconsistent outcomes and promote judicial
economy by avoiding redundant procedures for the parties, multiple panels of jurors,
and the Court itself. 
 
The Court is not persuaded by the arguments of Carpet U.S.A and
Texim that their claims are sufficiently distinct from the issues in the Bernards
Action such that the Carpet U.S.A. and Texim Actions should proceed on their
separate paths.  Nor does the Court
believe that consolidation will adversely affect Carpet U.S.A. and Texim by unduly
delaying trial on their respective claims arising out of the Rise Hollywood
Project.  In fact, the start date of the
trial in the Texim Action already is the same start date for the trial in the
Bernards Action.  To be sure, trial in
the Carpet U.S.A. Action is set to start five months earlier than the trials in
the other two actions.  The Court has
concluded, however, that the delay for Carpet U.S.A.  in getting its claims to trial do not outweigh
the interests that support consolidation of the Carpet U.S.A. Action with the
other two Actions.  