 Case Number:  24SMCV02077    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


August 13, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV02077




MOTIONS


Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant American Honda Motor Co.




OPPOSING PARTIES


Plaintiffs Bertha Alcatraz De Barbosa and Alejandro
  Barbosa aka Alejandro Barboza



 
MOTIONS
 
On May 1, 2024, Plaintiffs Bertha Alcatraz De Barbosa and Alejandro
Barbosa aka Alejandro Barboza (“Plaintiffs”) filed suit against Defendant
American Honda Motor Co., Inc. (“Defendant”) alleging two causes of action for
(1) violations of the Song-Beverly Act, and (2) fraudulent
inducement-concealment.  
 
Defendant demurs to the second cause of action for failure to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure, section 430.10, subdivision (e). 
Defendant also moves to strike Plaintiffs’ claim for punitive
damages.  
 
Plaintiffs oppose both motions and Defendants reply.
 
REQUESTS
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
1.     DEFENDANT’S
REQUEST
 
            Defendant requests judicial notice
of the following documents it transmitted to the National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration (“NHTSA”):
 
1. Safety Recall Report to NHTSA published in May
2015 cited at Paragraph 32 of Plaintiff’s Complaint. See NHTSA publications
regarding recalls: 
 
·
https://www.nhtsa.gov/vehicle/2014/ACURA/RLX#recalls; and 
 
·
https://static.nhtsa.gov/odi/rcl/2015/RMISC-15V301-8257.pdf, last visited July
10, 2024.
 
2. Honda Tech Line Summary Article ATS 170102
published in January 2017 cited at Paragraph 51 of Plaintiff’s Complaint. See
NHTSA’s publication of ATS 170102: 
 
·
https://static.nhtsa.gov/odi/tsbs/2017/MC-10098927-5233.pdf, last visited July
10, 2024. 
 
3. Honda Tech Line Summary Article ATS 170204
published in February 2017 cited at Paragraph 53 of Plaintiff’s Complaint. See
NHTSA’s publication of ATS 170204: 
 
·
https://static.nhtsa.gov/odi/tsbs/2017/MC-10108698-9999.pdf, last visited July
10, 2024. 
 
4. Honda Technical Service Bulletin 17-064
published in September 2017 cited at Paragraph 55 of Plaintiff’s Complaint. See
NHTSA’s publication of Technical Service Bulletin 17- 064 on September 3, 2017:

 
·
https://static.nhtsa.gov/odi/tsbs/2017/MC-10118208-9999.pdf, last visited July
10, 2024.
 
            Judicial notice may be taken of “official
acts of the legislative, executive, and judicial departments of the United
States and of any state in the United States” pursuant to Evidence Code section
452, subdivision (c).  Judicial notice
may also be taken of “facts and propositions that are not reasonably subject to
dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate determination by resort to
sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy” pursuant to subdivision (h).
 
            Here, although these reports,
articles, and technical service bulletins appear on the NHTSA’s official
website, they represent information that Honda reported to the agency; the
content of the reports do not represent an “official act” of the NHTSA itself.
 
            Notwithstanding, the fact that these
documents appear on the NHTSA’s website is not reasonably subject to dispute
and is capable of immediate and accurate determination by resort to the NHTSA’s
website.  However, while the Court can
take judicial notice of the fact that these reports are published on the
NHTSA’s website, the Court cannot take judicial notice of the hearsay
statements contained in the documents.  Defendant
appears to rely on these documents for the proposition that this information was
released to the public.  (See Demurrer at
p. 11.)  Therefore, the Court takes
judicial notice of the fact that this information was publicly published on the
NHTSA’s website.
 
2.     PLAINTIFFS’
REQUEST
 
            Plaintiffs request judicial notice
of a conformed copy of the second amended complaint filed in Dhital v.
Nissan North America, Inc., No RG19009260 in Alameda County.  
 
Judicial notice may be taken
of records of any court in this state. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).) 
Because the Dhital complaint is a court record within this state,
the Court may take judicial notice of it. 
(Ibid.)   However, “while courts are free to take
judicial notice of the existence of each document in a court file, including
the truth of results reached, they may not take judicial notice of the truth of
hearsay statements in decisions and court files.  Courts may not take judicial notice of
allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation reports in court records
because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute and therefore require
formal proof.”  (Lockley v. Law Office
of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875,
882 [cleaned up].)  
 
Accordingly, the Court takes
judicial notice of the existence of the Dhital complaint and the facts that
it was filed and contains the allegations listed therein, but not the truth of those
allegations.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if on consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
Defendant contends the second cause of action for fraudulent
inducement-concealment fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action because (1) it is preempted by federal law; (2) Plaintiffs fail to
allege a duty to disclose; (3) the facts allege contradict the claim that
Defendant had “exclusive knowledge” of the defect; and (4) the cause of action
is not pled with sufficient particularity.
 
                                                        
i.         
Preemption
 
Defendant first argues that Plaintiffs’
fraudulent concealment claim is premised upon Defendant’s alleged failure to
disclose information that is protected by federal law.  Specifically, the National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration (“NHTSA”), which regulates vehicle safety, disclosure,
and recall information, requires manufacturers to report to it various Early
Warning Reporting (“EWR”) data, including incidents, notices, consumer
complaints, warranty claims, and field reports relating to its vehicles’ safety
and performance.  The NHTSA has promulgated
a rule that classes the raw EWR data “on production numbers (other than for
light vehicles), the numbers of consumer complaints, warranty claims and field
reports, copies of field report documents, and common green tire identifier
information are confidential.”  (Confidential
Business Information, 72 Fed. R. 59434-01.) 

 
As such, Defendant argues that
Plaintiffs’ concealment claim seeks to hold Defendant liable for failing to
disclose the confidential business information, and therefore the fraudulent
concealment claim is preempted by federal law (i.e., the NHTSA’s
regulations.)  Specifically, Defendant
argues that because the allegations in the Complaint regarding Defendant’s
exclusive and/or superior knowledge of the defect are premised on this raw EWR
data Defendant provided to the NHTSA, the second cause of action effectively
accuses Defendant of failing to disclose the raw EWR data.
 
But the Complaint seeks to
hold Defendant liable for failing to disclose that the 2021 Honda Accord had the
“Honda Sensing” defect, which is alleged to be the same defect as the 2016-2020
Honda Accord models and the 2017-2020 Honda CR-V vehicles:
 
11. AMERICAN HONDA manufactured and/or
distributed vehicles throughout the United States, including the Subject
Vehicle, equipped with defective computerized driver-assistance safety systems
called “Honda Sensing”. Honda Sensing relies on a radar sensor (near the lower
front bumper), an interior camera (near the rearview mirror), along with
computers and other technology. The autonomous braking system within Honda
Sensing is called Collision Mitigation Braking System (or “CMBS”). The
autonomous braking works to avoid front-end collisions by detecting vehicle
speed and the speed of other vehicles and objects on the road— and can
automatically deploy the brakes to avoid a front-end collision. Specifically,
the Collision Mitigation Braking System “alert[s] the driver of a potential
collision and take[s] steps to help mitigate the severity of a frontal
collision if the system determines it to be unavoidable.”
 
12. The CMBS is capable of providing light brake
application or strong brake application. According to Honda, the CMBS activates
when: 
 
• The speed difference between your vehicle and a
vehicle or pedestrian detected in front of you is about 3 mph (5 km/h) and over
with a chance of a collision; 
 
• Your vehicle speed is about 62 mph (100 km/h)
or less and the system determines there is a chance of a collision with another
vehicle or a pedestrian in front of you; 
 
• Your vehicle speed is above 62 mph (100 km/h),
and the system determines there is a chance of a collision with a vehicle
detected in front of you traveling in your same direction. 
 
13. Computerized driver-assisting safety systems
generally, and autonomous braking systems like CMBS in particular, must undergo
careful testing and inspection to ensure they work properly. Otherwise, the
systems put lives at risk. These features were originally designed and promoted
to avoid accidents or greatly minimize the effects of a collision. 
 
14. These defective computerized driver-assisting
safety systems were installed in the Subject Vehicle and in all model year
2017-2020 Honda CR-V Vehicles and the 2016-2020 Honda Accord. 
 
15. Honda Sensing is standard equipment on these
vehicles and is touted by Honda as “an intelligent suite of safety and
driver-assistive technologies designed to alert you to things you might miss
while driving.” 
 
16. The Honda Sensing system suffers from a
defect that causes the various subsystems within it to malfunction dangerously
while the vehicles are driven. This defect impedes the systems’ ability to
reliably and accurately detect and appropriately respond to conditions on the
roadway, causing malfunctions of the adaptive cruise control, the
lane-departure system, and – most severely – the CMBS.
 
17. Specifically, Honda Sensing suffers from
frequent malfunctions, causing (1) numerous warning messages to intermittently
appear on the vehicles’ instrument cluster alerting drivers to a problem with
Honda Sensing safety and driver-assist system, (2) the vehicles to fluctuate
their highway speed without warning when adaptive cruise control is set, (3)
the vehicles to alert drivers to apply brakes immediately although no
obstruction is present, (4) the vehicles to apply brakes although no
obstruction is present, (5) the vehicles to falsely alert drivers that they
fail to drive their vehicle within road lane markings, and (6) the vehicles to
steer themselves outside lane of travel. 
 
18. As a result, drivers are brought to abrupt
halts in traffic, and trailing vehicles have to slam on the brakes or swerve
dangerously out of their lanes to avoid a crash. 
 
19. The Honda Sensing Defect causes unsafe
driving conditions because they cause Plaintiff(s) and the Class Vehicles’
drivers to become distracted. These conditions are hazardous because they
severely affect their ability to control the vehicle and cause the vehicle to
behave in unexpected and unpredictable manner.
 
20. According to a “Job’s Aid” Honda issued to
its dealers, certain environmental and roadway conditions can affect operation
of Honda Sensing safety and driver-assist system and include the following: Bad
weather such as rain, fog, snow, etc.; Sudden changes between light and dark,
such as an entrance or exit of a tunnel; Little contrast between objects and
the background; Driving into low sunlight (at dawn or dusk); Strong light
reflected onto the roadway; Driving in the shadows of trees, buildings, etc.;
Roadway objects or structures misinterpreted as vehicles and pedestrians;
Reflections on the interior of the windshield; Driving at night or in a dark
condition such as a tunnel [sic]; Driving on a snowy or wet roadway (obscured
lane marking, vehicle tracks, reflected lights, road spray, high contrast);
Driving on curvy, winding, or undulating roads; and Hilly road or approaching
the crest of a hill. 
 
21. These “environmental” and “roadway”
conditions that can cause fault with the Sensing encompass nearly every
condition in which consumers operate the vehicle. Honda’s Owner’s Guide failed
to disclose that Sensing can fail due to the aforementioned normal everyday
driving conditions and Honda failed to make such disclosure to Plaintiff.
 
22. Plaintiff(s) reasonably expected that the
Subject Vehicle would not experience computerized driver-assistance safety
system malfunctions and collision mitigation braking system malfunctions. These
are reasonable and objective consumer expectations. 
 
[…]
 
110. AMERICAN HONDA and its agents intentionally
concealed and failed to disclose facts relating to the Honda Sensing Defect as
explained in detail above. 
 
111. AMERICAN HONDA was the only party with
knowledge of the Honda Sensing Defect. Information regarding the defect was
never made publicly available, nor did Defendant publicly or privately disclose
any of the information to Plaintiff. AMERICAN HONDA had exclusive knowledge of
the defect as described in detail above.
 
(Complaint at ¶¶ 11-19, 110-111, footnotes
omitted.)
 
Plaintiffs do not seek to have
Defendant disclose any of the underlying EWR data that made Defendant aware of
the defect.  Rather, Plaintiffs point to
the underlying EWR data as evidence that Defendant had been aware of the “Honda
Sensing” defect for years, yet continued to install it in its vehicles,
including the 2021 Honda Accord that Plaintiffs purchased, without disclosing
that defect to consumers:
 
23. AMERICAN HONDA knew or should have known
about the safety hazard posed by the Honda Sensing Defect before the sale of
vehicles such as the Subject Vehicle from pre-market testing, consumer
complaints to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (“NHTSA”),
consumer complaints made directly to AMERICAN HONDA and its dealers, testing
conducted in response to those complaints, high failure rates and replacement
part sales data, and other sources which drove AMERICAN HONDA to issue
Technical Service Bulletins acknowledging this defect. AMERICAN HONDA should
not have sold, leased, or marketed vehicles equipped with the Honda Sensing
Defect without a full and complete disclosure of the defect, and should have
voluntarily recalled all vehicles equipped with the Honda Sensing Defect long
ago. 
 
24. Despite knowing about the Honda Sensing
Defect and the danger it poses to consumers and other parties, AMERICAN HONDA
sold, leased, and continues to sell and lease, vehicles equipped with the
computerized driver-assistance safety systems called “Honda Sensing” which
suffers from the Honda Sensing Defect. 
 
25. AMERICAN HONDA knew about the Honda Sensing
Defects contained in 2017-2020 Honda CR-V Vehicles and 2016-2020 Honda Accord
vehicles equipped with Honda Sensing, along with the attendant safety problems
and associated costs, and concealed the existence of those defects from
Plaintiff(s) and other consumers prior to the time they purchased or leased
their respective Accord/CR-V vehicles. AMERICAN HONDA continued this
concealment from Plaintiff and other consumers following their respective sales
or leases. AMERICAN HONDA’s concealment caused Plaintiff and other consumers to
experience the effects of the Honda Sensing Defect throughout the life of the
Subject Vehicle, including during use within the respective warranty periods. 
 
26. AMERICAN HONDA has chosen financial gain at
the expense of consumer safety by failing to disclose its knowledge of this
critical safety defect to consumers.
 
27. The Subject Vehicle was purchased by
Plaintiff(s) on July 1, 2021. 
 
28. Upon information and belief, AMERICAN HONDA
was aware, or should have been aware, of the Honda Sensing Defect present in
the Subject Vehicle before it was purchased by Plaintiff. 
 
29. American Honda and the rest of the automotive
industry have known for years that driver-assisting safety systems, including
automatic braking systems, must be calibrated appropriately, and vetted with
testing and inspection before sale, to ensure that they are functioning
properly and to ensure there are no false alarms (where the autonomous braking
system activates even though there is no impending risk of a collision). 
 
30. The National Transportation Safety Board, for
example, released a special investigation report in 2015 analyzing the use of
autonomous braking systems. As the report stated, autonomous braking systems
are to activate “only in critical situations.”4 The report also found that such
collision avoidance systems “depend[] heavily on the accuracy and timeliness of
detection, which relies on the quality of the installed sensor, camera, or
vision algorithm detecting targets.” (Id.) 
 
31. Among the potential problems identified in
the report was the possibility of false alarms, with “false alarm” defined as
“the detection of a conflict when none is present.” (Id.) The report noted that
among the limitations of a radar-based system is the reality that there will be
“[i]ncreased interference from other sources resulting in more frequent
misidentifications (e.g., identifying a bridge as a conflict vehicle).” (Id.) 
 
32. In the month prior to this report coming out,
in May of 2015, Honda recalled thousands of 2014-2015 Acura MDX and RLX
vehicles due to a defect in the CMBS whereby the system may unexpectedly
activate while in operation. Honda’s Safety Recall Report provided to NHTSA
stated that “[i]n certain driving conditions, the Collision Mitigation Braking
System (CMBS) may unexpectedly activate while operating the vehicle. In rare
cases, the system may interpret certain roadside objects, such as metal fences
or metal guardrails, as obstacles and apply emergency braking through the
CMBS.” Honda further acknowledged that “If the CMBS applies unexpected
emergency braking force during normal operation, it could increase the risk of
a crash.” Honda issued a software update to remedy this issue. 
 
33. In June of 2015, Honda Australia also
recalled several thousand 2013- 2015 Accords and 2014-2015 CR-Vs for the same
issue. 
 
34. Although, on information and belief, these
two recalls concern a version of the CMBS prior to its integration into Honda
Sensing, the issues are emblematic of the problem at the core of the Honda
Sensing Defect. The CMBS system essentially attempts to replicate human
qualities—the ability to see the outside world and process such inputs in a
meaningful way. Just as the CMBS in the Class Vehicles, the CMBS in these
recalled vehicles was unable to properly process these inputs on a consistent
basis. 
 
35. As Honda has long known, Class Vehicles’
suite of driver-assisting safety systems, including the autonomous braking
system, are dangerously defective. Drivers report that they frequently see an
error message on their dashboard stating there is a problem with the CMBS. With
this error, the CMBS (and other features including adaptive cruise control) may
be deactivated. Worse, the CMBS frequently causes Class Vehicles to brake
without warning, even when driving at high speed and with no plausible risk of
collision ahead. This can be extremely dangerous—among other things, it creates
a risk that vehicles trailing behind will either rear-end the Class Vehicle,
have to slam on the brakes themselves, or swerve out of their lane to avoid a
collision. 
 
36. As one news report put it, there are “rising
concerns that the system will brake for no reason at all”; thus, Honda’s
“Collision mitigation braking assist … applies brake pressure when an
unavoidable collision is determined or when an ‘unavoidable’ situation is
created out of thin air by the robot mind of your car.” 
 
37. Although AMERICAN HONDA knew of such Sensing
faults and limitations from roughly the time the 2016 Vehicles became available
for sale, and certainly at least as of November 16, 2017, when it published to
its dealers Version 2 of the Sensing Job’s Aid (and sooner as Honda gathered
information and data to prepare such publication), Honda has not disclosed such
Sensing faults and limitations to consumers. 
 
38. As early as 2016, AMERICAN HONDA was or
should also have been aware through premarket testing, consumer complaints to
the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (“NHTSA”), consumer
complaints made directly to AMERICAN HONDA and its dealers, dealership repair
records, warranty and post-warranty claims, high failure rates caused by the
Honda Sensing Defect, technical service bulletins (“TSBs”), and other sources. 
 
39. AMERICAN HONDA’s pre-sale durability testing
includes five metrics that allegedly “ensure high quality” by conducting
“comprehensive quality assurance activities from the dual perspectives of
design and manufacturing”.  Honda admits
that its “production departments implement manufacturing controls to keep
variability within applicable standards based on drawings and develop
production processes so that all workers can continue to achieve a consistent
level of quality.” (Id.) 
 
40. American Honda established a “Quality Center”
whose stated goals include “quickly detecting … quality issues when they
occur.” Honda’s vigilance in searching for all early signs of defects in its
vehicles is enhanced by the use of sophisticated systems for detecting emerging
vehicle problems as well as the devotion of resources and personnel to
detecting those problems as early as possible. In modern day vehicle
production, failures are typically measured per thousand vehicles or sometimes
even per hundred thousand vehicles. As a result, defect trends are frequently
identified after just a handful of reported failures. 
 
41. Recognizing that automatic braking features
require “the ultimate degree of precision,” Honda conducted self-described
“endless testing” of these systems, which took “[m]any days.”8 According to
Honda, its repeated “[b]rutal tests” made test drivers carsick after
experiencing sudden braking “over and over.” (Id.)
 
42. In prior models equipped with CMBS, Honda
employed two types of track tests specifically to evaluate the CMBS in “real
world” situations. The testing involved a test driver driving toward targets
and then evaluating whether the system reacted as intended. Honda used a
combination of functionality and efficacy tests to estimate the effectiveness
of the system in real-life situations9 . Honda also conducted tests on public
roads to determine the accuracy of the system’s functions, particularly in different
weather conditions10. Honda tested these systems “in as many situations and
conditions as they could imagine.” (Id.) 
 
43. Thus, AMERICAN HONDA knew or should have
known of the Honda Sensing Defect through its comprehensive quality assurance
activities and manufacturing controls.
 
44. NHTSA provides a system for motor vehicle
owners to report complaints relating to safety defects that pose a risk of
accidents, injuries, and even death in vehicles manufactured or imported in the
United States, including safety defects relating to Honda Sensing Defect
malfunctions. The safety defect complaints are entered into NHTSA’s consumer
complaint automated database, which manufacturers can access. NHTSA also
provides these consumer complaints to the vehicle’s manufacturer, including
AMERICAN HONDA. All manufacturers including AMERICAN HONDA undoubtedly review
NHTSA consumer complaints, as this information is used to determine if a recall
should be issued. 
 
45. In fact, Federal law requires automakers like
Honda to be in close contact with NHTSA regarding potential auto defects,
including imposing a legal requirement (backed by criminal penalties)
compelling the confidential disclosure of defects and related data by
automakers to NHTSA, including field reports, customer complaints, and warranty
data. See TREAD Act, Pub. L. No. 106-414, 114 Stat. 1800 (2000). 
 
46. Automakers have a legal obligation to
identify and report emerging safety-related defects to NHTSA under the Early
Warning Report requirements. (Id.) Similarly, automakers should and do monitor
NHTSA databases for consumer complaints regarding their automobiles as part of
their ongoing obligation to identify potential defects in their vehicles,
including safety-related defects.
 
47. AMERICAN HONDA has received dozens if not
hundreds of complaints submitted to the Office of Defects Investigation (“ODI”)
of NHTSA, since as early as December of 2016, regarding the Honda Sensing
Defect. 
 
48. Below is a small sample of the complaints
AMERICAN HONDA has received that most certainly put AMERICAN HONDA on notice of
the Honda Sensing Defect as early as 2016:
 
[omitted]
 
49. Given its use of prerelease testing—which
includes driving the vehicles for many miles— Honda surely discovered the Honda
Sensing Defect before it sold the first-Class Vehicle. As the driver complaints
to the NHTSA above show, the Class Vehicles often experience false alarms and
dangerous, unnecessary braking shortly after drivers purchase or lease them.
Given the immediacy with which the Defect often manifests, it would be nearly
impossible for Honda to put Class Vehicles to market without discovering the
Defect beforehand through its pre-release testing efforts (the results of which
are exclusively within Honda’s control). 
 
(Complaint
at ¶¶ 23-49 [footnotes omitted].)
 
            Because Plaintiffs point to the underlying
EWR data to demonstrate Defendant’s prior knowledge of the defect, and fault
Defendant for failing to disclose the defect, and not the underlying EWR data, the
Court overrules Defendant’s demurrer on the basis of preemption.
 
                                                      
ii.         
Duty
 
“The required elements for
fraudulent concealment are (1) concealment or suppression of a material fact;
(2) by a defendant with a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3) the
defendant intended to defraud the plaintiff by intentionally concealing or
suppressing the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as he or she did if he or she had known of the concealed or
suppressed fact; and (5) plaintiff sustained damage as a result of the
concealment or suppression of the fact.” 
(Hambrick v. Healthcare Partners Medical Group, Inc. (2015) 238
Cal.App.4th 124, 162.)
 
“There are four circumstances
in which nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when
the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the
defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff;
(3) when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff;
and (4) when the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses
some material facts.”  (Bigler-Engler
v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 311 (hereafter Bigler-Engler).)  In the absence of a fiduciary duty, “[a] duty
to disclose facts arises only when the parties are in a relationship that gives
rise to the duty, such as seller and buyer, employer and prospective employee,
doctor and patient, or parties entering into any kind of contractual
arrangement.”  (Ibid.)  
 
Here, Plaintiffs allege
Defendant actively concealed the defect, both from the NHTSA and the public:
 
25. AMERICAN HONDA knew about the Honda Sensing
Defects contained in 2017-2020 Honda CR-V Vehicles and 2016-2020 Honda Accord
vehicles equipped with Honda Sensing, along with the attendant safety problems
and associated costs, and concealed the existence of those defects from
Plaintiff(s) and other consumers prior to the time they purchased or leased
their respective Accord/CR-V vehicles. AMERICAN HONDA continued this
concealment from Plaintiff and other consumers following their respective sales
or leases. AMERICAN HONDA’s concealment caused Plaintiff and other consumers to
experience the effects of the Honda Sensing Defect throughout the life of the
Subject Vehicle, including during use within the respective warranty periods.
 
[…]
 
50. A series of Technical Service Bulletins
(“TSBs”), Tech Line Summary Articles and Engineering Requests for Investigation
issued quietly by Honda to its dealers since the introduction of Honda Sensing
provide further evidence of Honda’s pre-sale knowledge of the Honda Sensing
Defect. On information and belief, although these bulletins purport to address
issues limited to particular vehicles, the Honda Sensing System in all Class
Vehicles is similarly defective. Honda has attempted to define problems with Honda
Sensing narrowly to avoid the liability and expense of acknowledging the true
nature and scope of the problem. For this reason, Honda Sensing issues continue
to plague the Class Vehicles.
 
51. For example, in January of 2017, Honda issued
ATS 170102, titled “Radar Obstructed Message in the Driver Information
Interface”. Therein, Honda explained: “If you see the message Some Driver
Assist Systems Cannot Operate: Radar Obstructed in the driver information
interface, it means something is blocking or covering the millimeter wave radar
in the front grille, preventing it from detecting objects ahead of the vehicle.
You may also see this message when driving in rain, snow, fog, etc. It’s not uncommon
for it to intermittently come on when driving under those conditions… Although
this info is covered in the owner’s guide and owner’s manual, some customers
may thing (sic) there’s something wrong with the vehicle when they see that
message. Be sure to pass this info along to the service advisors so they can
educate their customers.” 
 
52. On information and belief, this Tech Line
Summary Article exemplifies Honda’s attempts to explain away and cover up
issues with the CMBS rather than acknowledge the existence of the Defect.
 
53. Only a month later, in February of 2017,
Honda issued ATS 170204 titled “ACC, Collision Mitigation Braking System, and
Road Departure Mitigation, Indicators On with DTC P2583-76”. Honda blamed the
factory’s radar aiming process and instructed dealers to re-aim the radar.
Therein, Honda explained: Some early production vehicles undergoing PDI or
coming in with low mileage may have this issue: 
 
o The ACC (Adaptive Cruise Control), Collision
Mitigation Braking System, and Road Departure Mitigation indicators are on. o
DTC P2583-76 (temporary stop of integrated driver support system
 
o DTC B2A60-98 (multipurpose camera unit
temperature too high) is set. 
[misalignment millimeter wave radar] is set. 
 
o The driver information interface shows Adaptive
Cruise Control Problem, Collision Mitigation System Problem, and Road Departure
Mitigation System Problem messages. 
 
54. The very next month on March 29, 2017, Honda
issued an Engineering Request for Investigation, titled “2017 CR-V MIL On with
DTC P2583-76 Stored.” In this Request, Honda explains that it had received
certain customer complaints of the Malfunction Indicator Lamp (MIL) on with DTC
P2583-76 stored and “would like to collect specific parts from the vehicle
prior to [the repair engineer] attempting a repair of any kind” in order to
“fully understand the cause.” 
 
55. On September 23, 2017, Honda issued TSB
17-064 titled “MID Displays ACC, LKAY, RDM, Brake Warnings and Other Listed
Symptoms.” This TSB states: There is an internal issue with the millimeter wave
radar software, which may lead to one or more of the following symptoms: 
 
o The millimeter wave radar is improperly
calibrated resulting in DTC P2583-76 (temporary stop of integrated driver
support system [misalignment millimeter wave radar]. 
 
o Front radar blindness due to severe weather
conditions (rain, snow, fog, etc.) may trigger a sporadic false Radar
Obstructed message on the MID. 
 
o The vehicle speed fluctuates at highway speeds
when adaptive cruise control is set. 
 
o DTC C0051-54 (steering angle neutral position
learning incomplete), U041-68 (brake actuator malfunction), and U0416-92
(temporary stop of integrated driver support system [rejected control request
by VSA system]) are set after the battery is replaced, disconnected, or jumped.

 
o During radar aiming, the Radar Obstructed
message appears on the MID throughout the aiming procedure. o During radar
aiming, 4 and No Target are not displayed on the MID.
 
o DTC B2A60-98 (multipurpose camera unit
temperature too high) is set
 
56. As a corrective action, this TSB provides for
a software update to the millimeter wave radar unit. Such purported fixes are
common in the auto industry because they are inexpensive, but they are often
ineffective. 
 
57. As evident from Plaintiff’s experiences and
those of other consumers, the software updates and millimeter wave radar
re-aiming fail to correct the Honda Sensing Defect. The millimeter wave radar
re-aiming procedure is complex and, when not done correctly, only contributes
to the problem instead of correcting it. Furthermore, Honda knows that Sensing
technology simply does not work in most ordinary road conditions.
 
[…]
 
67. AMERICAN HONDA had and continues to have a
duty to disclose the Sensing Defect and the likelihood of the associated
out-of-pocket repair costs to Plaintiff(s) and other consumers because: 1) the
defect poses an unreasonable safety hazard; 2) AMERICAN HONDA has exclusive
knowledge that is not reasonably discoverable by Plaintiff(s) and consumers; 3)
AMERICAN HONDA has actively concealed the defect; 4) AMERICAN HONDA made
representations but did not disclose facts that materially qualified the facts
disclosed, or that rendered its disclosure likely to mislead.
 
[…]
 
71. While HONDA AMERICA has been fully aware of
the Honda Sensing Defect affecting vehicles such as the Subject Vehicle,
AMERICAN HONDA and its agents actively concealed the existence and nature of
the Honda Sensing Defect from Plaintiff(s) at the time of purchase, repair, and
thereafter. Specifically, AMERICAN HONDA failed to disclose or actively
concealed, at and after the time of purchase or repair: 
 
a. any and all known material defects or material
nonconformity of the Subject Vehicle, including the defects relating to the
computerized driver-assistance safety system, and collision mitigation braking
system; 
 
b. that the Subject Vehicle, including its
computerized driver-assistance safety system, and collision mitigation braking
system, was not in good working order, was defective, and was not fit for the
intended purposes; and, 
 
c. that Subject Vehicle and its computerized
driver-assistance safety system, and collision mitigation braking system were
defective, despite the fact that AMERICAN HONDA learned of such defects through
alarming failure rates, and customer complaints.
 
[…]
 
110. AMERICAN HONDA and its agents intentionally
concealed and failed to disclose facts relating to the Honda Sensing Defect as
explained in detail above.
 
(Complaint ¶¶ 25, 50-57, 67, 71, 110.)
 
Further, “Under California
law, a vendor has a duty to disclose material facts not only to immediate
purchasers, but also to subsequent purchasers when the vendor has reason to
expect that the item will be resold.”  (OCM
Principal Opportunities Fund, L.P. v. CIBC World Markets Corp. (2007) 157
Cal.App.4th 835, 839.)  In the context of
automobile manufacturers, the appellate court has explained:
 
In its
short argument on this point in its appellate brief, Nissan argues plaintiffs
did not adequately plead the existence of a buyer-seller relationship between
the parties, because plaintiffs bought the car from a Nissan dealership (not
from Nissan itself). At the pleading stage (and in the absence of a more
developed argument by Nissan on this point), we conclude plaintiffs’
allegations are sufficient. Plaintiffs alleged that they bought the car from a
Nissan dealership, that Nissan backed the car with an express warranty, and
that Nissan's authorized dealerships are its agents for purposes of the sale of
Nissan vehicles to consumers. In light of these allegations, we decline to hold
plaintiffs’ claim is barred on the ground there was no relationship requiring
Nissan to disclose known defects.
 
(Dhital v. Nissan N. Am. Inc. (2022)
84 Cal.App.5th 828, 843-844.)
 
            Here,
Plaintiff alleges, “The Subject Vehicle was purchased by Plaintiff(s) on
July 1, 2021 from an authorized AMERICAN HONDA dealership in Culver City.”  (Complaint ¶ 84.)  
 
Thus, Plaintiffs adequately
allege Defendant owed a duty to disclose the defect, yet actively concealed it.
 
                                                    
iii.         
Exclusive Knowledge
 
Defendant argues (1) the examples purportedly demonstrating
Defendant’s knowledge of the defect pertain to other cars, and therefore do not
establish Defendant’s knowledge of the defect in the 2021 Honda Accord; and (2)
the Complaint “is replete” with allegations about publicly disclosed
information about the “Honda Sensing” defect, demonstrating Defendant did disclose
the defect.
 
As for Defendant’s first argument, as discussed above, Plaintiff
alleges that despite being aware of the Honda Sensing defect due to its
installation in the 2016-2020 Honda
Accord models and the 2017-2020 Honda CR-V vehicles, Honda still installed it
in the 2021 Honda Accord, without notifying customers that it had installed a
known defect in the 2021 year model. 
Therefore, although the examples pertain to other vehicles, they
demonstrate Honda’s knowledge of the defect.
 
With respect to the second
argument, the publications were made about other vehicles in prior years.  Thus, while Defendant knew that its Honda
Sensing was defective, as evidenced by the publications, consumers were not
necessarily aware that the same defective Honda Sensing system was continuing
to be installed in the 2021 Honda Accord models.  Further, Plaintiffs allege that the
disclosures made minimize the scope and extent of the problem, and the proposed
solution did not fix the issue:
 
55. On September 23, 2017, Honda issued TSB
17-064 titled “MID Displays ACC, LKAY, RDM, Brake Warnings and Other Listed
Symptoms.” This TSB states: There is an internal issue with the millimeter wave
radar software, which may lead to one or more of the following symptoms: 
 
o The millimeter wave radar is improperly
calibrated resulting in DTC P2583-76 (temporary stop of integrated driver
support system [misalignment millimeter wave radar]. 
 
o Front radar blindness due to severe weather
conditions (rain, snow, fog, etc.) may trigger a sporadic false Radar
Obstructed message on the MID. 
 
o The vehicle speed fluctuates at highway speeds
when adaptive cruise control is set. 
 
o DTC C0051-54 (steering angle neutral position
learning incomplete), U041-68 (brake actuator malfunction), and U0416-92
(temporary stop of integrated driver support system [rejected control request
by VSA system]) are set after the battery is replaced, disconnected, or jumped.

 
o During radar aiming, the Radar Obstructed
message appears on the MID throughout the aiming procedure. o During radar
aiming, 4 and No Target are not displayed on the MID.
 
o DTC B2A60-98 (multipurpose camera unit
temperature too high) is set
 
56. As a corrective action, this TSB provides for
a software update to the millimeter wave radar unit. Such purported fixes are
common in the auto industry because they are inexpensive, but they are often
ineffective. 
 
57. As evident from Plaintiff’s experiences and
those of other consumers, the software updates and millimeter wave radar
re-aiming fail to correct the Honda Sensing Defect. The millimeter wave radar
re-aiming procedure is complex and, when not done correctly, only contributes
to the problem instead of correcting it. Furthermore, Honda knows that Sensing
technology simply does not work in most ordinary road conditions.
 
(Complaint
¶¶ 55-57.)
 
            Therefore, the Complaint adequately
alleges that Honda knew of the defect, but that Plaintiffs did not and could
not have reasonably discovered the defect prior to purchasing the subject
vehicle.
 
                                                    
iv.         
Particularity
 
“In California, fraud must be
pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.)  “This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“One of the purposes of the
specificity requirement is notice to the defendant, to furnish the defendant
with certain definite charges which can be intelligently met.”  (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement
System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.)  As such, less specificity is required “when
it appears from the nature of the allegations that the defendant must
necessarily possess full information concerning the facts of the
controversy[.]”  (Ibid.)  “Even under the strict rules of common law
pleading, one of the canons was that less particularity is required when the
facts lie more in the knowledge of the opposite party.”  (Ibid.)
 
Defendant contends that the
allegations constitute only legal conclusions devoid of the factual specificity
required to plead a cause of action for fraud. 
As discussed above, Plaintiffs have alleged specific facts that (1)
Defendant knew of the defect; (2) Defendant owed a duty to disclose the defect,
both because it sold Plaintiffs the vehicle through its authorized dealer (Complaint
¶ 84) and because it actively concealed the defect by downplaying the severity
of the defect and proposing a software fix that was ineffective (Complaint ¶
56); (3) Defendant intended to defraud customers like Plaintiffs, prioritizing
“financial gain at the expense of consumer safety” (Complaint ¶ 26).  The Complaint also alleges, “Plaintiff(s)
would not have purchased the Subject Vehicle, or would have paid significantly
less for it, had they known of the Sensing Defect and the safety hazard it
creates.”  (Complaint ¶ 66.)  Further, Plaintiff alleges:
 
123.Plaintiff(s) was harmed by purchasing the
Subject Vehicle that Plaintiff(s) would not have purchased had AMERICAN HONDA
and/or its agents disclosed the true facts about the Honda Sensing Defect at or
prior to the acquisition. Plaintiff(s) also suffered diminution in the value of
Plaintiff(s)’s vehicle, out-of-pocket expenses, damages in the amount of the
difference between the value of the vehicle equipped with a defective
computerized driver-assistance safety system and the value of the vehicle if it
had been equipped as warranted, and reliance damages. Plaintiff(s) also
incurred expenses relating to registration, insurance, and maintenance of the
Subject Vehicle. 
 
124. Plaintiff(s) was harmed by Defendant’s
concealment of the Honda Sensing Defect because Plaintiff(s) was induced to
acquire a vehicle that Plaintiff(s) would not have otherwise purchased.
 
125. Defendant’s concealment of the defect was a
substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s harm.
 
(Complaint
at ¶¶ 123-125.)
 
            Therefore, the Complaint alleges
fraud with sufficient particularity.
 
2.     MOTION
TO STRIKE
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)  
 
In ruling on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth.” 
(Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  To
state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the
elements set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College
Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  Per Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must
allege that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)   As set forth in the Civil Code, 
 
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended
by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which
is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others.  (2)
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.  (3) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
(Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1)-(3), emphasis added.)  
 
Further, a plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to support a
conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression, fraud or malice.  To wit, there is a heightened pleading
requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages.  (See Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)  “When
nondeliberate injury is charged, allegations that the defendant’s conduct was
wrongful, willful, wanton, reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for
exemplary damages; such allegations do not charge malice.  When a defendant must produce evidence in
defense of an exemplary damage claim, fairness demands that he receive adequate
notice of the kind of conduct charged against him.” (G. D. Searle & Co.
v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29 [cleaned up].)  In Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v.
Snepp, the Court of Appeal noted that the plaintiffs’ assertions related to
their claim for punitive damages were “insufficient to meet the specific
pleading requirement.”  (Anschutz
Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643
[plaintiffs alleged “the conduct of Defendants was intentional, and done
willfully, maliciously, with ill will towards Plaintiffs, and with conscious
disregard for Plaintiff's rights. Plaintiff's injuries were exacerbated by the
malicious conduct of Defendants. Defendants' conduct justifies an award of
exemplary and punitive damages”]; see also Grieves
v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [“The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages.  Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim”].)  
 
Moreover, “the imposition of punitive damages upon a corporation is
based upon its own fault.  It is not imposed vicariously by virtue of the
fault of others.”  (City Products Corp. v. Globe Indemnity Co.
(1979) 88 Cal.App.3d 31, 36.)  “Corporations are legal entities which do
not have minds capable of recklessness, wickedness, or intent to injure or
deceive.  An award of punitive damages against a corporation therefore
must rest on the malice of the corporation’s employees.  But the law does
not impute every employee’s malice to the corporation.  Instead, the
punitive damages statute requires proof of malice among corporate
leaders:  the officers, directors, or managing agents.”  (Cruz v.
Home Base (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 160, 167 [cleaned up].)  
            
            Defendants move to strike punitive
damages from the Complaint.  As discussed
above, Plaintiffs have adequately alleged fraud to sustain a request for
punitive damages generally.  With respect
to alleged conduct on the part of Defendant’s corporate leaders, however, the
Complaint is devoid of any allegations with respect to the acts of Honda’s
corporate leadership except for paragraph 7, which simply provides, “7. All
acts of corporate employees as alleged were authorized or ratified by an
officer, director or managing agent of the corporate employer.”  (Complaint ¶ 7.)  This conclusory statement, unsupported by any
other specific facts regarding wrongdoing on the part of corporate leadership,
is insufficient to state a claim for punitive damages against the
corporation.    
 
Therefore, the Court grants Defendant’s motion to strike punitive
damages from the Complaint.
 
3.    
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v. City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal basis for
the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a cause of
action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff does not meet his
or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a demurrer or motion to
strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint deficient, plaintiff
respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major Clients Agency v Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v. Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)
 
Here, the Court grants Plaintiff leave to amend to add more
specificity regarding Defendant’s corporate leadership’s alleged ratification and/or
other wrongful conduct that would support Plaintiff’s claim for punitive
damages.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Defendant’s Demurrer to
the Second Cause of Action.  
 
Further, the Court grants Defendant’s Motion to Strike punitive
damages from the Complaint with leave to amend.   Plaintiff shall file and serve the amended
complaint on or before September 3, 2024. 

 
Further, on the Court’s own motion, the Court continues the Case
Management Conference from September 3, 2024 to December 13, 2024 at 8:30 A.M.
in Department 207.  All parties shall
comply with California Rules of Court, rules 3.722, et seq., regarding Initial
and Further Case Management Conferences. 
In particular, all parties shall adhere to the duty to meet and confer
(Rule 3.724) and to the requirement to prepare and file Case Management
Statements (Rule 3.725).  
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s orders and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith. 

 
 
DATED:  August 13, 2024                                                     ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court