  Case Number:  23SMCV02295    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


August 13, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV02295




MOTION


Claim of Exemption




MOVING PARTY


Non-party Christine Adamian




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Judith Wurmbrand



 
MOTION
 
Non-party Christin Adamian (“Claimant”) has filed a Claim of
Exemption, seeking to exempt funds in her Bank of America account from wage
garnishment to enforce Plaintiff Judith Wurmbrand’s judgment, on the grounds
that the funds are Claimant’s separate property and not the community property
of her former spouse, Defendant Arutyun Adamian (“Defendant”).  Plaintiff opposes the claim of exemption.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 703.110 provides:
 
If the judgment debtor is married:
 
(a) The exemptions provided by this chapter or by
any other statute apply to all property that is subject to enforcement of a
money judgment, including the interest of the spouse of the judgment debtor in
community property. The fact that one or both spouses are judgment debtors
under the judgment or that property sought to be applied to the satisfaction of
the judgment is separate or community does not increase or reduce the number or
amount of the exemptions. Where the property exempt under a particular exemption
is limited to a specified maximum dollar amount, unless the exemption provision
specifically provides otherwise, the two spouses together are entitled to one
exemption limited to the specified maximum dollar amount, whether one or both
of the spouses are judgment debtors under the judgment and whether the property
sought to be applied to the satisfaction of the judgment is separate or
community.
 
(b) If an exemption is required by statute to be
applied first to property not before the court and then to property before the
court, the application of the exemption to property not before the court shall
be made to the community property and separate property of both spouses,
whether or not such property is subject to enforcement of the money judgment.
 
(c) If the same exemption is claimed by the judgment
debtor and the spouse of the judgment debtor for different property, and the
property claimed by one spouse, but not both, is exempt, the exemption shall be
applied as the spouses agree. If the spouses are unable to agree, the exemption
shall be applied as directed by the court in its discretion.        
 
            Here, Claimant contends the funds in
the Bank of America account are exempt because they are her separate property
and they are not the community property of her former spouse, Defendant.  
 
Plaintiff
opposes the claim on the grounds that there is no record of Claimant divorcing Defendant.  In support Plaintiff has provided search
results for family law cases involving Claimant, which produced no
results.  (Exhibit 1.)  
 
Plaintiff
also provided a TLO Comprehensive Report results, demonstrating that Claimant
and Defendant both still live at the same address, where they have lived
together since July 18, 2014, including when the debt was incurred in February
2018, and as such, they do not appear to be legally separated either.  (Exhibit 2.) 
The Court notes that Claimant used an  address on the claim of exemption form at
which Plaintiff served Defendant in this action.
 
Plaintiff
further provides Defendant’s Bankruptcy Petition, filed June 19, 2024, in which
Defendant claims the $45,307.81 in Bank of America funds being held by the
Sheriff’s Department are his separate property, not Claimant’s.
 
Therefore, Plaintiff has demonstrated that Claimant and Defendant were
and remain married at all relevant times, and as such, the Bank of America
funds at issue is Defendant’s community property, and Claimant has not provided
any evidence in reply.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court denies Claimant’s claim of
exemption.  
 
The Clerk of the Court shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and
file a proof of service regarding the same. 

 
 
DATED:  August 13, 2024                                                     ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court