  Case Number:  24STCP00662    Hearing Date:   June 24, 2024    Dept:  82 Essential Management,
Inc. v. Los Angeles Housing Department
Case No. 24STCP00662
[Tentative] Order
Dismissing Case without Prejudice
 
            The court posts
this tentative order on June 12, 2024, in advance of the hearing on June 24,
2024, at 9:30 a.m.  The court provides
notice that if counsel or a representative of Petitioner does not appear at the
hearing, absent good cause, the court will take the hearing off-calendar and
will issue this tentative order dismissing the case without prejudice.  
 
            Petitioner
Essential Management Inc. (“Petitioner”) filed this action against the Los
Angeles Housing Department (“Respondent”).  Petitioner is not represented by counsel and
seeks to proceed as a self-represented party.  An entity cannot proceed as a self-represented
party in a petition for writ of mandate and must have counsel.  Also, the verification is signed by Gabriela
Hernandez and erroneously states that she is the petitioner.  Based upon the foregoing, the court noticed:
(1) A motion for judgment on the pleadings under Code of Civil Procedure
section 438(b)(2); and (2) An order to show cause why this case should not be
dismissed under Huang v. Hanks (2018) 23 Cal.App.5th 179, 181- 182.  (See Court’s Minute Order, dated May 30,
2024.)  The court provided notice: “If
Petitioner does not retain counsel or provide authority establishing that it
may proceed as a self-represented party, the court will dismiss this petition
without prejudice. The Court provides notice: If counsel or a representative of
petitioner does not appear at the hearing, absent good cause, the court will
dismiss this petition without prejudice.” 
(See ibid.)  
 
            Petitioner
has not retained counsel or demonstrated any good cause to believe Petitioner
will do so.  Based upon the foregoing,
the court dismisses this case without prejudice.  The court’s clerk shall serve this order upon
Petitioner.  Further notice is not
required.  
 