 Case Number:  23SMCV05095    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGDefendants Joseph W. Sherman and Catherine Bampoky’s Motion to Be Relieved from Admissions (CCP §2033.300(a)) is DENIED.Clerk to give notice. REASONINGDefendants Joseph W. Sherman and Catherine Bampoky (“Defendants”) move the Court for an order relieving them from admissions made pursuant to the Court’s order dated February 16, 2024 and permitting them to serve admissions responsive to Plaintiff John Oursland (“Plaintiff”)’s Requests for Admission, Set One.Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.300 allows a party to withdraw or amend an admission made in response to a request for admission, but “the [C]ourt may permit withdrawal or amendment of an admission only if it determines that the admission was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect, and that the party who obtained the admission will not be substantially prejudiced in maintaining that party’s action or defense on the merits.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.300, subd. (b).) Defendants state they are bringing this motion “on the grounds of inadvertence, mistake or reasonable neglect” (Mot., p. 1, ll. 24-25), and they provide the applicable law governing this motion. In their joint declaration, they state that their “previous response or lack thereof was the result of inadvertence, mistake, or excusable neglect” as follows:Defendant Joseph Sherman has been proactive and has replied to all hearings and notices. Defendant went to courthouse and printed out Motion to Deem RFA’s admitted on 4/3/2024 from court records. Defendant never received the notice for this motion. The answers Plaintiff submitted are completely different to my Interrogatory Answers filed 1/21/2024. Plaintiff’s answers are also completely different from Deed of Trust already attached as exhibit to my initial response to court on 11/3/2023.(Mot., Sherman and Bampoky Decl. ¶ 3.) It is not clear what Defendants mean when saying Plaintiff’s answers are different from Defendants’ answers or the Deed of Trust. As to whether Defendants lacked notice of the motion, this is belied by the proof of service of the motion showing that Defendants were served with the motion on January 17, 2024, and they later received notice of the Court’s ruling granting that motion. It appears that Defendants simply chose not to respond to the motion. While Defendants state that this relief “will not cause prejudice to the party requesting the admissions” (Mot., Sherman and Bampoky Decl. ¶ 4), Defendants provide only a conclusory statement to this effect, and it is clear that Plaintiff will suffer prejudice given the imminent trial date and Defendants’ failure to timely move for relief. Accordingly, Defendants Joseph W. Sherman and Catherine Bampoky’s Motion to Be Relieved from Admissions (CCP §2033.300(a)) is DENIED.