 Case Number:  21SMCV00045    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December 19, 2024




CASE NUMBER


21SMCV00045




MOTIONS


Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of Second Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Stella Nova, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff H. Jewel Engstrom, individually and as trustee
  of the Engstrom Family Trust



 
MOTIONS
 
This case arises from allegations of property damage stemming from
construction work done on an adjacent property. 
Plaintiff H. Jewel Engstrom, individually and as trustee of the Engstrom
Family Trust (“Plaintiff”) brings the operative Second Amended Complaint
(“SAC”) against Defendants 1400 Linda Flora Associates, LLC (“Linda Flora”);
Bay Post Builders, Inc. (“Bay Post”); Stella Nova, LLC (“Stella Nova” or
“Defendant”); Eri Kroh (“Kroh”); M&M Landscaping and Gardening Services
(“M&M”); Geoworks Engineering Group, Inc. (“Geoworks”); EGM Construction,
Inc. (“EGM”); Youssef Mikhail (“Mikhail”); Renaissance Construction Group, Inc.
(“Renaissance”); Gold Hillside Construction, Inc. (“Gold”); Unique Homes by
Caspian, Inc. (“Unique”); and Amir Babak Miradami (“Miradami”); alleging five
causes of action for (1) trespass; (2) negligence; (3) private nuisance; (4)
public nuisance; and (5) financial elder abuse.
 
Stella Nova demurs to the fifth cause of action on the grounds that
the SAC fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e).  Stella Nova also moves to strike alter ego
allegations and requests for punitive damages. 

 
Plaintiff opposes the motions and Stella Nova replies. 
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Stella Nova requests judicial notice
of the Substitution of Trustee and Total Reconveyance, which was notarized
August 16, 2024 and recorded with the Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office on
August 20, 2024.  
 
Courts can take judicial
notice of the existence and recordation of real property records, including
deeds, if authenticity is not reasonably disputed.  (Fontenot v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
(2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 256, 264-265.) 
“The official act of recordation and the common use of a notary public
in the execution of such documents assure their reliability, and the
maintenance of the documents in the recorder’s office makes their existence and
text capable of ready confirmation, thereby placing such documents beyond
reasonable dispute.”  (Ibid.)  Moreover, courts can take judicial notice not
only of the existence and recordation of recorded documents but also matters
that can be deduced from the documents, including the parties, dates, and legal
consequences of recorded documents relating to real estate transactions.  (Ibid.)  
 
Therefore, the Court takes
judicial notice of the Substitution of Trustee and Total Reconveyance.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if on consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
                                                        
i.         
Fifth Cause
of Action – Financial Elder Abuse
 
The Elder Abuse Act defines
“Abuse of an elder or a dependent adult” as 
 
(1)
Physical abuse, neglect, abandonment, isolation, abduction, or other treatment
with resulting physical harm or pain or mental suffering. 
 
(2) The
deprivation by a care custodian of goods or services that are necessary to
avoid physical harm or mental suffering. 

 
(3)
Financial abuse, as defined in Section 15610.30.
 
(Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.07, subd.
(a).)  “Financial abuse” of an elder or
dependent adult occurs when a person or entity does any of the following:
 
(1)  
Takes,
secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains real or personal property of an
elder or dependent adult for a wrongful use or with intent to defraud, or both.
 
(2)  
Assists
in taking, secreting, appropriating, obtaining, or retaining real or personal
property of an elder or dependent adult for a wrongful use or with intent to
defraud, or both.
 
(3)  
Takes,
secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains, or assists in taking, secreting,
appropriating, obtaining, or retaining, real or personal property of an elder
or dependent adult by undue influence, as defined in Section 15610.70.
 
(Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.30, subd.
(a).)
 
“A wrongful use is defined as
taking, secreting, appropriating, or retaining property in bad faith. Bad faith
occurs where the person or entity knew or should have known that the elder had
the right to have the property transferred or made readily available to the
elder or to his or her representative.” 
(Teselle v. McLoughlin (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 156, 174.)
 
Further, allegations of elder
abuse must be pleaded with particularity. (Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 790.)  “[A]
plaintiff prosecuting a claim for heightened civil remedies under the Elder
Abuse Act is required in any event to plead and to prove by clear and
convincing evidence “recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice.”  (Id. at p. 788.)  “In order to obtain the Act's heightened
remedies, a plaintiff must allege conduct essentially equivalent to conduct
that would support recovery of punitive damages.”  (Id. at p. 789 [noting punitive
damages under Civil Code, section 3294 require “clear and convincing evidence”
of “oppression, fraud, or malice” and the heightened remedies for Elder Abuse
under Welfare & Institutions Code, section 15657 require “clear and
convincing evidence” of “recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice”].)  (Ibid.)
 
Defendant argues that the SAC
fails to state a cause of action for financial abuse of an elder because it
does not state with particularity facts demonstrating Stella Nova’s requisite
knowledge to constitute wrongful use or intent to defraud.  
 
Plaintiff alleges:
 
1. Plaintiff is an elderly homeowner (1455
Roscomare Road, Los Angeles, CA 90077, “Plaintiff’s Property”) and is bringing
this action for injunctive relief and damages against the owner, contractors,
and their agents (collectively, “Defendants”) regarding a massive development
they are constructing on the adjacent uphill real property (30.3 acres), which
street address is 1400 Linda Flora Drive, Los Angeles, California; Assessor
Parcel Number 4377-002- 028 (“Defendant’s Property,” or the “1400 Property”). Defendants’
development project includes graded hilltop building pad, driveway, and double
retaining wall 1500’ in length, for a luxury residence (the “Project”). 
 
2. Plaintiff’s next-door neighbors at 1467
Roscomare Road, Anthony and Teresa Aldave, filed an action against the same
Defendants for damages to their property that the Defendants caused, Anthony
Aldave, et al. vs 1400 Linda Flora Associates, LLC, et al., Los Angeles County
Superior Court Case Number 19SMCV01169. 
 
3. Plaintiff is bringing this action for the
damages her Property suffered, including without limitation diminution in value
and stigma proximately resulting from Defendants’ construction on Plaintiff’s
Property without Plaintiff’s permission, among other tortious acts of
Defendants. 
 
4. Beginning during the weekend of February 3-5,
incidents of soil movement from Defendant’s Property proximately caused severe
damage to Plaintiff’s Property, as more fully alleged below. Plaintiff is
informed and believes the damage to Plaintiff’s Property is in addition to
those damages alleged in the Complaint she filed about January 11, 2021, and on
the basis of that information and belief Plaintiff submits this Amended and
Supplemented Complaint, to add and recover for damages Plaintiff suffered to Plaintiff’s
Property and to herself as a proximate result of Defendants’ acts and
omissions.
 
[…]
 
24. About May 5, 2014, 1400 LLC made a Deed of
Trust (“DOT #1”), signed by KROH, on the 1400 Property for the benefit of
Hankey Capital, LLC, to secure indebtedness in the total principal amount of up
to $9,800,000, recorded in the County of Los Angeles on that date as Document
no. 20140464747. Plaintiff is informed and believes, and on that basis alleges,
the debt secured by this Deed of Trust exceeded the value of assets of 1400
LLC. 
 
25. About December 1, 2020, Hankey Capital, LLC,
made an Assignment of Deed of Trust, Security Agreement and Fixture Filing with
Assignment of Rents (the “Assignment”), assigning “all beneficial interest
under [DOT #1],” Document no. 20140464747, to Knight Insurance Company, Ltd., a
Cayman Islands Company. About December 28, 2020, Hankey Capital, LLC, requested
the Assignment be recorded in the County of Los Angeles as Document no.
20201731207, and when recorded mailed to Hankey Capital, LLC, not to Knight Insurance
Company, whose rights the Assignment documented.
 
26. About June 25, 2021, less than six months
after this lawsuit was filed, 1400 LLC made a Grant Deed, recorded in the
County of Los Angeles as Document no. 20211038783 on July 2, 2021, granting the
1400 Property to STELLA NOVA. Although the Grant Deed recited Documentary
Transfer Tax of $22,660.00, and City Transfer Tax of $92,700.00, and 1400 LLC
acknowledged receipt of “A VALUABLE CONSIDERATION,” the beneficial title taken
by Hankey Capital, LLC, and assigned to Knight Insurance Company, Plaintiff is
informed and believes, and on that basis alleges, was not reconveyed. 
 
27. About June 29, 2021, STELLA NOVA made a Deed
of Trust (“DOT #2”) on the 1400 Property for the benefit of Hankey Capital,
LLC, to secure indebtedness in the total principal amount of up to $15,000,000,
recorded in the County of Los Angeles on that date as Document no. 20211038784.
This Deed of Trust was executed by Geoffrey M. Gold, an attorney at the Beverly
Hills law firm of Ervin, Cohen & Jessup LLP, for STELLA NOVA MANAGER LLC, a
Delaware limited liability company that is not registered in California. 
 
28. Plaintiff is informed and believes, and on
that basis alleges, about July 30, 2024, after the Amended & Supplemental
Complaint was served on STELLA NOVA, and more than three years after STELLA
NOVA’s purchase of the 1400 Property, Hankey Capital, LLC, made a Substitution
of Trustee and Total Reconveyance (the “Substitution”), signed by Priyesh R.
Bhakta, President, substituting Hankey Capital, LLC, as Trustee in place of
North American Title Company on DOT #1, as well as beneficiary, and “reconvey[ing],
without warranty, to the person or persons legally entitled thereto, the estate
and interest now held by it thereunder in and to [the 1400 Property].” About
August 20, 2024, Hankey Capital, LLC, requested the Substitution be recorded in
the County of Los Angeles as Document no. 20240558704, and when recorded mailed
to Hankey Capital, LLC. 
 
29. Knight Insurance Company was not identified
in, nor a party, to the Substitution, despite Hankey Capital, LLC’s, having
assigned to Knight Insurance Company the beneficial interest purportedly
reconveyed in the Substitution “to the person or persons legally entitled
thereto,” whom the Substitution also did not identify. As of July 30, and
August 20, 2024, Knight Insurance Company held the interest Hankey Capital,
LLC, purported to convey in the Substitution. Thus, in addition to being made
three years late, the Substitution was ineffective. 
 
30. Plaintiff is informed and believes, and on
that basis alleges, the 1400 Property is the sole asset of STELLA NOVA.
Plaintiff is further informed and believes, and on that basis alleges, the debt
secured by the June 29, 2021, Deed of Trust exceeds the value of STELLA NOVA’s
assets – particularly in view of the fact that the 1400 Property was already
encumbered by a $9.8 million Deed of Trust in favor of Hankey Capital, LLC,
assigned to Knight Insurance Company, which appears still to hold a beneficial
interest in the 1400 Property. 
 
31. The June 29, 2021, Deed of Trust (DOT #1)
effectively burdened the 1400 Property with a debt of $24,800,000, consisting
of $9,800,000, from the May 5, 2014, Deed of Trust granting beneficial title to
Hankey Capital, LLC, then assigned to Knight Insurance Company, which has not
reconveyed any interest passed by that Deed of Trust, plus $15,000,000 from the
June 29, 2021, Deed of Trust (DOT #1). Plaintiff is informed and believes, and
on that basis alleges, a total encumbrance of $24,800,000 is manifestly in
excess of the value of the 1400 Property, which for at least the last 10 years
has been simply a graded ridge, leveled dirt without more, from which have
cascaded multiple volumes of dirt and mud damaging homes beneath it. 
 
32. Plaintiff is informed and believes, and on
that basis alleges, 1400 LLC and STELLA NOVA are mere shells and
instrumentalities employed by Defendants KROH and others simply to evade
personal liability and as a fraud on creditors. Plaintiff is informed and
believes, and on that basis alleges, assets of 1400 LLC and STELLA NOVA are
manifestly inadequate to meet its legal obligations and responsibilities.
Plaintiff is further informed and believes, and on that basis alleges, KROH and
others knew and know[ ] of that manifest inadequacy and intentionally
structured and conducted the business of 1400 LLC and STELLA NOVA for the
purpose of creating entities that would be inadequately capitalized to meet
their obligations, while enriching themselves and concealing their involvement
behind these sham entities created and maintained for the sole purpose of
limiting KROH’s and others’ liability unjustly.
 
33. Plaintiff is informed and believes, and on
that basis alleges, 1400 LLC, STELLA NOVA, and KROH share a unity of identity
and purpose, commingling funds and acting in concert to evade and defraud
creditors, such that adherence to the corporate fiction or its continued
application to 1400 LLC or STELLA NOVA would work fraud and injustice on
Plaintiff, who seeks this Court’s leave to impose liability for Plaintiff’s
damages on KROH and others using those forms and fictions in connection with
the operations of 1400 LLC or STELLA NOVA to work such fraud and injustice
personally and execute against KROH and those others any judgment awarded to
Plaintiff as against 1400 LLC or STELLA NOVA. 
 
34. Plaintiff is informed and believes, and on
that basis alleges, substantial portions of the work done at the 1400 Property
that caused Plaintiff’s damages were done without observing appropriate
formalities, such as, for example, written contracts between the owner and
Contractors such as BAYPOST, M&M, GEOWORKS, EGM, MIKHAIL, RCG, [ ]GHC,
MIRADAMADI, and UNIQUE. Plaintiff is further informed and believes, and on that
basis alleges, Defendants 1400 LLC and STELLA NOVA – as well as MIKHAIL, RCG, [
]GHC, MIRADAMADI, and UNIQUE – failed to maintain adequate records. Plaintiff
is further informed and believes, and on that basis alleges, Defendants’
purpose in failing to maintain adequate records, was to deprive those who might
suffer foreseeable injury as a proximate result of the acts and omissions of
those Defendants of the ability to determine with certainty when Defendants
were acting for themselves as individuals or when they were acting for
Defendant entities, and of the ability to determine which of the Defendants
performed which acts or omissions alleged to have caused such damages. 
 
35. Since service on STELLA NOVA of Summons and
the Amended and Supplemental Complaint, Plaintiff is informed and believes, and
on that basis alleges, STELLA NOVA has been served with items of written
discovery seeking evidence relating to Plaintiff’s’ alter ego allegations.
Plaintiff is informed and believes, and on that basis alleges, STELLA NOVA
objected to and refused to answer or produce in response to that discovery,
thus depriving Plaintiff of such evidence 
 
36. STELLA NOVA and 1400 LLC have been
represented by the same counsel in this action. In addition to being
undercapitalized, Plaintiff is informed and believes, and on that basis
alleges, STELLA NOVA has represented that it does not have any insurance to
cover the matters at issue. 
 
37. Plaintiff is further informed and believes,
and on that basis alleges, that STELLA NOVA has failed to observe formalities
appropriate to its form and status as a limited liability company, including
being formed without and having no Articles of Organization or Operating
Agreement. 
 
38. Plaintiff is informed and believes and on
that basis alleges, Defendants, MIKHAIL, RCG, [ ]GHC, MIRADAMADI, and
UNIQUE, failed to observe appropriate formalities (as evidenced in part by
MIKHAIL’s history of associations with multiple entities expired, current, and
suspended), failed to maintain separate records, failed to properly demarcate when
individuals acted for themselves or on behalf of Defendant entities, failed to
properly memorialize their agreements, obligations, and activities concerning
their work at the 1400 Property or their relationships with 1400 LLC or STELLA
NOVA, and failed to adequately capitalize RCG, GHC, and UNIQUE proportionate to
its legal duties and obligations.
 
[…]
 
42. Defendants are developing and constructing a
new large, graded hilltop building pad, driveway, and double retaining wall
1500’ in length, for a large luxury residence, swimming pool and related
features (the “Project”). 
 
43. Defendants, in constructing the Project, have
repeatedly trespassed onto Plaintiff’s Property; have constructed a roadway,
retaining wall, and related improvements on Plaintiff’s Property; and, in
excavating the 1400 Property, have damaged Plaintiff’s Property. Defendants
also trespassed on Plaintiffs’ property to construct a permanent, paved road
that runs generally between the south and north ends of the 1400 Property,
providing access to and from all portions of the 1400 Property, which road includes
substantial portions of Plaintiff’s property. This road, and the access it
provides, is integral to the development and value of the 1400 Property,
benefiting and unjustly enriching Defendants, 1400 LLC and Stella Nova, who use
and continue to use Plaintiff’s property without right or justification. 
 
44. Plaintiff was recently informed that
Defendants sought and obtained a grading permit from the Los Angeles Department
of Building & Safety (LADBS) to remediate erosional scars that Defendants
had caused based on Defendant’s false representation that the scars were
located on the 1400 Property. Defendants repaired the scars per that permit,
even though one of the scars was located on Plaintiff’s Property. 
 
45. Plaintiff is informed and believes that
Defendants entered Plaintiff’s Property, removed or compacted soil, landscaped
the area, and remediated the erosional scar, all without Plaintiff’s consent.
Defendants’ excavation for the Project was not proper or usual excavation for
the purpose of construction. Plaintiff is informed and believes that Defendants
entered Plaintiff’s Property and performed or caused to be performed excavation
and other conduct on Plaintiff’s Property, including, without limitation: the
entry of workers and equipment onto Plaintiff’s Property; the removal and / or
compaction of soil thereon; the removal of native plants therefrom; and the
planting of landscaping thereon; all without any prior notice to Plaintiff and
without Plaintiff’s consent. 
 
46. As a direct and proximate result of
Defendants’ excavation work on the 1400 Property and Plaintiff’s Property for
the Project, lateral and subjacent support along the uphill western and
northern boundaries of Plaintiff’s Property was removed, causing soil movement
and continuing, progressive, and substantial damage to the Plaintiff’s
Property. 
 
47. Soil movement that, Plaintiff is informed and
believes, and on that basis alleges, resulted directly and proximately from
Defendants’ excavation work on the 1400 Property and Plaintiff’s Property, as
well as from Defendants’ grading, brush clearance, and other acts and omissions
creating or worsening drainage and other issues relating to moisture traveling
over and through the 1400 Property and Plaintiff’s Property, recently led to a
slide of catastrophic proportions, which inundated portions of Plaintiff’s
Property with mud, as deep as 6-8 inches in places. Plaintiff is informed and
believes, and on that basis alleges, as a direct and proximate result of these
recent events, Plaintiff’s Property has suffered physical damage, including
without limitation damage both integral and aesthetic to structural,
electrical, plumbing, irrigation, mechanical, and HVAC systems. In addition to
this substantial property damage, Plaintiff has also suffered stigma and
diminution of value damages, all proximately resulting from Defendants’ alleged
acts and omissions. 
 
48. Plaintiff is further informed and believes,
and on that basis alleges, on or about May 21, 2019, the City of Los Angeles
issued to Defendants an Order to Comply, No. B0120718-574, following which,
about June 6, 2019, Inspector Brian Olson of the City’s Department of Building
and Safety issued inspection results providing in pertinent part as follows:
“Bottom/Toe – Partial Approval;” “Initial Grading – Approved;” and, “Special
Order Compliance – Corrections Issued.” Plaintiff is informed and believes, and
on that basis alleges, Defendants have known about the requirements from
Building and Safety that they make corrections to meet the City’s requirements
stated in the Order to Comply and the inspection results of Mr. Olson since
June 2019, but Defendants have willfully failed to comply as required.
Plaintiff is informed and believes, and on that basis alleges, these alleged
failures have proximately caused substantial damage to Plaintiff, including as
alleged in this pleading. 
 
49. Plaintiff is informed and believes, and on
that basis alleges, the acts and omissions of Defendants alleged in this
pleading evidence their conscious disregard for the safety of Plaintiff, who is
an elder as defined by statute. Plaintiff is informed and believes, and on that
basis alleges, Defendants knew of activities they caused to be performed that
caused a loss of subjacent support and consequent slides, which the City
ordered Defendants to redress. Plaintiff is further informed and believes, and
on that basis alleges, Defendants were aware at least as early as the date of
issuance of the City’s Order(s) to Comply of the probable dangerous
consequences of their conduct, and willfully and deliberately failed to avoid
those consequences. 
 
50. Plaintiff is further informed and believes,
and on that basis alleges, STELLA NOVA in particular knew from the allegations
of the complaints filed in Los Angeles Superior Court in this Action and in
Case No. 19SMCV01169, which were matters of public record, that there had been
slides and damage to Plaintiff’s Property due to acts and omissions for which
the City cited Defendant, 1400 LINDA FLORA. STELLA NOVA did not act to comply
with the City's outstanding orders or to complete the ordered corrections and
provide proof for the City to sign off. Plaintiff is informed and believes, and
on that basis alleges, STELLA NOVA’s conduct exhibits a conscious disregard for
the safety of Plaintiff, who is an elder as defined by statute.
 
[…]
 
114. Plaintiff is older than 65 years of age, as
Defendants knew or should have known. 
 
115. Defendants have wrongfully taken Plaintiff’s
Property as alleged above. 
 
116. Welfare and Institutions Code §15610.30(b)
states that there is a conclusive presumption of financial elder abuse if a
person or entity took, secreted, appropriated, obtained, or retained property
for a wrongful use, if among other things, the person or entity that took,
secreted, appropriated, obtained, or retained the property knew or should have
known that the conduct would be harmful to the elder. 
 
117. Here, Defendants knew or should have known
that their conduct in taking and retaining Plaintiff's Property, would be
harmful to Plaintiff and to Plaintiff's interest in the Property. 
 
118. Each Defendant's conduct, individually, and
all of the Defendants' conduct, collectively, was a substantial factor in
causing Plaintiff's harm.
 
119. Plaintiff is entitled to her attorney's fees
for Defendants violation of the Elder Abuse Act, per Welfare and Institutions
Code §15657.5. 
 
120. Defendants’ violations of the Elder Abuse
Act were willful, oppressive, and fraudulent. Therefore, Plaintiff seeks
punitive and exemplary damages. 
 
121. As a direct and proximate result of
Defendants' violations of the Elder Abuse Act, Plaintiff was injured in an
amount far in excess of $25,000, which shall be proven at trial. 
 
122. Plaintiff is also entitled to punitive
damages against Defendants for their fraudulent, malicious and/or oppressive
conduct, which includes intentional trespass onto Plaintiff’s Property,
constructing improvements on Plaintiff’s Property and because Defendants had
full knowledge of the hazard posed by the condition of the graded and excavated
slope on the 1400 Property, and the adjacent graded and excavated slope on
Plaintiff’s Property, including the fact that these slopes were unstable,
dangerous and prone to landslides and mudslides, and risked causing substantial
injury to persons and property if no or insufficient remedial measures were
taken. Despite such knowledge, Defendants failed and refused to take reasonable
or effective remedial measures.
 
(SAC
¶¶ 1-4; 24-38; 42-50; 114-122.)
 
            Thus,
the SAC alleges with requisite specificity that Defendants, including Stella
Nova, (1) conducted fraudulent transfers among shell entities for the sole
purpose of escaping liability; (2) overleveraged their property by a
substantial margin; (3) disregarded formalities between entities when
contracting for the construction work; (4) encroached their development onto
Plaintiff’s property, removing not only soil and plants from Plaintiff’s
property, but also effectively usurping parts of Plaintiff’s real property
itself, by way of the roadway, retaining wall, and related improvements; and
(5) with recklessness and conscious disregard for Plaintiff’s safety, caused erosion
scars and mudslides onto Plaintiff’s property. 

 
This is sufficient to
withstand demurrer.  Whether Stella Nova in
fact did these things are factual questions to be resolved at later stages
of the litigation.
 
2.     MOTION
TO STRIKE
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)  
 
                                                        
i.         
Alter Ego
Allegations
 
To succeed on an alter ego claim, Plaintiff must ultimately be able to
prove (1) such a unity of interest and ownership between the corporation and
its owner that no separation actually exists, and (2) an inequitable result if
the acts in question are treated as those of the corporation alone.  (Leek v. Cooper (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th
399, 417.)  Several factors are
considered in determining whether the alter ego doctrine applies, including:
 
(1)  
commingling of funds and other assets, failure to
segregate funds of the separate entities, and the unauthorized diversion of
corporate funds or assets to other than corporate uses; 
 
(2)  
the treatment by an individual of the assets of the
corporation as his own; 
 
(3)  
the failure to obtain authority to issue stock or to
subscribe to or issue the same; 
 
(4)  
the holding out by an individual that he is personally
liable for the debts of the corporation; 
 
(5)  
the failure to maintain minutes or adequate corporate
records; 
 
(6)  
sole ownership of all of the stock in a corporation by
one individual or the members of a family; 
 
(7)  
the failure to adequately capitalize a corporation; 
 
(8)  
the total absence of corporate assets, and
undercapitalization; 
 
(9)  
the use of a corporation as a mere shell,
instrumentality or conduit for a single venture or the business of an
individual or another corporation; 
 
(10)        
the concealment and misrepresentation of the identity
of the responsible ownership, management and financial interest, or concealment
of personal business activities; 
 
(11)        
the disregard of legal formalities and the failure to
maintain arm's length relationships among related entities; 
 
(12)        
the use of the corporate entity to procure labor,
services or merchandise for another person or entity; 
 
(13)        
the diversion of assets from a corporation by or to a
stockholder or other person or entity, to the detriment of creditors, or the
manipulation of assets and liabilities between entities so as to concentrate
the assets in one and the liabilities in another; 
 
(14)        
the contracting with another with intent to avoid
performance by use of a corporate entity as a shield against personal
liability, or the use of a corporation as a subterfuge of illegal transactions;
and 
 
(15)        
the formation and use of a corporation to transfer to
it the existing liability of another person or entity.
 
(Id.
at pp. 417–418.)
 
            Stella Nova argues the SAC fails to
adequately plead alter ego because (1) Plaintiff does not allege common
ownership interest because she alleges 1400 Linda and Stella Nova have
different managers (Kroh and Stella Nova Manager, LLC); (2) Plaintiff’s
undercapitalization allegations are based on the faulty premise that the $9.8
million encumbrance remained on the property, when in fact it was repaid from
the purchase proceeds, as evidenced by a now-recorded Substitution of Trustee
and Total Reconveyance; and (3) Plaintiff pleads inadequate facts to support
her “information and belief” that Stella Nova and 1400 Linda were created to
defraud and evade creditors.
 
            The SAC alleges as follows:
 
30. Plaintiff is informed and believes, and on
that basis alleges, the 1400 Property is the sole asset of STELLA NOVA.
Plaintiff is further informed and believes, and on that basis alleges, the debt
secured by the June 29, 2021, Deed of Trust exceeds the value of STELLA NOVA’s
assets – particularly in view of the fact that the 1400 Property was already
encumbered by a $9.8 million Deed of Trust in favor of Hankey Capital, LLC,
assigned to Knight Insurance Company, which appears still to hold a beneficial
interest in the 1400 Property. 
 
31. The June 29, 2021, Deed of Trust (DOT #1)
effectively burdened the 1400 Property with a debt of $24,800,000, consisting
of $9,800,000, from the May 5, 2014, Deed of Trust granting beneficial title to
Hankey Capital, LLC, then assigned to Knight Insurance Company, which has not
reconveyed any interest passed by that Deed of Trust, plus $15,000,000 from the
June 29, 2021, Deed of Trust (DOT #1). Plaintiff is informed and believes, and
on that basis alleges, a total encumbrance of $24,800,000 is manifestly in
excess of the value of the 1400 Property, which for at least the last 10 years
has been simply a graded ridge, leveled dirt without more, from which have
cascaded multiple volumes of dirt and mud damaging homes beneath it. 
 
32. Plaintiff is informed and believes, and on
that basis alleges, 1400 LLC and STELLA NOVA are mere shells and
instrumentalities employed by Defendants KROH and others simply to evade
personal liability and as a fraud on creditors. Plaintiff is informed and
believes, and on that basis alleges, assets of 1400 LLC and STELLA NOVA are
manifestly inadequate to meet its legal obligations and responsibilities.
Plaintiff is further informed and believes, and on that basis alleges, KROH and
others knew and know[ ] of that manifest inadequacy and intentionally
structured and conducted the business of 1400 LLC and STELLA NOVA for the
purpose of creating entities that would be inadequately capitalized to meet
their obligations, while enriching themselves and concealing their involvement
behind these sham entities created and maintained for the sole purpose of
limiting KROH’s and others’ liability unjustly
 
33. Plaintiff is informed and believes, and on
that basis alleges, 1400 LLC, STELLA NOVA, and KROH share a unity of identity
and purpose, commingling funds and acting in concert to evade and defraud
creditors, such that adherence to the corporate fiction or its continued
application to 1400 LLC or STELLA NOVA would work fraud and injustice on
Plaintiff, who seeks this Court’s leave to impose liability for Plaintiff’s
damages on KROH and others using those forms and fictions in connection with
the operations of 1400 LLC or STELLA NOVA to work such fraud and injustice
personally and execute against KROH and those others any judgment awarded to
Plaintiff as against 1400 LLC or STELLA NOVA. 
 
34. Plaintiff is informed and believes, and on
that basis alleges, substantial portions of the work done at the 1400 Property
that caused Plaintiff’s damages were done without observing appropriate
formalities, such as, for example, written contracts between the owner and
Contractors such as BAYPOST, M&M, GEOWORKS, EGM, MIKHAIL, RCG, [ ]GHC,
MIRADAMADI, and UNIQUE. Plaintiff is further informed and believes, and on that
basis alleges, Defendants 1400 LLC and STELLA NOVA – as well as MIKHAIL, RCG, [
]GHC, MIRADAMADI, and UNIQUE – failed to maintain adequate records. Plaintiff
is further informed and believes, and on that basis alleges, Defendants’
purpose in failing to maintain adequate records, was to deprive those who might
suffer foreseeable injury as a proximate result of the acts and omissions of
those Defendants of the ability to determine with certainty when Defendants
were acting for themselves as individuals or when they were acting for
Defendant entities, and of the ability to determine which of the Defendants
performed which acts or omissions alleged to have caused such damages.
 
35. Since service on STELLA NOVA of Summons and
the Amended and Supplemental Complaint, Plaintiff is informed and believes, and
on that basis alleges, STELLA NOVA has been served with items of written
discovery seeking evidence relating to Plaintiff’s’ alter ego allegations.
Plaintiff is informed and believes, and on that basis alleges, STELLA NOVA
objected to and refused to answer or produce in response to that discovery,
thus depriving Plaintiff of such evidence 
 
36. STELLA NOVA and 1400 LLC have been
represented by the same counsel in this action. In addition to being
undercapitalized, Plaintiff is informed and believes, and on that basis
alleges, STELLA NOVA has represented that it does not have any insurance to
cover the matters at issue. 
 
37. Plaintiff is further informed and believes,
and on that basis alleges, that STELLA NOVA has failed to observe formalities
appropriate to its form and status as a limited liability company, including
being formed without and having no Articles of Organization or Operating
Agreement. 
 
(SAC,
¶¶ 30-37.)
 
Plaintiff alleges a “unity of identity and purpose” which, if
disregarded, would “work fraud and injustice on Plaintiff[.]”  (SAC ¶ 33.) 
There is no heightened pleading requirement to allege alter ego
liability, thus Plaintiff is not required to support her information and belief
with more specific facts.  But in any
event, Plaintiff has done so here, by alleging the scheme of
undercapitalization and disregarded formalities.  Thus, Plaintiff has pleaded the requisite
ultimate facts[1] to
allege the entities are alter egos of each other.
 
            As for Stella Nova’s arguments that
the property was not in fact over encumbered by the $9.8 million figure,
even if true, the property may still be overleveraged by virtue of the other
$15,000,000 encumbrance alleged.  Whether
the property is in fact overleveraged requires a property valuation and thus
goes beyond the four corners of the amended complaint and judicially noticeable
documents.  These are factual questions to
be determined at later stages of the litigation.
 
Therefore,
the Court declines to strike Plaintiff’s alter ego allegations.
 
                                                      
ii.         
Punitive
Damages
 
In ruling on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth.” 
(Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  To
state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the
elements set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College
Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  Per Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must
allege that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)   As set forth in the Civil Code, 
 
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended
by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which
is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others.  (2)
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.  (3) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
(Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1)-(3), emphasis added.)  
 
Further, a plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to support a
conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression, fraud or malice.  To wit, there is a heightened pleading
requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages.  (See Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)  “When
nondeliberate injury is charged, allegations that the defendant’s conduct was
wrongful, willful, wanton, reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for
exemplary damages; such allegations do not charge malice.  When a defendant must produce evidence in
defense of an exemplary damage claim, fairness demands that he receive adequate
notice of the kind of conduct charged against him.” (G. D. Searle & Co.
v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29 [cleaned up].)  In Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v.
Snepp, the Court of Appeal noted that the plaintiffs’ assertions related to
their claim for punitive damages were “insufficient to meet the specific
pleading requirement.”  (Anschutz
Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643
[plaintiffs alleged “the conduct of Defendants was intentional, and done
willfully, maliciously, with ill will towards Plaintiffs, and with conscious
disregard for Plaintiff's rights. Plaintiff's injuries were exacerbated by the
malicious conduct of Defendants. Defendants' conduct justifies an award of
exemplary and punitive damages”]; see also Grieves
v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [“The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages.  Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim”].)  
 
Moreover, “the imposition of punitive damages upon a corporation is
based upon its own fault.  It is not imposed vicariously by virtue of the
fault of others.”  (City Products Corp. v. Globe Indemnity Co.
(1979) 88 Cal.App.3d 31, 36.)  “Corporations are legal entities which do
not have minds capable of recklessness, wickedness, or intent to injure or
deceive.  An award of punitive damages against a corporation therefore
must rest on the malice of the corporation’s employees.  But the law does
not impute every employee’s malice to the corporation.  Instead, the
punitive damages statute requires proof of malice among corporate
leaders:  the officers, directors, or managing agents.”  (Cruz v.
Home Base (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 160, 167 [cleaned up].)  
            
            Here, as discussed above, Plaintiff
has alleged with requisite specificity that the entities were created as shells
for the purpose of evading liability for overleveraging the property and
careless construction work.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Stella Nova’s Demurrer to
the Fifth Cause of Action and denies Stella Nova’s Motion to Strike in its
entirety.  
 
Stella Nova shall file and serve an Answer to the SAC on or before January
17, 2025.
 
Stella Nova shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof forthwith.  
 
 
DATED:  December 19, 2024                                                ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


