  Case Number:  19SMCV01966    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December 19, 2024




CASE NUMBER


19SMCV01966




MOTION


Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants and Cross-Defendants David Trumball dba Sure
  Light Electric and Sure Light Electric, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY


(none)



 
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises from alleged construction defects to the home of
Plaintiffs Michael Levine and Zorbey Ozdilek (“Plaintiffs”).  Plaintiffs brought suit against the
architects, general contractor, and subcontractors who worked on the project.
 
Moving Defendants David Trumball dba Sure Light Electric and Sure
Light Electric, Inc. (“Defendants”), were hired as subcontractors on the
project by general contractor Denver Thomas Dale IV, dba Residential
Construction Co. (“Dale”).  In addition
to being named as Defendants in Plaintiffs’ operative Fourth Amended Complaint
(“4AC”), Defendants are also named as cross-defendants in Dale’s
cross-complaint.  
 
On October 17, 2023, the Court approved the good faith settlement
between Plaintiffs and Defendant subcontractor E & J Lopez Plumbing, Inc.
in the amount of $120,000 and between Defendant/Cross-Complainant Denver Thomas
Dale IV dba Residential Construction Company and Cross-Defendant E & J
Lopez Plumbing in the amount of $30,000.
 
On January 24, 2024, the Court approved the good faith settlement
between Plaintiff and Defendant Rapid Duct Testing, the HVAC subcontractor who
worked on the project, in the amount of $50,000.
 
Defendants now move for determination of a good faith settlement among
themselves on the one hand, and Plaintiffs and Dale on the other hand (together,
“Settling Parties”) in the amount of $110,000, payable to Plaintiffs.  In exchange for Defendants’ payment to
Plaintiffs, both Plaintiffs and Dale will dismiss the respective 4AC and
operative Cross-Complaint against Defendants. 
The Settling Parties agree to waive their respective attorneys’ fees and
costs.  Defendants’ motion is unopposed.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A.   
THE LAW GOVERNING GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENTS
 
Under
section 877.6 of the Code of Civil Procedure,[1]  “[a] determination by the court that [a]
settlement was made in good faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasor . . .
from any further claims against the settling tortfeasor . . . for equitable
comparative contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based on
comparative negligence or comparative fault.” 
(§ 877.6, subd. (c).) 
Additionally, a determination that a settlement was made in good faith
will reduce the claims against the non-settling defendants by the amount
specified in the settlement agreement. 
(§ 877.6, subd. (a).)  “The party
asserting the lack of good faith has the burden of proof on that issue.”  (§ 877.6, subd. (d).)  
 
Section
877.6 requires “that the courts review [settlement] agreements made under its
aegis to insure that the settlements appropriately balance the . . . statute’s
dual objectives” (i.e., providing an “equitable sharing of costs among the
parties at fault” and encouraging parties to resolve their disputes by way of
settlement).  (Tech-Bilt, Inc. v.
Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 494 (hereafter Tech-Bilt).)  In Tech-Bilt, the California Supreme
Court set forth the factors to consider when determining whether a settlement
was made in good faith.  The Tech-Bilt factors are: (1) a rough
approximation of plaintiff’s total recovery and the settlor’s proportionate
liability; (2) the amount paid in settlement; (3) the allocation of settlement
proceeds among plaintiffs; (4) a recognition that a settlor should pay less in
settlement than he would if he were found liable after a trial; (5) the
financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling defendants; and
(6) the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the
interests of the non-settling defendants.  (Id. at pp.
498-501.)  “Practical considerations
obviously require that the [trial court’s] evaluation [of the settlement] be
made on the basis of information available at the time of settlement.”  (Id. at p. 499.)  
 
“The
party asserting the lack of good faith . . . [is] permitted to demonstrate, if
he can, that the settlement is so far ‘out of the ballpark’ in relation to [the
above] factors as to be inconsistent with the equitable objectives of [Section
877.6].  Such a demonstration would
establish that the proposed settlement was not a ‘settlement made in good
faith’ within the terms of section 877.6.” 
(Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at pp. 499–500.)  
 
B.   
APPLICATION OF THE TECH-BILT FACTORS
TO THE FACTS OF THE CASE
 
1.    
FIRST FOUR FACTORS: (1) A ROUGH
APPROXIMATION OF PLAINTIFF’S TOTAL RECOVERY; (2) THE SETTLOR’S PROPORTIONATE
LIABILITY AND THE AMOUNT PAID IN SETTLEMENT; (3) ALLCATION AMONG PLAINTIFFS;
and (4) RECOGNITION THAT SETTLOR PAYS LESS IN SETTLEMENT
 
The
first Tech-Bilt factor consists of two parts – a rough approximation of
Plaintiff’s total recovery and the settlor’s proportionate liability.  When approximating a plaintiff’s total
recovery or the settling defendant’s proportionate liability, “judges should .
. . not yearn for the unreal goal of mathematical certainty.  Because the application of section 877.6
requires an educated guess as to what may occur should the case go to trial,
all that can be expected is an estimate, not a definitive conclusion.”  (North County Contractor’s Assn. v.
Touchstone Ins. Services (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 1085, 1090 (hereafter North
County).)  
 
Additionally,
“a court not only looks at the alleged tortfeasor’s liability to the plaintiff,
but it must also consider the culpability of the tortfeasor vis-à-vis other
parties alleged to be responsible for the same injury.  Potential liability for indemnity to a
nonsettling defendant is an important consideration for the trial court in
determining whether to approve a settlement by an alleged tortfeasor.  [Citation.]” 
(TSI Seismic Tenant Space, Inc. v. Superior Court (2007) 149
Cal.App.4th 159, 166.)
 
As for the second factor,  “ ‘[A]
defendant’s settlement figure must not be grossly disproportionate to what a
reasonable person, at the time of the settlement, would estimate the
defendant’s liability to be.’ 
[Citation.]”  (Tech-Bilt, supra,
38 Cal.3d at p. 499.)  However, even
though “an offer of settlement must bear some relationship to one’s
proportionate liability, bad faith is not ‘established by a showing that a
settling defendant paid less than his theoretical proportionate or fair
share.’  [Citation.]”  (North County, supra, 27
Cal.App.4th at p.1090.)  “Such a
rule would unduly discourage settlements” and “convert the pretrial settlement
approval procedure into a full-scale mini-trial.”  (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at p.
499.)  Rather, in order to meet the
proportionality requirement, “all that is necessary is that there be a ‘rough
approximation’ between a settling tortfeasor’s offer of settlement and his
proportionate liability. 
[Citation.]”  (North County,
supra, 27 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1090–1091.)  In determining whether the settling
defendant’s settlement figure is “within the ballpark” of his fair share of
liability, the Court may rely on “the judge’s personal experience” and the
experience of “experts in the field.”  (Tech-Bilt,
supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 500.)
 
The 4AC alleges Plaintiffs purchased the subject property for over two
million dollars $2,000,000.00 and that the project was estimated to cost two
million five hundred eighty thousand dollars ($2,580,000.00).  (4AC ¶¶ 33-34.)  Plaintiffs further allege that they paid in
excess of four million dollars ($4,000,000) on the project, and then had to
spend three million more dollars ($3,000,000) to remediate construction
mistakes and defects.  (4AC ¶ 44.)  In total, the 4AC seeks nine million dollars
($9,000,000) in actual damages. (4AC Prayer at ¶¶ a-b.)
 
Defendants
were hired by the general contractor Dale to perform electrical work on the
project.  (Motion at p. 3.)  
 
The
4AC alleges over 50 separate violations, including that Defendants installed
breakers with amperages that were below those specified in the plans, used
wiring that was also under capacity, installed mis-matched circuit breakers of varying
different brands, eleven hidden junction boxes that were dangerously covered in
plaster, junction boxes containing live wires that were stuffed with paper and
hidden behind the drywall, plus additional locations where wires terminated
inside the walls with no junction boxes at all. 
(4AC ¶¶ 139-159.)
 
Notwithstanding,
the electrical work is a part of the overall project, which also included tile
and marble, roofing, woodworking, doors/gates, weatherproofing, HVAC,
drywall/plaster, plumbing, and hardwood flooring.  Thus, the electrical work is one of ten areas
of work upon which Plaintiffs allegedly incurred $3,000,000 to remediate.  
 
Thus,
the $110,000 settlement amount, which is in line with the amounts the plumbing subcontractor
has already settled for, and more than twice what one of the HVAC contractors
already settled for, appears to represent a reasonable approximation of
Defendant’s, proportionate liability, taking into account that settlors should
pay less in settlement than they would if the case went to trial.  
 
Because
Plaintiffs are both parties to the settlement agreement, the allocation between
them is irrelevant.  
 
2.    
THE EXISTENCE OF COLLUSION, FRAUD, OR
TORTIOUS CONDUCT AIMED TO INJURE THE INTERESTS OF THE NON-SETTLING DEFENDANTS.
 
“Any
negotiated settlement involves cooperation, but not necessarily collusion.  It becomes collusive when it is aimed to
injure the interests of an absent tortfeasor. 
Although many kinds of collusive injury are possible, the most obvious
and frequent is that created by an unreasonably cheap settlement.”  (River Garden Farms, Inc. v. Superior
Court (1972) 26 Cal.App.3d 986, 996.) 
“Prevention of collusion is but a means to the end of preventing
unreasonably low settlements which prejudice a nonparticipating
tortfeasor.  The price of a settlement is
the prime badge of its good or bad faith. 
Construed in the light of [section 877.6’s] objectives, the good faith
release clause extends the obligation of good faith beyond the parties to the
negotiations, embracing an absent tortfeasor.” 
(Ibid.)  
 
Here,
there is no argument or evidence that the settlement was made in bad faith to
harm the remaining defendants.  Rather,
the Settling Parties reached settlement after mediation, a Mandatory Settlement
Conference, and informal settlement negotiations at arm’s length.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court grants Defendants’ unopposed Motion
for a Determination of Good Faith Settlement. 
The Court will enter the proposed Order received on November 15, 2024.  
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Order and file the notice with
a proof of service forthwith.  
 
 
 
DATED:  December 19, 2024                                                ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


