 Case Number:  23SMCV05871    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December 19, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV05871




MOTION


Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Andrew P. Taylor




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Ariadni Kidonis Silva Perez



 
BACKGROUND
 
            On December 18, 2023, Plaintiff
Ariadni Kidonis Silva Perez (“Plaintiff”) filed suit against Defendant Andrew
P. Taylor (“Defendant”) alleging two causes of action for (1) motor vehicle and
(2) general negligence, arising from allegations that Defendant’s motor vehicle
struck Plaintiff on her motorcycle in a parking lot.  
 
            Defendant moves for judgment on the
pleadings on the grounds that Plaintiff failed to timely present her claim to
the City of Los Angeles (“City”), Defendant’s employer, before bringing
suit.  
 
            Plaintiff opposes the motion and
Defendant replies.
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Defendant requests judicial notice
of the following:
 
·       Exhibit A: Vehicle
Code Section 20012
 
·       Exhibit B:
Declaration of City Clerk Michael Valdivia re Plaintiff’s failure to file a
claim for damages for an incident date of September 27, 2023.
 
            As for Exhibit A, judicial notice
may be taken of the decisional, constitutional, and statutory law of any state
of the United States and of official acts of the legislative, executive, and
judicial departments of the United States and of any state of the United States.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (a) and (c).)  Therefore, the Court takes judicial notice of
Exhibit A.
 
            Regarding Exhibit B, Defendant
requests the Court take judicial notice of Declaration of City Clerk Michael
Valdivia as an official act, pursuant to subdivision (c) and as “facts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable
accuracy” pursuant to subdivision (h).  
 
            The Court finds that the Clerk’s
declaration is neither an “official act” nor a fact or proposition capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.  Therefore, the
Court declines to take judicial notice of Exhibit B.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     MOTION
FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS
 
A motion for judgment on the pleadings has the same function as a
general demurrer, but may be made after the time to demur has expired. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (f).)  “Like a
demurrer, the grounds for the motion [for judgment on the pleadings] must
appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the
court is required to take judicial notice.” (Civic Partners Stockton, LLC v. Youssefi (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th
1005, 1013 (hereafter Civic Partners).) 
In ruling on a motion for judgment on the pleadings, “[a]ll allegations
in the complaint and matters upon which judicial notice may be taken are
assumed to be true.” (Rippon v. Bowen (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1313.)  
 
2.     GOVERNMENT CLAIMS ACT - PRESENTATION
REQUIREMENTS
Per the Government Claims Act (“GCA”), also known as the Tort Claims
Act, (Gov. Code, 810 et seq.), a party with a claim for money or damages
against a public entity must present a written claim directly with that public entity. 
(Gov. Code, § 905.)  And under Government
Code section 945.4, “no suit for money or damages may be brought against a
public entity on a cause of action for which a claim is required to be
presented in accordance with Section 910 until a written claim therefore has
been presented to the public entity and has been acted upon by the board, or
has been deemed to have been rejected by the board.”  (Stockett v. Association of Cal. Water
Agencies Joint Powers Ins. Authority (2004) 34 Cal.4th 441, 445  [cleaned up]; see also Munoz v. State of
Cal. (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1767.)   Additionally, an action against a public
employee is barred if an action against the employing public entity would be
barred by the failure to satisfy the GCA. (Gov. Code, § 950.2.) 
 
The claim presentation requirement provides a public entity with an
opportunity to evaluate the claim and decide whether to pay on the claim. 
(Roberts v. County of Los Angeles (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 474.)  To comply with the GCA presentation
requirements, a claimant is compelled to observe Government Code section 910
which provides:
 
A claim
shall be presented by the claimant or by a person acting on his or her behalf
and shall show all of the following:
 
(a) The
name and post office address of the claimant.
(b) The
post office address to which the person presenting the claim desires notices to
be sent.
(c) The
date, place and other circumstances of the occurrence or transaction which gave
rise to the claim asserted.
(d) A
general description of the indebtedness, obligation, injury, damage or loss
incurred so far as it may be known at the time of presentation of the claim.
(e) The
name or names of the public employee or employees causing the injury, damage,
or loss, if known.
(f) The
amount claimed if it totals less than ten thousand dollars ($10,000) as of the
date of presentation of the claim, including the estimated amount of any
prospective injury, damage, or loss, insofar as it may be known at the time of
the presentation of the claim, together with the basis of computation of the
amount claimed. If the amount claimed exceeds ten thousand dollars ($10,000),
no dollar amount shall be included in the claim. However, it shall indicate
whether the claim would be a limited civil case.
 
(Gov. Code, § 910.)  
 
            In
sum, “compliance with the claims provisions is mandatory. Fulfilling the
requirements of the tort claims presentation procedure is a condition precedent
to filing suit; it is not an affirmative defense.”  (Castaneda v. Department of Corrections
& Rehabilitation (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 1051, 1061 [cleaned up].)   “[F]ailure to allege facts demonstrating or
excusing compliance with the claim presentation requirements subjects a claim
against a public entity to a demurrer for failure to state a cause of
action.”  (State of California v.
Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 1234, 1239.)  “Moreover, a plaintiff need not allege strict
compliance with the statutory claim presentation requirement.  Courts have long recognized that a claim that
fails to substantially comply with sections 910 and 910.2, may still be
considered a ‘claim as presented’ if it puts the public entity on notice both
that the claimant is attempting to file a valid claim and that litigation will
result if the matter is not resolved.”  (Id.
at p. 1245 [cleaned up].)   
 
3.    
PLAINTIFF’S
COMPLAINT
            
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff failed to satisfy the GCA on the grounds that Defendant
is an employee of the Los Angeles Police Department who was driving a marked
black and white police car at the time of the alleged collision.  
 
            Indeed, the Complaint does not
allege either compliance or exemption from the GCA.  (See Complaint ¶ 9 [left blank].)  But the Complaint also does not allege that
Defendant was driving a black and white police vehicle or that Defendant was acting
in the course of his job as a police officer at the time of the collision.  (See Complaint at ¶ GN-1.)  Instead, Plaintiff alleges in pertinent part
that “Defendant ANDREW P. TAYLOR, an individual, . . . struck the
back side of the Plaintiff’s motorcycle.” 
(Complaint, p. 5, emphasis added.) 

 
Further, Defendant has not presented any judicially noticeable facts
that (1) Defendant is a police officer, (2) Defendant’s vehicle involved in the
collision was a marked black and white police vehicle, (3) that the accident
occurred while Defendant was acting in the course and scope of his employment
with the Los Angeles Police Department or any other City entity, or (4) that
the City has no record of a prefiling claim being filed by or on behalf of
Plaintiff.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Consequently, based upon the allegations of the Complaint, the Court
cannot determine that the GCA even applies to the claims asserted by
Plaintiff.  And without first making that
threshold determination, the Court cannot then determine whether Plaintiff has
complied with the GCA’s presentation requirements.  Therefore, the Court denies Defendant’s
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings.
 
            Defendant shall provide notice of
the Court’s ruling and file the notice with a proof of service forthwith.  
 
 
DATED:  December 19, 2024                        ___________________________
                                                                  Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                  Judge
of the Superior Court