

 
            This is an
action involving a breach of contract and fraud allegedly committed by
Defendants R & Su Corporation (R&SU) and Samual
Mayorga (Mayorga) (jointly, Defendants) against Plaintiff Shimaotong
International Co., Ltd. (Plaintiff). 
 
The complaint alleges that in July
2022, Defendant R&SU entered into a contract with Plaintiff, ordering
approximately 80,000 hoodies for approximately $675,000. Plaintiff then
manufactured the hoodies and shipped them to Defendant R&SU. The products were
delivered, but Plaintiff was not paid for the goods. The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1.) breach of contract, (2.)
breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (3.) fraud, (4.) book
account, (5.) indebitatus assumpsit, (6.) quatum valebant, and (7.) unjust
enrichment. 
 
            Plaintiff
now moves for
an order authorizing Plaintiff to serve Defendant R&SU by personal delivery
of a summons and complaint upon the Secretary of State or an Assistant or
Deputy Secretary of State, rather than by personal service. No opposition was
filed. 
 
            The Court grants
the motion. 
 
Analysis
 
            Plaintiff
moves for a court order allowing it to serve process on Defendant R&SU by
way of service of on the Secretary of State.
 
            “Summons or
other process against such a [dissolved] corporation may be served by
delivering a copy thereof to an officer, director or person having charge of
its assets or, if no such person can be found, to any agent upon whom process
might be served at the time of dissolution. If none of such persons can be
found with due diligence and it is so shown by affidavit to the satisfaction of
the court, then the court may make an order that summons or other process be
served upon the dissolved corporation by personally delivering a copy thereof,
together with a copy of the order, to the Secretary of State or an assistant or
deputy secretary of state. Service in this manner is deemed complete on the
10th day after delivery of the process to the Secretary of State.” (Corp. Code,
§ 2011, subd. (b); see also, Code Civ. Proc., § 416.20.)
 
            Here, R&SU
is and was a domestic California corporation with its principal address located
at 736 S. Ceres Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90021. (Green Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A.) Mayorga
was listed as the sole officer and director of RS&U. (Green Decl., ¶¶ 2-3,
Ex. A.) Upon filing the complaint in this action, Plaintiff made repeated
attempts to serve the summons and complaint on R&SU at its principal
address, which is the same address listed for its agent for service of process.
(Green Decl., ¶ 6.) The process server made four attempts in February 2023 to effectuate
service at this address, but the business was locked and there was no visible
business activity; additional attempts were made thereafter. (Green Decl., ¶¶ 6-8,
Exs. C-D.) Plaintiff also hired Signal Attorney Service, Inc. to conduct a
thorough investigation and due diligence search to locate Mayorga
for service of process; Signal Attorney Service, Inc. reported it was unsuccessful
in locating Mayorga. (Green Decl., ¶ 9.) 
 
On March 13, 2013, Defendant Mayorga
filed a document entitled a “Certificate of Dissolution” with the Secretary of
State stating that R&SU has been dissolved. (Green Decl., ¶ 2, 4, Ex. B.) 
 
            Plaintiff
has demonstrated that R&Su cannot be served with reasonable diligence; the
requirements for allowing service through the California Secretary of State are
satisfied. 
            
Conclusion
 
The motion is granted. “Service in this
manner is deemed complete on the 10th day after delivery of the process to the
Secretary of State.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2011, subd. (b).)
 
The case
management conference and order to show cause re failure to file proof of service
shall be continued to a date determined at the hearing.

