

Hearing Date:             October
25, 2023
Case Name:                Touchstone
Marble and Granite v. J Allyn Construction  
Case No.:                    23STCV00893
Motion:                       Demurrer

Moving Party:             Defendant
J
Allyn Construction Inc.
Opposing Party:          Plaintiff
Touchstone Marble and Granite

Tentative Ruling:      The
Demurrer to the SAC is sustained with leave to amend. 

             
            This case arises from allegations of
a failure to pay for services rendered involving a construction project.  
 
            On January 13, 2023, Plaintiff
Touchstone Marble, Inc. sued Defendant J Allyn Construction Inc. (J Allyn
Construction), alleging a breach of contract in the amount of $73,000 for
failure to pay for services rendered. On February 14, 2023, Plaintiff
Touchstone Marble and Granite filed a First Amended Complaint, substituting in
and replacing Plaintiff Touchstone Marble, Inc. 
 
            On March 13, 2023, Cross-Complainant
Jeffrey J. Allyn dba J. Allyn Construction filed a Cross-Complaint against
Cross-Defendant Touchstone Marble, Inc. for recovery of payments to unlicensed
contractor pursuant to Business and Professions Code section 7031. 
 
That same day, Jeffrey
J. Allyn dba J. Allyn Construction, as the defendant in the First Amended
Complaint, filed a demurrer. The Court sustained the demurrer with leave to
amend. 
 
On May 15, 2023,
Plaintiff Touchstone Marble and Granite filed a Second Amended Complaint
alleging causes of action for (1.) breach of contract, and (2.) common count.
 
On May 15, 2023,
Cross-Defendant Touchstone Marble, Inc. filed a demurrer to the
Cross-Complaint. The Court overruled the demurrer.
 
Defendant J Allyn
Construction Inc. now demurs to the Second Amended Complaint. Plaintiff
Touchstone Marble and Granite opposes the demurrer. 
 
            The Court sustains the demurrer with
leave to amend. 
 
Evidentiary Issues
 
         Defendant J Allyn
Construction Inc. requests judicial notice of Exhibits 1-5. The
Court grants the request. (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d), (c).) 
 
Demurrer
 
            A demurrer is an
objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the
face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency
of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley v. Harvey (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a pleading, for the purpose
of determining its effect, its allegations must be liberally construed, with a
view to substantial justice between the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The
court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly
pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law . . ..” ’
” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.)  
 
Analysis 
            
Defendant
J Allyn Construction Inc. demurs to the SAC on the grounds that Plaintiff
Touchstone Marble and Granite has failed to state a claim – specifically,
Plaintiff Touchstone Marble and Granite is not a party to the written contract.
 
The
SAC alleges that Touchstone Marble and Granite and J Allyn Construction Inc.
entered into an agreement whereby Plaintiff performed ceramic and mosaic tile
fabrication and installation work for J Allyn Construction Inc. at 24712 Malibu
Road, Malibu, California 90265 (Property). (SAC ¶¶ 1, 10.) The SAC continues by
alleging that J Allyn Construction Inc. breached the contract by refusing to
pay a $60,000 due per Invoice 1666 for Plaintiff’s ceramic and mosaic tile
fabrication and installation. (SAC ¶¶ 9, 11.)
 
Defendant
J Allyn Construction Inc. now argues that the SAC was brought on behalf of Touchstone
Marble and Granite as “a California Department of Consumer Affairs Contractors
State License Board” with no allegations of its legal status or explanation for
the different party identified in the contract and invoices.
 
In
explaining the change in Plaintiff from the Complaint to the FAC, the SAC alleges
that the name of the plaintiff was corrected from Touchstone Marble, Inc. to
Touchstone Marble and Granite, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473,
subdivision (a)(1). (SAC ¶ 8.) The SAC also alleges that Touchstone Marble,
Inc. and Touchstone Marble and Granite are two separate and distinct companies.
(SAC ¶ 9.) There is no explanation for Touchstone Marble, Inc.’s name on the
parties’ contract and invoices. 
 
The
demurrer is well taken where all the contract and invoices attached to the
pleadings identifies Touchstone Marble Inc. – not Plaintiff Touchstone Marble
and Granite. The pleadings do not explain this inconsistency. Based on this
inconsistency between the allegations and the exhibits, the facts contained in
the exhibits prevail. (Holland v. Morse Diesel Intern., Inc. (2001) 86
Cal.App.4th 1443, 1447 [“If facts appearing in the exhibits contradict those
alleged, the facts in the exhibits take precedence.”].) Thus, Plaintiff
Touchstone Marble and Granite apparently lacks standing to bring the breach of
contract claim. (Hatchwell v. Blue Shield of California (1988) 198
Cal.App.3d 1027, 1034 [“Someone who is not a party to the contract has no
standing to enforce the contract or to recover extra-contract damages for
wrongful withholding of benefits to the contracting party”]
The second cause of action for common
counts fails for similar reasons. Touchstone Marble and Granite’s second
cause of action for common counts alleges indebtedness to Touchstone Marble and
Granite based on invoices issued by non-party Touchstone Marble Inc. with no
mention of the name “Touchstone Marble and Granite.” (SAC ¶ 15, Exhs. B-C.) “When
a common count is used as an alternative way of seeking the same recovery
demanded in a specific cause of action, as in this case, and is based on the
same facts, the common count is demurrable if the cause of action is
demurrable.” (McBride v. Boughton (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 379, 394.) 
The demurrer is sustained to the first
and second causes of action. 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff has had
an opportunity to cure the defects in the pleadings and failed to do so.  Defendant takes the position that the
pleadings cannot be amended, citing Opp v. St. Paul Fire & Marine Ins.
Co. (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 71. 
In Opp, an individual (Opp) held
a contractor's license. (Opp, supra, 154 Cal.App.4th at p. 72.) Opp was
also the president of a corporation, MCI, that did not hold a license. (Ibid.)
Opp, as president of MCI, entered into a subcontract and inserted his
individual contractor's license number where the contract documents called for
a license number. (Id. at pp. 72-73.) When MCI later sued for
compensation under the subcontract, the court entered summary judgment for the
defendant insurer, and the appellate court affirmed. (Id. at pp. 73,
74-76.) The court held that MCI was the contracting party and was unlicensed,
and that MCI's claim therefore was barred by section 7031. (Opp, supra,
at pp. 74-76.) 
Touchstone Marble Inc.’s name on both
the contract and invoices is potentially problematic under Business and
Professions Code section 7031.[1]
 However, Plaintiff is entitled to
one more opportunity to remedy the defects here.
 
Conclusion
 
            The demurrer is sustained in its
entirety. Plaintiff shall have leave to amend. 
The amended complaint shall be served and filed on or before November 27,
2023.
 


