


[1] The parties had significant conflict about the wording
of the judgment.


[2] “In March 2019, in the matter of UCT v. California
Department of Transportation, the Court ruled the inflation adjusted minimum
sales price and the selection of the California Consumer Price index (Cal-CPI)
to make the inflation adjustment were underground regulations.” (Dabney Decl. ¶
6; see also Resp. RJN A.)  


[3] Even if the catalyst theory did apply in these
circumstances, the court would likely find Petitioners established the
requirements to prevail under the catalyst theory for the reasons argued in
reply. (See Reply 2:-5:1.) Petitioners’ writ action and appeal helped catalyze
the legislative change at issue and the lawsuit had
merit and achieved its catalytic effect by threat of victory, not by dint of
nuisance and threat of expense. The record and long litigation history suggest
Petitioners reasonably attempted to settle the litigation as to the inflation adjusted
price issue prior to filing the lawsuit. 



[4] Respondent has not challenged Petitioners’ claim their
lawsuit sought to enforce an important right affecting the public interest. Of
course, Respondent generally contends Petitioners’ lawsuit had no effect.


[5] Respondent has not challenged Petitioners’ claim their
lawsuit conferred a benefit on a large class of person. As noted, however,
Respondent generally contends Petitioners’ lawsuit had no effect.


[6] The staff report also opines that “lowering the
minimum sales price is also likely to expedite the sales of many properties,
thereby increasing the supply of affordable housing and ensuring properties
sold to housing-related entities in Los Angeles remain affordable for 55
years.”  (Ibid.)  


[7] Respondent also argues “[o]n February 18, 2021, UCT
sent a letter to Legislative Counsel regarding its opposition to SB 51. (RFJN
Ex. J.)”  (Opposition 7:25-26.)
Respondents do not demonstrate Petitioners opposed the relevant amendment
prohibiting Respondent from using an inflation adjusted price. In any event,
the relevant legislative amendment was enacted despite the letter cited by
Respondents.  Thus, Respondent’s argument
is not relevant or persuasive.  


[8]
In Marine Forests Society v. California Coastal Com., the Court of
Appeal reversed an award of attorneys’ fees under Code of Civil Procedure section
1021.5 reasoning: “Here, the Legislature’s amendment of section 30312 cannot be viewed as the primary relief
sought by Marine Forests’ complaint, which was aimed at preventing the removal
of its artificial reef. Furthermore, the legislative change did not satisfy
Marine Forests. . . . In sum, Marine Forests failed to establish that defendant
provided the primary relief sought in its litigation.” (Id. at 880.) Here,
in contrast, Petitioners did obtain the primary relief sought in the litigation—an
order precluding an adjustment to a sales price based on inflation.


[9] Petitioners also argue “[t]his litigation conferred a
significant benefit on a large class of persons . . . due to the higher 2023
income standards now set by the California Department of Housing and Community
Development.” (Memo 4:2-6.) Petitioners’ argument is not clear and not fully
developed. On this briefing, Petitioners do not demonstrate this lawsuit caused
Respondent to make some other change in the Roberti regulations. In any event,
the court need not decide this point because the court finds Petitioners are
entitled to fees under Code of Civil Procedure section 1021.5 based on the
legislative changes related to inflation adjusted price.  


[10] Respondent does not address this requirement for
attorneys’ fees under Code of Civil Procedure section 1021.5.


[11] There is no analysis of the Roberti Law and any ongoing
restrictions after any transfer from Respondent to Petitioners.


[12] On July 26, 2019 in United Caltrans Tenants v.
California Department of Transportation, Case No. BS173007, this court made
a attorneys’ fee award based on an hourly rate for Attorney Sutton of $370/hour
and a paralegal rate of $90/hour. Five years later, the hourly rates requested
are reasonable.


[13] Exhibit 2 of the Kegeyan Declaration is unclear. Respondent
appears to object to the entirety of some time entries but also offers
reasonable deductions from those same time entries.


[14] Counsel did receive $16,100 from a third-party
non-profit after the November 2020 trial court judgment. (Sutton Decl. ¶
9.)  

