  Case Number:  23GDCV00580    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date:  07/18/2024 – 8:30am
Case No:23GDCV00580                          
Trial Date: UNSET 
Case Name: RECONSTRUCTION EXPERTS, INC., a Colorado
corporation v. THE EXCELSIOR AT THE AMERICANA AT BRAND HOMEOWNERS’
ASSOCITATION, et al.
 
[TENTATIVE
RULING– MOTION FOR ATTORNEYS’ FEES]
RELIEF REQUESTED¿ 


Relief
requested based on initial moving papers filed on 1/30/2024:
 
“Plaintiff
and Cross-Defendant Reconstruction Experts, Inc. (“RE”) will and hereby does
move, pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure section 405.38, to recover
RE’s attorney’s fees and costs incurred in prevailing on the Motion to Expunge Lis
Pendens (“Motion to Expunge”) filed jointly on September 18, 2023, by
Defendant The Excelsior at The Americana at Brand Homeowners’ Association
(“Excelsior”) and the Member Defendants (as that phrase is used in the Motion
to Expunge). As set forth in RE’s moving papers, RE in this motion requests the
Court award a total of $174,694.00 in attorney’s fees and $4,496.00 in costs
incurred by RE as the prevailing party on the Motion to Expunge. RE requests
this award against Excelsior and Member Defendants jointly and severally. RE
intends to supplementally submit attorneys’ fees and costs in finalizing and
filing this motion (during January 2024) before hearing with the Court on this
matter.
 
RE’s
motion for attorney’s fees and costs incurred in prevailing on the Motion to
Expunge is based on this notice of motion and motion, California Code of Civil
Procedure section 405.38, the concurrently filed supporting memorandum, all
exhibits filed with the motion, the concurrently filed declaration of Jeffrey
B. Baird, the concurrently filed declaration of David E. Nemeth Jr., the
concurrently filed proposed order, all pleadings, papers, and records in this
action, and on such further oral or documentary evidence which may be presented
before or at the hearing on this motion.”
 
(Notice,
p. 1-2.)
 
Relief
requested based on Supplemental Filing:
 
“Plaintiff
and Cross-Defendant Reconstruction Experts, Inc. ("RE") will, and
hereby does, moves and submits this supplemental filing requesting further
prevailing party attorneys' fees and costs ("Supplemental Request")
incurred to (i) prepare, draft, finalize, and file RE's January 30, 2024,
Motion to Recover Prevailing Attorneys' Fees and Costs Pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure Section 405.38 (hereafter the "Initial Application")
with respect to prevailing on the Motion to Expunge Lis Pendens
("Motion to Expunge") filed jointly on September 18, 2023 by
Defendant and Cross-Complainant The Excelsior at The Americana at Brand
Homeowners' Association ("Excelsior") and Defendant and
Cross-Complainant Member Defendants ( as that phrase is used in the Motion to
Expunge); (ii) work on this Supplemental Request preliminary draft; and (iii)
to successfully oppose Excelsior's and the Member Defendants' Petition for Writ
of Mandate ("Writ") filed in the Court of Appeal on the Motion to
Expunge, as well as successfully file with the Court of Appeal RE's Application
to File Certificate of Interested Entities or Persons Under Seal. RE in this
Supplemental Request will separate the incurred attorneys' fees and costs
related to the Court of Appeal legal services on the Motion to Expunge from the
other fees and costs submitted herein associated with the Initial Application
drafting and Supplemental Request drafting in this Court.
 
RE's
Initial Application will be heard on the same date, time, and courtroom
department mentioned above as RE's Supplemental Request. The July 18, 2024
hearing date for RE's Initial Application and this Supplemental Request were
set by the Court at the May 3, 2024 status conference in which counsel for RE,
Excelsior, and the Member Defendants attended.
 
In
RE's Initial Application, RE provided notice this Supplemental Request will be
submitted-prior to hearing-for the attorneys' fees and costs incurred to
prepare, draft, finalize, and file the Initial Application in January 2024
because such amounts were not included in the Initial Application nor the
Initial Application's accounting. RE here in this Supplemental Request submits
the additional attorneys' fees and costs incurred in January 2024 related to
the Initial Application filing, and the attorneys' fees and costs incurred in
March 2024 for preliminarily working on this Supplemental Request, so these
amounts can be accounted for together with the prior Initial Application
amounts already submitted.
 
RE
in this Supplemental Request submits and seeks an additional $21,822.00 in
attorneys' fees and $33.82 in costs incurred (i) in January 2024 to prepare,
draft, finalize, and file the Initial Application; and (ii) in March 2024 to
work on this Supplemental Request preliminary draft. As set forth in this
Supplemental Request, the total attorneys' fees and costs incurred by RE at the
trial court level to prevail on the Motion to Expunge, submit the Initial
Application, and work on the Supplemental Request, is as follows:
 
Initial
Application and Supplemental Request Trial Court Attorneys' Fees:
(i) Attorneys'
Fees Submitted in Initial Application: $174,694.00
(ii)
Supplemental Request: Trial Court Attorneys' Fees: $21,822.00
(iii) Grand Total
Trial Court Attorneys' Fees (i+ii): $196,516.00
 
Initial
Application and Supplemental Request Trial Court Costs:
(i) Costs
Submitted in Initial Application: $4,496.00
(ii) Supplemental
Request: Trial Court Costs: $33.82
(iii) Grand Total
Trial Court Costs (i+ii): $4,529.82 

Thus,
in total, RE is entitled to $196,516.00 in attorneys' fees ("Trial Court
Fees") and $4,529.82 in costs ("Trial Court Costs") to prevail
on the Motion to Expunge at the trial court level.
 
On
December 7, 2023, Excelsior and the Member Defendants filed the Writ on the
Motion to Expunge in the Court of Appeal. Based on the Writ, RE incurred
further attorneys' fees and costs at the Court of Appeal level to file
an opposition to the Writ ("Writ Opposition") and file a Certificate
of Interested Entities or Persons Under Seal ("COIE Under Seal"). On
May 2, 2024, after considering RE's Writ Opposition, the Court of Appeal denied
the Writ and granted RE's COIE Under Seal. RE in this Supplemental Request
therefore seeks the attorneys' fees and costs incurred at the Court of Appeal
level to successfully file the Writ Opposition and COIE Under Seal as such
tasks were performed as part of prevailing on the Motion to Expunge.
 
As
set forth in this Supplemental Request, RE requests $42,069.50 in attorneys'
fees ("Appeal Fees") and $259.89 in costs ("Appeal Costs")
as further prevailing on the Motion to Expunge at the Court of Appeal level
related to successfully filing the Writ Opposition and COIE Under Seal. RE's
attorneys' fees and costs for April 2024 legal services are reserved and not
included in this Supplemental Request because such invoice was not finalized at
the time of preparing this submission. For the same reason, RE also reserves
all rights to fees and costs for May 2024 legal services to finalize and file
this Supplemental Request.
 
In
total, accounting for the Initial Application and this Supplemental Request, RE
submits and seeks the following total amounts for prevailing on the Motion to
Expunge:
 
(i)                
Trial
Court Fees:          $196,516.00
(ii)             
Appeal Fees:                $42,069.50
(iii)           
Total Attorneys’ Fees: $238,585.50
(iv)            
Trial
Court Costs:         $4,529.82
(v)              
Appeal Costs:                $259.89
(vi)            
Total Costs:                   $4,789.71
(vii)         
Grant Total Fees and Costs (iii + vi) $243,375.21
 
RE's
Supplemental Request is based on this notice, the concurrently filed supporting
memorandum; the concurrently filed declaration of Jeffrey B. Baird in support
of the Supplemental Request; the concurrently filed declaration of David E.
Nemeth in support of the Supplemental Request; the concurrently filed proposed
order; and on such further oral or documentary evidence which may be presented
before or at the hearing on the Supplemental Request. This Supplemental Request
is also based on the Initial Application; California Code of Civil Procedure
section 405.38; and all exhibits, declarations, and proposed order concurrently
filed with the Initial Application.”
 
(Supplemental
Notice, p. 1-5.)
 
PROCEDURAL
Moving Party: Plaintiff and
Cross-Defendant, Reconstruction Experts, Inc. (Movant, Plaintiff, or RE)
Responding Party: Defendants and Cross-Complainants,
The Excelsior at the Americana at Brand Homeowners’ Association and Member
Defendants

16/21
Day Lapse (CCP § 12c and § 1005(b): Ok
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, Rule 3.1300): Ok
Correct Address (CCP § 1013, § 1013a): Uncertain – The Court will hear argument
as to if the moving papers were served on all Defendants. Scott Levine appears
to represent Defendant Excelsior and the Member Defendants. The email address
on the proof of service for Scott Levine matches with the email address that is
listed on eCourt for Scott Levine. The proof of service also lists the attorneys
for Defendant and Cross-Complainant Sierra Pacific Mortgage Company, Inc. The
email address on eCourt matches with the email address on the proof of service
as to Sierra’s counsel. The proof of service also lists that this motion was
served on Defendant Pennymac Loan Services LLC, Rocket Mortgage LLC, AMWest
Funding Corp, Evertrust Bank, and MERS. The email address on eCourt for these
parties’ counsel does not match the email address on the proof of service for
these parties’ counsel. 
Moving Papers:
All filed on 1/30/2024: Notice; Memorandum; David E. Nemeth Jr. Declaration;
Jeffrey B. Baird Declaration; Proposed Order; Proof of Service
Moving Supplemental Papers:
All filed on 5/13/2024: Notice For Supplemental Filing; Memorandum Supplemental
Filing; David E. Nemeth Jr. Declaration for Supplemental Filing; Jeffrey B.
Baird Declaration for Supplemental Filing; Proposed Order Supplemental Filing; Proof
of Service
Opposition Papers:
Opposition; Proof of Service; Scott D. Levine Declaration; Mitchell S. Golub
Declaration; 
Reply Papers:
Reply; Proof Of Service
ANALYSIS
Prevailing Party
Under CCP § 405.38, “The court shall direct that the
party prevailing on any motion under this chapter be awarded the reasonable
attorney’s fees and costs of making or opposing the motion unless the court
finds that the other party acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of attorney’s fees and costs unjust.” (Ibid.)
The party successfully defending against the motion to
expunge the lis pendens is the prevailing party for purposes of 405.38. (See J
& A Mash & Barrel, LLC v. Superior Court of Fresno County (2022) 74
Cal.App.5th 1, 44.)
Here, Movant/Plaintiff, was the prevailing party based
on the fact that this Court denied Defendants’ motion to expunge the lis
pendens on 11/17/2023. (See 11/9/2023 and 11/17/2023 Minute Orders). 
Reasonable Attorney’s Fees and Costs
The
initial moving papers filed on 1/30/2024 request attorneys’ fees in the amount
of $174,694.00 and costs in the amount of $4,496.00.
Movant submitted the declarations of Jeffrey B. Baird
(Baird), counsel for Movant, and David E. Nemeth Jr., an attorney that does not
represent Movant who opines on the reasonableness of Movant’s fees. 
The request the initial moving papers are based on the
fees and costs for September, October, and November 2023 based on services
incurred opposing the motion to expunge. The initial moving papers argue that
the fees and costs sustained after being served Defendants’ motion to expunge
were necessary to: (i) analyze Defendants’ Motion to Expunge; (ii) outline and
research authority in the preparation of RE’s defense; (iii) prepare a 25-page
Opposition pleading; (iv) significant involvement with RE’s percipient
witnesses and experts to prepare admissible factual support for the various
components underlying the Lien’s claim entitlement and accounting; (v) work
with RE’s percipient witnesses and experts to finalize the respective
declarations (157 pages in total); (vi) review voluminous Project records and
prepare a Notice of Lodgment with 86-exhibits in support of the Lien; and (vii)
multiple hearings with the Court and oral arguments on the Motion to Expunge.
(See Pl. Mot. p. 16.)
The explanation for the reasonableness of Movant’s
requests for fees and costs can more fully be examined in the declarations of
Baird and Nemeth.
The supplemental papers request additional fees and
costs. [The moving papers noted that supplemental papers would be filed.] The
supplemental request filed on 5/13/2024 requests additional attorneys’ fees of
$21,822.00 and costs of $33.82 from the services related to filing the initial
moving papers for this motion and the services related to the supplemental
papers filed on 5/13/2024.
The supplemental papers also request attorneys’ fees
in the amount of $42,069.50 and costs of $259.89 for services rendered in the
Court of Appeal to successfully oppose the writ.
In total, based on initial and moving papers, Movant
requests attorneys’ fees in the amount of $238,585.50 and costs of $4,789.71.
The supplemental papers also include declarations of
Baird and Nemeth attesting to the reasonableness of these requests. 
General Legal Standard - Lodestar and
Multiplier 
“A trial court assessing attorney
fees begins with a touchstone or lodestar figure, based on the careful
compilation of the time spent and reasonable hourly compensation of each
attorney involved in the presentation of the case.” (Christian Research
Institute v. Alnor (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1321 [internal quotations
omitted].)  “The reasonableness of attorney fees is within the discretion
of the trial court, to be determined from a consideration of such factors as
the nature of the litigation, the complexity of the issues, the experience and
expertise of counsel and the amount of time involved.  [citation] The
court may also consider whether the amount requested is based upon unnecessary
or duplicative work.”  (Wilkerson v. Sullivan (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th
443, 448.)  “The basis for the trial court's calculation must be the
actual hours counsel has devoted to the case, less those that result from
inefficient or duplicative use of time.” (Horsford v. Board Of Trustees Of California State University (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th
359, 395.) “The law is clear, however, that an award of attorney fees may
be based on counsel's declarations, without production of detailed time
records.”  (Raining Data Corp. v. Barrenechea (2009) 175
Cal.App.4th 1363, 1375.) “...[T]he verified time statements of the attorneys,
as officers of the court, are entitled to credence in the absence of a clear
indication the records are erroneous.” (Horsford v. Board of Trustees of
California State University (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 359, 396.)  The
Court has the discretion to reduce the amount of fees (or deny recovery
altogether) when the amount of attorney fees is inflated. (Serrano v. Unruh (1982)
32 Cal.3d 621, 635; Meister v. Regents of the Univ. of California (1998)
67 Cal. App. 4th 437, 455). 
 
In setting the hourly rate for an attorney fees award,
courts are entitled to consider the rate of “fees customarily charged by that
attorney and others in the community for similar work.” (Bihun v. AT&T
Information Systems, Inc. (1993) 13 Cal. App. 4th 976, 997 [affirming rate
of $450 per hour], overruled on other grounds by Lakin v. Watkins Associated
Indus. (1993) 6 Cal. 4th 644, 664; see also Heritage Pacific Financial,
LLC v. Monroy (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 972, 1009 [“[R]ate determinations in
other cases, particularly those setting a rate for the plaintiffs' attorney,
are satisfactory evidence of the prevailing market rate.”].)    


The Court in Serrano IV also stated that fees
associated with preparing the motion to recover attorneys’ fees are
recoverable. (Serrano v.
Unruh (1982) 32 Cal.3d 621, 624
(Serrano IV).)

The
lodestar amount “may be adjusted by the court based on factors including (1)
the novelty and difficulty of the questions involved, (2) the skill displayed
in presenting them, (3) the extent to which the nature of the litigation
precluded other employment by the attorneys, [and] (4) the contingent nature of
the fee award.”¿ (Bernardi¿v. County of Monterey¿(2008) 167 Cal.App.4th
1379, 1399 [citing Ketchum v. Moses (2001) 24 Cal.4th 1122, 1132].)¿ The
purpose of any lodestar and the increase thereto “is intended to approximate
market-level compensation for such services” and is entirely discretionary.¿
(Id.)¿ “The purpose of a fee enhancement is not to reward attorneys for
litigating certain kinds of cases, but to fix a reasonable fee in a particular
action.”¿ (Weeks v. Baker & McKenzie¿(1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1128,
1171-72.)
Opposition on Reasonableness
The
Opposition argues that Movant’s requests for attorneys’ fees and costs is
unreasonable. Exhibit A in the Levine Declaration in the Opposition includes
the Opposition’s objections to Movant’s billing entries. Opposition argues that
Movant’s requests include entries that are unrelated to the Motion to Expunge,
duplicative entries, excessive hours, administrative tasks billed by attorneys
at high hourly rates, and more. Opposition argues the billing entries lack
specificity, are vague, include block billing, and make it unclear if they
pertain to the motion to expunge.
Opposition also cites to a case that supports the
argument that courts can compare opposing counsel’s fees to help determine
whether the moving party’s fees are reasonable.
Substantially Justified
Movant
argues Defendants’ did not act with substantial justification in filing the
motion to expunge because it lacked evidentiary and legal merit. As to what is
considered substantial justification under § 405.38, neither party provides
case law directly on point as to what is considered substantial justification.
Opposition accurately points out that Movant’s argument regarding J&A
Mash is not directly on point because that case did not define substantial justification.

However, both parties cite case law that substantial
justification has been understood to mean being justified to a degree that
would satisfy a reasonable person reasonably based in both law and fact. 
Opposition argues that unlike the motion to expunge,
the present motion concerns the reasonableness of Excelsior’s position rather
than its success. Opposition argues that just because the Court did not agree
with Excelsior’s position does not at all mean it was not substantially
justified. 
Opposition argues that nowhere in the Court’s order on
the motion to expunge the lis pendens or during the hearing did the Court
suggest that Excelsior’s motion was frivolous or that it abused the lis pendens
procedure for ulterior motives. 
Movant also argues that Defendants were not
substantially justified in filing the motion to expunge by citing portions from
the 11/9/2023 Minute Order. For example, this Court in the 11/9/2023 Minute
Order stated, “Rather than coherent argument, the Movant turns repeatedly to
overheated rhetoric that aids no one, generating more heat than light.”
(11/9/2023 Minute Order p. 38-39.)
Further, Movant points to a portion of the 11/9/2023
Minute Order that states:
This type of rhetoric—accusing another
party of “extort[ion]” and “strong-arm” tactics, name-calling, etc.—is utterly
unhelpful and ineffective, and suggests that rhetoric is being deployed in
place of detailed and well-supported legal argument. 
Plaintiff’s detailed legal argument in
opposition, supported by numerous detailed and specific declarations, with
supporting exhibits, makes Movant’s suggestion that Plaintiff is engaged in any
kind of “sham” or “extort[ion]” utterly lacking in credibility. There is
nothing about the Plaintiff’s case, in the Court’s view, that would suggest to
any reasonable observer that it is a “fraudulent activity and misuse of the
courts.” Those are grave accusations to level against opposing counsel, and
counsel for Movant should be prepared to address those accusations at the
hearing.
(Min. Order, 11/9/2023,
p. 39.)
The Court will hear argument.
Recovering Fees and Costs for the Instant
Motion and On Appeal
Movant
cites authority that although not directly on point, supports the position that
Movant can recover for fees and costs for the filing of the instant motion and
for filing of the opposition of the appeal. 
Opposition argues that Movant cannot recover for the
filing of the instant motion and the fees and costs on appeal. Opposition bases
its arguments on the language of the statute because 405.38 does not directly
mention recovering fees and costs for the filing of the motion for attorney’s
fees and the appeal. Opposition argues that 405.38 only applies to making or
opposing the motion to expunge. Opposition argues that the words of the statute
should be given their ordinary and usual meaning. 
The Court will hear argument. Neither party provides
arguments that are directly on point. 
Apportionment
Opposition
argues that Movant did not apportion the request for fees and costs between the
Association and Member Defendants. While Opposition argues that courts have
discretion in apportioning fees based on relative culpability, Opposition
provides no argument as to what is a fair way to apportion fees and costs. Further,
the Reply argues that the Defendants filed a joint motion to expunge. 
The Court will hear argument.
Fees Not Required at this Point
Opposition
argues that fees are not required to be awarded at this point in the litigation
because Movant and Excelsior signed a contract with a prevailing party clause.
Opposition argues that if Movant prevails now, it is uncertain whether these
attorney’s fees and costs will be returned to Excelsior if it becomes the
prevailing party at trial. Opposition argues that it would be absurd if
Excelsior prevails at trial, but the Court now finds that Excelsior did not act
with substantial justification in filing the motion to expunge. The Reply
argues that 405.38 mandates an award of attorneys’ fees and costs to the
prevailing party and that the legislature did not require a prevailing party to
wait until the end of the underlying litigation to recover on the motion to
expunge with respect to attorneys’ fees and costs. Opposition also argues this
motion should be stayed pending the conclusion of litigation. 
TENTATIVE RULING
The Court will hear argument. 
Correct Address (CCP § 1013, § 1013a): Uncertain – The
Court will hear argument as to if the moving papers were served on all
Defendants. Scott Levine appears to represent Defendant Excelsior and the
Member Defendants. [Not entirely clear who all the “Member Defendants” are.
Opposition does not indicate who Member Defendants are.] The email address on
the proof of service for Scott Levine matches with the email address that is
listed on eCourt for Scott Levine. The proof of service also lists the
attorneys for Defendant and Cross-Complainant Sierra Pacific Mortgage Company,
Inc. The email address on eCourt matches with the email address on the proof of
service as to Sierra’s counsel. The proof of service also lists that this
motion was served on Defendant Pennymac Loan Services LLC, Rocket Mortgage LLC,
AMWest Funding Corp, Evertrust Bank, and MERS. The email address on eCourt for
these parties’ counsel does not match the email address on the proof of service
for these parties’ counsel. 
 