 Case Number:  23GDCV01613    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 07/18/2024 – 8:30am
Case No: 23GDCV01613
Trial Date: 04/07/2025
Case Name: PINK PLASTIC LLC, a Virginia limited liability company; v. 1725
VICTORY LLC, a California limited liability company; and DOES 1-50
[TENTATIVE
RULING ON MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE CROSS-COMPLAINT]
RELIEF REQUESTED
“Defendant
1725 Victory, LLC (“Victory”) will and hereby does move the above-referenced
court, located at South Glendale Avenue in Glendale, California, for leave to
file a cross-complaint for breach of contract, breach of the covenant of good
faith and fair dealing, and breach of guaranty against Plaintiff Pink Plastic,
LLC and its guarantor Maramawit G. Dorsey (the “Proposed Cross-Complaint”) on
the following grounds:
1. Victory’s Proposed Cross-Complaint arises from the
same contract and events already at issue in this case. (See Defendant's
Proposed Cross-Complaint attached as Exhibit “A,” and see Plaintiff’s Verified
Complaint on file with this Court.) 
2. Leave is mandatory where the cross-claims are
compulsory and there is no evidence of bad faith on the part of the moving
party. (Code. Civ. Proc. § 426.50; Silver Orgs. v. Frank (1990) 217
Cal.App.3d 94, 98-99.) 
3. Even if the cross-claims are considered permissive
rather than compulsory, the interests of justice would nevertheless warrant an
Order granting this Motion for Leave. (Code Civ. Proc. § 428.50.) 
4. Granting this Motion for Leave would not cause any
delay or prejudice any party. 
5. Leave is necessary to advance justice, to
facilitate judicial economy, and to accommodate the resolution of all
outstanding issues within a single action. Absent leave, the parties would
suffer prejudice as duplicative actions could result in potentially
inconsistent rulings. 
6. Victory has acted in good faith, diligently seeking
leave to file its Proposed Cross-Complaint.
This motion is brought pursuant to the provisions of
Section 426.50 of the Code of Civil Procedure and is based upon this notice,
the attached memorandum of points and authorities and exhibits thereto, the
documents on file with the Court in this action, on any matters of which this
Court may take judicial notice, and upon all argument, evidence and papers
properly presented to the Court at the time of the hearing on this motion.”
(Mot. p. 1-2.)
BACKGROUND
On
07/28/2023, Plaintiff, Pink Plastic LLC, filed the instant action against
Defendant, 1725 Victory LLC. The Complaint alleges three causes of action for:
(1) Breach of Contract, (2) Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing,
and (3) Negligent Misrepresentation.
Plaintiff’s Complaint alleges that on or about August
25, 2022, Plaintiff and Defendant entered into a commercial lease. (Compl. ¶
7.) The causes of action stem from allegations that there was a leak in the
roof and that Defendant failed to uphold its obligations under the terms of the
lease.
Defendant filed its Answer on 10/13/2023.
Defendant filed the instant motion on 6/20/2024.
PROCEDURAL ANALYSIS
Moving
Party: Defendant, 1725 Victory, LLC
Responding Party: Plaintiff, Pink Plastic
Moving Papers: Notic/Motion; Witkin Declaration; Request
for Judicial Notice; Emami Declaration; Proof of Service

Opposition Papers: Opposition

Reply Papers: Reply
Proof of Service
Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP § 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address (CCP §1 013, § 1013a, § 1013b): Ok
ANALYSIS
Compulsory vs. Permissive Cross-Claims
Movant
argues that leave to file a cross-complaint is warranted whether its claims are
considered compulsory under CCP § 426.50 or permissive under 428.50.
Opposition makes no argument as to whether the instant
cross-complaint would be a compulsory or permissive cross-complaint.
Because Opposition did not seem to make any argument
as to whether the cross-complaint here would be compulsory or permissive, the
Court will put both legal standards below.
Legal Standard Compulsory Cross-Complaint
Code
of Civil Procedure section 426.10 et seq. sets forth California’s
“compulsory cross-complaint" statute. (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.10 et
seq. [titled “Compulsory Cross-Complaints"].) Therein, Code of
Civil Procedure section 426.30 provides, “if a party against whom a complaint
has been filed and served fails to allege in a cross-complaint any related
cause of action which (at the time of serving his answer to the complaint) he
has against the plaintiff, such party may not thereafter in any other action assert
against the plaintiff the related cause of action not pleaded.” (Ibid.)
 Related cause of action means “a cause of action which arises out of the
same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the
cause of action which the plaintiff alleges in his complaint.” (CCP §426.10(c).
In the event a party fails to file a compulsory
cross-complaint concurrently with his or her answer, CCP §426.50 provides the
following available remedies:
A party who fails to plead a cause of
action subject to the requirements of this article, whether through oversight,
inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other cause, may apply to the court for
leave to amend his pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert such cause
at any time during the course of the action. The court, after notice to the
adverse party, shall grant, upon such terms as may be just to the parties,
leave to amend the pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to assert such
cause if the party who failed to plead the cause acted in good faith. This
subdivision shall be liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of
action.
(CCP §426.50)
“A policy of liberal construction of section 426.50 to
avoid forfeiture of causes of action is imposed on the trial court. A motion to
file a cross-complaint at any time during the course of the action must be
granted unless bad faith of the moving party is demonstrated where forfeiture
would otherwise result. Factors such as oversight, inadvertence, neglect,
mistake or other cause, are insufficient grounds to deny the motion unless
accompanied by bad faith.” (Silver Organizations Ltd. v. Frank (1990)
217 Cal.App.3d 94, 98-99.)
Legal Standard Permissive Cross-Complaint
Under
CCP § 428.10:
A party against whom a cause of action has
been asserted in a complaint or cross-complaint may file a cross-complaint
setting forth either or both of the following:
(a) Any cause of action he has
against any of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against
him. Nothing in this subdivision authorizes the filing of a cross-complaint
against the plaintiff in an action commenced under Title 7 (commencing with
Section 1230.010) of Part 3.
(b) Any cause of action he has
against a person alleged to be liable thereon, whether or not such person is
already a party to the action, if the cause of action asserted in his
cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or
series of transactions or occurrences as the cause brought against him or
(2) asserts a claim, right, or interest in the property or controversy
which is the subject of the cause brought against him.
(CCP § 428.10(a)-(b).)
Under CCP § 428.50:
(a) A party shall file a
cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the complaint or
cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as the answer to
the complaint or cross-complaint.
(b) Any other cross-complaint may be
filed at any time before the court has set a date for trial.
(c) A party shall obtain leave of
court to file any cross-complaint except one filed within the time specified in
subdivision (a) or (b). Leave may be granted in the interest of justice at any
time during the course of the action.
(CCP § 428.50(a)-(c).)
Discussion
Defendant
seeks leave to file a cross-complaint against Plaintiff and its guarantor
Maramawit G. Dorsey. 
A significant amount of both parties’ arguments in
moving, opposition, and reply papers are irrelevant for purposes of this
motion, as both parties waste time disputing the merits of this case.
The proposed cross-complaint appears to assert causes
of actions which arise out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of
transactions or occurrences as the cause of action which the Plaintiff alleges
in the Complaint. The proposed cross-complaint pertains to the same exact lease
as the Complaint and allegations pertaining to the alleged source of the leak.
The cross-complaint also seeks to add a new party, Dorsey, because of
allegations that Defendant and Dorsey executed a Guaranty and that Dorsey
breached the Guaranty.
Further, Movant appears to have acted in good faith,
Movant does not appear to have acted in bad faith, and it would be in the
interest of justice to grant leave to file the proposed cross-complaint. 
The Opposition’s arguments are unpersuasive and
unavailing. 
The Court notes that Movant’s motion was centered
around the allegation that there was a third-party roof inspection report that
Pink Plastic commissioned which evidenced that the roof was not leaking but
that instead the HVAC was leaking. Movant alleged that Pink Plastic concealed
this report until April 2024.
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant’s
motion for leave to file a cross-complaint is GRANTED. Defendant is to file and
serve its cross-complaint within 15 days of this order.
The Court reminds Defendant of the service obligations
set forth in CCP § 428.60:
A cross-complaint shall be served on each
of the parties in an action in the following manner:
(1) If a party has not appeared in
the action, a summons upon the cross-complaint shall be issued and served upon
him in the same manner as upon commencement of an original action.
(2) If a party has appeared in the
action, the cross-complaint shall be served upon his attorney, or upon the
party if he has appeared without an attorney, in the manner provided for
service of summons or in the manner provided by Chapter 5 (commencing with
Section 1010) of Title 14 of Part 2 of this code.
(CCP § 428.60(1)-(2).)
The Court GRANTS judicial notice of requests 2 and 3. The
Court will likely deny request for judicial notice 1. Defendant seeks judicial
notice of the entire record in the instant case “for the limited purpose of
establishing the fact that no one, including Pink Plastic ever attached a copy
of the Report to any pleading or motion in the instant case, and not for the
truth of the claims asserted.” With RJN 1, Defendant seeks judicial notice of
“the pleadings and papers filed in the proceedings in the instant case.”
However, the Court will not be going through every document filed in this case
to determine if Pink Plastic ever attached a copy of “the Report.” If this
issue is ever leally relevant, then Movant can bring up this issue on whatever
motion it is legally relevant on. For now, it does not appear to be legally
relevant or dispositive for purposes of determining how to rule on the instant
motion.
 
 
 