 Case Number:  23GDCV02307    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  E Case No: 23GDCV02307
Hearing Date: 07/18/2024 – 8:30am
Trial Date: UNSET
Case Name: JOHN WOOD, as assignee of the Estate of Donald
R. Wood; v. MARK G. MCNELIS; and MARK G. MCNELIS & ASSOCIATES, CPA’S, INC.,
and DOES 1-20
 
[TENTATIVE RULING ON
DEMURRER & MOTION TO STRIKE]
Moving Party:  Defendants, Mark G. Mcnelis and Mark G. Mcnelis
& Associates, CPA’s, Inc.
Responding Party:
Plaintiff, John Wood 
Moving Papers: Notice/Demurrer
Opposition Papers: Opposition
Reply Papers: No Reply
RELIEF REQUESTED
Defendants demur to all four causes of action in the Second Amended Complaint
(SAC) filed 5/13/2024 on grounds of failure to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action under CCP § 430.10(e).
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff’s initial Complaint
was filed on 10/30/2023.
An
Amended Complaint (AC) was filed on 2/5/2024. On 2/16/2024, Defendants’
demurrer to the initial Complaint was denied as moot based on the filing of the
Amended Complaint. 
On
April 11, 2024, this Court heard Defendants’ demurrer to the AC. The AC
asserted causes of action for: (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Common Counts, and
(3) Accounting. On April 11, 2024, this Court overruled the demurrer to the
first two causes of action and sustained the demurrer with leave to amend as to
the third cause of action.
On
05/13/2024, Plaintiff filed the SAC. The SAC alleges four causes of action: (1)
Breach of Contract, (2) Common Counts, (3) Accounting, and (4) Unfair
Competition.
PROCEDURAL ANALYSIS
Proof of Service
Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address (CCP §1013, §1013a, §1013b):Ok
Meet and Confer
A party filing a
demurrer “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., §430.41, subd. (a).)  “The parties
shall meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive
pleading is due. If the parties are not able to meet and confer at least five
days prior to the date the responsive pleading is due, the demurring party
shall be granted an automatic 30-day extension of time within which to file a
responsive pleading, by filing and serving, on or before the date on which a
demurrer would be due, a declaration stating under penalty of perjury that a
good faith attempt to meet and confer was made and explaining the reasons why
the parties could not meet and confer.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §430.41, subd. (a)(2).) 
Failure
to sufficiently meet and confer is not grounds to overrule or sustain a
demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §430.41(a)(4).)
Here,
Defendants’ counsel alleges that the parties were unable to resolve the issue
presented by this demurrer. (Bates Decl. ¶ 5.)
LEGAL STANDARDS FOR DEMURRERS
Demurrer
– Sufficiency
A demurrer for sufficiency
tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda, (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
740, 747.)  When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of
Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)  The court “treat[s]
the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law ….”  (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 525.)  In a demurrer proceeding,
the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice.  (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins.
Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) 
A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters; therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed. 
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.30, 430.70.) 
The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint,
as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn,
supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)  
The
general rule is that the plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts, not
evidentiary facts.  (Doe v. City of
Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.) 
“All that is required of a plaintiff, as a matter of pleading … is that
his complaint set forth the essential facts of the case with reasonable
precision and with sufficient particularity to acquaint the defendant with the
nature, source and extent of his cause of action.”  (Rannard v. Lockheed Aircraft Corp.
(1945) 26 Cal.2d 149, 156-157.)  
On
demurrer, a trial court has an independent duty to “determine whether or not
the … complaint alleges facts sufficient to state a cause of action under any
legal theory.”  (Das v. Bank of
America, N.A. (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 727, 734.)  Demurrers do not lie as to only parts of
causes of action, where some valid claim is alleged but “must dispose of an
entire cause of action to be sustained.” 
(Poizner v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97,
119.)  “Generally
it is an abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if
there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by
amendment.”  (Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.)


ANALYSIS 
First Cause of Action (Breach of Oral Contract)
This action arises from
an alleged oral contract that was entered into between John Wood’s Assignor
(the Estate of Donald R. Wood “Wood Estate”) and Defendants on or about May 20,
2020. 
Plaintiff
alleges that on or about May 20, 2020 an oral agreement was entered between the
Wood Estate and Defendants “whereby the Wood Estate would transfer client files
held by Donald R. Wood prior to his death on April 23, 2020 in exchange for
Defendants’ agreement to pay the Wood Estate twenty-five percent (25%) of all
fees, if any, earned by Defendants over a period of four years following the
transfer of the aforementioned clients and/or client files. Since neither
Plaintiff nor Plaintiff's assignor could guarantee that any of the clients
whose files were transferred to Defendants would agree to utilize the services
offered to them by Defendants within the following year, it is possible that
Defendants would owe nothing to Plaintiff's assignor if such clients failed or
refused to conduct business with Defendants. However, Plaintiff is informed and
believes that several of the aforementioned clients whose files had been
transferred to Defendants by the Wood Estate agreed to utilize the services
offered by Defendants, and did in fact utilize Defendants’ services.” (SAC ¶ 13.)
Defendants
demur on the basis of the statute of frauds by citing to Civil Code §1624(a)(1)
which states, “The following contracts are invalid, unless they, or some note
or memorandum thereof, are in writing and subscribed by the party to be charged
or by the party’s agent: (1) An agreement that by its terms is not to be
performed within a year from the making thereof.” (Civil Code §1624(a)(1).)
Defendants
point out that the allegations in the SAC are for an oral contract over a
period of four years; Defendants argue the contract could not be performed
within a year from the making thereof and is barred by the Statute of Frauds
under Civil Code § 1624.
Tentative Ruling – First Cause of Action Breach of Oral Contract
“The fact that it is not
probable or likely to be performed within a year from the date it is made does
not make it invalid if by its terms it is possible that the contract may be
performed within a year after it is made.” (Fisher v. Parsons (1963) 213
Cal.App.2d 829, 837.)
In
Opposition, Plaintiff argues that it was possible that the contract could have
been performed within one year. Plaintiff argues: 
In the instant case it was possible that the contract could have
been performed within one year. One such possibility exists if each of those
clients whose files were transferred to Defendants demanded the return of their
files. Another such possibility exists if each of those clients simply refused
to engage Defendants as their tax accountant. The allegations in Paragraph 13
(pg. 3) which are incorporated into each cause of action clearly state that it
was possible that the contract could be completed within one year if the
“clients failed or refused to conduct business with Defendants.” Since the
contract had the possibility of being performed within year, the defense of the
statute of frauds does not apply.
 (Oppo. p. 4-5.)
Here,
after further consideration in reading the SAC and reading the Opposition’s
arguments on how it is possible that the contract could have been performed
within one year, the Court fails to understand Plaintiff’s argument on how the
contract could be performed within one year. 
The
alleged oral agreement is for a term of four years. Plaintiff argues that the contract
could be performed within one year if each of those clients whose files were
transferred to Defendants demanded the return of their files. The Court fails
to understand this argument, because based on the allegations of  the oral contract, the contract is still for
a term of four years. The allegations of the oral contract alleged that “25% of
all fees, if any, earned by Defendants over a period of four years following
the transfer of the aforementioned clients and/or client files.” The Court is
unclear on how returning the files, presumably within the first year, shows
that the contract could be performed within a year, because by the very nature
of the terms of the alleged oral agreement, whether or not the demand of the
files happened within the first year appears to be of no significance because
the terms of the oral contract allege that the oral contract applies for a
period of four years. Thus, the Court is unclear how Plaintiff is presumably
arguing that returning the files within a year terminates the four year
contract.
Plaintiff
also argues that the contract could be performed within a year because “[a]nother
such possibility exists if each of those clients simply refused to engage
Defendants as their tax accountant.” The Court also fails to understand
Plaintiff’s argument here. The terms of the contract say  “…25% of all fees, if any, earned by
Defendants over a period of four years…” Therefore, even if the clients refuse
to engage them as their accountant, the oral contract already considered that
issue by stating “25% of all fees, if any…” The exact terms of
the oral contract appear to consider the fact that it is possible that there could
be no fees earned. Either way, if there were fees earned or not, it appears as
if this agreement were to apply for a four year period.
Plaintiff
also argues that the allegations in Paragraph 13 (pg. 3) which are incorporated
into each cause of action clearly state that it was possible that the contract
could be completed within one year if the “clients failed or refused to conduct
business with Defendants.” However, the SAC does not in fact state that it was
possible that the contract could be completed within one year. The SAC says, “Since
neither Plaintiff nor Plaintiff's assignor could guarantee that any of the
clients whose files were transferred to Defendants would agree to utilize the
services offered to them by Defendants within the following year, it is
possible that Defendants would owe nothing to Plaintiff's assignor if such
clients failed or refused to conduct business with Defendants.” (SAC ¶ 13.) The
allegations state that it is possible that Defendants would owe nothing if such
clients failed or refused to conduct business with Defendants. The allegations
do not state that the contract could be completed within one year.
The
Opposition also argued that Defendants partially performed the agreement and a
contract that might otherwise be subject to the statute of frauds may by entire
or partial performance support the contract. Plaintiff cites to Fisher v.
Parsons (1963) 213 Cal.App.2d 829, 836 to support their argument.
Plaintiffs also argue that “Plaintiff has alleged partial performance, and
Defendants reaffirmed the existence of the contract and the obligation to pay
the Wood Estate at all times prior to September 30, 2023 when Mark G. McNelis
told Plaintiff that no more accountings would be provided, or payments made.”
(Oppo. p. 5.) 
An
issue with the Plaintiff’s argument here is that Fisher does not state
what Plaintiff alleges it to state. The citation to Fisher at 836 is
cited entirely out of context. In the partial performance portion of the
ruling, the Fisher court was not discussing the statute of frauds. The
portion of the ruling in Fisher on partial performance occurred before
the Fisher court even addressed the statute of frauds. The portion on
partial performance was in a section generally discussing contract formation
and law pertaining to requirements contracts.
The
Court will hear argument, but based on Plaintiff’s Opposition and allegations
in the SAC, the Court fails to see how the instant contract could be performed
within a year. Defendant’s demurrer to the first cause of action for breach of
oral contract is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND GRANTED. 
Second Cause of Action – Common Counts
The Court will hear from
both parties on the cause of action titled “Common Counts.” It is unclear to
the Court what this cause of action is. It is not for accounting, because the
third cause of action is for accounting. The Movant simply argues that the first
through third causes of action fail to comply with Civil Code § 1624, but
Movant does not explicitly address the second cause of action titled “Common
Counts.” Notably, the Opposition does not appear to address this cause of
action.

Tentative Ruling – Second Cause of Action – Common Counts
The Court will hear argument.
Tentative Ruling – Third Cause of Action – Accounting
The Court will hear argument. 
TENTATIVE RULING – Fourth Cause of Action –
Unfair Competition
Defendants filed a
motion to strike as to the fourth cause of action arguing that leave to amend
was not granted to file a fourth cause of action. 
Here, the Defendants are correct to note that at
the previous demurrer hearing leave to amend was not granted as to filing a
fourth cause of action.
In Opposition to the motion to strike, Plaintiff
appears to concede that the fourth cause of action should be stricken.
Plaintiff states, “Plaintiff's opposition is limited to requesting that should
Plaintiff desire to pursue a cause of action for unfair competition, or any
other cause of action that Plaintiff may assert as a viable cause of action,
that the instant motion be granted without prejudice to Plaintiff asserting
such causes of action as may be ascertained during the course of this
litigation following Plaintiff’s n a motion to amend the complaint.”
Based on the fact that Plaintiff did not oppose
Defendants’ motion to strike the fourth cause of action, Defendant’s motion to
strike as to the fourth cause of action is GRANTED without prejudice. 
The Reply to the motion to strike noted that the
Opposition to the motion to strike was untimely. The Court notes that it still
considered the untimely opposition to the motion to strike. The Reply argues
that any other causes of action must be filed now, and not in a motion to amend
the complaint at a later time. The Reply’s argument on this point is
unavailing. If Plaintiff wanted to file a motion for leave to amend, whether or
not leave to amend would be granted would be determined at the resultant hearing.
The Reply’s argument is not before this Court. 
The demurrer to the fourth cause of action is
overruled as moot in light of the ruling on the motion to strike.
The Court considered the motion to strike, the
limited opposition to the motion to strike, and the reply in ruling on the
motion to strike. The Court notes that a reply was not submitted to the
demurrer.
The Court notes that the ruling on the motion to
strike is included within this tentative ruling on the fourth cause of action
because the motion to strike only sought to strike the fourth cause of action
for unfair competition.
 
 
 
 
 