  Case Number:  23TRCV00150    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  P Moving  Parties: Defendant Oates And Jefferson Dental Corporation, Presently Known As  Christopher Oates, D.D.S., Inc. Dba Hermosa Smiles Dentistry (“Defendant”) Responding Party: None as of September 16,  2024                                                Motion for Summary Judgment              The court considered the moving papers  and notice of non-opposition.  RULING             Defendant’s unopposed Motion for  Summary Judgment is GRANTED.  BACKGROUND I.                    PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND On  January 12, 2023, Plaintiff Jalal Pashandi (“Plaintiff”) filed the Complaint t,  alleging one cause of action for Professional Negligence against Hermosa Smiles  Dentistry Dental Group, Business Entity, Fonn Unknown; Pedram Marhabi, D.D.S.,  An Individual; Pedram A. Marhabi, D.D.S., Inc., and  Does 1 through 20 (collectively,  “Defendants”).  According to the  Complaint, Plaintiff alleges that he was a patient of the defendants, and a  recipient of their services before, on, and/or after October 22, 2021. (Complaint  ¶ 7.) Plaintiff alleges that the defendants owed to him, a duty to exercise  care in their services, diagnoses and/or treatment of his dental condition.  (Complaint ¶ 7.) However, said defendants each failed to exercise ordinary care  for their service and/or professions before, on, and/or October 22, 2021, and  that such failure has legally caused serious and grievous injuries to  plaintiff. (Complaint ¶ 7.)  On June 21, 2024, Defendant Oates And  Jefferson Dental Corporation, Presently Known As Christopher Oates, D.D.S.,  Inc. Dba Hermosa Smiles Dentistry (“Defendant”) filed the instant Motion for  Summary Judgment.  On September 11, 2024, Plaintiff Jalal  Pashandi (“Plaintiff”) filed a notice of non-opposition. II.                 FACTUAL BACKGROUND  On January 12, 2023, the Plaintiff filed a  complaint, alleging one cause of action for Professional Negligence against  Defendant Pedram Marhabi, (“Dr. Marhabi”) and the Moving Defendant Hermosa  Smiles Dentistry Dental Group. (UMF No. 1.) The records indicate that the  Plaintiff presented to Defendant Dr. Pedram Marhabi on August 28, 2020 for  placement of a dental implant at the site of tooth number 19 and on October 22,  2021 for the placement of dental implants at the sites of teeth numbers 30 and  31 and remained under Dr. Marhabi’s care, as it related to treatment regarding  the dental implants, until the Plaintiff terminated his treatment in or around  April 2022. (UMF No. 5.)  Defendant Pedram Marhabi, D.D.S. and his  dental corporation, Pedram A. Marhabi, D.D.S., Inc., initially entered into an  independent contractor agreement with Oates And Jefferson Dental Corporation,  presently known as Christopher Oates, D.D.S., Inc., dba Hermosa Smiles  Dentistry Dental Group in or around 2013. The independent contractor agreement  between the parties was renewed on March 1, 2019. This agreement was in effect  at all times throughout the Plaintiff’s treatment with Defendant Marhabi. (UMF  No. 6.) Pursuant to the independent contractor relationship between Dr. Pedram  Marhabi and Hermosa Smiles, Dr. Marhabi was paid based on the services that he  performed. Specifically, he was paid either a daily rate or as a percentage of  his daily production, whichever was greater. Dr. Marahabi was provided with a  1099 for tax purposes. (UMF No. 7.) Dr. Marhabi is a specialist and oral  surgeon. The independent contractor agreement provides, in part, that Dr.  Pedram Marhabi was solely responsible for the professional services that he  rendered. Dr. Marhabi had exclusive control over the treatment he was  performing on patients, including but not limited to his treatment of Jalal  Pashandi, at the Hermosa Smiles office. No other dentist associated with this  Moving Defendant supervised the work of Dr. Marhabi. (UMF No. 9.) Defendant Dr.  Marhabi made his own schedule and determined his own days of work and hours of  work per day. Dr. Marhabi also maintained his own dental office and worked at other  dental offices. (UMF No. 10.)  III.              LEGAL STANDARD  The purpose of a motion for summary judgment “is to provide  courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to  determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to  resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)  25 Cal.4th 826, 843; Code Civ. Proc., § 437c (c).)  “[Section 437c]  requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence  submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and  uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable  issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment  as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7  Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)      “A plaintiff or  cross-complainant has met his or her burden of showing that there is no defense  to a cause of action if that party has proved each element of the cause of  action entitling the party to judgment on the cause of action.” (Code Civ.  Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) Then, “the burden shifts to the defendant or  cross-defendant to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts  exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., §  437c, subd. (p)(1).) To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party  opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster  v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) Courts “liberally construe the  evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts  concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,  Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.   In a  motion for summary judgment, the pleadings serve to “delimit the scope of the issues”  while the affidavits function to “disclose whether there is any triable issue  of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Flores v. City of  San Diego (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 360, 372.)  Facts alleged in affidavits of the party  against whom the motion for summary judgment is based must be accepted as true.  (Blaustein v. Burton (1970) 9 Cal.App.3d 161.)    IV.              DISCUSSION  A.    Positions of the  Parties a.        Moving  Party’s Arguments  Defendant argues  that there are no triable issues of material fact for the sole cause of action  for professional negligence because Defendant Hermosa Smiles Dentistry Dental  Group maintained an independent contractor relationship with Co-Defendant  Pedram Marhabi, D.D.S. at all times during the Plaintiff’s treatment and is  therefore not liable. Defendant provides Christopher Oates, D.D.S’s declaration  and exhibits in support of this motion.  b.       Responding  Party’s Opposition  Plaintiff filed a  Notice of Non-Opposition.  c.        Moving Party’s Reply  None.  B.     Legal Analysis  a.        Professional  Negligence  Defendant  argues that there are no triable issues of material fact for the sole cause of  action for professional negligence because Defendant Hermosa Smiles Dentistry  Dental Group maintained an independent contractor relationship with  Co-Defendant Pedram Marhabi, D.D.S. at all times during the Plaintiff’s  treatment and is therefore not liable.  For  a negligence claim premised on medical malpractice the elements are “(1) a duty  to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of the profession  commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of the duty; (3) a proximate causal  connection between the negligent conduct and the injury; and (4) resulting loss  or damage.” (Chakalis v. Elevator Sols., Inc. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th  1557, 1571.)  Here,  Defendant met its burden showing no triable issue of material fact. In support,  Defendant submits the custodian of records Christopher Oates, D.D.S’s  declaration.  Plaintiff presented to  Defendant Dr. Pedram Marhabi on August 28, 2020, for placement of a dental  implant at the site of tooth number 19 and on October 22, 2021 for the  placement of dental implants at the sites of teeth numbers 30 and 31 and  remained under Dr. Marhabi’s care, as it related to treatment regarding the  dental implants, until the Plaintiff terminated his treatment in or around  April 2022. The only dentist at Hermosa Smiles that performed any dental  implant placement treatment was Dr. Marhabi. (Oates Decl. ¶ 3.) Pedram Marhabi,  D.D.S., and his dental corporation, Pedram A. Marhabi, D.D.S., Inc., initially  entered into an independent contractor agreement with Oates And Jefferson  Dental Corporation dba Hermosa Smiles Dentistry Dental Group in or around 2013.  On or around March 1, 2019, the independent contractor agreement between Hermosa  Smiles Dentistry and Dr. Marahabi was renewed. The independent contractor  agreement in part provides that Dr. Pedram Marahabi was solely responsible for  the professional services that he rendered. (Oates Decl. ¶ 4; Ex. B.) Pursuant  to the independent contractor relationship between Dr. Pedram Marhabi and  Hermosa Smiles, Dr. Marhabi was paid based on the services that he performed.  Specifically, he was paid based on the services that he performed.  Specifically, he was paid either a daily rate or as a percentage of his daily  production, whichever was greater. Dr. Marhabi was provided with a 1099 for tax  purposes. Dr. Marhabi would be responsible for his own payment of taxes and  professional liability insurance; provide his own dental instruments; and that  “it is the intention of the parties hereto, that Contractor is an independent  contractor and that neither Contractor nor Specialist is an employee, agent,  joint venturer, or partner of Owner for any purpose whatsoever.” (Oates Decl.  ¶5; Ex. B—IC Agreement ¶3.)  Therefore,  Defendant Hermosa Smiles Dentistry Dental Group has established an independent  contractor relationship with Co-Defendant Pedram Marhabi, D.D.S. at all times  during the Plaintiff’s treatment. Thus, the Defendant has met its burden. The  burden shifts to Plaintiff. However, Plaintiff filed a notice of  non-opposition.  Accordingly,  the Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED as to the sole cause of action for  professional negligence.    V. CONCLUSION  Therefore, the DEFENDANT’S  NOTICE OF MOTION AND MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT filed by Defendant Oates And  Jefferson Dental Corporation, Presently Known As Christopher Oates, D.D.S.,  Inc. Dba Hermosa Smiles Dentistry on 06/21/24 is GRANTED.