  Case Number:  19SMCV00823    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


May 7, 2024




CASE NUMBER


19SMCV00823




MOTIONS


Motions to be Relieved as Counsel




MOVING PARTY


Duncan J. McCreary




OPPOSING PARTY


(none)



 
MOTIONS
 
            Duncan J. McCreary of Reeder
McCreary, LLP, counsel for Defendants Hooman Nissani, HTL Properties LLC, and
Hooman Automotive Inc. (“Counsel”) moves to be relived as counsel regarding all
three Defendants, citing a conflict of interest with the clients.  The motions are unopposed.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 284 provides “[t]he attorney in an
action or special proceeding may be changed at any time before or after
judgment or final determination as follows: 1. Upon the consent of both client
and attorney, filed with the clerk, or entered in the minutes; 2. Upon the
order of the court, upon the application of either client or attorney, after
notice from one to the other.”
 
Procedural Requirements
 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, requires:
 
(1) the motion must be made on
form MC-051; (subd. (a)); 
 
(2) it must be accompanied by
a declaration on form MC-052 stating why the motion is brought under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284(2) instead of a consent brought under section
284(1); (subd. (c));
 
(3) a proposed order on form
MC-053 must be lodged with the court, specifying all hearing dates scheduled in
the action or proceeding, including the date of trial, if known; (subd. (e));
and 
 
(4) The documents must be
served on the client and on all parties that have appeared in the case. (subd.
(d).)
 
If
the notice is served by mail or electronic service, it must be accompanied by a
declaration indicating that the address served is the current address, or in
the case of service by mail, that it was served on the last known address and a
more current address could not be located after reasonable efforts within 30
days before filing the motion.  (Ibid.)  The court may delay the effective date of the
order relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on
the client has been filed with the court.” 
(Ibid.)  
 
Substantive Requirements
 
Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16(a) outlines the reasons a
lawyer must withdraw from representation of a client:
 
(1)   the
client is bringing an action, conducting a defense, asserting a position in
litigation, or taking an appeal, without probable cause and for the purpose of
harassing or maliciously injuring any person;
 
(2)   the
representation will result in violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct or
the State Bar Act;
 
(3)   the
lawyer’s mental or physical condition renders it unreasonably difficult to
carry out the representation effectively; or
 
(4)   the
client discharges the lawyer.
 
Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16(b) outlines the reasons a
lawyer may withdraw from representation of a client:
 
(1)   the
client insists upon presenting a claim or defense in litigation, or asserting a
position or making a demand in a non-litigation matter, that is not warranted
under existing law and cannot be supported by good faith argument for an
extension, modification, or reversal of existing law;
 
(2)   the
client either seeks to pursue a criminal or fraudulent course of conduct or has
used the lawyer’s services to advance a course of conduct that the lawyer
reasonably believes was a crime or fraud;
 
(3)   the
client insists that the lawyer pursue a course of conduct that is criminal or
fraudulent;
 
(4)   the
client by other conduct renders it unreasonably difficult for the lawyer to
carry out the representation effectively;
 
(5)   the
client breaches a material term of an agreement with, or obligation, to the
lawyer relating to the representation, and the lawyer has given the client a
reasonable warning after the breach that the lawyer will withdraw unless the
client fulfills the agreement or performs the obligation;
 
(6)   the
client knowingly and freely assents to termination of the representation;
 
(7)   the
inability to work with co-counsel indicates that the best interests of the
client likely will be served by withdrawal;
 
(8)   the
lawyer’s mental or physical condition renders it difficult for the lawyer to
carry out the representation effectively;
 
(9)   a
continuation of the representation is likely to result in a violation of these
rules or the State Bar Act; or
 
(10)       the
lawyer believes in good faith in a proceeding pending before a tribunal that
the tribunal will find the existence of other good cause for withdrawal.
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Counsel has filed forms MC-051,
MC-052, and MC-053, plus an additional form MC-052 declaration by Christopher
S. Reeder, the managing partner of Reeder McCreary, LLP, for each of the three
Defendants.  The attorney declarations
(MC-052) indicate that the motions were filed instead of filing consents
because:
 
A conversation occurred late in the evening on
March 5, 2024 between Hooman Michael Nissani and myself which resulted in a
serious conflict of interest between Mr. Nissani and myself, and Reeder
McCreary, LLP. The conflict is so serious that no additional work can ethically
be performed by either myself and/or Reeder McCreary, LLP for Hooman Michael
Nissani and any of his related entities. Duncan McCreary and Reeder McCreary,
LLP must ethically cease all representation of Hooman Michael Nissani and any of
his related entities immediately due to the serious nature of the conflict. 
 
(MC-052
at ¶ 2.)  As such, the Court finds that
the motion complies with the Rules of Professional Conduct, rules 1.16(a)(2)
and (b)(9).)  
 
            The proofs of service indicate each
of the required forms were electronically served on the clients and on counsel
of record for Plaintiff Kunzik and Sara Construction Inc.  Therefore, the Court finds motions are both
procedurally and substantively proper.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court grants the three Motions to be Relieved as
Counsel.  Counsel must serve the signed
orders (form MC-053), which shall include information about all future hearings
and proceedings noticed by any party, or ordered by the Court, on Defendants and
all other parties who have appeared in the action, within 10 days of the date
of this Order, and file proofs of service of such.  
 
Counsel will remain the attorney of record for Defendants until
Counsel files the requisite proofs of service. 
(See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(e).)  
 
            
 
 
DATED:  May 7, 2024                                               ___________________________
                                                                              Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court
 