 Case Number:  23SMCV03707    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


May
  7, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV03707




MOTION


Motion
  for Preliminary Injunction




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Joseph Robert Giannini




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant
  Gold’s Gym California, LLC



 
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises over a dispute concerning an increase in membership
fees Defendant Gold’s Gym California, LLC (“Defendant”) began charging
Plaintiff Joseph Robert Giannini (“Plaintiff”) to access the Gold’s Gym in
Venice, California.  
 
            On August 10, 2023, Plaintiff filed
the original complaint in this action. 
Four days later, on August 14, 2023, Plaintiff voluntarily filed the
first amended complaint, alleging three causes of action for (1) breach of
Business & Professions Code section 17200; (2) breach of the Unruh Act; and
(3) bad faith denial of the existence of a contract against Defendant and
against Gold’s Gym Club Holding, LLC.  
 
            On October 12, 2023, the Court
denied Plaintiff’s first Motion for Preliminary Injunction.  (Minute Order, October 12, 2023.)   Further, at Plaintiff’s request, the Court
dismissed Gold’s Gym Club Holding, LLC on November 9, 2023.
 
            On December 14, 2023, the Court
granted Defendant’s motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the first and
third causes of action, and granted Plaintiff leave to amend the first cause of
action only on or before January 11, 2024. 
(Minute Order, December 14, 2023.)
 
            On January 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed
a second amended complaint, adding additional defendants and causes of action,
which the Court struck because it was untimely, exceeded the scope of the leave
granted in connection with the motion for judgment on the pleadings, and was
not otherwise filed with leave of the Court or pursuant to stipulation.  (Minute Order, April 17, 2024.)
            
            On February 21, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a second Motion for Preliminary injunction, scheduled for hearing on
March 18.  The Court issued its tentative
ruling on March 15, tentatively denying Plaintiff’s motion.  On March 18, the hearing was continued to
April 17.  On March 26, Plaintiff filed a
Notice that he was taking the Motion for Preliminary Injunction off calendar.
 
            Plaintiff now files his third Motion
for Preliminary Injunction.  The
remaining Defendant Gold’s Gym California, LLC opposes the motion.  Plaintiff has filed an untimely reply.
 
UNTIMELY
REPLY & REQUEST FOR ORAL TESTIMONY
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section 1005
provides that reply briefs shall be filed and served “at least five court days
before the hearing.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
1005, subd. (b).)  Five court days before
the May 7 hearing date is April 30, however Plaintiff did not file a reply
brief until May 2.  The Court has
discretion whether to consider late filed papers.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1300(d).)
 
            Plaintiff’s untimely “reply” brief
is actually a request to introduce oral testimony at the hearing regarding his
PTSD to elaborate on the harm he is claiming. 
Plaintiff indicates the oral testimony is “based on the verified
complaint allegations, declarations, and exhibits submitted.”  
 
            As a threshold matter, the operative
complaint in this matter, the first amended complaint, is not a verified
complaint.  The second amended complaint,
which the Court struck on April 17, 2024, for not being drawn in conformance
with the Court’s December 14, 2023 Order did contain a verification, but that
complaint is not operative.
 
            In any event, as incorporated into
the analysis below, the Court acknowledges Plaintiff’s assertion that he relies
on the Venice location gym equipment to manage his PTSD; further oral testimony
in this regard is not necessary or appropriate at this juncture.  Therefore, Plaintiff’s request to introduce
oral testimony at the hearing is denied. 
Plaintiff may present argument at the hearing, but may not present oral
evidence.
 
LEGAL
STANDARDS
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 527, subdivision (a), “[a]
preliminary injunction may be granted at any time before judgment upon a
verified complaint, or upon affidavits if the complaint in the one case, or the
affidavits in the other, show satisfactorily that sufficient grounds exist therefor.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 527, subd. (a).)  “The purpose of a preliminary
injunction is to preserve the status quo pending final resolution upon a
trial.”  (Grothe v. Cortlandt Corp. (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th
1313, 1316.)  The status quo has been defined to mean the last actual
peaceable, uncontested status which preceded the pending controversy. (14859
Moorpark Homeowner’s Assn. v. VRT Corp. (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1396. 1402.)  Preliminary injunctive relief requires the use
of competent evidence to create a sufficient factual showing on the grounds for
relief. (See, e.g., ReadyLink Healthcare
v. Cotton (2005) 126
Cal.App.4th 1006, 1016; Ancora-Citronelle
Corp. v. Green (1974) 41
Cal.App.3d 146, 150.) 
 
The trial court considers two factors in determining whether to issue
a preliminary injunction: (1) the likelihood the plaintiff will prevail on the
merits of its case at trial, and (2) the interim harm the plaintiff is likely
to sustain if the injunction is denied as compared to the harm the defendant is
likely to suffer if the court grants a preliminary injunction.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 526(a); Husain v.
McDonald’s Corp. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 860, 866-67.)  The balancing of harm between the parties
“involves consideration of such things as the inadequacy of other remedies, the
degree of irreparable harm, and the necessity of preserving the status quo.” (Husain,
supra, 205 Cal.App.4th at p. 867.)  
 
“The decision to grant a preliminary injunction rests in the sound
discretion of the trial court ... before the trial court can exercise its
discretion the applicant must make a prima facie showing of
entitlement to injunctive relief.  The applicant must demonstrate a real
threat of immediate and irreparable injury.”  (Triple A Machine Shop,
Inc. v. State of Cal. (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 131,
138.)  “[A]n injunction is an unusual or extraordinary equitable
remedy which will not be granted if the remedy at law (usually damages) will
adequately compensate the injured plaintiff,” and the party seeking injunctive
relief bears the burden to prove its absence.  (Department of Fish
& Game v. Anderson-Cottonwood Irrigation Dist. (1992) 8
Cal.App.4th 1554, 1564-1565.)   
 
ANALYSIS
 
            Plaintiff argues a preliminary
injunction is nonetheless warranted, despite two prior rulings denying
Plaintiff’s request because the Court in its October 12, 2023 Minute Order
“ruled plaintiff had failed in his proof” of providing evidence of how long it
took him to commute to the other gym locations and evidence that the equipment
at the Venice location is not available elsewhere, and Plaintiff believes he
has now supplied the requisite proof.  In
support of the motion, Plaintiff has provided eight unauthenticated exhibits
and the Declaration of Alex Giannini, indicating that he and other members of
the Gold’s Gym in Venice miss seeing Plaintiff at the gym.
 
            Defendant opposes the motion,
arguing Plaintiff’s third motion for preliminary injunction is effectively an
untimely motion for reconsideration of the Court’s October 12 order, and that a
preliminary injunction is still not warranted because Plaintiff has not
identified any nonpecuniary harm or demonstrated he is likely to prevail on the
merits.
 
            UNTIMELY MOTION FOR
RECONSIDERATION
 
            The Court agrees that Plaintiff’s
motion substantively challenges and responds to the Court’s October 12 order,
and is therefore effectively an untimely motion for reconsideration.
 
When an application for an order has been made to
a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted
conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days
after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based
upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the
same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify,
amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state
by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what
order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances,
or law are claimed to be shown.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (a).)
 
This section specifies the court's jurisdiction
with regard to applications for reconsideration of its orders and renewals of
previous motions, and applies to all applications to reconsider any order of a
judge or court, or for the renewal of a previous motion, whether the order
deciding the previous matter or motion is interim or final. No application to
reconsider any order or for the renewal of a previous motion may be considered
by any judge or court unless made according to this section.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (e).)  
 
            Thus, although Plaintiff has styled
the motion as a Motion for Preliminary Injunction, it seeks the same relief as
a motion for reconsideration, and specifically challenges aspects of the
Court’s October 12 order.  As such, the
Court’s jurisdiction to grant Plaintiff the requested relief is limited by Section
1008.  Pursuant to that section,
Plaintiff was required to move for reconsideration within ten days of the
Court’s October 12 order.  But Plaintiff
did not file his second Motion for Preliminary Injunction (which he later
voluntarily withdrew) until February 21, and Plaintiff did not file the instant
motion until April 8.
 
            As such, the Court lacks
jurisdiction to grant Plaintiff’s request.
 
            NONPECUNIARY HARM
 
In any event, Plaintiff has still not demonstrated any nonpecuniary
harm.  
 
Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 526, an injunction may be granted “[w]hen it
appears by the complaint or affidavits that the commission or continuance of
some act during the litigation would produce waste, or great or irreparable
injury, to a party to the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 526, subd. (a)(2).)  The threat of irreparable harm must be
imminent as opposed to a mere possibility of harm sometime in the future.  “An injunction cannot issue in a vacuum based
on the proponents’ fears about something that may happen in the future.  It must be supported by actual evidence that
there is a realistic prospect that the party enjoined intends to engage in the
prohibited activity.”  (Korean
Philadelphia Presbyterian Church v. California Presbytery (2000) 77
Cal.App.4th 1069, 1084.)  Plaintiffs need
not wait until they have suffered actual harm before applying for an
injunction, however, they may seek injunctive relief against threatened
infringement of their rights.  (Maria
P. v. Riles (1987) 43 Cal.3d 1281, 1292.) 

 
Moreover,
an injunction may be granted only “[w]hen pecuniary compensation would not
afford adequate relief.”  (Code Civ.
Proc. § 526, subd. (a)(4).)  “Specific
performance of a contract will not be compelled when an adequate remedy exists
at law, and if monetary damages afford adequate relief and are not extremely
difficult to ascertain, an injunction cannot be granted.”  (Thayer Plymouth Center, Inc. v. Chrysler
Motors Corp. (1967) 255 Cal.App.2d 300, 306.)
 
            As the Court explained in its
October 12 order: 
 
Plaintiff is still able to access the unique gym
equipment he contends is only available in the Gold’s Gym Venice location to do
his preventative maintenance exercises to “combat [the] weakness” in his lower
back, so long as he pays $100 per month in dues. This dispute therefore centers
around the amount of Plaintiff’s monthly dues. But easily ascertainable
pecuniary damages alone, like those at issue here, cannot substantiate a
preliminary injunction.
 
(Minute
Order, October 12, 2023.)  The Court
further explained that Plaintiff had not established his two alleged
nonpecuniary harms – that his lower back weakness requires exercising on a
machine only available at the Venice gym location, and that using another
nearby Gold’s Gym location would triple his commute time – because Plaintiff’s
evidence lacked foundation.  (Ibid.)
 
            Plaintiff now argues that there are
additional benefits of using the unique Venice location gym equipment that
Plaintiff has lost, including managing his PTSD.  However, as the Court previously noted,
“Plaintiff is still able to access the unique gym equipment” at the Venice
location; he must simply pay higher membership fees, which will be awarded back
to Plaintiff, should Plaintiff prevail in this lawsuit.  As such, monetary damages will afford
Plaintiff adequate relief.[1]  
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Because the Court lacks jurisdiction
to grant Plaintiff’s motion, which is effectively an untimely motion for
reconsideration of the Court’s October 12 order, and because Plaintiff has not
identified any nonpecuniary harm, Plaintiff’s third Motion for Preliminary
Injunction is denied.  
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such.
 
 
DATED:  May 7, 2024                                                           ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 


