..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: [Not specified]
Plaintiff's Name: Cross-Complainant
Defendant's Name: Cross-Defendant
People-Names: None
Company-Names: None
Places: California
Dates: None
Events: Motion to file, Hearing, Court's tentative ruling
Money: None
Intentions: To hear the Motion in the Court's discretion
Facts: Cross-Defendant filed Motion more than 60 days after cross-complaint was served, did not ask for leave to file, and Cross-Complainant did not object
Disputes: Cross-Defendant's claim that his communications constitute protected activity, Cross-Complainant's argument that Cross-Defendant was not communicating about unlawful acts
Acts: Cross-Defendant filed Motion, Cross-Complainant filed Opposition and Supplemental Opposition, Cross-Defendant filed Supplemental Reply
Agreements: None
Laws:
  - California codes (referenced but not specified)
  - Navellier, 29 Cal.4th 82
  - DaimlerChrysler Motors Co. v. Lew Williams, Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 344
Case Citations: None
Statutes: None
Roles:
  - Cross-Defendant: filed Motion
  - Cross-Complainant: filed Opposition and Supplemental Opposition
  - Court: heard Motion, allowed supplementals, made tentative ruling
Significant Statements:
  - The Court will hear the Motion in its discretion
  - The Court did not find Cross-Complainant's Supplemental Opposition persuasive
  - The Court will not address Cross-Defendant's argument on the point of contractual waiver further
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge has tentatively ruled that Cross-Defendant's motion to file will be heard despite being filed more than 60 days after the cross-complaint was served. The judge notes that Cross-Defendant did not request permission to file the motion late and Cross-Complainant did not object. The judge has also allowed Cross-Complainant to supplement its opposition and Cross-Defendant to file a supplemental reply. After considering the supplemental opposition, the judge has found it unpersuasive. The judge has also declined to address Cross-Defendant's argument regarding contractual waiver.
