  Case Number:  23VECV03433    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  O  
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 



MICHAEL
  MALONE, an individual,
                    
Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
SRAX, INC., a
  California Corporation,
                    
Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.: 23VECV03433
 
ORDER
  GRANTING IN PART CROSS-DEFENDANT’S SPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKE STRATEGIC LAWSUIT
  AGAINST PUBLIC PARTICIPATION PURSUANT TO CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE § 425.16
 
 




SRAX, INC., a
  California Corporation,
                    
Cross-Complainant,
          vs.
 
MICHAEL MALONE,
  an individual,
                    
Cross-Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


    
  
 
 



 
I.        INTRODUCTION
          This
case arises out of Plaintiff Michael Malone’s (“Plaintiff” or “Cross-Defendant”)
previous employment as the Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”) of Defendant SRAX,
Inc., a California corporation (“Defendant” or “Cross-Complainant”). On August
7, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendant, alleging breach of
contract, multiple violations of Labor Code § 200, et seq., and violation of
Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200, et seq. [1]
Plaintiff alleges he
 was
terminated without cause on or about April 2023, and that, to date, Plaintiff
has not been paid his remaining owed salary, benefits, or personally incurred
business expenses. (See Complaint, ¶¶ 7-17.)          
          Defendant
filed a Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff on May 6, 2024, alleging Plaintiff
failed to perform his duties as CFO and breached his confidentiality agreement,
among other claims. (See Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 21-22, 26-32.)
          Cross-Defendant
now seeks to strike Cross-Complainant’s Cross-Complaint pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure § 425.16. 
II.      PROCEDURAL
HISTORY
On August 7,
2023, Plaintiff filed his Complaint alleging (1) Breach of Contract; (2)
Violation of Labor Code §§ 201 and 202; (3) Violation of Labor Code §§ 2800 and
2802; (4) Violation of Labor Code § 204; (5) Violation of Labor Code § 226(A),
and (6) Violation of Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200, et seq. 
On October 9,
2023, Defendant filed its Answer and Cross-Complaint. The Court rejected the
filing of the Cross-Complaint due to Defendant’s incorrect completion of the e-filing
form. Defendant filed the Cross-Complaint correctly on October 25, 2023. 
On November
6, 2023, Plaintiff filed his Answer to the Cross-Complaint but withdrew his Answer
on November 13, 2023. 
On May 1,
2024, this Court granted Defendant leave to file a Cross-Complaint.  
On May 6,
2024, Cross-Complainant filed a Cross-Complaint against Cross-Defendant,
alleging (1) Breach of Contract (Proprietary Information, Invention Assignment,
and Confidentiality Agreement); (2) Breach of Contract (Employment Agreement);
(3) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; and (4) Misappropriation of Trade Secrets.
On August 13,
2024, Cross-Defendant filed the instant Special Motion to Strike Strategic
Lawsuit Against Public Participation Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §
425.16 (“Motion”).[2]
On September
10, 2024, Cross-Complainant filed its Opposition. 
On September
16, 2024, Cross-Defendant filed his Reply.   
On October 4,
2024, Cross-Complainant filed its Supplemental Opposition.
On October
11, 2024, Cross-Defendant filed his Supplemental Reply. 
III.     LEGAL
STANDARD
“A cause of action against a person
arising from any act of that person in furtherance of the person’s right of
petition or free speech under the United States Constitution or the California
Constitution in connection with a public issue shall be subject to a special
motion to strike, unless the court determines that the plaintiff has
established that there is a probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the
claim.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16 (b)(1); see also Church of Scientology v.
Wollersheim (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 628, 644-645 (observing the legislature
enacted Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16 to protect citizens exercising constitutional
rights of petition and free speech from meritless lawsuits) (overruled in other
part by Equilon Enters. v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53,
68, fn. 5).)
The trial court applies a burden
shifting analysis when considering a special motion to strike brought under
section 425.16. (See Soukup v. Law Offices of Herbert Hafif (2006) 39
Cal.4th 260, 278.) First, the defense must carry its burden of making a
threshold showing that a challenged cause of action arises from “any act of
that person in furtherance of the person's right of petition or free speech
under the [federal or state constitution] with a public issue.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 425.16 (b)(1); see also Soukup, 39 Cal.4th at 278.) Acts which
are protected under section 425.16 include “any written or oral statement or
writing made before a … judicial proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16 (e)(1);
see also Briggs v. Eden Council for Hope & Opportunity (1999) 19
Cal.4th 1106, 1116 (anti-SLAPP statute protects all petition-related activity
before a governmental body, whether the statements involve a public issue or
not). Second, only after the defendant has met its initial burden does the
burden shift to the plaintiff to demonstrate a probability of prevailing on the
merits of the pleading or on part of the pleading at issue. (See Equilon,
29 Cal.4th at 67.)   
A plaintiff opposing a special motion
to strike has the burden to “state [] and substantiate [] a legally sufficient claim.”
(Navellier v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 88 & 93.) “Put another
way, the plaintiff must demonstrate that the complaint is both legally
sufficient and supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of facts to
sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by the plaintiff is
credited.” (Navellier, 20 Cal.4th at 88–89 (cleaned up).) To that
end, the plaintiff must present competent evidence, “that would be admissible
at trial.” (HMS Capital, Inc. v. Lawyers Title Co. (2004) 118
Cal.App.4th 204, 212.) “[D]eclarations may not be based upon ‘information and
belief’” and documents submitted without the proper foundation will not be
considered. (Id. (citation omitted).)  The complaint, even if
verified, is insufficient to carry the plaintiff's shifted burden. (See Roberts
v. Los Angeles County Bar Assn. (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 604, 614; see Karnazes
v. Ares (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 344, 354 (stating “pleadings do not
constitute evidence”).)
IV.     ANALYSIS
A.            
Cross-Defendant Meets Its Burden as to the First Prong.
“A cause of action is
subject to a special motion to strike if the defendant shows that the cause of
action arises from an act in furtherance of the Defendants’ constitutional
right of petition or free speech in connection with a public issue and the
plaintiff fails to demonstrate a probability of prevailing on the claim.” (Digerati
Holdings, LLC v. Young Money Entertainment, LLC (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 873,
883 (citations omitted).)  
“An ‘act in furtherance
of a person’s right of petition or free speech under the United States or
California Constitution in connection with a public issue’ is defined by
statute to include ‘(1) any written or oral statement or writing made before a
legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official
proceeding authorized by law, (2) any written or oral statement or writing made
in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a legislative,
executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding authorized by
law, (3) any written or oral statement or writing made in a place open to the
public or a public forum in connection with an issue of public interest, or (4)
any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of
petition or the constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public
issue or an issue of public interest.’ … If the defendant shows that the
cause of action arises from a statement described in clause (1) or (2) of
section 425.16, subdivision (e), the defendant is not required to separately
demonstrate that the statement was made in connection with a ‘public issue.’” (Id.
(citations omitted).) 
Cross-Defendant seeks to
strike Cross-Complainant’s entire Cross-Complaint pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure § 425.16(e)(4). (See Motion, pg. 1.) Cross-Defendant argues all
four of Cross-Complainant’s causes of action concern Cross-Defendant’s “alleged
sharing of ‘Proprietary and Confidential Information.’” (Motion, pg. 2.) In an
attached declaration, Cross-Defendant does not deny he shared information with others,
but asserts such communications were not privileged. (See Declaration of
Michael Malone filed August 13, 2024 (“Malone Decl.”), ¶¶ 4-5.) Cross-Defendant
declares he only communicated about Cross-Complainant’s acts he believed to be
unlawful, including, but not limited to: Cross-Complainant’s misleading
disclosures related to revenue and the valuation of subsidiaries;
Cross-Complainant’s CEO Chris Miglino’s improper use of Cross-Complainant’s
stock as collateral for a loan on a SoFi Stadium suite; and Cross-Complainant’s
failure to properly disclose an increase in its security holdings. (See id.)

Cross-Defendant argues Code
of Civil Procedure § 425.16(e)(4) applies to his conduct, the communication of
Cross-Complainant’s allegedly unlawful acts, as subsection (e)(4) is
substantially broader than the other subsections, encompassing “private
activity and communications that concern an issue of public interest.” (Motion,
pg. 5 (citations omitted).) Such communications, in turn, concern an issue of
public interest because they are specifically prohibited by Government Code §
12964.5, which prohibits an employer, as a condition of employment or continued
employment, from requiring an employee to sign a nondisclosure agreement or
other document “‘to the extent it has the purpose or effect of denying the
employee the right to disclose information about unlawful acts in the workplace.’”
(Motion, pg. 5, quoting Gov. Code § 12964.5(a)(1)(B)(i).) 
In sum, Cross-Defendant
argues “[t]he entire Cross-complaint is grounded on the erroneous premise that
SRAX can prevent Malone from disclosing what he believes are unlawful acts.
Since Gov’t Code § 12964.5 makes it clear that these are protected activities,
the first prong is met.” (Motion, pg. 6.)
In opposition,
Cross-Complainant focuses exclusively on Cross-Defendant’s Government Code § 12964.5
argument, stating Cross-Defendant “cannot provide any legal support for his
theory that a phrase in a section of the California statutes governing
workplace harassment and discrimination somehow governs Malone’s alleged ‘communications’
about his former employer which have nothing to do with harassment or
discrimination.” (Opposition, pg. 4.) 
In reply,
Cross-Defendant engages in a lengthy discussion of statutory interpretation,
comparing Gov. Code § 12964.5 to Lab. Code § 1102.5, and finally arriving at
his ultimate point—that “[t]he public certainly has an interest in what the
legislature has twice specifically declared is ‘public policy’ in this statute,
and it is beyond reasonable debate that the public has an interest in allowing
the discussion or disclosure of information about unlawful acts in the
workplace.” (Reply, pg. 6.)
Finally, in supplemental
opposition, Cross-Complainant argues it “denies Malone’s allegations that it
participated in any illegal conduct” and that its “causes of action arise from
communications by Malone to an investor about matters that are not publicly
known, and which do not constitute violations of law.” (Supplemental
Opposition, pg. 2.)[3]
In supplemental reply, Cross-Defendant argues Cross-Complainant “doesn’t even
attempt to address FilmOn….[and] merely claims, without citation to
legal authority or fact, that Malone’s declaration is mostly ‘misstatements of
fact,’ and not ‘violations of any laws or regulations.’ (Supp. Opp., 3:11-12.)
That’s just not enough.” (Supplemental Reply, pg. 3.)
The Court agrees. As a
preliminary matter, the Court does not find either Cross-Defendant or Cross-Complainant’s
argument (contained in their Motion and Opposition, respectively) on whether
the communications here are covered by Government Code § 12964.5 to be
particularly compelling or relevant. Cross-Defendant is asking this Court to determine
(1) his communications are protected under Gov. Code § 12964.5; (2) it is
therefore “public policy” to protect such communications; and, as a result, (3)
his communications concern an issue of public interest within the meaning of
Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16(e)(4). The Court declines to make such leaps in its section
425.16 analysis.
          Instead, the
Court will first analyze whether Cross-Defendant has met his burden in proving
all four causes of action in the Cross-Complaint are based on what he argues is
protected activity—his communications. The Court finds he has not. While the
Court agrees the basis for Cross-Complainant’s first, third, and fourth causes
of action are Cross-Defendant’s communications, the basis for the second cause
of action is both Cross-Defendant’s communications and his
alleged failure to adequately perform his duties as CFO. (See Cross-Complaint,
¶¶ 40-46.) Cross-Defendant does not address the latter basis at all, much less
whether this basis also constitutes protected activity. (See
generally Motion.) Cross-Defendant bears “the burden of showing that each
allegation supporting [Cross-Complainant’s] claim of recovery is one that rests
on protected activity…to the extent any acts are unprotected, the claims based
on those acts will survive.” (Bonni v. St. Joseph Health System (2021)
11 Cal.5th 995, 1012.) The Court will thus only analyze the claims that
Cross-Defendant claims are protected—his communications—and will not strike or
consider striking Cross-Complainant’s allegations concerning Cross-Defendant’s
actions as CFO. 
          The Court next
addresses whether Cross-Defendant’s communications constitute protected
activity. “In making its determination, the court shall consider the pleadings,
and supporting and opposing affidavits stating the facts upon which the
liability or defense is based.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16(b)(2).) Cross-Complainant
alleges Cross-Defendant: (1) likely disclosed non-public information about Cross-Complainant
to an unnamed investor; and (2) Cross-Defendant and/or the unnamed investor
disclosed the non-public information to a potential customer of
Cross-Complainant. (See Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 28, 30.) Cross-Defendant doesn’t
refute these allegations. Instead he provides context: the communications regarded
things Cross-Defendant believes were “unlawful act[s] in the workplace.” (Malone
Decl., ¶ 5.)
          Code of Civil
Procedure § 425.16(e)(4) has no “public forum” requirement and is substantially
broader, encompassing private activity and communications, such as
Cross-Defendant’s communications here with an investor and potential customer,
so long as they concern an issue of public interest. (See Briggs, 19
Cal.4th at 1116.)
          The heart of
this Court’s inquiry, then, is whether such communications concern an issue of
public interest. “The inquiry under the catchall provision instead calls for a
two-part analysis rooted in the statute’s purpose and internal logic. First, we
ask what “public issue or … issue of public interest” the speech in question
implicates—a question we answer by looking to the content of the speech. ([Code
Civ. Proc.] § 425.16, subd. (e)(4).) Second, we ask what functional
relationship exists between the speech and the public conversation about some
matter of public interest. It is at the latter stage that context proves
useful.” (FilmOn.com Inc. v. DoubleVerify Inc. (2019) 7 Cal.5th 133,
149–150 (“FilmOn”).) 
          “FilmOn’s
first step asks what issue or issues the challenged activity may reasonably be
understood to implicate. On that question, the movant’s beliefs, motivations,
or characterizations may be relevant and, if objectively reasonable, will
inform the analysis. But they are not themselves dispositive and, if not
objectively reasonable, will not carry weight. If a reasonable inference can be
drawn that the challenged activity implicates a public issue then the analysis
proceeds to FilmOn's second step.” (Geiser v. Kuhns (2022) 13
Cal.5th 1238, 1254.)
          Here, the
Court finds Cross-Defendant’s communications implicate an issue of public
interest. Cross-Defendant declares they concern the potentially unlawful
operation of “a public…financial technology company that unlocks data and
insights for publicly traded companies…[allowing companies to]…track their
investors’ behaviors and trends and use those insights to engage current and
potential investors across marketing channels.” (Complaint, ¶ 8.) “[A] publicly
traded company with many thousands of investors is of public interest because
its successes or failures will affect not only individual investors, but in the
case of large companies, potentially market sectors or the markets as a whole.”
(Sugarman v. Benett (2021) 73 Cal.App.5th 165, 177 (citations omitted).)
The Court therefore finds it is reasonable to infer Cross-Defendant’s
communications concerning Cross-Complainant’s failures/unlawful acts implicate
an issue of public interest. 
          The Court then
turns to FilmOn’s second step—what functional relationship exists
between the communications and the public conversation about some matter of
public interest? “[T]he inquiry of whether a statement contributes to the
public debate is one a court can hardly undertake without incorporating
considerations of context—including audience, speaker, and purpose.” (FilmOn,
7 Cal.5th at 151–152.) The Court finds the context surrounding Cross-Defendant’s
communications furthered the discourse that makes the issue one of public
interest—that is, they furthered the discourse surrounding Cross-Complainant’s
allegedly unlawful acts, which would naturally be of great interest to
investors and potential customers alike. The communications were to an investor
and potential customer. The purpose, according to Cross-Defendant, was to
communicate about Cross-Complanaint’s unlawful acts. Finally, the result was to
allegedly cause Cross-Complainant “significant financial and reputational
damages.” (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 32.)
The Court thus finds
Cross-Defendant has met his burden and shown Cross-Complainant’s first, second
(as discussed above), third, and fourth causes of action arose from “any act of
that person in furtherance of the person’s right of petition or free speech
under the United States Constitution or the California Constitution in
connection with a public issue.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16(b)(1).)[4] 
          The burden
thus shifts to Cross-Complainant to demonstrate a probability of prevailing on
the merits. 
B.            
Cross-Complainant Does Not Demonstrate a Probability of
Prevailing on the Merits.
“To establish a
probability of prevailing, the plaintiff must demonstrate that the complaint is
both legally sufficient and supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of
facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by the
plaintiff is credited. For purposes of this inquiry, the trial court
considers the pleadings and evidentiary submissions of both the plaintiff and
the defendant though the court does not weigh the credibility
or comparative probative strength of competing evidence, it should grant the
motion if, as a matter of law, the defendant’s evidence supporting the motion
defeats the plaintiff’s attempt to establish evidentiary support for the claim.
(Soukup, 39 Cal.4th at 291 (cleaned
up, emphasis in original).) As with summary judgment motions, a court ruling on
an anti-SLAPP motion must consider both the “supporting and opposing
affidavits” (Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16(b)(2)). Gaps in plaintiff's showing of a
“probability of success on the merits” may be filled by defendant’s evidence. (Salma
v. Capon (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 1275, 1289.)
Cross-Complainant must therefore
establish a probability of prevailing on its first two causes of action for
breach of contract (but not the second cause of action insofar as it relates to
Cross-Defendant’s alleged failure to adequately perform his duties as CFO,
discussed above), its third cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty, and its
fourth cause of action for misappropriation of trade secrets. (See Cross-Complaint.)

In his Motion,
Cross-Defendant argues the only non-public information he shared related to
specific items he had reasonable cause to believe were unlawful as that term is
used in Gov. Code § 12964.5. (See Motion, pg. 7.) In its Opposition,
Cross-Complainant does not submit any additional evidence or make any
additional argument besides its argument concerning Government Code § 12964.5.
(See Opposition.) In its Supplemental Opposition, however,
Cross-Complainant submits the Declaration of its CEO Chris Miglino’s
(“Miglino”) as evidence, which Cross-Complainant argues proves
Cross-Defendant’s communications constitute clear violations of his Employment
Agreement and Proprietary Information Agreement. (See Supplemental
Opposition, pg. 6; Declaration of Chris Miglino filed October 4, 2024 (“Miglino
Decl.”).) 
In his Supplemental
Reply, Cross-Defendant argues most of Miglino’s Declaration is inadmissible. (See
Supplemental Reply, pp. 4-5.) The Court disagrees and overrules
Cross-Defendant’s evidentiary objections Nos. 1-7, 9, 11, 13-23 as the Court believes they go to the weight, not the
admissibility of these statements. However, the
Court sustains evidentiary objections Nos. 8, 10, and 12 as these portions of
Miglino’s declaration are based upon information and belief and are
inadmissible for purposes of proving the probable validity of a claim, such as
to trials or SLAPP motions. (See Evans
v. Unkow (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1490, 1498.) 
Cross-Defendant further
argues that, even if the Court finds Miglino’s declaration admissible,
“Miglino’s declaration doesn’t factually rebut anything Malone swore to in his
declaration.” (Supplemental Reply, pg. 5.)[5]
The Court will address the parties’
evidence and arguments below. 
1.              
Breach of Contract 
“The standard elements of a
claim for breach of contract are: ‘(1) the contract, (2) plaintiff’s
performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4)
damage to plaintiff therefrom.’” (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New York
Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.) 
          Cross-Complainant
hasn’t met its burden in demonstrating a probability of prevailing on the
merits as to its first two causes of action for breach of the Employment
Agreement and the Proprietary Information Agreement. Besides the second cause
of action’s allegations concerning Cross-Defendant’s failure to perform as CFO,
both causes of action are based on Cross-Defendant’s disclosure of confidential
and proprietary information to potential customers and investors. (See Cross-Complaint,
¶¶ 35, 43.) While the Court finds Cross-Complainant has demonstrated the
existence of the agreements by attaching both to Miglino’s Declaration, the
Court does not find Cross-Complainant has made a sufficient prima facie showing
of facts that Cross-Defendant actually breached these agreements by
disclosing confidential and/or proprietary information. (See Miglino Decl., ¶¶ 3, 7,
Exs. A, B.) The only admissible evidence Cross-Complainant submits in
support of its allegations that Cross-Defendant breached the agreements is the
following: (1) Cross-Defendant twice-appeared at an industry event with an investor
and (2) “the same investor sent a demand letter to [Cross-Complainant] which
included non-public information which could only have been disclosed by”
Cross-Defendant. (Miglino Decl., ¶¶ 13, 15, 17.) 
The Court finds this
evidence too speculative to be sufficient. Without any additional evidence as
to what Cross-Defendant allegedly disclosed, the Court has no ability to
compare the content of Cross-Defendant’s alleged disclosures with the
prohibitions listed in the Employment Agreement and Proprietary Information
Agreement and therefore determine whether he in fact breached the agreements. 
Accordingly, Cross-Defendant’s
Motion is GRANTED as to Cross-Complainant’s first cause of action for breach of
contract. The Court also GRANTS IN PART Cross-Defendant’s Motion as to
Cross-Complainant’s second cause of action for breach of contract, as the Court
will not strike Cross-Complainant’s allegations concerning Cross-Defendant’s
performance as CFO, discussed above.   
2.              
Breach of Fiduciary Duty
Breach of fiduciary duty requires a plaintiff to “demonstrate
the existence of a fiduciary relationship, breach of that duty and damages.” (Charnay v. Cobert
(2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 182.)
The Court reincorporates its
breach of contract analysis here. Cross-Complainant has not met its burden as
to its third cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty because Cross-Complainant
has not made a sufficient prima facie showing of facts that Cross-Defendant actually
breached a fiduciary duty by disclosing confidential and/or proprietary
information. 
Accordingly,
Cross-Defendant’s Motion is GRANTED as to Cross-Complainant’s third cause of
action for breach of fiduciary duty.
3.              
Misappropriation of Trade Secrets
“A cause of action for
misappropriation of trade secrets requires a plaintiff to
show the plaintiff owned the trade secret; at the time of
misappropriation, the
information was a trade secret; the defendant improperly
acquired, used, or
disclosed the trade secret; the plaintiff was harmed; and the
defendant’s
acquisition, use, or disclosure of the trade secret was a
substantial factor in
causing the plaintiff harm.” (AMN Healthcare, Inc. v. Aya
Healthcare Services,
Inc. (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 923, 942 (citations omitted).)
The Court once again reincorporates
its breach of contract analysis here. Cross-Complainant has not met its burden
as to its fourth cause of action for misappropriation of trade secrets because
Cross-Complainant has not made a sufficient prima facie showing of facts that
Cross-Defendant actually disclosed confidential and/or proprietary
information. 
Accordingly,
Cross-Defendant’s Motion is GRANTED as to Cross-Complainant’s fourth cause of action for misappropriation of trade
secrets.
C.      Fees Shall Be Determined by Separately
Noticed Motion.
Cross-Defendant requests
attorney’s fees, which he intends to file as a separate noticed motion. The
Court will consider the request at that time.
V.       CONCLUSION
Based on
the foregoing, the Court GRANTS IN PART and DENIES IN PART Cross-Defendant’s Special
Motion to Strike Strategic Lawsuit Against Public Participation Pursuant to
Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16.
The
Court orders Cross-Complainant to file an amended cross-complaint in conformity
with this Court’s ruling on or before November 15, 2024.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:      October 23, 2024



Hon. Michael R. Amerian
Judge,
  Superior Court



 
 


