


[1]
All statutory references are to California codes unless stated otherwise.
 


[2] Cross-Defendant filed the
Motion more than 60 days after the cross-complaint was served and did not ask
the Court in a separately filed motion for leave to file it untimely, technically
rendering the Motion untimely. In its moving papers, however, Cross-Defendant did
ask this Court to exercise its discretion to hear the Motion because the
parties were meeting and conferring about it past the deadline.
Cross-Complainant never raised any objection to the Motion for being untimely.
Therefore, the Court will hear the Motion in its discretion.
 


[3] At the hearing on the
Motion, the Court allowed Cross-Complainant to supplement its Opposition, and
for Cross-Defendant to file a Supplemental Reply, in order to give
Cross-Complainant the opportunity to further address the issues raised at the
hearing and in the Court’s tentative ruling. 
 


[4] While the Court
considered Cross-Complainant’s Supplemental Opposition in reaching this
conclusion, it did not find it persuasive. In short, Cross-Complainants argue,
without reference to its submitted evidence, that Cross-Defendant was not
communicating about unlawful acts because Cross-Complainant did not participate
in any unlawful acts. Such unsupported argument is not sufficient to refute
Cross-Defendant’s claim that his communications constitute protected activity
and thus is insufficient to defeat Cross-Defendant’s argument in support of the
first prong. 
 


[5] The Court notes
Cross-Defendant also spends the latter portion of his Supplemental Reply
addressing Cross-Complainant’s supposed contractual waiver argument. (See Supplemental
Reply, pp. 5-6.) The Court will not address Cross-Defendant’s argument on this
point further, as it finds Cross-Complainant merely references waiver by
contract in its recitation of law but does not argue Cross-Defendant breached a
valid waiver of the right to protest as contemplated in Navellier, 29
Cal.4th 82 and DaimlerChrysler Motors Co. v. Lew Williams, Inc. (2006)
142 Cal.App.4th 344. 