 Case Number:  22GDCV00586    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 09/29/2023
– 8:30am
Case No: 22GDCV00586
Trial Date: UNSET
Case Name: MARVIN C. HUR, an individual….v. LOMA VISTA INVESTMENT, LLC….
TENTATIVE RULING ON
MOTION TO CONSOLIDATE
Moving
Party: Plaintiffs, CJ Prime Investment, LLC; AA Premium, LLC; TM Prime, Inc.;
Marvin C. Hur; Connie Kim Hur; Jonathan Hur; and Jennifer Hur 
Responding
Party: Defendants, Loma Vista Investment LLC (Loma Vista), and Albert Ahdoot
(Ahdoot) (collectively Defendants)
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Plaintiffs
will move this Court for the issuance of an Order to Consolidate the Unlawful
Detainer case #23GDCV01538 (filed July 20, 2023) with the within lead case
#22GDCV00586 which was filed on or about November 29, 2022. This lead case
22GDCV00586 is filed in Department E, the Unlawful Detainer Case #23GDCV01538
is also filed in Department E of Glendale Courthouse.
 
The
Motion will be made on the grounds that the two actions involve the same
operative facts and law, involve the same parties and the same real property.
In order to avoid unnecessary duplication of the Courts resources, to promote
judicial economy and to avoid the substantial danger of inconsistent
adjudications, the later-filed Unlawful Detainer action, avoids the same
witnesses testifying on common issues in all actions as well as promote
judicial economy and convenience, LASC No: ##23GDCV01538 should be consolidated
for trial with this lead case 22GDCV00586.
 
This
Motion is based on cited applicable case law and statutes, including but not
limited to section 1048 (a) of the CCP that gives this Court the power to
consolidate actions, upon the Memorandum of Points and Authorities attached
hereto, upon the declarations attached hereto, upon the contents of the Court’s
file, records and pleadings and upon such oral argument as may be offered at
the time of hearing of this Motion.
 
For
the reasons set out below, the Court GRANTS the Plaintiffs’ request and orders
the cases consolidated.
 
BACKGROUND
In
matter number 22GDCV00586 [lead case], on 09/07/2022, CJ Prime Investment, LLC,
Marvin C. Hur, Connie Kim Hur, Jonathan Hur, and Jennifer Hur  filed their original Complaint and alleged
five causes of action against two Defendants – Loma Vista Investment LLC and
Albert Ahdoot. On 11/29/2022, the same Plaintiffs in the original Complaint
filed an Amended Complaint alleging six causes of action against three
Defendants – Loma Vista Investment LLC, Albert Ahdoot, and Special Default
Services Inc. 
 
In matter number 23GDCV00481, on 03/09/2023, one Defendant in the lead
case -  Loma Vista Investment LLC –
filed  an unlawful detainer action
against CJ Prime, Marvin C. Hur, Connie Kim Hur, Jonathan Hur, and Jennifer Hur.
On 03/23/2023, in the lead case, Plaintiffs filed a motion to consolidate. On
03/24/2023, in the lead case, the hearing on Loma Vista Investment and Albert
Ahdoot’s demurrer and motion to strike as to Plaintiffs’ Amended Complaint took
place. 
 
On 06/30/2023, the Court
denied the motion to consolidate 23GDCV00481 with 23GDCV00586. The court notes
that 23GDCV00481 appears to be dismissed. 
 
On 03/27/2023, in the
lead case, Plaintiffs from the original Complaint filed a Second Amended
Complaint against three Defendants – Loma Vista Investment, LLC, Albert Ahdoot,
and Special Default Services Inc. In Plaintiffs’ SAC in the lead case,
Plaintiffs alleged seven causes of action – (1)
Negligent Misrepresentation, (2) Fraudulent Concealment, (3) Unfair Business
Practices in Violation of CA Businesses & Professions Code Section §17200
et seq., (4) Cancellation of Written Instruments, (5) Breach of the Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, (6) Wrongful Foreclosure, and (7)
Breach of Contract. 
 
On
07/20/2023, in 23GDCV01538, Loma Vista, a Defendant in the lead case, filed
another complaint for unlawful detainer. In 23GDCV01538, Loma Vista named CJ
Prime Investment LLC, AA Premium Inc, TM Prime Inc., Marvin C. Hur, Connie Kim
Hur, Jonathan Hur, and Jennifer Hur as Defendants. On 09/8/2023, this Court
ruled on a demurrer and motion to strike as to the 23GDCV01538 unlawful
detainer action and overruled the demurrer as to TM Prime as moot and overruled
the demurrer as to all other Defendants. In the 09/08/2023 Minute Order, the
court noted how Plaintiff and Defendants in 23GDCV01538 reached a stipulation
for the dismissal of TM Prime, Inc and that the Court signed the stipulation on
08/29/2023. Therefore, to this Court, it appears as if TM Prime is no longer a
Defendant in 23GDCV01538.

 
On 07/21/2023, this Court
heard Loma Vista and Albert Ahdoot’s demurrer and motion to strike the SAC in
the lead case, and the Court sustained Defendants’ demurrer as to all seven
causes of action with leave to amend.
 
On 08/14/2023 in the lead
case of 22GDCV00586, a Third Amended Complaint (TAC) was filed by CJ Prime
Investment, LLC, Marvin C. Hur, Connie Kim Hur, Jonathan Hur, Jennifer Hur, and
AA Premium Inc. The TAC alleges nine causes of action: (1) Negligent
Misrepresentation, (2) Fraudulent Concealment, (3) Unfair Business Practices in
Violation of CA Businesses & Professions Code Section §17200 et seq., (4)
Cancellation of Written Instruments, (5) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good
Faith and Fair Dealing, (6) Wrongful Foreclosure, and (7) Breach of Contract,
(8) Setting Aside the Trustee’s Sale, and (9) Quiet Title. The TAC named three
Defendants – Loma Vista, Investment, LLC, Albert Ahdoot, and Special Default
Services. 
 
The TAC appears to be the
operative complaint in the lead case of 22GDCV00586.
 
In 23GDCV01538 (unlawful
detainer/UD action), the original Complaint appears to be the operative
complaint, with the exception the Court noted above that TM Prime no longer
appears to be a Defendant in the UD action.
 
The TAC, the lead case,
deals with Plaintiffs CJ Prime, Marvin Hur, Connie Kim Hur, Jonathan Hur,
Jennifer Hur, and AA Premium alleging the Subject Property was wrongfully
foreclosed. 
 
As to the unlawful
detainer action in 23GDCV01538, Loma Vista alleges that CJ Prime, AA Premium,
Marvin C. Hur, Connie Kim Hur, Jonathan Hur, and Jennifer Hur are wrongfully in
possession.
 
The instant motion to
consolidate seeks to consolidate the lead case of 22GDCV00586 with the UD case
in 23GDCV01538.
 
The Court notes that
Plaintiffs’ notice of motion to consolidate lists CJ Prime, AA Premium, TM
Prime, Marvin C. Hur, Connie Kim Hur, Jonathan Hur, and Jennifer Hur as moving
Plaintiffs. The Court is unclear as to why the notice lists TM Prime as a
Plaintiff when the operative TAC does not list TM Prime as a Plaintiff.
Further, TM Prime is no longer a Defendant in the UD case. For the remainder of
this Minute Order, the Court will refer to “Plaintiffs” as CJ Prime, AA
Premium, Marvin C. Hur, Connie Kim Hur, Jonathan Hur, and Jennifer Hur because
those are the Plaintiffs in the operative TAC.
 
ANALYSIS
PROCEDURAL ANALYSIS
Under California Rules of Court Rule
3.350(a)(1), a notice of motion to consolidate must: (A) List all named
parties in each case, the names of those who have appeared, and the names of
their respective attorneys of record; (B) Contain the captions of all the cases
sought to be consolidated, with the lowest numbered case shown first; and (C)
Be filed in each case sought to¿be consolidated.
 
Under California Rules of Court Rule
3.350(a)(2), the motion to consolidate: (A) Is deemed a single motion for the
purpose of determining the appropriate filing fee, but memorandums,
declarations, and other supporting papers must be filed only in the lowest
numbered case; (B) Must be served on all attorneys of record and all
non-represented parties in all of the cases sought to be consolidated; and (C)
Must have a proof of service filed as part of the motion.¿ 


California Rules of Court, Rule
3.350(a)(1)
3.350(a)(1)(A) – A notice of motion to consolidate
must: List all named parties in each case, the names of those who have
appeared, and the names of their respective attorneys of record;
Here, Plaintiffs did not appear to comply with this
requirement. The notice does not indicate in any clear fashion as to who has
appeared. Further, it does not clearly indicate the names of the parties
respective attorneys of record. For example, Special Default Services is a
Defendant in the TAC, and on eCourt, a different attorney of record is listed
than the one that Plaintiffs list.
3.350(a)(1)(B) – A notice of motion to
consolidate must: Contain the captions of all the cases sought to be
consolidated, with the lowest numbered case shown first; and
Here, Plaintiffs listed the lowest numbered case
first. However, problematic with the captions is that those are not captions
for the operative complaints in each case. For example, the first case listed
does not indicate that AA Premium Inc. is a Plaintiff as indicated in the TAC.
Further, in the second case listed with the higher number, TM Prime is listed
as a Defendant, but it appears as if TM Prime was dismissed as a Defendant in
the second case.
3.350(a)(1)(c) – A notice of motion to
consolidate must: Be filed in each case sought to be consolidated
Here,
Plaintiffs have appeared to meet this requirement.
California
Rules of Court, Rule 3.350(a)(2)
3.350(a)(2)(A) – The motion to
consolidate: Is deemed a single motion for the purpose of determining the appropriate
filing fee, but memorandums, declarations, and other supporting papers must be
filed only in the lowest numbered case;
Here, Plaintiffs appeared to have filed all supporting
papers in both cases and did not file it only in the lowered numbered case.
3.350(a)(2)(B) – The motion to
consolidate: Must be served on all attorneys of record and all nonrepresented
parties in all of the cases sought to be consolidated; and
Here, Plaintiffs did not appear to comply with this
requirement. Plaintiffs did not serve Special Default Services Inc.’s counsel
the motion to consolidate.
3.350(a)(2)(C) – The motion to
consolidate: Must have a proof of service filed as part of the motion.
Here, this requirement appears to be met.
SUBSTANTIVE
ANALYSIS
ISSUES
BROUGHT UP IN OPPOSITION
Previous
Denial
Defendants point
out that Plaintiffs previously filed an identical motion to consolidate the
instant lead case with the prior UD action (23GDCV00481) and the Court denied
it on June 30, 2023. Defendants thus argue that Plaintiffs have not shown new
facts justifying reconsideration of the previous denial.
Here, the
Court does not find Defendants’ argument as to this issue availing. The prior
UD in 23GDCV00481 was dismissed, and the instant motion pertains to
consolidating the instant lead case with the current UD case in 23GDCV01538. Defendants
cite no legal support that denial of a prior motion to consolidate a different
case is grounds to deny the current motion to consolidate when the current
motion involves a different case that was not part of the prior motion to
consolidate.
Not Yet
Related
Defendants state
that the cases involved in the instant motion to consolidate are not yet
related. Defendants argue that traditionally relation of cases is a precursor
to consolidation. Defendants point out that when the Court heard the prior
motion to consolidate, the two cases had already been related. Defendants thus
argue that this motion is premature.
The Court
does not find Defendants’ argument availing. Defendants offered no legal
support for their arguments and conclusions.
Standing/Merits/Bankruptcy
Defendants
argue that:
While Plaintiffs
may argue that the basis for the consolidation sought is an issue of title to
the subject property it is important for the Court to consider the fact that
Plaintiffs’ Civil Action remains without merit which has not been cured by
Plaintiffs: a lack of standing due to a past and pending bankruptcy proceeding
and a failure of Plaintiffs to comply with the Tender Rule—an express
pre-requisite to their wrongful foreclosure cause of action. Plaintiffs have
failed to demonstrate they would have been able to cure the monetary default or
they have the ability to escrow any disputed amounts owed on the property. The
Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) in the Civil Action remains deficient2 in all
respects including lack of standing, the inability to comply with the basic
requirement to tender, or demonstrate any ability to tender the full amount of
the indebtedness existing at the time of the foreclosure sale. Plaintiffs
failed to cure a material default and there was never a cure on the default
amounts. Plaintiffs’ monetary default and obvious lack of standing should be a
determining factor for the Court to consider with this Motion.
 
(Oppo. p. 1.)
 
Defendants further
expand on the issues of standing, the tender rule, bankruptcy, and estoppel
from pages 4-11.
 
Here, the Court
fails to understand why these issues are legally relevant at the current stage
in the case at the instant proceeding on a motion to consolidate. Defendants
argue that the Plaintiffs’ lead case has no merit, but whether or not it has
merit has not been determined. In fact, Defendants state on page 4 of the
Opposition, “Failure to establish standing is a separate ground for demurrer
based on a failure to allege facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
Code of Civil Proc.§ 430.10(e); Parker v. Bowron (1935) 40 Cal.2d 344, 351.”
(Oppo. p.4.) Further, Defendants indicate that they have filed a demurrer to
the TAC which is presently set for hearing on January 5, 2024. Therefore, several
of the issues argued by Defendant as to standing, the tender rule, bankruptcy,
and estoppel appear to be more appropriate for a demurrer or a motion for
summary judgment. On pages 4-11 of the Opposition, Defendants appear to attempt
to address the merits of the lead case, but to this Court, it does not appear
as if an opposition to a motion to consolidate is the proper tool to dispute
the entire merits of the lead case.
 
As stated in CCP §1048:
a) When actions involving a common question of
law or fact are pending before the court, it may order a joint hearing or trial
of any or all the matters in issue in the actions; it may order all the actions
consolidated and it may make such orders concerning proceedings therein as may
tend to avoid unnecessary costs or delay.
 
(b) The court, in furtherance of convenience or
to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and
economy, may order a separate trial of any cause of action, including a cause
of action asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any
number of causes of action or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury
required by the Constitution or a statute of this state or of the United
States.
 
(CCP §1048(a)-(b).)

 
In the statute on consolidation
– CCP §1048 – the Court does not see where it is supposed to consider the
underlying merits of the cases that are sought to be consolidated.


Prerequisites for Injunctive Relief
Defendants
argue that the motion to consolidate should be denied because Plaintiffs cannot
establish the prerequisites for injunctive relief. 
Defendants argue that the request to consolidate the
pending civil action with the UD action is the functional equivalent of a
motion for injunctive relief. The Court notes that Defendant cited no legal
support for this proposition.
Defendants
then argue:
In deciding whether an injunction
should issue, the trial court must evaluate two interrelated factors: (1) the
likelihood that the applicant will prevail on the merits at trial; and (2) the
interim harm that the applicant is likely to sustain if the injunction were
denied, as compared to the harm that the opposing party is likely to suffer if
the preliminary injunction were issued. See, e.g., Langford v. Superior
Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 21, 28, 233 Cal.Rptr. 387; Baypoint Mortgage
Corp. v. Crest Premium etc. Trust (1985) 168 Cal.App. 3d 818, 824, 214, 11
Cal.Rptr. 531. “The power to issue preliminary injunction is an extraordinary
one and should be exercised with great caution and only where it appears that
sufficient cause for hasty action exists,” West v. Lind (1960) 186
Cal.App. 2d 563, 565, 9 Cal.Rptr. 288. 
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion should be denied
for the following reasons: (1) Plaintiff has not established a reasonable
likelihood of success on the merits; (2) Plaintiff has not established an
inadequacy of other remedies at law (i.e money damages); (3) Plaintiff has not
established irreparable injury; (4) If the Motion to Consolidate is granted,
the interim harm and prejudice to UD Action Plaintiff LVI is far greater than
the interim harm of the Civil Action Plaintiffs; and (5) Plaintiffs own unclean hands
precludes the relief in question. Plaintiffs were represented by counsel and
despite the same exact facts, failed to file a Civil Action before the
foreclosure and failed to apply for any injunctive relief to halt the sale,
which LVI posits is because they knew that they could not meet the above
standards particularly their ability to pay and ultimately the likelihood of
success on the merits.
 
(Oppo. p. 11-12.)
 
One issue with
Defendants’ arguments is that Defendants provide no citations to support that
the injunctive relief standards apply on a motion to consolidate. 
 
In fact, the first
case cited by Defendants, Langford v. Superior Court, has nothing to do
with a motion to consolidate: Langford addressed whether the Los Angeles
Police Department (LAPD) should be enjoined from using a motorized battering
ram and pyrotechnic explosive devices known as “flashbangs” to execute searches
of so-called “rock houses,” which are specially fortified residential dwellings
where crystallized “rock” cocaine is made and sold.
 
On pages 11-13 of
the Opposition, Defendants expand on these arguments pertaining to injunctive
relief. 
 
The Court does not
find Defendants’ arguments availing as it sees nothing in the standard for a
motion to consolidate to require Plaintiffs seeking to consolidate to show a
likelihood of success in the civil action.

RULING
“Code of Civil Procedure
section 1048 grants discretion to the trial courts to consolidate actions
involving common questions of law or fact. The trial court's decision will not
be disturbed on appeal absent a clear showing of abuse of discretion.” (Todd-Stenberg
v. Dalkon Shield Claimants Trust (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 976, 978-79; see CCP
§1048(a)-(b).)
Moving Plaintiffs argue that the two cases should be
consolidated because they involve similar operative facts and the same legal
issue of who is entitled to possession. 
The Court finds Plaintiffs’ argument convincing
because the lead case deals with title to property, and for Defendant in the
lead case to succeed in the UD case where it is the Plaintiff, the issue of title
appears as if it would arise.
“When an unlawful detainer proceeding and an unlimited
action concerning title to the property are simultaneously pending,
the trial court in which the unlimited action is pending may stay the
unlawful detainer action until the issue of title is resolved in the unlimited
action, or it may consolidate the actions.” (Martin-Bragg v. Moore (2013)
219 Cal.App.4th 367, 385.)
In Martin-Bragg,  the Court of Appeal held that the court
improperly determined complex title issued under summary unlawful detainer procedure;
that the resident did not assent to summary determination of title issues by
pleading claim to title as an affirmative defense, and it was error for the
trial court in determining title issues in summary proceeding was prejudicial. 
In the discussion of Martin-Bragg, the Court of
Appeal noted:
Each of these
cases reflect the courts' recognition that when complex issues of title are
involved, the parties' constitutional rights to due process in the litigation
of those issues cannot be subordinated to the summary procedures of unlawful
detainer. (Lindsey v. Normet, supra, 405 U.S. at pp. 64–66, 92 S.Ct.
862 [summary unlawful detainer procedures are constitutionally acceptable
when they are applied to straightforward issues of possession and incidental
damages].) By failing to determine whether and how Moore's rights and needs
might be balanced with Martin–Bragg's legitimate interests in the matter's
prompt resolution, and instead proceeding to try the complex issue of the
parties' rights to title of the property within the confines of the summary
procedures that apply only to straightforward determination rights to
possession, the court abused its discretion.
 
(Martin-Bragg
v. Moore (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 367, 391.)
 
Further in the
discussion of Martin-Bragg, the Court of Appeal noted:
 
The cases cited
above are consistent in holding that adjudication of complex issues of title to
property should not be forced to adhere to the strictures that apply to
summary proceedings for unlawful detainer. (Lynch & Freytag v.
Cooper,supra, 218 Cal.App.3d at p. 609, 267 Cal.Rptr. 189 [“It
would obviously be unfair to require the defendant-tenant to defend against
ordinary civil actions under the constraints of the summary procedure in
unlawful detainer actions”]; Asuncion v. Superior Court,supra, 108
Cal.App.3d at p. 147, 166 Cal.Rptr. 306 [court hearing action for title
should “retain jurisdiction over the matter so long as substantive issues of
ownership remain to be litigated”]; Berry v. Society of St. Pius
X,supra, 69 Cal.App.4th at p. 364, fn. 7, 81 Cal.Rptr.2d
574 [summary remedy of unlawful detainer action is not proper vehicle for
litigation of complex issues of title]; see Lindsey v. Normet,supra, 405
U.S. at pp. 64–66, 92 S.Ct. 862 [summary unlawful detainer procedures are
constitutionally acceptable when applied to straightforward issues of possession
and incidental damages].) The trial court nevertheless ultimately refused to
address the issue of title outside of the summary unlawful detainer proceeding.
 
(Martin-Bragg
v. Moore (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 367, 393.)
 
Defendants argue that if
these matters were consolidated it will cause irreparable harm and thwart the
purpose of the summary unlawful detainer process as intended. Defendants cite
to CCP §1179a.
 
As stated in CCP §1179a, “In all
proceedings brought to recover the possession of real property pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter all courts, wherein such actions are or may
hereafter be pending, shall give such actions precedence over all other civil
actions therein, except actions to which special precedence is given by law, in
the matter of the setting the same for hearing or trial, and in hearing the
same, to the end that all such actions shall be quickly heard and determined.”

 
Defendants argue, “In
light of this statutory absolute trial precedence, trial courts have no
discretion to temporarily stay unlawful detainer actions on the basis that an
action is pending, or a related action is pending on appeal and has potential
collateral estoppel effect. Koch-Ash v. Superior Court. (2d Dist. 1986) 180
Cal.App. 3d 689.” (Oppo. p. 14.) The Court does not find this argument
persuasive in light of the portions cited above from Martin-Bragg.
 
Defendants also argue on
pages 15-16 that if the motion is granted, the interim harm to Loma Vista is
far greater than the interim harm to the Plaintiffs. In relevant part,
Defendants argue, “Consolidation is not proper if a party to the action is
prejudiced by virtue of the consolidation. State Farm Ins. v. Superior Court
(1956) 47 Cal.2d 428, 431-432. Consolidation is inappropriate if “undue
confusion or prejudice” is “likely to result from the consolidation.” Todd Stenberg
v. Dalkon Shield Claimants Trust, (1996) 48 Cal. App. 4th 976, 979.
Consolidation also should be denied where, as here, it produces unnecessary
delays and prejudice by delaying trial. See, e.g., Fisher v. Nash Bldg. Co.
(1952) 113 Cal. App. 2d 397, 402.” (Oppo. p. 15.) The Court does not find this
argument convincing in light of Martin-Bragg.
 
Here, consolidation seems
appropriate in light of Martin-Bragg, in light of the actions involving
common questions of law and fact, in light of the fact it appears the issue of
title would arise in the UD case, and in light of judicial economy. The issue
of title would require time and discovery, and it should not be constrained by
the unlawful detainer summary procedures.
 
Defendants argue that
even if this Court is inclined to grant the motion, a substantial bond must be
imposed and as a condition to consolidation, Plaintiffs should be ordered to
tender monthly payments for use of the subject property pending trial in the
consolidate action.
 
As to the bond issue, the
Court will hear argument at the hearing. The Court notes that Defendants cite
to CCP §529(a) which deals with injunctions as a basis for imposing a bond. As
the Court noted above, it is unclear based on the lack of legal support cited
by Defendants about the relevancy of injunctions in the instant context. 
 
Further, the Reply notes
that Plaintiffs are willing to post a bond with the Court. 
 
As noted in the Reply on
page 6, “Plaintiffs agree that a bond may be imposed. It is in the court’s
total discretion to determine if the bond should be placed or not. However,
Plaintiffs will not be able to afford the rental amount of over $17,000.00 per
month requested by Defendant, and also since the title is in dispute, Defendant
should not receive the benefit of the rental value. However, Plaintiffs are
willing to cooperate with Defendant by posting a bond in the amount of
$10,000.00 per month, which will cover any Defendants’ costs as well as
allowing Defendants to make a profit.” (Reply. p. 6.)
 
At the hearing, parties
should be prepared to discuss what statutes or case law provides a basis for
the bond, as Defendants appear to cite cases and statutes completely out of
context. 
 
While the Court is not necessarily saying that CCP
§1170.5(c) applies, upon the Court’s own research, it appears to be at least
more applicable than the information cited by Defendants. CCP §1170.5(c) provides,
in connection with UD proceedings,:
(c) If trial is not
held within the time specified in this section, the court, upon finding that
there is a reasonable probability that the plaintiff will prevail in the
action, shall determine the amount of damages, if any, to be suffered by the plaintiff
by reason of the extension, and shall issue an order requiring the defendant to
pay that amount into court as the rent would have otherwise become due and
payable or into an escrow designated by the court for so long as the defendant
remains in possession pending the termination of the action.
 
(CCP §1170.5(c).)
 
However, the Court is not entirely certain if
determining the issues brought up under CCP §1170.5(c) are appropriately
addressed at the instant hearing.
In conclusion, Plaintiffs need to demonstrate proof of
service on all parties in both actions. In particular, the Plaintiffs need to
address the issue the Court notes with what appears to be lack of service on
Special Default Services, Inc. The Court finds Plaintiffs’ errors in failing to
comply with some of the procedural aspects of the California Rules of Court to
be minor, and to deny the motion on those grounds would be focusing on form
over substance. The Court is tentatively inclined to grant Plaintiffs’ motion
for the reasons stated above. Both parties are expected to address the issue of
the bond at the hearing.
The Court grants Defendants’ requests for judicial
notice in Opposition; however, the Court does not admit the truth of the
matters therein.
For all further purposes, the lower numbered case is
the lead case.
Plaintiffs are strongly encouraged to comply with the
Code of Civil Procedure, the California Rules of Court, and the Los Angeles
County Rules of Court.
In particular, the Court notes the following:
“An order granting or denying all or part of a motion
to consolidate must be filed in each case sought to be consolidated. If the
motion is granted for all purposes including trial, any subsequent document
must be filed only in the lead case.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.350(c).)
“All documents filed in the consolidated case must
include the caption and case number of the lead case, followed by the case
numbers of all of the other consolidated cases.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.350(d).)
 
Further the Court
notes that Under the Los Angeles County Court Rules, rule 3.3(g):
 
(1) Cases may not be consolidated unless they are in
the same department. A motion to consolidate two or more cases may be noticed
and heard after the cases, initially filed in different departments, have been
related into a single department, or if the cases were already assigned to that
department. (2) Upon consolidation of cases, the first filed case will be the
lead case, unless otherwise ordered by the court. After consolidation, all
future papers to be filed in the consolidated case must be filed only in the
case designated as the lead case. (3) Before consolidation of a limited case
with an unlimited case, the limited case must be reclassified as an unlimited
case and the reclassification fee paid.
 
(Los Angeles County Court Rules, Rule 3.3(g)(1)-(3).)

 
For the reasons set out above, the motion to
consolidate is GRANTED.
 
 


