 Case Number:  23GDCV00389    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 09/29/2023 – 10:00am
Case No: 23GDCV00389
Trial Date: 01/21/2025
Case Name: GARY BUNKOFSKE, an individual, v. YVETTE J. KELLEY, an individual;
and DOES 1-25 inclusive
TENTATIVE
RULINGS ON 
PLAINTIFF’S
MOTIONS TO 
COMPEL
FURTHER RESPONSES  
MOTION
1 – Compel Further Responses – RFP, Set One
RELIEF
REQUESTED

Plaintiff
Gary Bunkofske moves, pursuant to CCP § 2031.310, for an order compelling
defendant Yvette Kelley to provide further and supplemental responses to the
first set of requests for production served upon Defendant in this matter
(“RFP1”), in particular request numbers 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42,
43 & 44, and for an order directing Defendant to produce all responsive
documents in her possession, custody, or control. 
Kelley
objected to each of the requests on the sole ground of lack of relevance and,
after meeting and conferring with Bunkofske’s counsel, has stated and confirmed
that she will be standing by those objections and will not respond to any of
these requests despite the well-recognized broad scope which applies to civil
discovery. 
Bunkofske
therefore requests an order compelling further responses be provided and for
the responsive documents to be produced.
For
the reasons set out below, Bunkofske’s motion to compel further responses to
his RFPs is DENIED.
Procedural
Moving
Party: Plaintiff, Gary Bunkofske
Responding Party: Defendant, Yvette J. Kelley
Proof
of Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address (CCP §1013, §1013a, §1013b): Uncertain – Plaintiff’s moving
papers were served via electronic service to legalyjk@gmail.com and yjkelley@gmail.com.
Defendant is pro per, and eCourt does not list Defendant’s email address. So it
is unclear what is the proper electronic service address. Further, although two
opposition documents were submitted, which would seem to imply that Defendant
received the moving papers, problematic with that assumption is that Defendant
does not indicate which of the two motions on calendar for 9/29/2023 the
Opposition papers apply to. Plaintiff is to demonstrate at the hearing that the
moving papers were properly served.
Moving
Papers: Notice/Motion; Separate Statement
Opposition
Papers: Two documents were submitted in Opposition by Defendant. However, it is
not entirely clear if these Opposition documents were submitted for the motion
to compel further responses to RFP, Set One, or if the Opposition documents
were submitted for the motion to compel further responses to SROG, Set One. One
document submitted in Opposition was titled “Defendant’s Response in Opposition
to Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Discovery.” Another document is untitled and is
simply a letter addressed to the Court apologizing for the Opposition being
late and asking the Court to consider the opposition document. 
Further,
it is unclear if “Defendant’s Response in Opposition to Plaintiff’s Motion to
Compel Discovery” applies to the RFP or the SROG motion because the first
paragraph of the Opposition on page 2 of the Opposition states, “Defendant
opposes Plaintiff’s Motion for an Order to Compel on the grounds that (1) the
documents requested are not relevant to the lawsuit; (2) certain documents are
protected from disclosure by the Defendant’s privacy rights; and (3) the
Defendant has substantially complied with Plaintiff’s discovery requests.”
(Oppo. p.2.) 
This
statement would seem to infer that the Opposition is directed toward the RFP
motion because the statement references documents. However, on pages 3-4 of the
Opposition, Defendant states, “(3) The Defendant substantially complied with
Plaintiff’s discovery requests by responding to 442 of 443 interrogatories.
Defendant provided “Further and Supplemental” responses to Plaintiff on July
25, 2023.” This statement would seem to indicate that Defendant may think the
Opposition applies to the SROG motion.
Reply
Papers: No Reply 
 
BACKGROUND

Plaintiff
Bunkofske filed a Complaint on 02/24/2023 alleging four causes of action: (1)
Violation of Civil Code §1590, (2) Fraud (Intentional Misrepresentation), (3)
Negligent Misrepresentation, and (4) Conversion. 
This
action stems from Bunkofske alleging that he gave Kelley a ring in
contemplation of marriage, the engagement was later terminated, Kelley did not
return the ring, and Kelley misrepresented to Bunkofske that Kelley valued
family as much as he did.
On
04/07/2023, Kelley filed a Cross-Complaint alleging: (1) Breach of Civil Code
§1590, (2) Conversion, (3) Fraud (Intentional Misrepresentation), (4) Negligent
Representation, (5) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, (6) Negligent
Infliction of Emotional Distress, and (7) Abuse of Process.
On
06/07/2023, Kelley filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint (FACC) alleging one
cause of action for Conversion.
As
to the allegations in the FACC, Kelley alleges that in 2017 she and Bunkofske
and were engaged and began living together. 
Kelley
alleges that in 2020, the two decided to renovate Bunkofske’s property located
at 1135 Kildonan Dr. in Glendale, CA. Since renovations could have taken over a
year to complete, Kelley alleges she purchased a duplex for the couple to live
in temporarily while the house at Kildonan Dr. was being renovated. 
Kelley
alleges that in 2021 the couple moved into the duplex that Kelley bought,
located at 1305 E. Broadway in Glendale, CA. 
Kelley
alleges that the couple moved some of their possessions into the duplex, but
left most of their property in the three-car garage of the home on Kildonan
Drive because they planned to move back after the renovations were complete. 
Kelley
alleges that some of her personal property was left in Bunkofske’s garage. Kelley
further alleges that some of her valuable possessions were also left in Bunkofske’s
safe. 
Kelley
alleges that in addition to the items left in Bunkofske’s garage and safe, Bunkofske
has not compensated her for furniture and rugs they acquired together during
their engagement. Kelley alleges that her personal property is being held
hostage and that Bunkofske is using the personal property as leverage to try
and force her to return the engagement ring.
The
instant two motions pertain to compelling further responses to RFP, Set One,
and SROG, Set One, that was propounded on Kelley on April 18, 2023.

ANALYSIS
LEGAL STANDARD – COMPEL FURTHER – REQUESTS
FOR PRODUCTION
Under CCP § 2017.010, “any party may obtain discovery
regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter
involved in the pending action..., if the matter either is itself admissible in
evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence.”  The Section
specifically provides that “[d]iscovery may relate to the claim or defense of
the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action,” and that
discovery “may be obtained of the identity and location of persons having
knowledge of any discoverable matter, as well as of the existence, description,
nature, custody, condition and location of any document, electronically stored
information, tangible thing, or land or other property.”

 
CCP § 2031.310(a) provides that a party demanding a document
inspection may move for an order compelling further responses to the demand if
the demanding party deems that:
“(1)   A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete.
  (2)   A
representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.
  (3)  
An objection in the response is without merit or too general.”  

 
Under
CCP § 2031.310 (b)(1), “The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good
cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.”  
 
“In
the more specific context of a demand for production of a tangible thing, the
party who asks the trial court to compel production must show “good cause” for
the request—but unless there is a legitimate privilege issue or claim of
attorney work product, that burden is met simply by a fact-specific showing of
relevance.” (TBG Ins. Services Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96
Cal.App.4th 443, 448.)

 
ANALYSIS
As a preliminary matter, Bunkofske’s notice of motion
indicates that he is seeking further responses to RFPs 33-44. However, Bunkofske’s
Separate Statement only includes RFPs 33-43. Since his Separate Statement did
not include RFP 44, the Court will assume RFP 44 is not at issue in this
motion. (See Cal. Rules of Court, Rule, 3.1345(c).)
RFPs 33-43
Since Kelley’s responses to RFPs 33-43 were all the
same, the Court will first set out what RFPs 33-43 requested, and then the
Court will only set out Kelley’s response once because her responses to RFPs
33-43 were identical.
RFP 33
All
DOCUMENTS that evidence or reflect YOUR COMMUNICATIONS with Gary Bunkofske
regarding the CONDO (“CONDO” as used herein means the condominium property
located at Perla 1503 in Rosarita Beach, Mexico).
RFP 34
All
DOCUMENTS that evidence or reflect YOUR COMMUNICATIONS with any PERSON other
than Gary Bunkofske regarding the CONDO.
RFP 35
All DOCUMENTS that evidence or reflect YOUR contribution of any money towards
the purchase of the CONDO
RFP 36
All
DOCUMENTS that evidence or reflect YOUR visits to the CONDO since the end of
YOUR engagement to Gary Bunkofske.
RFP 37
All
DOCUMENTS that evidence or reflect YOUR COMMUNICATIONS with anyone other than
Gary Bunkofske about YOUR visits to the CONDO since the end of YOUR engagement
to Gary Bunkofske.
RFP 38
All
DOCUMENTS that evidence or reflect any PERSON other than YOU or Gary Bunkofske
who visited the CONDO since it was purchased.
RFP 39
All
DOCUMENTS that evidence or reflect any PERSON other than YOU or Gary Bunkofske
who visited the CONDO since the end of YOUR engagement to Gary Bunkofske.
RFP 40
All
DOCUMENTS that evidence or reflect YOUR payment of money towards the
MAINTENANCE (“MAINTENANCE” as used herein means maintenance, repair, upkeep, or
improvements) of the CONDO.
RFP 41
All
DOCUMENTS that evidence or reflect YOUR payment of money towards the
MAINTENANCE (“MAINTENANCE” as used herein means maintenance, repair, upkeep, or
improvements) of the CONDO since the end of YOUR engagement to Gary Bunkofske.
RFP 42
All
DOCUMENTS that evidence or reflect YOUR payment of money towards taxes
associated with the CONDO since the end of YOUR engagement to Gary Bunkofske.
RFP 43
All
DOCUMENTS that evidence or reflect YOUR payment of money towards taxes
associated with the CONDO.
Response to RFPs 33-43
Defendant
objects on the ground that the interrogatory is irrelevant to the subject
matter and not reasonable calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.
Again, Kelley’s response to RFPs 33-43 was identical.
 
TENTATIVE RULING 

Plaintiff’s reason to
compel further responses for each RFP was as follows:
For purposes of discovery, information is considered
relevant if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case,
preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement thereof. Gonzalez v. Sup. Ct.
(City of San Fernando), 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546 (1995); Lipton v. Sup. Ct.
(Lawyers’ Mut. Ins. Co.), 48 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1611 (1996); Stewart v. Colonial
W. Agency, 87 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1013 (2001). These rules are applied liberally
in favor of discovery. Colonial Life & Accident Ins. Co. v. Sup. Ct., 31 Cal.3d
785, 790 (1982). It should be noted that “relevance” as it pertains to
discovery is much broader than that which pertains to evidence for trial.
Relevance certainly exists here. 
 
The information is important not just because it is
directly relevant, but because they allow the parties to assess their exposure,
if any, and to make intelligent decisions about how to handle the litigation.
The Civil Discovery Act is designed to remove from litigation the elements of
surprise or gamesmanship and allow the parties to fully understand the claims
and defenses so that they may assess their position and encourage settlement
or, if settlement cannot be had, to be prepared to address the issues at trial.
See Puerto v. Superior Court, 158 Cal.App.4th 1242 (2008), citing Greyhound
Corp. v. Superior Court, 56 Cal.2d 355, 376 (1961) and Garamendi v. Golden
Eagle Ins. Co., 116 Cal.App.4th 694, 712, fn. 8 (2004).
 
“California’s pretrial discovery procedures are
designed to minimize the opportunities for fabrication and forgetfulness, and
to eliminate the need for guesswork about the other side’s evidence, with all
doubts about discoverability resolved in favor of disclosure.” Glenfed Dev.
Corp. v. Superior Court, 53 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1119 (1997). As stated in Norton
v. Superior Court, 24 Cal.App.4th 1750, 1761 (1994): 
 
As
a practical matter, it is difficult to define at the discovery stage what
evidence will be relevant at trial. Therefore, the party seeking discovery is
entitled to substantial leeway. (Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co., supra, 2 Cal.3d
at p. 172.) Furthermore, California's liberal approach to permissible discovery
generally has led the courts to resolve any doubt in favor of permitting
discovery. (Id. at p. 173.) In doing so, the courts have taken the view if an
error is made in ruling on a discovery motion, it is better that it be made in
favor of granting discovery of the nondiscoverable rather than denying
discovery of information vital to preparation or presentation of the party’s
case or to efficacious settlement of the dispute. 
 
Defendant should be ordered to provide supplemental
responses. 
 
The subject questions in RFP1 are rather pointed and
are well within the scope of discovery in terms of relevance. The action
centers on a gift given to Defendant in contemplation of marriage and the
return of that gift in light of the facts and circumstances giving rise to the
end of that engagement. Defendant’s view and position with respect to these
issues, and not just with respect to the engagement ring which is at the heart
of this case, is certainly relevant as it may reveal inconsistencies and contradictions
that will impact the claims being made as well as Defendant’s credibility.
Documents related to these issues are thus relevant. 
 
In addition to the engagement ring, a condominium in
Rosarita Beach, Mexico was acquired during the relationship and the nature and
disposition of that property is the subject of a separate dispute between the
parties in Mexico. Plaintiff purchased that property, but title to the property
is in both parties’ names. Requests 33 through 44 seek to obtain documentation
related to that property and Defendant’s position with respect thereto – in
particular whether she contends it was or was not a gift in contemplation of
marriage – as well as the identity of potential witnesses (those who have
visited the property with Defendant and possibly had communications with her
regarding the nature of the property) and whether she has contributed to any of
the expenses associated with the property either during or post-engagement.
Lake Decl., Exhibit A.
 
Despite the clear relevance of the questions, and the
well-recognized scope of discovery, Defendant has objected to each of them and
has refused to answer them based upon a purported lack of relevance.
 
(Pl. Sep. Stmt. p. 2-4.)
 
Under CCP § 2031.310 (b)(1), “The motion shall set
forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the
demand.”  
 
“In the more specific context of a demand for
production of a tangible thing, the party who asks the trial court to compel
production must show “good cause” for the request—but unless there is a
legitimate privilege issue or claim of attorney work product, that burden is
met simply by a fact-specific showing of relevance.” (TBG Ins. Services
Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 443, 448.)

 
Here, the Court
finds that Bunkofske has not demonstrated good cause for the discovery at
issue. 
 
Bunkofske states
that the discovery at issue pertains to a property in Mexico that was allegedly
purchased by Bunkofske, but title allegedly is in both parties’ names. He admits
that the property in Mexico is the subject of a separate dispute between the
parties in Mexico. It is unclear how those requests are relevant to the instant
action when Bunkofske admits that the requests pertain to a property in Mexico
that is the subject of a separate dispute in Mexico. 
 
Neither the
Complaint nor the FACC discuss a property located in Mexico. The Complaint
predominantly focuses on a ring, and the FACC mentions two properties in
Glendale, CA. 
 
Therefore, based partly
on Plaintiff’s own admission that this discovery pertains to a separate dispute
between the parties in Mexico, the Court finds that Bunkofske has not demonstrated
good cause for the instant requests.
 
Plaintiff’s motion
to compel further responses to RFP, Set One, Numbers 33-44 is DENIED. RFPs
33-43 lacked good cause, and RFP 44 was not included in Plaintiff’s separate
statement.
 
SANCTIONS


Except as provided in subdivision (j), the court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (CCP §2031.310(h).)
“The court may award
sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to
compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or
opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided
to the moving party after the motion was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1348(a).) 
Here, neither party requested sanctions. Therefore,
sanctions are not granted.
//
MOTION 2 – Compel Further Responses –
SROG, Set One
RELIEF REQUESTED


Bunkofske also moves, pursuant to CCP § 2030.300, for
an order compelling Kelley to provide further and supplemental responses to the
first set of special interrogatories served upon Kelley in this matter
(“SROG1”), in particular, special interrogatory numbers 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86,
87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93 & 94. 
Kelley objected to each of the interrogatories on the
sole ground of lack of relevance and, after meeting and conferring with Bunkofske’s
counsel, has stated and confirmed that she will be standing by those objections
and will not respond to any of these questions despite the well-recognized
broad scope which applies to civil discovery. 
Bunkosfke therefore requests an order compelling
further responses be provided.
For the reasons set out above, and for reasons similar
to the reasons set out with respect to Bunkofske’s motion to compel further
responses to his RFPs, the Court will DENY this motion as well.
Procedural
Moving Party: Plaintiff, Gary Bunkofske
Responding Party: Defendant, Yvette J. Kelley
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address (CCP §1013, §1013a, §1013b): Uncertain – Plaintiff’s moving
papers were served via electronic service to legalyjk@gmail.com and
yjkelley@gmail.com. Defendant is pro per, and eCourt does not list Defendant’s
email address. So it is unclear what is the proper electronic service address.
Further, although two opposition documents were submitted, which would seem to
imply that Defendant received the moving papers, problematic with that
assumption is that Defendant does not indicate which of the two motions on
calendar for 9/29/2023 the Opposition papers apply to. Plaintiff is to
demonstrate at the hearing that the moving papers were properly served.
Moving Papers: Notice/Motion; Separate Statement
Opposition Papers: Two documents were submitted in
Opposition by Defendant. However, it is not entirely clear if these Opposition
documents were submitted for the motion to compel further responses to RFP, Set
One, or if the Opposition documents were submitted for the motion to compel
further responses to SROG, Set One. One document submitted in Opposition was
titled “Defendant’s Response in Opposition to Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel
Discovery.” Another document is untitled and is simply a letter addressed to the
Court apologizing for the Opposition being late and asking the Court to
consider the opposition document. 
Further, it is unclear if “Defendant’s Response in
Opposition to Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Discovery” applies to the RFP or the
SROG motion because the first paragraph of the Opposition on page 2 of the
Opposition states, “Defendant opposes Plaintiff’s Motion for an Order to Compel
on the grounds that (1) the documents requested are not relevant to the
lawsuit; (2) certain documents are protected from disclosure by the Defendant’s
privacy rights; and (3) the Defendant has substantially complied with Plaintiff’s
discovery requests.” (Oppo. p.2.) This statement would seem to infer that the
Opposition is directed toward the RFP motion because the statement references
documents. However, on pages 3-4 of the Opposition, Defendant states, “(3) The
Defendant substantially complied with Plaintiff’s discovery requests by
responding to 442 of 443 interrogatories. Defendant provided “Further and
Supplemental” responses to Plaintiff on July 25, 2023.” This statement would
seem to indicate that Defendant may think the Opposition applies to the SROG
motion.
Reply Papers: No Reply 
LEGAL
STANDARD - COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO INTERROGATORIES


Under CCP § 2017.010,
“any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is
relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action..., if the matter
either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” 
The Section specifically provides that “[d]iscovery may relate to the
claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the
action,” and that discovery “may be obtained of the identity and location of
persons having knowledge of any discoverable matter, as well as of the
existence, description, nature, custody, condition and location of any
document, electronically stored information, tangible thing, or land or other
property.”
On receipt of a
response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order
compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that any of the
following apply:
(1)   An answer to a particular interrogatory is
evasive or incomplete.
(2)   An exercise of the option to produce documents
under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those
documents is inadequate.
(3)   An objection to an interrogatory is without
merit or too general.
(CCP §2030.300(a).)
If a timely motion to compel has been filed,
the¿burden is on the responding party¿to justify any objection or failure fully
to answer.¿(Coy v. Superior Court of Contra Costa County (1962) 58
Cal.2d 210, 220–221 [addressing a motion to compel further responses to
interrogatories]; see also¿Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court¿(2000) 22
Cal.4th 245, 255.)  
Furthermore, to the extent there is any doubt in
whether these records should be discoverable, California’s liberal approach to
discovery provides that doubt should be resolved in favor of permitting
discovery. (Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co. v. Superior Court (1970) 2
Cal.3d 161, 173.)
The party to whom interrogatories have been propounded
shall respond in writing under oath separately to each interrogatory by any of
the following:
(1) An answer
containing the information sought to be discovered.
(2) An exercise of
the party’s option to produce writings.
(3) An objection to
the particular interrogatory.
 
(CCP §2030.210(a).)


ANALYSIS

Below the Court will first list SROGs 81-94,
then the Court will list Kelley’s response. Since Kelley provided identical responses
to SROGs 81-94, the Court will list just that one response.
SROG 81
Do YOU contend that the CONDO (“CONDO” as used
herein means the condominium property located at Perla 1503 in Rosarita Beach,
Mexico) was not a gift in contemplation of marriage?
SROG 82
If YOUR response to interrogatory 81 is in the
affirmative, state all facts that support YOUR contention that the CONDO was
not a gift in contemplation of marriage.
SROG 83
Did YOU contribute any money towards the
purchase of the CONDO?
SROG 84
If YOUR response to interrogatory 83 is in the
affirmative, state with precision the amount of money you contributed towards
the purchase of the CONDO.
SROG 85
If YOUR response to interrogatory 83 is in the
negative, state all facts that support YOUR contention that the CONDO was a
gift in contemplation of marriage.
SROG 86
Have YOU visited the CONDO since the end of
YOUR engagement to Gary Bunkofske?
SROG 87
If YOUR response to interrogatory 86 is in the
affirmative, state the dates on which YOU have visited the CONDO since the end
of YOUR engagement to Gary Bunkofske.
SROG 88
If YOUR response to interrogatory 86 is in the
affirmative, provide the CONTACT INFORMATION for any PERSON who visited the
CONDO with YOU since the end of YOUR engagement to Gary Bunkofske.
SROG 89
Have YOU paid any money towards the
MAINTENANCE (“MAINTENANCE” as used herein means maintenance, repair, upkeep, or
improvements) of the CONDO since the end of YOUR engagement to Gary Bunkofske?
SROG 90
If YOUR response to interrogatory 89 is in the
affirmative, state with precision the amount of money YOU have paid towards the
MAINTENANCE of the CONDO since the end of YOUR engagement to Gary Bunkofske.
SROG 91
If YOUR response to interrogatory 89 is in the
affirmative, state with precision the dates on which YOU paid money towards the
MAINTENANCE of the CONDO since the end of YOUR engagement to Gary Bunkofske.
SROG 92
Have YOU paid any money towards taxes
associated with the CONDO since the end of YOUR engagement to Gary Bunkofske?
SROG 93
If YOUR response to interrogatory 92 is in the
affirmative, state with precision the amount of money YOU have paid towards
taxes associated with the CONDO since the end of YOUR engagement to Gary
Bunkofske.
SROG 94
If YOUR response to interrogatory 92 is in the
affirmative, state with precision the dates on which YOU have paid money taxes
associated with the CONDO since the end of YOUR engagement to Gary Bunkofske.
Responses to SROGs 81-94
Cross-Complainant objects on the ground that
the interrogatory is irrelevant to the subject matter and not reasonable
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
TENTATIVE RULING 

Bunkofske’s reason to compel further responses
as to each SROG was as follows:
For purposes of
discovery, information is considered relevant if it might reasonably assist a
party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement
thereof. Gonzalez v. Sup. Ct. (City of San Fernando), 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546
(1995); Lipton v. Sup. Ct. (Lawyers’ Mut. Ins. Co.), 48 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1611
(1996); Stewart v. Colonial W. Agency, 87 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1013 (2001). These
rules are applied liberally in favor of discovery. Colonial Life & Accident
Ins. Co. v. Sup. Ct., 31 Cal.3d 785, 790 (1982). It should be noted that
“relevance” as it pertains to discovery is much broader than that which
pertains to evidence for trial. Relevance certainly exists here. 
 
The information is
important not just because it is directly relevant, but because they allow the
parties to assess their exposure, if any, and to make intelligent decisions
about how to handle the litigation. The Civil Discovery Act is designed to
remove from litigation the elements of surprise or gamesmanship and allow the
parties to fully understand the claims and defenses so that they may assess
their position and encourage settlement or, if settlement cannot be had, to be
prepared to address the issues at trial. See Puerto v. Superior Court, 158
Cal.App.4th 1242 (2008), citing Greyhound Corp. v. Superior Court, 56 Cal.2d
355, 376 (1961) and Garamendi v. Golden Eagle Ins. Co., 116 Cal.App.4th 694,
712, fn. 8 (2004).
 
“California’s pretrial
discovery procedures are designed to minimize the opportunities for fabrication
and forgetfulness, and to eliminate the need for guesswork about the other
side’s evidence, with all doubts about discoverability resolved in favor of disclosure.”
Glenfed Dev. Corp. v. Superior Court, 53 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1119 (1997). As
stated in Norton v. Superior Court, 24 Cal.App.4th 1750, 1761 (1994): 
 
As a practical matter, it is difficult to
define at the discovery stage what evidence will be relevant at trial.
Therefore, the party seeking discovery is entitled to substantial leeway.
(Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co., supra, 2 Cal.3d at p. 172.) Furthermore,
California's liberal approach to permissible discovery generally has led the
courts to resolve any doubt in favor of permitting discovery. (Id. at p. 173.)
In doing so, the courts have taken the view if an error is made in ruling on a
discovery motion, it is better that it be made in favor of granting discovery
of the nondiscoverable rather than denying discovery of information vital to
preparation or presentation of the party’s case or to efficacious settlement of
the dispute.
 
Defendant should be
ordered to provide supplemental responses. 
 
The subject questions
in SROG1 are rather pointed and are well within the scope of discovery in terms
of relevance. The action centers on a gift given to Defendant in contemplation
of marriage and the return of that gift in light of the facts and circumstances
giving rise to the end of that engagement. Defendant’s view and position with
respect to these issues, and not just with respect to the engagement ring which
is at the heart of this case, is certainly relevant as it may reveal
inconsistencies and contradictions that will impact the claims being made as
well as Defendant’s credibility.
 
In addition to the
engagement ring, a condominium in Rosarita Beach, Mexico was acquired during
the relationship and the nature and disposition of that property is the subject
of a separate dispute between the parties in Mexico. Plaintiff purchased that property,
but title to the property is in both parties’ names. Interrogatories 81 through
94 seek to obtain information related to that property and Defendant’s position
with respect thereto – in particular whether she contends it was or was not a
gift in contemplation of marriage – as well as the identity of potential
witnesses (those who have visited the property with Defendant and possibly had
communications with her regarding the nature of the property and whether she
has contributed to any of the expenses associated with the property
post-engagement. Lake Decl., Exhibit A. 
 
Despite the clear
relevance of the questions, and the well-recognized scope of discovery,
Defendant has objected to each of them and has refused to answer them based
upon a purported lack of relevance.
 
(Pl. Sep. Stmt. p. 2-4.)
 
If a timely motion to
compel has been filed, the¿burden is on the responding party¿to justify any
objection or failure fully to answer.¿(Coy v. Superior Court of Contra Costa
County (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220–221 [addressing a motion to compel further
responses to interrogatories]; see also¿Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court¿(2000)
22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)  
 
Unlike a motion to
compel further responses with respect to requests for production, a motion to
compel further responses with respect to SROGs does not require good cause by
movant. Here, Kelley either did not submit Opposition, or he Opposition is
entirely unresponsive. Kelley stated only that “ The Defendant substantially
complied with Plaintiff’s discovery requests by responding to 442 of 443
interrogatories. Defendant provided “Further and Supplemental” responses to
Plaintiff on July 25, 2023.” (Def. Oppo. p. 3.) 
 
All of that said, and even
though the burden is on Kelley to justify any objections and the Opposition did
not stand behind its objections, the Court finds, for reasons similar to the
ones set out above with respect to the first motion to compel, that Kelley’s responses
are valid objections as to irrelevancy
 
For the reasons already discussed in the first motion,
the Court finds that Defendant asserted valid objections.  The Mexican condo appears irrelevant to the
claims in the Complaint and the First Amended Cross-Complaint. 
 
Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to
SROGs 81-94 is DENIED.
 
 

Sanctions

“The
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (CCP
§2030.300(d).)
“The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act
in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule, 3.1348(a).)
Here, neither party requested sanctions, so no
sanctions are awarded.