 Case Number:  23GDCV00001    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  E Case No: 23GDCV00001
Hearing Date: 09/29/2023 – 10:00am
Trial Date: UNSET
Case Name: CAMERON STALLONES, an individual; ERICA RYAN
STALLONES, an individual, v. WILLIAM LEE, in individual; and DOES 1-10
inclusive
 
[TENTATIVE RULING ON
DEMURRER]
RELIEF REQUESTED
Defendant William Lee will demur to the Second
Amended Complaint filed by Plaintiffs Cameron Stallones and Erica Ryan
Stallones, filed on July 20, 2023, on grounds that the statute of limitations
for negligence bars the Second Amended Complaint (Code of Civil Procedure
section 430.10, subdivision (e) [“The pleading does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action”]) and that the Plaintiffs have failed to join
an indispensable party to the action, a receiver in possession with exclusive
control over the subject property (Id., at subdivision (d) [“There is a defect
or misjoinder of parties”]).
 
For
the reasons set out below, and subject to further discussion at the hearing,
the Court’s tentative is to OVERRULE the demurrer.


PROCEDURAL
Moving Party:  Defendant, William Lee
Responding Party: Plaintiffs, Cameron Stallones and Erica Ryan
Stallones
BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs filed a
Complaint on 01/03/2023. Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) on
04/18/2023. On 06/30/2023, the Court heard Defendant’s demurrer to the FAC and sustained
it with 20 days leave to amend.
On
07/20/2023, Plaintiffs, Cameron Stallones and Erica Ryan Stallones filed a
Second Amended Complaint (SAC) against Defendant, William Lee, alleging seven causes
of action for: (1) Negligence, (2) Tortious Breach of Implied Warranty of
Habitability, (3) Breach of the Covenant of Quiet Use and Enjoyment, (4) Breach
of Contract, (5) Nuisance, (6) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and
Fair Dealing, and (7) Violation of Civil Code Section 1942.4.
LEGAL STANDARDS FOR DEMURRERS
Demurrer
– Sufficiency
A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda, (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
740, 747.)  When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of
Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)  The court “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting
all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law ….”  (Berkley
v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) 
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of
the pleading or via proper judicial notice. 
(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.)  A demurrer tests the pleadings
alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters; therefore, it lies only
where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially
noticed.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.30,
430.70.)  The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147
Cal.App.4th at 747.)  
The
general rule is that the plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts, not
evidentiary facts.  (Doe v. City of
Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.) 
“All that is required of a plaintiff, as a matter of pleading … is that
his complaint set forth the essential facts of the case with reasonable
precision and with sufficient particularity to acquaint the defendant with the
nature, source and extent of his cause of action.”  (Rannard v. Lockheed Aircraft Corp.
(1945) 26 Cal.2d 149, 156-157.)  
On
demurrer, a trial court has an independent duty to “determine whether or not
the … complaint alleges facts sufficient to state a cause of action under any
legal theory.”  (Das v. Bank of
America, N.A. (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 727, 734.)  Demurrers do not lie as to only parts of
causes of action, where some valid claim is alleged but “must dispose of an
entire cause of action to be sustained.” 
(Poizner v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97,
119.)  “Generally it is an abuse of
discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any
reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment.”  (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d
335, 349.)

Demurrer – Uncertainty
A special demurrer for uncertainty, CCP section 430.10(f), is disfavored
and will only be sustained where the pleading is so bad that defendant cannot
reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what issues must be
admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed against
him/her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  Moreover, even if the pleading is somewhat vague,
“ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Ibid.)
ANALYSIS
As
a preliminary matter, Defendant’s demurrer is somewhat unclear, in the Court’s
view. 
Several times throughout the demurrer, Defendant’s
arguments are either difficult to follow, or Defendant cites case law out of
context.
In fairness, Plaintiff’s Opposition is equally difficult
to follow.
Defendant argues that every single cause of action in
the SAC has a statute of limitations of two years because negligence has a
statute of limitations of two years and, because the gravamen of the SAC is
negligence, the two-year statute of limitations applies to all causes of action
in the SAC. 
The Court does not agree. Even under the case law
quoted by Defendant in Hensler, Defendant’s own quote does not support
that assertion. Defendant’s quote from Hensler references determining
the statute of limitations to a cause of action, not an entire complaint.
Defendant’s quote does not state that a single cause of action in a complaint
determines the statute of limitations for the entire complaint when the
complaint alleges several different causes of action.
Both Defendant and Plaintiff discuss Aryeh v. Canon
Business Solutions, Inc. (2013) 44 Cal.4th 1185. However, the Court does
not find it necessary to address that case based on the lack of clarity in Defendant’s
demurrer.
In Plaintiff’s SAC, Plaintiff has a section titled
“General Allegations” located at ¶¶1-37 of the SAC. These General Allegations
are incorporated into every cause of action in the SAC.
Defendant groups several of the allegations in the General
Allegations section of the SAC into categories in its demurrer as “Allegations
from More than Ten (10) Years Ago,” “Allegations within the Past (5) Years,”
and “Allegations within the Past Three (3) Years.”
It appears, although it is not entirely clear, that Defendant
is arguing that these allegations are barred based on Defendant’s assertion
that negligence has a two-year statute of limitations. 
The Court does not find Defendant’s argument availing
for several reasons. 
First, even if the Court were to assume that the
allegations that Defendant refers to are barred based on the two-year
negligence statute of limitations, the allegations that Defendant refers to are
incorporated in every single claim in the SAC since they are part of the
General Allegations. Therefore, even if one of those groups of allegations
referred to by Defendant was barred under a negligence theory, it does not mean
they are barred under different causes of actions with different statute of
limitations. Since Defendant did not even attempt to explain what the statute
of limitations is for every cause of action, the Court will not attempt to do
the Defendant’s job and determine what the statute of limitations is for every claim
and try to decipher what conduct in the general allegations is time barred as
to every cause of action.
Further, even if some of the conduct in the general
allegations is time barred, that does not establish that an entire cause of
action is time barred. 
For example, if a single paragraph referenced time-barred
allegations in the General Allegations with respect to negligence, that does
not mean that the entire negligence action is time barred because the SAC could
contain other conduct that is not time barred; therefore, the entire negligence
action wouldn’t be barred as a whole. The General Allegations section is not
alleged to pertain to a singular cause of action.
“The defense of statute of limitations may be asserted
by general demurrer if the complaint shows on its face that the statute bars
the action.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Services (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) “In order for the bar of the statute of limitations to
be raised by demurrer, the defect must clearly and affirmatively appear on the
face of the complaint; it is not enough that the complaint shows merely that
the action may be barred. ((E-Fab, Inc., supra, 153 Cal.App.4th at
1315-16 citing McMahon v. Republic Van & Storage Co., Inc. (1963 59
Cal.2d 871, 874.)
Further, the Court notes that although the notice of
demurrer mentions failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action, nowhere in Defendant’s demurrer did Defendant provide any arguments on
this issue.
Defendant also argues that this demurrer should be
sustained with leave to amend for Plaintiff’s failure to join an indispensable
party. 
Defendant argues as follows:
Finally,
Plaintiffs have failed to join a necessary party, the current property manager
and receiver. The SAC alleges that “On or about December 14, 2021 the Court
appointed Eric P. Beatty as receiver of the real property located at 11408-1410
Rock Glen Ave. The Court granted Mr. Beatty with the powers and
responsibilities of operating, managing, controlling, and maintaining the
Property. These responsibilities included keeping the Property in good repair. The
Order restricted Mr. Lee’s ability to enter the Property or take any action to
interfere with the Receiver or to use, operate, manage, or control the Property.”
(SAC, ¶¶ 29-30).
 
In other words,
Lee no longer has possession or control over the subject Property. In other
words, it has been legally impossible for Lee to comply with any maintenance
requests since December 14, 2021.
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 389, subdivision (a) requires that Plaintiffs join the
receiver as a Defendant, for the following reasons: 
 
A person who is subject to service
of process and whose joinder will not deprive the court of jurisdiction over
the subject matter of the action shall be joined as a party in the action
if (1) in his absence complete relief cannot be accorded among those already
parties or (2) he claims an interest relating to the subject of the action and
is so situated that the disposition of the action in his absence may (i) as a
practical matter impair or impede his ability to protect that interest or (ii)
leave any of the persons already parties subject to a substantial risk of
incurring double, multiple, or otherwise inconsistent obligations by reason of
his claimed interest. If he has not been so joined, the court shall order
that he be made a party. 
 
The receiver is
subject to service of process, since this Court has personal jurisdiction over
the receiver and subject matter jurisdiction over the Property. Although
Plaintiffs should seek leave of the court appointing the receiver, (the Los
Angeles Superior Court, Department A, Burbank Courthouse), the receiver may be
joined without depriving this Court of “jurisdiction.” (Ostrowski v. Miller
(1964) 226 Cal. App. 2d 79, 85.)
 
(Dem. p. 9-10.)
 
For clarity, the
Court cites CCP §389(a)-(d) below:
 
(a) A person
who is subject to service of process and whose joinder will not deprive the
court of jurisdiction over the subject matter of the action shall be joined as
a party in the action if (1) in his absence complete relief cannot be
accorded among those already parties or (2) he claims an interest relating
to the subject of the action and is so situated that the disposition of the
action in his absence may (i) as a practical matter impair or impede his
ability to protect that interest or (ii) leave any of the persons already
parties subject to a substantial risk of incurring double, multiple, or
otherwise inconsistent obligations by reason of his claimed interest. If he has
not been so joined, the court shall order that he be made a party.
 
(b) If a
person as described in paragraph (1) or (2) of subdivision (a) cannot be made a
party, the court shall determine whether in equity and good conscience the
action should proceed among the parties before it, or should be dismissed
without prejudice, the absent person being thus regarded as indispensable. The
factors to be considered by the court include: (1) to what extent a
judgment rendered in the person’s absence might be prejudicial to him or those
already parties; (2) the extent to which, by protective provisions in the
judgment, by the shaping of relief, or other measures, the prejudice can be
lessened or avoided; (3) whether a judgment rendered in the person’s
absence will be adequate; (4) whether the plaintiff or cross-complainant will
have an adequate remedy if the action is dismissed for nonjoinder.
 
(c) A
complaint or cross-complaint shall state the names, if known to the pleader, of
any persons as described in paragraph (1) or (2) of subdivision (a) who are not
joined, and the reasons why they are not joined.
 
(d) Nothing
in this section affects the law applicable to class actions.
 
(CCP §389(a)-(d).)
 
As to Defendant’s
joinder argument, the Court requests that both parties address this issue at
the hearing. Plaintiff did not address the issue of joinder in its Opposition. Further,
what the Court is concerned about with respect to Defendant’s argument is whether
the Court has to sustain a demurrer for this issue. Both parties should be
prepared to address the issue of the alleged indispensable party at the
hearing. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE
Defendant’s
arguments as to sustaining the demurrer based on the statute of limitations is
unavailing. Both parties should be prepared to address the issue of the alleged
indispensable party at the hearing and how the parties intend to deal with this
potential issue. On eCourt, this hearing is titled “Hearing on Demurrer – with
Motion to Strike (CCP 430.10) To Second Amended Complt. Filed by Deft. (5428)”;
however, no motion to strike was filed with this demurrer. 
 
The Court’s
tentative—subject to further discussion at the hearing—is to OVERRULE the
demurrer.
 
 
 
 
 