 Case Number:  23GDCV01018    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  E Case No: 23GDCV01018
Hearing Date: 09/29/2023 – 10:00am
Trial Date: UNSET
Case Name: LEONOR VAZQUEZ v. AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO.,
INC., a California Corporations, and DOES 1-10, inclusive
 
[TENTATIVE RULING ON
DEMURRER]
RELIEF REQUESTED
Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
("AHM") will demur and hereby does demur to the Second Cause of
Action for Fraudulent Inducement-Concealment asserted by Plaintiff Leonor
Vazquez (”Plaintiff”) against AHM in Plaintiff’s Complaint.
                                                                                                   
Pursuant
to Cal. Civ. Proc. Code §430.10(e) (West), Plaintiff’s Second Cause of Action
fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a fraud cause of action against
AHM. Therefore, even if all the facts alleged in Plaintiff’s Complaint are
true, this cause of action against AHM must fail as a matter of law.
 
For
the reasons set out below, the demurrer is OVERRULED.


PROCEDURAL
Moving Party:  Defendant, American
Honda Motor (AHM or Defendant)
Responding Party: Plaintiff, Leonor Vazquez
BACKGROUND
On 5/16/2023, Plaintiff,
Leonor Vazquez, filed a Complaint against Defendant, American Honda Motor Co.,
Inc. alleging two causes of action for: (1) Violation of Song-Beverly
Act-Breach of Express Warranty and (2) Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment.
Defendant’s
demurrer pertains to the second cause of action.
LEGAL STANDARDS FOR DEMURRERS
Demurrer
– Sufficiency
A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda, (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
740, 747.)  When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of
Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)  The court “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting
all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law ….”  (Berkley
v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) 
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of
the pleading or via proper judicial notice. 
(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.)  A demurrer tests the pleadings
alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters; therefore, it lies only
where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.30, 430.70.)  The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at
747.)  
The
general rule is that the plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts, not
evidentiary facts.  (Doe v. City of
Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.) 
“All that is required of a plaintiff, as a matter of pleading … is that
his complaint set forth the essential facts of the case with reasonable
precision and with sufficient particularity to acquaint the defendant with the
nature, source and extent of his cause of action.”  (Rannard v. Lockheed Aircraft Corp.
(1945) 26 Cal.2d 149, 156-157.)  
On
demurrer, a trial court has an independent duty to “determine whether or not
the … complaint alleges facts sufficient to state a cause of action under any
legal theory.”  (Das v. Bank of
America, N.A. (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 727, 734.)  Demurrers do not lie as to only parts of
causes of action, where some valid claim is alleged but “must dispose of an
entire cause of action to be sustained.” 
(Poizner v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97,
119.)  “Generally it is an abuse of
discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any
reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment.”  (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d
335, 349.)

Demurrer – Uncertainty
A special demurrer for uncertainty, CCP section 430.10(f), is disfavored
and will only be sustained where the pleading is so bad that defendant cannot
reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what issues must be
admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed against
him/her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  Moreover, even if the pleading is somewhat vague,
“ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Ibid.)
ANALYSIS
As
a preliminary matter, this Court notes that both Defendant’s and Plaintiff’s
papers are often confusingly written. 
Second Cause of Action – Fraudulent
Inducement-Concealment
Economic-Loss Rule
Before
the Court will address Defendant’s arguments that Plaintiff did not
sufficiently allege sufficient facts to allege fraudulent
inducement-concealment, the Court will first address Defendant’s argument on
the second cause of action being barred by the economic-loss rule.
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s second cause of
action is barred based on Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004)
34 Cal.4th 979 (Robinson) and several federal cases. 
Here, the Court does not find Defendant’s argument
persuasive.
In part, Opposition cites to Dhital v. Nissan North
America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.4th 828, rev. granted, (Dhital,
rev. grant.,) as a basis to overrule the demurrer.
The Court notes that review has been granted in Dhital.
As noted in CRC 8.115(e)(1), “Pending review and filing of the Supreme Court's
opinion, unless otherwise ordered by the Supreme Court under (3), a published
opinion of a Court of Appeal in the matter has no binding or precedential
effect, and may be cited for potentially persuasive value only. Any citation to
the Court of Appeal opinion must also note the grant of review and any
subsequent action by the Supreme Court.” Further, as noted in CRC 8.115(e)(3),
“At any time after granting review or after decision on review, the Supreme
Court may order that all or part of an opinion covered by (1) or (2) is not
citable or has a binding or precedential effect different from that specified
in (1) or (2).”
Further, the Court notes that Defendant states in
Reply that Dhital, rev. grant. is not binding authority and is also not
potentially persuasive. Based on CRC 8.115(e)(1), the Court understands how Dhital,
rev. grant. is not binding, but the Court fails to see how it cannot be
cited for potentially persuasive value.
Defendant argues that the economic-loss rule bars the
second cause of action because of numerous federal court cases. Here, the Court
does not find that argument availing because those cases are federal cases.
Defendant appears to argue that under Robinson,
the Supreme Court has carved out an exception to the economic-loss rule when
Plaintiff alleges fraud or deceit if plaintiff can establish an independent
duty arising from tort law. Defendant appears to argue that Robinson
applied only to fraud-intentional misrepresentation and not
fraud-inducement-concealment. 
Here, the Court does read Robinson as narrowly
as Defendant and interprets Robinson in a fashion similar to Dhital,
rev. grant. 
Robinson stated,
“We hold the economic loss rule does not bar Robinson’s fraud and intentional
misrepresentation claims because they were independent of Dana’s breach of
contract.” (Robinson at 991.) Further, Robinson stated, “Our
holding today is narrow in scope and limited to a defendant's affirmative
misrepresentations on which a plaintiff relies and which expose a plaintiff to
liability for personal damages independent of the plaintiff's economic loss.” (Robinson
at 993.)
Although Defendant may be arguing that the exception
to the economic-loss rule only applies to fraud-intentional misrepresentation,
this Court, as in Dhital, rev. grant. finds that Robinson left
undecided whether concealment-based claims are barred by the economic-loss
rule. (Dhital, rev. grant. at 840.) 
Therefore, Defendant’s argument that Plaintiff’s
second cause of action is barred because of the economic-loss rule is
unavailing.
Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment
“’[T]he
elements of an action for fraud and deceit based on concealment are: (1) the
defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant
must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the
defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the
intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of
the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or
suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the
fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.’” (Boschma v. Home Loan
Center, Inc. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 230, 248 citing Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740,748.) “Fraud must be pleaded with specificity rather than
with “’general and conclusory’” allegations.” (Boschma, supra, at 248
citing Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.)
Here, Plaintiff appears to have alleged each element
of a fraudulent inducement-concealment cause of action. In fact, Plaintiff
points the Court to allegations in the Complaint for each element. 
As indicated by Plaintiff’s Opposition at page 2: (1)
Defendant concealed or suppressed a material fact (COMPLAINT, 67, 71, 98-99,
131); (2) Defendant had a duty to disclose the fact to Plaintiff (COMPLAINT, ¶¶
67, 97-98); (3) Defendant intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with
the intent to defraud Plaintiff (COMPLAINT, ¶¶ 133); (4) Plaintiff was unaware
of the fact and would not have acted as he did had they known of the concealed
or suppressed fact (COMPLAINT, ¶¶ 66, 80, 87, 134, 138-139); and (5) Plaintiff
was damaged as a result of the concealment (COMPLAINT, ¶¶ 138-140)
The Opposition’s reference to the paragraphs in the
Complaint satisfying each element appear sufficient to this Court at this stage
to state a cause of action for fraudulent inducement-concealment.
The Court finds Defendant’s arguments as to the
particularity requirements about how, when, where, to whom, and by what means
the representations were tendered, and the corporate-employer argument asserted
by Defendant unavailing because the two cases that Defendant cites refer to
fraudulent misrepresentations, and this case is about fraudulent concealment.  The Court does not see how those specificity
requirements for fraudulent misrepresentation would be applicable when
Plaintiff is not bringing a cause of action based on misrepresentations but
instead on concealment 
The Court fails to see how Plaintiff could allege
things such as how, when, to whom, and by what means the representations were
tendered when the concealment cause of action is based on a lack of
representations.
Defendant also argues that Defendant failed to plead that
Plaintiff concealed or suppressed a material fact. The Court does not find
Defendant’s argument availing. Defendant quoted a portion Daugherty v. Am.
Honda Motor Co. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 824, 835 which pertained to the
Consumer Legal Remedies Act which appears inapposite. 
Defendant also argues that Plaintiff failed to
establish a duty to disclose. 
As stated in Defendant’s demurrer:
The duty to
disclose arises in four ways: “(1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary
relationship with the plaintiff, (2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge
of material facts not known to the plaintiff, (3) when the defendant actively
conceals a material fact from the plaintiff and (4) when the defendant makes
partial representations but also suppresses some material facts.” (Heliotis v.
Schuman, 181 Cal. App. 3d 646, 651, 226 Cal. Rptr. 509 (Ct. App. 1986), quoting
4 Witkin, Summary of Cal. Law (8th ed. 1974) Torts, §§ 459-464.)
 
(Demurrer, p. 11.)
 
Defendant argues
that no fiduciary relationship exists, Defendant did not have exclusive
knowledge nor engage in active concealment, and Defendant did not make partial
representations to Plaintiff while suppressing facts.
 
Here, Defendant’s
arguments are unavailing. Plaintiff has appeared to allege a duty arising in at
the very least, one of the four ways mentioned by Defendant. As to a fiduciary
relationship existing, Dhital, rev. grant. at 844 addresses this issue.
Further, to the extend that Dhital, rev. grant. is not binding,
Plaintiff alleged that Defendant actively concealed a material fact.
 
Statute of
Limitations
Defendant
argues that since fraud has a three-year statute of limitations, the action is
barred because the timing began on October 5, 2019 when Plaintiff purchased the
subject vehicle. Defendant does not state when the instant Complaint was filed,
but the Court notes that it was filed on 5/16/2023. 
 
Here, the Court
does not find Defendant’s argument availing. 
 
The general rule
for defining the accrual of a cause of action sets the date as the time when,
under the substantive law, the wrongful act is done, or the wrongful result
occurs, and the consequent liability arises. (Norgart v. Upjohn Co. (1999)
21 Cal.4th 383, 397.) An exception to the general rule for defining the accrual
of a cause of action is the discovery rule. (Id.) That exception
postpones accrual of a cause of action until the plaintiff discovers, or has
reason to discover, the cause of action. (Id.) The plaintiff discovers
the cause of action when he at least suspects a factual basis, as opposed to a
legal theory, for its elements, even if he lacks knowledge thereof, when,
simply put, he at least suspects that someone has done something wrong to him.
(Id.) In order to rely on the discovery rule for delayed accrual of a
cause of action, a plaintiff whose complaint shows on its face that his claim
would be barred without the benefit of the discovery rule must specifically
plead facts to show (1) the time and manner of discovery and (2) the inability
to have made earlier discovery despite reasonable diligence. (Fox v. Ethicon
Endo-Surgery, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 797, 808.)
 
Here, Plaintiff
alleged, “On or around February 25, 2022, was the earliest date that Plaintiff
discovered or could have reasonably discovered the facts that give rise to
Plaintiff’s fraud cause of action. On or around that date, Plaintiff brought
the Subject Vehicle to an authorized repair facility for a repair attempt
concerning the vehicle braking on its own and having delayed braking. AMERICAN
HONDA did not disclose any information regarding the Honda Sensing Defect or
the repairs it necessitated prior to the sale of the Subject Vehicle to
Plaintiff or at any earlier date during ownership. Accordingly, Plaintiff could
not have discovered Plaintiff’s fraud claims prior to February 25, 2022.
Plaintiff could not, even with reasonable and diligent investigation, have
discovered Plaintiff’s claims on an earlier date because of AMERICAN HONDA’s
concealment of the defects in Plaintiff’s vehicle, as previously alleged above,
and because of the repeated false assurances from AMERICAN HONDA and its
service dealership agents to Plaintiff, on which Plaintiff reasonably relied,
that AMERICAN HONDA had and would repair any problems with the Honda Sensing
system in the Subject Vehicle that occurred during the applicable warranty
periods.” (Compl. ¶102.)
 
Therefore,
Plaintiff adequately pled the delayed discovery rule.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
DEMURRER
Defendant’s
demurrer to the second cause of action for Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment
is OVERRULED.
 
Opposition
requested judicial notice of a conformed copy of the second amended complaint
filed in Dhital v Nissan North America, Inc., No. RG19009260 in Alameda County
is attached as Exhibit 1.
 
Plaintiff in its Reply
argued that judicial notice of the complaint was not proper at the time. 
 
Here, the Court
failed to understand the Reply’s argument as to why judicial notice could not
be granted. 
 
Defendant’s
request for judicial notice is granted.
 
TENTATIVE RULING ON
MOTION TO STRIKE
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Defendant American Honda
Motor Co., Inc. ("AHM") will and does hereby move this Court to
strike portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint as follows: 
 
1. Plaintiff’s prayer "[f]or punitive
damages" as set forth on page 30, line 9, subpart 6 of the Prayer for
Relief in the Complaint.
 
This Motion is made pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure §§ 435 and 436 and Civil Code section 3294 et seq. on the followings
grounds: (1) Plaintiff fails to plead with the requisite specificity facts
showing AHM engaged in conduct rising to the level of malice, oppression,
fraud, and therefore fails to allege sufficient facts to state a claim for
punitive damages; and (2) Plaintiff fails to allege AHM's officers, directors,
or managing agents engaged in or otherwise ratified the conduct Plaintiff
contends is wrongful.
 
For the reasons set out below, the motion to
strike is DENIED.
 
PROCEDURAL
Moving Party:  Defendant, American Honda Motor Co., Inc. (AHM
or Defendant)
Responding Party: Plaintiff,
Leonor Vazquez
Legal Standard Motion to Strike
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in
its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false,
or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(a).) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 436(b).)  A motion to strike cannot be based upon the
grounds that a complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action, but instead is properly based on grounds of superfluous or abusive
allegations, or improprieties in form or procedure.  (Ferraro
v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 509,
528-29.)   
The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial
notice. (Code. Civ. Proc. § 437; Turman v. Turning Point of
Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63 [“judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth”].)   
Further, CCP
§431.10(a)-(c) states as follows:
(a) A material allegation in a pleading is one essential
to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the pleading
without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or defense.
(b) An immaterial allegation in a pleading is any of the
following:
(1) An allegation that is not essential to the statement
of a claim or defense.
(2) An allegation that is neither pertinent to nor
supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.
(3) A demand for judgment requesting relief not
supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.
(c) An “immaterial allegation” means “irrelevant matter”
as that term is used in Section 436.
 
(CCP §431.10(a)-(c).)
 
ANALYSIS
Defendant argues that the prayer for punitive
damages should be struck because the Complaint fails to tie the prayer for
punitive damages to any specific cause of action or alleged conduct of
Defendant.
 
The Court does not find Defendant’s argument on this issue availing.
Defendant cited no legal support for this proposition.
 
Punitive
Damages
In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example by way of punishing the defendant. (Cal. Civ. Code
§3294(a).) “‘Malice’ means conduct
which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (CCP §3294(c)(1).)
“‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights. (CCP
§3294(c)(2).) “‘Fraud’ means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or
concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the
part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights
or otherwise causing injury. (CCP §3294(c)(3).)
“In order to survive a motion to strike
an allegation of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to
such relief must be pled by a plaintiff.”  (Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal. App. 4th 1253, 1255.) Conclusory allegations, devoid of any
factual assertions, are insufficient to support a conclusion that parties acted
with oppression, fraud or malice. (Smith v. Sup. Ct. (1992) 10 Cal. App.
4th 1033, 1042.) 
Further as stated in Monge v. Superior Court,
which helps explain the case law behind alleging punitive damages: 
In determining
whether a complaint states facts sufficient to sustain punitive damages, the challenged
allegations must be read in context with the other facts alleged in the
complaint. Further, even though certain language pleads ultimate facts or
conclusions of law, such language when read in context with the facts alleged
as to defendants' conduct may adequately plead the evil motive requisite to
recovery of punitive damages. (Perkins v. Superior Court (1981) 117
Cal.App.3d 1, 6–7, 172 Cal.Rptr. 427.)
 
Perkins provides the
highly pertinent example of this standard in the context of a motion to strike
punitive damage allegations. There the complaint alleged that defendants
“wrongfully and intentionally” invaded plaintiff's privacy and terminated his
telephone service “in retaliation” for prior complaints lodged by plaintiff.
The complaint also generally alleged that defendants were guilty of
“oppression, fraud and malice.” Perkins read the complaint as a whole
and held that the alleged conclusions of fact or law considered in the context
of alleged wrongful conduct “in retaliation” pleaded an evil injurious motive
sufficient **68 to establish malice and sustain a plea for punitive
damages.
 
In G.D. Searle
& Co. v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 27–32, 122 Cal.Rptr.
218, it was pointed out that there exists an uncertainty in the case law as to
just what terms adequately describe the necessary elements of “oppression,
fraud or malice” under Civil Code section 3294. Searle suggests that
different types of injurious conduct allow different formulations in pleading
oppression or malice, but that the critical element is an “evil motive” of the
defendant. (Id., at pp. 29–31, 122 Cal.Rptr. 218.)
 
*511 The meanings of
“oppression” and “malice” with regard to Civil Code section 3294 are explained
in Richardson v. Employers Liab.
Assur. Corp. (1972) 25 Cal.App.3d 232, 245–246, 102 Cal.Rptr. 547. “Malice”
means a wrongful intent to vex or annoy. “Oppression” means “subjecting a
person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of his rights.”
Malice and oppression may be inferred from the circumstances of a defendant's
conduct.
 
(Monge v.
Superior Court (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 503, 510-11.)
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff failed to plead facts showing oppression,
fraud, or malice. The Court finds this argument unavailing as Plaintiff successfully
alleged a fraud cause of action.
 
Defendant also argues that Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages
against AHM is insufficient because Plaintiff has not alleged that an officer,
director or managing agent of AHM authorized, ratified or personally engaged in
any oppressive, malicious or fraudulent conduct, as required by Civil Code §
3294(b).
 
Here, the Court does not find this argument availing as Plaintiff
alleged in ¶7 of the Complaint, “All acts of corporate employees as alleged
were authorized or ratified by an officer, director or managing agent of the
corporate employer.”
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff cannot recover punitive damages for
violation of the Song-Beverly Act. The Court finds that even if this is true,
the prayer does not state which cause of action punitive damages applies to.
Since fraud was sufficiently alleged, Plaintiff can attempt to seek punitive
damages.
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
Defendant’s motion to strike is DENIED.
 
 
 