 Case Number:  23STCV00087    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



CLAUDIA ALVARADO, as an aggrieved employee, and on behalf of all
  other aggrieved employees under the Labor Code Private Attorneys’ General Act
  of 2004,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
Charter Communications, LLC, a limited liability company;
  Charter Communications Operating, LLC, a limited liability company; Charter
  Communications Holding Company, LLC, a limited liability company; Charter
  Communications Holdings LLC, a limited liability company; and DOES 1 through
  100, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV00087
 Hearing Date:   9/28/23
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendants Charter
  Communications, LLC, Charter Communications Operating, LLC, Charter
  Communications Holding Company, LLC, and Charter Communications Holdings,
  LLC’s Motion to Compel Arbitration of Plaintiff’s Individual PAGA Claim and
  Stay Action Pending Arbitration.



 
Background
Pleadings
Plaintiff Claudia Alvarado, as an
aggrieved employee, and on behalf of all other aggrieved employees under the
Labor Code Private Attorneys’ General Act of 2004 (PAGA), sues Defendants Charter Communications, LLC, Charter
Communications Operating, LLC, Charter Communications Holding Company, LLC,
Charter Communications Holdings, LLC, and Does 1 through 100 pursuant to a
January 3, 2023 Complaint alleging a single cause of action for Civil Penalties
Under the Private Attorneys’ General Act (2004) against all Defendants. (For
ease of reference, the Court will drop the “LLC” from the name of each
Defendant throughout this memo.)
The claims arise from allegations that Defendants—as agents, principals, employees, employers,
representatives, or joint venturers or co-conspirators of each other—engaged in
conduct amounting to various Labor Code violations against Plaintiff Alvarado
and other aggrieved employees. These violations involve civil penalties
premised on Labor Code sections 210, 226.3, 558, 1174.5, 1197.1, and 2699.
Reassignment
This action was originally assigned to Department 69 at the Stanley Mosk
Courthouse.
On June 7, 2023, Defendants made a peremptory challenge to Judge William
Fahey of Department 69.
On June 8, 2023, Department 69 accepted the peremptory challenge and, at
the direction of the Supervising Judge, reassigned this action to Department 40
at the Stanley Mosk Courthouse for all further proceedings.
Department 40 Proceedings
On June 9, 2023, Department 40 (the Court) set a case management
conference (CMC) in this action for September 6, 2023.
On September 5, 2023, Defendants made a motion to compel arbitration in
this action and stay proceedings pending the outcome of arbitration.
On September 6, 2023, the Court held the CMC, noted that the motion to compel
arbitration was on calendar, noted that all Defendants had filed Answers in
this PAGA case, and continued the CMC to September 28, 2023, to be heard
concurrently with the motion to compel arbitration.
On September 14, 2023, Plaintiff opposed the motion to compel
arbitration.
On September 20, 2023, Defendants replied to the opposition.
Defendants’ motion is now before the Court.
 
Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings

Legal Standard 
The Federal Arbitration Act
(“FAA”), while a federal statute, applies in California courts and requires
state courts to enforce arbitration agreements as required by the federal
common law developed under the FAA. (See Southland Corp. v. Keating
(1984) 465 U.S. 1, 15-16; Broughton v. Cigna Healthplans (1999) 21
Cal.4th 1066, 1074-78, superseded by statute on another ground as stated in Ferguson
v. Corinthian Colleges, Inc. (9th Cir. 2013) 733 F.3d 928, 937.).) The FAA
preempts and invalidates state law and state judicial decisions that disfavor
arbitration or require arbitration provisions to pass higher scrutiny. (Southland
Corp. v. Keating, supra, at p. 12; Perry v. Thomas (1987) 482
U.S. 483, 490.) If the parties designate the FAA applies, then California
arbitration law is preempted. (See, e.g., Rodriguez v. American Techs., Inc.
(2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1121-1122.) However, courts have found that
where the FAA is found not to apply, the California Arbitration Act (Code Civ.
Proc. § 1280 et seq.) applies. (See Valencia v. Smyth (2010) 185
Cal.App.4th 153, 178.)
 A court’s inquiry is limited
to a determination of (1) whether a valid arbitration agreement exists and (2)
whether the arbitration agreement covers the dispute. (9 U.S.C. § 4; Chiron
Corp. v. Ortho Diagnostics Systems, Inc. (9th Cir. 2000) 207 F.3d 1126,
1130; Howsam v. Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc. (2002) 537 U.S. 79, 84; see Simula,
Inc. v. Autoliv, Inc. (9th Cir. 1999) 175 F.3d 716, 720 [if the finding is
affirmative on both counts the FAA requires the Court to enforce the
arbitration agreement in accordance with its terms].) “An order to arbitrate
the particular grievance should not be denied unless it may be said with
positive assurance that the arbitration clause is not susceptible of an
interpretation that covers the asserted dispute.” (United Steelworkers of
America v. Warrior & Gulf Navigation Co. (1960) 363 U.S. 574,
582-583.) 
 Moreover, the general rule is
that the FAA governs all agreements to arbitrate in contracts “involving
interstate commerce.” (Higgins v. Superior Court (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th
1238, 1247.) The term “involving” commerce “is broad and is indeed the
functional equivalent of “affecting’ commerce.” (Allied-Bruce Terminix
Companies, Inc. v. Dobson (1995) 513 U.S. 265, 273-274.) The U.S. Supreme
Court has held that this broad interpretation includes employment contracts.
(See Circuit City Stores v. Adams (2001) 532 U.S. 105, 106.) The
defendant bears the burden of proving applicability of the FAA by showing that
its activities constitute interstate commerce. (Hoover v. Am. Income Life
Ins. Co. (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1207.) Failure to demonstrate that
the employment agreement affects interstate commerce renders the FAA
inapplicable. (See Lane v. Francis Capital Management LLC (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 676, 687-688; Woolls v. Superior Court (2005) 127
Cal.App.4th 197, 212.)
Even where the FAA governs the
interpretation of arbitration clauses, California law governs whether an
arbitration agreement has been formed in the first instance. (Baker v.
Osborne Development Corp. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 884, 893.) 
 The party seeking arbitration
has the “burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by a
preponderance of the evidence.” (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc.
(2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 842.) “Once that burden is satisfied, the party
opposing arbitration must prove by a preponderance of the evidence any defense
to the petition.” (Lacayo v. Cataline Restaurant Group Inc. (2019) 38
Cal.App.5th 244, 257.) “The trial court sits as the trier of fact, weighing all
the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, and any oral
testimony the court may receive at its discretion, to reach a final
determination.” (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc., supra, at
p. 842.) 
On a petition to compel
arbitration, the court must grant the petition unless it finds (1) no written
agreement to arbitrate exists, (2) the right to compel arbitration has been
waived, (3) grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or (4) litigation is
pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or create conflicting
rulings on common issues. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2; see Condee v. Longwood
Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218-219.)
In determining the enforceability
of an arbitration agreement, the court considers “two ‘gateway issues’ of
arbitrability: (1) whether there was an agreement to arbitrate between the
parties, and (2) whether the agreement covered the dispute at issue.” (Omar
v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) If these issues are
satisfied in favor of the movant, (3) the party opposing arbitration must prove
by a preponderance of the evidence any defense to the petition. (Lacayo v.
Cataline Restaurant Group Inc., supra, 38 Cal.App.5th at p. 257.)
Order Compelling Arbitration and
Staying Proceedings: DENIED.
I.
Whether Arbitration Agreement
Exists
“Parties are not required to
arbitrate their disagreements unless they have agreed to do so. [Citation.] A
contract to arbitrate will not be inferred absent a ‘clear agreement.’
[Citation.] When determining whether a valid contract to arbitrate exists, we
apply ordinary state law principles that govern contract formation. [Citation]
In California, a ‘clear agreement’ to arbitrate may be either express or
implied in fact. [Citation.]” (Davis v. Nordstrom, Inc. (9th Cir. 2014)
755 F.3d 1089, 1092-93 [applying California law].) The court is only required
to make a finding of the agreement’s existence, not an evidentiary
determination of its validity. (Condee v. Longwood Management Corp., supra,
88 Cal.App.4th at p. 219.)
In support of their motion,
Defendants attach a copy of an arbitration agreement electronically signed by
Plaintiff Alvarado. (Mot., Fries Decl., Exs. A-F.) The relevant arbitration
agreement is shown at Exhibit B and the signature is confirmed in Exhibit F.
Plaintiff’s opposition does not
contest that Plaintiff Alvarado executed an arbitration agreement as part of
her onboarding process.
The Court finds that an arbitration
agreement exists between Charter Communications and Plaintiff Alvarado and that
all Defendants generally may invoke the arbitration agreement.
Exhibit B to the Fries declaration
attaches a copy of the relevant arbitration agreement.
The declaration of John Fries, the
Vice President of HR Technology for Charter Communications satisfies the
requirements for verification of an employee’s electronic signature on an
arbitration agreement. (Mot., Fries Decl., ¶¶ 1-19, Exs. A-F; see Espejo v.
Southern California Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047,
1062 (Espejo).)
Last, while the arbitration
agreement facially only involves Charter Communications and Plaintiff Alvarado,
the remaining Defendants may invoke the agreement under a theory of equitable
estoppel. A nonsignatory defendant may invoke an arbitration clause to compel a
signatory plaintiff to arbitrate its claims when the causes of action against
the nonsignatory are “intimately founded in and intertwined” with the
underlying contract obligations such that, by relying on contract terms in a
claim against a nonsignatory defendant, a plaintiff may be equitably estopped
from repudiating the arbitration clause contained in that agreement. (JSM Tuscany, LLC v. Superior
Court (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 1222, 1237.) Here, Charter Communications Operating, Charter Communications Holding Company,
and Charter Communications Holdings may invoke the arbitration agreement
because Plaintiff’s claims against them are “intimately founded in and
intertwined” with the underlying contractual obligations imposed on Charter
Communications as Plaintiff’s employer.
Alternatively, the Complaint pleads Defendants as “agents, principals,
employees, employers, representatives, or joint venturers or co-conspirators of
each of the other [D]efendants,” thus granting standing to all Defendants to
invoke the arbitration agreement. (Thomas v. Westlake (2012) 204
Cal.App.4th 605, 614 [(“[W]hen a
plaintiff alleges a defendant acted as an agent of a party to an arbitration
agreement, the defendant may enforce the agreement even though the defendant is
not a party thereto. [Citations.]”].)
An agreement to arbitrate thus
exists between all parties to this motion.
II.
Scope of the Arbitration
Agreement
“[T]he decision as to whether a
contractual arbitration clause covers a particular dispute rests substantially
on whether the clause in question is ‘broad’ or ‘narrow.’” (Bono v. David
(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 1055, 1067.) “‘A “broad” clause includes those using
language such as “any claim arising from or related to this agreement”‘
[Citation] or ‘arising in connection with the [a]greement’ [Citation.]” (Rice
v. Downs (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 175, 186 [italics omitted].) “But clauses
requiring arbitration of a claim, dispute, or controversy ‘arising from’ or
‘arising out of’ an agreement, i.e., excluding language such as ‘relating to
this agreement’ or ‘in connection with this agreement,’ are ‘generally
considered to be more limited in scope than would be, for example, a clause
agreeing to arbitrate “‘any controversy … arising out of or relating to this
agreement[.]’” [Citations.]” (Id. at p. 186-87 [italics omitted].)
“Several Ninth Circuit cases have held that agreements requiring arbitration of
‘any dispute,’ ‘controversy,’ or ‘claim’ ‘arising under’ or ‘arising out of’
the agreement are intended to encompass only disputes relating to the
interpretation and performance of the agreement.” (Id. at p. 187.)
Defendants argue that the
arbitration agreement encompasses Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claim against
them because the scope of the agreement covers all claims “‘related to
pre-employment, employment, … or post-employment-related claims, … including
without limitation … wage and hour-based claims including claims for unpaid
wages, commissions, or other compensation or penalties (including meal and rest
break claims, claims for inaccurate wage statements) … arising … during or
after the termination of [Plaintiff’s] employment.’” (Mot., p. 12, quoting
Mot., Fries Decl., Ex. B, ¶¶ A, B.1.)
Plaintiff’s opposition does not
challenge the scope of the arbitration agreement.
The Court finds that the
arbitration agreement encompasses Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claim—founded on
Labor Code violations—because the language in the arbitration agreement quoted
by Defendants is broad and clearly encompasses these employment-related claims.
Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claim
thus lies within the broad scope of the relevant arbitration agreement.
III.
Interstate Commerce
A motion to compel arbitration
based on the FAA must show not only that that the employer engaged in
interstate commerce but also that “the employment relationship involved
interstate commerce.” (Lane v. Francis Capital Management LLC, supra,
224 Cal.App.4th at pp. 687-688.) Courts have found that where the FAA is found
not to apply, the California Arbitration Act (Code Civ. Proc. § 1280 et seq.)
applies. (See Valencia v. Smyth, supra, 185 Cal.App.4th at p.
178.)
Defendants argue that “the FAA
applies to the Agreement because Charter is engaged in interstate commerce.”
Defendants cite to the Fries declaration for the purpose of establishing that
“Charter, through its employees, provides products, services, and equipment to
customers nationwide, and purchases and sells goods, materials, supplies,
services, and equipment in multiple states.” (Mot., p. 6 & p. 6, fn. 1,
citing to Mot., Fries Decl., ¶ 3.)
Plaintiff’s opposition does not
challenge this position as to interstate commerce.
The Court finds that Charter
Communications’s business and Plaintiff’s employment with Defendants involves
interstate commerce for the reasons advanced in the Fries declaration.
Plaintiff’s employment with
Defendants thus sufficiently involves interstate commerce as to support
Defendants’ requested relief. Moreover, even if the agreement did not involve
interstate commerce, the Court could enforce the agreement under California law.
(Valencia v. Smyth, supra, 185 Cal.App.4th at p. 178.)
IV.
Defenses to the Arbitration
Agreement
A “party opposing arbitration must
prove by a preponderance of the evidence any defense to the petition” to compel
arbitration in the matter. (Lacayo v. Cataline Restaurant Group Inc., supra,
38 Cal.App.5th at p. 257.)
Other than matters related to stay,
Plaintiff’s opposition focuses on why the arbitration agreement should not be
enforced based on procedural and substantive unconscionability. No other
defense is raised. (Opp’n, pp. 2-12.)
A. Unconscionability 
“Both procedural unconscionability
and substantive unconscionability must be shown [for a finding of
unconscionability to exist], but ‘they need not be present in the same degree’
and are evaluated on a ‘sliding scale.’ [Citation.] ‘[T]he more substantively
oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability
is required to come to the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice
versa.” (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Dev. (US), LLC
(2017) 55 Cal.4th 223, 247.)
Whether an arbitration provision is
unconscionable is a question of law. (Suh v. Superior Court (2010) 181
Cal.App.4th 1504, 1511-1512.)
1. Procedural
Unconscionability
Procedural unconscionability
“addresses the circumstances of contract negotiation and formation, focusing on
oppression or surprise due to unequal bargaining power.” (Pinnacle Museum
Tower Assn., supra, 55 Cal.4th at p. 246.) Established case law
explains that “‘[o]ppression’ arises from an inequality of bargaining power
which results in no real negotiation and ‘an absence of meaningful choice’
[and] ‘[s]urprise’ involves the extent to which the supposedly agreed-upon
terms of the bargain are hidden [in the agreement] by the party seeking to
enforce the disputed terms.” (Zullo v. Superior Court (2011) 197
Cal.App.4th 477, 484.)
Plaintiff argues that the
arbitration agreement is procedurally unconscionable because “Defendants’ own
evidence establishes that Defendants required job applicants to preemptively
agree to the arbitration clause” insofar as the Fries declaration establishes
that “any applicant who declined to so submit would ‘be removing [herself] from
the application process … [such that] [Defendants] [would] not consider [Plaintiff’s]
application for employment.’ (Declaration of John Fries …, ¶ 6 Ex. A.)” Plaintiff
also argues that “[t]he purported agreement itself further states clearly that
the requirement to arbitrate is ‘a condition of [Defendants] considering’ an
employee’s ‘application for employment and/or [] employment with [Defendants].’
(Id., ¶ 7 Ex. B p. 1.)” (Opp’n, p. 3.)
Defendants make various arguments
for why the agreement is not procedurally unconscionable, chief among them
Plaintiff’s failure to file a declaration explaining the adhesion argued in the
opposition. (Reply, p. 1.)
The Court finds that the cited exhibits
attached to the Fries declaration establish adhesion. However, the Court notes
that adhesion connotes only a small measure of procedural unconscionability
here. (Dotson v. Amgen, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 975, 981 [discussing
low level of procedural unconscionability in the adhesion contract at issue and
going on to discuss substantive unconscionability]; Roman v. Superior Court
(2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1470, fn. 2 [“When bargaining power is not grossly
unequal and reasonable alternatives exist, oppression typically inherent in
adhesion contracts is minimal”].) Plaintiff does not provide a declaration advancing
grounds for the Court to find otherwise. Therefore, her arguments that “[t]here
is no evidence that Defendant provided new hires with the opportunity to
negotiate the form arbitration agreements provided to them” and that “there [is
no] … evidence that any of the Plaintiffs here were in a position to turn down
an offer of employment due to a mandatory arbitration clause” are not supported
by any evidence. (Opp’n, p. 4.) Nonetheless, there is a small measure of
procedural unconscionability in the fact of the adhesion contract itself.
2. Substantive
Unconscionability
Substantive unconscionability
focuses on the terms of the agreement and whether those terms are so one-sided
as to shock the conscience.” (Kinney v. United HealthCare Servs., Inc.
(1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 1322, 1330.)
Plaintiff claims six grounds for
substantive unconscionability, each addressed in turn.
a. Limited Discovery
First, Plaintiff argues that the
arbitration agreement is substantively unconscionable because it limits
discovery. More specifically, Plaintiff argues that: (1) “the purported
agreement does not provide for initial disclosures, so there is no initial
default discovery permitted at the onset of the case”; (2) “the employee is
provided with only four depositions, 20 interrogatories, and 15 requests for
production”; and (3) “the parties are only permitted ninety (90) days in which
to perform this truncated discovery.” (Opp’n, citing Mot., Fries Decl., Ex. B,
Guidelines, p. 23.)
Defendants respond that “Plaintiff
makes no showing that such discovery is insufficient for her case.” Defendants
also contend that “the arbitrator is empowered to allow more discovery if
necessary ‘to allow a full and equal opportunity to all parties to present
evidence that the arbitrator deems material and relevant to the resolution of
the dispute’” and that “the Agreement incorporates the AAA Employment
Arbitration Rules, which empower the arbitrator to ‘order such discovery, by
way of deposition, interrogatory, document production, or otherwise, as the
arbitrator considers necessary.’” (Reply, p. 2, citing Mot., Fries Decl., Ex.
B, p. 18, Guidelines, Exchanging Information and Preparing for Hearing; see
also Reply, p. 4.)
“A limitation on discovery is an
important way in which arbitration can provide a simplified and streamlined
procedure for the resolution of disputes.” (Davis v. Kozak (2020) 53
Cal.App.5th 897, 910.) “At the same time, ‘[a]dequate discovery is
indispensable for the vindication of statutory claims’ [citation], and ‘[t]he
denial of adequate discovery in arbitration proceedings leads to the de facto
frustration of’ statutory rights [citation].” (Ibid.) “In this context,
‘adequate’ does not mean ‘unfettered.’” (Ibid.) “In striking the
appropriate balance between the desired simplicity of limited discovery and an
employee’s statutory rights, courts assess the amount of default discovery
permitted under the arbitration agreement, the standard for obtaining
additional discovery, and whether the plaintiffs have demonstrated that the
discovery limitations will prevent them from adequately arbitrating their
statutory claims.” (Id. at 910-911.)
Here, the Court determines that
Plaintiff has not shown that she will be prevented from adequately arbitrating
her individual PAGA claim despite the limitations in the Arbitration Agreement.
This is because substantial discovery is provided automatically and, to the
extent that the terms of the arbitration agreement limit discovery, the
arbitrator will be empowered to, upon a proper showing by Plaintiff, enlarge
the authorized discovery. Indeed, the agreement provides that “the exchange of
information or depositions will be resolved by the arbitrator to allow a full
and equal opportunity to all parties to present evidence that the arbitrator
deems material and relevant to the resolution of the dispute.” (Mot., Fries
Decl., Ex. B, p. 18, Guidelines, Exchanging Information and Preparing for
Hearing.)
The Court therefore fails to find
this point merits a finding of substantive unconscionability.
b. Lack of Mutuality
Second, Plaintiff argues that the
arbitration agreement lacks mutuality because while the agreement covers claims
most likely to be brought by employees—such as wage and hour and discrimination
claims—the agreement specifically excludes claims most likely to be brought by
Defendants, i.e., “‘[c]laims for injunctive or other equitable relief related
to unfair competition and the taking, use or unauthorized disclosure of trade
secrets or confidential information’ as well as ‘[c]laims over the validity of
any party’s intellectual property [IP] rights.’ (Fries Decl., ¶ 7 Ex. B § C(6),
(11).)” (Opp’n, p. 6.)
Defendants respond that similar
provisions have been found conscionable in cited case law. Defendants also
argue that “Plaintiff’s argument rests on the false premise that the sorts of
claims excluded from coverage under the Agreement are necessarily more likely
to be brought by employers rather than employees.” (Reply, pp. 3-4.)
The Court finds in favor of Plaintiff
on this point.
The Court agrees that mutuality does
not exist in a provision that carves out from arbitration causes of action
that, under the circumstances of this case, would most likely result in
judicial proceedings by Defendants against Plaintiff but arbitration of
Plaintiff’s claims against Defendants.
The Court further discusses this element
of substantive unconscionability below in Section V.
c. Limitations on
Recovery of Attorney’s Fees
Third, Plaintiff argues that the
arbitration agreement is substantively unconscionable because it provides “that
all costs besides the arbitration provider’s ‘administrative fees and the
arbitrator’s fees and expenses’ are to be borne by each party respectively,
‘including without limitation each party’s attorneys’ fees[.]’ (Fries Decl., ¶
7 Ex. B § K.)” Plaintiff also argues that substantive unconscionability arises
from the agreement’s term providing “for an interim award of attorneys’ fees
and costs payable by an employee ‘resisting arbitration’ if the employee
commences a judicial action and is subsequently compelled to arbitration. (Ibid.)”
(Opp’n, pp. 8-9.)
Defendants respond that “Plaintiff
erroneously argues that Section K of the Agreement does not allow recovery of
attorney’s fees for a successful PAGA claim and provides an unlawful shifting
of fees incurred in compelling arbitration.” As to recovery of attorney’s fees
related to a successful PAGA claim, Defendants cite to the arbitration
agreement for the proposition that “prevailing party ‘may recover any remedy
that the party would have been allowed to recover had the dispute been brought
in court.’” (Mot., p. 5, citing to Mot., Fries Decl., Ex. B, Guidelines, p. 9,
General Rules, ¶ 13.) As to the interim award of attorney’s fees and costs,
Defendants argue that this provision “merely provides a common, lawful remedy
for breach of contract.” (Reply, pp. 5-6.)
The Court finds in favor of
Plaintiff on both points.
The Court first determines that a
measure of substantive unconscionability arises from the attorney’s fees waiver
because it denies Plaintiff a right to which she is statutorily entitled. (See
Mot., Fries Decl., Ex. B, Guidelines, p. 9, General Rules, ¶ 13 [“At the
discretion of the arbitrator, the prevailing party may recover any remedy
that the party would have been allowed to recover had the dispute been brought
in court,” emphasis added].) Such a provision results in a shift in law as
applied to the arbitration agreement, changing the dynamic from one in which
Plaintiff may recover statutorily permitted awards of attorney’s fees to one
where the Plaintiff must seek the right to recover those fees from the
arbitrator.
The Court also determines that
substantive unconscionability arises from the provision that “[i]f any judicial
action or proceeding is commenced in order to compel arbitration, and if
arbitration is in fact compelled or the party resisting arbitration submits to
arbitration following the commencement of the action or proceeding, the party
that resisted arbitration will be required to pay to the other party all costs,
fees and expenses that they incur in compelling arbitration, including, without
limitation, reasonable attorneys’ fees.” (Mot., Fries Decl., Ex. B, § K.)
Though the Court recognizes the public policy in favor of arbitration and
contract, this provision is reasonably calculated to chill a party’s pursuit of
judicial remedies. Reasonable courts may differ in determining whether an
arbitration agreement is unconscionable or that other defenses or reasons exist
for not enforcing an arbitration agreement. Moreover, as argued by Plaintiff
(Opp’n, p. 9), this provision unacceptably shifts to the employee costs that
would not be imposed by a court. (See Armendariz v. Foundation Health
Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 110-111 (Armendariz).)
The Court further discusses these
two elements of substantive unconscionability below in Section V.
d. Mandatory
Pre-Arbitration Dispute Resolution Procedures
Fourth, Plaintiff argues that the
arbitration agreement is unconscionable because it contains provisions that
give Defendants a “free peek” at Plaintiff’s case and shorten the statute of
limitations to file a claim. (Opp’n, pp. 9-10.)
As to the
free-peek-through-pre-dispute-procedures argument, Defendants respond that the
pre-arbitration dispute resolution procedures are not unconscionable because case
law holds that the exhaustion of internal grievance procedures prior to
proceeding to arbitration can be reasonable. Defendants also argue that the
authorities cited by Plaintiff in support of this argument are distinguishable
because those cases involved unilateral arbitration agreements. (Reply, pp.
6-7.)
As to the statute of limitations
argument, Defendants respond that Plaintiff is mistaken. Defendants cite to the
arbitration agreement to point out language establishing that “‘[t]he aggrieved
party must give written notice of the claim, in the manner required by this
Agreement, within the time limit established by the applicable statute of
limitations for each legal claim being asserted.’” (Reply, p. 7, quoting Mot.,
Fries Decl., Ex. B, § E.) Defendants also cite to the Guidelines of the
arbitration agreement, which provide that “claim[s] must be submitted ‘within
the time period established by the applicable statute of limitations.’” (Reply,
p. 7, quoting Mot., Fries Decl., Ex. B, Guidelines, p. 22, ¶ 7.)
The Court finds in favor of
Plaintiff in part and in favor of Defendants in part.
The Court determines that the
free-peek provisions connote some measure of substantive unconscionability. While
it is true that the Nyulassy case that Plaintiff cites did not hold that
the “free peek” was categorically unconscionable, Nyulassy did find that
such a provision was substantively unconscionable when combined with other
factors. (Nyulassy v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1267,
1282-1283.) Here, the Court determines that because there exist other grounds
for substantive unconscionability, the free peek implicated by the arbitration
agreement is also substantively unconscionable.
The Court further discusses this element
of substantive unconscionability below in Section V.
However, the Court determines that
Plaintiff’s statute of limitations argument is unavailing. The arbitration
agreement’s Guidelines are clear in providing that the regular statute of
limitation applicable to any claim is the same in arbitration as it would be in
a judicial action. The Guidelines even provide a clear illustration, which
reads: “For example, if the statute of limitations for filing a claim to
collect a debt is two years, then the claim must be filed no later than two
years after the debt was first owed[;] otherwise, the statute of limitations
has run and the claim will be closed.” (Mot., Fries Decl., Ex. B, Guidelines,
p. 23, Statute of Limitations.)
e. Preemptive Waiver
of Jury Trial in Any Forum
Fifth, Plaintiff argues that the
arbitration agreement is substantively unconscionable because it provides that
“‘[i]n the event a dispute between [Plaintiff] and [Defendants] is not
arbitrable under this Agreement for any reason and is pursued in court, [Plaintiff]
and [Defendants] agree to waive any right to a jury trial that might otherwise
exist.’ (Fries Decl., ¶ 7 Ex. B § L, emphasis added; see also id., p. 20.)”
(Opp’n, pp. 10-11.)
Defendants respond that the
provision complained of by Plaintiff “is irrelevant here because Plaintiff
asserts only a PAGA claim, for which she has no jury trial right.” Defendants
also argue that “other California courts examining this Agreement have held
that the waiver is not unconscionable.” (Reply, pp. 7-8.)
The Court finds in favor of Plaintiff
on this point.
A
jury trial waiver preceded by the
words “in the event that any controversy or claim is determined in a court of
law” has been found unenforceable by California courts. (See Grafton
Partners v. Superior Court (2005) 36 Cal.4th 944, 961 (Grafton) [“Resolving
any ambiguity in favor of preserving the right to jury trial, …[] we conclude
section 631 [of the Code of Civil Procedure] does not authorize predispute
waiver of th[e] right [to a jury trial]”].) Here, the arbitration agreement
provides that “‘[i]n the event a dispute between [Plaintiff] and [Defendants] …
is pursued in court, [Plaintiff] and [Defendants] agree to waive any right to a
jury trial that might otherwise exist.’” (Mot., Fries Decl., Ex. B, § L.)” Such
language falls within the ambit of Grafton and is thus unconscionable,
whether or not the complaint in this case contains claims that could be tried to
a jury. The point is that the arbitration agreement contains a clause which
translated into a situation for the employer in which “heads I win, tails you
lose” – that is, whether in arbitration or in court, plaintiff would not be entitled
to a jury. That pre-dispute jury waiver clause demonstrates that the “central
purpose of the contract is tainted with illegality,” which affects the question
of whether the clauses should be severed, or the entire agreement founds to be
unenforceable. (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 124.)
The Court further discusses this element
of substantive unconscionability below in Section V.
f. Waiver of
Representative PAGA Standing
Last, Plaintiff argues that the
arbitration agreement is substantively unconscionable because “the agreement
purports to waive the employee’s right to bring claims against Defendants in
any ‘representative’ capacity regardless of whether such claims are ‘covered’
or ‘excluded’ from arbitration.” (Opp’n, p. 11, citing to Mot., Fries Decl.,
Ex. B, § D [“[Plaintiff] and [Defendants] agree that both parties may only
bring claims against the other party in their individual capacity and not as a
plaintiff or class member in any purported class or representative proceeding,
whether those claims are covered claims under Section B, or excluded claims
under Section C”].)
Defendants respond that the
arbitration agreement “does not purport to entirely waive the right to bring a
PAGA claim, even on an individual basis,” because “the Agreement clearly
contemplates claims for PAGA penalties, as it requires arbitration of ‘all
disputes related to … wage and hour-based claims including claims for unpaid
wages, commissions, or other compensation or penalties[.]’” Defendants further
argue that “the [a]greement does not waive ‘private attorney general’ claims
entirely …, but instead waives only the right to arbitrate such claims on
behalf of other employees, as is made clear from the context of the
‘representative’ waiver, which appears only in conjunction with the waiver of
the right to represent other employees in class or collective actions.” (Reply,
pp. 8-9, quoting and citing Mot., Fries Decl., Ex. B, §§ B.1., D.)
The Court finds that section D of
the arbitration agreement is unconscionable.
Defendants’ argument that section D
of the arbitration agreement only waives the arbitrability of representative
PAGA claims is belied by the clear language of that waiver. (Mot., Fries Decl.,
Ex. B, § D [“[Plaintiff] and [Defendants] agree that both parties may only
bring claims against the other party in their individual capacity and not as a
plaintiff or class member in any purported class or representative proceeding,
whether those claims are covered claims under Section B, or excluded claims
under Section C”].)
“[E]mployment agreements waiving an
employee’s right to assert a PAGA claim in a judicial forum are unenforceable.
[Citation.]” (Oswald v. Murray Plumbing and Heating Corp. (2022) 82
Cal.App.5th 938, 943.) Moreover, “the United States Supreme Court did not
disturb Iskanian[ v. CLS Transp. Los Angeles, LLC (2014) 59
Cal.4th 348 (Iskanian)]’s holding that a blanket PAGA waiver is
unconscionable under California law.” (Alberto v. Cambrian Homecare
(2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 482, 494, citing Viking River Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana
(2022) 142 S.Ct. 1906, 1924-1925 (Viking River).)
The Court further discusses this element
of substantive unconscionability below in Section V.
3. Unconscionability
Conclusion
Here, the Court has found one
ground for procedural unconscionability and six grounds for substantive
unconscionability, thus meriting a discussion as to severance and whether the
entire arbitration agreement is so permeated by unconscionability that it
cannot be enforced.
V.
A review of the arbitration
agreement shows that it contains a severability clause, stating that “if any
portion or provision of this Agreement (including, without implication of
limitation, any portion or provision of any section of this Agreement) is
determined to be illegal, invalid, or unenforceable by any court of competent
jurisdiction and cannot be modified to be legal, valid, or enforceable, the
remainder of this Agreement shall not be affected by such determination and
shall be valid and enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law, and said
illegal, invalid, or unenforceable portion or provision shall be deemed not to
be a part of this Agreement.” (Mot., Fries Decl., Ex. B, § Q.)
“A trial court has the discretion
to refuse to enforce an agreement as a whole if it is permeated by …
unconscionability.” (Carmona v. Lincoln Millennium Car Wash, Inc. (2014)
226 Cal.App.4th 74, 90, citing Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at
p. 122.) “‘The overarching inquiry is whether “‘the interests of justice …
would be furthered’” by severance.’” (Carmona v. Lincoln Millennium Car
Wash, Inc., supra, at p. 90.) If the central purpose of a
contractual provision, such as an arbitration agreement, is tainted with
illegality, then the provision as a whole cannot be enforced. (Ibid.) If
the illegality is collateral to the main purpose of the contractual provision,
and can be severed or restricted from the rest, then severance is appropriate.
(Ibid.)
An agreement to arbitrate is
considered “permeated” by unconscionability where, for example, it contains
more than one unconscionable provision. (Magno v. The College Network, Inc.
(2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 277, 292 (Magno).) This is because such multiple
defects indicate a systematic effort to impose arbitration on an employee not
simply as an alternative to litigation but as an inferior forum that works to
the employer’s advantage. (Carbajal v. CWPSC, Inc. (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th
227, 254 (Carbajal).) The Court has discretion, but is not required, to find
that the entire agreement is permeated by unconscionability in the presence of multiple
unconscionable terms. (Lange v. Monster Energy Co. (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th
436, 455 [“we agree with the trial court that the parties’ arbitration
agreement is permeated with too high a degree of unconscionability for
severance to rehabilitate”].)
In opposition, Plaintiff argues
that the unconscionable provisions in the arbitration agreement should render
it unenforceable because (1) the agreement is rife with multiple defects that
render the agreement unconscionable and (2) the interests of justice would not
be served by severance where no continuing contractual relationship exists
between the parties and where severance of the multiple unlawful provisions
would produce, not prevent, an undeserved benefit in favor of Defendants.
(Opp’n, pp. 11-12.)
Defendants respond that “even if
the Court accepts any of Plaintiff’s arguments, the Court must sever any
provisions it finds substantively unconscionable, as the Agreement is not so
permeated with unconscionable provisions as to make it wholly invalid,”
particularly where “[s]everance … would not undermine the main purpose of the
agreement—the arbitration of covered claims.” Defendants also argue that
“Plaintiff’s analysis of the two policy reasons supporting severance misses the
mark” because (1) “contrary to Plaintiff’s … conclusion, a contractual
relationship exists here, as the Agreement expressly provides that it survives
the end of employment” and (2) “if the Court does not enforce the Agreement,
Charter will be deprived of the benefit of its bargained … right to arbitrate.”
(Reply, p. 9.)
Here, the Court determines that the
agreement to arbitrate is “permeated” by unconscionability.
The Court has found one ground for
procedural unconscionability and six grounds for substantive unconscionability,
supporting a conclusion that the arbitration agreement should not be severed. (See
discussions at Sections IV.A.2.b-f. supra; see also Magno, supra,
1 Cal.App.5th at p. 292.) Indeed, severance of those provisions and enforcement
of the arbitration agreement would be against the interests of justice, where
Defendants would be allowed to enforce an agreement that had to be so truncated
by the Court as to change the nature of the agreement itself, thus benefiting
Defendants to the detriment of Plaintiff, who would face enforcement of an arbitration
agreement rife with unconscionability. (Armendariz, supra, 24
Cal.4th at pp. 123-124.) Moreover, the existence of multiple grounds for a
finding of unconscionability shows a systematic effort to impose arbitration on
an employee not simply as an alternative to litigation but as an inferior forum
that works to the employer’s advantage. (Carbajal, supra, 245 Cal.App.4th
at p. 254.) 
Here, the Court finds that the
arbitration agreement is so tainted with illegality that the contract should
not be enforced and cannot be cured through severance. (Compare Lange v. Monster
Energy Company, supra, 46 Cal.App.5th at pp. 446-455 [considering
various unconscionable provisions and agreeing with trial court’s determination
that arbitration agreement should not be enforced].)
VI.
Arbitration Conclusion
Defendants have met their burden of
showing that an arbitration agreement exists between the parties that covers
Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claim and involves interstate commerce.
Plaintiff has met her responsive
burden of showing a valid defense to enforcement of that arbitration agreement.
The Court therefore DENIES
Defendants’ motion.
VII.
Stay of Action
“If a court of competent
jurisdiction, whether in this State or not, has ordered arbitration of a
controversy which is an issue involved in an action or proceeding pending
before a court of this State, the court in which such action or proceeding is
pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or proceeding, stay the
action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order
to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court specifies.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1281.4.)
Here, the question of staying this
action is MOOTED by the determination that the parties’ arbitration agreement
is unenforceable and therefore need not be further discussed. 
Conclusion
Defendants Charter Communications,
LLC, Charter Communications Operating, LLC, Charter Communications Holding
Company, LLC, and Charter Communications Holdings, LLC’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration of Plaintiff’s Individual PAGA Claim and Stay Action Pending
Arbitration is DENIED.