  Case Number:  21STCP00625    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  50 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 
 
 



 KENNETH WENGROD, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 MICHAEL WEISS, et al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


21STCP00625




Hearing Date:


May 6, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    2:00 p.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
DEFENDANTS
  DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S THIRD AMENDED VERIFIED DERIVATIVE COMPLAINT; 
 
DEFENDANTS’
  MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF PLAINTIFF’S THIRD AMENDED VERIFIED DERIVATIVE
  COMPLAINT
 



 
Background
On February 25, 2021, Plaintiff Kenneth Wengrod, Trustee of
The Manhattan Trust, derivatively on behalf of Lily Bleu, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed
this action against Defendants Michael Weiss and Barbara Clark
Cambilargiu, and “Nominal Defendant” Lily Bleu, Inc. (“Lily Bleu”).
            On December 26, 2023, Plaintiff
filed the operative Third Amended Verified Derivative Complaint (“TAC”) against
Defendants Michael Weiss, Barbara Clark Cambilargiu (“Barbara
Cambilargiu”), Miriam Weiss, Carl Cambilargiu, Jessica Weiss Sonnabend
(“Jessica Weiss”), Jenna Cambilargiu, Good Day Gardena Properties, LLC (“Good
Day”), and Nominal Defendant Lily Bleu. The TAC alleges causes of action for
(1) breach of fiduciary duty, (2) corporate waste, (3) unjust enrichment, (4)
fraud (concealment), (5) fraud (misrepresentation), and (6) negligent
misrepresentation.[1] 
Michael Weiss, Barbara Cambilargiu, Good Day, Carl Cambilargiu, Miriam
Weiss, Jenna Cambilargiu, and Jessica Weiss (collectively, the “Demurring
Defendants”) now demur to the third cause of action of the TAC.[2]
The Demurring Defendants also move to strike portions of the TAC. Plaintiff
opposes both. 
Request for Judicial
Notice 
The Court grants the Demurring
Defendants’ request for judicial notice filed in support of the demurrer and
motion to strike.  
Demurrer 
A.    Legal Standard 
A demurrer can be used only to challenge
defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters
outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. ((Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To
survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a
cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” ((C.A.
v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. ((Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions
or conclusions of fact or law.” ((Daar v.
Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d
695, 713.)   
B.   
Allegations of the TAC 
In the TAC, Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, that Michael
Weiss and Barbara Cambilargiu (jointly, the “Defendant Directors”) are
each a director of Lily Bleu. (TAC, ¶¶ 3-4.) Miriam Weiss and Carl Cambilargiu
are the Defendant Directors’ spouses. (TAC, ¶¶ 5-6.) Jessica Weiss and Jenna
Cambilargiu are the Defendant Directors’ daughters. (TAC, ¶¶ 7-8.) Lily
Bleu is a corporation engaged in the clothing business. (TAC, ¶ 2.) Plaintiff was and is
the owner of 5% of the shares of Lily Bleu’s common stock. (FAC, ¶ 1.) 
Plaintiff alleges that the “Defendant Directors failed to disclose to
[Lily Bleu] and its shareholders that they paid themselves salaries, bonuses,
other payments, and reimbursement of personal expenses exceeding the reasonable
value of their services to [Lily Bleu].” (TAC, ¶ 19.)
Plaintiff alleges that “Defendant Directors failed to disclose to [Lily
Bleu] and its shareholders that the Defendant Directors also caused [Lily Bleu]
to pay Jenna Cambilargiu wages that were not earned, gifts, and reimbursement
of personal expenses that were unrelated to any employment activities for [Lily
Bleu], which amount aggregated to not less than $150,973.” (TAC, ¶ 20.) Plaintiff
further alleges that “Defendant Directors failed to disclose to [Lily Bleu] and
its shareholders that the Defendant Directors also caused the Company to pay
Jessica Weiss Sonnabend wages that were not earned, medical and dental benefits
that were not earned and/or not wages, and reimbursement of personal expenses
that were unrelated to any employment activities for the [Lily Bleu], which
amount aggregated to not less than $62,692.” (TAC, ¶ 21.)
Plaintiff alleges that “Defendant Directors failed to disclose to the
Company and its shareholders that during the period 2017 through 2020, the
Defendant Directors caused not less than $38,500 of Miriam’s personal expenses
to be paid using the Company’s American Express card.” (TAC, ¶ 23.) Plaintiff
alleges that “Defendant Directors failed to disclose to the Company and its
shareholders that during the period 2017 through 2020, the Defendant Directors
caused not less than $68,400 of Carl’s personal expenses to be paid using the
Company’s American Express card.” (TAC, ¶ 24.) 
Plaintiff further alleges that “Defendant Directors have failed to
disclose to the Company and its shareholders that they paid themselves travel,
entertainment, and other expense reimbursements which were unreasonable and/or
were personal expenses, and bore no relationship to the value of these
reimbursements to the Company.” (TAC, ¶ 25.) Plaintiff alleges that “Defendant
Directors have failed to disclose to the Company and its shareholders that they
arranged for the Company to contribute, for the benefit of themselves, deferred
compensation and/or profit sharing benefits which are unreasonable in relation
to the compensation reasonably owing to the Defendant Directors for their
services to the Company, to the detriment of the Company.” (TAC, ¶ 26.) Plaintiff
alleges that “Defendant Directors have engaged in accounting practices designed
to conceal the Company’s profits, including but not limited to carrying
negative inventory reserves, making unexplained adjustments to inventory,
having an extraordinary number of inventory turns per year, and showing a very
low price per finished piece.” (TAC, ¶ 27.) 
Plaintiff also alleges that “Defendant Directors have used the Company’s
assets to pay their personal legal expenses without obtaining the Company’s
permission and/or in violation of law.” (TAC, ¶ 29.) Plaintiff alleges that “on
or about July 2, 2008, Defendant Directors formed a new California limited
liability company named Good Day Gardena Properties, LLC…to which it appears
they diverted Company funds, which were then used to purchase a new 8,736
square foot light industrial building at 1406 West 178th Street, Gardena, CA
90248 (the ‘Facility’).” (TAC, ¶ 35.) Plaintiff alleges that “amounts paid by
[Lily Bleu] to rent and maintain the Facility exceeded the fair rental value of
the Facility, to the ultimate benefit of Defendant Directors, and to the
detriment of [Lily Bleu].” (TAC, ¶ 44.) 
C.   
Third Cause of Action for Unjust
Enrichment 
In
the third cause of action for unjust enrichment, Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants
derived compensation, benefits, fees, reimbursements, payment of personal
expenses, rent, and other benefits from [Lily Bleu] and were otherwise unjustly
enriched during the time in which the wrongful practices alleged herein
occurred, to [Lily Bleu’s] detriment. Defendants also wrongfully converted
funds belonging to [Lily Bleu].” (TAC, ¶ 58.) Plaintiff further alleges that
“Defendants’ enrichment is directly and causally related to [Lily Bleu’s]
detriment. These benefits were accepted by Defendants under such circumstances
that it would be inequitable for them to be retained without payment.” (TAC, ¶
59.) 
            As an initial matter, Plaintiff
asserts in the opposition that “[b]ased on the Minute Order, it is submitted
that this Demurrer should properly consider the pleading of the Third Cause of
Action only as concerns Carl, Miriam, Jenna and Jessica. Yet, Defendants assert
their demurrer to the Third Cause of Action as concerns all seven (7)
Defendants.” (Opp’n at p. 6:24-26.) It appears Plaintiff is referring to the
Court’s December 6, 2023 minute order, which provides, inter alia, that “the
Court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to the third cause of action of the SAC for
unjust enrichment as to Carl Cambilargiu, Miriam Weiss, Jessica Weiss, and
Jenna Cambilargiu, with leave to amend. The Court overrules the demurrer to the
third cause of action for unjust enrichment as to Michael Weiss, Barbara
Cambilargiu, and Good Day Gardena Properties. The Court also overrules
Defendants’ demurrer to the fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action of the
SAC.” (December 6, 2023 Minute Order at pp. 19-20.)

            However, the Court notes that
Plaintiff does not appear to cite any legal authority in support of his
assertion that the demurrer should not be considered as to Michael Weiss,
Barbara Cambilargiu, or Good Day (to the extent that is what Plaintiff is
arguing). The Demurring Defendants assert in the reply that “Plaintiff added
substantially new allegations and theories of liability to the [TAC], including
new material allegations against Barbara and Michael. Factual allegations were
reincorporated into each cause of action; thus, all Defendants jointly demurred
and concurrently moved to strike.” (Reply at p. 3:13-15.) The Court also notes
that “[a] party is within its rights to successively
demur to a cause of action in an amended pleading notwithstanding a prior
unsuccessful demurrer to that same cause of action.” ((Carlton v. Dr. Pepper
Snapple Group, Inc. (2014) 228
Cal.App.4th 1200, 1211.) 
The Demurring Defendants first assert that unjust enrichment is not a
valid cause of action under California law. They cite to McBride v. Boughton (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th
379, 387, where the Court
of Appeal noted that “[u]njust
enrichment is not a cause of action, however, or even a remedy, but rather a
general principle, underlying various legal doctrines and remedies…It is synonymous with
restitution.” (Internal quotations omitted.) In the opposition,
Plaintiff asserts that unjust enrichment is a recognized as a cause of
action. Plaintiff cites to Professional Tax Appeal v. Kennedy-Wilson Holdings, Inc. (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th
230, 238, where the Court
of Appeal noted that “[g]enerally, one who is
unjustly enriched at the expense of another is required to make restitution.
The elements of a cause of action for unjust enrichment are simply stated as
receipt of a benefit and unjust retention of the benefit at the expense of another.” (Internal quotations and citations omitted.) Plaintiff
also cites to Lectrodryer v.
Seoulbank (2000)
77 Cal.App.4th 723, 726, where the
Court of Appeal found that “[e]vidence also supported the conclusion that
Lectrodryer satisfied the elements for a claim of unjust enrichment:
receipt of a benefit and unjust retention of the benefit at the expense of
another.” 
            Next, the
Demurring Defendants argue that even if there is a cause of action for
“unjust enrichment,” the demurrer should still be sustained as to the Director
Defendants because Lily Bleu has other adequate remedies at law. The Demurring Defendants
cite to Collins v.
eMachines, Inc. (2011)
202 Cal.App.4th 249, 260, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “[b]ecause
we have found that plaintiffs’ remedies at law are adequate (counts alleged
under the CLRA, the UCL, and common law fraud), a claim for restitution,
alleging that eMachines has
been unjustly enriched by its fraud, is unnecessary. This conclusion follows
from the general principle of equity that equitable relief (such as
restitution) will not be given when the plaintiff’s remedies at law are
adequate.” The Demurring Defendants assert that Lily Bleu “can obtain
full redress for any damages under the other causes of action plead against the
Director Defendants, including breach of fiduciary duty, waste, and the fraud
claims.” (Demurrer at p. 5:6-7.) 
            In
the opposition, Plaintiff asserts that “[i]nsofar as the Defendant Directors
(Michael and Barbara) are concerned, it is submitted that it is premature at
this point to find that there is otherwise an adequate remedy at law.” (Opp’n
at p. 9:5-6.) Plaintiff cites to Ramona Manor Convalescent Hosp. v. Care Enterprises (1986) 177 Cal.App.3d 1120, 1138,
where the Court of Appeal noted that “Care attacks
the unjust enrichment recovery on several bases: that in awarding damages on
both the business torts and the unjust enrichment theory the jury failed to
follow an express instruction of the court; that this is not a proper case for
recovery on the theory of unjust enrichment; that the amount awarded Care on
the unjust enrichment theory is not supported by substantial evidence and that
the matter of unjust enrichment, being equitable in nature, should not have
been submitted to the jury. We have concluded that two of Care’s contentions
are meritorious and dispositive of the validity of the unjust enrichment
recovery. It will therefore be unnecessary for us to resolve Care’s other
contentions on this point…Care is correct the jury failed to obey an express
instruction of the trial court not to make awards both under the tort theories
and the unjust enrichment theory.” The Ramona Manor Court also “concluded that Care is correct that the
circumstances of this case were not appropriate for any recovery under the
theory of unjust enrichment,” and found that “an action for unjust
enrichment is inappropriate in the circumstances of the case at bench because
Ramona can obtain full redress for its loss of profits under its action for [intentional
interference with contractual relations].” (Id.
at pp. 1139-1140.)
            In
the reply, the Demurring Defendants assert that “[t]he adequacy of a
plaintiff’s remedies is properly ascertained at the pleading stages.” (Reply at
p. 4:11-12.) In Collins, the Court of Appeal noted that “[i]n this class
action alleging a failure to disclose a computer defect involving a microchip
that controlled floppy disk data transmission, plaintiffs Tammy Collins and
Rudolph Roma appeal from a judgment on the pleadings. Plaintiffs have alleged
counts under the Consumers Legal Remedies Act (CLRA) (Civil
Code section 1750 et seq.), the unfair competition law (UCL) (Business and Professions Code sections 17200, 17500 et
seq.), common law fraud, and unjust enrichment. We conclude the trial court
erroneously granted judgment on the pleadings without leave to amend, and we
shall reverse on all counts except unjust enrichment.” (Collins v. eMachines, Inc., supra, 202 Cal.App.4th at p. 252.)
The Demurring Defendants emphasize that Collins Court found as follows: 
 
“Because we have found that plaintiffs’ remedies at law are
adequate (counts alleged under the CLRA, the UCL, and common law fraud), a
claim for restitution, alleging that eMachines has been unjustly enriched by its fraud, is unnecessary.
This conclusion follows from the general principle of equity
that equitable relief (such as restitution) will not be given when the
plaintiff’s remedies at law are adequate. (Ramona Manor Convalescent Hospital v. Care Enterprises (1986) 177 Cal.App.3d
1120, 1140 [225 Cal. Rptr. 120]; 1 Witkin, Summary of Cal. Law
(10th ed. 2005) Contracts, §§ 1040–1041, pp.
1130–1132; see also Falk, supra, 496 F.Supp.2d at p. 1099.)
In light of the adequate legal remedies, we conclude the complaint does not
state a claim for restitution based on unjust enrichment.” (Collins v. eMachines, Inc., supra, 202 Cal.App.4th at p. 260 [emphasis
added].) 
            Plaintiff
argues that “Collins v. eMachines, Inc. (2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 249 involved
an appeal from a judgment on the pleadings and is inapposite to the instant
matter involving a demurrer.” (Opp’n at p. 9:11-12.) But the Court does not see
how this makes Collins distinguishable in any meaningful way. As noted
by the Demurring Defendants, the Collins Court stated that “[b]ecause we are reviewing a successful motion for judgment
on the pleadings, and there are no pertinent judicially noticeable facts to
consider, our review is confined to the complaint. We consider independently whether
the complaint states a cause of action, accepting as true all allegations of
material fact but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.”
(Collins v.
eMachines, Inc.,
supra, 202 Cal.App.4th at p. 252 [internal citation omitted].) In
addition, the Court notes that “[a]
motion for judgment on the pleadings performs the same function as a general
demurrer, and hence attacks only defects disclosed on the face of the pleadings
or by matters that can be judicially noticed.” ((Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999.) 
            Based
on the foregoing, the Court sustains the demurrer to the third cause of action
as to the “Defendant Directors,” Michael Weiss and Barbara
Cambilargiu.  
            The
Demurring Defendants assert that as to Carl Cambilargiu, Miriam Weiss, Jenna
Cambilargiu, Jessica Weiss, and Good Day, Lily Bleu “has not shown a better
legal right.” (Demurrer at p. 5:10.) The Demurring Defendants cite to City
of Oakland v. Oakland Raiders
(2022) (?YEAR?) 83
Cal.App.5th 458, 463,
which concerns “a lawsuit filed by the City of Oakland (City) against the National Football League
(the League or the NFL) and its 32 member clubs (collectively, defendants)
after one member club, the Raiders,
relocated from Oakland to Las Vegas. The City alleged defendants did not comply with the process for
approving club relocations set forth in the NFL Constitution and related
documents. The City asserted causes of action for breach
of contract as a third party beneficiary, breach of the implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing, and unjust enrichment.” In City of Oakland, “[t]he City alleged defendants were unjustly enriched by the
increased value of the Raiders following the club’s move to Las Vegas
and by the relocation fee, which the Raiders paid
to the League.” ((Id. at p. 478.) 
As to the unjust enrichment
claim, the Court of Appeal noted that “where someone other than the plaintiff provided the
benefit the defendants allegedly unjustly retained, as between the plaintiff
and the defendant, the plaintiff is entitled to restitution from the defendant
where the plaintiff has a better legal or equitable right. The Restatement cautions that
the requirement the plaintiff demonstrate a better legal or equitable
right to the benefit in question is actually highly restrictive. The plaintiff
must identify a right in the disputed assets that is both recognized, and
accorded priority over the interest of the defendant, under the law of the
jurisdiction. Proof merely that the defendant has received a windfall, that the
[plaintiff] has been ill-treated, and that the third party’s payment to the
defendant (or the defendant’s retention of payment as against the [plaintiff])
violates rules of good faith, basic fairness, or common decency, does not
suffice to make out a claim in restitution.” (City of Oakland v. Oakland Raiders, supra, 83 Cal.App.5th at p. 479 [internal quotations and
citations omitted].) The Court of Appeal found that “the City cannot
show that, as between it and defendants, the City has a
better legal or equitable right to the increased value in the Raiders or to
the relocation fee.” (Id. at p. 479.) 
The Demurring Defendants
assert that here, “even assuming Plaintiff’s remedies at law were not
adequate, Plaintiff’s claims against Non-Director Defendants can not be
maintained because Plaintiff has not met this heightened burden.” (Demurrer at
p. 5:21-23.) 
 In the opposition, Plaintiff counters that “[t]he
facts of the City of Oakland case support Plaintiff’s position, not
defendants in that unlike the case here where the Plaintiff conferred benefits
on Carl, Miriam, Jenna and Jessica, in the City of Oakland case, the
benefit was conferred on the defendants, not by the plaintiff (the City of
Oakland), but rather by a third party; namely, the City of Las Vegas.” (Opp’n
at p. 10:4-7.) Plaintiff asserts that “[i]n the present instance, Lily Bleu
conferred the benefit by which these defendants were unjustly enriched and
seeks the return of same accordingly.” (Opp’n at p. 10:12-13.) 
In the reply, the Demurring Defendants assert that “[i]n the [TAC],
Plaintiff alleges that Lily Bleu’s directors—defendants Michael and
Barbara—caused Lily Bleu to confer benefits on Miriam, Carl, Jessica, Jenna,
and Good Day. In that respect, Plaintiff has misapplied the case law. Case law
holds that when someone other than the plaintiff (here, Barbara/Michael)
provided the benefit the defendants (Carl, Miriam, Jessica, Jenna, Good Day)
allegedly unjustly retained, as between the plaintiff (Lily Bleu) and the
defendant, the plaintiff is entitled to restitution from the defendant where
the plaintiff ‘has a better legal or equitable right.’” (Reply at p. 5:8-14
[emphasis omitted].) 
But the foregoing argument appears to acknowledge that Lily Bleu “provided the benefit the defendants allegedly unjustly
retained…” (City of
Oakland v. Oakland Raiders, supra, 83
Cal.App.5th at p. 479.) Moreover, in the third cause of action for unjust
enrichment, Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants derived
compensation, benefits, fees, reimbursements, payment of personal expenses,
rent, and other benefits from the Company and were otherwise unjustly
enriched during the time in which the wrongful practices alleged herein
occurred, to the Company’s detriment.” (TAC, ¶ 58, emphasis added.)[3]
The Plaintiff in this action is Kenneth Wengrod, Trustee of
The Manhattan Trust, derivatively on behalf of Lily Bleu, Inc. As discussed, the City of Oakland Court found that “[a]s the Restatement explains, where
someone other than the plaintiff provided the benefit the defendants allegedly
unjustly retained, as between the plaintiff and the defendant, the
plaintiff is entitled to restitution from the defendant where the plaintiff has
a better legal or equitable right.” (City of Oakland v. Oakland
Raiders, supra, 83 Cal.App.5th at p.
479 [internal quotations omitted, emphasis added.) The Court does not find
that the Demurring Defendants have shown that such circumstances exist here. 
As to Jessica Weiss and Jenna
Cambilargiu, the Demurring Defendants also assert that “Plaintiff has
impermissibly attempted to insert inconsistent allegations in his verified
pleadings pertaining to the benefits, wages, expenses, reimbursements, travel,
benefits, bonuses, and gifts Daughters obtained from Company in the course of
their employment.” (Demurrer at p. 6:17-20.)
The
Demurring Defendants note that “[t]he general rule…is that material factual allegations in a
verified pleading that are omitted in a subsequent amended pleading without
adequate explanation will be considered by the court in ruling on a demurrer to
the later pleading.” ((Shoemaker v. Myers (1990) 52 Cal.3d 1, 12.) 
The Demurring Defendants note that in the Amended Verified Derivative
Complaint (“FAC”) filed on March 1, 2023, Plaintiff alleges that “Defendant
Directors have failed to disclose to Plaintiff and have paid themselves and the
Daughters salaries, bonuses, other payments, and reimbursement of personal
expenses exceeding the reasonable value of their services to the Company.”
(FAC, ¶ 9.) The FAC further alleges that “Defendant Directors have failed to
disclose to Plaintiff and have paid themselves and the Spouses and Daughters
travel, entertainment, and other expense reimbursements in excess of $95,000
annually which are unreasonable and bear no relationship to the value of these
reimbursements to the Company.” (FAC, ¶ 11.) In addition, the FAC alleges that
“Defendant Directors have failed to disclose to Plaintiff and have arranged to
contribute for the benefit of themselves and the Daughters deferred
compensation and/or profit sharing benefits which are unreasonable in relation
to the compensation reasonably owing to the Defendant Directors and the
Daughters for their services to the Company, to the detriment of the Company.”
(FAC, ¶ 12.) 
The Demurring Defendants assert that in the FAC, “Plaintiff sought to
disgorge legitimate income, benefits, reimbursements, costs, etc. earned by
Daughters in the course of their employment and voluntarily paid by Company.”
(Demurrer at p. 7:2-4.) The Demurring Defendants assert that the “Daughters’
demurrer to the [FAC] evidenced their legal right to all the wages, expenses,
reimbursements, benefits, etc. at issue.” (Demurrer at p. 7:4-5, citing Labor Code sections 221 and 2802.) 
            Labor Code section 221, cited
by the Demurring Defendants, provides that “[i]t
shall be unlawful for any employer to collect or receive from an employee any
part of wages theretofore paid by said employer to said employee.” In addition,
Labor Code section 2802, cited by the
Demurring Defendants, provides that “[a]n employer
shall indemnify his or her employee for all necessary expenditures or losses
incurred by the employee in direct consequence of the discharge of his or her
duties, or of his or her obedience to the directions of the employer, even
though unlawful, unless the employee, at the time of obeying the directions,
believed them to be unlawful.” (Lab. Code, § 2802, subd. (a).)  
            The
Demurring Defendants argue that “[t]o circumvent the defects,
Plaintiff amended and materially changed the allegations in the [Second Amended
Complaint]. Plaintiff alleged that the exact same salaries, compensation,
benefits, expenses, reimbursements, travel, gifts, etc. alleged in the [FAC] to
be ‘unreasonable in relation to the compensation’ of Daughters were really
completely ‘unrelated to any employment activities’ with Company were ‘unearned
and/or not wages.’” (Demurrer at p. 7:6-10.) Defendants point to paragraph 11
of the Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”), which alleges that “Defendant
Directors also failed to disclose to [Lily Bleu] and its shareholders that they
paid personal travel, personal entertainment, and other personal expenses of
the Daughters and Spouses that are unrelated to any employment activities for
[Lily Bleu].” (SAC, ¶ 11.) Plaintiff also points to paragraph 17 of the SAC
which references an alleged “payment to Jenna Cambilargiu of wages that were
not earned, gifts, and reimbursement of her travel and personal expenses that
were unrelated to the Company; (4) the payment to Jessica Weiss Sonnabend of
wages that were not earned, medical and dental benefits that were not earned
and/or not wages, and reimbursement of her travel and personal expenses that
were unrelated to the Company…” (SAC, ¶ 17.) 
            The
Demurring Defendants assert “Plaintiff’s [TAC] reasserts the
material inconsistencies advanced in the [SAC].” (Demurrer at p. 7:15-16.) The
Demurring Defendants point to the allegation in the TAC that “the Defendant
Directors also caused the Company to pay Jenna Cambilargiu wages that were not
earned, gifts, and reimbursement of personal expenses that were unrelated to
any employment activities for the Company, which amount aggregated to not less
than $150,973.” (TAC, ¶ 20.) The TAC further alleges that “the Defendant
Directors also caused the Company to pay Jessica Weiss Sonnabend wages that
were not earned, medical and dental benefits that were not earned and/or not
wages, and reimbursement of personal expenses that were unrelated to any
employment activities for the Company, which amount aggregated to not less than
$62,692.” (TAC, ¶ 21.)  
            The Demurring Defendants assert that
“[t]he same expenses, salaries, travel, reimbursements, gifts and other
benefits which Plaintiff previously alleged under oath in the [FAC] as related
to Daughters’ employment with Company are alleged to be unrelated to Daughters’
employment with the Company in the [SAC] and [TAC]. The allegations in the
[SAC] and [TAC] can not be accepted as true because they are contradicted and
are inconsistent with the facts in the [FAC].” (Demurrer at p. 7:21-25.) 
            In Sanai v. Saltz
(2009) 170 Cal.App.4th
746, 768-769, discussed in
the Court’s December 6, 2023 minute order, the Court of Appeal noted that “[w]here
a verified complaint contains allegations destructive of a cause of action, the
defect cannot be cured in subsequently filed pleadings by simply omitting such
allegations without explanation…In such a case the original defect infects the subsequent pleading
so as to render it vulnerable to a demurrer…However, we have also made it clear
that a party should be allowed to correct a pleading by omitting an allegation
which, it appears, was made as the result of mistake or inadvertence.” (Internal
quotations omitted.)
            In the opposition, Plaintiff asserts
that “Plaintiff has made modest and consistent (not inconsistent)
allegations to clear up any potential uncertainty by setting forth allegations
to address the specific acts and damages as being attributable specifically to
each of the non-Director Defendants.” (Opp’n at p. 10:25-27.) But Plaintiff
does not appear to address the specific arguments pertaining to Jessica Weiss and Jenna Cambilargiu
discussed above. In addition, Plaintiff does not appear to argue that any allegations
of the FAC were made as the result of mistake or inadvertence. 
As to Miriam Weiss and Carl Cambilargiu, the Demurring Defendants cite
to 
McBride v. Boughton, supra, 123 Cal.App.4th at page 388, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[t]here are several potential bases for a cause of action
seeking restitution. For example, restitution may be awarded in lieu of breach
of contract damages when the parties had an express contract, but it was
procured by fraud or is unenforceable or ineffective for some reason. Alternatively, restitution may
be awarded where the defendant obtained a benefit from the plaintiff by fraud,
duress, conversion, or similar conduct. In such cases, the plaintiff may choose
not to sue in tort, but instead to seek restitution on a quasi-contract theory...”
(Internal citations omitted.) The Demurring Defendants assert that here, “Plaintiff
has not established a quasi contract between Company and Spouses. Plaintiff has
also not plead facts that Spouses ‘obtained a benefit from the plaintiff by
fraud, duress, conversion, or similar conduct and the plaintiff chooses not to
sue in tort but to seek restitution on a quasi-contract theory.’…Plaintiff has
alleged only that Director Defendants engaged in fraud when conveying the
benefits on Spouses, but not that Spouses engaged in any such actions.”
(Demurrer at p. 9:9-14.) Plaintiff does not appear to address or dispute this
point in the opposition. 
As to Good Day, the
Demurring Defendants argue that “[f]or restitution, Plaintiff must evidence
facts that…Good Day induced [Lily Bleu] into entering into a contract that was
somehow unenforceable…After four attempts, Plaintiff has still not met this
pleading burden.” (Demurrer at p. 10:5-8.) As set forth above, in McBride v. Boughton, supra, 123 Cal.App.4th at page 388, cited by the Demurring Defendants, the Court of
Appeal found that “restitution may be
awarded in lieu of breach of contract damages when the parties had an express
contract, but it was procured by fraud or is unenforceable or ineffective for
some reason.” Plaintiff also does not appear to address or dispute this
point in the opposition.
Based on the foregoing, the Court also sustains the demurrer to the
third cause of action as to as to Carl Cambilargiu, Miriam Weiss, Jessica Weiss,
Jenna Cambilargiu, and Good Day. 
Motion to Strike 
A
court may strike any “¿irrelevant, false, or improper
matter¿inserted in any pleading¿” or any part of
a pleading “¿not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.¿” (¿Code Civ. Proc., § 436¿.) “¿The grounds for
a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from
any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice.¿” (¿Code Civ. Proc., § 437¿.)   
In the
motion, the Demurring Defendants cite to People ex
rel. Dept. Pub. Wks. v. Clausen (1967) 248
Cal.App.2d 770, 785¿, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “where the pleader, under¿¿section 473¿, seeks leave to
amend in the form of adding new parties and the trial court grants him leave to
amend, naturally such a broad grant to amend includes permission to¿add new
parties…This situation is, however, different from the situation where the
trial court sustains a demurrer to a pleading but grants leave to amend. In
such a situation the granting of leave to amend is not a sanctioning of a particular
amendment which the pleader has submitted to the trial court. Rather, as
pointed out in¿Taliaferro, such granting of leave to amend must be
construed as permission to the pleader to amend the cause of action which he
pleaded in the pleading to which the demurrer has been sustained.” 
The
Demurring Defendants also cite to Community Water Coalition v.
Santa Cruz County Local Agency Formation Com. (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th
1317, 1329, where the Court of Appeal found that ‘[w]hen the trial court sustained respondents’ demurrer the
court granted leave to allow appellant to incorporate the legislative history
of section 56133 into its pleading. The ruling was
in response to appellant’s counsel’s request to, ‘make the record clear as to
what the basis of our position is.’ Instead, the amendment added a new cause of
action, naming a new defendant (City), and alleging facts unrelated to the
interpretation of section 56133.
Accordingly, the trial court correctly granted the motion to strike the
new cause of action because it was ‘not drawn or filed in conformity with … an
order of the court.’ (Code of Civil Procedure section
436, subdivision (b).)” 
As set
forth above, on December 6, 2023, the Court issued a minute order in this
action providing, inter alia, that “the Court sustains
Defendants’ demurrer to the third cause of action of the SAC for unjust
enrichment as to Carl Cambilargiu, Miriam Weiss, Jessica Weiss, and Jenna
Cambilargiu, with leave to amend. The Court overrules the demurrer to the third
cause of action for unjust enrichment as to Michael Weiss, Barbara Cambilargiu,
and Good Day. The Court also overrules Defendants’ demurrer to the fourth,
fifth, and sixth causes of action of the SAC. The Court grants Defendants
motion to strike in part, with leave to amend, and denies the motion to strike
in part, as set forth above.” (December 6, 2023 minute order at pp. 19-20.) The Demurring Defendants
assert that “[t]he [TAC] contains new factual allegations which
are beyond the scope of this Court’s December 7 2023 [sic] Order sustaining
Defendants’ demurrer to the [SAC].” (Mot. at p. 4:6-7.) The Demurring
defendants assert that “[t]he [TAC] alleges new claims and material facts which
are wholly unrelated to Daughters or Spouses, or Plaintiff’s claim against them
for Unjust Enrichment.” (Mot. at p. 4:16-18.)
The Demurring Defendant assert that new allegations
set forth in paragraphs 14 and 46 of the TAC are
“unrelated to the unjust enrichment claim against Daughters or Spouses.” (Mot.
at pp. 4:20-21; 5:2-3.) 
Paragraph 46 of the TAC alleges
that “[t]he Company has had three (3) shareholders at all relevant
times. The Company has failed to fill a third seat on the Board of Director
[sic]. Plaintiff maintains that the Defendant Directors have failed to fill a
third Board seat in knowing dereliction of their responsibilities to do so, as
mandated by California Corporations Code Section 212(a).
By failing to fill a third Board seat, it has facilitated opportunity for the
Defendant Directors to take actions in violation of their fiduciary duties to
the Company, among other matters.” (TAC, ¶ 46.) As noted by the Demurring
Defendants, the first cause of action of the SAC for breach of fiduciary duty
was not subject to demurrer. (See December 6, 2023 Order.) The Court
agrees with the Demurring Defendants that paragraph 46
of the TAC is thus “not drawn or filed in
conformity with…an order of the court.” ((Community Water
Coalition v. Santa Cruz County Local Agency Formation Com., supra, at p. 1329 [internal
quotations omitted].)[4] Thus, the Court grants the
motion to strike as to paragraph 46 of the TAC.
Paragraph 14 of the TAC
alleges that “Plaintiff is informed and believes, and upon such
information alleges, that for many years, spanning well over a decade, the
Defendant Directors, acting on behalf of the Board of Directors, have engaged
in a variety of wrongful actions, as described herein, all of which have
provided the Defendant Directors and/or their respective family members, with
compensation reimbursement and/or payment of personal expenses, which amounts
were excessive and unreasonable when viewed in the context of the reasonable
value of the services of the Board Directors, whether as directors or executive
officers of the Company.” (TAC, ¶ 14.) The Court finds that
this allegation is related to the unjust enrichment cause of action, and is
within the scope of the amendment authorized by the December 6, 2023 minute
order. As discussed, the unjust enrichment cause of action alleges that “Defendants
derived compensation, benefits, fees, reimbursements, payment of personal
expenses, rent, and other benefits from the Company and were otherwise unjustly
enriched during the time in which the wrongful practices alleged herein
occurred, to the Company’s detriment.” (TAC, ¶ 58.) Thus, the Court denies the
motion to strike as to paragraph 14 of the TAC. 
The Demurring Defendants also assert that paragraphs 11, 15, 17, and 18 of the TAC are “beyond the scope of amendment.” (See
Mot. at pp. 5:17-7:7.) The Court agrees that these allegations are beyond the
scope of the amendment authorized in the Court’s December 6, 2023 minute order.
Thus, the Court grants the Demurring Defendants motion to strike the following
allegations identified in the notice of motion: 
1.    
Paragraph 11, pg. 3, at lines 15-16, the words
“alter ego”, “joint venturers and/or copartners”
2.    
Paragraph 11, pg. 3, at lines 16-17, the phrase
“carrying out the wrongful conduct alleged herein”.
3.    
Paragraph 11, pg. 3, at lines 18-19, the
phrase/words “the permission, authority, consent and ratification”.
4.    
Paragraph 15 at pgs. 4-5, in its entirety.
5.    
Paragraph 17 at pg. 5, in its entirety. 
6.     Paragraph
18 at p. 5, in its entirety.
The Demurring Defendants also assert that “substitution of language in
allegations as to Good Day…are beyond the scope of the amendment.” (Mot. at p.
7:8-9.) It appears the Demurring Defendants mistakenly refer to paragraph 25 of the TAC in heading “G” of the motion. The
Demurring Defendants appear to argue that paragraph 44 should be stricken as
beyond the scope of the amendment. Paragraph 44 alleges that “Plaintiff is
informed and believes, and upon the basis of such information and belief
alleges, that amounts paid by the Company to rent and maintain the Facility
exceeded the fair rental value of the Facility, to the ultimate benefit of
Defendant Directors, and to the detriment of the Company. Plaintiff is informed
and believes, and upon the basis of such information and belief alleges, that
this conduct has also been ongoing since the filing of the Complaint herein.”
(TAC, ¶ 44.) 
The Demurring Defendants assert that “the changes are related to the
claims against Good Day, not Spouses or Daughters. These new allegations were
not drawn in conformity with the Court’s Order and are properly stricken.”
(Mot. at pp. 7:28-8:2.) However, the Court notes that paragraph 44 of the TAC appears almost identical to paragraph
30 of the SAC, which alleges that “Plaintiff is informed and believes that
amounts paid by the Company to rent and maintain the Facility exceed the rental
value of the Facility, to the ultimate benefit of Defendant Directors, and to
the detriment of the Company. Plaintiff is informed and believes that this
conduct has also been ongoing since the filing of the Complaint herein.” (SAC,
¶ 30.) The Court does not find that the Demurring Defendants have shown that
paragraph 44 of the TAC should be stricken, and
the Court denies the motion to strike this paragraph and allegations therein. 
The Demurring Defendants also assert that “inconsistencies in the
[TAC] should be stricken.” (Mot. at p. 8:3.) The Demurring Defendants cite to Sanai v. Saltz, supra, 170
Cal.App.4th at pages 768-769, which, as discussed above, provides that “[w]here a verified complaint contains allegations
destructive of a cause of action, the defect cannot be cured in subsequently
filed pleadings by simply omitting such allegations without explanation…In such a case the original
defect infects the subsequent pleading so as to render it vulnerable to a
demurrer…However, we have also made it clear that a party should be allowed to
correct a pleading by omitting an allegation which, it appears, was made as the
result of mistake or inadvertence.” (Internal quotations omitted.)
In
the motion to strike, the Demurring Defendants assert that the “the
[TAC] reasserts the material inconsistencies advanced in the [SAC]. Like the
[SAC], the [TAC] alleges that Company paid ‘Jenna Cambilargiu wages that were
not earned, gifts, and reimbursement of personal expenses that were unrelated
to any employment activities for the Company, which amount aggregated to not
less than $150,973.’ ([TAC] ¶ 20, p. 6:3-6.) The [TAC] also restates the same
inconsistencies as to Jessica Weiss Sonnabend. ([TAC] ¶ 21, p. 6:10-13.).”
(Mot. at p. 10:20-24.) This argument is addressed above in connection with the
Demurring Defendants’ demurrer, and as discussed above, the Court sustains the
demurrer to the third cause of action as to Jenna Cambilargiu and Jessica
Weiss. The Court thus grants the motion to strike as to paragraphs 20 and 21 of the TAC. 
The Demurring Defendants also
assert that allegations of the fourth and fifth causes of action of the TAC are
inconsistent with the FAC. The Demurring Defendants point to paragraph 64 of the TAC, which alleges, inter alia, that
“[t]he Defendant Directors failed to disclose to the Company and its
shareholders that:… (3) they purportedly employed the Daughters and paid them
unearned wages, and reimbursed their personal expenses that were unrelated to
the Company; (4) they paid unearned medical, dental, retirement and other
benefits to Jessica Weiss Sonnabend…” (TAC, ¶ 64.) The Demurring Defendants
also point to paragraph 70 of the TAC, which
alleges in part that “[t]he representations were false, among other reasons,
because they did not include and/or describe the sums the Defendant Directors
paid themselves for their personal expenses, the personal expenses paid to/for
their Spouses and Daughters, or reveal that they paid unearned wages to the
Daughters and unearned benefits to the Jessica.” (TAC, ¶ 70.)
The Demurring Defendants point to paragraph 9
of the FAC, which alleges (as discussed) that “Defendant Directors have
failed to disclose to Plaintiff and have paid themselves and the Daughters
salaries, bonuses, other payments, and reimbursement of personal expenses
exceeding the reasonable value of their services to the Company.” (FAC, ¶ 9.) The
Demurring Defendants also point to paragraph 12 of the
FAC, which alleges, inter alia, that “Defendant Directors have
failed to disclose to Plaintiff and have arranged to contribute for the benefit
of themselves and the Daughters deferred compensation and/or profit sharing
benefits which are unreasonable in relation to the compensation reasonably
owing to the Defendant Directors and the Daughters for their services to the
Company, to the detriment of the Company.” (FAC, ¶ 12.) 
The Demurring Defendants assert that “the inconsistent allegations can
not be reconciled and have not been adequately explained. The alleged salaries,
benefits, expenses, reimbursements, travel, and all other benefits were
‘unreasonable in relation to the compensation’ and services Daughters provided
Company…See [FAC] ¶ 9…Now, these same payments to Daughters are ‘unrelated now [sic]
‘employment activities’ at Lily Blue and were ‘unearned and/or not wages.’”
(Mot. at pp. 11:25-12:2.) 
This argument is addressed above in connection with the Demurring
Defendants’ demurrer, and as discussed above, the Court sustains the demurrer
to the third cause of action as to Jenna Cambilargiu and Jessica Weiss. The
Court thus grants the motion to strike as to paragraph 64, p. 13, lines 9-11 of the TAC; and as to Paragraph 70, p. 14, lines
22-23 of the TAC, specifically, the phrase,
“personal expenses paid to/from [. . . ] Daughters, or reveal that they paid
unearned wages to Daughters and unearned benefits to Jessica.”
Lastly, the Court notes that the Demurring Defendants seek to strike a
number of allegations that are not discussed in the Demurring Defendants’
memorandum of points and authorities in support of the motion to strike. (See
Mot. at p. 2-3.) No argument appears to be
provided as to why certain allegations should be stricken, specifically the
allegations referenced in paragraphs 11, 12, 13, 18, 20, 21, and 22 on pages
2-3 of the motion to strike. Thus, the Court denies the motion to strike these
allegations. The Court also denies the Demurring Defendants’ motion to strike
the third cause of action of the TAC in its entirety as moot. 
Conclusion 
Based on the foregoing, the
Court sustains the Demurring Defendants’ demurrer to 
the third cause of action for unjust enrichment, without
leave to amend. As discussed, the Demurring
Defendants demurred to this cause of action in the SAC. (See December 6,
2023 minute order.) In addition, Plaintiff has not demonstrated any specific way to amend this cause of
action to cure the defects discussed above. Accordingly, the Court finds
that it is appropriate to sustain the demurrer to the third cause of action
without leave to amend.  
The Court grants the Demurring Defendants’ motion to
strike in part, without leave to amend, and denies the motion to strike in
part, as set forth above. Plaintiff
has not demonstrated any way to amend the defects discussed above in connection with the motion
to strike.[5] 
The Court orders Carl
Cambilargiu, Miriam Weiss, Jenna Cambilargiu, Jessica Weiss, and Good Day to file and serve a proposed
judgment of dismissal within 10 days of the date of this order.[6]¿
The Court
orders Michael Weiss and Barbara Cambilargiu to serve their
answer(s) to the TAC within 10 days of the date of this Order.¿¿ 
The Demurring Defendants are
ordered to give notice of this order.¿  
 
DATED:  May 6, 2024                                   ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 


