  Case Number:  23STCV11670    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  57 Plaintiff
Wol H. Ahn by and through her daughter and guardian ad litem Sun Hee Ahn sued Defendant
Burlington Convalescent Hospital, Inc. (“Burlington)” for negligence, willful misconduct,
elder abuse, and violation of patient rights arising out of injuries that Wol
allegedly suffered while residing at Burlington.[1]  Pending before the Court is Burlington’s
motion to compel arbitration of Wol’s claims under a Resident-Facility
Arbitration Agreement (“the Arbitration Agreement”) that Sun Hee signed when
Wol was admitted to Burlington.  For the
reasons stated below, the Court is denying Burlington’s motion to compel
arbitration.  The Court also is advancing
to today Burlington’s corresponding motion to stay proceedings in this Court pending
resolution of the arbitration and denying that motion as well.[2]
The
Arbitration Agreement plainly covers Wol’s claims against Burlington.  The problem for Burlington is that Wol did
not sign the Arbitration Agreement herself, and Sun Hee lacked authority to
sign the Arbitration Agreement on Wol’s behalf.  Therefore, the Arbitration Agreement is unenforceable
against Wol.  Burlington’s arguments to
the contrary are unavailing.
First,
Burlington argues that a document styled “Statement of Authority to Act on
Behalf of Resident” (“Statement of Authority”) shows that Sun Hee was authorized
to sign the Arbitration Agreement on Wol’s behalf.  It does not. 
 The Statement of Authority recites
the existence of an agency relationship between the agent/person signing the
document, on the one hand, and the resident of Burlington, on the other hand.  But in the blank line at the very top of the Statement
of Authority listing who the agent is, Wol’s name is filled in and identified as
the agent, not Sun Hee.  The identification
of Wol as the agent means that the Statement of Authority does not manifest Sun
Hee’s authority to act as an agent on Wol’s behalf.
Second, Burlington
points to a form known as a POLST (Physicians Orders For Life Sustaining
Treatment) that Sun Hee signed.  It purports
to give Sun Hee authority to make certain medical decisions for Wol.  Wol did not sign the POLST herself.  Whether medical providers can honor the POLST
in the absence of the patient’s signature on that form is not before the Court.  But even if the answer to that question is
yes, the POLST does not demonstrate that Sun Hee had authority to sign the
Arbitration Agreement on Wol’s behalf.
Third, Burlington
relies on principles governing the ostensible authority of agent to act on
behalf of a principal to support its argument that Sun Hee had authority to
sign the Arbitration Agreement for Wol. 
These principles are of no utility to Burlington.   
Ostensible
authority may be found based on “some intentional conduct or neglect on the
part of the alleged principal creating a belief in the minds of third persons
that an agency exists, and a reasonable reliance thereon by such third
persons."  (Flores v. Evergreen
at San Diego, LLC (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 581, 588.)  Burlington’s motion to compel arbitration  is not based on some action of the principal, Wol,
creating the belief in the minds of third persons at Burlington that the
purported agent, Sun Hee, had authority to act on Wol’s behalf.  Rather, Burlington’s motion is based on the
actions of Sun Hee in signing the Arbitration Agreement  and POLST and suggesting to Burlington that
she had the authority to act on Wol’s behalf. 
But the case law is clear: actions of the purported agent, alone, are
insufficient to establish ostensible authority. 
(Id. at pp. 587-588.)  Flores
is particularly instructive because the Court
of Appeal in that case applied ostensible authority principles in affirming an
order denying a motion to compel arbitration of the plaintiff’s claims against
a skilled nursing facility.  The
purported agent in Flores, who was the plaintiff’s husband, signed the
arbitration agreement in question.  (Flores,
supra, 148 Cal.App.4th at p.585.) 
The Court of Appeal held that (1) there was no evidence of any action of
the plaintiff that would give third parties the impression that the husband had
ostensible authority to bind the plaintiff to the arbitration agreement, and
(2) the actions of plaintiff’s husband in signing the agreement and, according
to the defendant, acting as if he was the plaintiff’s agent, was insufficient
to support the proposition that the husband had ostensible authority to bind
the plaintiff to it.  (Id. at pp.
588-589.)  Pagarigan v. Libby Care
Center, Inc. (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 298, parallels Flores.  Like in Flores, the Court of Appeal in
Pagarigan affirmed an order denying a motion to compel to arbitration of
the plaintiff’s claims against a skilled nursing facility.  And like in Flores, the motion to
compel arbitration in Pagarigan was based on the supposition that the
plaintiff’s family members who signed the arbitration agreement in question had
ostensible authority to bind the plaintiff to the agreement because of the
family’s actions that created an impression in the minds of the facility that
they had that authority.  The Court of Appeal
rejected that supposition on the ground that the plaintiff  herself had not taken any actions that would
give the facility the impression that her family members had ostensible authority
to act on her behalf.  (Id. at pp.
300-302.) 
 Finally,
it bears noting that Burlington does not argue that Sun Hee had
authority to sign the Arbitration Agreement on Wol’s behalf through a power of
attorney that Wol executed.  Nor could
Burlington make such an argument.  That
is because a document submitted along with the motion to compel arbitration
that is styled “Resident Agent Information” states flat out that Sun Hee does
not have a power of attorney to act on Wol’s behalf.  To be sure, Sun Hee is Wol’s guardian ad
litem.  But Sun Hee was appointed
guardian ad litem in connection with the filing of the lawsuit against
Burlington.  Sun Hee was not Wol’s
guardian ad litem when Wol was admitted to Burlington.
 
 


