  Case Number:  23VECV02319    Hearing Date:   August 21, 2024    Dept:  T  
CALTON V PAYQWICK
23VECV02319
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Green Check Verified, Inc.’s Motion
to Stay and Quash the Deposition of Jonathan Lee as the representative of the
Department of Financial Protection and Innovation is GRANTED.
Defendant PayQwick, Inc.’s
Request for Joinder is GRANTED.
Introduction 
Defendant Green Check Verified,
Inc. (Defendant or GCV) moved to quash the deposition of Jonathan Lee
(Deponent), as the representative of Non-Party Department of Financial
Protection and Innovation (DFPI), and /or for a protective order prohibiting
Plaintiff Morgan Calton (Plaintiff) from enforcing the subpoena.  Alternatively, Defendant  requested the Court to modify the subpoena to
request only documents in Deponent’s possession, custody, or control reflecting
any documents that include reference to Plaintiff.  
Defendant PayQwick, Inc.
(PayQwick) requested joinder to the instant motion.  
Non-party DFPI filed a brief in
support of the instant motion.  
Procedure 
The deposition subpoena is
procedurally defective because it sought to depose an entity, DFPI, but then it
expressly named the deponent from the DFPI to be deposed, Jonathon Lee.  Subpoenas directed to an entity make the
entity the deponent, not a specific person. 
It is the entity who determines the person most qualified to testify on
its behalf regarding the topics listed in the subpoena.  (Code Civ. Proc., secs. 2025.230 and
2020.310(e).)  On this defect alone,
there is good cause to quash and stay the subpoena.  However, the Court reviewed the substantive
arguments presented in the briefs.  
Discussion 
A court may modify or quash a
subpoena entirely or partially, and issue an order to protect parties,
witnesses or consumers from unreasonable or oppressive demands including
violations of privacy.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
sec. 1987.1.)  Courts may also enter
protective orders limiting depositions. 
(Code Civ. Proc., sec. 2025.240(b).) 
Moving parties have the burden to show good cause for protective
orders.  (Emerson Electric Co. v.
Superior Court (1997) 16 Cal.4th 1101, 1110.) 
The Third Amended Complaint (TAC) alleged that DFPI required GCV to not
make material changes to PayQwick’s business operations, including terminating
PayQwick’s employees, in connection with the merger and DFPI conditioned the
merger upon the prohibition related to termination of employees.  (TAC pars. 33-35.)  The first four topics relate to GCV’s
acquisition of PayQwick and DFPI’s regulatory actions over the
acquisition.  The fifth and sixth topics
revolve around an August 18, 2023 Order issued by DFPI.  
Defendant argued that the
subpoena is unreasonable and/or irrelevant and will not lead to admissible
evidence because the basis for the demand, as alleged in the TAC, is
unfounded.  Defendant disputed that
DFPI’s August 18, 2023 Order conditioned GCV’s acquisition of PayQwick or
prohibited GCV from terminating PayQwick employees.  The statutes dictating the authority of the
DFPI provide that DFPI’s commissioner cannot approve an application to acquire
a licensee if “[t]he applicant's plans, if any, to make any major change in the
business, corporate structure, or management of the licensee are not
detrimental to the safety and soundness of the licensee.”  (Fin. Code, sec. 2035(b)(4).)  Plaintiff’s contention that the phrase “make
any major change in the business” is interpreted to mean changes in staffing
levels.  However, Plaintiff presented no
legal authority to show that “business” is the equivalent of “staffing
level.”  This statute is within the Money
Transmission Act (Fin. Code, secs. 2000 et seq) and the Act sought to regulate
the business of money transmissions. 
(Fin. Code, secs. 2001 and 2002.) 
As such, the Court interpreted Financial Code, section 2035(b)(4) so as
to authorize the commissioner to deny an application if the applicant made a
major change in the licensee’s “business” of money transmission and not
“staffing levels.”  Plaintiff’s citation
to Financial Code, section 2035(b)(4) to support the subpoena topics is found
to be unreasonable.
Plaintiff argued that the August
18, 2023 Order was also grounds to show that DFPI prohibited the termination of
PayQwick employees.  The DFPI is
authorized to issue orders directing compliance with any law or discontinue
illegal practices or discontinue any unsafe or injurious practices.  (Fin. Code, sec. 2148(a).)  Under the authority to issue such orders,
DFPI issued the August 18, 2023 Order, which provided:  “Within sixty (60) days of the date of this
Order, Respondent shall complete an assessment of its staffing needs and
increase the staff level if needed to ensure business continuity in case of
departure of personnel.”  (See DFPI
Brief, Exh. A, par. 8.)  A plain reading
of the August 18, 2023 Order shows that Plaintiff’s contention is unsupported
by facts.  The August 18, 2023 Order did
not condition the acquisition/merger on retaining PayQwick’s employees (or more
specifically, non-managerial employees). 
Plaintiff misinterpreted the August 18, 2023 Order.  The Order merely required GCV to assess their
staffing needs and increase staffing levels if needed.  Nothing in the August 18, 2023 Order
prohibited the termination of employees or conditioned the merger/acquisition
upon retention of PayQwick’s employees. 
Plaintiff’s reliance upon the August 18, 2023 Order is unreasonable to
support the demands in the subpoena.  
The Court finds Defendant’s
arguments persuasive.  
Plaintiff argued that the topics
in the subpoena are based upon allegations found in another action filed by
Cynthia Galas.  However, allegations in a
separate action are irrelevant to the issues presented in Plaintiff’s TAC and
discovery that stems from the claims made in Plaintiff’s TAC.  Arguments related to Cynthia Galas’ Complaint
are unpersuasive.
Plaintiff argued that they
narrowed the scope of the topics during meet and confer meetings.  However, even if Plaintiff narrowed the
topics to limit the discovery to information regarding a DFPI directive,
regulatory order, or expectation that it would not effectuate a plan to
terminate all personnel.  However, as
reviewed above, DFPI is not seen to have any authority to issue such a
directive, order, or expectation to control plans to terminate employees.  The offer to narrow the scope of the topics
is insufficient to enforce the subpoena.
The Court further notes that the
topics identified in the subpoena are broad in scope and a plain reading of the
topics shows that the questioning of the deponent could include discussions of
confidential/private or privileged information or trade secrets.  However, without privilege logs or additional
admissible facts, any review of these objections would be speculative and
rulings would be in the abstract. 
Arguments related to confidentiality, privacy, trade secret, and
privilege are unpersuasive.  
In any event, the topics in the
subpoena are found to be unreasonable and the motion to quash and stay
enforcement of the subpoena is GRANTED.  
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.