  Case Number:  23TRCV01058    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  P Defendant’s  Motion for Summary Judgment   Moving Party: Defendant City of Hawthorne             Responding Party: Plaintiff Beverly Bergeron   RULING   The court  considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply. Defendant’s motion for  summary judgment is DENIED.PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND   On April 6, 2023, Plaintiff Beverly Bergeron (“Plaintiff”) filed a  complaint against City of Hawthorne (“Defendant”), Golden State Water Company  (“Golden State”), California Water Service Company ("California Water”),  Southern California Edison Company ("Edison”), and DOES 1-50, alleging  causes of action for (1) Negligence and (2) Premises Liability.   On May 9, 2023, Defendant filed an answer. The next day, Defendant filed  a cross-complaint. On October 23, 2024, Defendant filed the instant motion for summary  judgment. On December 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On January 3,  2024, Defendant filed a reply.   FACTUAL BACKGROUND   On May 26,  2022, Plaintiff was walking north on a sidewalk adjacent to 12130 Birch Avenue  in Hawthorne, California when she tripped on an uplift at the junction of a  water meter vault and sidewalk concrete slab, causing her to fall. (PUMF Nos.  1-3.) The subject sidewalk generally runs north to south. (PUMF No. 6.) The  concrete slab adjacent to the east was higher than the southern slab, creating  an elevation change for pedestrians walking north. (PUMF No. 6.) Plaintiff was  walking and talking and did not look down at the sidewalk, as the weather was  clear, and she thought the sidewalk was safe. (PUMF Nos. 4-5.)   The  subject condition around the time of the accident was free of crumbling  concrete, but the area immediately next to the subject condition showed  crumbling concrete. (PUMF No. 7.) The estimated height of the elevation change  is between 1.00 and 1.63 inches. (PUMF No. 10.) Shadows from a nearby fence  often fell on the sidewalk so as to conceal potential defects. (PUMF No. 11.)   Prior to  Plaintiff’s accident, Defendant did not have notice of any other trip and fall  accidents at the subject location. (PUMF No. 13.) However, Defendant’s  employees were regularly present in the immediate area. (PAUMF No. 4.)   LEGAL STANDARD             In reviewing a motion for summary judgment, courts must apply a  three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2)  determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3)  determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable,  material factual issue.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135  Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)    “[T]he initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie  showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B.  Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for  summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing  that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more  elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a  complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.  (p)(2).) A moving defendant need not conclusively negate an element of  plaintiff’s cause of action. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)  25 Cal.4th 826, 854.)    To meet this burden of showing a cause of action cannot be established, a  defendant must show not only “that the plaintiff does not possess needed  evidence” but also that “the plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain needed  evidence.” (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 854.) It is  insufficient for the defendant to merely point out the absence of evidence (Gaggero  v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891.) The defendant “must also produce  evidence that the plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain evidence to support his or  her claim.” (Ibid.) The supporting evidence can be in the form of  affidavits, declarations, admissions, depositions, answers to interrogatories,  and matters of which judicial notice may be taken. (Aguilar, supra,  25 Cal.4th at p. 855.)   “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the  plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts  exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., §  437c, subd. (p)(2).) The plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations or  denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists,  but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue  of material fact exists as to the cause of action.”  (Ibid.) “If the  plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center  (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)     DISCUSSION               Evidentiary Objections   Plaintiff objects to paragraph 10 of the Blanchette Declaration as an  improper legal conclusion by an expert witness as to whether a dangerous  condition existed.    Plaintiff’s objection is SUSTAINED.   Moving Party’s Argument   Defendant argues that the elevation change in the sidewalk was so minor  that it cannot be considered a dangerous condition under Gov. Code section 835.  Further, Plaintiff cannot argue that Defendant had constructive or actual  notice of the defect.   Opposing Party’s Argument   Plaintiff argues that there is a factual dispute as to the height of the  sidewalk at the time of her accident and there were aggravating factors which  increased the danger of the defect. Evidence shows that the defect existed as  early as 2016, which is sufficient time for Defendant to be imputed with  constructive knowledge. Plaintiff also argues that she is entitled to a  favorable inference, as Defendant spoliated evidence. Further, the motion must  be denied in its entirety, as Defendant did not seek summary adjudication of  any issue.   Reply Argument   Plaintiff has not offered any evidence that there were aggravating  factors which made the defect more dangerous, nor has she offered any evidence  that Defendant had constructive notice, as the 2016 image does not prove that  the sidewalk was in the same condition in 2022. Defendant’s actions taken after  Plaintiff’s accident are not admissible, pursuant to Gov. Code section 830.5,  subd. (b), as they were subsequent remedial measures.   Merits of the Motion   A.  Existence of a Dangerous  Condition   To hold a public entity liable for injury caused by a dangerous  condition, a plaintiff must prove (1) that the property was a dangerous  condition at the time of the injury, (2) that the injury was proximately caused  by the dangerous condition, (3) that the dangerous condition created a  reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury which was incurred, and (4)  that either a negligent or wrongful act or omission of an employee of the  public entity within the scope of his employment created the dangerous condition  or the public entity had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous  condition and sufficient time prior to the injury to have taken measures to  protect against the dangerous condition. (Gov. Code, § 835.) A condition is not  a dangerous condition if, viewing the evidence most favorably to the plaintiff,  the risk created by the condition was of such a minor, trivial, or  insignificant nature in view of the surrounding circumstances that no  reasonable person would conclude that the condition created a substantial risk  of injury when used with due care in a manner in which it was reasonably  foreseeable that it would be used. (Gov. Code, § 830.2.)    “An initial and essential element of recovery for premises liability  under the governing statutes is proof a dangerous condition existed.” (Stathoulis  v. City of Montebello (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 559, 566.)  The law  imposes no duty on a landowner to repair trivial defects or to maintain his or  her property in an absolutely perfectly condition. (Ibid.) “A  property owner is not liable for damages caused by a minor, trivial or  insignificant defect in property.” (Caloroso v. Hathaway (2004) 122  Cal.App.4th 922, 927.) The “trivial defect defense” is an aspect of duty  that a plaintiff must plead and prove and allows a court to determine whether a  defect is trivial as a matter of law. (Ursino v. Big Boy Restaurants  (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 394, 398.) “The rule which permits a court to determine  ‘triviality’ as a matter of law rather than always submitting the issue to a  jury provides a check valve for the elimination from the court system of  unwarranted litigation which attempts to impose upon a property owner what  amounts to absolute liability for injury to persons who come upon the  property.” (Id. at p. 399.)      In cases “concerned with the difference in elevation between adjoining  sections of sidewalk where the rise varied from one-fourth inch to one inch . .  . the court held the defect to be minor and trivial as a matter of law [and did  not] impose liability upon the owner for injuries thereby sustained by the  plaintiff.” (Graves v. Roman (1952) 113 Cal.App.2d 584, 586.) “Several  decisions have found height differentials of up to one and one-half inches  trivial as a matter of law.” (Stathoulis, supra, 164 Cal.App.4th  at p. 568.)  For example, in Whiting v. National City (1937) 9  Cal.2d 163, a sidewalk slab was raised three-fourths of an inch above the  adjoining portion and the court deemed the defect to be minor and held that no  injury would ordinarily be suffered therefrom when ordinary care was exercised  in using the sidewalk. (Id. at p. 166.) The Court noted that many  thousands of people, including numerous city officials, had passed over this  defect during the five years of its existence and no one had suffered from it  to the extent of seeking redress against the city. (Ibid.)    In Balmer v. City of Beverly Hills (1937) 22 Cal.App.2d 529, one  portion of sidewalk was raised one inch above the adjoining portion. The court  found that the “difference of one-fourth of an inch is not sufficient to take  the present case outside the ruling in the Whiting case” which involved  a raise in three-fourths an inch and was found to be a minor defect. (Id.  at pp. 531-532.)   In support, Defendant relies on the Declaration of Mark Blanchette, Ph.D  (“Blanchette”). Blanchette is a Biomechanics and Safety Consultant who  specializes in walkway safety and injury biomechanics. (Blanchette Decl., ¶ 2.)  In formulating his opinion, Blanchette relied on discovery responses, various  depositions, photographs of the subject condition, and medical records. (Blanchette  Decl., ¶ 3.) Based on Blanchette’s photogrammetry analysis, he estimates the  height of the elevation change to be 1 and 3/32 inches with an error of 3/32 of  an inch. (Blanchette Decl., ¶ 8.) Thus, the maximum estimated height of the  subject condition is 1 and 6/32 inches or 1.19 inches. (Blanchette Decl., ¶ 8.)  Such an elevation change, as established by the cases cited above, is trivial  as a matter of law. Further, Plaintiff’s own testimony establishes that it was  a sunny afternoon when she tripped. (Blanchette Decl., ¶ 9.) Thus, there was  ample lighting for her to see the elevation change. (Blanchette Decl., ¶ 9.)    The court finds that Defendant has made a prima facie showing that the  defect was trivial as a matter of law. Accordingly, the burden shifts to  Plaintiff to show that there is a triable issue of material fact.   Plaintiff provides the declarations of her own experts, Gary Gsell  (“Gsell”) and Philip Rosescu (“Rosescu”). Rosescu is a civil engineer and forensic  expert specializing in premises liability. (Rosescu Decl., ¶¶ 2-4.) Rosescu  bases his opinions on photographs of the subject condition taken before  Defendant repaired it and photogrammetric analysis of said photographs.  (Rosescu Decl., ¶¶ 7-9.) Rosescu opines that the height of the elevation change  was approximately 1.63 inches. (Rosescu Decl., ¶ 9.) Gsell, a municipal  infrastructure assessment consultant, personally inspected the subject  condition and used Google StreetView to obtain pictures of the location taken  before the accident. (Gsell Decl., ¶¶ 2, 5.) Gsell declares that the area  surrounding the subject condition was in disrepair prior to the accident.  (Gsell Decl., ¶ 9(i).) Gsell’s inspection revealed that shadows from the fence  adjoining the sidewalk could have hidden the defect. (Gsell Decl., ¶ 9(j), Exh.  D.) Further, there was an even greater vertical discontinuity right next to the  subject condition, which could have increased the danger of the subject  condition, as a pedestrian would be so focused on navigating the riskier  condition that they would be more likely to injure themselves on the smaller  defect. (Gsell Decl., ¶ 9(i); see also Stack v. City of Lemoore (2023)  91 Cal.App.5th 102, 115-116.)   Whether a crack or other defect in a walkway is dangerous does not rest  entirely on its size, although the size of a crack is a pivotal factor in the  determination. (Stathoulis, supra, 164 Cal.App.4th at pp.  566-567.) In addition to size, the court must determine “whether there  existed any circumstances surrounding the accident which might have rendered  the defect more dangerous than its mere abstract depth would indicate” (Fielder  v. City of Glendale (1977) 71 Cal.App.3d 719, 734), such as the “weather at  the time of the incident, plaintiff’s knowledge of the conditions in the area,  whether the defect has caused other accidents, and whether circumstances might  either have aggravated or mitigated the risk of injury. [Citations.]” (Stathoulis,  supra, 164 Cal.App.4th at p. 567). Where reasonable minds would reach  only one conclusion, courts may determine “triviality” as a matter of law and  the issue may be properly resolved by way of summary judgment. (Stathoulis,  supra, 164 Cal.App.4th at p. 567.) However, a court may not “make that  determination if competing and conflicting evidence of the size, nature and  quality of the defect, or the circumstances surrounding the plaintiff’s injury,  raise triable factual questions as to whether the defect or conditions of the  surface presented a danger to pedestrians exercising ordinary care.”  (Id.  at p. 569.)   Here, the court finds that the evidence supports a vertical defect of  1.63 inches in the pavement.  The court  finds that there are no other aggravating factors which would have increased  the risk of this defect for this plaintiff.   Although there is an adjacent fence, the shadows cast by that fence  would have fallen away from the sidewalk during a sunny afternoon. (See  Blanchette Decl. Exh. B; PUMF No. 1-3.) Therefore, the court finds paragraph  9(i) of the Gsell declaration irrelevant.   In addition, while the photographs show different uplifts and  deteriorated sections of adjacent sidewalk slabs, there is no evidence that  Plaintiff observed or reacted to those defects; thus, this situation is  distinguishable from Stack v. City of Lemoore where a jogger was  required to focus on several defects simultaneously.  Rather, this Plaintiff was not looking down  at all. (PUMF 4.)  Finally, there is no  evidence that there was any other concealment of the defect nor any other  condition which increased its level of dangerousness. However, there are  triable factual questions concerning the height of the elevation change and if  the jury accepts that the variation was in excess of 1.5 inches the court  cannot say that no reasonable person would find the defect trivial. Thus, the  court cannot grant Defendant’s motion on this ground. Notwithstanding this  conclusion, however, Defendant also asserts that summary judgment is proper  because it did not have actual or constructive notice of the defect. The court  addresses this argument below.   B.  Notice of a Dangerous Condition   The parties do not dispute that Defendant lacked actual knowledge of the  defect, as there were no reports of trip and fall accidents at the subject  location prior to Plaintiff’s accident. (PUMF No. 13.) Thus, the discussion  turns to whether Defendant had constructive knowledge of the defect.   A government entity had constructive notice of a dangerous condition only  if the plaintiff establishes that the condition “existed for such a period of  time and was of  such an obvious nature that the public entity, in the exercise of due care,  should have discovered the condition and its dangerous character.” (Gov. Code §  835.2, subd. (b) [emphasis added].) On the issue of due care, admissible  evidence includes but is not limited to evidence of whether the condition and  its dangerous character would have been discovered by an inspection system that  was reasonably adequate or whether the public entity maintained and operated an  inspection system with due care and did not discover the condition.  (Gov.  Code § 835.2, subd. (b)(1)-(2).)   “Whether the dangerous condition was obvious and whether it existed for a  sufficient period of time are threshold elements to establish a claim of  constructive notice.” (Heskel v. City of San Diego (2014) 227  Cal.App.4th 313, 317 [base of hollow metal post cemented into city sidewalk was  not obvious to impart constructive notice].) “Where the plaintiff fails to  present direct or circumstantial evidence as to either element, his claim is  deficient as a matter of law.” (Ibid.)   “It takes less for a defect in a sidewalk to be obvious. The reasons for  this are, well, obvious. As their very name implies, sidewalks are made for  perambulation. Pedestrians on sidewalks accordingly have “the right to assume  [that] the surface would be safe” without having to “ ‘ “keep [their] eyes  fixed on the ground.” ’ ” (Garber v. Los Angeles (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d  349, 358, 38 Cal.Rptr. 157.) Given the very likely danger to pedestrians and  others from all but the most trivial of defects in sidewalks, the “likelihood  and magnitude of potential danger” due to failure to maintain sidewalks in good  condition justifies a requirement that public entities apply more rigorous  scrutiny to searching sidewalks for defects, even if that means greater cost.  [Citations.] (Martinez v. City of Beverly Hills (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 508,  523.)   Defendant does not address the length of time the alleged defect existed,  instead arguing that the defect was not obvious and did not have any  characteristics which would make it especially dangerous. Defendant provides  the declaration of Samuel English (“English”), a Legal Risk Specialist, in  support of its motion. English declares that he reviews Claims for Damages  filed with the City Clerk’s Office related to premises liability matters and  investigates the scenes of any alleged accident. (English Decl., ¶ 4.) Prior to  May 26, 2022, no other trip and fall accidents had been reported at the  location identified by Plaintiff. (English Decl., ¶ 10.)   While the English Declaration is sufficient to establish Defendant’s lack  of actual knowledge, the court finds that Defendant submitted no relevant  evidence establishing that it did not have constructive notice of the defect. Defendant  argues that the elevation change is too trivial to impart constructive  knowledge but, as discussed above, there are triable issues regarding the  actual height of the sidewalk uplift. Further, Defendant provides no evidence  that it maintained any sidewalk inspection procedures to address whether it  exercised due care in the maintenance of the sidewalk.   Moreover, even if Defendant did meet its initial burden, the court finds  that Plaintiff’s evidence is sufficient to establish that there are triable  issues. Plaintiff submits a Google StreetView photo which shows that the  sidewalk elevation was visible from the street as far back as 2016; (Gsell  Decl., Exh. C.) and the same apparent elevation change existed at the time  Plaintiff tripped. (Gsell Decl., Exh. B.) Thus, there are triable issues as to how  long the condition existed and whether an adequate inspection would have  revealed it.   As there are triable issues of material fact regarding constructive  notice, the court cannot grant Defendant’s motion on this ground.   Accordingly, the court DENIES the motion for summary judgment.   CONCLUSION              Based on the foregoing, the motion for summary judgment is DENIED.   Plaintiff ordered to give notice of ruling.