 Case Number:  24STCV11209    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENATIVE RULING
 



CALEX ENGINEERING CO. 
  
        
  vs.
 
WENDELL BENIGA, et al. 
 


 Case
  No.:  24STCV11209
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 4, 2024



 
Defendant’s
demurrer is SUSTAINED, WITH 15 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
On 5/30/2024,
Plaintiff Calex Engineering Co. filed suit against Wendell Beniga and Ironmark
Earthworks, Inc. alleging: (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (3) breach of fiduciary duty; (3)
aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty; (5) inducing breach of contract;
(6) misappropriation of trade secrets; (7) violation of Business and
Professions Code section 17200; (8) intentional interference with economic
relations; (9) negligent interference with economic relations; and (10)
violations of Comprehensive Computer Data Access and Fraud Act. 
 
            On
6/25/2024, Defendant Ironmark Earthworks, Inc. (Defendant) demurred to
Plaintiff’s tenth cause of action. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff has failed to state a claim for Violation of
Comprehensive Computer Data Access and Fraud Act (Cal. Penal Code § 502), and
arguing that’s the claim is vague and ambiguous. 
 
The Computer
Data Access and Fraud Act (CDAFA) is set forth in Cal. Penal Code § 502, and
“prohibits unauthorized access to customers, computer systems, and computer
networks, and provides for a civil remedy in the form of compensatory damages,
injunctive relief, and other equitable relief.” (Satmodo, LLC v. Whenever
Commc’ns, LLC, No. 17-cv0192-AJB-NLS, 2017 WL 1365839, at *6 (S.D. Cal.
Apr. 14, 2017). Section 502 is considered an “anti-hacking statute intended to
prohibit the unauthorized use of any computer system for improper or
illegitimate purpose.” (Id.) Further, Section 502, subdivision (h), has
two subparts that, under certain conditions, prohibit punishing an employee who
misuses an employer’s computer. The first subpart applies to an employee’s
computer misuse which occurs within the scope of his employment. Penal Code
section 502 states:
 
(h)(1)
Subdivision (c) does not apply to punish any acts which are committed by a
person within the scope of his or her lawful employment. For purposes of this
section, a person acts within the scope of his or her employment when he or she
performs acts which are reasonably necessary to the performance of his or her
work assignment.
 
            Here,
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Beniga, who was Plaintiff’s former employee,
left Plaintiff to join Ironmark to help it “unfairly compete” with Plaintiff.
(Complaint, ¶¶ 20-23.) Before leaving Plaintiff’s employ but while still
employed, Plaintiff alleges that Beniga took “trade secrets and confidential
and proprietary information” of Plaintiff and then allegedly used this
information to help Ironmark compete with Plaintiff. (Id., ¶ 22.)
Plaintiff also alleges that Beniga signed a confidentiality agreement
precluding disclosure of “information relating to the business of Company and
any of its activities, projects, or clients as confidential, and not divulge
any of this information to outside parties ...during, and subsequent to,
employment with Company" and breached said agreement by disclosing alleged
confidential information that he took to Ironmark.” (Id., ¶¶ 38-39.)
 
As such, the
basis for Ironmark’s liability for Penal Code section 502 is that Ironmark
allegedly “aided and abetted” Beniga taking information and has since
benefitted from using this information to compete with Plaintiff. (Complaint, ¶
125.)
 
However,
Plaintiff has not alleged facts which could show how Ironmark allegedly
aided or abetted Beniga. While Plaintiff attempts to clarify in opposition, new
facts outside the four corners of the Complaint cannot be properly considered
here. 
 
Moreover, as
noted by Defendant there are 14 possible provisions under which a violation of
Penal Code section 502 can be alleged. Moreover, if employees were authorized
to have access to and use the information that was copied and downloaded while
employed, then there is no violation of the Penal Code section 502 as a matter
of law. (See Oracle USA, Inc. v. Rimini Street, Inc. (9th Cir. 2018) 879
F.3d 948, 962 (“[Plaintiff] obviously disapproved of the method — automated
downloading — by which [defendant] took [plaintiff's] proprietary information,”
but defendant is only liable if it was not authorized to take and use the
information that it downloaded); see also, Ticketmaster L.L.C. v. Prestige
Entertainment, Inc. (C.D. Cal. 2018) 306 F.Supp.3d 1164, 1176.)
 
Here, the
Court agrees that Plaintiff must clarify the nature of its section 502 claim
against Plaintiff, and allege facts which could show aiding and abetting beyond
the conclusory allegations that Defendant has done so. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer is sustained, with 15 days leave to amend. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  October   
, 204
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 