  Case Number:  23STCV01605    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  17  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENATIVE RULING
 



SKECHERS USA, INC. 
  
        
  vs.
 
CONTINENTAL CASUALTY COMPANY, et al.

 


 Case
  No.:  23STCV01605
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 4, 2024



            
 
Plaintiff’s
motion for leave to amend is GRANTED.
 
On 1/25/2023,
Plaintiff Skechers USA, Inc. (Plaintiff) filed suit against Continental
Casualty Company, Scottsdale Insurance Company (Continental), Columbia Casualty
Company (Columbia), Lexington Insurance Company, Great American Assurance
company, and National Fire & Marine Insurance Company, alleging: (1) breach
of contract; (2) tortious breach of contract; and (3) unfair competition. 
 
            On
7/17/2024, Plaintiff moved for leave to amend its prior discovery admissions. 
 
            The
motion is unopposed. 
 
Discussion 
            
Plaintiff
seeks leave to amend its discovery responses provided in response to Great
American’s Request for Admission No. 20 and Scottsdale’s Request For Admission
Nos. 2-5, 10-14, and 22-26.
 
Plaintiff
contends that the responses it provided were inaccurate and the result of an
honest mistake. Plaintiff further argues: 
 
Notably,
there was nothing improper about Skechers’ service of amended discovery
responses to clarify certain case facts relating to which insurer(s) have
indemnity liability for the settlement of the underlying Converse action.
Moreover, there was no strategic advantage to Skechers in doing so. Indeed,
Skechers has no reason to prefer payment by one insurer over another; i.e.,
money is fungible regardless of which insurer must pay. Skechers amended its
discovery responses solely for purposes of factual accuracy because the truth
matters.
 
            (Motion,
1: 10-14.) 
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion sets forth a detailed explanation of how the mistake was made. To
summarize, in or about October 2023, Skechers’ E-Commerce Merchandising Manager
Timothy Lakin performed a search of Skechers’ legacy administrative system
called Skechers Web Admin (the Legacy System) to ascertain the dates when
specific Skechers footware products were first added to Sketchers.com. To
conduct the search, Mr. Lakin searched the style numbers of each of the
foregoing Accused Products in the Legacy System. When he typically runs a
search on the Legacy System, the search results indicate when certain Skechers
products went “live” on Skechers’ domestic e-commerce website Skechers.com in
the “Date Available” field. (Id.) Here, his search yielded results
indicating the date that each of the Accused Products was first “available” was
as set forth above. (Id.)
 
            However,
during trial preparation efforts in late May 2024, Skechers checked the dates
on which each of the Accused Products was (1) first imported into the United
States and (2) first sold on Skechers’ domestic e-commerce website
Skechers.com. This search yielded different results. They discovered that
“[w]hile a search results on the Legacy System for more recent Skechers
products indicate when certain Skechers products went “live” on Skechers’
domestic e-commerce website Skechers.com, here because the Accused Products are
more than ten (10) years old the search results have a different meaning.”
(Motion, 4: 19-22.) 
 
A party may
amend an admission in response to a request for admission with leave of court.
(CCP § 2033.300 (a).) Amendment should be permitted where: (1) “the admission
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect”; and (2) “the
party who obtained the admission will not be substantially prejudiced in
maintaining [its] . . . defense on the merits.” (CCP § 2033.300(b).) Where a
party learns of new facts contradicting a prior admission, leave to amend
should be granted so long as the amendment would not substantially prejudice
the party who obtained the admission. (New Albertsons, Inc. v. Sup. Ct.
(2008) 168 Cal. App. 4th 1403, 1418.) The policy
favoring leave to amend is so strong that it is an abuse of discretion to deny
an amendment unless the adverse party can show meaningful prejudice. (Atkinson
v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761.)
 
Here,
after review, the Court is persuaded that the initial incorrect admissions were
the results of reasonable mistake, and that meaningful prejudice will not
result if Plaintiff is granted leave to amend its responses. (New Albertsons,
supra, at p. 1218.) Great American
was dismissed from this case on January 5, 2024 and thus would not be
prejudiced by any amendment. Scottsdale has not relied on Skechers’ mistaken
admissions in connection with its pending motion for summary
judgment/adjudication. The Court has continued trial to February 2, 2025.
Accordingly, defendants have ample time to conduct further discovery relating
to the subject matter of Skechers’ admissions to the extent any such discovery
is warranted.
 
As a final
note, Scottsdale and Lexington filed notices of conditional non-opposition. As
for Lexington, Lexington lacks standing to oppose the Motion given that it is
not the “party who obtained the admission” under Code of Civil Procedure
Section 2033.300(b) (instead, Great American and Scottsdale obtained the
admissions). Moreover, Lexington is already pursuing the requested discovery
discussed as a condition of its non-opposition, and Skechers has stipulated to
shorten time for hearing on an amended motion for summary judgment by
Lexington. As a result, the stated condition is moot.
 
As for
Scottsdale, it asks for leave to amend to allow Scottsdale to amend its pending
motion for summary judgment (the MSJ), on the grounds that “[i]f the Court
grants Skechers leave to amend its prior admissions to admit that its first
publication/advertisement of the accused products was not earlier than November
22, 2012, meaning more than two and half months after the end of the SIC policy
period, it will be conclusively established by Skechers’ amended admission that
there was no occurrence of an offense during the SIC policy period.” (See Limited
Opp.) 
 
However,
discovery first learned in the course of this action is not relevant to whether
or not an earlier coverage denial was proper. As noted by Plaintiff in reply,
“[h]ere, Scottsdale does not contend that it knew of any facts conclusively
negating its duty to defend based upon the PPE at the time it denied coverage
back in 2015. In fact, at the time Scottsdale denied coverage, it did not do so
based upon the supposed applicability of the PPE and never raised or mentioned
the PPE in wrongfully denying its duty to defend. Accordingly, Skechers’
discovery responses in this action and all other subsequently developed
“evidence” cited by Scottsdale in its pending MSJ have no bearing on its duty
to defend and do not merit an amended MSJ on that issue.” (Reply, 2: 13-19).
The Court agrees and thus finds no need for Scottsdale to amend its MSJ at this
time. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend is granted. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  October   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 