 Case Number:  24STCV12187    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



ARNO PATRICK KUIGOUA,
  
        
  vs.
 
THE MATTHEW L. TUCK & ASSOCIATES, et
  al. 
  


 Case
  No.:  24STCV12187 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 4, 2024




 
            Defendant’s demurrer is SUSTAINED, WITHOUT LEAVE TO
AMEND. 
 
On 5/13/2024,
in propria persona Plaintiff Arno Patrick Kuigoua (Plaintiff) filed suit
against the Matthew L. Tuck & Associates, PLC dba Appellate Law Firm, Aaron
Myers, and Matthew L. Tuck.
 
On 8/19/2024,
Defendants demurred to Plaintiff’s Complaint.
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s Complaint alleges
improper claims that are barred and cannot be asserted in this action pursuant
to the release in a contractually binding Memorandum of Understanding (“MOU”)
Plaintiff agreed to and signed on February 20, 2024.
 
            In support, Defendants submitted evidence that:
 
-        
On February 20,
2024, the parties attended a virtual mediation with the Honorable Linda Quinn
(Ret.). Plaintiff and his attorney as well a representative for Defendants and
Defendants attorney of record attended. At the end of the day, the Parties
reached a settlement. To memorialize the essential terms of the agreement, the
Parties circulated and signed a Memorandum of Understanding (“MOU”). The MOU
first sentence states “[t]he parties understand that formal documents remain to
be drafted and signed, but consider the following to be binding and admissible
to prove its contents as to the settlement of the individual pre-litigation
action, Arno Kuigoua v. Matthew Tuck & Associates PC and Aaron Myers.”
 
-        
Plaintiff’s
counsel advised Plaintiff did not have printer/scanner and would instead go to
a UPS store to sign and return a fully executed MOU. In the meantime, Plaintiff
included a separate sheet of paper attached as the third page to the MOU in
Plaintiff’s handwriting that states “I, Arno Kuigoua, hereby agree to the
memorandum of understanding prepared today in the course of mediation with
Judge Linda Quinn.” It is signed by Plaintiff and dated February 20, 2024.
Therefore, Plaintiff has agreed to be bound by the terms of the MOU which
include a release of all claims, known and unknown, against Defendants.
 
(Grasu
Decl.)
 
After
review, the Court finds Plaintiff’s claim here to be barred. 
 
When
parties intend that an agreement be binding, the fact that a more formal
agreement must be prepared and executed does not alter the validity of the
agreement. (J.B.B. Inv. Partners Ltd. v. Fair, 37 CA5th 1, 12 (2019); Blix
St. Records, Inc. v. Cassidy, 191 CA4th 39, 48 (2010). If the parties
definitely agree on all of the essential terms of an agreement in an informal
writing, that agreement may constitute an enforceable contract, even though the
parties intend to execute a formal writing later. (CSAA Ins. Exch. v. Hodroj,
72 CA5th 272, 277 (2021); Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel, 74 CA4th
299, 306–9 (1999). 
 
Here,
Plaintiff has not alleged any facts which could show that material terms were
missing from the MOU or that could sow he did not intend to agree to be bound
by the MOU terms. Rather, Plaintiff’s Complaint amounts to a re-litigation of
the very same issues mediated, and resolved, by the MOU.
 
Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer is sustained, without leave to amend. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  October   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 