 Case Number:  BC648246    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



JOY SLAGEL
                           
        
  vs.
 
LIBERTY MUTUAL INSURANCE COMPANY, ARIAM
  ALEMSEGHED, and LEANN LO
                                        


 Case No.: 
  BC648246
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 4, 2024



 
            Plaintiff’s motion to quash is
DENIED. 
 
On January 26, 2017, Plaintiff Joy
Slagel (Plaintiff) filed suit against Liberty Mutual Insurance Company (LMIC),
Ariam Alemseghed, and Leann Lo, alleging: (1) age discrimination; (2) age
harassment; (3) retaliation in violation of FEHA; (3) discrimination on the
basis of taking disability leave in violation of FEHA; (5) retaliation for
taking disability leave in violation of FEHA; (6) failure to provide reasonable
accommodation in violation of FEHA; (7) failure to engage in the interactive
process in violation of FEHA; (8) breach of express oral contract not to
terminate employment without good cause; (9) breach of implied in fact contract
not to terminate employment without good cause; (1)) wrongful termination of
employment in violation of public policy; 
(11) violation of Labor Code section 1102.5; and (12) intentional
infliction of emotional distress (IIED).
 
            Now, Plaintiff moves to quash
Defendant’s subpoena served by Defendant Liberty Mutual Insurance Company on
(1) York Risk Services Group, Inc. and (2) CopperPoint Insurance Company.
 
Discussion

 
            Plaintiff
argues that Defendant’s subpoenas are improper because, among other things: (1)
they were served after the close of discovery; (2) Defendant has no compelling
reason for seeking private employment records for an employer subsequent to Slagel’s
employment with Defendant; (3) they are overbroad, and (4) the subpoena seeks
impermissible character evidence. 
 
            In
opposition, Defendant argues that the Trial Subpoenas are narrowly tailored and
“any evidence concerning Plaintiff’s representations on her employment
applications or resumes regarding when or how her employment with Liberty
Mutual ended is needed and critical to Liberty Mutual’s ability to establish
its key defenses regarding Plaintiff’s mitigation efforts in securing
subsequent employment and the impact of such efforts on Plaintiff’s loss of
wages claims.”  (Opp., 3: 16-19.) 
 
            After
review, the Court agrees with Defendant. 
 
            First,
the Court disagrees with Plaintiff that the subpoenas are discovery subpoenas,
rather than trial subpoenas. Here, Defendant seeks a narrowly tailored
selection of documents which are known to exist. As such, it does not involve
“discovery” but rather the procurement of known documents. (Boal v. Price Waterhouse & Co. (1985) 165 Cal. App. 3d 806, 810.)  
 
            Second,
the Court finds that Liberty
Mutual’s Trial Subpoenas do not seek character evidence, nor do they seek any
evidence regarding “collateral matters.” The Trial Subpoenas request records
regarding Plaintiff’s employment with her subsequent employers. The Trial
Subpoenas clearly identify all the information Liberty Mutual seeks, such as
Plaintiff’s employment application, resume, and pay records. For example,
evidence concerning Plaintiff’s representations on her applications or resume
regarding when or why her employment with Liberty Mutual ended is directly
relevant to her damages claim, particularly to her mitigation efforts in
securing subsequent employment, and for use as potential impeachment evidence.
Additionally, Plaintiff’s pay records from her subsequent employers are
directly relevant and critical to Liberty Mutual’s defense regarding
Plaintiff’s lost earnings claims. They are, for instance, relevant to
Plaintiff’s testimony regarding how much income and benefits she received
following her employment separation from Liberty Mutual. 
 
Additionally, pursuant to Evidence Code section 780, the jury may
consider the evidence Liberty Mutual specifically requested though its Trial
Subpoenas in evaluating the truthfulness of Plaintiff’s testimony at trial
regarding these matters. Section 780 provides:
 
Except as otherwise provided by statute, the court or jury may
consider in determining the credibility of a witness any matter that has any
tendency in reason to prove or disprove the truthfulness of his testimony at
the hearing, including but not limited to any of the following:
 
(a) His demeanor while testifying and the manner in which he
testifies. 
 
(b) The character of his testimony. 
 
(c) The extent of his capacity to perceive, to recollect, or to
communicate any matter about which he testifies. 
 
(d) The extent of his opportunity to perceive any matter about
which he testifies.
 
(e) His character for honesty or veracity or their opposites. 
 
(f) The existence or nonexistence of a bias, interest, or other
motive. 
 
(g) A statement previously made by him that is consistent with his
testimony at the hearing. 
 
(h) A statement made by him that is inconsistent with any part of
his testimony at the hearing. 
 
(i) The existence or nonexistence of any fact testified to by him. 
 
(j) His attitude toward the action in which he testifies or toward
the giving of testimony. 
 
(k) His admission of untruthfulness.
 
            The Court agrees with Defendant that
evidence concerning Plaintiff’s representations to subsequent employers about
when or why her employment with Liberty Mutual ended, either on her employment
application or other records, is directly relevant and admissible to the extent
she presents testimony at trial that is inconsistent with those records.
 
            Third, the Court does not find that
the admission of evidence concerning Plaintiff’s subsequent employment would
rise to the level of “substantial danger” or prejudice necessitating its
exclusion from trial here. Defendant has a competing, compelling need
warranting the production of the information requested. (Hill v. National
Collegiate Athletic Ass'n (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 39-40.) 
 
            Finally, Plaintiff argues that the
Trial Subpoenas are procedurally defective and should be quashed because they
request that the responsive information be delivered to Department 38. Defendant
clarified that it would inform the subsequent employers that the information
requested should be produced to Department 17, where trial is to be held. As
such, the Court does not find this error to be a legitimate basis for quashing
the subpoenas. 
 
            Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s
motion to quash is denied. 
 
It is so
ordered. 
 
Dated: 
October    , 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
  
Hon. Jon R. Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please
contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 
 