

 
SERVICE: 

 
[X]
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, rule 3.1300)                      OK
[X]
Correct Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)                                      OK 
[X]
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c, 1005(b))                       OK
 
OPPOSITION:          None filed as of June 13, 2024                       [   ] Late          [X] None 
REPLY:                     None filed June 13, 2024                                [   ] Late          [X] None 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
July 19, 2019, Plaintiff Video Symphony, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Richard and Dolores Sandoval (“Defendants”) for breach of
promissory notes.
 
On
May 16, 2024, the Court entered judgment after trial in favor of Plaintiff and
against Defendants, in the amount of $8,246.91, consisting of damages,
prejudgment interest, and costs.
 
On
May 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion for attorney fees. The motion
is unopposed.
  
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Plaintiff
moves for attorney fees after trial in the amount of $15,681.50 as the
prevailing party based on Civil Code § 1717(a).
 
OPPOSITION
 
            None.
 
REPLY
 
            None. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Legal Standard & Discussion
When authorized by contract, statute or law, reasonable attorney fees are
allowable costs. (CCP § 1033.5(a)(10)(A).) “Except as attorney’s fees are
specifically provided for by statute, the measure and mode of compensation of
attorneys and counselors at law is left to the agreement, express or implied,
of the parties . . . .” (CCP § 1021.) “In any action on a contract, where the
contract specifically provides that attorney’s fees and costs, which are
incurred to enforce that contract, shall be awarded either to one of the
parties or to the prevailing party, then the party who is determined to be the party
prevailing on the contract, whether he or she is the party specified in the
contract or not, shall be entitled to reasonable attorney’s fees in addition to
other costs.” (Civ. Code § 1717(a).)
Here, Plaintiff is the prevailing party as judgment was entered in its
favor. The action is “on a contract” as the sole claim is for breach of
promissory notes. The promissory notes upon which the action is based specifically
state: “DEFAULT: I will be in default if I don’t fully pay any installment on
time, at which time the interest rate may change to 18% annum. Alternatively,
and at any time thereafter, you may then demand the unpaid balance, earned
finance charge, plus any attorney fees, expenses of collection, court
fees and interest as allowed by law.” (Complaint, Exh. C, emphasis added.)
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff is entitled to attorney fees. 
As to the reasonableness of the fees, Plaintiff’s counsel provides a
breakdown of the time spent on the matter including 6 hours reviewing the file,
preparing and filing of the Complaint and coordinating process service; 4 hours
negotiating, documenting, and monitoring a settlement that Richard Sandoval
ultimately reneged on; 24.5 hours preparing for, appearing at, and sending
notices related to five trial dates; and more than 3 hours to schedule,
prepare, and file the instant Motion and this Declaration, for which he has billed
2 hours. (Flanagan Decl., ¶8.) Counsel also provides an itemization of his
billable time totaling 39.7 hours. (Id. at ¶9, Exh. 1.) Counsel’s hourly
rate is $395. The Court finds both the hourly rate and time spent on the matter
reasonable. Defendant has not opposed or challenged counsel’s hourly rate or
any of the billing entries. 
Based on the foregoing, the motion
is GRANTED in the amount requested of $15,681.50.
III.       Conclusion 
            
            
Plaintiff’s Motion for Attorney
Fees After Trial is GRANTED.  
 
            Attorney Fees are awarded to
Plaintiff and against Defendants Richard Sandoval and Dolores Sandoval in the
requested amount of $15,681.50.
 
Counsel for Plaintiff is ordered to electronically submit
a proposed form of order, consistent with this Court’s Ruling, within 10-days.
  
The Moving
Party is ordered to give notice and to attach a copy of the Court’s Tentative
Ruling, as an exhibit “A” to said notice, as the final order of the Court.   
 
 