  Case Number:  22VECV02317    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  W W. P. v. DOE
1, et al.
 
demurrer with motion to strike complaint
 
Date of Hearing:        January 16, 2024                               Trial
Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        22VECV02317
 
Moving Party:            Defendant
Doe 4
Responding Party:     Plaintiff
W.P. 
Meet and Confer:      Attempted.
(Tavelman Decl. ¶¶3-6.)  
 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 8, 2022, Plaintiff W.P.
filed a complaint against Doe 1 and Doe 2 (religious non-profit corporations),
Doe 3 (a California corporation), and Doe 4 (an individual) for (1) childhood
sexual assault and battery, (2) intentional infliction of emotional distress,
(3) negligent hiring, supervision and retention, (4) negligent supervision of a
minor, and negligence. Plaintiff alleges in 1978, when Plaintiff was seven
years old, Doe 4 sexually assaulted her after meeting Plaintiff at Doe 3. Plaintiff
attended religious services with her mother at Doe 3 and Doe 4 served as
religious school instructor and head of the Worship Department there.
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant Doe 4’s Demurrer to the First
Cause of Action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND; OVERRULED to the Second Cause
of Action. Defendant’s Motion to Strike is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant Doe 4 demurs to the first and
second causes of action on the grounds Plaintiff fails to allege facts
sufficient to constitute a claim for sexual assault and battery and intentional
infliction of emotional distress and is uncertain. Defendant Doe 4 also moves
to strike Plaintiff’s allegations for punitive damages. 
 
First Cause of Action
 
Defendant demurs to the first cause of
action for childhood sexual assault and battery on the grounds Plaintiff fails
to allege facts sufficient to constitute a claim against Defendant and is
uncertain. 
 
Civ. Code section 1708.5 provides the
following:¿ 
 
(a) A
person commits a sexual battery who does any of the following:¿ 
(1)
Acts with the intent to cause a harmful or offensive contact with an intimate
part of another, and a sexually offensive contact with that person directly or
indirectly results.¿ 
(2)
Acts with the intent to cause a harmful or offensive contact with another by
use of his or her intimate part, and a sexually offensive contact with that
person directly or indirectly results.¿ 
(3)
Acts to cause an imminent apprehension of the conduct described in paragraph
(1) or (2), and a sexually offensive contact with that person directly or
indirectly results.¿ 
 
(Civ. Code § 1708.5(a).)¿¿ 
 
Section 1708.5 defines an intimate part
as “the sexual organ, anus, groin, or buttocks of any person, or the breast of
a female” and offensive contact as “contact that offends a reasonable sense of
personal dignity.” (Id., § 1708.5(d), (f).)¿¿ “A cause of action
for sexual battery under Civil Code section 1708.5 requires the batterer intend
to cause a ‘harmful or offensive’ contact and the batteree suffer a ‘sexually
offensive contact.’” (Angie M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th
1217, 1225; see also Jacqueline R. v. Household of Faith Family Church, Inc.
(2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 198, 208 (quoting Angie M.).)¿¿ 
 
Defendant argues the complaint fails to
plead a single fact that would establish and support that Doe 4 physically
touched any "intimate body part" of Plaintiff or attempted to touch
any of Plaintiff’s intimate body parts. Moreover, the complaint fails to allege
Doe 4 had the requisite intent to touch Plaintiffs body for sexual
gratification, sexual abuse, or sexual arousal. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues
Defendant ignores key contextual facts stated squarely within the four corners
of the Complaint. Here, Plaintiff alleges that she was sexually molested by Doe
4. (Compl. ¶45.) Additionally, Plaintiff alleged that after Doe 4 convinced
Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s family to allow Plaintiff to sleepover at Doe 4’s
home, Doe 4 drugged Plaintiff, causing her to periodically fall asleep, rubbed
Plaintiff’s naked body, and transported her naked body to a bed. (Compl. ¶¶
30-32.) Moreover, Plaintiff established that Doe 4 had engaged in a repeated
pattern of unlawful conduct with children, that was announced to Defendants
congregation. (Compl. ¶ 39.) Based on the allegations, offensive contact with
an intimate part is properly inferred from these facts at the pleading stage.
(See City of Atascadero v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc.
(1998) 68 Cal. App.4th 445.) 
 
The court finds Plaintiff has failed to
allege facts sufficient to support a claim for childhood sexual assault and
battery. The general rule is that statutory claims must be pled with
particularity. (See, e.g., Covenant Care, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2004) 32
Cal. 4th 771, 790; Zipperer v. County of Santa Clara (2005) 133 Cal.
App. 4th 1013, 1020.) For example, Plaintiff references Doe 4 forcibly removing
her clothes in her opposition, but such allegations are missing from the
complaint. Moreover, although Plaintiff alleges Doe 4 touched Plaintiff’s
person, including her naked body, with the intention to cause harmful or
sexually offensive conduct, ‘naked body’ does not equate with the definition of
‘intimate part’. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to
the first cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Second Cause of Action
 
Defendant demurs to the second cause of
action for intentional infliction of emotional distress on the grounds Plaintiff
fails to allege facts sufficient to constitute a claim against Defendant and is
uncertain.
 
The elements of an intentional
infliction of emotional distress cause of action are: (1) extreme and
outrageous conduct by the defendant; (2) intention to cause or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing emotional distress; (3) severe
emotional suffering; and (4) actual and proximate causation of the emotional
distress. (See Moncada v. West Coast Quartz Corp. (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th
768, 780; Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009.) To satisfy
the element of extreme and outrageous conduct, defendant’s conduct “‘must be so
extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
society.’” (Moncada, supra, 221 Cal.App.4th at 780 (quoting Trerice
v. Blue Cross of California (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 878, 883).)  
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff fails to
allege with “great specificity” what specific actions, acts or conduct by Defendant,
Keith Anderson was “extreme and outrageous”. Defendant contends Plaintiff has
presented only legal conclusions, opinions and speculation, but failed to
allege any facts included in the allegations to demonstrate that Doe 4 engaged
in "extreme and outrageous" conduct giving rise to maintaining this
cause of action.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues Plaintiff
established that Doe 4 was a man who repeatedly engaged in unlawful conduct
with minors, convinced Plaintiff’s parents to allow Plaintiff to sleep over at
his home, drugged the minor Plaintiff, forcibly removed her clothes, and spent
an extended period of time in a bathtub and bed with Plaintiff, leading to her
molestation. At this stage, the Court must conclude that unconsented sexual
assaults by Plaintiff’s religious instructor exceeds all bounds usually
tolerated in a civil community, and thus constitutes outrageous conduct. (See Angie
M., supra, 37 Cal.App.4th at 1226 (finding unconsented sexual
conduct initiated by employee sufficiently outrageous enough to survive
demurrer).) Plaintiff contends the complaint also sufficiently alleges Doe 4
knew or should have known that drugging and sexually violating an inherently
vulnerable minor could reasonably cause that individual severe emotional
distress and Plaintiff has alleged she suffers from humiliation, mental anguish,
and severe emotional or physical distress.
 
The court finds Plaintiff sufficiently pled
facts to maintain her cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress against Doe 4. Plaintiff has alleged Defendant touched Plaintiff,
including her naked body, who was a minor and had gained the trust of
Plaintiff’s parents to allow her to sleep over while her parents were out of
town. (Compl. ¶¶28, 47.) Plaintiff further alleges Doe 4 knew his conduct would
cause Plaintiff severe emotional distress, which included humiliation, mental
anguish, and severe emotional or physical distress. (Compl. ¶52.) This is
sufficient for the purposes of a demurrer. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to
the second cause of action is OVERRULED. 

 
Motion to Strike 
 
Defendant Doe 4 moves to strike
Plaintiff’s allegations for punitive damages on the grounds Plaintiff only
alleges l) legal conclusions, which are unsupported by any factual allegations
as to any actions, or acts committed by defendant Keith Anderson, 2)
speculation, without specific facts in support of such speculation, 3)
opinions, and 4) generic boilerplate language pled in an attempt to justify the
First and Second causes of action. 
 
California Civil Code section 3294
authorizes the recovery of punitive damages in non-contract cases where “the
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice . . . .” (Civ. Code §
3294(a).)  
 
“‘Malice’ means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Id. § 3294(c)(1).)
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights. (Civ. Code §
3294(c)(2).) “Fraud” means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or
concealment of a material fact known to defendant with the intention on the
part of defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or
otherwise causing injury. (Civ. Code § 3294(c)(3).) 
 
Punitive damages thus require more than
the mere commission of a tort. (See Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24
Cal.3d 890, 894-95.) And, specific facts must be pleaded in support of punitive
damages. (See Hillard v. A.H. Robins Co. (1983) 148 Cal.App.3d 374,
391-92.)  
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff failed to
plead specific facts or any facts, which rise anywhere close to the level of
despicable conduct required for an award of punitive damages. Defendant
contends conclusions are not facts for the purpose of meeting the pleading
requirements to assert a claim for punitive damages. Specifically, Plaintiff's
complaint is completely lacking in facts evidencing the who, what, where, how
and why defendant, Doe 4' s, conduct amounts to the level of despicable conduct
necessary to sustain a claim for punitive damages.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues Plaintiff’s
complaint clearly shows egregious and despicable conduct by Doe 4 supportive of
her request for punitive damages. (Compl. ¶¶ 29-32, 39.) Doe 4 was known to
have repeatedly engaged in unlawful conduct with minors, Doe 4 convinced
Plaintiff’s parents to allow Plaintiff to sleep over at Doe 4’s home, Doe 4
drugged the minor Plaintiff, forcibly removed her clothes while she was passed
out, and spent time with the naked and drugged Plaintiff in a bathtub and bed.
(Compl. ¶¶ 29-32, 39.)
 
Contrary to Defendant’s assertion,
pleading specific facts is not mandated for punitive damages, which merely
requires ultimate facts. (Spinks v.
Equity Residential Briarwood Apartments (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1004,1055-1056.) The complaint sufficiently alleges Defendant
acted with the requisite malicious and despicable conduct when Defendant
intentionally sexually assaulted Plaintiff. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to
strike is DENIED.  