  Case Number:  23STCV00446    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2023    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTIONS IN LIMINE
Defendants’ MIL No. 1
            No
motion was filed.
Defendants’ MIL No. 2
Defendant HCR ManorCare,
Inc. moves to exclude arguments that there is no safe level of asbestos and
every exposure contributes to a cumulative dose as unsupported by science, not
the product of scientific principles, and not a matter of medical
consensus.  This motion is too vague as
Defendant does not identify any specific expert testimony to be excluded.    
In addition, the motion
would exclude arguments about the standard for proving causation and what
“substantial factor” means.  Under the
July 8, 2022 CMO, motions to exclude expert opinion about the term “substantial
factor” are deemed made and denied without prejudice to objections at
trial.  Defendant did not show good cause
to depart from this order.
Defendant also argues
OSHA and EPA reports are hearsay.  This
motion is too vague as Defendant did not identify any specific report to be
excluded.  If Plaintiff asks to admit the
reports for the truth of the matter asserted in them, Defendant can object at
that time.  However, an expert may rely
on the reports even if they are hearsay.
            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 3
Defendant HCR ManorCare
seeks to preclude Plaintiff’s telling the jury the contents of documents relied
upon by experts because the documents are hearsay, unreliable, and
irrelevant.  This motion is too vague.  Defendant did not identify any specific
evidence to be excluded.  Also, some of
the documents upon which the experts rely may be otherwise admissible.  And if an expert establishes the hearsay is
general background information of the type relied upon by experts in the field,
the hearsay may be admissible.  (People
v. Veamatahau (2020) 9 Cal.5th 16, 22.) 

            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 4
Defendant HCR ManorCare
seeks to exclude evidence of a position statement from the Joint Policy
Committee of the Societies of Epidemiology published on July 24, 2012 as
hearsay, irrelevant and more prejudicial than probative.
            This
statement is hearsay and not subject to an exception.  It was published long after the alleged
exposure occurred and therefore is not evidence of any defendants’ knowledge or
notice at the time of the exposure.  The
document was prepared by a body established “to coordinate and unify joint
policy actions globally,” and the document itself states it is a call for
political action against asbestos rather than an unbiased scientific
document.  Explaining the origins and
development of the document would consume an undue amount of time and confuse
the jury.
            Therefore,
the motion is granted.
Defendants’ MIL Nos. 5-9
            No
motions were filed.
Defendants’ MIL No. 10
Defendant HCR ManorCare
moves to exclude evidence about dust levels based on witnesses’ visual
observations.  A witness has personal
knowledge of what the witness observed firsthand.  Evidence that Plaintiff or witnesses observed
dust may be relevant to the existence of asbestos fibers in the air and how
Plaintiff was exposed to asbestos.  
            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objection at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 10
            Defendant
VWR International, LLC moves to preclude evidence that it has no documents
dated before the November 4, 1983 OSHA emergency temporary order about asbestos
as harassing and irrelevant.  This motion
is too vague.  The court cannot at this
time anticipate whether the lack of some pre-1983 document may or may not be
relevant.  If during trial Plaintiff’s
questions becomes harassing or inquiry about irrelevant matters, Defendant
should object at that time.
            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
            The
moving party is to give notice.
 