 Case Number:  YC072873    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 May 7, 2024
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   YC072873
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Anna
Mezheritsky v. Dorothy Kovich, et al.
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 (1) Defendants, Dorothy Kovich Klein,
Thomas Kovich, and Liberty Mutual Insurance 
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        (1) Plaintiff, Anna Mezheritsky (No Opposition)
                                                LaToya Redd filed a
Declaration bearing on this motion as well
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        None set. 
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion for Leave to File
Complaint-in-Intervention 
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) ¿GRANTED
 
¿¿ 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.    Factual¿¿ 
 
On May 10, 2018,
Plaintiff, Anna Mezheritsky (“Plaintiffs”) filed this action against
Defendants, Dorothy Kovich Klein, Thomas Klein, and DOES 1 through 50.
This lawsuit alleging bodily
injury and emotional distress damages arises from a long-term tenancy where
Plaintiff rented an apartment in Hermosa Beach allegedly owned by Defendant
Dorothy Kovitch Klein.  The lawsuit was
filed in May of 2018 and has been actively litigated in Inglewood since the
case was reassigned to Judge Frank in February of 2022.  
 
Now,
Plaintiff-in-Intervention, Liberty Mutual Insurance (“Liberty”) is requesting
this Court to grant this Motion for Leave to Intervene and permit Liberty to
file its Complaint-in-Intervention against Defendants-in-Intervention who are
the lienholders of the settlement amount $200,000 that was granted on September
13, 2023. Liberty notes that this case arises from alleged habitability defects
at a rental property located at 2532 Hermosa Ave., Apt. D, Hermosa Beach,
California, which was owned by Defendant Dorothy. Plaintiff made her complain
alleging she sustained injuries as a result of said habitability defects. 
 
On August
5, 2022, Liberty notes that all parties participated in mediation before
Mediator Daniel Quinn. Liberty notes that while the case did not resolve at the
time, Mr. Quinn continued to facilitate settlement discussions. As a result, Liberty
contends the parties agreed to resolve this matter for $200,000 as follows:
Defendant Dorothy, through her insurance carrier, agreed to pay the sum of
$198,500 to Plaintiff for a complete resolution of the case, all claims, all
issues. Further, Defendant, Thomas Kovich agreed to pay the sum of $1,500 to
Plaintiff for a complete resolution of the case, all claims, and all issues. 
 
Next, Liberty
notes that on September 13, 2023, this Court granted a Motion to Enforce the
Settlement Agreement to which the parties agreed upon during mediation. His
Court ordered: Dorothy Kovich Klein’s attorney, Marc S. Feldman
contact the insurance carrier and request a single cashier’s check in the
amount of $200,000, to be payable to the Plaintiff Anna Mezheritsky and each of
the following lienholders: (1) Harris Law; (2) Redd Law; (3) Robin Bernhoft,
M.D.; (4) Los Angeles County Superior Court; (5) Medicaid; and (6) Medicare.
 
Liberty asserts that the insurance carrier informed
Mr. Feldman that this request could not be fulfilled because their system does
not allow a single check to be payable to seven (7) payees. Liberty fears that
Plaintiff, Anna Mezheritsky will not endorse the check herself and will not pay
someone or all of the lien holders. Liberty notes that one of the lien holders (presumably
Ms. Redd) has already filed suit against Defendants, Dorothy Kovich Klein and
Thomas Kovich as well as their various attorneys and law firms. 
 
As such, Liberty has filed this Motion for Leave to
File a Complaint-in-Intervention.
 
B.   
Procedural 
 
On May 6, 2024, Defendants,
Dorothy Kovich Klein, Thomas Kovich, and Liberty Mutual Insurance filed this
Motion for Leave to file Complaint-in-Intervention. To date, no opposition has
been filed.  On May 24, 2024, LaToya S.
Redd, Esq. filed a declaration in lieu of any opposition, as a lien holder
only. To date, no reply brief has been filed. 
 
II. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Legal
Standard
¿ 
A nonparty shall petition the court for
leave to intervene by noticed motion or by ex parte application.  The
petition shall include a copy of the proposed complaint in intervention or
answer in intervention and set forth the grounds upon which intervention
rests.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (c).)  The court shall, upon
timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding
if a provision of law confers an unconditional right to intervene, or the
person seeking intervention claims an interest relating to the property or
transaction that is the subject of the action and that person is so situated
that the disposition of the action may impair or impede that person’s ability
to protect that interest, unless that person’s interest is adequately
represented by one or more of the existing parties.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 387,
subd. (d)(1).)  The court may, upon timely application, permit a nonparty
to intervene in the action or proceeding if the person has an interest in the
matter in litigation, or in the success of either of the parties, or an
interest against both.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (d)(2).) 
 
“The trial court has the discretion to
allow intervention where the proper procedures are followed, provided: (1) the
intervenor has a direct and immediate interest in the litigation, (2) the
intervention will not enlarge the issues in the case, and (3) the reasons for
intervention outweigh opposition by the existing parties.”  (Hinton v.
Beck (2009) 176 Cal.4th 1378, 1382-1383 (“Hinton”).)  “A person
has a direct interest justifying intervention in litigation where the judgment
in the action of itself adds or detracts from his legal rights without
reference to rights and duties not involved in the litigation.”  (Continental
Vinyl Products Corp. v. Mead Corp. (1972) 27 Cal.App.3d 543, 549 (“Mead
Corp.”).)  “An interest is consequential and thus insufficient for
intervention when the action in which intervention is sought does not directly
affect it although the results of the action may indirectly benefit or harm its
owner.”  (Id. at p. 550.) 
 
“Intervention may . . . be allowed in the
insurance context, where third party claimants are involved, when the insurer
is allowed to take over in litigation if its insured is not defending an
action, to avoid harm to the insurer.”  (Royal Indemnity Co. v. United
Enterprises, Inc. (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 194, 206 (“Royal Indemnity Co.”).) 
For example, insurers have been permitted to intervene when the third party has
obtained a default against the insured (Jade K. v. Viguri (1984) 210
Cal.App.3d 1459, 1473-1474 (“Jade K.”)), or where the insured’s answer
has been stricken because its corporate status has been suspended (Reliance
Insurance Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 383, 385-387 (“Reliance
Insurance Co.”).)
 
B.    Discussion
 
Preliminary,
this Court notes that this motion appears to be attempt at relitigating the Court’s
previous determination to include the names of all known lienholders on the $200,000
in settlement checks.  Defendants,
Dorothy Kovich Klein and Thomas Kovich’s previous Motion to Enforce Settlement.
On January 12, 2024, this Court heard Defendants Klein and Kovich’s Motion to
Enforce Settlement, which sought that this Court allow the $200,000 settlement
amount to be paid in its entirety to Plaintiff, Anna Mezheritsky. On January
12, 2024, this Court held that it was not inclined to change its reasoning for
the multiple payee requirement of its order granting the previous motion to
enforce settlement, because doing so would invite the filing of additional
lawsuits by lienholders to enforce their lien rights against persons or parties
including defense counsel who have knowledge of the liens but who filed to
provide for satisfaction of those liens in the settlement. 
 
The
attached proposed Complaint-in-Intervention filed on behalf of Liberty by
Defendants, Dorothy Kovich Klein and Thomas Kovich alleges one cause of action
for declaratory relief. The Complaint-in-Intervention (“CII”) seeks a judicial
determination of its rights and duties that Liberty has a duty to pay a
settlement amount to the plaintiff, and desires to fulfill its duty by paying
the entirety of the settlement check to Plaintiff, Anna Mezheritsky, and that
the issues pertaining to the satisfaction of any and all liens be determined by
this Court (Proposed CII, ¶ 14.)   The Court
is inclined to GRANT the motion and allow the parties to posture the case for a
hearing, and the submission of admissible evidence, bearing on has previously
only been a declaration by counsel stating that “[t]he insurance carrier
informed Mr. Feldman that his request cannot be fulfilled because the system
does not allow a single check to be payable to 7 payees.” (Declaration of Brett
Hampton filed Concurrently with Defendants’ Motion to Enforce Settlement, ¶ 4.)

 
The trial court has the discretion to
allow intervention where the proper procedures are followed, provided: (1) the
intervenor has a direct and immediate interest in the litigation, (2) the
intervention will not enlarge the issues in the case, and (3) the reasons for
intervention outweigh opposition by the existing parties.”  (Hinton v.
Beck (2009) 176 Cal.4th 1378, 1382-1383.)
 
The Court exercises its discretion to
permit the intervenor to move forward with its effort to bring this litigation
to a close.  The Motion is GRANTED, and Liberty
Mutual shall file its proposed Complaint in Intervention as a stand-alone document,
not as an exhibit or attachment to any other document, within five court days
of this ruling.  The Court also encourages
the parties to consider whether interpleading the funds or depositing the funds
with the Court, with a mechanism for lien claims to be resolved, be negotiated
among the lien claimants.  
 
Notice to be given by Liberty
Mutual.  
 
                
 
 
 
 
 
 
 