 Case Number:  23TRCV04039    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 June 7, 2024¿¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23TRCV04039
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Ayline A. Amirayan
v. Ford Motor Company, et al. ¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant, Ford Motor Company and
Autonation Ford Torrance
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiff,
Ayline A. Amirayan
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        None set.
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Demurrer¿to 5th and 7th causes of
action in the First Amended Complaint
¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) SUSTAINED without leave
to amend as to the 5th
cause of action and a discussion as to leave to amend the SUSTAINED Demurrer to
the 7th cause of action.
 
 
¿¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
On December 4, 2023,
Plaintiff, Ayline A. Amirayan (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against
Defendants, Ford Motor Company, Autonation Ford Torrance, and DOES 1 through
10. On March 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
alleging causes of action for: (1) Violation of Civil Code § 1793.2(d); (2)
Violation of Civil Code § 1793.2(b); (3) Violation of Civil Code §
1793.2(a)(3); (4) Breach of the Implied Warranty of Merchantability – Civil
Code § 1791.1, 1794, and 1795.5; (5) Negligent Repair; (6) Violation of the
Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act; and (7) Fraudulent Inducement - Concealment
 
Previously, Defendant,
Ford Motor Company (“Ford”) filed a demurrer to the original complaint arguing
that Plaintiff’s Fifth Cause of Action for Negligent Repair and Seventh Cause
of Action for Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment failed because they are
barred by the economic loss rule and failed to state sufficient facts to state
a cause of action against Ford. This Court, on February 20, 2024, sustained
with leave to amend the demurrer. 
 
Defendant, Ford Motor
Company (“Ford”) now files demurrer as to the Fifth and Seventh causes of
action of Plaintiff’s FAC. 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
            On April 23, 2024, Ford Motor Company, and Peyton Cramer
Ford dba Autonation Ford Torrance filed a Demurrer. On May 24, 2024, Plaintiff
filed an opposition brief. On May 31, 2024, Defendants filed a reply brief. 
 
 
II. GROUNDS FOR DEMURRER
& MOTION TO STRIKE 
 
            Defendants demur to Plaintiff’s FAC on the grounds that
they argue the Fifth Cause of Action for Negligent Repair fails to allege facts
sufficient to state a cause of action and is barred by the economic loss rule.
Further, Defendants demur to the seventh cause of action for fraudulent concealment
on the grounds that they argue the FAC fails to state facts sufficient to state
a cause of action. 
 
III. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Demurrer
 
A demurrer can be used
only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack
or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint
need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary
fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart
Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of
testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth
of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co.
(1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A pleading is uncertain
if it is ambiguous or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer for uncertainty may
lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders the complaint so
confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to respond to.¿ (Williams
v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)
However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a
complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified
under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)¿
 
Negligent Repair 
 
            Preliminarily,
this Court notes that Defendants made similar arguments in their previous
demurrer to the original complaint. As such, the Court will be referencing its
previous tentative ruling and will forgo the lengthy analysis it provided for
the previous hearing. 
 
Economic Loss Rule 
Demurring
Defendants again argue that Plaintiff’s Fifth Cause of action for Negligent
Repair against Defendant, AutoNation fails because it is barred by the economic
loss rule. Previously,
this Court sustained the demurrer as to this cause of action because it found
that Plaintiff’s original complaint, as pled, was barred by the economic loss
rule.  Plaintiff’s opposition to the
demurrer to the original complaint urged this Court to find that the economic
loss rule did not apply to her negligent repair claims where subcomponents of a
vehicle cause damage to a larger component or where the component caused damage
to the vehicle into which it had been incorporated. However, the Court found
that Plaintiff’s former argument was not aligned with the pleading in this case
because Plaintiff’s original Complaint had not asserted a claim for strict
liability, did not include allegations that AutoNation manufactured any part,
much less a defective part that caused harm to Plaintiff’s vehicle. Further,
this Court noted that although Plaintiff’s original complaint asserted that AutoNation is in the
business of selling automobiles and automobile component parts (Complaint, ¶
5), Plaintiff’s allegations against AutoNation only referenced the repair
aspect of AutoNation’s business and its alleged failure to properly store,
prepare, and repair the Subject Vehicle. (Complaint, ¶¶ 5, 57-59.)
 
In
urging the application of the component exception in Plaintiff’s previous
opposition brief, Plaintiff relied on an unpublished federal case. The theory
of that case was that a negligent repair claim may properly be asserted on
allegation that subcomponent part caused damage to other parts of the vehicle.
However, Plaintiff’s original complaint did not discuss AutoNation’s allegedly using
defective component parts, nor did the original complaint allege property
damage to other components, nor did it allege bodily injury. As such, this
Court reasoned that Plaintiff could not, for the first time in her opposition
brief, rely on this argument about a component parts exception. Instead, this
Court noted the original complaint alleged contract damages, not tort damages,
despite Plaintiff’s argument that a tort theory should be permitted to move
forward. Based on this, and other grounds, the Court sustained the demurrer. 
 
Here,
Plaintiff’s FAC does not cure the defects of the original complaint identified
by this Court. First, it does not appear that Plaintiff has added any
allegations of injury to person or property here. Although Plaintiff alleges,
in a conclusory way, that she has been damaged in the form of general,
specific, actual, incidental, consequential, penalties, and general damages
(FAC, ¶¶ 67, 69), there is no indication as to how. Plaintiff again, in a
conclusory way, also alleges that Plaintiff was harmed by purchasing the
vehicle because she unknowingly exposed herself to the risk of liability,
accident and injury (FAC, ¶¶ 33, 86), however, risk of future harm is not an
allegation of actual injury to person or property. 
 
Next,
as to Plaintiff’s revived subcomponent parts argument, Plaintiff has failed to
allege anything akin to what the Court gave as hypothetically instructive to a
potential successful future pleading (i.e., a possible allegation that
AutoNation used defective component parts in the subject vehicle). In fact,
Plaintiff has kept the same, single allegation that AutoNation sells automobile
component parts (FAC, ¶ 5; Complaint, ¶ 5.) This was unsuccessful in the
previous demurrer opposition and is again as to the FAC. The fact that a
dealership has a parts department and sells automotive replacement parts in the
abstract is of no moment to the legitimacy of the 5th cause of
action without an allegation that one of those automotive replacement parts was
used in or installed in the subject vehicle, and that such an installed part
was allegedly defective such as to cause damage to other systems, aspects, or
components in the subject vehicle.  Plaintiff
again uses the federal and unpublished cases this Court need not reanalyze.
Because Plaintiff has failed to include, or even attempt to include, any
allegations that may cure the defects identified by this Court in its February
20, 2024 minute order, this Court assumes Plaintiff will not be able to
successfully overcome the economic loss rule in future pleadings. Thus, the
Court’s tentative ruling is to SUSTAIN demurrer as to the Fifth Cause of Action
for Negligent Repair without leave to amend. Because of this tentative
decision, the Court need not reach the insufficiency of the facts pled section
as the demurrer as to this cause of action is barred by the economic loss rule.

 
 
Fraud – Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment 
Insufficient Facts Pleaded 
 
Demurring Defendants again argue that
Plaintiff has failed to allege sufficient facts to state a cause of action for
fraud against Ford because Plaintiff failed to plead Duty either through direct
transactional relationship, exclusive knowledge, active concealment, or partial
representations while suppressing material facts. In this Court’s February 20,
2024 minute order, it did not agree with Demurring Defendants’ arguments as to Plaintiff’s
cause of action not being detailed enough, or Defendants’ narrow reading of the
requirements of alleging a concealment cause of action. Instead, what
manifested this Court’s previous sustaining of the demurrer to this cause of
action was the fact that Plaintiff’s original complaint lacked any allegation
that AutoNation was an authorized dealership. This was because Plaintiff relied
heavily on Dhital v. Nissan N. America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828
(“Dhital”). 
 
Unlike some other manufacturers such as
Tesla, Ford does not sell or lease its vehicles directly to the consuming
public.  The direct transactional relationship
test in several of the published decisions bears on the ability of a Lemon Law
plaintiff to survive a pleading challenge to a fraud or fraudulent concealment
cause of action.  See Civil Code §1572
(fraud committed “by a party to the contract”); LiMandri v. Judkins
(1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 337.  “Such a
transaction must necessarily arise from direct dealings between the plaintiff
and the defendant; it cannot arise between the defendant and the public at
large.”  (Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc.
(2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 312.)  In Bigler-Engler,
the Fourth District distinguished the duty of a manufacturer to disclose in the
personal injury / product liability context where plaintiff’s injury is bodily
injury or death, rather than the fraud context where the plaintiff’s injury is
one of economic loss.  That distinction makes
a difference to this Court.  Plaintiff
here does not allege he was fraudulently induced to enter into a warranty
contract with Ford; instead, he alleged he was fraudulently induced to purchase
the subject vehicle from AutoNation which is not even alleged to be a Ford-authorized
dealer.  The Court is mindful that the
Second District in the Dhital case concluded that Nissan’s authorized
dealerships are agents for purposes of sale of Nissan vehicles, thus rejecting
the defense argument that the lack of a transactional relationship directly
between Nissan and the Lemon Law plaintiff there barred a duty to
disclose.  But the California Supreme Court
chose to grant review of Dhital rather than denying the Petition,
suggestive that it will not be unequivocally affirming the Second District’s
decision.  Perhaps the California Supreme
Court will clarify whether California permits a fraud claim against any manufacturer
who learns of repair issues and publishes repair procedures to the NHTSA but
does not provide a pre-sale list or booklet of repair procedures for every prospective
consumer of its product.  This Court does
not believe that such a claim is authorized under California law, at least not
on the allegations in this case.
 
A series of recent Central District of
California decisions cast doubt on the vitality of Dhital’s
determination that the allegations in that case were sufficient to state a
cause of action.  The court in Antonov
v. General Motors LLC (C.D. Cal., Jan. 19, 2024, No. 823CV01593 FWSMJR)
2024 WL 217825, at *11 noted that “in Dhital the California Court of
Appeal conducted limited substantive analysis of the plaintiffs' transactional
relationship allegations due to the defendant's failure to fully brief the
argument.”   Antonov found Dhital's
“cursory analysis” of the direct transactional relationship issue was
unconvincing, given the Second District’s failure to even cite to Bigler-Engler
or other California precedent governing transactional relationships, and given
the Second District’s failure to address the numerous cases holding that automobile
dealerships are not the agents of manufacturers.  (Id;
Condrashoff v. General Motors LLC (E.D. Cal., May 23, 2024, No.
2:24-CV-00108-DAD-DB) 2024 WL 2399645, at *5; Kuehl v. General Motors LLC
(C.D. Cal., Nov. 17, 2023, No. 2:23-CV-06980-SB-SK) 2023 WL 8353784, at *3.)  See also Tappana v. Am. Honda Motor
Co., 609 F. Supp. 3d 1078, 1088 (C.D. Cal. 2022) (explaining that to plead
a claim based on fraud by omission, the plaintiff “must both describe the
content of the omission and where the omitted information should or could have
been revealed”).
 
Although Plaintiff here alleged many of the
same factors the Court in Dhital found to be sufficiently alleged in
that case, a crucial component missing from Plaintiff’s original allegations
was that AutoNation was an authorized dealership, another requirement
identified in Dhital.  Despite
this Court identifying this deficiency for Plaintiff in the original complaint,
Plaintiff again fails to allege whether AutoNation is an authorized Ford dealership.
Without this allegation, Plaintiff may not maintain this cause of action
against Ford on a Dhital theory. 
 
Next, as to the exclusive knowledge
argument, this Court previously noted that the original complaint was
vague and unclear as to whether Plaintiff would have not purchased the Mustang
if the TSB information alone had been disclosed or whether even with knowledge
of the TSB information Plaintiff would not have made the purchase had the
pre-production testing and early consumer complaint information been concealed
form the public. This vagueness made it difficult for the Court to allow a
fraud claim to pass muster at the pleading stage when some or perhaps all of
the same information in the publicly disclosed TSBs was the claimed material
concealment in the pre-production testing and early consumer complaint
information that was not publicly disclosed. The Court invited argument from
Plaintiff as to what might be alleged in an amended pleading if the Court were
to grant leave to amend this vagueness.
 
Here,
Plaintiff has added the self-serving contention that she would not have
purchased the subject vehicle, or would have paid less for it, had Plaintiff
known of the transmission defect, given the allegedly unsafe nature of the
Defect. (FAC, ¶ 33.) Plaintiff has also included more TSBs in this pleading.
However, this does not negate the fact that the TSBs existed, thus proving that
Ford did not have exclusive knowledge but rather the knowledge was disclosed to
the general public through a publicly available TSB. Further, Plaintiff again
argues about the pre-production and post-production testing data (FAC, ¶¶ 26,
77, 80(a).) However, again, it is unclear whether Plaintiff would have not
purchased the Mustang if the TSB information alone had been disclosed, or
whether even with knowledge of the TSB information Plaintiff would not have
made the purchase had the pre-production testing and early consumer complaint
information been concealed form the public. Did Plaintiff look up TSBs prior to
purchasing the vehicle from AutoNation? Were the defects identified in the TSBs
different from the ones suffered by Plaintiff’s vehicle? Without curing the
Court’s identified pleading flaws from the original Complaint, this Court
cannot allow Plaintiff’s cause of action to stand as currently alleged. As
such, tentatively the Demurrer to the 7th cause of action is
SUSTAINED with one last try a leave to amend if Plaintiff can articulate what can
be alleged that has not yet been. 
 
Lastly, Demurring Defendants also argue again that
Plaintiff’s Complaint fails to allege that Ford actively concealed a material
fact from Plaintiff. This Court agrees as it noted in its previous ruling that
the very issuance of publicly available TSBs demonstrates an absence of
affirmative concealment. This Court reiterates its February 20, 2024 ruling and
notes that unless Plaintiff is alleging that the TSBs which were issued
neglected to mention the nature of transmission issues Plaintiff experienced
herself, the Court would be inclined to find that there could not be
affirmative, active, intentional concealment of repair issues discussed in a
published TSB. The contention that Ford has “superior knowledge” or was in a
“superior position” to Plaintiff does not, in the Court’s view, satisfy the
“exclusive” knowledge requirement giving rise to a duty to disclose. Every
manufacturer and issuer of repair instructions has knowledge superior to a
retail buyer about technical and repair issues. The mere existence of knowledge
that some prior models have experienced customer complaints is not, in the
Court’s view, sufficient by itself to establish an affirmative duty to disclose
the existence of such complaints for purposes of alleging a punitive damages
cause of action for fraud. The demurrer as to the Seventh Cause of Action for
Fraudulent Concealment is thus SUSTAINED. 
 
IV. CONCLUSION¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
For the foregoing reasons, Demurring
Defendants’ Demurrer is SUSTAINED, without leave to amend as to the 5th
cause of action and a discussion as to whether leave to amend should be
permitted as to the 7th cause of action.
 
Demurring Defendants are
ordered to give notice. 
¿¿¿ 