  Case Number:  23CHCV03643    Hearing Date:   July 19, 2024    Dept:  F51  JULY 18, 2024    DEMURRER  Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 23CHCV03643    Demurrer filed: 4/2/24   MOVING PARTY: Cross-Defendant DoorDash, Inc. (“Cross-Defendant”) RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant/Cross-Complainant  Jorge Pantoja (“Cross-Complainant”) NOTICE: OK    RELIEF REQUESTED: Cross-Defendant  demurs to Cross-Complainant’s entire cross-complaint.   TENTATIVE RULING: The demurrer is sustained with 30  days leave to amend.   BACKGROUND    This is a premises liability action  in which Plaintiff alleges that on 9/26/22, she was attacked and injured by  Defendants’ two dogs while she and her brother were delivering food to  Defendants’ residence located at 13886 Filmore St., Pacoima, California 91331.  (Compl. ¶¶ 1, 9–14.) Plaintiff alleges that Cross-Complainant is the landlord  of the subject property. (Id. at ¶ 5.)   On 11/29/23, Plaintiff filed her complaint,  alleging against Defendants the following causes of action: (1) Negligence; (2)  Premises Liability; (3) Strict Liability; and (4) Punitive Damages. On 3/1/24,  Cross-Complainant filed his answer.   On 3/4/24, Cross-Complainant filed  his cross-complaint, alleging the following causes of action: (1) Equitable  Indemnity; (2) Equitable Apportionment; (3) Contribution; and (4) Declaratory  Relief. On 4/2/24, Cross-Defendant filed the instant demurrer. On 4/24/24, Cross-Complainant  served his opposition.[1] On  4/30/24, Cross-Defendant filed its reply.   ANALYSIS   As a general matter, a party may respond to a pleading  against it by demurrer on the basis of any single or combination of eight  enumerated grounds, including that “the pleading does not state facts  sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.  (e).) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the  pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.  (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿   “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence  or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs.  (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the  complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The  only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,  states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th  740, 747.)    Here, Cross-Defendant¿demurs  against Cross-Complainant’s entire cross-complaint, on the bases that Cross-Complainant  fails¿to allege facts sufficient any of the causes of action contained therein.   A.    Meet-and-Confer   Cross-Defendant’s counsel declares that he met and  conferred telephonically with Cross-Complainant’s counsel to discuss the issues  raised in the instant demurrer, but the parties were unable to come to a  resolution. (Decl. of Scot J. Rothmeyer, ¶ 2a.) Therefore, counsel has  satisfied the preliminary meet and confer requirements of Code of Civil  Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a).   B.      Factual Sufficiency   Cross-Complainant  alleges against Cross-Defendant the following causes of action: (1) Equitable  Indemnity; (2) Equitable Apportionment; (3) Contribution; and (4) Declaratory  Relief. “To state a claim for equitable indemnity, a defendant must allege the  same harm for which he may be held liable is properly attributable—at least in  part—to the cross-defendant.” (Platt v. Coldwell Banker Residential Real  Estate Services (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 1439, 1445, fn.7.) A claim for contribution  requires allegations of (1) “a money judgment,” (2) “rendered jointly against  two or more defendants in a tort action,” (3) “in accordance with the  principles of equity,” (4) “after one tortfeasor has, by payment, discharged  the joint judgment or has paid more than his pro rata share thereof,” (5)  without intentional injury by the tortfeasor. (Code Civ. Proc. § 875, subds.  (a)-(d).) “To qualify for declaratory relief, a party would have to demonstrate  its action presented two essential elements: (1) a proper subject of  declaratory relief, and (2) an actual controversy involving justiciable  questions relating to the party’s rights or obligations.” (Jolley v. Chase  Home Finance, LLC (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909.)   Here,  Cross-Defendant argues that “neither Plaintiff’s original complaint nor  Pantoja’s Cross-Complaint allege any conduct by DoorDash whatsoever.” (Dem. 4:12–13.)  Specifically, Cross-Defendant argues that “the Cross-Complaint contains no  substantive factual allegations regarding the underlying incident or the  relationship of either Lopez or DoorDash to the incident, but instead  incorporates by reference the allegations of the original Complaint. (Id.  at 4:28–5:2, citing Cross-Compl. ¶ 8.)   Cross-Defendant  maintains that the cross-complaint must fail because “Plaintiff Prieto has no  claim for liability against DoorDash, and indeed is not seeking any recovery  from DoorDash. (See Compl.) Further, DoorDash cannot be held liable to  Plaintiff Prieto on any legal theory. It is not alleged that Prieto herself was  operating as an independent contractor with DoorDash. Even if the  Cross-Complaint were amended to allege that Prieto’s brother was operating as a  contractor with DoorDash when she entered the Property, Prieto could still not  assert a theory of liability against DoorDash as Prieto has no relationship  with DoorDash, and her entering the Property was in no way connected with  DoorDash.” (Dem. 7:5–11.)   Cross-Complainant  argues in opposition that “a relationship such as employer/employee  relationship did not need to exist between Plaintiff and Door Dash [sic] for  Door Dash to be liable to Plaintiff for injuries that came about as a result of  Door Dash’s negligence.” (Opp. 6:16–18.) Cross-Complainant also presents  factual allegations extrinsic to his cross-complaint. (Id. at 7:1–15.)  To this extent, the Court declines to consider these additional facts as they  are not alleged in either Plaintiff’s complaint or Cross-Complainant’s  cross-complaint. Upon further review of both the complaint and cross-complaint,  the Court finds no factual allegations stated pertaining to Cross-Defendant’s  alleged conduct. Furthermore, Plaintiff did not name Cross-Defendant as a  defendant in this action. To the extent that Cross-Complainant purportedly  discovered facts to support a claim for indemnity against Cross-Defendant,  those facts are not alleged in his cross-complaint.   Cross-Complainant  further argues that Cross-Defendant may be held vicariously liable under a  theory of respondeat superior. (Id. at 7:16–24.) “The rule of respondeat  superior is familiar and simply stated: an employer is vicariously liable for  the torts of its employees committed within the scope of the employment.” (Lisa  M. v. Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital (1995) 12 Cal.4th 291, 296.)  Here, the Court notes that Cross-Complainant raises this theory of liability  without applying factual allegations, whether alleged in the pleadings or  otherwise. However, as Cross-Defendant notes in reply, no employer/employee  relationship between Cross-Defendant and any party is alleged here in either of  the operative pleadings, nor any tort of any purported employee. “Without an  underlying tortious act by an employee acting within the course and scope of  employment, no respondeat superior liability may attach.” (Reply 3:25–27,  citing Yamaguchi v. Harnsmut (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 472, 477.)   Based on  the foregoing, the Court finds that Cross-Complainant has not alleged facts  sufficient to constitute any causes of action against Cross-Defendant.  Accordingly, the demurrer is sustained against the entire cross-complaint on  this basis.   C.     Leave to Amend   The Court  notes that Cross-Complainant specifically requests leave to amend in the event  the Court sustain the instant demurrer, and that this is the first demurrer  brought against Cross-Complainant’s cross-complaint. Therefore, under the  Court’s liberal policy of granting leave to amend, Cross-Complainant is granted  30 days leave to amend the cross-complaint to cure the defects set forth above.   CONCLUSION    The demurrer is sustained with 30 days leave to amend.     