 Case Number:  23STCP01878    Hearing Date:   July 19, 2024    Dept:  F51 
JULY 18, 2024
 

MOTION TO
DISQUALIFY COUNSEL

Los Angeles Superior Court Case
# 23STCP01878

  
Motions Filed: 2/13/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Natalie Davidson
(“Plaintiff”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendants Zoya Vladimirskaya;
and Cardea Hospice & Palliative Care (collectively, “Defendants”) 
NOTICE: OK
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order disqualifying Michael T.
Stoller and his law firm, Stoller Law Group, APLC, from representing Defendants
in the instant action and any related actions.
 
TENTATIVE RULING: The motion is off calendar as moot.
 
Plaintiff is reminded to review the 5/3/19 First Amended
General Order Re Mandatory Electronic Filing for Civil. When e-filing
documents, parties must comply with the “TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS” which are set
forth at page 4, line 4 through page 5, line 12 of the Court’s 5/3/19 First
Amended General Order Re Mandatory Electronic Filing for Civil (particularly bookmarking
declarations and exhibits). (CRC 3.1110(f)(4).) Failure to comply with these
requirements in the future may result in papers being rejected, matters being
placed off calendar, matters being continued so documents can be resubmitted in
compliance with these requirements, documents not being considered and/or the
imposition of sanctions.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action concerns a business
dispute between Plaintiff and Defendant Vladimirskaya, who are equal sole
shareholders, directors, and officers of nominal Defendant Cardea Hospice &
Palliative Care (“Cardea”). (Compl. ¶¶
7–9.) Plaintiff alleges that on 2/7/23, Vladimirskaya tendered her resignation as an
officer of Cardea and offered to sell her shares. (Id. at ¶ 10.)
Plaintiff further alleges that Vladimirskaya, inter alia, wrongfully converted corporate funds to
herself and others, attempted to evict Cardea from its rental unit, and
demanded that the business be shut down. (Id. at ¶ 12.)
 
On 5/31/23, Plaintiff filed her complaint, individually and
on behalf of Cardea, alleging against Defendants the following causes of
action: (1) Breach of Fiduciary Duty (against Vladimirskaya); (2) Conversion (against Vladimirskaya); (3) Money Had and Received
(against Vladimirskaya);
(4) Declaratory Relief (against Defendants); and (5) Removal Pursual to
Corporations Code § 304 (against Defendants). On 9/14/23, Defendants filed
their answer.
 
On 2/13/24, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to disqualify.
No oppositions have been filed to date. On 7/15/24, Defendants filed a
substitution of attorney stating that they are now represented by Christopher
J. Hamner of Hamner Law Offices, APLC.
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court
finds that the motion to disqualify Defendants’ counsel is therefore moot. The
Court notes that this conclusion does not preclude Plaintiff from bringing a
new motion to disqualify against Defendants’ new counsel. The Court also
acknowledges that should a new motion be filed, based on the Court’s impacted
calendar, the new date may significantly delay this matter.  Therefore, Plaintiff’s counsel is invited to
call the Court to inquire about advancing any distant reserved motion date.
 
¿ 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is off calendar as moot.