..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the YAML summary:

```
Case Number: 23TRCV01205
Plaintiff's Name: Nazanin Soleimany, Connor Mackey, Ziba Soleimany
Defendant's Name: Abdul J. Sheriff, C On Adams, LLC, Eagle Eye Home & Sewer Line Inspection Group LLC
People Names: Nazanin Soleimany, Connor Mackey, Ziba Soleimany, Abdul J. Sheriff, C On Adams
Company Names: Eagle Eye Home & Sewer Line Inspection Group LLC, C On Adams, LLC
Places: Inglewood, Los Angeles, California
Dates: April 18, 2023, August 11, 2022, August 17, 2022, August 20, 2022
Events: Purchase of property, Inspection report, Demurrer to complaint
Money: Breach of contract, Breach of fiduciary duties, Intentional misrepresentation, Negligent misrepresentation, Breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing
Intentions: To resolve disputes and clarify the legal issues
Facts: Plaintiffs purchased property, defendant Eagle Eye Home & Sewer Line Inspection Group LLC performed inspection, defendant sellers made disclosures, plaintiffs discovered defects
Disputes: Breach of contract, Breach of fiduciary duties, Intentional misrepresentation, Negligent misrepresentation, Breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing
Acts: Purchase of property, Inspection report, Disclosures, Discovery of defects
Agreements: Real Estate Transfer Disclosure Statement, Seller Property Questionnaire
Laws: Civil Code ยง1101.3, Civil Code ยง1709, Business and Professions Code ยง7196, Cal. App. 4th 1216, Cal. App. 3d 902, Cal. App. 4th 740
Case Citations: Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power, SKF Farms v. Superior Court, Hahn v. Mirda, Charnay v. Cobert, Wolf v. Superior Court, Thompson v. Cannon
Statutes: Business and Professions Code ยง7196
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant, Inspector, Seller
Significant Statements:
- The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th causes of action.
- The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the 6th cause of action.
- The court finds that the allegations are insufficient to show a fiduciary relationship or that defendant owed a fiduciary duty to plaintiffs.
- The court finds that the allegations are insufficient to plead with the required specificity.
- A home inspector may be sued in tort for the negligent failure to disclose material defects in a home.
- The court finds that the allegations are sufficient that defendant had a duty of care (based other than in contract) to plaintiffs.
```

Here is a brief summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English:

The judge has issued a tentative ruling on a demurrer to a complaint filed by Nazanin Soleimany, Connor Mackey, and Ziba Soleimany against Abdul J. Sheriff, C On Adams, LLC, and Eagle Eye Home & Sewer Line Inspection Group LLC. The demurrer was filed by the defendants to dismiss the complaint. The judge has sustained the demurrer with 20 days leave to amend as to the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th causes of action, which are for breach of fiduciary duties, intentional misrepresentation, and negligent misrepresentation. The judge has overruled the demurrer as to the 6th cause of action, which is for negligence. The judge has given the defendants notice of the ruling.
