 Case Number:  23TRCV01205    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
NAZANIN
  SOLEIMANY, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV01205




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
ABDUL
  J. SHERIFF, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          February 1,
2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant Eagle Eye Home & Sewer Line Inspection
Group LLC
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiffs Nazanin Soleimany, et al.
Demurrer to Complaint
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH 20
DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th
causes of action and OVERRULED as to the 6th cause of action in the
complaint.
BACKGROUND
            On April 18, 2023, plaintiffs
Nazanin Soleimany, Connor Mackey, and Ziba Soleimany filed a complaint against
Abdul J. Sheriff, C On Adams, LLC, and Eagle Eye Home & Sewer Line
Inspection Group LLC for (1) breach of written contract, (2) breach of fiduciary
duties, (3) intentional misrepresentation, (4) negligent misrepresentation, (5)
fraud by concealment, (6) negligence, and (7) breach of covenant of good faith
and fair dealing.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
DISCUSSION
Defendant Eagle Eye Home &
Sewer Inspection demurs to the 2nd, 3rd, 4th,
and 6th causes of action on the ground that they fail to state
sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action.
The complaint alleges that on
August 11, 2022, plaintiffs entered into an agreement to buy the subject
property located at 2916 W. 83rd St., Inglewood.  Complaint, ¶8.  Plaintiffs followed the Sellers’ Disclosures
and the advice and recommendations of professionals, specifically, defendant
Eagle in making the decisions that are the subject of this complaint and which
have proved to result in substantial loss. 
Id., ¶9.  In early August 2022,
defendant Abdul and defendant Adams accepted plaintiffs’ offer of purchase for
the property.  Id., ¶10.  On August 17, 2022, defendant sellers
gave/made certain disclosures in the Real Estate Transfer Disclosure Statement
regarding the condition of the property, including the plumbing and the
windows.  Defendant sellers indicated, in
those disclosures, that there were no non-compliant plumbing fixtures; that
there were no material defects; and that there were no defects with the water,
sewer, or septic system; and roof.  Id., ¶11.  Defendant sellers, in the Real Estate Transfer
Disclosure Statement, stated that the defendant sellers were not aware of any
“[f]looding, drainage, or grading problems.” 
Id., ¶12.  Defendant sellers also
made the following disclosure representations in the Seller Property
Questionnaire:  a. there were no plumbing
fixtures that were non-compliant plumbing fixtures as defined by Civil Code §1101.3;
b. there were no material facts or defects affecting the property not otherwise
disclosed to buyer; c. there were no defects in any of the following (including
past defects that have been repaired):  .
. . . plumbing (including the presence of polybutylene pipes), water, sewer,
waste disposal or septic system, sump pumps, . . . , drainage, . . . , windows
. . . .; d. defendant sellers were not aware of any past or present known
material facts or other significant items affecting the value or desirability
of the property not otherwise disclosed to buyer; e. no issues of water
intrusion into any part of the physical structure; and f. that there were no
defects/malfunctions in the roof, windows, foundation, plumbing, and other
structural components.  Id., ¶13.  Defendant sellers made significant
improvement on the property in order to sell the property at a profit.  Id., ¶14.
The complaint further alleges that
defendant sellers knew or should have known that the representations made in
the Seller Disclosure were false and that any reliance on those representations
would be to the detriment of the purchaser. 
Id., ¶15.  After moving in,
plaintiffs learned that the plumbing was non-compliant and/or defective.  Id., ¶16. 
Defendant sellers also represented that the windows installed on the
property were brand new and the roof was new or newer.  Id., ¶17. 
After moving into the property, plaintiffs had the windows investigated
after a significant leak occurred and were forced to install and remedy the
defects in the windows.  Id., ¶18.  Plaintiffs also had inspection performed on
the roof and the entire roof needed replacing and there was water intrusion in
the attic spaces, which established that the roof was poorly
constructed/renovated.  Id., ¶19.
The complaint further alleges that
on August 20, 2022, defendant Eagle performed an inspection and submitted to
plaintiffs and defendant sellers an inspection report.  The inspection report contained material
representations/recommendations that were not up to industry standards and
outlined items that should have been identified as needing repair.  Id., ¶21. 
Defendant Eagle owed a duty to plaintiffs to accurately and properly
identify certain items in the inspection report and failed to comply with the
duty of care owed to plaintiffs.  Id., ¶22.  After moving in, plaintiffs learned that the
plumbing was non-compliant and/or defective, contrary to the inspection
report.  Id., ¶23.  Defendant Eagle represented in the inspection
report that the windows were “serviceable” which means that “it was the opinion
of the inspector that the item is doing the job for which it was intended and
exhibits normal wear and tear.”  Id., ¶24.  After moving into the property, plaintiffs
noticed that the windows were leaking, and had the windows investigated, and
were forced to reinstall and remedy the defects in the windows that should have
been indicated in the inspection report as in needing attention or repair.  Id., ¶25. 
Defendant Eagle inspected the roof and the attic, and the inspection
report only mentioned that there were scattered items in the attic that should
have been removed.  Eagle should have
seen the water intrusion and evidence that the roof was not in good condition
and needed repair.  Id., ¶26.  Since the purchase, plaintiffs have found
numerous issues surrounding the property, including water intrusions in the
crawl space, roof damage, leaky windows, and outdated plumbing, which led to
sewage spilling into the crawl space. 
Id., ¶28.
            2nd
cause of action for breach of fiduciary duties
“To establish a cause of action for
breach of fiduciary duty, a plaintiff must demonstrate the existence of a
fiduciary relationship, breach of that duty and damages.”  Charnay v. Cobert (2006) 145 Cal. App.
4th 170, 182.  “A fiduciary relationship
is any relation existing between parties to a transaction wherein one of the
parties is in duty bound to act with the utmost good faith for the benefit of
the other party.  Such a relation
ordinarily arises where a confidence is reposed by one person in the integrity
of another, and in such a relation the party in whom the confidence is reposed,
if he voluntarily accepts or assumes to accept the confidence, can take no
advantage from his acts relating to the interest of the other party without the
latter's knowledge or consent . . . .”  Wolf
v. Superior Court (2003) 106 Cal. App. 4th 625, 29-30 (citation omitted)
(internal quotations omitted). 
Plaintiffs allege that defendants
had a fiduciary duty with plaintiffs as a result of the nature and extent of
the transaction.  Complaint, ¶34.
Defendant argues that plaintiffs
have failed to allege a fiduciary relationship.
The court finds that the
allegations are insufficient to show a fiduciary relationship or that defendant
owed a fiduciary duty to plaintiffs. 
Plaintiffs have not alleged “the trust, confidence, integrity and
fidelity which are the hallmarks of a fiduciary relationship” between
plaintiffs and the inspector company. 
See Thompson v. Cannon (1990) 224 Cal. App. 3d 1413, 1418.
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND.
3rd cause of action for
intentional misrepresentation
The elements of fraud are:  (1) misrepresentation (false representation,
concealment, or nondisclosure); (2) knowledge of falsity (scienter); (3) intent
to defraud or induce reliance; (4) justifiable reliance; and (5) damages.  See Civil Code §1709.  A fraud claim must be pled with specificity.  Tenet Healthsystem Desert, Inc. v. Blue
Cross of California (2016) 245 Cal. App. 4th 821, 837.  “The particularity requirement demands that a
plaintiff plead facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means
the representations were tendered.”  Cansino
v. Bank of America (2014) 224 Cal. App. 4th 1462, 1469.
Plaintiffs allege that defendants
made a false representation, which ultimately caused plaintiffs harm.  Complaint, ¶45.  Defendants made a clear representation to
plaintiffs that the property was clear of certain defects.  Id., ¶46. 
Defendants’ representation of the service provided was false.  Id., ¶47. 
Plaintiffs believed defendants’ representation of the business’
professionalism and promises; as such, plaintiffs reasonably relied on
defendants’ representation.  Id., ¶48.
Defendants argues that plaintiffs
fail to plead with the required specificity.
The court finds that the
allegations are insufficient.  They are
conclusory and lack specificity. 
Further, plaintiffs do not allege facts to show knowledge of falsity and
intent to defraud or to induce reliance. 

The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND.
4th cause of action for negligent
misrepresentation
The elements of negligent
misrepresentation are: (1) a misrepresentation of a past or existing material
fact, (2) without reasonable grounds for believing it to be true, (3) with
intent to induce another’s reliance on the fact misrepresented, (4) ignorance
of the truth and justifiable reliance thereon by the party to whom the
misrepresentation was directed, and (5) damages. Where the defendant makes
false statements, honestly believing that they are true, but without reasonable
ground for such belief, he may be liable for negligent misrepresentation, a
form of deceit.  B.L.M. v. Sabo & Deitsch (1997) 55 Cal. App. 4th 823, 834.  A plaintiff must allege what was said, by
whom, in what manner (i.e., oral or in writing), when, and, in the case of a
corporate defendant, under what authority to bind the corporation.  See Goldrich v. Natural Y Surgical
Specialties, Inc. (1994) 25 Cal. App. 4th 772, 782.
Defendant argues the same as under
the 2nd cause of action.
The court finds that the
allegations are insufficient.  They are
conclusory and lack specificity. 
Further, plaintiffs do not allege facts to show that defendant made
misrepresentations without reasonable grounds for believing them to be true.
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND.
6th cause of action for
negligence
The complaint alleges that Eagle
had a duty to exercise ordinary care with respect to its obligations under the
contracts and warranties.  Complaint,
¶65.  Eagle’s duty to exercise ordinary
care included the duty to avoid foreseeable injury to plaintiffs by virtue of
plaintiffs’ anticipated reliance on defendants’ compliance with the contracts
and warranties in a professional and workmanlike manner.  Id., ¶66.
Defendant argues that plaintiffs
fail to allege what legal duty of care defendant owed plaintiffs, asserting
that it does not have a duty under a tort theory.
In opposition, plaintiffs argue that
an inspector’s independent duty arises from tort law.  Plaintiffs also cite to Bus. & Prof. Code
§7196, which states, “It is the duty of a home inspector who is not licensed as
a general contractor, structural pest control operator, or architect, or
registered as a professional engineer to conduct a home inspection with the
degree of care that a reasonably prudent home inspector would exercise.”  
The court finds that the
allegations are sufficient that defendant had a duty of care (based other than
in contract) to plaintiffs.  A home
inspector may be sued in tort for the negligent failure to disclose material
defects in a home.  Leko v.
Cornerstone Building Inspection Service (2001) 86 Cal. App. 4th
1109.  See also Bus. & Prof. Code
§7196.  
The demurrer is OVERRULED.
ORDER
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH 20
DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th
causes of action.  The demurrer is
OVERRULED as to the 6th cause of action.
Moving defendant is ordered to give
notice of ruling.