  Case Number:  19TRCV00842    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
JOSEPH
  LOH, et al., 


 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
19TRCV00842




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING – Carruth Motion
 




 
ROBERT
  CARRUTH, et al.,


 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          February 1,
2024
Tentative
Ruling:                  Carruth Motion
Moving
Parties:                     Defendants Robert Carruth, et al.
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Joseph Loh
Motion
to Enforce Terms of Settlement (filed on September 13, 2023)
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers and notice of errata.  The hearing was continued from October 27,
2023 for oral argument.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED.  The court orders that plaintiff Joseph Loh
pay $22,500 in penalties to defendants for violation of Para. L of the
settlement agreement.  The court orders
that plaintiff Loh comply with Para. E within five days by removing “personal
items,” including sandbags and pavers from the compost area.
            Plaintiff Loh is ordered to pay
$8471 in attorney’s fees to defendants.
BACKGROUND
            On September 25, 2019, Joseph Loh
and Joseph Loh as trustee of The Loh Family Trust filed a complaint against
Robert Carruth, Marianne Carruth, The Seager Family Trust, Susan E. Seager as
trustee, and Ray F. Seager as trustee for (1) quiet title, (2) trespass, (3)
private nuisance, (4) malicious prosecution, and (5) IIED.  Plaintiff argues that it is the owner of the
property at 18002 Faysmith Avenue, Torrance and purchased it in 2010.  Defendants are owners of property at 18008
Faysmith Avenue and moved in in May 2012. 
The parties share a fence between the two properties.  In summer 2017, R. Carruth approached
plaintiff Loh about replacing the fence. 
Plaintiff related that due to cost issues, he was not in a position to
do so.  In summer 2018, R. Carruth
approached plaintiff again.  He relayed
that he was not financially able to pay for a new fence.  Thereafter, Loh discovered Carruth removing a
16” by 16” pillar on plaintiff’s property with a jackhammer.  The next day, Carruth installed a gate onto
plaintiff’s property by approximately 14”. 
On March 22, 2019, Carruth had poured cement on plaintiff’s
property.  On March 27, 2019, Loh found
damage to his fence.  To date, the
Carruths continue to take actions to intimidate, harass, scare, and otherwise
bully Loh and his sons.  On June 18,
2019, plaintiff had a topographical survey conducted, which confirmed that a
portion of defendants’ driveway, gate, and yard is encroaching onto plaintiff’s
property.
            On December 17, 2019, Marianne
Carruth filed a cross-complaint against Joseph Loh for (1) easement, (2)
vandalism, and (3) Good Neighbor Act.
            On September 23, 2020, the court
granted cross-complainant Marianne Carruth’s motion for leave to amend
cross-complaint and to join party.
            On October 1, 2020, the FACC was
filed.
            On December 1, 2020, the parties
stipulated to allow filing of a SACC.
            On December 23, 2020, Marianne
Carruth filed the SACC against Joseph Loh, Amy Prout, and Chris Degroot for (1)
easement, (2) vandalism, (3) Good Neighbor Act, (4) breach of contract, and (5)
fraud. 
            On August 17, 2022, plaintiff filed
a notice of conditional settlement.
            On July 21, 2023, the court denied
without prejudice plaintiff’s motion to enforce settlement agreement.
            On October 2, 2023, plaintiff filed
a substitution of attorney.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
CCP §664.6 states:  “If parties to pending litigation stipulate,
in a writing signed by the parties outside the presence of the court or orally
before the court, for settlement of the case, or part thereof, the court, upon
motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement. If
requested by the parties, the court may retain jurisdiction over the parties to
enforce the settlement until performance in full of the terms of the
settlement.”  
“A trial court, when ruling on a
section 664.6 motion, acts as a trier of fact. 
Section 664.6’s ‘express authorization for trial courts to determine
whether a settlement has occurred is an implicit authorization for the trial
court to interpret the terms and conditions to settlement.’”  Skulnick
v. Roberts Express, Inc. (1992) 2 Cal. App. 4th 884, 889 (citation
omitted).
            CCP §187 states:  “When jurisdiction is, by the Constitution or
this Code, or by any other statute, conferred on a Court or judicial officer,
all the means necessary to carry it into effect are also given; and in the
exercise of this jurisdiction, if the course of proceeding be not specifically
pointed out by this Code or the statute, any suitable process or mode of
proceeding may be adopted which may appear most conformable to the spirit of
this Code.”
The
court’s inquiry in ruling on a motion for judgment pursuant to CCP §664.6 is
generally limited to a determination of whether the parties entered into a
valid and binding settlement, and the material terms thereof.  Viejo Bancorp, Inc. v. Wood (1989) 217
Cal. App. 3d 200, 209 n.4.  “Although a
judge hearing a section 664.6 motion may receive evidence, determine disputed
facts, and enter the terms of a settlement agreement as a judgment, nothing in
section 664.6 authorizes a judge to create the material terms of a settlement,
as opposed to deciding what terms the parties themselves have previously agreed
upon.”  Hernandez v. Board of Educ. of
Stockton Unified School Dist. (2004) 126 Cal. App. 4th 1161,
1176.  “The court is powerless to impose
on the parties more restrictive or less restrictive or different terms than
those contained in their settlement agreement.” 
Id.
DISCUSSION
            Defendants
Robert Carruth, Marianne Carruth, and David Seager as trustee of The Seager
Family Trust request an order to enforce the settlement agreement pursuant to
CCP §664.6 as to Paragraph E of the settlement agreement and to enter judgment for
penalties under Paragraph L.
            As
background, the parties entered into a settlement agreement dated August 15,
2022, whereby the defendants [Carruths] agreed to pay plaintiff Loh $25,000
with the final payment due on August 30, 2023. 
Sherry Anne Lear decl., Exh. 1, at Paragraph A.  The Carruths contend that they have paid the
full amount.  Further, the Carruths
agreed to install a 6’ vinyl fence in their backyard with the correct property
line (as established by survey obtained by Loh) at their cost by December 31,
2022.  Id., at Paragraph C.  
            Paragraph
E
Under Paragraph
E, “No later than December 31, 2022, Joseph Loh will remove the compost area
that was installed along the property line and adjacent to the driveway at
18008 Faysmith and remove items of personal property stored in that location.”
Robert
Carruth states in his declaration that “we received notification on December 6,
2022 that Joseph Loh had cleaned upon the “compost” area where he used to have
box bushes.  . . . At the time, items of
personal properly still remained in the area including stacks of cement
pavers.”  R. Carruth decl., ¶2, Exh. 2
(picture dated September 6, 2023).  He
states that Loh has continued to use the formerly designated “compost” area to
store personal items, and that the amount and types of items have increased over
time, and that there are still stacks of unused pavers and sandbags along with
plastic buckets, empty and filled.
In
opposition, plaintiff argues that the terms “stacked,” “items,” “compost area,”
and “personal items” are not defined in the settlement agreement.  Plaintiff also asserts that he is in
compliance with this provision as reflected in the October 9, 2023 photo.  Justin Otten decl., Exh. B; Loh decl.  Plaintiff contends that the only remaining
items in question are several sandbags, and that they are neither within the
bounds of the compost area or personal items.
The court
finds that plaintiff is in violation of Paragraph E to the extent the sandbags,
cement pavers, and buckets remain.
    
Paragraph
L
            Defendants
contend that Loh has breached the settlement agreement under paragraph L, which
states:   
“Effective
immediately, Joseph Loh agrees that he will not stack any items against the
existing vinyl fence in the middle portion of the [Carruth] driveway.  Once the backyard vinyl fence has been
installed, Joseph Loh agrees that he will not stack any items against it.  Joseph Loh will not paint, deface, or
otherwise cause any damage to the existing vinyl fence on the backyard vinyl
fence.  Should action be necessary to
enforce this provision, then the Carruths shall be entitled to payment of the
sum of $500 per day for each day that items remain stacked against the vinyl
fence.”  
            Defendants
request a judgment in the amount of $22,500, consisting of $500/day x 38 days
(August 18, 2022 through September 24, 2022) and $500/day x 7 days (January 7,
2023 to January 13, 2023).
Defendants
assert that Loh violated this material provision and attorney assistance was
required (on multiple occasions) to stop Loh’s violations.  Accordingly, they argue, they are entitled to
penalties because action was necessary to enforce the terms of the agreement.
Marianne
Carruth states in her declaration that after August 15, 2022, Loh did not
comply with Paragraph L, and that as of September 13, 2022, he “still had the
wooden gate held in pace with dirt, sticks and leaves pushed up forcefully
against our fence.”  M. Carruth decl.,
¶¶9, 11, Exh. E (September 15, 2022 picture). 
She states that after their attorney made a demand to remove the gate,
on September 16, 2022, Loh moved the wooden gate so that it was “entirely
behind our vinyl fence but still leaning against it.”  Id., ¶12. 
Their attorney again demanded that the gate be removed so it was not
against defendants’ fence.  Id., ¶13, Exhs. F (September 21 and 22
pictures).  She states that it “was only
sometime around” September 25, 2022 when Loh finally moved the wooden gate so
that it was not touching “our fence in any way.”  She also asserts that they installed a new
vinyl fence in their backyard area in December 2022, and that from January 7 to
January 13, 2023, Loh “leaned up his old termite-infested wooden fence against
the backyard fence.”  Id., ¶14, Exh. G (January 9 picture),
R.
Carruth states in his declaration that after defendants installed the required
fencing in their backyard as of December 26, 2022, Loh took the old wooden
fence, which was full of termite damage, and leaned it up against “our
brand-new fence” and that it was in place from January 7 to January 13, 2023,
and it was removed only after their attorney made a demand that it be
removed.  R. Carruth decl., ¶6, Exh. 4 (photos of fence on January 7, 2023 and January 9, 2023).
Defense
counsel states in her declaration that on September 13, 2022, she sent an email
to plaintiff’s counsel stating “Mr. Loh was to ‘effective immediately’ stop
stacking or leaning items against the vinyl fence in the middle portion of the
driveway.  . . . Please remind Mr. Loh
that my client can seek $500 per day for each day that this condition remains
in place.”
In a
September 14, 2022 email, plaintiff’s counsel states that “[w]e considered it
to be part of the compost area” but that “[i]f you contend the board must be
removed before 12/31, I will discuss with Mr. Loh further so we can come to a
resolution.”  
On
September 15, 2022, defense counsel sent a demand for compliance as to
Paragraph L, stating that “Mr. Loh needs to remove the wooden gate from its
place leaning up against the fencing . . . . Allowing for two days for Mr. Loh
to remove all items stacked against the fence, including the still remaining
wooden gate, this item needed to be taken care of no later than August 18,
2022.  . . . The condition remains in
place and the Carruths, as is their right under the Settlement Agreement, are
demanding the immediate removal of the wooden gate along with the required $500
pers day penalty from August 18, 2022, until the removal of the gate.”
In an
email dated September 20, 2022, defense counsel states that “[t]he gate and
compost are both up against the fence. . . . Mr. Loh remains out of compliance
with Paragraph L.” 
In an
email dated September 21, 2022, plaintiff’s counsel states that she drove by
the property and took her own photographs, and that the “white wooden gate is
not touching the Carruth’s fence.  No
items are stacked against it at all.” 
She also states that she was provided photos from Loh on [September 16]
and “there is nothing ‘stacked’ against the fence.”
In a
letter dated September 27, 2022, defense counsel states that her “clients went
out of town on Friday, September 23, 2022. 
Before they left, the wooden gate was still resting against their fence
. . . . On September 25, 2022, they found the wooden gate was moved so that it
no longer touches the fence.”  Defendants
requested penalties in the amount of $19,000 for 38 days.
On
January 9, 2023, defense counsel sent an email to plaintiff’s counsel stating
that “Mr. Loh has again violated the settlement agreement.  He has placed the much discussed wooden gate
up against the Carruths new fence.  He
has also added the prior, termite infested wood fence that was removed and
replaced when the Carruths put in a vinyl fence.  . . . Each day he continues this is a $500 penalty.”
On
January 15, 2023, defense counsel sent another email stating that Loh
“continues to violate the settlement agreement” and that according to the
photos taken on January 11, 2023, they “show that the old termite-filled fence
is still leaning against the new vinyl fence. . . . Again, each day and each
violation a $500 penalty.”
Defendants
also request attorney’s fees in the amount of $8460 ($300/hr.) plus $71.12 in
filing fees, citing to Paragraph 5, which states, in part:  “The party obtaining enforcement of this
settlement agreement pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §664.6 shall be
entitled to reasonable attorney’s fees.”
In
opposition, Loh argues that the motion is unwarranted and premature because all
issues concerning Paragraph L were resolved in September 2022 and January 2023,
as reflected in communications by defendants’ counsel to plaintiff’s prior
counsel.  Loh also contends that no
“action,” as defined by CCP §22, has been necessary to enforce the settlement
agreement.  Loh further asserts that the settlement
agreement fails to define what constitutes “stacking,” “items,” or the
“stacking of items.”  Loh also argues
that the attorney’s fees requested by defendants are excessive and unwarranted
because the motion is unnecessary.
The court
rules as follows:
The court
finds that Loh is in violation of Paragraph E as sandbags, pavers, and buckets
remain in the compost area, according to plaintiff’s photos.  The terms “stacked” and “items” and “personal
items” are not ambiguous.  Further, both
parties understand the boundaries of the “compost area.”
As to
Paragraph L, as the court previously stated in its ruling on plaintiff’s motion
to enforce settlement, the agreement is not clear and explicit as to what falls
under “[s]hould action be necessary to enforce this provision,” but the
provision does not state “an action” and thus, plaintiff’s counsel’s
interpretation is too narrow.  The
parties do not dispute that defense counsel took action in sending multiple
communications and demand letters to obtain compliance.
The court finds that Loh violated the terms of agreement
in paragraph L and defendants are thus entitled to penalties.  The evidence indicates that Loh was
non-compliant from August 18, 2022 through September 24, 2022 (38 days) and
from January 7, 2023 to January 13, 2023 (7 days).  Thus, the court awards penalties to
defendants in the amount of $22,500 against plaintiff.
            The
court also finds that because defendants obtained enforcement of the settlement
agreement, they are entitled to reasonable attorney’s fees.  The court finds that $8,471 ($300/hr. x 28
hrs.; $71 filing fee) is a reasonable amount to be awarded in favor of
defendants and against plaintiff Loh.
            Accordingly,
the motion is GRANTED.
 
ORDER
            The motion to enforce settlement
agreement is GRANTED.
Plaintiff Joseph Loh is ordered to
pay $22,500 in penalties to defendants for violation of Para. L of the
settlement agreement.
Plaintiff Loh is ordered to comply
with Para. E within five days by removing “personal items,” including sandbags
and pavers from the compost area.
            Plaintiff
is ordered to pay attorney’s fees in the amount of $8,471 to defendants.

            Defendants are ordered to give
notice of ruling.

 
Tentative Ruling:                  Loh Motion
Hearing Date:                          February
1, 2024
Moving Parties:                      Plaintiff Joseph Loh
Responding Party:                  Defendants Robert Carruth, et al.
Motion
to Enforce Settlement Agreement
 
            The
court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The
motion is DENIED.
BACKGROUND
            On
September 25, 2019, Joseph Loh and Joseph Loh as trustee of The Loh Family
Trust filed a complaint against Robert Carruth, Marianne Carruth, The Seager
Family Trust, Susan E. Seager as trustee, and Ray F. Seager as trustee for (1)
quiet title, (2) trespass, (3) private nuisance, (4) malicious prosecution, and
(5) IIED.  Plaintiff argues that it is
the owner of the property at 18002 Faysmith Avenue, Torrance and purchased it
in 2010.  Defendants are owners of
property at 18008 Faysmith Avenue and moved in in May 2012.  The parties share a fence between the two
properties.  In summer 2017, R. Carruth
approached plaintiff Loh about replacing the fence.  Plaintiff related that due to cost issues, he
was not in a position to do so.  In
summer 2018, R. Carruth approached plaintiff again.  He relayed that he was not financially able
to pay for a new fence.  Thereafter, Loh
discovered Carruth removing a 16” by 16” pillar on plaintiff’s property with a
jackhammer.  The next day, Carruth
installed a gate onto plaintiff’s property by approximately 14”.  On March 22, 2019, Carruth had poured cement
on plaintiff’s property.  On March 27,
2019, Loh found damage to his fence.  To
date, the Carruths continue to take actions to intimidate, harass, scare, and
otherwise bully Loh and his sons.  On
June 18, 2019, plaintiff had a topographical survey conducted, which confirmed
that a portion of defendants’ driveway, gate, and yard is encroaching onto
plaintiff’s property.
            On
December 17, 2019, Marianne Carruth filed a cross-complaint against Joseph Loh
for (1) easement, (2) vandalism, and (3) Good Neighbor Act.
            On
September 23, 2020, the court granted cross-complainant Marianne Carruth’s
motion for leave to amend cross-complaint and to join party.
            On
October 1, 2020, the FACC was filed.
            On
December 1, 2020, the parties stipulated to allow filing of a SACC.
            On
December 23, 2020, Marianne Carruth filed the SACC against Joseph Loh, Amy
Prout, and Chris Degroot for (1) easement, (2) vandalism, (3) Good Neighbor
Act, (4) breach of contract, and (5) fraud. 
            On
August 17, 2022, plaintiff filed a notice of conditional settlement.
            On
July 21, 2023, the court denied without prejudice plaintiff’s motion to enforce
settlement agreement.
            On
October 2, 2023, plaintiff filed a substitution of attorney.
LEGAL
AUTHORITY
CCP §664.6 states:  “If parties to pending litigation stipulate,
in a writing signed by the parties outside the presence of the court or orally
before the court, for settlement of the case, or part thereof, the court, upon
motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement. If
requested by the parties, the court may retain jurisdiction over the parties to
enforce the settlement until performance in full of the terms of the
settlement.”  
“A trial court, when ruling on a section 664.6
motion, acts as a trier of fact.  Section
664.6’s ‘express authorization for trial courts to determine whether a
settlement has occurred is an implicit authorization for the trial court to
interpret the terms and conditions to settlement.’”  Skulnick
v. Roberts Express, Inc. (1992) 2 Cal. App. 4th 884, 889 (citation
omitted).
            CCP
§187 states:  “When jurisdiction is, by
the Constitution or this Code, or by any other statute, conferred on a Court or
judicial officer, all the means necessary to carry it into effect are also
given; and in the exercise of this jurisdiction, if the course of proceeding be
not specifically pointed out by this Code or the statute, any suitable process
or mode of proceeding may be adopted which may appear most conformable to the
spirit of this Code.”
The court’s inquiry in ruling on a motion for
judgment pursuant to CCP §664.6 is generally limited to a determination of
whether the parties entered into a valid and binding settlement, and the
material terms thereof.  Viejo
Bancorp, Inc. v. Wood (1989) 217 Cal. App. 3d 200, 209 n.4.  “Although a judge hearing a section 664.6
motion may receive evidence, determine disputed facts, and enter the terms of a
settlement agreement as a judgment, nothing in section 664.6 authorizes a judge
to create the material terms of a settlement, as opposed to deciding what terms
the parties themselves have previously agreed upon.”  Hernandez v. Board of Educ. of Stockton
Unified School Dist. (2004) 126 Cal. App. 4th 1161, 1176.  “The court is powerless to impose on the
parties more restrictive or less restrictive or different terms than those
contained in their settlement agreement.” 
Id.
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff
Loh requests that the court enforce the terms of the settlement agreement and
order defendants to install a delineation to designate the location of the
property line along the front portion of their driveway.  Plaintiff also seeks attorney’s fees in the
amount of $3210 for the first motion to enforce (which the court notes was
denied without prejudice on July 21, 2023) and $3185 for the herein motion to
enforce.
            As
background, after a MSC, the parties entered into a written settlement
agreement on August 15, 2022.  Pursuant
to the terms of the settlement agreement, the parties requested the court to
retain jurisdiction to enforce the terms of the agreement under CCP §664.6.  
            As
it relates to this motion, the settlement agreement states that “[w]ithin 30
days of the removal of the compost area, [defendants] will install some
delineation to mark the location of the property line on their property along
the front portion of the driveway (where there is not already a fence installed)
and where the hedges were previously located.” 
Settlement Agreement, para. F.
            Plaintiff
argues that defendants have not complied with this term of the agreement.  Plaintiff states in his declaration that it
was his understanding at the settlement conference that something tangible
would be installed along the property line so as to avoid future conflicts,
including the Carruths’ continued trespass upon his property.  Joseph Loh decl., ¶31.
Plaintiff asserts that instead of installing
something tangible along the property line, R. Carruth “simply drew a line
(twice now as the first one washed away).” 
Plaintiff states in his declaration that on September 15, 2023,
defendants sprayed the line, as depicted in photographs taken on December 30,
2023.  Plaintiff’s decl., ¶32.
            In
opposition, defendants argue that they have complied fully with the settlement
agreement and that plaintiff is seeking to rewrite or modify the agreement.  According to the declaration of defendant
Robert Carruth, defendants “accepted the survey obtained by Loh as the correct
property line.”  R. Carruth decl., ¶2.  He states that “[w]e were not required, nor
would we have agreed to, the installation of a physical barricade.  To do so on our side of the property line
could be dangerous to those using the driveway.”  Id., ¶3. 
He states that he is employed as a construction manager and has “extensive
experience in performing and supervising construction on both large and small
scale projects.”  Id., ¶4.  He states that he complied with the terms of
the settlement by placing a delineation along what was noted by Loh’s survey as
one in large-scale construction.  He
performed this installation by using the marker placed by the surveyor on the
sidewalk as well as the survey marker in front of the gatepost.  He marked point-to-point to follow the
property line as established by the survey. 
He installed this delineation as a permanent marking of the property
line in January 2023.  Id., ¶5.  He states that the initial delineation was
clearly visible “even after Loh started his new habit of watering our driveway
. . . with his hose on full blast.”  Id.,
¶6.  He states that after many
high-pressure washings by Loh, the original delineation faded but did not wash
“away.”  He reinstalled the delineation
marker as before.  Id., ¶8.  In September 2023, he undertook the effort of
scoring the concrete driveway along the property line.  He also painted the line with bright white
concrete paint.  The scored line is
permanent because it is a shallow cut into the concrete itself.  Id., ¶9. 
Defendant Marianne Carruthers states in her declaration that the
“original delineation was designed to be permanent and the newest installed
delineation, which was accomplished by scoring the concrete, is certainly
permanent.  The scored delineation and
white concrete paint are still in place and visible.  She provides photographs that were
purportedly taken in January 2024, which she states show the current status of
the delineation and that although there is dirt and leaves which have covered
some of the line, it has not faded or eroded in any way.  Id., ¶4.  

            In
reply, plaintiff argues that he is not seeking to rewrite or modify the
agreement.  Rather, the parties dispute
the interpretation of “install” and the “form of the delineation.”  Plaintiff asserts that he only seeks
enforcement of this requirement in conformity with the manner in which
plaintiff believes it was intended to be implemented, that a clear-cut boundary
be installed.  Plaintiff contends that
the current delineation does not comply with “installed” and is subject to
deterioration, fading, and erosion.  
            The
court rules as follows:  The court notes
that it previously found that the settlement agreement was not clear and
explicit that a “delineation” is to be a physical barrier, although the
agreement refers to “install.”  Plaintiff
agreed that as drafted “the term is a bit vague.”  Further, plaintiff had not shown that
defendants breached the agreement by failing to install a delineation.  And, defendants had not shown that they did
comply.  Defendant had represented that
he “placed” a delineation but the court could not ascertain from the photo the
“delineation” or whether it was adequate and complied with the agreement.  See July 21, 2023 minute order.
            As
to this present motion, the parties do not dispute that the settlement
agreement requires “some delineation,” that the property line be “marked,” and
that the property line is delineated currently by scoring and paint.  Rather plaintiff’s position is that the
current delineation was not “installed” and that it is thus not adequate.  As a verb, “install” means “to set up for use
or service,” such as “had an exhaust fan installed in the kitchen” or “install
software.”  It also means “to establish
in an indicated place, condition or status.” 
See Merriam-Webster Dictionary.  In
the context of the settlement agreement, the other key words are “some,” “delineation,”
and “mark,” none of which infer a physical barrier.  The current paint and scoring fall under
“some delineation,” which marked the property line.  Although it is not unreasonable for plaintiff
to have expected a physical barrier of some sort, the court finds that
defendants have complied with the settlement agreement.
            The
motion is thus DENIED. 
            Attorney’s
fees
            Plaintiff’s
request for attorney’s fees is DENIED as to the first motion.  The court denied the motion without prejudice
as it was prematurely filed.  
As to the parties’ request for attorney’s fees as to
the herein motion, the requests are DENIED. 

 
ORDER
            The
motion is DENIED.
            Defendants
are ordered to give notice.
 
 