 Case Number:  22TRCV00096    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
THE
  ROOSK GROUP INC., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV00096




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
JAMIE
  MCDANIEL, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          February 1,
2023
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant Zane Consulting
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff The Roosk Group Inc.
Motion for Summary
Judgment, in the alternative, Summary Adjudication
            The court considered the moving, opposition,
and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion for summary judgment is CONTINUED
to ___[confer with parties]____.
BACKGROUND
            On February 9, 2022, plaintiffs
TelcoLynx, LLC and The Roosk Group Inc. filed a complaint against Jamie
McDaniel, Friendly Llama, Inc, Diane Zane, and Zane Consulting, Inc. for (1)
breach of contract, (2) breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (3)
breach of fiduciary duties, (4) fraud, (5) rescission of contract, and (6)
unjust enrichment. 
            On June 28, 2022, plaintiffs filed a
FAC.
            On August 12, 2022, the court
granted defendant Friendly Llama’s motion to disqualify counsel, Callagy Law,
P.C. as counsel for plaintiff TelcoLynx. 
            On January 12, 2023, the court
granted plaintiff Roosk Group, Inc.’s motion for leave to file a SAC. 
 
On January 17, 2023, The Roosk
Group, Inc. and nominal party Telcolynx, LLC filed a SAC against Jamie
McDaniel, Friendly Llama, Inc., Diane Zane and Zane Consulting, Inc. for (1)
breach of contract, (2) breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (3)
breach of fiduciary duties, (4) fraud, (5) rescission of contract, and (6)
unjust enrichment. 
            On May 24, 2023, the court denied
defendant Friendly Llama’s request to strike “nominal plaintiff” Telcolynx, LLC
from the SAC.
            On September 29, 2023, after taking
the matter under submission, the court denied defendants’ motion to strike
plaintiff The Roosk Group’s derivative claims against defendants.  The motion to strike was granted with leave
to amend to striking Telcolynx as a “nominal plaintiff” and allowing plaintiff
to amend to name Telcolynx as a “nominal defendant.”
            On October 19, 2023, The Roosk Group
Inc. filed a TAC against Jamie McDaniel, Friendly Llama, Inc., Diane Zane, Zane
Consulting, Inc., and Telcolynx, LLC for (1) breach of oral contract (against
Friendly Llama), (2) breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing (against
Friendly Llama), (3) breach of fiduciary duties (against Friendly Llama), (4) breach
of fiduciary duties (against McDaniel), (5) fraud (against Friendly Llama and
McDaniel), (6) rescission of contract (against Zane Consulting), (7) breach of
contract (against Zane and Zane Consulting), and (8) unjust enrichment (against
Zane and Zane Consulting).
LEGAL AUTHORITY
The purpose of a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut
through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their
allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843.  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.
“On a motion for summary judgment,
the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing
that there are no triable issues of material fact.”  Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519.  A defendant moving for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of
action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.”  CCP §
437c(p)(2).  “Once the defendant . . .
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” CCP § 437c(p)(2).  
“When deciding whether to grant
summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the
papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well
as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light
most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal. App.
4th 463, 467; CCP §437c(c).
DISCUSSION
Defendant
Zane Consulting requests summary judgment on the Third Amended Complaint.  Alternatively, defendant requests summary
adjudication as to the 6th cause of action for rescission of
contract, 7th cause of action for breach of contract, and 8th
cause of action for unjust enrichment.  
The court
notes that the “Facts Common to All Causes of Action” in the TAC encompass 23
pages; thus, the court will not attempt to summarize them.
In
opposition to the motion, plaintiff requests a continuance to complete
discovery.  Plaintiff argues that the
motion is premature because discovery is far from complete in this case, with
numerous unresolved disputes and outstanding issues.  Plaintiff contends that the motion asserts
lack of evidence on various points, which are still the subject of ongoing
discovery.  As an example, defendant Zane
Consulting has agreed to supplement its responses to plaintiff’s requests for
production, nos. 18-20, 23, 27, and 30, which relate to fraud.  Plaintiff argues that the evidence is crucial
in demonstrating the harm caused by the alleged fraudulent conduct.  Further, plaintiff contends, there are
outstanding documents that are essential to establishing defendants’ knowledge
of Roosk’s rights as a member of Telcolynx and the historical agreements and
course of dealings between Roosk and Friendly Llama and documents that evidence
any contracts or other agreements between Zane and Telcolynx, for example.
In reply,
defendant argues that plaintiff is not entitled to a continuance as it failed
to comply with CCP §437c(f) because counsel’s declaration does not explain how
the outstanding discovery is necessary for the opposition.
The court
rules as follows:  Under CCP §437c(h),
“If it appears from the affidavits submitted in opposition to a motion for
summary judgment or summary adjudication, or both, that facts essential to
justify opposition may exist but cannot, for reasons stated, be presented, the
court shall deny the motion, order a continuance to permit affidavits to be
obtained or discovery to be had, or make any other order as may be just.  The application to continue the motion to
obtain necessary discovery may also be made by ex parte motion at any time on
or before the date the opposition response to the motion is due.” 
“A
declaration in support of a request for continuance under section 437c,
subdivision (h) must show:  ‘(1) the
facts to be obtained are essential to opposing the motion; (2) there is reason
to believe such facts may exist; and (3) the reasons why additional time is
needed to obtain these facts.’ . . . ‘It is not sufficient under the statute
merely to indicate further discovery or investigation is contemplated.  The statute makes it a condition that the
party moving for a continuance show “facts essential to justify opposition may
exist.”’”  Cooksey v. Alexakis
(2004) 123 Cal. App. 4th 246, 254 (citations omitted).  See also A & B Painting & Drywall,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 25 Cal. App. 4th 349, 356-57 (“a continuance
for the purpose of taking depositions was not warranted when the declaration
submitted in support of the continuance did not “explain what efforts were made
to the necessary depositions or why they could not have been taken earlier.”).
Plaintiff’s
counsel’s declaration states that the ongoing discovery process remains
incomplete, and that there are several unresolved disputes between the parties,
“which the parties have been working diligently to resolve.”  Counsel states that the awaited supplemental
responses have not been received to date and that the proposed confidentiality
order has not been finalized.  Counsel
further states that all depositions in this matter are not completed and are
pending finalization of written discover responses, “as are being supplemented
pursuant to the agreements of the parties.” 
Brian Williamson decl. (and attached copies of email correspondence
between counsel re discovery and requests for production of documents).  The November and December correspondence
(after the motion for summary judgment was filed) appear to show that counsel
have been working diligently in attempting to resolve any discovery disputes
and that defendants are purportedly supplementing their responses.  Although not reflected in the declaration,
the attached copy of the requests for production of documents indicates
requests that are relevant to the issues raised by moving party.
The court
finds that a continuance is warranted.
The
motion is thus CONTINUED.
ORDER
            The
motion is CONTINUED to ________________.
Moving
defendant is ordered to give notice of ruling.