  Case Number:  21STCV43201    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  61 JILL GREENBERG 2019 TRUST vs ERNEST FINANCIAL, LLC, et al. (Commercial)TENTATIVEPlaintiff Jill Greenberg as Trustee of Jill Greenberg 2019 Trust’s Motion to Compel Deposition of Defendant David Bogner is GRANTED. Sanctions are awarded against Bogner in the amount of $2,660.00, payable to Plaintiff within 30 days.DISCUSSIONI. MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITIONA party may make a motion compelling a witness’s deposition “after service of a deposition notice” if that witness “fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450, subd. (a).) The motion must include a meet-and-confer declaration and show good cause for the discovery sought. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450, subd. (b)(1), (2).)Plaintiff Jill Greenberg as Trustee of the 2019 Jill Greenberg Trust (Plaintiff) moves to compel the deposition of Defendant David Bogner (Bogner). Plaintiff presents evidence that Bogner was served with a deposition notice on April 4, 2024, noticing his deposition to take place on May 10, 2024. (Paya Decl. ¶ 3.) Bogner served objections on May 1, 2024, and did not appear. (Paya Decl. ¶ 8, Exh. 2.)Bogner in opposition argues that Plaintiff did not attempt to meet and confer before filing this motion, as required under Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.450, subd. (b)(2).) (Opposition at pp. 2–3.) However, Plaintiff presents email correspondence in which Plaintiff sought to confirm Bogner’s appearance for deposition, and addressed the objections thereto served by Bogner. (Paya Decl. Exh. 2.) This was sufficient prelude to the present motion.Bogner argues that there is no showing that the notice of deposition was served on him, based on the unsigned proof of service attached to the notice of deposition.(Opposition at p. 3; Paya Decl. Exh. 2.) But Plaintiff’s counsel attests that it was served (Paya Decl. ¶ 3), and Bogner presents no evidence to the contrary. Indeed, Bogner served objections to the notice, indicating that it was indeed served upon him. (Paya Decl. Exh. 2.)Bogner argues that the motion has made no showing to rebut his objections to the notice. (Opposition at p. 3.) But it is not Plaintiff’s burden to rebut Bogner’s objections; it is Bogner’s burden to support the objections he offers. (See Coy v. Superior Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220[“[H]e who asserts the affirmative of an issue has the burden of proving it.”].)Bogner argues that the motion includes no separate statement related to the document requests to which he offered objections, as required by California Rules of Court (CRC) Rule 3.1345, subd. (a). (Opposition at p. 4.) However, such a document would serve little purpose here, as Bogner presented the same boilerplate objection to each request for production. (Paya Decl. Exh. 2.) These 18 requests relate to the subject property and Bogner’s income therefrom, and relate to the subject matter of this action, which includes Bogner’s failure to pay rent on the property and alleged damages resulting from its re-rental to another party. (Paya Decl. Exh. 1.) Bogner has made no effort to support the objections here.The motion is therefore GRANTED.I. SANCTIONSIf a motion to compel deposition is granted, “the court shall impose a monetary sanction . . . in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)Plaintiff seeks sanctions against Bogner and his counsel in the amount of $3,960.00, representing six hours of attorney work at $650 per hour, plus a $60 filing fee. (Paya Decl. ¶ 9.) Sanctions in this amount are warranted against Bogner. However, Bogner’s counsel has been attempting to secure leave from this court to be relieved as counsel for Bogner, based on his client’s non-responsiveness. Such was made clear to Plaintiff in the parties’ meet-and-confer correspondence. (Paya Decl. Exhs. 1, 2.) It therefore appears that Bogner alone, rather than his counsel, is responsible for his failure to appear. Accordingly, sanctions are awarded against Bogner, and not his counsel. However, the Court finds that four hours of attorney time is reasonable and reduces the sanctions accordingly to $2660.00. 