 Case Number:  22STCV00786    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  61 ABIGAIL GOMEZ vs MILLENNIUM MULTISPECIALTY MEDICAL GROUP, INC., et al.TENTATIVEDefendants John Sedgh, Ronit Shamoilzadeh, and Millennium Multispecialty Medical Group, Inc.’s Motion for Summary Judgment or Adjudication is GRANTED as to the first and third causes of action for FEHA discrimination and failure to prevent FEHA violations, and GRANTED as to the second and fifth causes of action for harassment and defamation alleged against Defendant Sedgh. The motion is DENIED as to the remaining claims.Moving party to provide notice.DISCUSSIONI. SUMMARY JUDGMENTA party may move for summary judgment “if it is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (a).) “[I]f all the evidence submitted, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law,” the moving party will be entitled to summary judgment. (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) A motion for summary adjudication may be made by itself or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (f)(2).)The moving party bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact, and if he does so, the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850; accord Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)Once the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto. (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 850.) The plaintiff may not rely upon the mere allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead, shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto. (Ibid.) To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)Defendants Millennium Multispecialty Medical Group, Inc. (MMMG), John Sedgh, and Ronit Shamoilzadeh (Defendants) seek summary judgment or adjudication of all claims asserted by Plaintiff Abigail Gomez (Plaintiff) in her First Amended Complaint (FAC). Defendants argue that the first cause of action for FEHA discrimination fails because Defendant MMMG does not meet the five-employee minimum threshold for discrimination liability under FEHA, and because insufficient evidence supports Plaintiff’s claim that she suffered any adverse action because of her sex. (Motion at pp. 8–10.) Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s second cause of action for hostile work environment fails, because Defendant John Sedgh did not commit or contribute to any harassment, because the acts committed by Defendant Shamoilzadeh were not pervasive or severe, and because Shamoilzadeh was not an employee of MMMG. (Motion at pp. 10–12.)For the same reasons, Defendants argue that the third cause of action for failure to prevent FEHA violations fails. (Motion at pp. 12–13.) Defendants argue that the fourth cause of action for wrongful termination fails because no FEHA claim is stated, and because Plaintiff cannot state a claim for constructive discharge when she voluntarily resigned. (Motion at pp. 12–13.) Finally, Defendants argue that Defendants John Sedgh and MMMG cannot be liable for the fifth cause of action for defamation because the statements were made by Shamoilzadeh, who is not an employee of MMMG. (Motion at pp. 14–15.) Defendants further argue that the defamation claim fails against Shamoilzadeh, because there is no evidence of publication to a third party, or of actual damages resulting from the defamation. (Motion at pp. 14–16.)1. FEHA Discrimination / Failure to Prevent FEHA ViolationsThe Fair Employment and Housing Act (FEHA) prohibits an “employer” from discriminating against employees in the “terms, conditions, or privileges of employment.” (Gov. Code § 12940, subd. (a).) The FEHA statute elsewhere defines “employer to “include[] any person regularly employing five or more persons, or any person acting as an agent of an employer, directly or indirectly.” (Gov. Code, § 12926, subd. d).) Regulations further define employer to mean “[a]ny person or individual engaged in any business or enterprise regularly employing five or more individuals, including individuals performing any service under any appointment, contract of hire or apprenticeship, express or implied, oral or written.” (2 CCR § 11008, subd. (d).)In the decision, Robinson v. Fair Employment & Housing Com. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 226, 231, the court concluded “that the number of persons on the payroll, not the number working on any particular day, is determinative of the number of employees an employer regularly employs.” The court stated, “This construction is consistent with the purpose of the legislation and of the small-employer exemption since by looking to the number of employees on the payroll the enforcement agency is able to channel its resources into enforcement where job opportunities will be maximized.” (Id. at p. 238.)Defendants here present the declaration of Defendant Sedgh, who states that MMMG had three employees at the time Plaintiff resigned in December 2021: Plaintiff, Candice Rosales, and Phu Mai. (Sedgh Decl. ¶ 4.)Plaintiff in opposition contends that from March 2020 to her termination, MMMG had five employees: Candice Rosales, Phu Mai, Plaintiff, John Sedgh, and Shamoilzadeh. (Opposition at p. 18.)Plaintiff’s argument is unpersuasive, because there are no triable issues as to whether MMMG had five or more employees. Sedgh has testified that MMMG had only three employees at the time Plaintiff left her position, and specifically states that Shamoilzadeh, his wife, occupied no position with MMMG since 2017, and since that time received no compensation from MMMG. (Sedgh Decl. ¶ 3.) Because Shamoilzadeh was not on MMMG’s payroll, she was not, under Robinson, supra, 2 Cal.4th at p. 231, to be counted as an employee of MMMG for the purposes of determining threshold liability under the FEHA. Even if Defendant Sedgh — who identifies himself as the “director, officer, and sole shareholder of” MMMG (Sedgh Decl. ¶ 2) — was counted among MMMG’s employees, this would leave a total of four employees alongside Plaintiff, Rosales, and Mai.Plaintiff argues that MMMG may nonetheless be liable because the definition of “employer” includes “any person acting as an agent of an employer,” which Plaintiff contends Shamoilzadeh was. (Gov. Code § 12926, subd. (d); Opposition at p. 18, citing 2CCR § 11008, subd. (d)(3).) But Plaintiff misreads these provisions as including “agents” within the five-employee count of Government Code § 12926, subd. (d). Rather, the inclusion of “agents” in the definition of employer serves two purposes: to attribute the acts of an agent to the principal employer, and to render an agent liable for discrimination — when the agent “has at least five employees and carries out FEHA-regulated activities on behalf of an employer.” (Raines v. U.S. Healthworks Medical Group (2023) 15 Cal.5th 268, 273.) This language does not include the “agents” of the employer within the employee count.There are therefore no triable issues as to whether MMMG is an employer potentially liable for FEHA discrimination under Government Code § 12940, subd. (a). However, this does not necessarily resolve Plaintiff’s other FEHA claims. This is because FEHA specifically makes employers even of one employee liable for discriminatory harassment. (Gov. Code § 12940, subd. (j)(4)(A) [defining “employer” for the purposes of harassment to include “any person regularly employing one or more persons”].)Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED as to the first cause of action for FEHA discrimination. And because the definition of “employer” under Government Code § 12940, subd. (k) is the same as that underlying that for FEHA discrimination generally, the motion is properly GRANTED as to the third cause of action brought under that subdivision. (Complaint ¶¶ 57–58.)2. FEHA Harassment / Hostile Work Environment“‘[California's] Fair Employment and Housing Act (Gov. Code, § 12900 et seq.) . . . explicitly prohibits an employer from harassing an employee on the basis of race, sex or [ethnicity.]’ . . . To prove a claim under Title VII, the harassment must be ‘sufficiently severe or pervasive “to alter the conditions of [the victim's] employment and create an abusive working environment.”’ [Citation.]” (Dee v. Vintage Petroleum, Inc. (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 30, 35.) Individual employees are “personally liable for any harassment . . . that is perpetrated by the employee.” (Gov. Code § 12940, subd. (j)(3).)Defendant Sedgh argues that he cannot be liable for the harassment alleged on the part of Shamoilzadeh, because he did not perpetrate any of the harassment. (Motion at p. 10–11.) Defendants argue that MMMG cannot be liable for the harassment of Shamoilzadeh, who was not an employee. (Motion at p. 11.) And they finally argue that the harassment alleged on the part of Shamoilzadeh is not severe or pervasive. (Motion at pp. 11–12.)Some explanation of the facts is appropriate here. It is undisputed that Sedgh was the director and owner of MMMG, and as such was Plaintiff’s supervisor. (Sedgh Decl. ¶ 2.) Shamoilzadeh is Sedgh’s wife. (Sedgh Decl. ¶ 3.) Although Sedgh denies that Shamoilzadeh had any role at the company after the termination of her contract position in 2017, Plaintiff presents different evidence. (Sedgh Decl. ¶ 3.) In her own declaration, Plaintiff states that Shamoilzadeh was one of her supervisors from the beginning of her employment with MMMG in April 2019. (Gomez Decl. ¶ 5.) Sedgh required all MMMG employees to communicate with each other via group text messages, which included Shamoilzadeh. (Gomez Decl. ¶ 8.)In November 2021, Shamoilzadeh began to text Plaintiff through work group texts which included Sedgh, asking her in detailed terms to send her prepared work schedules for patients in the upcoming days. (Gomez Decl. ¶¶ 22–24, Exh. 2.) Plaintiff claims that Sedgh knew that Shamoilzadeh, though nominally not an employee, was responsible for assigning Plaintiff work tasks, and never directed Plaintiff to ignore them. (Gomez Decl. ¶¶ 16, 24.) Also in November 2021, Plaintiff was asked to give Shamoilzadeh “staff” access to the MMMG scheduling system. (Gomez Decl. ¶ 25.)In December 2021, Shamoilzadeh began to send unusual messages to the work group chats. (Gomez Decl. ¶ 26.) She claimed at one point that she had been kidnapped. (Gomez Decl. ¶ 26.) When Plaintiff expressed concern, and asked if she should contact “Fabiola,” Sedgh and Shamoilzadeh’s babysitter, Shamoilzadeh began to aggressively text Plaintiff (with Sedgh included in the chain):Get yr fkn nose [nose emoji] out of my fkn life bitchStop [stop sign emoji]Talk to Fabiola ha haMind your own businessBF I fkn file a harassment lawsuitAgainst uMind your own business bitchYou are in the middle of a fkn divorceYou fkn goHoMind you own fkn businessIf I hear you one more time …..Butting into my family affairsI swear to GODI WILL HAVE ALL OF BHPD ON YOUR FKN ASSYOU ARE ON EGGSHELLS [egg emojis](Gomez Decl. Exh. 3.)The texts continued:THE NEXT TARDY & or ABSENCE YOU ARE LEGALLY TERMINATEDGOODBYEANDGO DEAL W YOUR DIVORCE AND YOUR FKN BOYFRIENDShame on you for sneaking out of the house and leaving your child neglect and an unattended while you go with your boyfriend Dr. Glassberg’s grandchild told us the whole story bitchFor the last time mind your own fucking business you whoreI repeat mind you own fucking business before I have you terminated tomorrowWho the fuck gives you permission to intrude in my life who the fuck are you just a fucking medical assistance with $14 an hour bitchOne more time you involve yourself with my husband’s personal affairs in my family personal business affairs I swear to God I will have the whole BHPD up your fucking ass bitchBack the fuck upAnd know you’re fucking limits&BoundariesBoundaryI own 50% of this companyBACK THE F**** UP(Gomez Decl. Exh. 4.) When Plaintiff responded with a text stating that she was “simply asking if everything was okay” after Shamoilzadeh sent “threatening messages on our WORK group,” Shamoilzadeh responded with more texts. (Gomez Decl. Exh. 4.)MIND YR OWN BUSINESSURNOWAYON MY LEVELSO BACK THE F**** UP [up emoji](Ibid.) Plaintiff responded with the message: “I wasn’t gonna respond but if you put your issues in our WORK group and I real your threats yes I’m gonna ask if everything is okay!! It only makes sense!!!” (Ibid.)Shamoilzadeh responded:Make sure you bring all the proof for all of your fucking absences and Tardes and no-shows for all the days you were supposed to show up to work we don’t take your word for it anymore we need proof to put in your fileAll of the absences y had for past 3 monthsNeed to be email [emoji]Emailed to the companyI’m giving y 48 hours to provide those medical noteGoodbye I’m blocking y(Ibid.)Plaintiff responded with two messages, one stating that she intended no disrespect from any of her prior messages, and another “notifying both of you” that she was taking a day off to get a “legal consultation.” (Ibid.)Sedgh at this point texted, “My wife is not part of Millennium.” (Ibid.) Plaintiff responded, “Even more of a reason she shouldn’t be included in our work text messages.” (Ibid.) Sedgh responded, “She is not employed by Millennium.” (Gomez Decl. Exh. 4..)Shamoilzadeh continued to text:Go aheadWe have all your harassment texts to DRThat you publicizedAttacking him in a professional settingPlus all your no shows and absencesPlus you’re unprofessional conductPlus all the drug tests you refused to takePlus etc etcYou’ll be hearing from our family law attyBelieve me we have the time and & the money [money emoji] to press charges against youPlus collect all atty feesHa ha(Ibid.) Plaintiff sent a message stating that Shamoilzadeh had “MADE IT A POINT to include you [Sedgh] in the text messages,” and stating “YOU as my employer have been an active participant because you’ve permitted your spouse’s behavior toward me and have asked me to disregard.” (Ibid.)Shamoilzadeh sent further messages:& you took advantage of us, the employer, the company and much much moreBring it on babyWe got this[smiling and heart emojis]I’m blocking u once again Bc u are harassing usBye [hand waving emojis]And last thing ….Next timeWhen an employer asked you to take a drug test please do not refuse on multiple occasions that doesn’t look good on youSweetheart [heart-eyes emoji](Ibid.) Plaintiff texted, “You see what I mean, Doctor?? Do I have a need for that??” (Ibid.)Shamoilzadeh sent more texts:Plus all the random calls that were made to your cell phone when you were supposed to be on the clockThat you did not answer so we will collect back all the paychecks that you did not answer any of the phone calls so there you’ll be broke in no time(Ibid.) When Plaintiff sent a message stating that Shamoilzadeh did not intimidate her, Shamoilzadeh responded:You di the company wrongYou were on drugsSo please DO NOT CONTACT DRNOR ANY OF MILLENIUM’S EMPLOYEES VIA TEXT, VIA PHONE, VIA IN PERSON, VIA FAX, VIA EMAIL, VIA ANY SHAPE WAY OR FORMOR LEGAL ACTION WILL BE PLACED AGAINST YOUSTAY AWAYIt is really in your best interest to stay away and do damage control so please back up and stay away before you get into more legal problems thank you have a nice life and have a nice dayYou are legally and officially blocked(Ibid.) Plaintiff also presents text messages sent from Shamoilzadeh to her coworkers, asking them not to have contact with Plaintiff, calling Plaintiff “a v dangerous person W multiple personalities and other medical conditions that are private and we cannot disclose,” and stating that Plaintiff had “refused the random drug tests each and every time.” (Gomez Decl. Exh. 7.)These texts took place on December 12 and 13, 2021. (Gomez Decl. ¶¶ 29, 33.) On December 15, Plaintiff sent a text to Sedgh, stating, “I don’t plan on clocking in unless you increase my wage to $25/hr effective today at clock in.” (Johnson Decl. Exh. 8.) Sedgh stated that he could not give her a raise. (Ibid.) On the same day, Shamoilzadeh sent more texts to Plaintiff:What the f***Y on drugs again girlY r requesting a Raise ?Ha HaThink againYour foot is out the doorV easy to replace a drug addictY refused the random drug tests ev timePlease look for another jobThank youV respectfullyYou’re absencesYour no showsYour tardiesYour misconduct on the company level have all been detailed & documentedPlease don’t flatter yourself and ask for a raiseWhen you’re running on eggshells sweetheartI’m gonna get a restraining order on youKindly remove yourself from the companyHa haI’m terminating youBased on the aforementioned violationsTake care of yourself honeyAnd stop harassing me and dr and CandiceYou contact anybody from millenniumVia textVia emailVia in phoneVia faxVia in personLLEGAL ACTION WILL BE HELD AGAINST YOUWE HAVE REPLACED YOURGOOD LUCK !Keep using drugsSee how far it gets youGood luckThat poor child of yoursWatch out for CPSMAYBE Y WILL AGREE TO THEIR RANDOM DRUG TESTSBLOCKEDSTAY AWAYFROM ME&MY FAMILY&MY EMPLOYEESNo wonder doctor didn’t want you to know where we live he was too scared you were going to continue harassing usOne more contact in any shape or formI swear to GOD I will have u arrestedFor harassmentStalkingTrespassingDisturbing our Peace& Slander& criminal threatsBACK UPBACK THE F*** UP and leave us aloneStay awayY are aA Very Dangerous personDr was right ou are*****TRULY A BIPOLARPlease seek medical attention asap !Bye bitch blockedIf u contact phu one more time the company as a whole will press charge against yBelieve me we have the money and we have the time to put you behind barsWhere u belongU r blockedAnd BIPOLARPLEASE SEEK MEDICAL ATTENTIONBYE GOOD LUCKAnd we have you on camera for stealing so please try not to steal on your next job if you ever get hired(Gomez Decl. Exh. 6.)Plaintiff responded: “Under the circumstances, given your and your wife’s behavior towards me, I can no longer work here for the sake of my mental and physical well-being.” (Ibid.)From the above facts, certain things are apparent. The first is that no summary adjudication in Shamoilzadeh’s favor is appropriate here. Defendants argue that the harassment described above was not severe or pervasive, but their analysis notably avoids any discussion of the content or frequency of the texts at issue. (Motion at pp. 11–12.) Defendants instead suggest, without authority, that the harassment at issue cannot be severe or pervasive because it occurred through text messages rather than “physical touching or verbal statements.” (Motion at p. 12.) Yet in addition to the harassment at issue actually being verbal — i.e. “of, relating to, or consisting of words” (Merriam-Webster Dict. Online (2024) < https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/verbal> [as of July 12, 2024] — applicable authority states that such comments can constitute harassment: “[V]erbal harassment may include epithets, derogatory comments, or slurs on the basis of sex; . . . visual harassment may include derogatory posters, cartoons, or drawings on the basis of sex.” (Atalla v. Rite Aid Corp. (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 294, 308.) Here, the intensity and volume of texts at issue, along with the explicitly gendered insults contained therein, could support a finding that the conduct at issue was severe or pervasive.Adding weight to this conclusion is the evidence supporting Plaintiff’s characterization of Shamoilzadeh as her supervisor. Although Sedgh has denied that Shamoilzadeh had any official role at MMMG, a trier of fact need not embrace this conclusion when faced with the contrary evidence presented by Plaintiff. Plaintiff testifies that Shamoilzadeh was a supervisor, in that she was included in work group-texts, regularly assigned her tasks, and did so without contradiction from Sedgh. (Gomez Decl. ¶¶ 16–24.) This testimony is corroborated by the deposition of Candice Rosales, one of Plaintiff’s co-workers, who states that she interviewed for her position at MMMG in 2016 with Shamoilzadeh, was told that she was the “boss,” and that she continued to occupy this supervisory position until after Plaintiff’s termination of employment. (Opposition Exh. 11 at pp. 14–17.) And throughout the texts at issue, Shamoilzadeh makes repeated demands and instructions to Plaintiff as to her employment, as though she occupied a supervisory position. (Gomez Decl. Exhs. 4, 6.) Triable issues exist as to whether Plaintiff endured severe harassment at the hands of the supervisor that MMMG appointed for her.For this same reason, MMMG is not entitled to adjudication of the harassment claim alleged against it, as its argument rests on the contention that Shamoilzadeh was not an agent of MMMG. (Motion at p. 11). Although not an “employee” for the purposes of the five-count discrimination threshold, employers are liable not merely for the acts of employees but for “any person acting as an agent of an employer” as well. (Gov. Code § 12940, subd. (j)(4)(A).)What’s more, it would not be necessary for Shamoilzadeh to be an employee, or even an agent of MMMG, for Plaintiff to state a harassment claim against her employer.An employer may also be responsible for the acts of nonemployees, with respect to harassment of employees, applicants, unpaid interns or volunteers, or persons providing services pursuant to a contract in the workplace, if the employer, or its agents or supervisors, knows or should have known of the conduct and fails to take immediate and appropriate corrective action.(Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (j)(1).)MMMG argues that it could have taken no action to prevent the harassment from taking place, except to tell Plaintiff to disregard the texts. (Motion at p. 11.) Yet simultaneously, Defendants chastise Plaintiff for failing to block the Shamoilzadeh’s number, a course of action the evidence suggests they never instructed her to take. (Motion at p. 12.) Moreover, evidence exists to suggest that Defendants could have taken further action than simply instructing Plaintiff to disregard the texts, as Rosales testifies that Sedgh removed Shamoilzadeh from supervisory responsibilities and group texts, but only after Plaintiff resigned. (Opposition Exh. 11 at pp. 16–17.) Thus no summary adjudication on this claim is available for MMMG.However, no individual liability may attach against Sedgh for mere inaction in the face of Shamoilzadeh’s harassment. In Fiol v. Doellstedt (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1318, the court addressed whether a supervisor could be personally liable for harassment for failing to address Plaintiff’s complaints, after and because of which Plaintiff was discharged from employment. (Id. at p. 1322.) The court held that although employees may be individually liable for the harassment that they aid and abet, “mere inaction by a non-harassing supervisor does not constitute aiding and abetting.” (Id. at p. 1327.) “[I]ndividual supervisory employees should not be placed at risk of personal liability . . . for personnel management decisions which have been delegated to the supervisor by the employer, such as deciding whether to investigate or take action on a complaint of sexual harassment.” (Id. at pp. 1327–1328.) “A non-harassing supervisor who fails to take action on a sexual harassment complaint by a subordinate has not engaged in personal conduct constituting harassment, but rather has made a personnel management decision which in retrospect may be considered to be inadequate or improper.” (Fiol v. Doellstedt (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1318, 1331.) Although Plaintiff argues that his failure to act “goes beyond inaction,” Plaintiff articulation of Sedgh’s misconduct only states that he “refused to terminate Shamoilzadeh’s employment and refused to do anything to ensure Shamoilzadeh would stop torturing Ms. Gomez.” (Opposition at p. 13.) Refusing to take such personnel administrative actions is the type of conduct held insufficient basis to justify individual liability as discussed in the Fiol case.Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED as to the second cause of action for harassment asserted against Sedgh, and DENIED as to the same claim asserted against MMMG and Shamoilzadeh.3. Wrongful TerminationDefendants argue that there can be no claim for wrongful discharge in violation of public policy because there are no facts to support Plaintiff’s FEHA claims (which supply the underlying policy) or to show that she faced conditions so intolerable that she was constructively terminated. (Motion at pp. 13–14.) Defendants argue that Plaintiff departed because Defendants failed to provide her with a pay raise, that she could have blocked the texts, and that the texts in any event were not in MMMG’s control. (Motion at pp. 13–14.)Much of the above analysis suffices to address Defendants’ arguments. Triable issues exist as to whether the texts were in MMMG’s control, given the triable issues as to Shamoilzadeh’s status as s supervisor, and subsequent actions evidently taken to remove her from that position. Given these triable issues, it is not apparent that Plaintiff could have simply blocked Shamoilzadeh’s number without direction from Sedgh to do so. And finally, although Plaintiff did request, and was denied, a raise prior to her resignation, her request for the raise was made contemporaneously with Plaintiff’s complaints regarding Shamoilzadeh’s harassment. (Motion, Gomez Deposition, Exhs. 8, 12.) After the raise was denied on December 13, Plaintiff stated that she would come in for work. (Ibid.) It was only after Shamoilzadeh’s subsequent text messages that Plaintiff offered her resignation, offering the explanation to Sedgh of “your and your wife’s behavior towards me.” (Opposition Exh. 6.)The evidence creates triable issues as to whether Plaintiff was constructively discharged. “The conditions giving rise to the resignation must be sufficiently extraordinary and egregious to overcome the normal motivation of a competent, diligent, and reasonable employee to remain on the job to earn a livelihood and to serve his or her employer. The proper focus is on whether the resignation was coerced, not whether it was simply one rational option for the employee.” (Turner v. Anheuser-Busch, Inc. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1238, 1246.) Here, the same evidence creating triable issues as to the severity and pervasiveness of Shamoilzadeh’s harassment also create triable issues as to whether Plaintiff’s resignation was provoked by extraordinary and egregious conditions, such that Plaintiff was effectively coerced into resigning.The motion is therefore DENIED as to the fourth cause of action.4. DefamationDefendants’ arguments as to the defamation claim differ for each of the three Defendants. Sedgh contends that he cannot be liable for defamation because he took no responsible part in the publication of the texts. (Motion at pp. 14–15.) MMMG contends that it did not employ Shamoilzadeh. (Motion at p. 15.) And Shamoilzadeh contends that no “publication” took place, and Plaintiff cannot demonstrate damages. (Motion at pp. 15–16.) The last of these will be addressed first, since they would dispose of the defamation claim for all Defendants, if embraced.Defamation requires a “publication.” (Price v. Operating Engineers Local Union No. 3 (2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 962, 970.) A publication, to be actionable, must be made to someone “other than the person defamed.” (Cabesuela v. Browning-Ferris Industries of California, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 101, 112.) Defendants therefore argue that the text messages to Plaintiff herself are not actionable.However, Shamoilzadeh did not merely send publications to Plaintiff. Communications were also sent to her husband in the same group text, communications which were not made in confidence and therefore not privileged under Evidence Code § 902. Moreover, Shamoilzadeh sent other defamatory communications to Plaintiff’s coworkers, stating that she was “harassing and attacking Dr. [Sedgh],” that Plaintiff was a “v[ery] dangerous person W multiple personalities and other medical [emoji] conditions,” that Plaintiff “has refused the random drug tests each and every time.” (Gomez Decl Exh. 7.)Defendants argue that these latter statements cannot support Plaintiff’s defamation claim because Plaintiff cannot show special damages. (Motion at p. 16.) But special damages are not required for defamation claims generally, and are only required when the defamatory meaning of the publication is “not apparent on its face.” (MacLeod v. Tribune Pub. Co. (1959) 52 Cal.2d 536, 548.) There is no argument by Defendants as to the defamatory character of the statements. Indeed, the above communications include statements that Plaintiff has “multiple personalities” and is a “dangerous person.” A publication that accuses someone of being “in fact insane,” the import of the above statements, is defamatory. (Yorty v. Chandler (1970) 13 Cal.App.3d 467, 473.) Shamoilzadeh is therefore not entitled to adjudication of the defamation claim. And because MMMG’s argument on this point rests upon the already-rejected argument as to Shamoilzadeh’s status as a non-agent, no adjudication can be provided for it, either.Sedgh, however, is entitled to adjudication on the defamation claim. “The general rule for defamation is that only one “who takes a responsible part in the publication is liable for the defamation.” (Matson v. Dvorak (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 539, 549.) Here, as with the sexual harassment claim, there is no evidence that Sedgh encouraged the conduct, that he had “knowledge of the preparation of content” of the tests “until after publication. (Id. at pp. 549.)Plaintiff suggests that Sedgh may be liable under the principles of ratification. (Opposition at p. 20.)Ratification is the voluntary election by a person to adopt in some manner as his own an act which was purportedly done on his behalf by another person, the effect of which, as to some or all persons, is to treat the act as if originally authorized by him. [Citations.] A purported agent's act may be adopted expressly or it may be adopted by implication based on conduct of the purported principal from which an intention to consent to or adopt the act may be fairly inferred, including conduct which is ‘inconsistent with any reasonable intention on his part, other than that he intended approving and adopting it.  Dickinson v. Cosby (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 1138, 1158.) When an agent makes defamatory statements nominally on behalf of a principal, ratification may be implied by the principal’s failure to “immediately terminate the agency relationship” after the publication, or the failure to “issue a retraction or clarification.” (Id. at p. 1158.)There are no triable issues as to whether Sedgh ratified the statements of Shamoilzadeh. In response to earlier, bizarre texts made by Shamoilzadeh, Sedgh apologized to Plaintiff for the texts and advised her to disregard them. (Motion, Gomez Depo. at p. 105.) During the text exchanges at issue, the only messages sent by Sedgh into the text chat were disavowals of Shamoilzadeh’s authority to speak for the company. (Gomez Decl. Exh. 4.) While triable issues exist as to whether Sedgh was negligent in addressing the harassment, there are no triable issues as to whether he personally embraced Shamoilzadeh’s conduct as his own.The motion is therefore GRANTED as to the fifth cause of action for defamation against Sedgh, and DENIED as to the same cause of action against Shamoilzadeh and MMMG.In summary, the motion is GRANTED as to the first and third causes of action for FEHA discrimination and failure to prevent FEHA violations, and GRANTED as to the second and fifth causes of action for harassment and defamation alleged against Defendant Sedgh. The motion is DENIED as to the remaining claims.