  Case Number:  22STLC05464    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
10-30-24
Case
#: 22STLC05464
Trial
Date: 1-13-25
 
AUGMENT ASSESSMENT
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Rick Ladd
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant, County of Los Angeles, et al.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
to Augment the Assessment Appeals Board Administrative Record
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiff
Rick Ladd owns certain real property identified as 3912 West 106th
St., Inglewood. Plaintiff alleges the County of Los Angeles improperly assessed
property taxes for the years 2019 through 2022, for a balance in excess of
$16,781.52.
 
On
August 17, 2022, and May 1, 2023, Plaintiff, in pro per, filed a complaint and
first amended complaint for Refund of Property Taxes, Accounting, and
Declaratory Relief. On May 2, 2023, the action was reclassified as unlimited.
On September 5, 2023, the court (Department 85 writs and receivers) sustained
the demurrer to the accounting and declaratory relief cause of action without
leave to amend, overruled the demurrer to the refund of property taxes causes
of action, and determined the action was not properly before the department. On
September 7, 2023, the action was transferred to Department 68. 
 
On
January 24, 2024, the court denied the motion to compel further responses to
Request for Production of Documents, numbers 3, 5-10, and granted the motion to
compel further responses to Requests for Admissions, numbers 8-11, 14, 18-21,
and 30-33, from defendants County of Los Angeles, et al. 
 
RULING: Denied
Plaintiff Rick Ladd, in pro per, moves to Augment the
Assessment Appeals Board Administrative Record or Alternatively Issue a Writ of
Administrative Mandamus Compelling Augmentation. Plaintiff seeks to augment the
Administrative Record consisting of items identified as Exhibits P-24 through
P-30, in order to allow review of the complete record regarding the assessment
process. Defendants County of Los Angeles, et al., counters that the sole
remaining issue for consideration before the court involves the calculation of
the refund amount. Plaintiff is now precluded from seeking de novo review of
the entire underlying assessment process. Allowing an augmentation of the
record would constitute improper new evidence now precluded due to the failure
to present said information at the time of the assessment hearing. The court
electronic filing system shows no reply at the time of the tentative ruling
publication cutoff.
 
The first amended complaint
challenges the correction of a property valuation from $590,000 to $275,000.
[First Amend. Comp., ¶ 9.] Plaintiff maintains the Los Angeles County
Assessment Appeals Board failed to timely comply with the provisions of California
Revenue and Taxation Code sections 1604, et seq. [First
Amend. Comp., ¶ 10.] The first cause of action specifically and
exclusively alleges an “unlawful method of assessment” seeking “de novo review
of the method of assessment applied...” [First Amend.
Comp., ¶ 16.] 
 
“The assessment
of property for the purpose of taxation is a function of the executive branch
of the government and the judiciary has no power or jurisdiction to inquire as
to the actual value of property to determine whether or not it has been
properly assessed. (Citation.) ... The duty of determining the value of the property
and the fairness of the assessment is confided to the appropriate county board
of equalization. In discharging this duty, the board's determination upon the
merits of the controversy is conclusive. The taxpayer has no right to a trial
de novo in the superior court to resolve conflicting issues of fact as to the
taxable value of his property. (Citation.) If a plaintiff taxpayer claims only that the assessor and
the board of equalization erroneously applied a valid method of determining
full cash value, the decision of the board is equivalent to the determination
of a trial court and the trial court in turn may review only the record
presented to the board. The trial court may overturn the board's decision only
when no substantial evidence supports it, in which case the actions of the
board are deemed so arbitrary as to constitute a deprivation of property
without due process. (Citation.) In those
cases where the substantial evidence test is to be applied, the trial court
does not weigh the evidence in the administrative record nor does it exercise
its independent judgment. Rather, it reviews the entire record to determine if
there is substantial evidence to support the findings of the administrative
agency. (Citation.) 
 
“Where
the legality of the valuation method used by the assessor is in issue, the
scope of judicial review is not limited to the evidence. (Citation.) When the
taxpayer challenges the validity of the valuation method itself, the issue
raised is a question of law. That question is whether the challenged method of
valuation is arbitrary, in excess of discretion, or in violation of the
standards prescribed by law. (Citation.) Reviewing courts must presume the
assessing officers have performed their duties and have assessed all properties
fairly and upon an equal basis. (Citation.) Where taxes are claimed to be
excessive, before they can be set aside there must be evidence to show the
assessments were fraudulently or mistakenly made or that an improper method of
valuation was pursued. Put another way, specific valuations and methods of
valuation employed are reviewable only for arbitrariness, abuse of discretion,
or failure to follow the standards prescribed by the Legislature. (Citation.)
 
“When a
board of equalization purports to decide a question of law or refuses to hear a
case on the ground it involves only a question of law to be decided by the
courts, a taxpayer has the right to resort to the courts for determination of
such question. (Citation.) Thus, if the issue is a legal one the judicial
inquiry is pursued independently of the board's decision and unrestricted by
the usual limits on the scope of review. The court is not restricted to the
transcript of the proceedings before the board, but may receive additional
evidence bearing on the legal question. (Citations.)”
 
(Norby
Lumber Co. v. County of Madera (1988) 202
Cal.App.3d 1352, 1362–1363.)
 
The operative complaint comes to the court
after the writs and receivers department overruled the demurrer to the first
cause of action and sustained the demurrer without leave to amend as to the
remaining two causes of action. The court specifically reviewed the
administrative record, and categorically found no
challenge to the actual wrongfulness of any assessment, but in fact a sole
claim for miscalculation of the properly refunded amount. The court therefore
held the case shall only proceed on the issue of the tax refund. A tax refund
case is properly filed in the superior court. (Little v. Los Angeles County Assessment Appeals Bds. (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 915, 923 accord Sunrise Retirement Villa v. Dear (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 948, 955 (footnote 2.) 
 
Under the
substantial evidence standard, the court cannot consider new and additional
information beyond the administrative hearing transcript. (Western States
Petroleum Assn. v. Superior Court (1995) 9 Cal.4th 559, 579; see FlightSafety
Intern., Inc. v. Los Angeles County Assessment Appeals Bd. (2023) 96
Cal.App.5th 712, 721.) All information was submitted at the time of the
hearing. (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 18, § 313, subd. (e).) “We have repeatedly held
that issues not presented at an administrative hearing cannot be raised on
review.” (Niles Freeman Equipment v. Joseph (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th
765, 787.) “Exhaustion of administrative
remedies is a jurisdictional prerequisite to a judicial action challenging any
planning decision. (Citation.) If a party wishes to make a particular
methodological challenge to a given study relied upon in planning decisions,
the challenge must be raised in the course of the administrative proceedings.
Otherwise, it cannot be raised in any subsequent judicial proceedings.” (San
Franciscans Upholding the Downtown Plan v. City & County of San Francisco (2002)
102 Cal.App.4th 656, 685.) The court finds no
legal or factual support for an alternative “legal” challenge allowing the
introduction of further, proposed evidence to the record. 
 
The motion is therefore DENIED.
 
Trial
set for January 13, 2025.
 
Plaintiff
to give notice.
 