 Case Number:  23STCV24029    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
10-30-24
Case
#23STCV24029 (related to lead case 22STCV38443
Trial
Date: 8-11-25 c/f 1-27-25
 
FURTHER DOCUMENTS
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Limelight International, Ltd., et al. 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant, D. Masin Consulting, LLC
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiff
Limelight International Ltd., (Limelight) a Hong Kong based company authorized
to conduct business in California alleges an unspecified defaulted balance owed
by defendant RLoom LLC (RLoom) in 2022. On February 8, 2023, RLoom and
defendant D. Masin Consulting, LLC (D. Masin) executed a “General Assignment
for the Benefit of All Creditors,” whereby all assets were subject to
liquidation for payment of outstanding debts. Also on February 8, 2022, D.
Masin and RLoom Design Corp. aka Newstyle Fashion Inc. also entered into an
“Asset Purchase Agreement, whereby said assets were assigned by RLoom to D.
Masin were sold to Newstyle for $365,000. Limelight maintains an asset value of
at least $9,000,000, including its claimed outstanding debt.
 
On
October 3, 2023, Plaintiff filed its complaint for Malicious Prosecution,
Breach of Fiduciary Duty, Fraudulent Conveyance, Successor Liability, Aiding
and Abetting Breach of Fiduciary Duty, and Conspiracy to Fraudulently Transfer
Property. Following certain defendants answer to the complaint, the parties
stipulated to the filing of a first amended complaint. The first amended
complaint filed on January 3, 2024, alleges Malicious Prosecution, Breach of
Fiduciary Duty, Fraudulent Conveyance, Successor Liability, Aiding and Abetting
Breach of Fiduciary Duty, and Conspiracy to Fraudulently Transfer Property. On
January 3, 2024, Plaintiff dismissed the first cause of action for Malicious
Prosecution. 
 
On
February 20, 2024, the court overruled the demurrer to the first amended
complaint. Defendants answered the first amended complaint on March 1, 2024. 
 
RULING: Granted.
Request
for Judicial Notice: Granted.
 
Plaintiff Limelight International, Ltd., et al. moves to
compel further responses on Request for Production of Documents (set one),
numbers 1-10, against Defendant D. Masin Consulting, LLC. Plaintiff maintains
the objections lack merit, the promises to respond fail to statutorily comply,
and promised production otherwise never occurred. D. Masin Consulting, LLC in
opposition maintains that following the filing of the motion, all non-privileged
material was produced as promised, and only attorney client and attorney work
privileged documents remain withheld, which are identified in a privilege log.
Plaintiff in reply reiterates the deficiency of the responses, including lack
of code compliance thereby insuring full responsive production. Plaintiff
denies production of a complete privilege log. Plaintiff requests sanctions as
a result of the delayed production. Plaintiff alternatively moves for the
appointment of a discovery referee if the court is inclined to deny the motion,
thereby necessitating a second motion. 
 
“Whether a particular response does
resolve satisfactorily the issues raised by a motion is a matter best
determined by the trial court in the exercise of its discretion, based on the
circumstances of the case.” (Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 390, 408–409.) While D. Masin Consulting, LLC in
opposition represents full production of non-privileged material and a
privilege log, the counter position in reply challenges the completeness of
said further production, code compliance and a complete privilege log. 
 
The court declines to summarize and address each and every
disputed item, at least in part due the inability to conduct an item-by-item
examination of the alleged continuing deficiencies. The court accepts the
representations of Plaintiff regarding unaccounted for documents in the
privilege log, and insufficient statutory compliance. The court therefore
GRANTS the motion for purposes of compelling complete responses and production,
even if a substantial majority of production occurred, and the missing documents
were inadvertently or intentionally omitted.
 
The court orders the parties to further meet and confer in
order to address the deficiencies raised by Plaintiff in reply within 15 days
of this order. Defendant D. Masin Consulting, LLC to provide further code
compliant responses, full non-privileged production, and an updated privilege
log accounting for all withheld items within 15 days of the lapsed meet and
confer period.
 
Even if D. Masin Consulting, LLC were to establish
completeness at oral argument, thereby somehow vitiating the necessity of
ordering further meet and confer and production, the court adheres to a policy
that whenever a motion prompts a response demonstrating validity to the motion,
the court will impose sanctions in favor of the moving party. Given the delayed
production, withheld documents, and failure to produce a privilege log until
after the filing of the motion, the court imposes the statutory minimum of
$1,000 in sanctions joint and several against D. Masin Consulting, LLC and
counsel of record. Payable within 30 days. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2023.050, subd.
(a), 2031.310, subd. (h); 2031.320, subd. (d).) 
 
Two more motions to compel further responses to document
demands scheduled for October 31, and December 5, 2024. Plaintiff in reply
alternatively moves for potential appointment, but the court finds the
circumstances insufficiently support consideration barring a more articulated
showing, such as a requirement of direct review over each and every sought
after challenged item for review of issues like relevance, privilege, third
party privacy, etc. Such a showing requires a hearing under Code of Civil
Procedure section 639, subd. (a)(5); (Taggares
v. Superior Court (1998) 62 Cal. App. 4th 94, 105.) The parties may
alternatively stipulate to a discovery referee. The court can tailor any such
order to specific parties, with fee splitting and sanctions awards vested with
the referee, if applicable. The court reserves the right to sua sponte set an
OSC re: Appointment of Referee if potential future discovery disputes greatly
expand need and further usurp court resources.
 
Plaintiff to give notice to all parties.
 