  Case Number:  18BBCV00147    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  P  
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHEAST DISTRICT
 



INTERMEDIA FILM DISTRIBUTION,
  LTD., a California corporation,
 
                                           
  Plaintiff,
vs.
 
NBC
  UNIVERSAL MEDIA, LLC, and DOES 1-10, inclusive,
 
                                           
  Defendants.
 
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )
)
)
)
)
)


Case No.: 18BBCV00147
 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER SUSTAINING DEMURRER TO FOURTH AMENDED COMPLAINT WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND
 
Date:   October
  11, 2023
Time:  8:30 a.m.
Dept.:  P



 
          I.        INTRODUCTION
          This action concerns the relationship between parties concerning
the rights to a certain film known as Timecop and its sequels. Intermedia
Film Distribution, Ltd. (Intermedia) alleges that NBC Universal Media, LLC
(Universal) wrongly exercised certain rights Intermedia allegedly had to the
film. The original owner of the rights, Largo
Entertainment, Inc. (not a party to this action) sold the rights first to
Intermedia, and then re-sold them to LEI Development Projects, Inc. and its
principal, Christopher Taylor (LEI/Taylor). LEI/Taylor then sold the rights (which
were allegedly not theirs to convey) to Universal.
          LEI/Taylor successfully moved to compel arbitration. The arbitration
resulted in an award in Intermedia’s favor. Following confirmation of the
arbitration award as a judgment, Intermedia amended its complaint in this
action to assert claims solely against Universal. 
On May
16, 2023, this Court issued a lengthy ruling sustaining Universal’s demurrer to
the Second Amended Complaint with leave to amend. Intermedia filed a Third
Amended Complaint and then, pursuant to stipulation and order, it filed the
operative Fourth Amended Complaint (4AC). The matter that is now before the
Court is Universal’s demurrer to the 4AC. 
Because
the claims are time-barred, the demurrer is sustained without leave to amend. 
 
II.       SUMMARY
OF ALLEGATIONS 
This action concerns the rights to develop and
exploit sequels to Timecop, as well as  the right to proceeds from such sequels. Largo
originally owned both. Largo sold its assets in two key transactions, which are
relevant in this case:
(1) On May 9, 2000, Largo sold to Universal[1]
the right to “develop, produce, and exploit derivative works” based on Timecop.
Largo carved out and retained an exclusive right to distribute in Japan. (4AC,
¶8 and Exhibit A.)  This transaction is
referred to as the “Universal Purchase Agreement” or the 2000 UPA.
(2)  On
December 14, 2001, Largo sold to Intermedia “all rights, title, and interest”
in 25 films, including Timecop.  This
included all accounts receivable, and all assets and inventory in which Largo
had any interest related to the exploitation of an asset. Intermedia alleges
that, pursuant to this agreement, it acquired Largo’s remaining rights to Timecop
and any sequels. (4AC, ¶12 and Exhibit B.) This transaction is referred to as
the “Intermedia Asset Purchase Agreement” or the 2001 APA.
In addition to these two agreements, Intermedia alleges
that in June 2002, Largo purported to sell to LEI/Taylor all of its rights to
distribute Timecop 2: the Berlin Decision in Japan. (4AC, ¶18 and
Exhibits C and D.) Intermedia alleges that LEI then purported to sell the
Japanese distribution rights to Universal for $400,000. (4AC, ¶19 and Exhibit
E.)  
Intermedia alleges on information and belief that Universal
should have known that LEI did not own the rights it was purporting to sell because:
 (a) Universal was in possession of the
Intermedia Asset Purchase Agreement; and (b) Intermedia had recorded a broad
Assignment of Copyright Interest with the United States Copyright Office on
February 8, 2002. (4AC, ¶20.)
Intermedia alleges that Universal released Timecop
2 in the United States in about September 2003. (4AC, ¶25.)   Intermedia
alleges that “the exact day when Timecop 2 was released in Japan”
remains unclear.  (Id.)
Delayed discovery, discussed in further detail below,
is alleged at ¶¶23-25.
A summary of the arbitration involving Taylor and
LEI is set forth at ¶¶27-32. 
Based
on these factual allegations, Intermedia asserts the following causes of action
against Universal: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Breach of the Implied Covenant
of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (3) Intentional Interference with Contract; and
(4) Declaratory Relief. Universal demurs to all four causes of action.
 
III.     LEGAL
STANDARD
Code
Civ. Proc. §430.10(e) permits a demurrer on the basis that a complaint fails to
state a cause of action. A demurrer admits, provisionally for purposes of
testing the pleading, all material facts properly pleaded. (Tindell v. Murphy (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th
1239, 1247.) A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of a complaint. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) Allegations of a pleading are to be “liberally
construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.” (Code Civ.
Proc. §452.) 
 
          IV.     DISCUSSION 
          Universal
requests judicial notice of several documents. In analyzing the Universal demurrer,
the Court has taken into consideration only documents contained within the file
in this case. Judicial notice is not needed for documents within the same case;
but they  would be judicially noticeable
in any event pursuant to Evid. Code §452(d). 
Thus, the Court takes judicial notice of Exhibits A through H in
Universal’s RJN. 
          A. The Statute of Limitations and Delayed Discovery
          “A complaint showing on its face the cause of action is
barred by the statute of limitations is subject to general demurrer.” (Iverson,
Yoakum, Papiano & Hatch v. Berwald (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 990, 995; Vaca
v. Wachovia Mortgage Corp. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 737, 746 (Vaca).) 
Intermedia
alleged in its First Amended Complaint at ¶33 that Universal released Timecop
2 in Japan in 2003. This judicial admission cannot be avoided by
omitting it from later iterations of the pleading. (Lockton v. O’Rourke
(2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1051, 1061 [“admissions in an original complaint that
has been superseded by an amended pleading remain within the court’s cognizance
and the alteration of such statements by amendment designed to conceal
fundamental vulnerabilities in a plaintiff’s case will not be accepted”].)
          Claims of unauthorized use of a creative work accrue on the
date a work is released to the public. (NBC Universal Media, LLC v. Superior
Court (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 1222, 1229, fn. 3; 1231.) Here, that date is
2003. 
The
statute of limitations for breach of contract and breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing is four years. (Code Civ. Proc. §337(a);
Comunale v. Traders & Gen. Ins. Co. (1958) 50 Cal.2d 654, 662.) The
statute of limitations for intentional interference with contractual relations
is two years. (Code Civ. Proc. §339(1); Knoell v. Petrovich (1999) 76
Cal.App.4th 164, 168.) The statute of limitations for a declaratory relief
cause of action depends on the right or obligation to be enforced; when the
claim is based on a written instrument a four-year limit applies. (Ginsberg
v. Gamson (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 873, 883.) 
          As the release in Japan of Timecop 2 was a public (rather
a concealed) event, the statute of limitations arguably commenced in 2003. It
is unreasonable to assume that an entity in the film business such as
Intermedia could be unaware of the film’s 2003 Japan release; indeed,
Intermedia does not attempt to do so. Because this action was not filed until 2018,
fifteen years after the release in Japan, Intermedia’s claims are time-barred. 
          Even if the statute of limitations did not begin to accrue until
May 2014, when Intermedia began to inquire about its rights (and thus reflecting
its suspicions with regard to assignment agreements that followed its purchase
from Largo, see Exhibit G to 4AC), the claims are still time-barred.  The original Complaint was not filed until
November 2018, more than four years later.
          As the Court noted in its ruling sustaining the previous
demurrer with leave to amend, the public release of a film in Japan is not likely
to be something that could be undiscoverable at the time.  Nevertheless, the Court granted Intermedia
leave to amend so that it may address the problem.  In amending, Intermedia does not
allege that it did not discover the Japanese release until 2017, or that it
could not have discovered that fact earlier through the exercise of reasonable
diligence. Instead, the 4AC focuses the allegations on Intermedia’s knowledge
of Universal’s role in the release, rather than the timing of the release
itself. 
          Intermedia’s delayed discovery allegations are primarily
set forth at ¶¶23-25 of the 4AC. Intermedia alleges that on May 1, 2014, Intermedia
(through Ray Reyes) emailed Universal (through David Berg) to inquire about
selling its Timecop distribution rights. Intermedia alleges that Berg
ignored this email for three years, and that it was not until July 2017 that
Intermedia learned for the first time about the secret sale of its exclusive Japanese
distribution license.  (4AC, ¶24.) 
 
Paragraph
25 of the 4AC alleges in full:  
“Until
its discovery of the LEI Asset Purchase Agreement and Universal Japan Purchase
Agreement on July 14, 2017, Intermedia was unaware that Universal had a role in
distributing Timecop 2 in Japan and had no reasonable means to discover
this information because Japanese film distribution information is not readily
available through public sources [sic] information. Japan is a foreign
territory where sources of film distribution information are both not in
English and not readily available. Intermedia was and is a company with its
principal place of business in Los Angeles, and no offices in Japan.  As discussed above, the LEI Agreement and
Universal Japan Purchase Agreement were not public documents and they were
unknown to Intermedia until July 14, 2017. 
Indeed, to this day, the precise identity of the subdistributor in Japan
who distributed Timecop 2 remains unclear as well as the exact day when Timecop
2 was released in Japan (Timecop 2 was released in the United States
in or around September 2003).  Only upon
discovery of the LEI Asset Purchase Agreement and Universal Japan Purchase
Agreement on July 14, 2017, did Intermedia learn for the first time that
Universal had likely sublicensed the distribution rights to Timecop 2 in
Japan to a subdistributor and distributed the movie in Japan through the
subdistributor.”   
           Intermedia’s delayed
discovery allegations fail, because they are focused on discovery of the source
of distribution rather than the distribution itself.  The distribution   was the
“injury-producing” event. In the current version of its Complaint, Intermedia
alleges that Universal breached the UPA by authorizing a Japanese distributor
to distribute Timecop 2 in violation of Intermedia’s exclusive rights. (4AC,
¶38.)
          “ ‘The statute of limitations usually commences when a
cause of action “‘accrues,’” and it is generally said that “‘an action accrues
on the date of injury.’” [Citation.] Alternatively, it is often stated that the
statute commences “‘upon the occurrence of the last element essential to the
cause of action.’”’ [Citation.] ‘These general principles have been
significantly modified by the common law “‘discovery rule,’” which provides
that the accrual date may be “‘delayed until the plaintiff is aware of her
injury and its negligent cause.’” ’ [Citation.] Now, under the discovery rule,
‘ “the statute of limitations begins to run when the plaintiff suspects or
should suspect that her injury was caused by wrongdoing, that someone has done
something wrong to her.”’ [Citation.] 
          “Yet ‘ignorance of the identity of the defendant is not
essential to a claim and therefore will not toll the statute.’ [Citations.] ‘Aggrieved
parties generally need not know the exact manner in which their injuries were “‘effected,
nor the identities of all parties who may have played a role therein.”’ [Citation.]’”
(Vaca, supra, 198 Cal.App.4th at 743-744.)
          “Under the discovery rule, the statute of limitations
begins to run when the plaintiff suspects or should suspect that her injury was
caused by wrongdoing, that someone has done something wrong to her. [fn. 7] As
we said in Sanchez and reiterated in Gutierrez, the limitations
period begins once the plaintiff ‘ “has notice or information of circumstances
to put a reasonable person on inquiry....” ’ (Gutierrez, supra,
39 Cal.3d at pp. 896–897, 218 Cal.Rptr. 313, 705 P.2d 886, quoting Sanchez,
supra, 18 Cal.3d at p. 101, 132 Cal.Rptr. 657, 553 P.2d 1129 (emphasis
added by the Gutierrez court).) A plaintiff need not be aware of the specific ‘facts’
necessary to establish the claim; that is a process contemplated by pretrial
discovery. Once the plaintiff has a suspicion of wrongdoing, and therefore an
incentive to sue, she must decide whether to file suit or sit on her rights. So
long as a suspicion exists, it is clear that the plaintiff must go find the
facts; she cannot wait for the facts to find her.” (Jolly v. Eli Lilly &
Co. (1988) 44 Cal.3d 1103, 1110-1111.)
          In opposing the demurrer, Intermedia focuses on its lack of
knowledge that Universal had a role in the Japanese distribution of the
film. (Opposition at 10:9-20 and 11:9-20.) “Intermedia’s claims are based on NBCU’s
involvement in the wrongful scheme to distribute Timecop 2 in Japan, not
merely the unauthorized distribution of Timecop 2 in Japan by some unknown
subdistributor.” (Id. at 12:1-3, emphasis in original.) As discussed
however, the proper focus is knowledge of the injury, not the identity
of the particular individual or entity who had a role in causing it. The
Japanese distribution put Intermedia on inquiry notice in 2003. Further,
Intermedia has revealed that it was on inquiry notice as of May 2014 when Ray
Reyes sent his email to David Berg. (See Exhibit G to the 4AC). Intermedia
could not thereafter wait for other facts to “find” it before filing suit. 
Therefore,
Universal’s demurrer to all four causes of action of the Fourth Amended
Complaint are sustained, without leave to amend. 
          The Court recognizes that this is a somewhat anomalous
result, because the arbitrator reached a contrary conclusion with respect to
the statute of limitations as it pertained to LEI/Taylor. But Universal is not
bound by that decision, as it was not a party to the arbitration proceeding nor
in privity with a party. (DKN Holdings LLC v. Faeber (2015) 61 Cal.4th
813, 825.)
          B.  Res Judicata and Judicial
Estoppel
          Because the demurrer is sustained based upon expiration of
the statute of limitations, Universal’s arguments regarding res judicata and
judicial estoppel are not necessary to the Court’s ruling. They are mentioned only
briefly here. 
The
gist of the 4AC is that LEI/Taylor sold Universal rights they did not possess. The
Arbitrator found that Intermedia had substantiated this allegation. Arbitration
Award at 20:23-26.[2]
 In issuing his award, the Arbitrator
declared that he would exercise his equitable powers. Accordingly, he ruled as
follows:
- The Japanese distribution
rights are vested in Intermedia pursuant to the APA (33:2-8);
- The Japanese distribution
rights are vested in Universal pursuant to the LEI-Universal 2002 Agreement
(33:9-12);
- Neither LEI nor Taylor had
the right to sell the Japanese distribution rights to Universal (33:13-16);
- The transfer of rights in
the Largo-LEI 2002 Agreement and the LEI-Universal 2002 Agreement are deemed
void and of no force or legal effect (33:17 – 34:3);
-The $400,000 payment should
have been made to Intermedia (34:4-5);
- To cure this injustice,
LEI/Taylor is ordered to repay the $400,000 they received from Universal to
Intermedia for the sale of the Japanese distribution rights within 30 days of issuance
of the final award (34:6-12);
- In addition, and in order
to cure the injustice and to implement an equitable solution, Intermedia is
deemed to be the rightful successor-in-interest to Largo and assignee of Largo
with respect to the contractual obligations and benefits of the UPA and steps
into Largo’s shoes under that agreement (34:13-21);
- If Universal moves forward
on a Timecop 3 (which it is free to do), Universal will be required to
pay the “rights payment” and back-end payments to Intermedia (34:22-35:4);
-Now that Intermedia is the
successor-in-interest and assignee of Largo with respect to the Largo-Universal
2000 Agreement, the Japanese distribution rights as to Timecop 3 and
other subsequent productions are vested in Intermedia.  If Universal wants to purchase such rights it
must purchase them from Intermedia (35:5-14). 
          It is difficult to see how Intermedia has not already
achieved through the Arbitration  Award (now
Judgment) substantially all the relief to which it is entitled. Through the
equitable solution fashioned by the arbitrator, Intermedia is entitled to be paid
for the Japanese distribution rights that were wrongly sold to Universal (pursuant
to which Timecop 2 was released); and it retains the Japanese
distribution rights as to any future productions. Intermedia argues that
because the Award clarifies that it holds the exclusive Japanese license it is
entitled to pursue claims against Universal for its breach. (Opposition at 15:6-7.)
As to Timecop 2, however, the Arbitrator’s equitable solution provides
for Intermedia to be paid the $400,000 that Universal paid to LEI/Taylor. Intermedia
is not estopped to sue for future breaches, but those are not at issue in the
current litigation. 
 
 
 
 
 
V.       CONCLUSION
          Universal’s demurrer to the Fourth Amended Complaint is
sustained without leave to amend for the reasons stated in the moving and reply
papers and as discussed above. The claims are all barred by their applicable
statutes of limitation. This is not a defect that can be cured by further
amendment.
          Universal is ordered to prepare and lodge a proposed judgment
of dismissal within 10 days. Universal is also ordered to give notice of this
ruling.
 
 
 
Dated:                                                              _______________________________
                                                                              MARGARET L. OLDENDORF
                                                                       JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT


