 Case Number:  21STCV24836    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  P  
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHEAST DISTRICT
 



J.P., a minor, by and through her Guardian Ad Litem DOMINICA
  MITCHELL; K.P., a minor, by and through his Guardian Ad Litem LYNETTE GRULLON;
  X.P., a minor, by and through his Guardian Ad Litem LYNETTE GRULLON; and
  TEWITT POWELL, as personal representative on behalf of the ESTATE OF KEVIN
  POWELL, SR., decedent,
 
                                           
  Plaintiffs,
vs.
 
FIRST TO SERVE, INC., a
  California corporation; VAGABOND INN CORPORATION, a California corporation;
  LEKENDRECK RICHARDS, an individual; OLIVIA COBAIN, an individual; Go RN LLC;
  Lizzet Zepeda Yeo, an individual; Vista Inn Glendale, LLC; Vista Investments
  Mgmt. Co., Inc.; and Vagabond Glendale, LLC and DOES 6 through 20, inclusive,

                                           
  Defendants.

AND
  RELATED CROSS ACTIONS


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )
)
)
)
)
)


Case No.: 21STCV24836
 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER ON MOTION FOR DETERMINATION OF GOOD FAITH OF SETTLEMENT
 
Date:   October
  11, 2023
Time:  8:30 a.m.
Dept.:  P



 
          
 
I.        INTRODUCTION
            This action concerns the
death of Kevin Powell Senior (Decedent), who died during an epileptic seizure
at the Vagabond Inn. Decedent was a recipient of transitional housing provided
as a part of a housing program for homeless individuals. Defendant First to Serve, Inc. (FTS) was a corporation that
managed and operated the subject hotel where the incident occurred. Defendants Lekendrick Richards (Richards), and Olivia
Cobain were employees of FTS, serving as project manager of the hotel and head
nurse of the hotel, respectively. FTS contracted with City of Glendale
and Los Angeles Homeless Services Authority to provide housing for chronically
homeless individuals. The Los Angeles Homeless Services Authority then
separately contracted with Go RN to provide medical services to housing
recipients. 
 Plaintiffs are the minor children of decedent
and personal representative of the estate of decedent. They sued Vagabond Inn,
First to Serve, Inc., Lekendrick Richards and Olivia Cobain for (1) wrongful
death, (2) negligence, (3) survival action and (4) negligent hiring, training
and retention. Defendants Go RN LLC, Lizzet Zepeda Yeo, Vista Inn Glendale LLC,
Vista Investments Managements Co. and Vagabond Glendale LLC were later
substituted for Doe defendants. 
            Defendant Richards and FTS (collectively defendants)
filed this motion for determination of the good faith of their settlement with
plaintiffs. The motion is unopposed. 
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD
Any party to an action may move for an
order determining whether a settlement between the plaintiff and one or more
alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors was made in good faith.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 877.6, subd. (a)(1).) Determining the good faith of a
settlement requires a trial court to find that the amount of the settlement is
within the reasonable range of the settling tortfeasor’s proportional share of
comparative liability for the plaintiff’s injuries. Making such a determination
requires the examination of the Tech-Bilt factors: 1) a rough
approximation of plaintiff’s total recovery and the settlor’s proportionate
liability; (2) the amount paid in settlement; (3) the allocation of settlement
proceeds among plaintiffs; (4) a recognition that a settlor should pay less in
settlement than he would if he were found liable after a trial; (5) the
financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling defendants; and
(6) the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the
interests of the non-settling defendants. (Tech-Bilt, Inc. v.
Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 498-501.) 
The moving party
on an unopposed motion for determination of good faith settlement,
however, is not required to set forth a full discussion of the Tech-Bilt
factors by declaration or affidavit. The moving party on an unopposed motion
for determination of good faith settlement need only advance a motion setting
forth the basic grounds for the determination of good faith and a declaration
setting forth a brief background of the case. (City of Grand Terrace v.
Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261 [emphasis added.])  
 
            III.      DISCUSSION
            Here,
plaintiffs sued defendants based on negligent medical care. Defendants then filed a
cross-complaint for indemnification, declaratory relief, apportionment of
fault, equitable implied indemnity, full indemnity and contribution against
Cross-Defendant Go RN. According to defendants, the evidence in
this matter indicates that negligent medical care was provided by Go RN when medical
care was not given promptly and 911 was not called. Defendants dispute liability
but have settled with plaintiffs for $ 500,000.00. As the motion is uncontested
and the evidence before the Court suggests that defendants agreed to settle
with plaintiffs without any collusion, fraud, or other improper conduct, the
Court grants the motion. 
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
AND ORDER 
Therefore, the Court grants
Defendant’s motion for determination of good faith settlement per Code of Civil
Procedure section 877.6.  Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and
file proof of service of such.  
 
          
Dated:                                                              _______________________________
                                                                              MARGARET L. OLDENDORF
                                                                       JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT