   [1] Defense counsel denies receiving  any indication from Plaintiffs’ counsel about his availability on Fridays at  1pm. Plaintiffs’ counsel avers that he provided this information during meet  and confer on other cases. (Partiyeli Decl. ¶¶ 3-4.) Thus, Plaintiffs do not  appear to have clearly indicated their availability for depositions in this  case. In any event, making one statement about availability does not justify  ignoring all of the other communications from Defendant.   


 
CORNELIA ROSALES, et
  al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
VERMONT CITY LIGHTS LP,

                        Defendant.



 
  Case No.:  23STCV01764
  Hearing Date:  August 7, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant’s motion to preclude
  improperly designated experts, set fees of experts, and extend time for
  expert discovery  




 


 




BACKGROUND

            On January 17, 2023, Plaintiffs
Cornelia Rosales, Jose Juventino Rosales, and Jose Alfredo Rosales filed this
landlord-tenant action against Defendant Vermont City Lights LP alleging
uninhabitable conditions. 

            On July 12, 2024, Defendant filed
the instant motion to preclude improperly designated experts, to set the fees
of experts, and to extend the time for expert discovery. Plaintiffs filed their
opposition on July 23, 2024.  

DISCUSSION

I.
Improperly Designated Experts

            “After the setting of the initial
trial date for the action, any party may obtain discovery by demanding that all
parties simultaneously exchange information concerning each other’s expert
trial witnesses.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.210.) “If any expert designated by a
party under subdivision (a) . . . has been retained by a party for the purpose
of forming and expressing an opinion in anticipation of the litigation or in
preparation for the trial of the action, the designation of that witness shall
include or be accompanied by an expert witness declaration under Section
2034.260.” (Id., § 2034.210(b).) This declaration must contain, inter
alia, “[a] representation that the expert has agreed to testify at the
trial.” (Id., § 2034.260(c)(3).) “[T]he trial court shall exclude from
evidence the expert opinion of any witness that is offered by any party who has
unreasonably failed to do any of the following: . . . (a) List that witness as
an expert under Section 2034.260 . . . (b) Submit an expert witness declaration
. . . .” (Id., § 2034.300.)

            Plaintiffs’ expert designation lists
nine witnesses for which Plaintiff has failed to include a declaration stating
that the expert has agreed to testify at trial: Meier Fire Investigation; Guhan
Subramanian; Amy Chua; Carol Brown; Dr. Gladys Frankel; Dr. Jeffery Alan Sugar;
Mark R. Levitt; Eric Garcia; and Joseph Palanca. (McPhillips Decl., Ex. A.)
Plaintiffs do not address this in their opposition. Therefore, these witnesses
are precluded from testifying at trial. 

II.
Witness Fees

“If a party desiring to take the
deposition of an expert witness under this article deems that the hourly or
daily fee of that expert for providing deposition testimony is unreasonable,
that party may move for an order setting the compensation of that expert.
Notice of this motion shall also be given to the expert.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2034.470(a).) The expert or the party designating the expert shall provide the
following information: (1) proof of the ordinary and customary fee actually
charged and received by that expert for similar services provided outside the
subject litigation; (2) the total number of times the presently demanded fee
has ever been charged and received by that expert; and (3) the frequency and
regularity with which the presently demanded fee has been charged and received
by that expert within the two-year period preceding the hearing on the motion.
(Id., § 2034.470(c), (d).) 

Defendant argues that several of
Plaintiffs’ designated experts have charged excessive fees and that Plaintiffs
have failed to provide the requisite supporting information. However, a motion
to set expert compensation must be noticed to the expert. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2034.470(a).) The information supporting the fees may be provided either by the
party designating the expert or the expert himself. (Id., § 2034.470(c),
(d).) Plaintiffs’ experts deny receiving any notice of the motion. (Partiyeli
Decl. ¶ 3.) Thus, Plaintiffs’ failure to provide information supporting the
claimed fees is not dispositive, because the experts themselves should have
been given notice of the motion and an opportunity to provide the requisite
evidence. 

While the Court denies the motion for the
procedural defect of failing to notice the experts, the Court notes that the
fees do appear to be excessive on their face. (See Mtn. 3:23-4:4.) 

III.
Extension of Time for Expert Discovery

            While Defendant’s notice of motion
purports to move for an extension, Defendant provides no argument or analysis
on this point. Therefore, the Court does not reach this issue. 

CONCLUSION

            Defendant’s motion to exclude
improperly designated experts is GRANTED.

            Defendant’s motion to set expert
fees and extend time for expert discovery is DENIED without prejudice.  

 