 Case Number:  23STCV01764    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  32      CORNELIA ROSALES, et    al.,                         Plaintiffs,             v.   VERMONT CITY LIGHTS LP,                             Defendant.           Case No.:  23STCV01764   Hearing Date:  August 7, 2024        [TENTATIVE]    order RE: defendant’s motion to compel deposition                BACKGROUND             On January 17, 2023, Plaintiffs  Cornelia Rosales, Jose Juventino Rosales, and Jose Alfredo Rosales filed this  landlord-tenant action against Defendant Vermont City Lights LP alleging  uninhabitable conditions.              On July 10, 2024, Defendant filed  the instant motion to compel Plaintiffs’ depositions. Plaintiffs filed their  opposition on July 23, 2024. Defendant filed its reply on July 30, 2024.  LEGAL STANDARD “If, after service of a deposition notice,  a party to the action . . . without having served a valid objection under  Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination . . . or  to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or  tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice  may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and  the production for inspection of any document … described in the deposition  notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450(a).)   DISCUSSION I.  Factual Background Defense counsel began inquiring as to  Plaintiffs’ availability for deposition beginning on April 5, 2024. (McPhillips  Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. A.) Plaintiffs’ counsel responded on April 7, 2024, stating that  the parties could confer the following Monday. (Ibid.) Plaintiffs’  counsel did not reach out on Monday, and defense counsel sent a follow-up email  on April 10, 2024. (Ibid.) Plaintiffs still did not respond, prompting  Defendant to issue deposition notices on April 11, 2024. (Ibid.) Defense  counsel apologized for the unilaterally-set dates and asked Plaintiffs to  provide alternative dates. (Ibid.)              On April 12, 2024, Plaintiffs  responded to the deposition notices, objecting on the grounds that the dates  were unilaterally set, that the notices state the depositions will continue  “day to day” despite the seven-hour limit, and that Plaintiffs are unavailable  on the listed dates. (McPhillips Decl. ¶ 5, Ex. E-G.) In the response,  Plaintiffs also stated they would not agree to continue the trial date, which  at the time was set for June 4, 2024. (Ibid.)              On April 16, 2024, defense counsel sent  another meet and confer email attempting to resolve the matter informally.  (McPhillips Decl. ¶ 6, Ex. H.) Given the impending discovery cutoff, Defendant  gave Plaintiffs until April 18, 2024 to respond before a motion would be filed.  (Ibid.) Plaintiffs did not respond on April 18, 2024, prompting  Defendant to file a motion to compel, along with an ex parte application  to shorten the time for hearing the motion. (Ibid.) On April 23, 2024,  the Court granted the ex parte application and continued the trial to  September 24, 2024. (Id., Ex. K.)              Defendant thereafter took the motion  to compel off calendar and emailed Plaintiffs on April 24, 2024, attempting  once again to ascertain available dates for deposition. (McPhillips Decl. ¶ 7,  Ex. L.) Plaintiffs again failed to respond, prompting a follow-up email on June  26, 2024. (Id., ¶ 8, Ex. M.) Plaintiffs ignored that communication as  well, prompting another follow-up email on July 5, 2024. (Id., ¶ 8, Ex.  N.) Plaintiffs also did not respond to that email. (Id., ¶ 8.) II.  Plaintiffs’ Opposition             Plaintiffs argue that the motion is  procedurally improper because a motion to compel deposition only applies when  the deponent “fails to appear for examination” (Code Civ. Proc., §  2025.450(a)), and Plaintiffs have not “failed to appear” because no deposition  actually took place. Plaintiffs further contend that Defendant violated the  Superior Court’s civility guidelines by unilaterally scheduling the depositions  and failing to take into account the availability of Plaintiffs and their  counsel. (See Guidelines for Civility in Litigation, Rule (e)(2).) During meet  and confer on other cases concerning the same subject premises, Plaintiffs’  counsel expressed to Defendant that he was available for depositions on Fridays  at 1pm. (Partiyeli Decl. ¶¶ 3-4.)  III.  Analysis a. Defendant Reasonably Accommodated  Plaintiffs’ Availability Plaintiffs’ argument overlooks the  extensive history of Defendant’s attempts to ascertain Plaintiffs’  availability, beginning in April 2024. Plaintiffs ignored the majority of the  communications from Defendant. When Defendant issued the deposition notices  because Plaintiffs did not respond to prior communications, Defendant  apologized for the unilateral dates and asked for alternative dates. Plaintiffs  do not dispute any of these facts. The record easily reflects Defendant’s  “reasonable consideration” for the availability of Plaintiffs and their  counsel. (See Guidelines for Civility in Litigation, Rule (e)(2).)                Assuming Plaintiffs clearly  indicated their availability on Fridays at 1pm[1], Plaintiffs  also demanded that the depositions take place on a single day only. (See McPhillips  Decl. ¶ 5, Ex. E-G.) Given that Defendants are entitled to depose each  Plaintiff for up to seven hours (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.290(a)), this would  mean that the depositions could last up to 8pm on Fridays, which is highly  impractical. Thus, if anything, Plaintiffs are the ones failing to account for  Defendant’s schedule. Defense counsel was under no obligation to stipulate to  this single limited timeframe.              b. Defendant Was Not Required  to Hold a Deposition Before Filing This Motion             Plaintiffs cite no authority for  their proposition that a motion to compel deposition cannot be filed until the  deposing party actually holds the deposition. Plaintiffs made clear in their  response to the deposition notice that they would not comply with the notice.  The record also demonstrates that Plaintiffs ignored Defendant’s communications  and refused to provide their availability. Plaintiffs offer no reason why this  should not be considered a “failure to appear” for purposes of section  2025.450(a). Defendant is not required to expend time and resources holding  three futile depositions before moving to compel Plaintiffs’ compliance with  their discovery obligations.             Additionally, the Court has both  inherent and statutory authority to make orders to ensure the orderly  administration of justice. (See Walker v. Superior Court (1991) 53  Cal.3d 257, 266-67; Code Civ. Proc., § 128.) The Court has discretion to “establish  the sequence and timing of discovery for the convenience of parties and  witnesses and in the interests of justice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2019.020(b).) “Management  of discovery lies within the sound discretion of the trial court.” (Johnson  v. Superior Court (2000) 80 Cal.App.4th 1050, 1061.) “Failing to respond or  to submit to an authorized method of discovery” constitutes a misuse of the  discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010(d).) Therefore, the Court has  discretion to order the depositions even if such an order is not expressly  authorized by section 2025.450(a).        CONCLUSION             Defendant’s motion to compel  deposition is GRANTED. Plaintiffs Cornelia Rosales, Jose Juventino Rosales, and  Jose Alfredo Rosales shall appear for their respective depositions within 15  days of this order.        