 Case Number:  23STCV09530    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
LEXI BURROWS, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
TOUCHSTONE GOLF, LLC,
  et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV09530
  Hearing Date:  August 7, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiff’s motion to compel compliance
  with requests for production (CRS# 7870) 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On April 28, 2023, Plaintiffs Lexi
Burrows and Brooklynn Lundberg filed this employment action against Defendants
Touchstone Golf, LLC, Ashley Walston, Peter Wagner, and the City of Burbank.
Plaintiffs assert claims stemming from harassment, discrimination and
retaliation, wrongful termination, and wage violations. Plaintiffs allege that
they experienced and spoke out against sexual harassment and discrimination,
and reported illegal or unsafe working conditions, only to suffer retaliation
for doing so.  
            On July 10, 2024, Plaintiff Burrows
filed the instant motion to compel Defendant Touchstone to comply with its
statements of compliance in RFP, Set Three. Touchstone filed its opposition on
July 25, 2024. Plaintiff filed her reply on July 31, 2024.  
DISCUSSION 
I.
Electronically Stored Information
“If a demand for production does not
specify a form or forms for producing a type of electronically stored
information, the responding party shall produce the information in the form or
forms in which it is ordinarily maintained or in a form that is reasonably
usable.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.280(d)(1), emphasis added.) 
Here, the RFPs do specify the form of ESI
to be produced. (See Schein Decl., Ex. 3 [“Electronically stored information
shall be produced in native format or, should the parties agree, in some other
mutually agreeable format”].) When Touchstone responded to the RFPs with
statements of compliance, it did not object to this instruction, and the
parties did not agree to another format. Therefore, Touchstone agreed to
produce documents in native format. Because the production demand specifies a
form of production, Touchstone cannot simply produce documents in any form it
deems “reasonably usable.” Instead, Touchstone must comply with its own
agreement to produce documents in native format.  
II.
Email Attachments and Text Messages
            “If a party filing a response to a
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling . . . thereafter fails to
permit the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling in accordance with that
party’s statement of compliance, the demanding party may move for an order
compelling compliance.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.320(a).)
            Touchstone does not dispute that certain
emails were produced without attachments and that it did not produce any text
messages. Therefore, Touchstone’s production is incomplete. The quantity of
Touchstone’s prior productions has no bearing on Touchstone’s compliance with
the discovery at issue here, RFP Set Three. Whether Plaintiff met and conferred
about this issue is immaterial because this motion concerns Touchstone’s
compliance with its own representations. A motion to compel compliance has no
meet and confer requirement. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.320.)  
III.
Sanctions
            Touchstone’s failure to produce ESI
in native format per its own agreement and to produce complete documents is
without substantial justification. Therefore, sanctions are warranted. The
requested amount of $11,575—based on 10.5 hours, a $950 hourly rate, and $1,600
in fees—is excessive compared to the complexity of the motion. (See Schein
Decl. ¶¶ 51-53.) The Court instead awards $1,860 for 4 hours at a rate of $450,
plus a $60 filing fee. 
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiffs’ motion to compel
compliance is GRANTED. Within 20 days of this order, Touchstone shall produce
all nonprivileged responsive material in its possession and produce ESI in
native format. The Court sanctions Touchstone and its counsel in the total
amount of $1,860, to be paid within 30 days of this order.   