  Case Number:  23STCV10614    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  73 H. Duane Weaver, et al. v. Lance Jay Robbins Paloma
Partnership, et al. (23STCV10614)
 
Counsel for Plaintiff/opposing party:
Lisa G. Salisbury (Salisbury Group, Inc.) 
Counsel for Defendant/moving
party:  Thomas A. Nitti (Law Offices of
Thomas A. Nitti)
 
Motion for
Order Requiring plaintiffs to furnish a bond pursuant to cal. corp. code § 15910.06
(filed 06/26/2023)
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Defendants 7th
St. Associates, Inc., Lance Jay Robbins Paloma Partnership, and Lance Jay
Robbin’s
Motion for Order Requiring Plaintiffs to Furnish a Bond Pursuant to Cal. Corp.
Code § 15910.06 is denied. Defendants do not carry their burden. 
 
Discussion
 
On May 10, 2023, Plaintiffs H. Duane
Weaver (“Weaver”) and Negative Asset Limited
Partnership (“NALP”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”)
initiated this direct and derivative lawsuit against Lance Jay Robbins Paloma
Partnership (“Paloma Partnership”), 7th St. Associates, Inc. (“7th St. Associates”) and Lance Jay Robbins (“Robbins”) (collectively, “Defendants”). The Verified Complaint asserts the
following causes of action: 
 
            C/A
1: Breach of Fiduciary Duty (Derivative-Direct)
            C/A
2: Breach of Contract (Derivative-Direct)
            C/A
3: Abuse of Control (Derivative-Direct)
            C/A
4: Appointment of Receiver (Derivative-Direct)
            C/A
5: Declaratory Relief (Direct)
            C/A
6: Accounting (Direct)
            C/A
7: Violation of Inspection Rights (Direct)
            C/A
8: Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and/or Retention (Derivative)
            C/A 9: Negligence (Derivative)
 
Plaintiffs allege that they formed the
Paloma Partnership with Robbins in the 1980s to acquire a 58-unit apartment
building located at 15 Paloma Avenue, California 90291, which is referred to as
the Ellison Apartments and it is a rent stabilized building. (Compl. ¶ 15.)
Based on the building permits, the Ellison Apartments is recognized as an
apartment building. (Id. at ¶
25.)
 
On October 23, 2015, the partners of
the Paloma Partnership executed an amended and restated agreement of limited partnership.
(Id. at ¶ 16, Exh. 1.) Pursuant to this partnership agreement, 7th
St. Associates was appointed as the sole general partner, and Robbins was
appointed as the managing partner. (Id. at ¶¶ 18-19.) Under Article 1, Section
1.4 of the partnership agreement, the purpose of the Paloma Partnership was to
operate the Ellison Apartments for rental, to hold it for investment, and “to
conduct all such other activities as may be necessary or incidental to, or
desirable in connection with, the foregoing, including, without limitation
engaging in any and all lawful business activities relating or incidental to
these purposes. . . .” (Id. at ¶
20.) As general partner, 7th St. Associates had “the
sole and exclusive right and power to manage and operate the business of the
Partnership and to Manage and control the assets of the Partnership. . . .” (Id. at ¶ 21.) Also, as long as the proper
avenues were taken, the partnership agreement afforded Robbins the ability to
convert the Ellison Apartments into a lawful hotel. (Id. at ¶ 22.) On July 20, 2019, these
partners executed an additional agreement titled “Amendment #1.” (Id. at ¶ 17, Exh. 2.)
 
Due to this mismanagement, the Paloma
Partnership has received roughly “500 
violations of various  health,
safety, and fire codes, along with numerous other violations of state and local
laws.” (Id. at ¶
24.) Rather than abide by the terms of the partnership agreement, Plaintiffs
further allege that 7th St. Associates and Robbins have engaged in
gross mismanagement of the Paloma Partnership by allowing the Ellison
Apartments to fall into disrepair and by causing the Paloma Partnership to be
subject to city violation order, notices and various legal proceedings. (Id. at ¶ 23.) Also, despite being designated
an apartment, 7th St. Associates and Robbins have been improperly
operating the Ellison Apartments as a hotel or short term rental, and this has
caused the Paloma Partnership to be subject to various lawsuits. (Id. at ¶¶ 26-27.) Moreover, Plaintiffs argue
that the Defendants have failed to make the required distributions under the
partnership agreement, and that Robbins falsely claimed there to be “insufficient
cash flow” as the reason for this failure, despite providing 7th St.
Associates with its monthly distribution. (Id. at ¶¶ 28-29.) Furthermore, Defendants
have frustrated Plaintiffs attempts to inspect the Paloma Partnership’s
books and records in connection with the calculation and payment of
distributions. (Id. at ¶¶
30-31.)
 
In connection with their derivative
action, Plaintiffs further allege that making a formal demand on the general
partner for Paloma Partnership to bring an action to enforce its right would be
futile per Corporations Code § 15910.02 because informal negotiations have
broken down with Robbins and 7th St. Associate and have grown
adversarial. (Id. at ¶
35.)
 
On
June 26, 2023, Defendants filed the subject motion for order requiring
Plaintiffs to furnish bond pursuant to California Corporations Code § 15910.06, arguing:
·                    
Defendants argue that there is a
probability that there is no reasonable possibility that the prosecution of
this action will benefit the Paloma Partnership or its partners because the
Complaint is based on the false premise that usage of the Ellison Apartments
for short-term rentals was improper. Rather, in a separate action
(20STCV11588), the superior court found in Paloma Partnership’s favor that the
practice of using the Ellison Apartments for short terms rentals was allowable.
It is further noted that this decision was appealed at pending at the Second
District Court of Appeal (case number B324441) (Motion at pg. 5.)
·                    
Defendants also argue that the
prosecution of this action will not benefit the partnership or its partners
because Plaintiffs are in substantial breach of the amended to the partnership
agreement, dated July 20, 2019, by failing to provide certain capital
contributions in the amount of $518,043.54. (Motion at pg. 5.)
In
opposition, Plaintiffs argues that:
·                    
Defendants narrowly restricts the
Complaint to the issue surrounding the operation of the Ellison Apartments as a
short-term rental. However, the larger issue the formed the basis of the causes
of action is that the Defendants have mismanagement the Paloma Partnership and
drained its resources and allowed the property to fall into disrepair.
(Opposition at pg. 6.) 
·                    
Also, there are still issues of
habitability and Defendants’ failure to make required distributions to
Plaintiffs. (Opposition at pg. 7.)
·                    
Moreover, they argue that Defendants
claim that Plaintiffs breached the amendment to the partnership is a red
herring because Defendants’ purported breaches began in 2018, which was prior
to the execution of the amendment. (Opposition at pp. 9-11.)
·                    
Furthermore, any assertion of breach
by the Plaintiffs is an issue in dispute, and such matters cannot support a
motion to furnish bond. (Opposition at pg. 8, relying on Hale v. S. Cal. Ipa
Medical Group (2001), 86 Cal. App. 4th 919, 923.)
In reply, Defendants contend issues of
disrepair should not come at a surprise when the Ellison Apartments is 100
years old, and Defendants are unaware of any outstanding code violations.
(Reply at pg. 2.) Moreover, Defendants assert that they prevailed in the appeal
of the superior court’s decision in case no. 20STCV11588. (Ibid.)

 
JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Defendants request the Court to take judicial notice of the
following documents: (1) August 2, 2022 Court Order re: the Motion for Summary
Judgment in LASC Case No. 20STCV11588, City of Los Angeles v. Lance Jay
Robbins Paloma Partnership, et al.; and (2) the complaint submitted on June
20, 2023 in LASC Case No. To Be Assigned, 7th St. Associates, Inc.,
et al. v. H. Duane Weaver, et al. The Court shall take judicial notice of the
existence of these documents pursuant to Evidence Code § 452(d) but shall only take
judicial notice of the truth of facts asserted in the order issued on August 2,
2022 in LASC Case no. 20STCV11588. (6 Witkin, California Procedure, 4th
Edition, 2000, Proceedings Without Trial, § 210, p.622.)
 
ANALYSIS
 
A.      Legal
Standard for Motion to Furth Bond Pursuant to Corporations Code § 15910.06
 
Pursuant to Corporations Code §15910.06
it stated in pertinent part: 
 
(a)
In any derivative action, at any time within 30 days after service of summons
upon the limited partnership or the general partner, the limited partnership or
general partner may move the court for an order, upon notice and hearing,
requiring the plaintiff to furnish a bond as hereinafter provided. The motion
shall be based upon one or both of the following grounds: 
 
(1)
That there is no reasonable possibility that the prosecution of the cause of
action alleged in the complaint against the moving party will benefit the
limited partnership or its partners. 
.
. . 
 
(b)
At the hearing upon any motion pursuant to subdivision (a) the court shall
consider such evidence, written or oral, by witnesses or affidavit, as may be
material (1) to the ground or grounds upon which the motion is based, or (2) to
a determination of the probable reasonable expenses, including attorneys' fees,
of the limited partnership and the general partner which will be incurred in
defense of the action. If the court determines, after hearing the evidence
adduced by the parties, that the moving party has established a probability in
support of any of the grounds upon which the motion is based, the court shall
fix the amount of the bond, not to exceed fifty thousand dollars ($50,000), to
be furnished by the plaintiff for reasonable expenses, including attorneys
fees, which may be incurred by the moving party and the limited partnership in
connection with the action, including expenses for which the limited
partnership may become liable pursuant to¿subdivision (c) of Section 15904.06.
A ruling by the court on the motion shall not be a determination of any issue
in the action or of the merits thereof. If the court, upon motion, makes a
determination that a bond shall be furnished by the plaintiff as to any one or
more defendants, the action shall be dismissed as to the defendant or
defendants, unless the bond required by the court has been furnished within
such reasonable time as may be fixed by the court. 
 
The burden of establishing that there
is no reasonable possibility of the action benefiting the partnership and its
shareholders¿is on the party moving for security. (See Burt v. Irvine Co.
(1965) 237 Cal.App.2d 828, 868 (construing former Corporations Code §834).)  
 
The moving party need not show that
all causes of action would not benefit the corporation. (Bailey v. Fosca Oil Co. (1960) 180
Cal.App.2d 289, 295-297.) Otherwise, plaintiffs could include a large number of
unjustified causes in a complaint containing one good one, and defeat the
purposes of the statute. (Id. at 296-297.) Thus, a plaintiff may be
required to post a bond based on a showing that any cause of action asserted in
the complaint has no reasonable possibility of benefiting the partnership or
its partners. 
 
B.      Merits
 
Here, in an effort to
establish that there is no reasonable possibility this action will benefit the
Paloma Partnership or its shareholders, Defendants present two arguments. The
Court shall address each in turn. First, they contend that the litigations surrounding
the usage of the Ellison Apartments as a short-term rental business is trending
in their favor because the Superior Court in case no. 20STCV11588
ruled this usage was allowable pursuant to People v. Venice Suite, LLC (2021)
71 Cal.App.5th 715. (Motion at pg. 5; Exh. A.) Thus,
even though there are disputes pending, Defendants assert that the remaining
actions will also lean in their favor.  
 
However, this
argument misconstrues the scope of the complaint. The issue of whether conduct
of the Defendants in using the Ellison Apartments as a short-term rental
without proper approval and the ensuing lawsuits are just one theory of
liability that supports the claims of breach of fiduciary duty, breach of
contract, and others. For instance, even if the usage of the property as a
hotel was proper, there is still a pending lawsuit by the City of Los Angeles
alleging the Paloma Partnership owes the city $1.5 million in unpaid transit
occupancy taxes, interest, and penalties. (Compl. ¶ 27(c).) Defendants fail to
explain how the resolution in LASC No. 20STCV11588 would resolve this legal
dispute. Thus, there is a basis to support that Defendants mismanaged the
Paloma Property by forcing litigation that would harm the partnership. Also, the
Complaint alleges breach on the grounds that Defendants have allowed the
Ellison Apartments to fall into disrepair and have failed to make the required
monthly distributions to Plaintiffs per the partnership agreement. (Compl. ¶¶ 24,
29-31.) Thus, while Defendants do not have to show that every cause of action
raised in the Complaint will fall short of benefitting the Paloma Partnership
and its shareholders, this argument fails show how any cause of action has no
reasonable possibility of the action benefiting the partnership and its
shareholder. As a result, the Court denies Defendants’ motion on this ground.
 
Next, Defendants contend that this
action has no probability of benefiting the Paloma Partnership or its
shareholders because Plaintiffs are in breach of the amendment to partnership
agreement by failing to provide necessary capital contributions. (Motion at pg.
5; Exh. B.) In support of this argument, Defendants solely rely on a complaint
that they have filed on June 20, 2023. (Exh. B.) However, reliance on this
unverified complaint is sufficient for them to meet their burden in requiring
Plaintiffs to post bond pursuant to Corporations Code § 15910.06. As Plaintiffs
assert in their opposition, the issue of whether they in fact breached the
amendment to the partnership agreement is in dispute. (Opposition at 8.)  A complaint is not evidence, just allegations.
Thus, because Defendants have failed to meet there burden here, this argument
also fails. 
 
Accordingly, the motion is denied.
Defendants do not carry their burden. 
Defendants are ordered to give notice. 
