  Case Number:  21STCV38730    Hearing Date:   April 8, 2024    Dept:  50  
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 




JOHN CHOU,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
AIR TIGER EXPRESS (USA) INC., et al., 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


21STCV38730




Hearing Date:


April 8, 2024




Hearing Time:


2:00 p.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
DEFENDANTS AIR
  TIGER EXPRESS (USA) INC. AND MATHEW TRAN’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR, IN
  THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 




 
 
Background
Plaintiff
John Chou (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on October 20, 2021 against
Defendants Air Tiger Express (USA) Inc. (“ATE”) and Matthew Tran (“Tran”)
(jointly, “Defendants”). The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1)
discrimination on the basis of age, (2) harassment, (3) retaliation, (4)
failure to prevent discrimination, harassment, or retaliation, and (5) wrongful
termination in violation of public policy. 
Defendants
now move for summary
judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication. Plaintiff opposes. 
Request for Judicial Notice 
The
Court grants Defendants’ request for judicial notice as to “Exhibit 4” attached
to the request. The Court denies Defendants’ request for judicial notice of the
statement in paragraph 1 of the request. The Court notes that “[a] party requesting judicial notice of
material under Evidence Code sections 452 or 453 must
provide the court and each party with a copy of the material.” (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1306, subd. (d).) Defendants
do not provide any evidence substantiating the statement set forth in paragraph
1 of the request.
Evidentiary Objections 
The
Court rules on the parties’ Second Amended Joint Statement of Objections
Re Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary
Adjudication, as follows: 
Defendants’ Objections 
Objection No. 1: sustained  
Objection No. 2: sustained 
Objection No. 3: sustained 
Objection No. 4: overruled
Objection No. 5: overruled 
Objection No. 6: sustained as to the third sentence, overruled as to
the remainder.  
Objection No. 7: overruled as to “TRAN displayed unwarranted hostility
towards Mr. Chou, as well as other aged personnel such as me,” sustained as to
the remainder. 
Objection No. 8: overruled 
Objection No. 9: sustained
Objection No. 10: overruled as to the first sentence, sustained as to
the remainder.  
Objection No. 11: sustained 
Objection No. 12: overruled 
Objection No. 13: sustained  
Objection No. 14: sustained 
Objection No. 15: sustained as to the fifth and sixth sentences,
overruled as to the remainder. 
Objection No. 16: sustained
Objection No. 17: overruled 
Objection No. 18: sustained as to “in an attempt to humiliate her
because of her age,” overruled as to the remainder.  
Objection No. 19: overruled as to “[t]hat same day, TRAN sent emails
to me and other employees regarding an 8% adjustment in pay from April to
December of 2020,” sustained as to the remainder.  
Objection No. 20: overruled
Objection No. 21: overruled 
Objection No. 22: sustained 
Objection No. 23: sustained 
Objection No. 24: overruled (note: no question included)
Objection No. 25: overruled (note: no question included)
Objection No. 26: overruled 
Objection No. 27: overruled
Objection No. 28: sustained 
Objection No. 29: sustained 
 
Plaintiff’s Objections 
Objection No. 1: overruled
Objection No. 2: overruled 
Objection No. 3: overruled
Objection No. 4: overruled
Objection No. 5: overruled[1]
Objection No. 6: overruled 
Objection No. 7: sustained as to “even if Mr. Chou had made such a
complaint, it would not have been and was not a factor in selecting him for
layoff,” overruled as to the remainder. 
Objection No. 8: overruled 
Objection No. 9: overruled 
Legal Standard
“[A] motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.” ((Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “A party may move
for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action,
one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or
more issues of duty, if the party contends that the cause of action has no merit,
that there is no affirmative defense to the cause of action, that there is no
merit to an affirmative defense as to any cause of action, that there is no
merit to a claim for damages, as specified in Section
3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more defendants either owed or did
not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs.” ((Id., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) “A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only
if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim
for damages, or an issue of duty.” (Ibid.)  
The moving party bears the initial burden of production to
make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.
((Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) If
the moving party carries this burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party
to make a prima facie showing that a triable issue of material fact exists. ((Ibid.) Courts
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” ((Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) 
When a defendant seeks summary judgment or summary
adjudication, he/she must show either (1) that one or more elements of the
cause of action cannot be established; or (2) that there is a complete defense
to that cause of action. ((Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (p)(2).) 
 
Plaintiff’s Objection and Request to
Strike Defendants’ Amended Reply Separate Statement 
On February 2, 2024, Defendants filed an
“Amended Reply Separate Statement in Support of Defendants’ Motion for Summary
Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication.” Plaintiff cites to Nazir v.
United Airlines, Inc. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 243, 252, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he deficiencies carried over to the reply papers, which
included a 297-page reply separate statement. There is no provision in the
statute for this.” The Court thus grants Plaintiff’s request that the Court
strike Defendants’ reply separate statement. 
Discussion
A.    Allegations of the Complaint 
In the Complaint,
Plaintiff alleges that he “was employed by ATE for approximately seventeen
years, beginning in or around April 23, 2003, as an Operations Clerk. Plaintiff
worked for ATE until his unlawful termination on March 31, 2020.” (Compl., ¶
14.) “In or about March of 2019, Stehanie Hang was promoted to Branch Manager
and became Plaintiffs supervisor. Stephanie Hang moved Plaintiff to the
Customer Service Department.” (Compl., ¶ 21.) “Angelita Gavino, Plaintiff’s
co-worker, was also assigned to the Customer Service Department.” (Compl., ¶
21.) “In or about May 2019, Plaintiff’s co-worker Angelita Gavino asked
Stephanie Hang to
go out to lunch with both her and Matt
Tran.” (Compl., ¶ 22.) Plaintiff alleges that “during the lunch meeting, Matt
Tran stated ‘those idiot old men upstairs from accounting are pissing me off.’
Matt Tran was referring to Plaintiff and other personnel over the age of 40
years. Matt Tran further stated to Stephanie Hang that, ‘she should terminate
both John Chou and Joseph because they are both old mother fuckers.’ Matt Tran
further stated, ‘If am ever promoted, I would get rid of all the old people.’” (Compl.,
¶ 22.) 
Plaintiff alleges that “[i]n
or about November 2019, Matt Tran was promoted to Assistant Manager in Customer
Service. Matt Tran would treat Plaintiff with disdain during their
interactions, which confused Plaintiff as to why. Matt Tran would treat
Plaintiff as if he were incompetent or mimic him as being slow. Tran would
stare at Plaintiff and would otherwise intentionally try to make Plaintiff feel
uncomfortable. On several occasions Angelita Gavino overheard Matt Tran using
profanity against Plaintiff saying, ‘that old motherfucker.’” (Compl., ¶ 24.) Plaintiff
alleges that “[o]n or about February 25, 2019, Plaintiff complained to his
supervisor Stephanie Hang about Matt Tran’s discriminatory comments regarding
Plaintiffs age.” (Compl., ¶ 26.) 
Plaintiff alleges that
“[o]n or about March 20, 2020, the governor of the State of California
announced a mandatory state lockdown.” (Compl., ¶ 27.) “Defendants advised all
employees to work from home and take the company laptop home with them.
Defendants then sent out an email to all employees announcing that all
employees would be getting an 8% payroll deduction. However, neither Plaintiff
nor the older employees received a copy of this email and were not offered a
payroll reduction.” (Compl., ¶ 28.) Plaintiff alleges that “[o]n or about March
23, 2020, Plaintiff (age 63) was informed that he and Angelita Gavino (age 56
with a disability), and ‘Patty’ (age 48 with a disability) were all going to be
terminated from their jobs. As a result of Plaintiffs age, and complaints of a
hostile work environment, Plaintiff was harassed, discriminated, and retaliated
against and ultimately terminated from his employment for false and pre-textual
reasons.” (Compl., ¶ 29.) 
 
B.   
First
Cause of Action for Discrimination on the Basis of Age 
In the Complaint,
Plaintiff alleges that “[a]fter Plaintiff was terminated relative
to his employment, his duties and responsibilities were given to a younger
employee, in violation of FEHA. Plaintiff’s employment was terminated due to
his age. Plaintiff was sixty-two (62) years old when he was terminated relative
to his employment based on false and pretexual [sic] reasons.” (Compl., ¶ 41.) Defendants assert that
Plaintiff’s first cause of action fails because “the evidence shows that ATE
had a legitimate, non-discriminatory reason for laying Plaintiff off.” (Mot. at
p. 14:13-14.) Defendants assert that Plaintiff cannot establish that such “legitimate
and non-discriminatory reason” was a pretext for discrimination. (Notice of Motion at p.
2:18-20.) 
“It is an unlawful employment practice . . . (a) [f]or an employer, because of the race, religious creed,
color, national origin, ancestry, physical disability, mental disability,
reproductive health decisionmaking, medical condition, genetic information,
marital status, sex, gender, gender identity, gender expression, age, sexual
orientation, or veteran or military status of any person, to refuse to hire or
employ the person or to refuse to select the person for a training program
leading to employment, or to bar or to discharge the person from employment or
from a training program leading to employment, or to discriminate against the
person in compensation or in terms, conditions, or privileges of employment.”
((Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (a).) 
California applies the burden-shifting
formula set forth in McDonnell Douglas
Corp. v. Green (1973) 411 U.S.
792, 802,[2]
under which a plaintiff must first establish a prima facie case
of discrimination by showing
that: (1) he or she was a member of a
protected class, (2) he or she was qualified for and performing
competently in the position he or she held, (3) he or she suffered an adverse
employment action, and (4) conduct by the employer suggesting that it is more
likely than not that the adverse employment action was due to a discriminatory
motive. (Guz v. Bechtel National, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 355.) If the plaintiff establishes a prima facie case,
the burden shifts to the employer to rebut the presumption of discrimination by offering a legitimate
nondiscriminatory reason for the adverse employment action. (Ibid.)
If the employer meets this burden, the presumption of discrimination disappears, and the burden
shifts back to the plaintiff to produce evidence that the employer’s reasons
for the adverse employment action were a mere pretext for discrimination. (Id.
at p. 356.)[3] 
            In
the motion, Defendants argue that “while Plaintiff may be able to
establish factors (1) through (3), he cannot establish discriminatory motive.
The evidence shows that Plaintiff was laid off due to ATE’s cost-cutting plan
in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.” (Mot. at p. 14:19-21.) 
Defendants submit
the Declaration of Stephanie Hang, the Branch Manager for the Los
Angeles branch office of ATE. (Hang Decl., ¶ 1.) Ms. Hang states that “[i]n March 2020,
due to COVID-19 and the supply chain crisis, which significantly impacted ATE’s
industry, ATE implemented an emergency cost-cutting plan that included a
fifteen percent reduction in its workforce. ATE CEO David Xiao directed the
fifteen percent company-wide layoff and other reductions in salary as
cost-cutting measures as a response to the pandemic.” (Hang Decl., ¶ 11.) Ms.
Hang further states that “Mr. Chou was laid off with thirteen others
nationwide, including six in the ATE-LAX office alone. The age range of those
terminated in ATE-LAX range from 27 to 63 (Mr. Chou). Mr. Chow, I, and each
department head participated in selecting the employees to be laid off from
ATE-LAX.” (Hang Decl., ¶ 12.) Ms. Hang states that “Mr. Tran did not
participate in the layoff selection process.” (Hang Decl., ¶ 13.) 
Defendants also assert that “here, Plaintiff testified that he does
not have any proof that Tran’s comments were related to his
termination…Plaintiff is unable to establish that he was terminated because of
his age.” (Mot. at p. 14:25-28.) Defendants cite to the following testimony from Plaintiff’s
deposition: “(The record was read by the reporter as follows: ‘Q So
my question is, what witnesses do you have who to your knowledge have evidence
Matt Tran’s comments were related to your termination?’) THE WITNESS: I don’t
have any proof.” (Watts Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. B (Chou Depo.) at p. 257:17-23.)          
            In the opposition, Plaintiff asserts
that “the evidence shows that ATE had a discriminatory reason for laying
Plaintiff off.” (Opp’ at p. 8:22-23.) In his supporting declaration, Plaintiff
states that “Matt Tran would treat me with disdain during our interactions,
which confused me as to why. Matt Tran would treat me as if I were incompetent
or mimic me as being slow. Tran would stare at me and would otherwise
intentionally try to make me feel uncomfortable.” (Chou Decl., ¶ 9.) At lunch, Matt
Tran referred to Plaintiff as ‘that old man;” he also said to Stephanie Hang
that if he was “ever promoted, [he] would get rid of all the old people.” (Gavino
Decl., ¶ 26.)
Plaintiff asserts that “[t]o further appease Tran, Plaintiff was
selected for termination…” (Opp’n at p. 9:17-18.) Plaintiff cites to the
following testimony from his deposition: “Q. Okay. Sir, okay. So you go to
Stephanie’s office. Matt Tran had actually resigned. Was it your understanding
that Stephanie wanted Matt Tran to come back to work? A. Yes. Q. And it was your
understanding that, according to Stephanie, Matt Tran had told Stephanie that
you had to be, quote, end quote, out of his face. Did Stephanie actually use
that language ‘out of his face’? A. The language is not out of his face out of
-- is if he -- if Stephanie wants him back to work, I cannot be in the same
department, same office. Q. The same department or the same office, sir? A.
Same location, City of Industry customer service area.” (Denis Decl., ¶ 2, Ex.
A (Chou Depo.) at p. 165:22-166:10.) In addition, Plaintiff cites to the
following testimony from his deposition: “Q…Same question, sir, so what
evidence do you have that connects her asking you to move to your termination?
A[.] In connection of that is [sic] she told me about Matt Tran doesn’t want me
to be in the department, and then Stephanie tell me to move...” (Denis Decl., ¶
3, Ex. B (Chou Depo.) at p. 259:18-22.) 
In his supporting declaration, Plaintiff states that “[o]n February
25, 2020, I complained to my supervisor Stephanie Hang about Matt
Tran’s…comments regarding my age.” (Chou Decl., ¶ 11.) Plaintiff states that on
March 23, 2020, at age 63, he was informed that he was going to be terminated.
(Chou Decl., ¶ 14.) Plaintiff asserts that he “was replaced by substantially
younger employees by name of Samantha Lu, at some point a guy named Kevin and a
girl named Candy.” (Chou Decl., ¶ 15.) 
Plaintiff also asserts that
Defendants’ reason for laying Plaintiff off is pretextual. As discussed,
Defendants provide evidence that “ATE CEO David Xiao directed the
fifteen percent company-wide layoff and other reductions in salary as
cost-cutting measures as a response to the pandemic.” (Hang Decl., ¶ 11.)
Plaintiff asserts that “when Defendants implemented their alleged ‘cost-cutting,’
15% reduction in workforce ‘nation-wide,’ they focused primarily on Los
Angles…and did not implement their reduction ‘nation-wide,’ at their other
locations.” (Opp’n at p. 2:17-19.) As discussed, Ms. Hang states that “Mr. Chou
was laid off with thirteen others nationwide, including six in the ATE-LAX
office alone.” (Hang Decl., ¶ 12.) 
Plaintiff also asserts that “Defendants targeted older tenured
employees and used the pandemic as a pretext,” and that Defendants “even hired
new employees (as temporary workers) after letting go of the older employees.”
(Opp’n at p. 2:19-21.) As discussed, Plaintiff states that “[o]n March 23,
2020, [he] (age 63)” was informed that he was going to be terminated, and that
he “was replaced by substantially younger employees by name of Samantha Lu, at
some point a guy named Kevin and a girl named Candy.” (Chou Decl., ¶¶ 14-15.) In
addition, in her supporting declaration, Angelita Gavino states that “[o]n
March 24, 2020, [she] was informed that [she] (56 with a disability)” was
terminated from her job. (Gavino Decl., ¶ 36.) Plaintiff also submits the Declaration of Patricia
Maravilla, who was employed at ATE “for a period of almost twenty-one years,
beginning on August 18, 1999, as a receptionist.” (Maravilla Decl., ¶ 1.) Ms. 
Maravilla
states that “[o]n March 24, 2020…[she] received an email from HANG, stating
that they were terminating [Maravilla’s] employment…” (Maravilla Decl., ¶ 14.)
Ms. Maravilla states that she “was older as were those selected in the Los
Angles [sic] office and had provided over twenty years of service to the
company…” (Maravilla Decl., ¶ 14.) 
In light of the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has raised a triable issue of
material fact regarding whether “some
other circumstance suggests discriminatory motive.” (Guz v. Bechtel
National, Inc., supra, 24
Cal.4th at p. 355.) The Court also finds that Plaintiff raised a
triable issue of material fact regarding whether Defendants’ proffered reason
for termination is pretextual. Thus, the Court does not find that summary
adjudication of the first cause of action is warranted. 
C.    Second Cause of Action for Harassment 
Government Code section 12940, subdivision
(j)(1) provides that it is an unlawful employment practice “[f]or an employer…or any other
person, because of race, religious creed, color, national origin, ancestry,
physical disability, mental disability, medical condition, genetic information,
marital status, sex, gender, gender identity, gender expression, age, sexual
orientation, reproductive health decisionmaking, or veteran or military status,
to harass an employee, an applicant, an unpaid intern or volunteer, or a person
providing services pursuant to a contract.” 
To
establish a prima facie case for harassment, a plaintiff must show that (1) he
was a member of a protected class; (2) he was subjected to unwelcome
harassment; (3) the harassment was based on membership in the protected class;
(4) the harassment unreasonably interfered with his work performance by
creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment; and (5) the
[employer] is liable for the harassment. (¿Thompson v. City of Monrovia (2010) 186
Cal.App.4th 860, 876¿; see also ¿Dickson v. Burke Williams, Inc. (2015)
234 Cal.App.4th 1307, 1313¿ [“¿One of the
elements of a harassment claim . . . is that the harassment be sufficiently
severe or pervasive so as to alter the conditions of employment and create an
abusive working environment.¿”].) 
In
the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges that he “was subjected to
harassment based on his age, including the termination. Defendants tolerated
the discriminatory atmosphere and behavior at work, including the following: a.
Defendant TRAN would make demeaning remarks about older personnel, such as
‘idiot old men’ ‘she should terminate both John Chou and Joseph because they
are both old mother fuckers’ ‘If I am ever promoted, I would get rid of all the
old people’ and similar disparaging commentary; b. Defendants allowed TRAN to
target Plaintiff with stares, mocking and other negative behavior towards
Plaintiff and those similarly situated due to age or other protected
characteristics. c. Defendants ignored Plaintiffs complaints about differential
mistreatment and instead protected TRAN as ‘just venting.’ d. Despite having
knowledge of TRAN’s mistreatment and discriminatory attitude towards older
personnel, such as Plaintiff, Defendants promoted him to Assistant Manager in
Customer Service in a maneuver to oust the older employees. e. On several
occasions, TRAN was overheard using profanity that was directed at Plaintiff
and those similarly situated, such as ‘that old motherfucker.’” (Compl., ¶ 51.)
In
the motion, Defendants argue that “[e]ven if the…alleged conduct
identified by Plaintiff were true and/or Plaintiff’s perception of Tran’s
conduct were true, they are not severe or sufficiently pervasive as to alter
the conditions of Plaintiff’s employment and create a work environment that
qualifies as hostile or abusive.” (Mot. at p. 20:10-13.) Defendants point to
the following testimony from Plaintiff’s deposition: “Q[.] So it seems like you
and Mr. Tran had had tension ever since you were assigned to customer service,
correct? A [.] It’s not considered as tension, but the approach is not correct.
Q[.] Whose approach is not correct, sir? A[.] Matt’s approach. Q[.] And why is
his approach not correct? A[.] Because the way that he is showing that he is the
boss but he is not the boss.” (Watts Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. B (Chou Depo.) at p.
211:12-21.) Defendants assert that “[t]his is not a case of…harassment but mere
office politics.” (Mot. at p. 20:15-16.) 
In addition, Defendants
cite to Doe v. Department of Corrections &
Rehabilitation (2019) 43
Cal.App.5th 721, 737, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[w]orkplaces can be stressful and relationships between
supervisors and their subordinates can often be contentious. But FEHA was
not designed to make workplaces more collegial; its purpose is to
eliminate more insidious behavior like discrimination and harassment based on
protected characteristics.”  Defendants argue
that “[h]ere, there is no evidence of insidious behavior like
discrimination and harassment based on protected characteristics, specifically,
age,” because “[o]ther than Gavino…Plaintiff admits that no one else ever told
him Tran made age-related comments and/or that there is evidence Tran treated
anyone negatively because of their age.” (Mot. at p. 21:3-7.) 
Defendants note that Plaintiff testified in his deposition as follows:
“So let me just ask this as a global question. In the entire time that you
worked at Air Tiger Express, did you ever hear yourself Matt Tran make a
negative comment about people based on their age? A. To my understanding, no.”
(Watts Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A (Chou Depo.) at p. 125:21-25.) In addition, Defendants
cite to the following testimony: “Q. Sir, did you ever hear Matt Tran say the
words ‘old motherfucker,’ ever? A. Not in front of me.” (Id.
at p. 126:22-24.) Defendants also cite to the following testimony: “Q. Did
you ever hear Matt Tran make a statement that anyone should terminate Angie
because she is an old motherfucker or because she is old? A. I don’t hear it
personally. Q. Did you ever hear Matt Tran make the statement if I’m ever
promoted, I would get rid of Angie or other old people? A. That is from Angie
told me about that statement. Q. But you never heard it yourself? A. I never
heard it myself. Q. Did anyone, other than Angie, ever tell you that Matt Tran
made similar statements? A. Sorry. Repeat. (The record was read as requested.)
THE WITNESS: No.” (Id. at p. 131:8-22.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiff asserts that Defendants are not entitled
to judgment on the second cause of action for harassment because the harassment
was severe and/or pervasive. Plaintiff points to Tran’s statement during the
lunch meeting discussed above. Plaintiff appears to acknowledge that “these
comments were not made directly to Plaintiff,” but asserts that such point is a
“red herring.” (Opp’n at p. 14:6.) Indeed, in the motion, Defendants do not
appear to cite any legal authority demonstrating that Tran’s statements must
have been made directly to Plaintiff in order for Plaintiff to state a cause of
action for harassment.   
Plaintiff also asserts that “the evidence shows that the criticism,
and mocking, and false allegations, and suggestions that Plaintiff was [old]
with derogatory comments, adversely affected Plaintiff’s ability to do his
job.” (Opp’n at p. 16:15-17, emphasis omitted.) As set forth above, Plaintiff
testified in his deposition as follows: “Q. Okay. Sir, okay. So you go to
Stephanie’s office. Matt Tran had actually resigned. Was it your understanding
that Stephanie wanted Matt Tran to come back to work? A. Yes. Q. And it was
your understanding that, according to Stephanie, Matt Tran had told Stephanie
that you had to be, quote, end quote, out of his face. Did Stephanie actually
use that language ‘out of his face’? A. The language is not out of his face out
of is if he -- if Stephanie wants him back to work, I cannot be in the same
department, same office. Q. The same department or the same office, sir? A.
Same location, City of Industry customer service area.” (Denis Decl., ¶ 2, Ex.
A (Chou Depo.) at p. 165:22-166:10.) 
Plaintiff also points to his testimony that “[a]s long as I have the
idea or the information about Matt Tran talking about that comment, I didn’t
take immediate action until the day that I was call in the room with Stephanie
saying that he is having a comment of either take him or get me away.” (Id. at p. 114:11-15.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has raised a
triable issue of material fact regarding whether the “harassment
[was] sufficiently severe or pervasive so as to alter the conditions of
employment and create an abusive working environment.” (Dickson v. Burke
Williams, Inc., supra, 234
Cal.App.4th at p. 1313.) Thus, the Court does not find that summary
adjudication of the second cause of action is warranted.
D.    Third Cause of Action for Retaliation 
In
the third cause of action for retaliation, Plaintiff alleges, inter
alia, that “[t]he retaliatory actions of Defendants against
Plaintiff, as more fully set forth above, include but are not limited to: a.
Retaliation against Plaintiff for complaining about age discrimination; b.
Retaliating against Plaintiff for exercising his FEHA rights for complaining of
disparate treatment due to age and requesting intervention to stop
mistreatment; c. Terminating Plaintiff because of Plaintiff’s age.” (Compl., ¶
62.)
“[I]n
order to establish a prima facie case of retaliation under the FEHA, a
plaintiff must show (1) he or she engaged in a ‘protected activity,’ (2) the
employer subjected the employee to an adverse employment action, and (3) a
causal link existed between the protected activity and the employer’s action.”
(Yanowitz v. L'Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1042.)
Protected activity includes opposing “any practices forbidden” under FEHA or
filing a complaint, testifying, or assisting in any proceeding under FEHA. (Gov. Code, section 12940, subd. (h).)¿¿¿ 
In the motion, Defendants
assert that Plaintiff “believes his complaint is connected to his
termination because of the proximity of time.” (See Defendants’ UMF No.
56.) Defendants
point to the following testimony from Plaintiff’s deposition: “Q[.]…Can
you tell me all the reasons that you believe that your termination was related
to age discrimination? A [.] Okay. The comments just like the comment from Mr.
Matt Tran and then the harassment which is really also from Matt Tran and also
the conversation between Stephanie and me asking me about some -- something
about moving me to other places and then – there’s a lot -- the retaliation of
how they treat me without proper handling of switching my title and then also
the thing, the complaint that I leaked to Stephanie about the unfair treatment
that I received. Q[.] The complaint about the unfair treatment, that was the
complaint that you made to Stephanie Hang on February 25th, 2020, correct? A[.]
Yes.” (Watts Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. B, p. 255:18-256:7.) As discussed, Plaintiff
alleges that on March 23, 2020, he was terminated. (Compl., ¶ 29.) 
Defendants note that “temporal proximity alone is not
sufficient to raise a triable issue as to pretext once the employer has offered
evidence of a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for the termination.” (Arteaga
v. Brink's, Inc. (2008) 163
Cal.App.4th 327, 353.) As discussed, Defendants assert that here,
ATE had a legitimate, non-discriminatory reason for laying Plaintiff off. As
set forth above, Ms. Hang states that “[i]n March 2020, due to COVID-19 and the
supply chain crisis, which significantly impacted ATE’s industry, ATE
implemented an emergency cost-cutting plan that included a fifteen percent
reduction in its workforce. ATE CEO David Xiao directed the fifteen percent
company-wide layoff and other reductions in salary as cost-cutting measures as
a response to the pandemic.” (Hang Decl., ¶ 11.) 
Plaintiff asserts that Defendants are not entitled to
judgment on Plaintiff’s third cause of action for retaliation. Plaintiff
asserts that he “engaged in a protected activity when he resisted and
complained of the discrimination and harassment of Tran on February 25, 2020.”
(Opp’n at p. 13:12-13.) As discussed, Plaintiff states in his supporting
declaration that “[o]n February 25, 2020, I complained to my supervisor
Stephanie Hang about Matt Tran’s…comments regarding my age.” (Chou Decl., ¶ 11.)
Plaintiff notes that approximately one month later, on March 23, 2020,
Plaintiff was informed that he was going to be terminated. (Chou Decl., ¶ 11.) Plaintiff
cites to Light v. Department of Parks & Recreation
(2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 75, 91, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[i]n order to establish a prima
facie case of retaliation under FEHA, a plaintiff must show (1) he or she
engaged in a protected activity, (2) the employer subjected the employee to an
adverse employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between the
protected activity and the employer’s action. The requisite causal link
may be shown by the temporal relationship between the protected activity and
the adverse employment action.” (Internal quotations omitted.) 
Plaintiff also asserts that
Defendants’ reason for laying Plaintiff off is pretextual. As set forth above,
Defendants state that “ATE CEO David Xiao directed the fifteen
percent company-wide layoff and other reductions in salary as cost-cutting
measures as a response to the pandemic.” (Hang Decl., ¶ 11.) As discussed, Plaintiff
asserts “when Defendants implemented their alleged ‘cost-cutting,’ 15%
reduction in workforce ‘nation-wide,’ they focused primarily on Los Angles
[sic]…and did not implement their reduction ‘nation-wide,’ at their other
locations.” (Opp’n at p. 2:16-19.) As set forth above, Ms. Hang states that
“Mr. Chou was laid off with thirteen others nationwide, including six in the
ATE-LAX office alone.” (Hang Decl., ¶ 12.)[4] Plaintiff
also asserts that “Defendants targeted older tenured employees and used the
pandemic as a pretext.” (Opp’n at p. 2:19-21.) As discussed, Plaintiff states
that “[o]n March 23, 2020, [he] (age 63)” was informed that he was going to be
terminated, and that he “was replaced by substantially younger employees by
name of Samantha Lu, at some point a guy named Kevin and a girl named Candy.”
(Chou Decl., ¶¶ 14-15.)[5] 
Based on the foregoing, the
Court does not find that Plaintiff relies solely on temporal proximity to create a triable
issue as to pretext. (Arteaga v. Brink's, Inc.,
supra, 163 Cal.App.4th 327, 353.)
The Court finds that Plaintiff has
raised a triable issue of material fact regarding whether he can establish his
cause of action for retaliation. Thus, the Court does not find that summary
adjudication of the third cause of action is warranted.
 
E.    
Fourth Cause of Action for Failure to Take All Reasonable Steps to
Prevent Discrimination, Harassment, and Retaliation 
Government Code section 12940, subdivision (k), prohibits an
employer from failing “to take all reasonable steps necessary to prevent
discrimination and harassment from occurring.”¿“An employer who knows or should
have known of unlawful harassment and retaliation, and fails to take immediate
and appropriate corrective action, may be liable for the resulting
damages…However, because the statute does not create a stand-alone tort, the
employee has no cause of action for a failure to investigate unlawful
harassment or retaliation, unless actionable misconduct occurred.” (Thompson
v. City of Monrovia, supra, 186 Cal.App.4th at p. 880.) Defendants
argue that “Plaintiff’s cause of action for failure to prevent is
derivative of his FEHA claims, and must fail for the same reasons.” (Mot. at p.
22:15-16.)    
Because the Court denies summary adjudication on the
discrimination, harassment, and retaliation causes of action, the Court also
denies summary adjudication on the fourth cause of action for failure to
prevent discrimination, harassment, or retaliation.    
F.     Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public
Policy 
“The
elements of a claim for wrongful discharge in violation of public policy are
(1) an employer-employee relationship, (2) the employer terminated the
plaintiff’s employment, (3) the termination was substantially motivated by a
violation of public policy, and (4) the discharge caused the plaintiff harm.” (Yau v. Allen (2014)
229 Cal.App.4th 144, 154.) A discharge in violation of the FEHA may
give rise to a common law claim for wrongful discharge. (Stevenson
v. Superior Court (1997) 16
Cal.4th 880, 897.) 
Defendants
assert that “Plaintiff’s cause of action for wrongful termination
is predicated on Plaintiff’s allegations of discrimination and retaliation.
Given that Plaintiff cannot establish that ATE violated FEHA, this cause of
action fails as a matter of law.” (Mot. at p. 22:20-22.) As discussed, the
Court denies summary adjudication on the
discrimination and retaliation causes of action. Thus, the Court also denies
summary adjudication on the fifth cause of action for wrongful termination in
violation of public policy.     
G.    Punitive Damages 
Plaintiff
seeks punitive damages in connection with each of the causes of action of the
Complaint. (Compl., ¶¶ 48, 60, 71, 88, 98.) Summary adjudication may be granted
as to a claim for punitive damages even though it does not dispose of an entire
cause of action. (¿Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1)¿.) An award of punitive damages “¿is authorized ‘in addition to the actual
damages’ where ‘the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud or malice,
express or implied.’¿” (¿Alterauge v. Los
Angeles Turf Club (1950) 97 Cal.App.2d 735, 739¿.) 
Defendants
assert that “while Plaintiff claims that Tran made age-related
discriminatory statements on one occasion, which Plaintiff did not personally
hear, and that Tran treated Plaintiff with ‘disdain’ by ignoring Plaintiff, not
talking to Plaintiff and having a facial expression on his face that Plaintiff
interpreted in a negative light, such conduct does not rise to malice or
oppression.” (Mot. at p. 23:11-15.) “‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause
injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) “‘Oppression’ means
despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Civ.
Code,¿§ 3294, subd. (c)(2).) “Despicable conduct is conduct that is so
vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be
looked down¿upon and despised by ordinary decent people.” (Johnson & Johnson Talcum Powder Cases¿(2019) 37
Cal.App.5th 292, 332-333 [internal quotations omitted].)  
Defendants assert
that “Plaintiff testified that the age-related comments were
initially not important to him; he never heard Tran make discriminatory
statements.” (Mot. at p. 23:20-21.) Defendants cite to the following testimony from Plaintiff’s
deposition: “Q. Okay. So whenever that was when Angelita Gavino
told you about it, you did not feel comfortable reporting that. Is that
correct? A. No. Is not uncomfortable, is I’m thinking about that is not that
important to me at that stage Q. Okay. Sir did you -- so it’s safe to say then
that you did not file any kind of complaint whenever Angelita Gavino first told
you about those statements, correct? A. Yes. Q. Including a verbal complaint,
right? A. Yes. Q. Sir, this is going to be a global question. Maybe we can
short circuit this. At any point in time, did you ever file or present a
written complaint in any form about what you perceived to be discrimination or
harassment on the basis of age to anyone at Air Tiger Express? A. No.” (Watts
Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A (Chou Depo.) at p. 114:20-115:12.) 
            As an initial matter, Plaintiff
asserts that “Defendants don’t raise anything related to punitive damages in
the separate statement therefore the court should deny summary adjudication as
to this issue.” (Opp’n at p. 18:5-7.) But Defendants’ Separate Statement does
reference Plaintiff’s punitive damages claim. Defendants’ Separate Statement
lists “Issue No. 9: Plaintiff is not entitled to punitive damages
because he has not proffered any evidence, much less clear and convincing
evidence, which supports an award of punitive damages.” (See Defendants’
Separate Statement at p. 22:22-27.) 
            In the opposition, Plaintiff also asserts
that “[l]ogic dictates that terminating Plaintiff because he is older, where it
is known to be difficult for older employees to find comparable employment and
for reporting vile statements by a supervisor, had a high probability of
causing harm.” (Opp’n at p. 17:16-19, emphasis omitted.) But Plaintiff does not
appear to cite to any evidence demonstrating that it was difficult for him to
find comparable employment. 
            Plaintiff also asserts that
“Defendant’s conduct not only damaged Plaintiff but undermined the FEHA.”
(Opp’n at p. 17:22.) Plaintiff notes that in Flyer's Body Shop Profit
Sharing Plan v. Ticor Title Ins. Co. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 1149, 1154, the Court of Appeal found
that “[p]unitive damages are
appropriate if the defendant’s acts are reprehensible, fraudulent or in blatant violation of law or policy.” But the
Flyer's Court also noted that “to establish malice, it is not
sufficient to show only that the defendant’s conduct was negligent, grossly
negligent or even reckless. There must be evidence that defendant acted
with knowledge of the probable dangerous consequences to plaintiff’s interests
and deliberately failed to avoid these consequences.” (Flyer's Body Shop Profit Sharing Plan v. Ticor Title Ins. Co., supra, 185 Cal.App.3d at p. 1155 [internal citation omitted].) 
            Plaintiff’s opposition cites to the definition of
“malice” set forth in Civil Code section 3294. (See
Opp’n at p. 17:10-11.) However, to the extent Plaintiff is asserting that
Defendants’ conduct rises to the level of malice, Plaintiffs do not appear to
point to any evidence showing “conduct
which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (c)(1).) 
            Plaintiff also contends that “[t]here are
issues of fraud (not following the 15% reduction in workforce- if true) and
oppression by moving the victim to appease the perpetrator Tran, which could
also be raised for punitive damages.” (Opp’n at p. 17:26-28.) In support of
this assertion, Plaintiff only cites to the following testimony from the
deposition of Jeff Chow[6]:
“Q[.] Do you know if there were any -- do you know? Or do you know there was --
when you say ‘No,’ you don’t know? Or you do know, and there weren’t? A[.] I do
not know anyone got laid off in any office besides the Los Angeles office.” (Denis
Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. C (Chow Depo.) at p. 131:9-13; Plaintiff’s Additional Material
Fact No. 45.) The Court does see how this demonstrates, “fraud” under Civil Code section 3294, i.e., “intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a
material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the
defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or
otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(3).) The Court also does not see how this
demonstrates “oppression” under Civil Code section 3294.
(See Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2).) 
Based on the
foregoing, the Court finds that Defendants have demonstrated that Plaintiffs’
punitive damages claims are without merit, and that Plaintiff has failed to
raise a triable issue of material fact on this issue. 
 
Conclusion     
For the foregoing reasons, Defendants’ motion for summary
judgment is denied.  
Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication is granted as
to Plaintiff’s claims for punitive damages. Defendants’ motion for summary
adjudication is otherwise denied. 
Defendants are ordered to provide notice of this ruling.¿ 
 
DATED:  April 8, 2024                                  ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


