  Case Number:  20STCV49421    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



NALLELI
  COBO-URIARTE 
                           
         vs.
 
ALLENCO
  ENERGY INC., et al.  
 


 Case No.: 
  20STCV49421 
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  January 25, 2024



 
Defendant’s motion to bifurcate
trial is GRANTED.
 
On
12/28/2020, Plaintiff Nalleli Cobo-Uriarte (Plaintiff) initiated this action.
On 9/3/2021, Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint (FAC) against Allenco
Energy, Inc., Timothy James Parker, Clifford E. Peter Allen, St. James Oil
Corporation, and the Archdiocese of Los Angeles, alleging: (1) negligence; and
(2) strict liability for ultrahazardous activity. 
 
            Now,
Defendants Allenco Energy, Inc., Timothy James Parkers, and Clifford E. Peter
Allen (collectively, Defendants) move to bifurcate trial. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendants
seek the bifurcation of trial into two phases: a first phase focused on general
medical causation of whether exposure to chemicals specifically identified by
Plaintiff in this matter is a cause of cervical cancer, and a second phase of
the remaining issues.
 
            In
support, Defendant argues that bifurcation would promote judicial economy
efficiency, minimize jury confusion, and avoid unfair prejudice. 
 
            After
review, the Court agrees. 
 
“The
court may, when the convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or the
economy and efficiency of handling the litigation would be promoted thereby [.
. .] make an order [. . .] that the trial of any issue or any part thereof
shall precede the trial of any other issue or any part thereof in the case [. .
.]¿ The court, on its own motion, may make
such an order at any time. [. . .]”¿
(CCP § 598, portions omitted.) 
 
“The
court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials
will be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a separate trial of any
cause of action, including a cause of action asserted in a cross-complaint, or
of any separate issue or of any number of causes of action or issues,
preserving the right of trial by jury required by the Constitution or a statute
of this state or of the United States.”¿
(CCP § 1048(b).) 
 
            Here,
the key issue is general medical causation, i.e., whether exposure to the
identified chemicals is a cause of cervical cancer. If a trier of fact were to
determine that exposure to the identified chemicals is not a cause of
cervical cancer, the would be no need for further trial proceedings. 
 
            Given
that the issue of medical causation would likely be dispositive of the vast
majority of Plaintiff’s case, the Court agrees that this issue should be
resolved first, before reaching the questions of whether such exposure was a
substantial factor in the development of Plaintiff’s injuries, and
apportionment and damages.  This serves
interests of judicial economy and efficiency. It also allows the presentation
of issues to be more compartmentalized, thereby decreasing the risk of
unnecessary confusion or complexity.  
 
            Moreover,
Plaintiff would not be prejudiced by bifurcation. In the event that any of the
chemicals Plaintiff contends caused her cancer are determined to be a potential
cause of, Plaintiff will be allowed to proceed with her liability and damages
case against the Defendants just as she would if the Court did not order
bifurcation.
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion to bifurcate trial is granted. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  January   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this tentative
as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 
             