 Case Number:  21STCV31128    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



GRANT
  GRIGORYAN, et al. 
                           
         vs.
 
STEWART
  TITLE OF CALIFORNIA, INC., et al. 
 
                                         
  Defendants. 


 Case No.: 
  21STCV31128
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  January 25, 2024



 
 
Defendant EBR
Escrow’s motion for summary judgment as to Grand Pacific Financing Corp. is
DENIED. EBR’s motion for summary adjudication as to Grand Pacific Financing
Corp. is DENIED.  EBR Escrow’s motion for
summary judgment/adjudication is MOOT as to Plaintiff.

 
On 8/23/2021,
Plaintiffs Grant Grigoryan and Gorbushka, LLC (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed
suit against Stewart Title of California, Inc., Grand Pacific Financing
Corporation c/o Beacon Default Management, Inc., and EBR Escrow (EBR),
alleging: (1) fraud; (2) conversion; and (3) identity theft.
 
On 11/3/2023,
Defendant EBR Escrow filed a motion for summary judgment.
 
On 1/5/2024,
Plaintiff dismissed the entire Complaint as to EBR Escrow. 
 
Accordingly,
Defendant EBR Escrow’s motion for summary judgment is moot as to Plaintiff. 
 
However,
Cross-Complainant Grand Pacific Financing Corporation (GPFC)
has maintained its claim against EBR.
 
Now, EBR
moves for summary judgment, or, in the alternative, summary adjudication, of
GPFC’s Cross-Complaint (XC). 
 
Discussion 
 
            This
action involves allegations that some unidentified nonparty
misappropriated Plaintiff Grigoryan’s identity in order to take out a loan.
EBR Escrow was the escrow company that oversaw the transaction, and GPFC
provided a $2,700,000 bridge loan as part of the transaction. 
 
EBR argues
that no triable issue of fact exists as to GPFC’s claims of negligence,
negligent misrepresentation and unjust enrichment as EBR met its legal and
contractual duties to GPFC. 
 
After review,
the Court finds triable issues of material exist as to each claim.
 
I.                  
Negligent
Misrepresentation 
 
A negligent
misrepresentation occurs when (1) the defendant made a false representation as
to a past or existing material fact; (2) the defendant made the representation
without reasonable ground for believing it to be true; (3) in making the
representation, the defendant intended to induce the plaintiff’s belief; (4)
the plaintiff justifiably relied on the representation; and (5) the plaintiff
suffered damages as a result. (Majd. v. Bank of America, N.A. (2015) 243
Cal. App. 4th 1293, 1307.)
 
Here, GPFC
submitted evidence that EBR negligently misrepresented to GPFC that all of the
closing conditions had been met on or around March 30, 2021, and provided loan
documents that EBR Escrow affirmatively asserted were duly “executed” pursuant
to the lender’s instruction. (GPFC UMF, ¶ 18). Relying upon EBR Escrow’s
representation that the loan documents were duly executed, GPFC did not object
to EBR Escrow consequently closing escrow and wiring GPFC’s funds, totaling
$2,586,023.05 to the Chase Bank account of the entity which purported to be
Gorbushka, LLC.
 
The purpose
of escrow is for the escrow parties to rely upon an independent, third-party
escrow holder to deliver the deposit “upon satisfaction of the conditions
stated in the escrow instructions” (J. Bushnell Nielsen, American Land Title
Association, Title and Claims Guide, § 13.1 Types of Escrow and Their Purposes
(2023).) 
 
GPFC’s
evidence supports a reasonable inference that it justified reliably upon EBR’s
representation that the loan documents were “duly executed and acknowledged” to
mean that: (1) the notary L.E. Rudzinski confirmed the identity of Plaintiff
Grigoryan when he executed a portion of the loan documents; and (2) the notary
Ariana Meiners was a licensed notary who confirmed the identity of the parties
signing the remainder of the loan documents, including the Consent of Spouse or
Guarantor, the Subordination Nondisturbance and Attornment Agreements and the
Substitution of Trustee and Full Reconveyance.
 
GPFC
submitted evidence that: (1) Mr. Rudzinski later testified that he “couldn’t
say with 100 percent certainty” the person purporting to be Grant Grigoryan was
in fact the Plaintiff as he did not remove his mask and partially covered his
face with a handkerchief. (GPFC UMF, ¶ 6); (2) there is no valid notary with
commission no. 189617 (which is the commission number on the remainder of the loan
documents) therefore Ariana Meiners could not have notarized them despite EBR
Escrow’s representation that all loan documents were “duly executed and acknowledged.”
(GPFC UMF, ¶ 9); (3) EBR Escrow admitted it did not verify Ariana Meiners’
notary public status despite being unfamiliar with her as notary and that it
had no written procedures regarding use of outside notary sources and review of
notarized documents. (GPFC UMF, ¶¶ 10-11)
 
            In
light of this, the Court agrees that there is a triable issue of fact whether
EBR Escrow had reasonable grounds to believe that the documents it provided to
GPFC and that it stated were “executed” were actually “duly executed and
acknowledged” as required under the lender’s instructions.
 
II.              
Negligence
 
EBR argues
that GPFC cannot establish this claim because undisputed evidence indicates
that EBR, through its agent Hendley, met its standard of care to all parties in
managing the escrow process for the deed of trust. 
 
After review,
the Court disagrees.
 
EBR argues
that it owed a limited duty to the escrow parties to communicate to its
principals, knowledge acquired in the course of the agency with respect to
material facts that might affect the principals’ decision regarding the pending
transaction. (see Siegel v. Fidelity Nat’l Title Ins. Co. (1996) 46
cal.App.4th 1181,1193-1194.)  EBR argues
that while an escrow agent may have a duty to conduct an investigation when
suspicious circumstances arise, no suspicious circumstances existed here, and
EGR did not have an affirmative duty to investigate the Borrower as “[t]he
nature of the relationship is such as to cause the plaintiff to rely on the
fiduciary, and awareness of facts which would ordinarily call for investigation
does not excite suspicion under these special circumstances.” (3 Witkin, Cal.
Procedure (3d ed. 1985) Actions, § 456, p. 487.)
 
However, GPFC
argues that there were a number of issues which EBR was aware of and which did
amount to suspicious circumstances. In support, GPFC submitted evidence that:
 
-        
Plaintiff changed title companies three
times and when Title was retained, multiple notaries were required to execute
the Loan documents as Plaintiff was unable to execute all of them in the first
instance with Larry Rudzinksi and the person purporting to be the Plaintiff
obscured his identity by wearing a face mask and then further covering his face
with a bandage allegedly due to a dental procedure. (GPFC UMF, ¶¶ 5-6 ); 
 
-        
EBR Escrow was later also alerted to
the fraud when it attempted to transfer the $2,586,023.05 in funds from GPFC to
Plaintiff as part of the Loan transaction. EBR Escrow was advising in writing
by the recipient bank, Chase Bank, that the transaction “does not fit the
normal pattern of our customer” and was thus deemed by Chase Bank as
“suspicious.” (GPFC UMF, ¶ 12)
 
-        
EBR Escrow was advised to “check with
the remitter to confirm whether or not this transaction was initiated correctly
and whether or not there is fraud involved.” (Ibid.)
 
-        
Despite this clear instruction from
Chase Bank, EBR Escrow only notified the person purporting to be Plaintiff of
the message from Chase Bank and worked only with the person purporting to be
Grigoryan to resolve the issue – the party who provided the fraudulent account
(i.e. putting the wolf in charge of the hen house). Unsurprisingly, the person
purporting to be Grigoryan simply provided an account to receive the funds and
the funds from GPFC were wired to a different account at a different banking
institution, Bank of the West. EBR Escrow did not confirm these new wiring
instructions with GPFC. (GPFC UMF, ¶ 17)
 
-        
Though EBR Escrow contends, now
belatedly, that they “called either Trinh, Lin or Kong” from GPFC to inform
them that the funds did not transfer, this wholly misstates EBR Escrow agent,
Michelle Hendley’s testimony. (EBR UMF ¶ 24). Ms. Hendley testified that she
did not remember whether she called anyone at GPFC but that she “might have.”
(GPFC UMF, ¶ 16).
 
-        
Further, neither Trinh, Lin, nor Kong
received any notification regarding the failed wire transfer to Chase Bank nor
the instruction by a person purporting to be Grigoryan to wire the funds to a
separate account in a separate bank, which certainly creates a triable issue of
fact. (GPFC UMF, ¶¶ 13-14, 17).
 
Taken
together, the Court agrees that there is a triable issue of fact as to: (1)
whether EBR owed a fiduciary duty to inform all parties, including GPFC of the
potential fraud detected by Chase Bank when it rejected the $2,586,023.05 wire
transaction and (2) whether EBR performed under that duty as GPFC has no record
of such communication and denies receiving any notification from EBR Escrow
regarding the rejected transaction. 
 
III.           
Unjust Enrichment 
 
EBR argues
that GPFC cannot establish this claim because unjust enrichment is not a
stand-alone cause of action, and it is inequitable to demand recovery from EBR.

 
As to the
first contention, while unjust enrichment is not a stand-alone cause of action
(which GPFC concedes in opposition), California courts have recognized that
“where a breach of fiduciary duty occurs, a variety of equitable remedies are
available including…restitution” under a theory of unjust enrichment. (Meister
v. Mensinger (2014) 230 Cal. App. 4th 381, 396.) A party is required to
make restitution if that party is “receives a benefit at another’s expense”
where “benefit means any type of advantage.” (Am. Master Lease LLC v. Idanta
Partners, Ltd. (2014) 225 Cal. App. 4th 1451, 1481.) 
 
As to the
second contention, EBR Escrow points to GPFC’s dismissal of other defendants
from the cross-complaint as grounds that it is “inequitable” for GPFC to
maintain its unjust enrichment claim against EBR. However, the issue here is
whether or not GPFC is entitled to restitution based on the jury’s finding of
(1) whether EBR Escrow indeed breached its fiduciary duty to GPFC by failing to
deliver “duly executed and acknowledged” loan documents to Title and failing to
notify GPFC when EBR Escrow had clear evidence of fraud; and (2) whether, as
between the two parties – GPFC and EBR Escrow, it is unjust for EBR Escrow to
retain the fee paid to EBR Escrow.
 
            Such
determinations are properly made by a trier of fact.
 
            Based
on the foregoing, EBR’s motion for summary judgment as to GPFC is denied. EBR’s
motion for summary adjudication as to GPFC is denied.  
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  January   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 