  Case Number:  21STCV47554    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



WAVE INVESTMENT, LLC,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
SECURCAPITAL CORP., et al., 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


21STCV47554




Hearing Date:


January 9, 2025




Hearing
  Time:    2:00 p.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:  
 
MOTION BY
  DEFENDANTS STEPHEN J. RUSSELL AND SECURCAPITAL CORP. FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
  AND/OR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION


 



 
Background
Plaintiff Wave
Investment, LLC (“Wave”) filed this action on December 30, 2021 against
Defendants SecurCapital Corp. (“SecurCapital”) and Stephen J. Russell (“Russell”)
(jointly, “Defendants”).
Wave filed the operative Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) on November
15, 2023, alleging causes of action for (1) breach of Non-Circumvention
Agreement, (2) declaratory relief, (3) breach of partnership or joint venture
agreement, (4) breach of fiduciary duty, (5) conversion, 
(6)
fraudulent concealment, (7) fraudulent misrepresentation, (8) negligent
misrepresentation, 
(9)
unjust enrichment, (10) accounting, and (11) constructive trust.
            On
February 20, 2024, SecurCapital filed a Cross-Complaint against Wave and Mark
Boyce, alleging causes of action for (1) fraudulent concealment, (2) fraudulent
misrepresentation, (3) fraudulent inducement, (4) breach of the covenant of
good faith and fair dealing, and (5) declaratory relief.  
Russell now moves for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary
adjudication as to each cause of action asserted against Russell in TAC., i.e.,
Wave’s first, fourth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, and eleventh causes of action
against Russell. In addition, SecurCapital moves for summary adjudication as to
the second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, and eleventh
causes of action asserted against SecurCapital in Wave’s TAC. Wave opposes. 
Request for Judicial
Notice 
The Court grants Defendants’ request for
judicial notice. 
Legal Standard 
“[A] motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.” ((Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “A party may move
for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action,
one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or
more issues of duty, if the party contends that the cause of action has no merit,
that there is no affirmative defense to the cause of action, that there is no
merit to an affirmative defense as to any cause of action, that there is no
merit to a claim for damages, as specified in Section
3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more defendants either owed or did
not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs.” ((Id., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) “A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only
if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim
for damages, or an issue of duty.” (Ibid.)  
The moving party bears the initial burden of production to
make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.
((Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) If
the moving party carries this burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party
to make a prima facie showing that a triable issue of material fact exists. ((Ibid.) Courts
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” ((Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) When a defendant seeks summary
judgment or summary adjudication, he/she must show either (1) that one or more
elements of the cause of action cannot be established; or (2) that there is a
complete defense to that cause of action. (Code Civ.
Proc., section 437c, subd. (p)(2).) 
Discussion 
A.   
Allegations
of the TAC 
In the TAC, Wave alleges that in 2015, Carl
Fairbank (“Fairbank”) founded Breakout Capital (“Breakout”), a small business
lender that provides lending solutions to small businesses, along with loan
collections and servicing. (TAC, ¶ 17.)  
In or around late 2018, Breakout began
facing financial issues and began seeking purchasers or investors to stabilize
its operations. (TAC, ¶ 18.) At Breakout’s request, from January through April
2019, Wave communicated with a number
of private investors, financial institutions,
and companies to gauge interest in a potential investment in Breakout and/or an
acquisition of Breakout. (TAC, ¶ 19.)  
In or around early April 2019, “Boyce” of Wave
met Russell, the CEO of SecurCapital. (TAC, ¶ 20.) Shortly after this meeting, Wave/Boyce and SecurCapital/Russell
entered into a written Non-Circumvention Agreement. (TAC, ¶ 21.) In the
Non-Circumvention Agreement, Defendants agreed “not to undertake any
transaction or a series of transactions of any kind with [Breakout] or to
collect any fees in connection with [Breakout] without the express prior
written agreement of [Wave], which agreement may be withheld in [Wave]’s sole
discretion.” (TAC, ¶ 23.) Over the following
weeks, Wave, SecurCapital, and Breakout negotiated the outlines of an investment
transaction whereby Wave and SecurCapital, as co-investors, would invest approximately $3,000,000 as
operating capital of a newly-formed company (“Newco”), which would purchase the assets of
Breakout. (TAC, ¶ 26.)   
In late April and early May 2019, the
parties’ negotiations culminated in multiple written agreements related to the
contemplated transaction, including: (1) an April 26, 2019 term sheet between Wave,
SecurCapital,
and Breakout (the “Term Sheet”); (2) an April 29, 2019 side letter agreement
between Wave and SecurCapital; and (3) a May 1, 2019 standstill agreement between Wave, SecurCapital, Breakout,
and Breakout Capital Holdings, Inc. (“BHI”). (TAC, ¶ 32.) The Term Sheet
provided, among other things, that BHI would be formed as the contemplated
NewCo. (TAC, ¶ 33.) Pursuant to the terms of the parties’ agreements, on or
about May 1, 2019, Wave wired $100,000 to SecurCapital to fund Wave’s portion of the first tranche of the
partnership’s investment in Breakout through BHI. (TAC, ¶ 36.)  
On or about June 29, 2019, Fairbank
(Breakout’s founder) sent an email to a group of people, including others on
the Breakout team and Russell, without copying Boyce or any other
representative of Wave, stating that he was ready to sign the deal, and that he
was “happy to wait till the 8th” as he had discussed with Russell. (TAC, ¶ 40.)
When Boyce received Fairbank’s email later that day, he emailed Russell
expressing concern that the deal would “close without his consent” on July 8 as
suggested in Fairbank’s email, and further noting that Fairbank had not copied
him on the June 29 email. (TAC, ¶ 40.) Russell responded to Boyce by denying
that he had a “secret deal with Carl to close on the 8th.” (TAC, ¶ 41.)  
Wave alleges that on or about July 8, 2019, Defendants unilaterally
closed a deal to purchase the assets of Breakout through BHI. (TAC, ¶ 43.) Defendants did so without
the involvement or prior consent of Wave, and Wave did not receive notice of
the transaction until after it had closed. (TAC, ¶ 43.) Defendants never returned
the $100,000 previously paid by Wave for the first tranche of its investment in
Breakout and BHI. (TAC, ¶ 44.) Wave is informed and believes that Defendants instead used
that $100,000 to complete its own transaction with Breakout and BHI. (TAC, ¶ 44.)  
B.   
First
Cause of Action for Breach of Contract as to Russell 
Russell
moves for summary adjudication as to Wave’s first cause of action for breach of
Non-Circumvention Agreement. In the first
cause of action, Wave alleges, inter alia, that “[o]n or about
April 8, 2019, Defendants entered into the Non-Circumvention Agreement with
Wave...” (TAC, ¶ 48.) Wave alleges that “Defendants materially breached the
Non-Circumvention Agreement by the following wrongful acts: a. Defendants
engaged in direct, secret contacts with Breakout without disclosing such
contacts to or obtaining approval from Wave; and b. Defendants entered into
transactions to acquire Breakout without Wave’s participation or prior written
approval. c. SecurCapital obtained an equity stake in BHI and Russell obtained
a seat on its Board of Directors, without Wave’s participation or prior written
approval.” (TAC, ¶ 51.) Wave alleges that “Defendants had neither the right nor
the ability to purchase Breakout or obtain a Board seat: the Non-Circumvention
Agreement expressly prohibited it.” (TAC, ¶ 52.) 
Russell first
asserts that the breach of contract cause of action has no merit because
Russell is not a party to the Non-Circumvention Agreement.[1]
Russell attaches as Exhibit 1 to his supporting declaration a copy of the “Non-Circumvention
Agreement” (the “NCA”). (Russell Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. 1.) Russell notes that the
NCA’s signature blocks provide, inter alia, as follows: 
 
“By: [Signature]

Stephen, J.
Russell, CEO 
SecurCapital
Corp 
15233 Ventura
Blvd., Suite 740 
Sherman Oaks, CA
91403 
srussell@securecapital.com.”
(Russell Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. 1, p. 3.) 
Russell argues that “[t]he signature block’s use of the term ‘By’
establishes that Russell executed the NCA in his representative capacity as
SecurCapital’s CEO and not in any individual capacity.” (Mot. at p. 8:23-24
[emphasis omitted].) Russell cites to Carlesimo v. Schwebel (1948) 87 Cal.App.2d
482, 487, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “[i]n the present case, had Schwebel appended the preposition ‘by’ immediately before his
signature, there would be no doubt at all that the contract would have
disclosed, on its face, not only that appellant was dealing with the
corporation, but that Schwebel was signing as an agent
and not as a principal. Where that appears on the face of the contract the corporation is
liable and the agent is not. But, says appellant, the word ‘by’ does not appear in this
signature, and therefore Schwebel must be conclusively presumed to have
signed in his individual capacity, even though the evidence is susceptible
of the interpretation that Schwebel signed as an agent.” (Internal citations omitted.) 
However,
as noted by Wave, the NCA provides that “[t]his Non-Circumvention
Agreement (this ‘Agreement’) is entered into as of this_3rd day of_ March,
2019, and is by and between Stephen J. Russell, CEO SecurCapital
including officers, directors, shareholders, agents, employees, consultants,
attorneys and affiliates (all known as Presentee) and Mark Boyce, Wave
Investments (all known as Presentor).” (Russell Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. 1, p. 1,
emphasis added.) As Wave notes, Russell references the signature block but has “not
identified any case where the preamble specifically names the signatory as a
party to the Agreement…like the NCA.” (Opp’n at p. 13:5-6.) Russell contends
that the language “CEO SecurCapital including officers, directors,
shareholders” shows that Russell “executed the NCA on SecurCapital’s behalf and
not on behalf of himself.” (Mot. at pp. 8:28-9:1, emphasis omitted.) But
Russell does not appear to acknowledge the language that the NCA is “by and
between Stephen J. Russell, CEO SecurCapital… and Mark Boyce, Wave
Investments…” (Russell Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. 1, p. 1, emphasis added.)
 Russell also points to Article II, Section 2 of the NCA, which provides that “[e]ach
of Presentor and Presentee hereby represents that it has full right,
power and authority to execute this Agreement and to perform the actions
contemplated hereby. Upon execution of this Agreement, each of Presentor and
Presentee hereby binds its representatives and heirs and all
subsidiaries and firms affiliated with Presentor or Presentee, as the case may
be, under the terms of this Agreement.” (Russell Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. 1, p. 2,
emphasis added.) Russell contends that “[h]ad the parties intended to bind
Russell individually, ‘it has’ and ‘its’ would have stated ‘he has’ and ‘his,’
further showing that Russell executed the NCA only in a representative
capacity.” (Mot. at p. 9:11-13.) But as noted by Wave, “[t]he NCA defines all
SecurCapital parties as ‘Presentee’ and all Wave parties as ‘Presentor.’”
(Opp’n at p. 13:17-18.) As set forth above, the NCA provides that “[t]his
Non-Circumvention Agreement (this ‘Agreement’) is entered into as of this_3rd
day of_ March, 2019, and is by and between Stephen J. Russell, CEO SecurCapital
including officers, directors, shareholders, agents, employees, consultants,
attorneys and affiliates (all known as Presentee) and Mark Boyce, Wave
Investments (all known as Presentor).” (Russell Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. 1, p. 1,
emphasis added.)
Russell also notes that “Boyce likewise signed [the NCA] as ‘By:’
‘Mark Boyce, Wave Investments.’” (Mot at p. 9:15-16; Russell Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. 1,
p. 3.) Russell contends that “Wave brought the Breach of NCA Cause of Action
alone – Boyce is not a party – demonstrating that the parties understood that
Boyce and Russell each executed the NCA only in their representative
capacities.” (Mot. at p. 9:16-18, emphasis omitted.) The Court is not persuaded
by this argument. Russell does not provide evidence demonstrating that Wave
purportedly understood that Mr. Boyce and Russell “executed the NCA only in
their representative capacities.” 
Based on the foregoing, the Court does not find that Russell has shown
that he is not a party to the NCA.  
Next,
Russell argues that he did not breach the NCA. First, Russell cites to Shoemaker v.
Myers (1990) 52 Cal.3d 1, 24, where the California Supreme Court noted that “corporate agents and employees acting for and on behalf
of a corporation cannot be held liable for inducing a breach of the corporation’s
contract.” Wave counters that “Shoemaker is no help to Russell
because he is a party to the NCA…” (Opp’n at p. 14:19-20.) Indeed, as set forth
above, the Court does not find that Russell has shown that he is not a party to
the NCA. 
Russell also contends that he did not breach the NCA because
“Russell’s discussions with Breakout were not ‘secret,’” because “Russell did
not acquire Breakout or Breakout’s assets; BCH did,” and because “the NCA did
not prohibit Russell from obtaining a seat on BCH’s board.” (Mot. at p. 10:2-4,
emphasis omitted.) 
As to the assertion that “Russell’s discussions with Breakout were not
secret,” Russell points to paragraph 26 of his declaration, which provides that
“[o]n or around June 26, 2019, SecurCapital’s outside counsel, who was involved
in the negotiation of the Breakout acquisition, sent an email to Breakout’s
counsel, copying me and Boyce, stating that ‘[a]attached you’ll find the
following draft Asset Purchase and Equity Financing documents’ and that ‘[w]e
consider all of the attached to be really close to their final forms.’”
(Russell Decl., ¶ 26.) In addition, Russell indicates that June 29, 2019, Mr. Boyce sent Russell an email
indicating, inter alia, “So I won’t be overly concerned about this, when
Carl says he discussed waiting until the 8th as he discussed with you, and also
he didn’t copy me on this. Should there be any concern that this would close
without my consent on Monday the 8th?” (Russell Decl., ¶ 27, Ex. 10.)[2] On the same day, Russell
sent an email to Mr. Boyce stating, inter alia, “[a]re you serious, this is getting
idiotic, no I don’t have a secret deal with Carl to close on the 8th…I’ve told
EVERYONE clearly our target is to close the WEEK of the 8th of July (not the
8th)…” (Ibid.) 
Wave counters that “Russell says these discussions ‘were not
‘secret’…but Wave did not know about them.” (Opp’n at p. 15:10-11.) Wave cites to, inter alia, the supporting declaration of
Mark Boyce, the founder and sole member of Wave. (Boyce Decl., ¶ 1.) Mr.
Boyce states that “Wave did not give written consent for SecurCapital to close
the Breakout deal. I was not aware of the agreement to close the Breakout deal
on July 11, 2019 until Russell e-mailed me after the closing had occurred.
Needless to say, Wave did not participate in the deal…Wave never gave consent
for Russell to contact attorneys, officers, and/or employees of Breakout in
June/July 2019 in connection with BCH’s acquisition of Breakout without Wave,
of which I was unaware.” (Boyce Decl., ¶¶ 24-25.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Wave has raised a triable
issue of material fact as to whether “Russell’s discussions with Breakout
were…secret.” (Mot. at p. 10:2.) Accordingly, the Court need not address the
merits of Russell’s remaining arguments that “Russell did not acquire Breakout
or Breakout’s assets; BCH did,” and “the NCA did not prohibit Russell from
obtaining a seat on BCH’s board.” (Mot. at p. 10:3-4, emphasis omitted.) The
Court notes that “[a] motion for summary
adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of
action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”
(Code Civ. Proc., section
437c, subd. (f)(1).) In the breach of contract cause of action, Wave
alleges that Defendants materially breached the Non-Circumvention
Agreement” by certain “wrongful acts,” including, inter alia, that
“Defendants engaged in direct, secret contacts with Breakout without disclosing
such contacts to or obtaining approval from Wave…” (TAC, ¶ 51(a).) As
discussed, the Court finds that Wave has raised a triable issue of material
fact as to whether Russell’s discussions with Breakout were secret. 
In light of the foregoing, the Court
denies Russell’s motion for summary adjudication as to the first cause of
action. 
C.   
Second
and Third Causes of Action 
SecurCapital moves for summary adjudication as to Wave’s second cause
of action for declaratory relief and third cause of action for breach of
partnership or joint venture agreement. 
In the second cause of action for declaratory relief, Wave alleges, inter
alia, that “[a]n actual controversy has arisen and now exists between Wave
and SecurCapital. Pursuant to the parties’ statements, written agreements, and
actions between April 2019 and July 2019, Wave and SecurCapital intended to and
did form a partnership, or in the alternative, enter into a joint venture, for
the purpose of engaging in an investment or acquisition transaction with
Breakout, as well as related transactions in the logistics industry.
SecurCapital subsequently has—through its statements and actions—denied the
existence of a partnership or a joint venture with Wave, including by
unilaterally treating Wave’s $100,000 investment in the partnership or joint
venture business as an investment in SecurCapital itself.” (TAC, ¶ 57.) Wave
alleges that “[a] judicial declaration as to the existence of a partnership, or
in the alternative, a joint venture between Wave and SecurCapital is necessary
and appropriate at this time, as SecurCapital continues to operate by itself
what was supposed to be the business of the partnership or joint venture
between Wave and SecurCapital, and recently has presented Wave with documents
purporting to memorialize an investment by Wave in SecurCapital, rather than a
co-investment by Wave and SecurCapital as a partnership or joint venture in
Breakout and BHI.” (TAC, ¶ 58.) 
In the third cause of action for breach of partnership or joint
venture agreement, Wave alleges, inter alia, that “[p]ursuant to the
parties’ statements, written agreements, and actions between April 2019 and
July 2019, Wave and SecurCapital intended to and did form a partnership or
joint venture for the purpose of engaging in an investment or acquisition transaction
with Breakout and BHI, as well as related transactions in the logistics
industry.” (TAC, ¶ 61.) Wave alleges that “SecurCapital breached the partnership
or joint venture agreement by repudiating the existence of the partnership or
joint venture, denying Wave’s interest in the partnership, and using the money
Wave contributed for its own acquisition of the assets of Breakout.” (TAC, ¶
63.) 
SecurCapital argues that “Wave’s second and third causes of action
have no merit because the parties did not enter into a ‘partnership or joint
venture’ under the undisputed facts.” (Mot. at p. 10:6-7, emphasis omitted.) SecurCapital
cites to Bustamante v. Intuit, Inc. (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th
199, 215, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he failure to reach a meeting of the minds on all
material points prevents the formation of a contract even though the parties have orally agreed upon some of the terms,
or have taken some action related to the contract.” (Internal
emphasis omitted.) SecurCapital asserts that here, “the parties never
had any ‘meeting of the minds’ as to that alleged agreement’s essential terms.”
(Mot. at p. 11:9-10.)
SecurCapital first asserts that “[t]he
NCA…does not provide the essential terms of any ‘partnership or joint
venture.’” (Mot. at p. 11:11-12, emphasis omitted.) SecurCapital
cites to the following testimony from Mr. Boyce’s deposition: “Q. Did
you consider the non-circumvention agreement to be a partnership agreement? MR.
MILLER: Object. Legal conclusion. Go ahead. THE WITNESS: I don’t know how to --
I don’t know how to answer that question. I considered it to be a
non-circumvention agreement just like what it says. I mean, going beyond what
the agreement is, I don’t see anything in the document on that. So whatever the
agreement says is what I considered it to be.” (Lode
Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. 14 (Boyce Depo.) at p. 74:12-22.) 
SecurCapital also argues that “the ‘Side
Lettter’ is non-binding and expressly requires a further ‘binding document’.”
(Mot. at p. 11:15, emphasis omitted.) In the TAC, Wave alleges that “[i]n
late April and early May 2019, the parties’ negotiations culminated in multiple
written agreements related to the contemplated transaction, including…an April
29, 2019 side letter agreement between Wave and SecurCapital…” (TAC, ¶ 32.)
Exhibit 3 to Russell’s declaration is an April 29, 2019 letter titled “Re: Side
Letter related to Wave Investments & SecurCapital Transaction with Breakout
Capital.” (Russell Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. 3.) SecurCapital
notes that this April 29, 2019 letter provides, inter alia, that
“[t]he parties expect to incorporate these terms into a final binding document
in connection with the Acquisition, but unless and until they do so, these
terms are nonbinding.” (Russell Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. 3.) Russell states that “SecurCapital and Wave never entered into any ‘final
binding document’ that incorporated the terms of the Side Letter.” (Russell
Decl., ¶ 12.) SecurCapital asserts that
accordingly, “the Side Letter also cannot provide the essential terms.”
(Mot. at p. 11:27.) 
In addition, SecurCapital argues that “the
parties never reached any agreement as to specific contributions for the
alleged ‘partnership or joint venture.’” (Mot. at p. 12:8-9.) In his supporting declaration, Russell asserts
that “SecurCapital and Wave never reached or entered into any agreement –
written, oral, or otherwise – on the terms of any alleged ‘partnership or joint
venture.’ Among other things, SecurCapital and Wave never reached any agreement
on the exact contributions that supposedly would be made by SecurCapital and
Wave (e.g., 51/49 or 80/20) to the alleged ‘partnership or joint venture;’
whether the Finder’s Fee referenced in the Side Letter would be included in the
alleged ‘partnership or joint venture;’[3] how
the Finder’s Fee would be paid; whether SecurCapital was obligated to bring or
present to the alleged ‘partnership or joint venture’ all opportunities
SecurCapital had after 2019; the duration of the alleged ‘partnership or joint
venture;’ whether SecurCapital could terminate the alleged ‘partnership or
joint venture;’ and, if so, how.” (Russell Decl., ¶ 40.) 
            In the opposition, Wave asserts that
“[t]here are triable issues as to whether the essential element of a
partnership—an ‘intent to carry on a business for profit’—exists.” (Opp’n at p.
16:18-19.) Wave cites to Greene v. Brooks (1965) 235 Cal.App.2d
161, 165-166, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[a] partnership is an
association of two or more persons to carry on a business for profit as
coowners. The sharing of profits of a business is prima facie evidence that a
partnership exists except where such profits are received as debts, wages or
rent, interest on a loan or consideration for the sale of good will of a
business or other property. The ultimate test of the existence of a partnership
is the intention of the parties to carry on a definite business as coowners.
Such intention may be determined from the terms of the parties’ agreement or
from the surrounding circumstances. A partnership need not be evidenced by
writing. It is immaterial that the parties do not designate the relationship as
a partnership or realize that they are partners, for the intent may be implied
from their acts.” (Internal citations
omitted.)[4]

            In his supporting
declaration, Mr. Boyce states that “Russell and I decided to form a
partnership through our respective entities, SecurCapital and Wave, in order to
work together to pursue Breakout and other acquisition opportunities that could
strengthen our business,” and that “[o]nce Russell confirmed that he and
SecurCapital were interested, I put together a Non-Circumvention Agreement
(‘NCA’).” (Boyce Decl., ¶¶ 9-10.) 
            Mr. Boyce further states that “[o]n
April 16, 2019, Wave and Defendants attended an introductory meeting with
Breakout, during which we learned that Breakout needed money by May 1, 2019 or
it would be unable to fund payroll and operating expenses. To save our deal, we
doubled down and entered into an April 29, 2019 Side Letter…The Side Letter set
forth the intentions of our partnership as well as specifics for how the
parties would invest in BCH as partners. It confirmed that SecurCapital and
Wave (or an affiliated entity or persons) would form Newco, which both
SecurCapital and Wave would contribute money to. It memorialized the expected
allocation of assets between SecurCapital and Wave which was ultimately agreed
would be 51/49. It also explains that they would be joint investors and that
they would acquire the assets of Breakout in tranches of $500,000 each, to be
split between Wave and SecurCapital.” (Boyce Decl., ¶¶ 15-16.) Mr. Boyce
states, “[f]or the first ‘tranche,’ the Side Letter provides that SecurCapital
would contribute $400,000 in cash and Wave would contribute $100,000 in cash.
Essentially, this tranche represented a short-term loan to keep Breakout afloat
pending the acquisition, to be repaid to Wave and SecurCapital in the form of
equity in BCH at the time of closing. I wired the $100,000 to SecurCapital on
behalf of Wave, which I always intended its portion of this tranche to be used
for the partnership’s purchase of Breakout…Russell confirmed to me that
SecurCapital had sent the parties’ combined $500,000 to Breakout.” (Boyce
Decl., ¶¶ 17, 18.)
            In addition, Mr. Boyce states that
“[i]n late April and May 2019, we drafted and executed a number of documents
with the contemplated terms for the transaction in addition to the Side Letter,
including various term sheets and a Standstill Agreement. Russell signed every
document on behalf of SecurCapital.” (Boyce Decl., ¶ 19.) Mr. Boyce states that
“[w]e shared business plans and addressed every single element that contributes
to the health of a business. We shared an attorney for purposes of due diligence
and negotiations with Breakout.” (Boyce Decl., ¶ 14.) 
            In addition, Wave cites to the
following testimony from Russell’s deposition: “Q. When you signed the
non-circumvention agreement with Mr. Boyce and Wave, did you think that
Breakout Finance, the newco opportunity, was outside the scope of the
non-circumvention agreement? A. No. I think that the Breakout, the
non-circumvent itself was part of that agreement with Boyce that we signed that
day. What I’m saying is that the introduction of Breakout Capital by Mark was
secondary and third stage from when we first started talking to Breakout
Capital. So the non-circumvent -- if he’s the middleman and he’s put this in
the bundle, we’re going to go as partners and close this deal. That’s
the non-circumvent I was signing. So Breakout was part of that.” (Brody Decl.,
¶ 5, Ex. O (Russell Depo.) at p. 205:1-14, emphasis added.) 
            Based on the foregoing, the Court
finds that Wave has raised a triable issue of material fact as to whether Wave
and SecurCapital formed a “partnership” or “joint venture.” As discussed, “[t]he ultimate test of the existence of a partnership is
the intention of the parties to carry on a definite business as coowners. Such
intention may be determined from the terms of the parties’ agreement or from
the surrounding circumstances…A partnership need
not be evidenced by writing…” (Greene v. Brooks, supra, 235 Cal.App.2d at pp. 165-166.) 
            SecurCapital also argues in the
motion that “there is no rational basis for the assessment of any damages.”
(Mot. at p. 13:10.) SecurCapital notes the Bustamante Court found that “[t]o
be enforceable, a promise must be definite enough that a court can
determine the scope of the duty[,] and the limits of performance must be
sufficiently defined to provide a rational basis for the assessment of
damages.” (Bustamante v. Intuit, Inc., supra, 141
Cal.App.4th at page 209 (internal quotations and citation omitted).) 
            SecurCapital cites to a copy of
excerpts from Wave’s First Amended Responses to Defendants’ Form
Interrogatories (Set One),   dated August
8, 2023. (Lode Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. 16.) SecurCapital appears to note that Wave’s
amended response to Form Interrogatory No. 9.1 provides, inter alia,
that “the categories of damages that Responding Party seeks are,” inter alia,
“Responding Party’s losses that otherwise resulted from Propounding Party’s
breach of the Non-Circumvention Agreement, including the lost opportunity to
participate in further investments and acquisitions, including but not limited
to the acquisitions of Business Intelligence Group, LLC (d/b/a B.I.G.
Logistics), Xcell Logistics Services Inc. (d/b/a Xcell Logistics), and Xcell
Logistics de Mexico, S.C. (d/b/a Xcell Logistics).” (Lode Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. 16,
p. 8.) SecurCapital asserts that “Boyce was unable to testify whether the
alleged partnership even existed at the time of these transactions.” (Mot. at
p. 13:18-19, emphasis omitted.) But SecurCapital does not appear to provide
evidence of when the asserted “B.I.G. Logistics” and “Xcell Logistics”
transactions took place. 
            In addition, Wave asserts that “[a]s
an initial matter, Defendants do not argue that Wave’s damages from being cut
out of the Breakout deal are uncertain, which requires summary judgment to be
denied.” (Opp’n at p. 20:5-6.) In the third cause of action for breach of
partnership or joint venture agreement, Wave alleges, inter alia, that
“[a]s a direct and proximate result of SecurCapital’s breaches of the
partnership or joint venture agreement, Wave has suffered damages in the sum of
$100,000 based upon its contribution to the partnership business or joint
venture, plus the significant lost profits that Wave would have realized had
SecurCapital not breached the partnership or joint venture agreement.” (TAC, ¶
64.)[5]
SecurCapital’s arguments concerning the purported lack of a “rational basis for
the assessment of any damages” (Mot at p. 13:10) do not appear to address
Wave’s allegation that it suffered damages in the sum of “$100,000 based upon
its contribution to the partnership business or joint venture…” (TAC, ¶ 64.) As
discussed, “[a] motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it
completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for
damages, or an issue of duty.” (Id., section 437c, subd. (f)(1).)
            In light of the foregoing, the Court
denies SecurCapital’s motion for summary adjudication as to the second and
third causes of action. 
D.   
Fourth
Cause of Action 
Russell
and SecurCapital move for summary adjudication as to Wave’s fourth cause
of action for breach of fiduciary duty. 
In the fourth cause of action, Wave alleges, inter alia, that
“[a]s a result of the partnership or joint venture between Wave and
SecurCapital, as well as SecurCapital’s leading role in negotiating the
proposed transaction with Breakout and handling the funds to be invested by the
partnership or joint venture in Breakout and BHI, SecurCapital owed fiduciary
duties of care, loyalty, and good faith to Wave.” (TAC, ¶ 67.) Wave further
alleges that “Russell, acting individually and as the principal of SecurCapital,
caused Wave to repose trust and confidence in SecurCapital in connection with
the partnership or joint venture’s investment in Breakout and BHI. Defendants
voluntarily accepted a fiduciary role with respect to Wave, including the duty
to act with the utmost good faith, loyalty, and to avoid prioritizing their own
interests over the interests of the partnership or joint venture and Wave.”
(TAC, ¶ 68.) 
Wave alleges that “Defendants breached their fiduciary duties to Wave
by: (a) unilaterally closing the transaction with Breakout and BHI without
Wave’s consent or knowledge; (b) keeping Wave in the dark as to the true state
of the negotiations and the other parties’ plans for closing; (c) blocking Wave
out of the partnership or joint venture’s transaction with Breakout and BHI;
and (d) failing to treat Wave as a partner and co-investor alongside
SecurCapital in BHI, despite Wave having contributed $100,000 in partial
performance of the contemplated investments by the partnership or joint venture
in Breakout and BHI.” (TAC, ¶ 69.) 
In the motion, Defendants assert that “[t]he TAC does not allege that
Russell himself was one of the ‘partners’ or ‘joint venturers.’…Wave brings the
Second and Third Causes of Action against only SecurCapital. Thus, the alleged
‘partnership or joint venture’ cannot form the basis of Russell’s alleged
‘fiduciary duty.’” (Mot. at p. 15:7-10, emphasis omitted.) 
In the opposition, Wave notes that “‘[f]iduciary’
and ‘confidential’ relationships are relationships existing between parties to
a transaction wherein one party is duty bound to act with the utmost good faith
for the benefit of the other. Such a relationship ordinarily arises when one party reposes a
confidence in the integrity of the other, and the other voluntarily accepts
that confidence.” (Brown v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 938, 959-960.)
Wave asserts that “the evidence shows that Russell, acting
individually and as the principal of SecurCapital, caused Wave to repose trust
and confidence in SecurCapital in connection with the partnership or joint
venture’s investment in Breakout and Newco. Russell voluntarily accepted Wave’s
confidence—the Breakout opportunity and special knowledge about the company—
pursuant to the NCA…He was the person who signed the NCA, term sheets, the Side
Letter, and the Standstill Agreement.” (Opp’n at p. 21:6-11.) In his supporting
declaration, Mr. Boyce states that “[c]onsistent with the NCA, we immediately
began to negotiate what our partnership would look like. We agreed to set up a
new company to hold Breakout and any other companies Russell and I acquired. It
is the entity now called Breakout Capital Holdings, Inc. (‘BCH’), which we also
referred to as ‘Newco.’…With respect to Breakout, we agreed that BCH would
acquire the assets in an attractive manner, comprising Breakout’s lending
business…” (Boyce Decl., ¶¶ 13-14.) Mr. Boyce also states that “[i]n
late April and May 2019, we drafted and executed a number of documents with the
contemplated terms for the transaction in addition to the Side Letter,
including various term sheets and a Standstill Agreement. Russell signed every
document on behalf of SecurCapital.” (Boyce Decl., ¶ 19.) The Court finds that
Wave has raised a triable issue of material fact as to whether Russell owed
fiduciary duties to Wave.
Defendants also assert that “SecurCapital and Wave never entered into
the alleged ‘partnership or joint venture’ under the undisputed facts…This
non-existent agreement therefore cannot establish a fiduciary relationship
between SecurCapital and Wave.” (Mot. at p. 15:12-15, emphasis omitted.) But as
set forth above, the Court finds that Wave has raised a triable issue of
material fact as to whether Wave and SecurCapital formed a “partnership” or
“joint venture.” In Hasso v. Hapke
(2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 107, 140, cited by
Wave, the Court of Appeal noted that “[f]iduciary duties are
imposed by law in certain technical, legal relationships such as those between
partners or joint venturers…trustees and beneficiaries, principals and agents,
and attorneys and clients…” Thus, the Court finds that Wave has also
raised a triable issue of material fact as to whether SecurCapital owed
fiduciary duties to Wave. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court denies Defendants’ motion for
summary adjudication as to the fourth cause of action. 
E.    
Fifth
Cause of Action 
SecurCapital moves for summary adjudication as to Wave’s fifth cause
of action for conversion. In the fifth cause of action, Wave alleges, inter
alia, that “[o]n or about May 1, 2019, Wave contributed $100,000 to the
partnership or joint venture for the purpose of the partnership or joint
venture’s investment or acquisition transaction with Breakout. As a result, the
$100,000 became an asset of the partnership or joint venture at the time of
transfer…On or about July 8, 2019, SecurCapital unilaterally closed a
transaction with Breakout instead of closing that transaction on behalf of the
partnership or joint venture, thereby converting Wave’s $100,000 partnership or
joint venture contribution to SecurCapital’s own private use.” (TAC, ¶¶ 74-75.)
SecurCapital first asserts that “[b]ecause the partnership or joint
venture claim fails, the conversion claim necessarily fails as well, as there
was no ‘partnership or community’ property to ‘convert.’” (Mot. at p. 16:3-4.)
But as discussed, the Court finds that Wave has raised a triable issue of
material fact as to whether Wave and SecurCapital formed a “partnership” or
“joint venture.” 
SecurCapital also argues that the conversion cause of action fails
because “SecurCapital did not take any action to exercise dominion over [the]
funds.” (Mot. at p. 16:5-6, emphasis omitted.) “The
elements of a claim for conversion are (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or
right to possession of the property, (2) the defendant’s wrongful act or
disposition of the property that interferes with the plaintiff’s possession,
and (3) damages. Conversion requires the defendant to take some affirmative
action to exercise dominion over or deprive a plaintiff of his or her property.”
(Archer v. Coinbase,
Inc. (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 266,
276 (internal citations omitted).) 
In his supporting declaration, Russell indicates that “[o]n or around
May 2, 2019, Boyce wired $100,000 to SecurCapital’s account. Prior to the
transfer, on or around April 30, 2019, Boyce copied me on an email in which he represented
that he was ‘fine with the $100kto [sic] SC.’” (Russell Decl., ¶ 17.) Russell
also states that “[o]n July 10, 2019, I spoke with Boyce again by phone. I told
Boyce that the deal was moving forward, as planned, and Boyce confirmed that he
and Wave were not going to participate. I told Boyce that SecurCapital would
wire back to the Wave [sic] the $100,000 that Boyce transferred to SecurCapital
on or around May 2, 2019…Following that conversation, I emailed Boyce on July
10, 2019 that, ‘per our conversation today, SecurCapital Corp is wiring you the
$100,000 from our AP ledger today.’ Boyce replied, ‘[t]o be clear, I have not
asked for any money to be wired back.’” (Russell Decl., ¶¶ 30-31.) Russell
states that “[o]n or around August 2, 2020, SecurCapital treated the $100,000
that Wave and/or Boyce wired to SecurCapital on or around May 2, 2019 as a
SecurCapital note with interest as of May 2, 2019 and issued Boyce a
SecurCapital stock certificate.” (Russell Decl., ¶ 37.) SecurCapital asserts
that accordingly, “the undisputed facts show that SecurCapital did not take any
affirmative action to exercise dominion over, or deprive Wave of, the
$100,000…” (Mot. at p. 16:27-28, emphasis omitted.) 
In the opposition, Wave asserts that “whether Defendants converted
Wave’s money is a disputed fact.” (Opp’n at p. 22:15.) In his supporting
declaration, Mr. Boyce states that “[f]or the first ‘tranche,’ the Side Letter
provides that SecurCapital would contribute $400,000 in cash and Wave would
contribute $100,000 in cash. Essentially, this tranche represented a short-term
loan to keep Breakout afloat pending the acquisition, to be repaid to Wave and
SecurCapital in the form of equity in BCH at the time of closing. I wired the
$100,000 to SecurCapital on behalf of Wave, which I always intended its portion
of this tranche to be used for the partnership’s purchase of Breakout.” (Boyce
Decl., ¶ 17.) Mr. Boyce states that “SecurCapital never gave me my portion of
the BCH stock representing my $100,000 investment, nor did SecurCapital ever
pay me my portion of interest on the loan to Breakout or reimburse me for my
expenses incurred in obtaining a suitable acquirer for Breakout…I did not
consent for SecurCapital to treat Wave’s $100,000 investment in Breakout as an
investment in SecurCapital, or to issue Wave securities in SecurCapital.”
(Boyce Decl., ¶¶ 26-27.)[6]
The Court finds that this evidence raises a triable issue of material fact as
to whether Defendants took “some affirmative action to exercise dominion over
or deprive [Wave] of [its] property.” (Archer v. Coinbase,
Inc., supra, 53
Cal.App.5th at p. 276.) 
SecurCapital also asserts that “SecurCapital…did not take [the] money or
engage in any wrongful act as to it. Where, as here, property was lawfully
conveyed to a defendant, there is no conversion. (Mot. at p. 16:19-20, emphasis
omitted.) SecurCapital cites to Gardena Valley
Airport, Inc. v. All American Sports Enterprises, Inc. (1964) 230 Cal.App.2d 478, 482, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “[w]here the original possession is
lawfully obtained, or there is an acknowledgment of the mortgagor’s interest,
the dominion exercised by the mortgagee is not unlawful and thus not a
conversion.” Wave counters that “SecurCapital can be liable for conversion for
using Wave’s funds in a manner not expressly authorized by Wave.” (Opp’n at pp.
23:26-24:1.) In SP Inv. Fund I LLC v. Cattell
(2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 898, 907, cited by Wave, the Court of Appeal
noted that “[i]n this case, SP alleges that Cattell received monetary
distributions from the Partnership that, under the Agreement, he held in trust
for SP’s benefit and he has refused to turn those funds over to SP. Its
conversion claim, therefore, is not a generalized claim for money but rather a
claim for a specific identifiable sum of money received by Cattell for SP’s
benefit. Thus, SP adequately stated a cause of action for conversion.”
Similarly here, Wave alleges that it “contributed $100,000 to the partnership
or joint venture for the purpose of the partnership or joint venture’s
investment or acquisition transaction with Breakout,” and that “SecurCapital
unilaterally closed a transaction with Breakout instead of closing that
transaction on behalf of the partnership or joint venture, thereby converting
Wave’s $100,000 partnership or joint venture contribution to SecurCapital’s own
private use.” (TAC, ¶¶ 74-75.) 
Based
on the foregoing, the Court denies SecurCapital’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the fifth cause of action. 
F.    
Sixth,
Seventh, and Eighth Causes of Action 
Russell
and SecurCapital move for summary adjudication as to Wave’s sixth cause
of action for fraudulent concealment, seventh cause of action for fraudulent
misrepresentation, and eighth cause of action for negligent misrepresentation. 
In the sixth cause of action for fraudulent concealment, Wave alleges,
inter alia, that “Defendants fraudulently and despicably concealed
material information regarding its secret negotiations with Breakout to oust
Wave from the very business opportunity that Wave introduced them to.” (TAC, ¶
79.) Wave alleges that “Defendants concealed the fact that, contrary to their
assurance to Wave that they had no ‘secret deal with Carl to close on the 8th,’
they were doing exactly that: Defendants negotiated a deal with Breakout to
close on July 8, 2019 that did not involve Wave. The transaction between
Defendants and Breakout did in fact close on July 8, 2019.” (TAC, ¶ 80.)
In the seventh cause of action for fraudulent misrepresentation, Wave
alleges, inter alia, that “[n]ot only did Defendants fraudulently and
maliciously conceal their contacts and negotiations with Breakout to the
exclusion of Wave, they also blatantly lied to Wave about not having a deal to
close on July 8th when confronted about it specifically.” (TAC, ¶ 86.) In the
eighth cause of action for negligent misrepresentation, Wave alleges, inter
alia, that “when confronted by Wave on June 29, 2019, Defendants misrepresented
to Wave that they did not have a secret deal with Breakout to close on July 8,
2019. Defendants knew, or should have known, their assurance to Wave was false.
Defendants made this misrepresentation and omission of material facts to induce
Wave’s reliance.” (TAC, ¶ 99.) 
Defendants assert that the sixth through eighth causes of action have
no merit because “Defendants did not conceal or misrepresent material facts.”
(Mot. at p. 17:2-3.) “The elements of fraud, which give rise to the tort action
for deceit, are (a) misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or
nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or scienter); (c) intent to defraud,
i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638 (internal quotations omitted).) “The
tort of negligent misrepresentation, a species of the tort of deceit, does not
require intent to defraud but only the assertion, as a fact, of that which is
not true, by one who has no reasonable ground for believing it to be true.” (Conroy v. Regents of University of
California (2009) 45 Cal.4th 1244,
1255 (internal citation omitted).) 
As discussed above, Defendants indicate that on June 29, 2019, Mr. Boyce sent
Russell an email indicating, inter alia, “So I won’t be overly concerned
about this, when Carl says he discussed waiting until the 8th as
he discussed with you, and also he didn’t copy me on this. Should there be any
concern that this would close without my consent on Monday the 8th?” (Russell Decl., ¶
27, Ex. 10.) On the same day, Russell sent an email to Mr. Boyce stating, inter
alia,
“[a]re you serious, this is getting idiotic, no I don’t have a secret
deal with Carl to close on the 8th…I’ve told EVERYONE clearly our target is to
close the WEEK of the 8th of July (not the 8th)…” (Ibid.)
Defendants
assert that “[t]he undisputed evidence shows that the transaction did,
in fact, close on July 11, 2019 – i.e., the week of the 8th, not ‘Monday the
8th.’…As there thus was no ‘concealment’ or ‘false representation,’ Wave cannot
establish the first element of any of its three claims for fraud and deceit.”
(Mot. at p. 18:7-10, emphasis omitted.) In his declaration, Russell states that
“[t]he Breakout acquisition at issue in this lawsuit closed on July 11, 2019,
which resulted in BCH acquiring certain of Breakout’s assets.” (Russell Decl.,
¶ 32.) 
But as noted by Wave, the sixth through eighth causes of action are
not based on whether the transaction closed on July 11, 2019, rather than July
8, 2019. As set forth above, the alleged misrepresentation is that Defendants
lied to Wave about not having a deal to close with Breakout when confronted
about it. (TAC, ¶¶ 86, 99.) As discussed, Wave alleges that “Defendants
concealed the fact that, contrary to their assurance to Wave that they had no
‘secret deal with Carl to close on the 8th,’ they were doing exactly that…”
(TAC, ¶ 80.) 
Defendants also assert that “Wave’s alleged reliance
on Russell’s statement about the closing of the Breakout transaction was not
justifiable in any event.” (Mot. at p. 18:15-16.) In the fraudulent concealment
cause of action, Wave alleges that “Wave was completely unaware of Defendants’
true intentions and plan. If Wave had known, it would have exercised its right
and discretion under the Non-Circumvention Agreement to block Defendants’ deal
with Breakout and would not have allowed the deal to close. Wave would not have
relied on Defendants’ representation about not having a secret deal with
Breakout and would have informed Breakout of its rights under the
Non-Circumvention Agreement to block the deal.” (TAC, ¶ 81.) 
In the fraudulent misrepresentation cause of action,
Wave alleges that “Wave changed its 
position and relied on Defendants’ false representation
described herein. Had Wave known Defendants’ true intent, it would have
exercised its right and discretion under the Non-Circumvention Agreement to
block Defendants’ deal with Breakout and would not have allowed the deal to
close. Wave would not have relied on Defendants’ representation about not
having a secret deal with Breakout and would have informed Breakout of its
rights under the Non-Circumvention Agreement to block the deal.” (TAC, ¶ 89.) 
In
the negligent misrepresentation cause of action, Wave alleges that “Wave
justifiably relied on Defendants’ misrepresentation to their detriment.
Defendants’ material misrepresentation caused Wave to, among other things: (1)
believe that Defendants were still acting as its partner and for their joint
interest; (2) believe that Defendants have not gone around behind Wave’s back
to engage in secret negotiations with Breakout directly, to the exclusion of
Wave; (3) believe that there was no need to inform Breakout about the
Non-Circumvention Agreement and Wave’s right and discretion to halt any
transaction between Defendants and Breakout; and (4) not exercise its right and
discretion pursuant to the Non-Circumvention to preclude Defendants’
transaction with Breakout…Had Defendants not misrepresented to Wave that they
had no secret deal with Breakout, Wave would have exercised its right and
discretion under the Non-Circumvention Agreement to block the deal and would
not have allowed the deal to close.” (TAC, ¶¶ 100-101.)
Defendants assert that “Russell’s email expressly stated that ‘I’ve
told EVERYONE clearly our target is to close the WEEK of the 8th of July (not
the 8th).’…Because the email clearly stated that the target was to close the
transaction ‘the WEEK of the 8th,’ which is in fact what happened…Wave could
not have justifiably relied on any imagined representation that the transaction
would not close that week.” (Mot. at p. 18:18-22, emphasis omitted.) 
In the opposition, Wave argues that whether its reliance was
justifiable is a disputed fact. 
In
his supporting declaration, Mr. Boyce states that “[i]f I had known there was a
deal to close without Wave’s consent, I would have reminded Breakout of Wave’s
rights under the NCA to block the deal…However, the lawyers for Breakout were
leading the preparation of the draft deal documents, and because Russell told
me there was no ‘secret deal,’ and assured me he would not close without Wave’s
consent and participation, I did nothing.” (Boyce Decl., ¶ 22.) Mr. Boyce
states that “Wave did not give written consent for SecurCapital to close the
Breakout deal. I was not aware of the agreement to close the Breakout deal on
July 11, 2019 until Russell e-mailed me after the closing had occurred.
Needless to say, Wave did not participate in the deal.” (Boyce Decl., ¶ 24.) The
Court finds that Wave has raised a triable issue of material fact as to Wave’s
“justifiable reliance” on Russell’s June 29, 2019 statements concerning the subject
deal. 
Based on the
foregoing, the Court denies Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication as to
the sixth, seventh, and eighth causes of action. 
G.   
Ninth
Cause of Action 
Russell
and SecurCapital move for summary adjudication as to Wave’s ninth cause
of action for unjust enrichment. In the ninth cause of action, Wave alleges
that “Defendants took the $100,000 payment Wave submitted for the first tranche
of Wave and SecurCapital’s joint investment or acquisition transaction with
Breakout, and instead of using it for that purpose, converted the $100,000 for
their own private use…As a result of their actions, Defendants have been
enriched by taking the full value of Wave and SecurCapital’s joint investment
in Breakout and BHI for themselves, rather than sharing it as agreed with
Wave.” (TAC, ¶¶ 107-108.) 
Wave further alleges that “[o]n or about July 8, 2019, Defendants
unilaterally and without Wave’s permission closed a transaction with Breakout
instead of closing that transaction on behalf of the partnership or joint
venture formed between Wave and SecurCapital. Defendants thereby violated their
agreement not to close any transaction with Breakout without Wave’s express
prior consent, as well as their agreement to engage in a joint transaction
whereby Wave and SecurCapital would be co-investors in Breakout and BHI.” (TAC,
¶ 106.) 
Defendants assert that the unjust enrichment cause of action has no
merit “because Wave alleges contracts between the parties.” (Mot. at p.
19:2-3.) Defendants cite to California Medical Assn. v. Aetna U.S. Healthcare
of California, Inc. (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 151, 172, where the Court of Appeal found that “as a matter of law, a quasi-contract action for unjust
enrichment does not lie where, as here, express binding agreements exist and
define the parties’ rights.” In addition, in Lance Camper Manufacturing Corp. v. Republic
Indemnity Co. (1996)
44 Cal.App.4th 194, 203, cited by Defendants, the Court of Appeal noted
that “the
Insured has alleged the existence and validity of an enforceable written
contract between the parties in its first two causes of action. The
Insured then realleges the existence of the written contract in its claim of a
quasi-contract. This is internally inconsistent. The Insured must allege that the
express contract is void or was rescinded in order to proceed with its
quasi-contract claim.” 
In the opposition, Wave asserts that “[t]his
is not a case where there are undisputed express written agreements governing
the entire subject matter. The NCA does not encompass Wave’s $100,000 loan, for
instance.” (Opp’n at p. 26:10-12.) But in the third cause of action for breach
of partnership or joint venture agreement, Wave alleges that it “performed all
the terms and conditions required by the parties’ partnership or joint
venture agreement to be performed by Wave, including by contributing $100,000
to the partnership on or about May 1, 2019.” (TAC, ¶ 62, emphasis added.)
Wave alleges that “[p]ursuant to the parties’ statements, written agreements,
and actions between April 2019 and July 2019, Wave and SecurCapital intended to
and did form a partnership or joint venture…” (TAC, ¶ 61.) Defendants note that
“[a]n express contract is one,
the terms of which are stated in words.” (Civ. Code, § 1620.) As discussed, “a
quasi-contract action for unjust enrichment does not lie where…express binding
agreements exist and define the parties’ rights.” (California Medical Assn. v. Aetna U.S. Healthcare
of California, Inc., supra, at p. 172.) The Court
does not find that Wave has shown that express binding agreements do not exist
in this action that pertain to Wave’s $100,000 loan. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court grants Defendants’ motion for
summary adjudication as to the ninth cause of action. 
H.    Tenth and Eleventh
Causes of Action
SecurCapital moves for summary adjudication as to Wave’s tenth cause
of action for accounting. Russell and SecurCapital move for summary adjudication as to
Wave’s eleventh cause of action for constructive trust. Defendants argue that “Wave’s
tenth and eleventh causes of action have no merit because they are wholly
derivative of Wave’s failed breach of fiduciary duty claim.” (Mot. at p.
19:21-22.) As set forth above, the Court finds that Wave has raised triable
issues of material fact as to whether SecurCapital and Russell owed fiduciary
duties to Wave. As discussed, the Court denies Defendants’ motion for summary
adjudication as to the fourth cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty.
Accordingly, the Court also denies SecurCapital’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the tenth cause of action, as well as Defendants’ motion for
summary adjudication as to the eleventh cause of action. 
Conclusion 
Based on the foregoing, the Court denies Russell’s motion for summary
judgment. The Court grants Russell’s motion for summary adjudication as to the
ninth cause of action of the TAC. Russell’s motion for summary adjudication is
otherwise denied. 
The Court grants SecurCapital’s motion for summary adjudication as to
the ninth cause of action of the TAC. SecurCapital’s motion for summary
adjudication is otherwise denied. 
Defendants
are ordered to give notice of this Order. 
 
DATED:  January 9, 2025                              ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


