  Case Number:  21VECV01138    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
  CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT




Financial Services Vehicle Trust, et
  al.,
Plaintiffs,
 
   v.
 
Nimrod Atinger and Does 1 through 20,
Defendants.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
  21VECV01138               107




 
 
COURT’S
  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:       
Motion
  to Enforce Settlement 



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]:
 
 
I.               
BACKGROUND
 
On
or about February 24, 2020, Defendant Nimrod Atinger (“Atinger”) and Plaintiff
Financial Services Vehicle Trust by and through its servicer, BMW Financial
Services NA, LLC as administered by its Rolls-Royce Motor Cars Financial
Services Division (“Plaintiff”) entered a Motor Vehicle Lease Agreement (the
“Lease Agreement”) for the use of a 2020 Rolls Royce Dawn (the “Vehicle”).
(Complaint ¶¶ 1-2, 5.)
Atinger defaulted on the Lease Agreement by failing to make the payment due and
by subleasing the Vehicle. (Complaint ¶ 7.) On August 26, 2021, Plaintiff filed
a complaint against Atinger and Does 1 through 20 alleging two causes of action
for breach of contract and common count.
 
On October 12, 2021, Atinger filed
a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Roadstarr Motor Sports, Inc. and
Roes 1 through 30, alleging causes of action for implied equitable indemnity
and negligence.
 
On May 6, 2022, Atinger
filed an amended cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Roadstarr Motor
Sports, Inc., Hussein Iddrissu (“Iddrissu”), and Roes 1 through 30
(collectively, “Cross-Defendants”).
 
The amended cross-complaint alleged that, on
or about mid-September 2020, Atinger transferred possession of the Vehicle to
Cross-Defendants to sell or lease the vehicle on Atinger’s behalf. (Amended
Cross-Complaint ¶ 8.) On or about September 26, 2020, Cross-Defendants allowed
a customer to test drive the Vehicle without supervision. (Amended
Cross-Complaint ¶ 9.) The customer did not return the Vehicle. (Amended
Cross-Complaint ¶ 9.)
 
On June 25, 2024, Atinger, Iddrissu, and
Farmers Insurance Exchange (“Farmers”) executed a settlement agreement (the
“Agreement”). (Ex. A.)
 
On
October 24, 2024, Atinger filed a motion to enforce a settlement between
Atinger and Iddrissu. On November 8, 2024, Iddrissu filed an opposition, to
which no reply was filed.
II.            
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 664.6, subdivision (a) states: 
 
If parties to pending litigation stipulate,
in a writing signed by the parties outside of the presence of the court or
orally before the court, for settlement of the case, or part thereof, the
court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement.
If requested by the parties, the court may retain jurisdiction over the parties
to enforce the settlement until performance in full of the terms of the
settlement.
 
“[A] writing is
signed by a party if it is signed by any of the following:
(1) The party. [or] (2) An attorney who represents the party.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 664.6(b).)
 
 “[A] judge hearing a section 664.6 motion may
receive evidence, determine disputed facts, and enter the terms of a settlement
agreement as a judgment,” but may not “create the material terms of a
settlement.” (Weddington Products, Inc., v. Flick (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th
793, 810.) “Stipulated judgments are interpreted according to contract
principles.” (Estate of Jones (2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 948, 952.)
 
“A contract must
be so interpreted as to give effect to the mutual intention of the parties as
it existed at the time of contracting, so far as the same is ascertainable and
lawful.” (Civ. Code, § 1636.) “To interpret a contract, [the court] look[s] to
its language (§ 1638) and ascertain[s] the intent of the parties, if possible,
based solely on the contract's written provisions (§ 1639).” (Hewlett-Packard
Co. v. Oracle Corp. (2021) 65 Cal.App.5th 506, 530–31.)
 
“A ‘condition
precedent is either an act of a party that must be performed or an uncertain
event that must happen before the contractual right accrues or the contractual
duty arises.’” (Estate of Jones, supra, 82 Cal.App.5th at p. 953.)
“Conditions precedent may be created either expressly – by words such as
‘subject to’ or ‘conditioned upon’ – or impliedly.” (Id.) “They are
generally disfavored and are strictly construed against a party arguing the
agreement imposes one.” (Id.) “Courts will not interpret a provision as
a condition precedent absent clear, unambiguous language requiring that
construction.” (Id.)
III.          
DISCUSSION 
 
Atinger seeks a court order
entering judgment pursuant to the Agreement. (Motion p. 3.) Atinger also seeks
$2,000.00 in attorneys’ fees and interest at a rate of 10% per annum. (Motion
p. 3.) 
 
Iddrissu argues the Motion should
be denied because the Agreement was conditioned on “(1) the complete execution
of both the BMW-ATINGER Settlement Agreement and the ATINGER-IDDRISSU
Settlement Agreement by all parties, (2) notification thereof, (3) approval of
this Court of BMW’s Stipulation & Order for Settlement, and (4) notice of
the entry of the Order” and Atinger submitted no evidence those conditions were
satisfied.
 
The Agreement states:
 
(i)             
Farmers
will deliver a check in the amount of $53,500.00 to Atinger’s attorney, Raviv
Netzah, of Netzah & Shem-Tov, Inc., and payable to the ‘Netzah &
Sham-Tov, Inc.’s Client Trust Account.’ Raviv Netzah will then immediately
deposit said payment into the Netzah and Shem-Tov, Inc.’s Client Trust Account
and hold said sums in trust for the benefit of BMW FS.
 
(ii)           
Iddrissu
will deliver a check in the amount of $38,000.00 to Atinger’s attorney, Raviv
Netzah, of Netzah & Shem-Tov, Inc., and payable to the ‘Netzah &
Shem-Tov, Inc.’s Client Trust Account.
 
(iii)         
The
foregoing Settlement Payments shall be delivered to Raviv Netzah, Netzah &
Shem-Tov, Inc., located at 15260 Ventura Blvd. Suite 1850 Sherman Oaks, CA
91403, within 5 court days of the occurrence of all the following: (1) the
complete execution of this Agreement by all parties; (2) notification that the
BMW FS Settlement has been fully executed; and (3) notification of entry of the
court order as set forth in the Stipulation & Order.
 
(iv)          
Immediately
upon receipt of the Settlement Payment(s), Raviv Netzah will deposit said
payment(s) into the Netzah & Shem-Tov, Inc.’s Client Trust Account and hold
said sums in trust for the benefit of BMW FS and forward said funds to BMW FS
according to the terms of the BMW FS Settlement and Stipulation & Order.
 
(Ex. A pp. 2-3.)
Thus, as expressed by the Agreement, Iddrissu’s
obligation to pay Atinger was conditioned upon: “(1) the complete execution of
this Agreement by all parties; (2) notification that the BMW FS Settlement has
been fully executed; and (3) notification of entry of the court order as set
forth in the Stipulation & Order.” (Ex. A p. 2.)
 
The submitted Agreement is signed by Atinger,
Iddrissu, and Farmers. (Ex. A pp. 6-9.) However, Atinger submits no evidence
showing Iddrissu was notified that the BMW FS Settlement was fully executed or
that Iddrissu was notified of entry of the court order as set forth in the
Stipulation & Order.
Thus, Atinger has not submitted evidence showing
Atinger is entitled to an order enforcing the Agreement.
 
IV.          
ATTORNEYS’
FEES
 
The Agreement provides that:
 
In the event any party
to this Agreement files an action or proceeding, including a motion under Code
of Civil Procedure § 664.6, against another party regarding this Agreement
or any provision herein, the prevailing party shall be entitled to recover its
attorney’s fees and other costs incurred in that action or proceeding, in
addition to any other relief to which such prevailing party may be entitled.
 
(Ex. A p. 5.)
Atinger is not the prevailing party and is therefore
not entitled to attorneys’ fees.
 
V.             
CONCLUSION
 
For the foregoing reasons, the Motion is
denied.
 
 
Dated:                          November 21, 2024                                         _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon. Eric Harmon
Judge of the
Superior Court
 