  Case Number:  19STCV34358    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



BEVERLY HILLS POLICE OFFICERS'
  ASSOCIATION, et al., 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
CITY OF BEVERLY HILLS, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  19STCV34358
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  November 21, 2024
 Calendar Number:  1



 
 
 
Defendant California Public
Employees Retirement System (“CalPERS”) moves for judgment on the pleadings as
to the fourth cause of action for declaratory judgment in the Second Amended
Complaint (“SAC”) filed by Plaintiffs Ryan Lawrence, Alex Duncan, and Tyler
Diamond (collectively, the “Individual Plaintiffs”), and Beverly Hills Police
Officers’ Association (“BHPOA”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”).

 
The Court GRANTS the motion for judgment on the pleadings.
 
Background
 
The City of Beverly Hills (“Beverly Hills”) contracts with
CalPERS for the purpose of providing certain benefits, including retirement
benefits, for its employees. The Individual Plaintiffs receive retirement
benefits through this program.
 
The Individual Plaintiffs were employees of Beverly Hills
and were enrolled in the CalPERS retirement program pursuant to a Memorandum of
Understanding (the “MOU”) governing their relationship with Beverly Hills. The
central issue in this case is the retirement formula the Individual Plaintiffs
were enrolled in. In short, although the Individual Plaintiffs were enrolled in
a “3% by 55 formula,” they contend that they actually should have been enrolled
in a “3% by 50 formula” under the MOU.
 
Plaintiffs filed this action on September 26, 2019. The
operative complaint is now the SAC. Plaintiffs filed the SAC against Beverly
Hills and CalPERS on February 24, 2020, raising claims for (1) breach of
contract – Memorandum of Understanding; (2) breach of contract – Individual
Employment Agreement; (3) petition for writ of mandate; and (4) declaratory
relief.
 
On August 24, 2020, the Court transferred the third cause of
action to the Writs and Receivers Department.
 
On December 17, 2020, Department 85 in the Writs and
Receivers Department sustained the demurrer to the third cause of action for
failure to exhaust administrative remedies, stating that Plaintiffs would need
to seek relief from CalPERS.
 
On December 22, 2020, Plaintiffs requested that CalPERS
change the retirement formula for the Individual Plaintiffs to the 3% at 50
formula. On February 2, 2021, CalPERS issued a determination that the
Individual Plaintiffs were correctly enrolled in the 3% at 55 formula. 
 
On October 5, 2021, the Court sustained CalPERS’s demurrer
to the first and second causes of action against CalPERS without leave to
amend. In that order, the Court concluded that the first cause of action was
unfounded as against CalPERS because Plaintiffs conceded that CalPERS is not
liable for breach of the MOU. The Court concluded that CalPERS could not be
liable under the second cause of action because Plaintiffs had not entered into
an employment agreement with CalPERS. The Court concluded that CalPERS was not
otherwise a necessary party to either of those causes of action. The Court
overruled CalPERS’s demurrer with respect to the fourth cause of action for
declaratory relief, explaining that “the CalPERS board cannot determine the
proper interpretation of the MOU between [Beverly Hills]and [the Association].
That interpretation is left to this Court.” (October 5, 2021 Minute Order at p.
2.) 
 
Meanwhile, Plaintiffs appealed CalPERS’s finding that the
Individual Plaintiffs were properly enrolled in the 3% at 55 formula, and an
administrative hearing (the “OAH Hearing”) was initiated with the OAH and was
conducted on February 1, April 13, and April 22, 2022. (CalPERS RJN, Exh. 7
(“OAH Proposed Order”).) CalPERS, Plaintiffs, and Beverly Hills participated in
the OAH Hearing and were represented by counsel. (OAH Proposed Order at p. 2.) Plaintiffs
presented documentary evidence and testimony and conducted oral and written
arguments and cross-examination of witnesses. (OAH Proposed Order at pp. 2-3,
13-14.)
 
On September 12, 2022, the administrative law judge (“ALJ”)
issued a proposed order. (OAH Proposed Order at p. 26.) That order was
subsequently adopted by the CalPERS Board of Administration. (CalPERS RJN, Exh.
8 at p. 3.) The ALJ rejected the Court’s determination (and CalPERS’s position
at the OAH Hearing) that the OAH could not consider the terms of the MOU,
determining that it had the power under PERL to determine the meaning of the
MOU. (OAH Proposed Order at pp. 18-19.) As explained by the ALJ, “jurisdiction
is established to determine (1) whether PERS and [Beverly Hills] acted in
compliance with Government Code 20475 and (2) whether [Beverly Hills]
committed any error in applying the 3% at 55 retirement formula to [Plaintiffs]
under Government Code sections 20475 and 20160. The
ALJ must consider the language of the 2011 MOU to make these determinations.
The potential impact of the ALJ's findings outside of this proceeding is not
determinative of the resolution of the issues here. However, the ALJ's
authority is limited to claims based on the PERL; no other claims have been
considered.” (OAH Proposed Order at p. 19 [emphasis added].)

 
On May 11, 2023, the Court granted
summary adjudication for defendant Beverly Hills on the first, second, and
fourth causes of action and, as a result, granted Beverly Hills summary
judgment as to the entire action. The Court found that the first cause of
action was barred by collateral estoppel as a result of the OAH Hearing. In
reaching that conclusion, the Court found that the OAH Hearing addressed the
issue of whether the Individual Plaintiffs were correctly classified in the 3%
at 55 formula under the MOU and was a final judgment on the merits by an
administrative agency acting in a quasi-judicial capacity. The Court found that
summary adjudication for Beverly Hills was appropriate on the fourth cause of
action because summary adjudication had been granted on the first two claims,
removing any basis for declaratory judgment that Plaintiffs were entitled to be
enrolled in the 3% by 50 formula pursuant to either the MOA (first cause of
action) or individual employment agreements (second cause of action).
 

On June 23, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a Petition for Writ of
Mandate pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure, section 1094.5 requesting a review
of the OAH decision, Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. 23STCP02217 (the “Writ
Proceedings”) in Department 85. (CalPERS RJN, Exh. 11.) Plaintiffs requested to
set aside the decision and categorize the Individual Plaintiffs in the 3% at 50
formula. Department 85 subsequently denied Plaintiffs’ petition on July 30,
2024.

 

CalPERS filed the current motion on July 3, 2023. Plaintiffs
filed an opposition and CalPERS filed a reply.
 
The Court held an initial hearing on this motion on
September 21, 2023. The Court heard argument on (1) CalPERS’s argument that
Plaintiffs’ action is barred by collateral estoppel following the OAH decision;
(2) CalPERS’s argument that Plaintiffs had failed to exhaust administrative
remedies; and (3) CalPERS’s argument that the fourth cause of action fails
because the Court dismissed the first and second causes of action against
CalPERS. Following the hearing, the Court ordered the parties to file additional
briefing on the status of the Writ Proceedings and the issue of collateral
estoppel. The Court also determined that a motion for judgment on the pleadings
was the proper vehicle by which to bring CalPERS’s arguments here.
 
CalPERS filed an additional brief on the status of the writ
proceedings. Plaintiffs filed an additional brief on the writ proceedings.
 
On January 23, 2024, the Court stayed this case pending the
outcome of the writ of mandate proceedings and continued this motion.
 
As noted above, on July 30, 2024, Department
85 issued a minute order in the Writ Proceedings denying Plaintiffs’ First
Amended Petition for Writ of Mandate (the “July 30 Order”).  No notice of appeal has been filed.

 
On August 14, 2024, the Court ordered additional briefing on
the effect of the July 30 Order. CalPERS filed a brief. Plaintiffs filed a
reply. CalPERS filed a response brief.
 
Requests for Judicial Notice
 
The Court grants the parties’ requests for judicial notice
and takes notice of the submitted public records.
 
Legal Standard
 
It is well established in California that either prior to
trial, but after the time to answer or demur has passed, or at the trial, the
plaintiff or the defendant may move for judgment on the pleadings and that the
appropriate ground for such a motion is the same as that arguable by general
demurrer, namely, the failure to state a cause of action or defense. (Dobbins
v. Hardister (1966) 242 Cal.App.2d 787, 791; See also Sofias v. Bank of
America (1985) 172 Cal.App.3d 583, 586 [The non-statutory motion for judgment
on the pleadings can be made at any time, even during trial, since the grounds
for a general demurrer are never waived.], see also Code Civ. Proc., §438(f).)  
 
A motion for judgment on the pleadings performs the same
function as a general demurrer, and hence attacks only defects disclosed on the
face of the pleadings or by matters that can be judicially noticed. (See, e.g.,
Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (TRG 1998)
§§ 7:275, 7:322; Lance Camper Manufacturing Corp. v. Republic Indemnity Co.
(1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 194, 198.) Presentation of extrinsic evidence is
therefore not proper on a motion for judgment on the pleadings. (Id.; Cloud
v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999.) Both a demurrer
and a motion for judgment on the pleadings accept as true all material factual
allegations of the challenged pleading, unless contrary to law or to facts of
which a court may take judicial notice. (Mechanical Contractors Assn. v.
Greater Bay Area Assn. (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 672, 677; Edwards v. Centex
Real Estate Corp, (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 15, 27.) 
 
The motion may be made only after one of the following
conditions has occurred: (1) If the moving party is a plaintiff, and the
defendant has already filed his or her answer to the complaint and the time for
the plaintiff to demur to the answer has expired; (2) If the moving party is a
defendant, and the defendant has already filed his or her answer to the
complaint and the time for the defendant to demur to the complaint has expired.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 438(f).) The motion provided for in Code of Civil Procedure
section 438 may be made even though either of the following conditions
exist:  (1) The moving party has already demurred to the complaint or
answer, as the case may be, on the same grounds as is the basis for the motion
provided for in this section and the demurrer has been overruled, provided that
there has been a material change in applicable case law or statute since the
ruling on the demurrer; (2) The moving party did not demur to the complaint or
answer, as the case may be, on the same grounds as is the basis for the motion
provided for in this section. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438(g).) No motion may be
made pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 438 if a pretrial conference
order has been entered pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 575, or
within 30 days of the date the action is initially set for trial, whichever is
later, unless the court otherwise permits. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438(e).) 
 
Discussion
 
            The
Court has already sustained CalPERS’s demurrer as to Plaintiffs’ claims against
CalPERS for breach of the MOU and breach of alleged individual employment
agreements. The Court declined to dismiss Plaintiffs’ declaratory relief claim
against CalPERS at the time because the issue of the MOU’s applicability to
Beverly Hills was yet to be determined. On summary judgment in favor of Beverly
Hills, the Court determined that the ALJ’s finding that Beverly Hills had not
violated the MOU was preclusive, and therefore granted judgment in favor of
Beverly Hills on the first, second, and fourth causes of action. Thus, the
issue of the MOU’s applicability to Beverly Hills has been determined.
 
Collateral Estoppel
 
CalPERS contends that the ALJ’s finding that Plaintiffs were
not entitled to be placed within the “3% by 50” category is preclusive. Plaintiffs
argue that the application of collateral estoppel to the ALJ’s findings on the
MOU is improper.
 
“As generally understood, ‘[t]he doctrine of res judicata
gives certain conclusive effect to a former judgment in subsequent litigation
involving the same controversy.’ [Citation.] The doctrine ‘has a double
aspect.’ [Citation.] ‘In its primary aspect,’ commonly known as claim
preclusion, it ‘operates as a bar to the maintenance of a second suit between
the same parties on the same cause of action. [Citation.]’ [Citation.] ‘In its
secondary aspect,’ commonly known as collateral estoppel, ‘[t]he prior judgment
... “operates” ’ in ‘a second suit ... based on a different cause of action ...
“as an estoppel or conclusive adjudication as to such issues in the second
action as were actually litigated and determined in the first action.”
[Citation.]’ [Citation.] ‘The prerequisite elements for applying the doctrine
to either an entire cause of action or one or more issues are the same: (1) A
claim or issue raised in the present action is identical to a claim or issue
litigated in a prior proceeding; (2) the prior proceeding resulted in a final
judgment on the merits; and (3) the party against whom the doctrine is being
asserted was a party or in privity with a party to the prior proceeding.
[Citations.]’” (Boeken v. Philip Morris USA, Inc. (2010) 48 Cal.4th 788,
797.)
 
There is no dispute that the exact same parties present here
were represented at the OAH Hearing. Further, now that the Writ Proceedings
have concluded in an order upholding the OAH ruling, the OAH ruling is now
final.
 
Plaintiffs argued that the ALJ could not have resolved their
claims in the SAC because the ALJ only considered Plaintiffs’ statutory claims,
and not on their contract claims. However, as discussed above, collateral
estoppel can apply to individual issues, in the form of issue preclusion, in addition
to entire claims. In evaluating Plaintiffs’ statutory claims, the ALJ
necessarily considered the meaning of the MOU terms when determining that PERS
properly applied the MOU to put Plaintiffs in the 3% at 55 formula. Thus, while
the ALJ could not make a determination on Plaintiffs’ contract claims
writ-large, the interpretations which the ALJ did reach as a necessary
part of evaluating Plaintiffs’ statutory claims has the ability to be
preclusive, as explained in the Court’s summary judgment minute order.
 
Plaintiffs argue that Beverly Hills is
not a necessary party for the Court to grant declaratory relief between
Plaintiffs and CalPERS. Plaintiffs argue that CalPERS owes a fiduciary duty to
Plaintiffs that is the basis for their declaratory relief claim, which claim
does not require the existence of Defendant Beverly Hills or Plaintiffs’ claims
against Beverly Hills. The Court again agrees, but that is not the issue here –
the issue is that the ALJ has ruled substantively on the dispute at issue in
Plaintiffs’ declaratory relief claim. The ALJ found that Plaintiffs were
properly classified under the 3% at 55 formula, and were not entitled to be
classified under the 3% at 50 formula. The ALJ thus addressed an identical
issue to the one present in Plaintiffs’ declaratory relief claim.  This result was challenged in a writ petition
in Department 85, which did not disturb the ALJ’s ruling.  

 
Because the OAH proceeding involved the same issue as
Plaintiffs’ declaratory relief claim, was litigated by Plaintiffs, and resulted
in a final judgment on the merits, issue preclusion is proper. The Court
therefore finds that the ALJ’s ruling that Plaintiffs were properly classified
under the 3% by 55 formula resolves Plaintiffs’ declaratory relief claim in
CalPERS’s favor.
 
The Court therefore GRANTS the motion for judgment on the
pleadings.