 Case Number:  23SMCV01239    Hearing Date:   December 16, 2024    Dept:  I The matter is here for a final status conference.  The court’s FSC order was given on September
18, 2023.  The court has received no FSC
papers.  The court has received
Schrader’s request for a continuance, which plaintiff does not oppose, on the
ground that Schrader seeks new counsel
 
Good cause has not been shown for a continuance.  While plaintiff states he tried to reach out
to defendant (but has received only radio silence), that was apparently not
until less than two weeks ago.  The court
specifically told the parties of the need to start planning 2-3 months before
the FSC so as to be ready.  Waiting until
the other side has no lawyer is not acting appropriately.  Defendants have even less excuse.  Rather than figure out that there was a
problem in enough time to get this done, prior counsel substituted out for the
defense less than a month before trial and the defense has done nothing to get
ready since then.  Further, at least
according to the defense, although the case is over 18 months old and the FSC
order was given more than a year ago, the parties have not completed
discovery.  That is not good cause for a
continuance or for a lack of preparation. 
The court would have been prepared to try the case next week had the
parties done what they had been ordered to do and been ready.  But the fact is that the parties are not
ready.  Therefore, the court must VACATE
THE TRIAL DATE.  The court will hold a
TSC in February.  However, this case has
last priority.  The new date will be one
that works for the court; the parties’ schedule will have a lower
priority.  
 
Any defendant who is not a human and does not have a lawyer
by the TSC will have its answer stricken and will be placed in default.  At the same time, the court will hold an OSC
re: Sanctions as against the parties and plaintiff’s counsel for the failure to
be ready for trial.  Sanctions are not to
exceed $5000 for each person sanctioned. 
The court notes that it is not imposing sanctions at this time; it is
merely scheduling an OSC at which it will decide whether or not to impose
sanctions and, if sanctions are imposed, the amount thereof.  Any party wishing to submit papers on this
subject ought to do so no less than five court days before the hearing.