

 
            This action
arises over a dispute over entitlement to the distribution of certain music
royalties.

 
            Plaintiff
Capucine Jackson (Jackson) is the widow and successor-in-interest to music
producer Johnny Jackson a/k/a Johnny J (Johnny J) who passed away in 2008.
Johnny J produced numerous music recordings for the late recording artist,
Tupac Shakur, the rights of which are now mostly controlled by Shakur’s
successor in interest, Defendant Amaru Entertainment Inc. (Defendant Amaru). The
SAC alleges that the over 100 recordings that Johnny J produced for Shakur, referred
to as the “Masters,” are governed by several Agreements. The Agreements allegedly
provide in substance, that every time Shakur is paid with respect to the
exploitation of a Master, Johnny J would also get paid. The pleadings allege
Defendant Amaru breached the Agreements by refusing to cause SoundExchange to
pay Plaintiffs royalties owed by refusing to issue a statutorily required
letter of direction (LOD). 
 
            On October
28, 2022, Plaintiff Jackson filed a Complaint against Defendant Amaru for (1.)
breach of contract, (2.) specific performance, (3.) declaratory relief, and
(4.) injunctive relief. On January 10, 2023, Defendant Amaru filed a demurrer
to Plaintiffs’ Complaint, which was sustained, with leave to amend. 
 
On March 20, 2023, Plaintiff Jackson
filed her First Amended Complaint, which asserted causes of action for: (1.)
breach of contract, (2.) specific performance, (3.) declaratory relief, (4.)
injunctive relief, and (5.) fraud (concealment). 
 
On May 22, 2023, Defendant Amaru
filed a demurrer to Plaintiff Jackson's First Amended Complaint, which was
sustained by this Court on June 22, 2023, with leave to amend, as to the causes
of action for breach of contract, declaratory relief, and fraud (concealment),
but without leave to amend, as to her causes of action for specific performance
and injunctive relief.        
 
On July 12, 2023, Plaintiffs
Capucine Jackson and (newly included) Klock Work Entertainment, Inc.
(Plaintiffs) filed a Second Amended Complaint alleging causes of action for (1.)
breach of contract, (2.) declaratory relief, and (3.) fraud.  
 
On August 11, 2023, Defendant Amaru
filed a demurrer and motion to strike to Plaintiffs’ SAC. Plaintiffs filed an
opposition to both the demurrer and motion to strike. 
 
            The
demurrer as to the first and second causes of action is sustained in part without
leave to amend and overruled in part, and the demurrer is sustained without
leave as to the third cause of action. The motion to strike is denied. 
 
Legal Standard for
Demurrers
 
A demurrer is an objection to a
pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the face of the
complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the
sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley v.
Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting
all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law . . . .” ’ ”  (Berkley v. Dowds (2007)
152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court
liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has
been stated. (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50
Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
First
Cause of Action for Breach of Contract
 
            Defendant Amaru demurs to the first cause of action for
breach of contract on the grounds that Plaintiffs’ claim is barred by the
statute of limitations. 
 
To state a claim for breach of contract, a plaintiff
must allege “(1) the contract, (2) plaintiff's performance or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damages to
plaintiff.” (Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc.
(1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1388.) 
 
According to the SAC, Defendant
Amaru breached the May 12, 1998 Settlement Agreement, the May 21, 1999 Producer
Agreement, the September 29, 1999 Producer Agreement and the May 21, 2001 Global
Agreement (collectively, the Agreements (SAC, Exhibits B-E)) when Defendant
Amaru failed to provide statements for, and facilitate the provision of a share
of the digital performance royalties from SoundExchange to Plaintiffs. (SAC ¶
61.) 
 
For a breach of a written contract, the statute of
limitations is four years. (Code Civ. Proc., § 337, subd. (a); Landale-Cameron
Court, Inc. v. Ahonen (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1410.) Generally, the
statute of limitations on a cause of action for breach of contract, whether
written or oral, begins to run at the time of the breach. (See Fox v.
Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 797, 806; E.O.C. Ord, Inc.
v. Kovakovich (1988) 200 Cal.App.3d 1194, 1203.) 
 
Here, the SAC alleges that Defendant Amaru began
“receiving SoundExchange statements and royalties
with respect to the Released Masters since approximately 2003. Amaru had the
obligation to disclose this information to Plaintiffs, but instead concealed it
from Plaintiffs, with the intention to convert monies to which Plaintiffs were
entitled.” (SAC ¶ 11.) Plaintiffs now claim they are entitled to “damages
in the amount of all SoundExchange royalties received by Defendant since 2003.”
(SAC ¶ 63.)  Thus,
under Plaintiffs’ breach of contract theory, the breach occurred (and the claim
began to accrue) in 2003. Plaintiffs did not file this action until October 28,
2022. On its face, the breach of contract claim is barred by the four-year
statute of limitations. 


However,
in the SAC, Plaintiffs also assert that the statutes of limitations is subject
to equitable tolling, equitable estoppel, delayed discovery and the continuous
accrual doctrine.
 
As
a preliminary matter, Plaintiffs have not alleged facts to support the
application of equitable tolling. 
 
The
SAC alleges Plaintiffs’ breach of contract claim should be equitably tolled by
Defendant Amaru’s failure to respond to Plaintiffs’ requests for a letter of
direction from June 4, 2020 until January 8, 2022 – when Defendant Amaru
informed Plaintiffs that it would not issue the LOD to SoundExchange. (SAC ¶¶
54-56).
 
“Equitable tolling is a ‘judicially created,
nonstatutory doctrine’ that ‘ “suspend[s] or extend[s] a statute of limitations
as necessary to ensure fundamental practicality and fairness.” (Ventura
Coastal, LLC v. Occupational Safety and Health Appeals Board (2020) 58
Cal.App.5th 1, 31.) Equitable tolling “applies only ‘in carefully considered
situations to prevent the unjust technical forfeiture of causes of action.’” (Law
Finance Group, LLC v. Key (2023) 14 Cal.5th 932, 954.) “However, courts
have adhered to a general policy which favors relieving plaintiff from the bar
of a limitations statute when, possessing several legal remedies he [or
she], reasonably and in good faith, pursues one designed to lessen the
extent of his [or her] injuries or damage.” (Addison v. State of California
(1978) 21 Cal.3d 313, 317–318 [italics added].) That is, ‘[t]he doctrine of
equitable tolling, however, only applies where the plaintiff has alternate
remedies and has acted in good faith.” (Thomas v. Gilliland (2002) 95
Cal.App.4th 427, 434.) 
 
In this case, Plaintiffs cites no authority suggesting
that their informal discussions with Defendant Amaru satisfies the “alternative
remedy” requirement for equitable tolling. Instead, case law suggests that an alternative
remedy for equitable tolling purposes must be consist
of an administrative or judicial proceedings created by statute or tort law. (See e.g., Downs
v. Department of Water & Power (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1093, 1100-1101
[noting other circumstances where equitable tolling had been applied].) 
 
Moreover,
in their opposition to the demurrer, Plaintiffs make no legal argument with
respect to equitable tolling, and instead suggest that Defendant Amaru is
equitably estopped from invoking the statute of limitations.[1] Thus, the Court finds Plaintiffs have not alleged
facts to support the application of equitable tolling here.
 
For its contention that Defendant Amaru is equitably estopped
from asserting the statute of limitations, Plaintiffs argue that, “Defendant’s
concealment of the SoundExchange statements from 2003 onwards equitably estops
Defendant from invoking the statute of limitations.” (Opp. 13:16-17.) 
 
In appropriate cases, a defendant may be equitably
estopped from asserting a statutory limitations period. (Lantzy v. Centex
Homes (2003) 31 Cal.4th 363, 383–384.) “ ‘ “Generally speaking, four
elements must be present in order to apply the doctrine of equitable estoppel:
(1) the party to be estopped must be apprised of the facts; (2) he [or she]
must intend that his [or her] conduct shall be acted upon, or must so act that
the party asserting the estoppel had a right to believe it was so intended; (3)
the other party must be ignorant of the true state of facts; and (4) he [or
she] must rely upon the conduct to his [or her] injury.” ’ ” (Honeywell v.
Workers’ Comp. Appeals Bd. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 24, 37.)
 
“Equitable estoppel does not “extend” the statute of
limitations “ ‘but rather comes into play only after the limitations period has
run and addresses itself to the circumstances in which a party will be estopped
from asserting the statute of limitations as a defense to an admittedly
untimely action because his conduct has induced another into forbearing suit
within the applicable limitations period.’ ” (Cordova v. 21st Century Ins.
Co. (2005) 129 Cal.App.4th 89, 96.) “[C]ase law supports a general
proposition that a party may be equitably estopped from asserting a statute of
limitations defense, such estoppel requires, among other things, a plaintiff's
ignorance of the true state of facts as well as reliance upon the inequitable
conduct.” (Sharon v. Porter (2019) 41 Cal.App.5th 1, 11.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs rely on the holding in Parsons
v. Tickner (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 1513. However, Parsons neither held
nor discussed equitable estoppel – with respect to the statute of limitations
or otherwise. Rather, it held that a demurrer to the fraud claims was
improperly sustained under Code of Civil Procedure section 338, subdivision
(d), because the complaint had adequately alleged facts establishing that the
claims were undiscoverable for a lengthy period. (Id. at 1524–1530.) In
fact, Plaintiffs cite no case that turned on the application of equitable
estoppel to the statute of limitations.
 
Here,
Plaintiffs’ equitable estoppel argument conflates the underlying wrongful
conduct  with the conduct necessary to
support equitable estoppel. (Opp. 12:20-13:22.) Additionally, in the context of
an entirely different legal argument, Plaintiffs contend that they “reasonably
relied on Defendant’s representations that the issue would be resolved without
the need for litigation.” (Opp. 14:18-19 [citing SAC ¶ 54].) But actually, the
SAC merely alleges that Defendant represented that it was “looking into it.”
(SAC ¶ 54.) Even if the SAC alleged that Defendants had represented litigation would
be unnecessary, such a vague, speculative promise of future events does not
support Plaintiff’s reasonable reliance of years of forgoing bringing an action.
Therefore, Plaintiffs do not allege sufficient facts to support the application
of equitable estoppel. 
 
Finally,
the Court turns to the adequacy of the delayed discovery allegations. 
 
The
SAC alleges that Plaintiffs’ claims were tolled due to their purported delayed
discovery in 2019. Specifically, Plaintiffs allege that in 2019, a representative
of the Film Musician Secondary Markets Funds (FMSM Fund) alerted her to
possible unpaid Sound Exchange royalties. (SAC ¶¶ 49-50.) 
 
Notwithstanding
these allegations, Defendant Amaru argues that all allegations taken together
in the SAC demonstrates that Plaintiffs cannot rely on delayed discovery to
recover damages dating back to 2003. 
 
The delayed discovery rule “delays accrual [of a cause
of action] until the plaintiff has, or should have, inquiry notice of the cause
of action.... [P]laintiffs are charged with presumptive knowledge of an injury
if they have ‘ “ ‘information of circumstances to put [them] on inquiry
’ “ ‘ or if they have ‘ “ ‘the opportunity to obtain knowledge from
sources open to [their] investigation.’ “ ‘ [Citations.] In other words,
plaintiffs are required to conduct a reasonable investigation after becoming
aware of an injury, and are charged with knowledge of the information that
would have been revealed by such an investigation.” (Fox v. Ethicon
Endo-Surgery, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 797, 807-808, fn. omitted.) The delayed discovery rule may postpone
the accrual of a breach of contract claim under some circumstances,
such as when the breach involves fraud. (April Enterprises, Inc. v. KTTV (1983)
147 Cal.App.3d 805, 830.)
 
Here,
Defendant Amaru argues that Plaintiffs have not adequately alleged facts to
support delayed discovery. Specifically, Defendant Amaru argues that Plaintiffs
allegation demonstrates that Plaintiffs were on inquiry notice prior to 2018. 
 
The
SAC generally states that from 1998 to 2008, Plaintiffs “discovered
various, isolated instances of breach, infringement and/or underpayment with
respect to the royalties due to Johnny J.” (SAC ¶ 44 [p. 14].) Plaintiffs acted
diligently when they had “actual knowledge” of a specific “problem.” (Id.) Even
more specifically, Plaintiffs allege that, in 2007, Plaintiff  discovered that a remixed version of a Master was
used in the motion picture, "Blood Diamond,” and that, after searching the
applicable royalty statements, Plaintiffs did not locate any mention of compensation
paid to Jackson for the song used in the film. (SAC ¶ 45 [p. 15]; see FAC ¶
28.) The FAC alleged that he later found that no letter of direction had been
issued by Amaru or Interscope. (FAC ¶ 28.)[2]

 
The
SAC also alleges that, in around 2010, Plaintiffs reached out to well-known
performing rights organizations she knew about (ASCAP and BMI) to confirm that
she was listed as beneficiary of Johnny J's royalties. (SAC ¶ 34 [pp. 15-16].) 
 
In
2011, Plaintiff inquired with her attorney, Ms. Berliner at KHP, whether an
audit of the royalty statements would be beneficial. (SAC ¶ 46.) Her attorney
discouraged the audit stating that “does not look likely that
the recovery would exceed the cost required to send an audit team.” (SAC ¶ 46.)
Plaintiff inquired again in 2013 and was again discouraged. (SAC ¶ 47.) 
 
As
argued in the demurrer, these allegations demonstrate Plaintiff was aware of multiple
instances where Plaintiff was potentially not receiving the full extent of the royalties
that they were entitled to under the Agreements. Further, based on prior
pleadings, the allegations also support instances where Defendant Amaru’s
actions caused Plaintiffs not to receive all the royalties Plaintiffs believed they
were entitled to under the parties’ Agreements. The allegations show that
Plaintiffs were suspicious of other acts of wrongdoing and were conducting some
form of investigation as early as 2007 to uncover possible nonpayment. Based on
these allegations, the SAC indicates that Plaintiffs were on inquiry notice
much earlier than 2018 of the possible facts supporting of their breach of
contract claims. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue that Plaintiffs’ allegations regarding notice of
prior issues do not put Plaintiff on suspicion of wrongdoing here; that is, the
SAC’s allegations of prior acts of non-payment are factually different and do
not support a finding that they were on inquiry notice. Specifically, the SAC
alleges that these were “isolated” incidents of breaches, infringements and/or
underpayments with respect to the royalties that were quickly resolved by the
parties. (SAC ¶ 44.) Plaintiffs also argue that they had “no
reason to even believe [the nonpayment of royalties] was caused by Amaru.”
(Opp. 11:19-21.) Lastly, they contend that the Court
conflated its analysis of the issue of when Plaintiff’s “investigation” began
with the issue of Jackson’s “suspicion” of Amaru’s breach of contract. 
 
The allegations in the SAC do not
support delaying accrual of causes of action that arose more than four years
before the Complaint was filed.  
 
It
is well settled that “[a] plaintiff
need not be aware of the specific ‘facts’ necessary to establish the claim;
that is a process contemplated by pretrial discovery. Once the plaintiff has a
suspicion of wrongdoing, and therefore an incentive to sue, she must decide
whether to file suit or sit on her rights. So long as a suspicion exists, it is
clear that the plaintiff must go find the facts; she cannot wait for the facts
to find her.” (Jolly v. Eli Lilly & Co., supra, 44 Cal.3d
at 1111.)
 
Here, Plaintiffs cannot rely on when they discovered a
particular breach for nonpayment of royalties from Sound Exchange when
the SAC is replete with other similar instances of nonpayment. It is not necessary
that Plaintiffs were not specifically aware of non-payment from a specific
source – only that they were suspicious that they were not receiving their
required payments for the Masters.   
 
Nor
– under this suspicion of wrongdoing notice – can Plaintiffs rely on the argument
that they did not know who was responsible for the prior non-payments. As the
doctrine holds, the burden is on Plaintiff to “go finds the facts.” Moreover, the
FAC previously alleged that the 2007 nonpayment was caused by the fact that “neither
Amaru nor Interscope Records had issued a letter of direction for the benefit
of Johnny J as was required by the Agreement.” (FAC ¶ 28.)
This is the exact same allegation of misconduct that forms the basis of all of
Plaintiffs' claims in the SAC (Defendant Amaro has failed and refused to issue
a letter of direction to SoundExchange for Plaintiffs' benefit). The FAC also
alleged an “ongoing investigation into missing funds.” (FAC ¶ 39.)  
 
Based
on the foregoing, the delayed discovery rule does not postpone accrual of all
claims dating back to 2003. 
 
Claims that arose within four years
of the complaint’s filing are, however, not subject to the statute of
limitations defense. the
right to royalties under the Agreements is akin to an installment contract, with each royalty
payment in the nature of an installment contract payment and each payment a
severable and separate potential breach of contract. (Gilkyson
v. Disney Enterprises, Inc. (2016) 244 Cal.App.
4th 1336, 1343; Tsemetzin v.
Coast Federal Savings & Loan Assn.
(1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 1334, 1344; see Armstrong Petroleum Corp. v.
Tri-Valley Oil & Gas Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 1375, 1387-1396.) As
such, where there is no fixed amount to be paid, but rather a
continuing obligation to pay, or to cause periodic payment of a portion of profits as royalties, each breach
when payment is due starts the clock anew for statute of limitations purposes.
 
In response, Defendant Amaru argues that the
alleged breach is for failure to send the LOD (or provide an LOD), which is a
one-time occurrence, not a continuing obligation such as paying royalties.
However, this ignores the SAC allegations that the Agreements entitle Plaintiffs
to a certain royalty rate. 
 
Thus, this statute of limitations demurrer is
sustained without leave, but only as to breaches of the contract that occurred more
than four years prior to the filing of the complaint. (See MCA
Records, Inc. v. Allison (Cal. Ct. App., June 5, 2009, No. B199801) 2009 WL
1565037, at *14-15.)  With respect to
breaches that occurred less than four years before the complaint was filed, the
demurrer is overruled. 
 
Second
Cause of Action for Declaratory Relief
 
This
statute of limitations analysis also applies to the derivative portion of the declaratory
relief cause of action. 
 
The
SAC alleges that—based on Plaintiff’s 2001 Global Agreement or a combination of
the Agreements – Plaintiffs are entitled to SoundExchange royalties going back
to 2003 and into the future, or in the alternative, from 2018 in perpetuity.
(SAC ¶ 69.) 
 
The four-year limitations period
equally applies to claims for declaratory relief arising from a written
contract. (Bank of New York Mellon v. Citibank, N.A. (2017) 8
Cal.App.5th 935, 943 [“A claim for declaratory relief is subject to the same
statute of limitations as the legal or equitable claim on which it is
based.”].) Thus, the statute of limitations applied to the breach of contract
claim bars relief to the same extent. 
 
The demurrer
is sustained as to causes of action for breaches of the Agreements that arose
prior to four years before the filing of the Complaint, and is otherwise overruled.

 
Plaintiff
also advances a new theory in its declaratory relief cause of action. The SAC alleges
that Plaintiff is a joint copyright owner over some of the Masters. (SAC ¶ 69.)
 The parties debate whether or not there
is an actual controversy on this point. 
But to the extent Plaintiff’s declaratory relief claim requires this
Court to determine whether it has a copyright interest, the demurrer is
sustained without leave to amend.  This
Court lacks jurisdiction to adjudicate the copyright claim.  (28 U.S.C. § 1338, subd. (a).)
 
Third
Cause of Action for Fraud
 
            Defendant Amaru
argues the fraudulent concealment claim is barred by the three-year statute of
limitations.[3]
 
            To state a
claim for fraudulent inducement-concealment, Plaintiffs must allege: (1) the
defendant “concealed or suppressed a material fact,” (2) the defendant was
“under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff,” (3) the defendant
“intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the
plaintiff,” (4) the plaintiff was “unaware of the fact and would not have acted
as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact,” and (5) “as a
result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have
sustained damage.” (BiglerEngler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276,
310-311.) 
 
            The SAC
alleges fraudulent concealment based on Defendant Amaru’s intentional failure
to disclose SoundExchange royalty statements and information. (SAC ¶ 75.) Based
on the allegations, Defendants alleged fraudulent omission began in 2003. (SAC
¶ 11 [“Upon information and belief, Amaru has
been receiving SoundExchange statements and royalties with respect to the
Released Masters since approximately 2003.”].)
 
             The statute of limitations for fraud is three
years. (Civ. Proc. Code, § 338, subd. (d).)
 
            Here,
Plaintiffs were on notice of the possibility of unpaid
SoundExchange royalties on or about August 29, 2019. (SAC ¶¶ 48-50.) Despite
this notice Plaintiffs waited until over three years later, until October 28,
2022, to file the initial complaint.
 
            In opposition, Plaintiffs’ argue
that “Plaintiffs were not actually damaged, given the Parties’ prior conduct of
informally resolving disputes, until Amaru definitively repudiated its implied
and express obligations under the law and the Agreements to disclose all
statements under which Plaintiffs were entitled to receive royalties and cause
Plaintiffs to be paid.” (Opp. 14:8-11.) 
 
            Plaintiffs’
argument that the claim did not accrue until 2022 is nonsensical and contrary
to the allegations where the fraud claim is based on the failure to disclose
the SoundExchange statements starting in 2003 such that Plaintiff did not
receive their share of the SoundExchange royalties since 2003. Further, for the
reasons discussed regarding the breach of contract claim, Plaintiffs cannot
rely on equitable tolling or equitable estoppel to delay accrual of this claim.
Thus, the demurrer to this cause of action is sustained without leave to amend.

            
Sham Pleading
Claims
 
            In reply, Defendant Amaru raises the
sham pleading doctrine.
 
            Defendant argues that the FAC
previously alleged “On or about July 11, 2019, through the course of her
investigation of possibly missing funds, Ms. Jackson located documents
referring to AFM & SAG-AFTRA ... .” (FAC ¶ 39). However, in the SAC,
Plaintiffs omitted any mention of, or reference to this “investigation.” 
 
Similarly,
in the FAC, Plaintiffs alleged a specific instance where Plaintiffs’ nonpayment
of royalties was the fault of Defendant Amaru. (FAC ¶ 28 [“Johnny J and Ms.
Jackson later discovered that neither Amaru nor
Interscope Records had issued a letter of direction for the benefit of Johnny J
as was required by the Agreement.”] However, the SAC omit (without explanation)
this allegation and now alleges that while there were “isolated instances
of nonpayment to Jackson, her and her attorneys’ immediate and diligent
resolution thereof” “most of the time, either Amaru was not to blame, or
Jackson never found out who was at fault for the nonpayment.” (Opp., p. 3:20-23
[SAC ¶ 45 [p. 15] [“Johnny J and Ms. Jackson never discovered who might have
been at fault for their lack of receipt of fees for ‘Blood Diamond’”].) These
new allegations are inconsistent with Plaintiff Jackson’s allegations in the
FAC.
            
            Generally, when ruling
on a demurrer, courts must assume the truth of the complaint's factual
allegations. (Owens v. Kings Supermarket (1988) 198 Cal.App.3d 379, 383.)
The sham pleading doctrine operates as an exception to this general rule and
applies “where a party files an amended complaint and seeks to avoid the
defects of a prior complaint either by omitting the facts that rendered the
complaint defective or by pleading facts inconsistent with the allegations of
prior pleadings. [Citations.]” (Id. at p. 384.) 
 
Under these
circumstances, the court is permitted “to take judicial notice of the prior
pleadings and requires that the pleader explain the inconsistency. If he fails
to do so the court may disregard the inconsistent allegations and read into the
amended complaint the allegations of the superseded complaint. [Citations.]” (Ibid.)
“[A] proposed amendment which contradicts allegations in an earlier pleading
will not be allowed in the absence of ‘very satisfactory evidence’ upon which
it is ‘clearly shown that the earlier pleading is the result of mistake or
inadvertence.’ [Citations.]” (American Advertising & Sales Co. v.
Mid–Western Transport (1984) 152 Cal.App.3d 875, 879.)
 
            As addressed
in the delayed discovery discussions above, these omitted allegations are
persuasive to the Court’s finding that Plaintiffs cannot rely on delayed
discovery. Rather than explain these problematic allegations, Plaintiffs chose
simply to omit them and/or contradict them – raising sham pleading issues. 
 
Thus, the Court may still consider
these allegations for the purpose of determining the adequacy of the
allegations in the operative pleading. (See Berg & Berg Enterprises, LLC v.
Boyle (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 1020, 1043 fn. 25  [“Under the sham-pleading doctrine,
admissions in an original complaint that has been superseded by an amended
pleading remain within the court's cognizance and the alteration of such
statements by amendment designed to conceal fundamental vulnerabilities in a
plaintiff's case will not be accepted.”].)
 
Legal Standard for
Motions to Strike
 
            “The court may, upon a
motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.”¿(Code Civ. Proc. § 436.) “Immaterial” or “irrelevant”
matters include allegations not essential to the claim, allegations neither
pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or a demand for
judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 431.10, subds. (b)(1)-(3).)
 
Specific Performance Allegations 
 
            Defendant
Amaru moves to strike Plaintiffs’ allegations seeking specific performance.
Defendant notes that the court previously sustained the demurrer without leave to
the specific performance cause of action on the grounds that a “party may not obtain both specific
performance and damages for the same breach of contract, either in single or
multiple actions." (Mycogen Corp. v. Monsanto Co. (2002) 28 Cal.
4th 888, 905.) The request for specific performance is now sought as a remedy
to the breach of contract claim. (SAC ¶ 65, Prayer, ¶ 2.) 
 
            The motion
to strike is not well taken. 
 
            In Mycogen
Corp. v. Monsanto Co. (2002) 28 Cal. 4th 888, the court held “a party may
not obtain both specific performance and damages for the same breach of
contract, either in single or multiple actions. “A plaintiff ... may not be
awarded both [specific performance and damages for breach of contract] to the
extent such an award would constitute a double recovery.” (Id. at 905.) 
 
            However,
as a preliminary matter, the ruling in Mycogen Corp. v. Monsanto Co. (2002) 28 Cal. 4th 888 occurred after
the completion of two separate trial on the merits to a breach of contract claim;
the analysis turned on the application of res judicata. 
 
In contrast here, Plaintiffs are at
the pleading stage. A party may allege alternative theories of relief on
the pleading stage. (See Steiner v. Rowley (1950) 35 Cal.2d 713, 720
[explaining that the pleading of inconsistent, mutually exclusive remedies and
alternative causes of action on the same set of facts is permissible]; Chapman
v. Skype Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 217, 234 fn.7 [“A plaintiff ordinarily
may pursue inconsistent remedies in her complaint and need not make an election
of remedies at the pleading stage.”].) 
 
Additionally,
Plaintiffs contend that the specific performance relief is not mutually
exclusive as the request for damages do not afford Plaintiffs complete relief
because it does not ensure receipt of future payments. Here, the specific performance
allegation requests an order compelling Defendant Amaru to provide a LOD to
ensure future payments by SoundExchnage – a threat of continued harm -- and not
simply to redress past damages. (See, e.g., Tamarind Lithography Workship, Inc., v.
Sanders (1983) 143 Cal.App.3d 571, 575-576.)
 
Based on the foregoing, the motion
to strike is denied. 
 
Conclusion
 
The demurrer is sustained without
leave to amend as to the first and second causes of action with respect to nonpayment
of royalties more than four years before the complaint was filed, and overruled
with respect to royalties allegedly due four years or less before the complaint
was filed.  The demurrer is sustained
without leave to amend to the extent Plaintiff seeks a determination of its
interest in a copyright.  The demurrer to
the third cause of action is sustained without leave to amend. The motion to
strike is denied.  


