  Case Number:  23TRCV03508    Hearing Date:   December 23, 2024    Dept:  E 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest District
Torrance Dept. E




 
MARIA E.
  ROMUALDO ROMERO, an individual,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:


 
23TRCV03508




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  Denied




 
AMERICAN
  HONDA MOTOR CO., INC., a California Corporation, and DOES 1 through 10,
  inclusive


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:              December
23, 2024
 
Moving Parties:          Plaintiff Maria E. Romualdo Romero
 
Responding Party:      Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
 
HEARING: Motion to Compel the
Deposition of Defendant’s Person Most Knowledgeable and Requests for Production
 
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
 
RULING
 
            The Court denies the Motion to
Compel the Deposition of Defendant’s Person Most Knowledgeable and Requests for
Production.
            
BACKGROUND
 
            On
October 20, 2023, Plaintiff Maria
E. Romualdo Romero filed the Complaint against Defendant American Honda Motor
Co., Inc., alleging breaches of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act.
 
            On September 27, 2024, Plaintiff
served a Third Amended Notice of Deposition of Defendant’s Person Most
Knowledgeable detailing 69 Matters for Examination requested and containing 68
Requests for Production of Documents for the deposition.
 
            On October 3, 2024, Defendant
informed Plaintiff that Defendant’s PMK would be available for deposition on
March 6, 2025.
 
            On October 24, 2024, parties
convened telephonically to meet and confer.
 
            On November 7, 2024, Defendant
served its Objections to Plaintiff’s Third Amended Notice of PMK Deposition.
 
            On November 20, 2024, Plaintiff
filed the instant motion.
 
            On December 10, 2024, Defendant
filed the Opposition.
 
            On December 13, 2024, Plaintiff
filed the Reply.
 
            Trial is set for May 12, 2025.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
            If, after service of
a deposition notice, a party to the action . . . , without having served a
valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to
proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party
giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 subd. (a).) 
 
“The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to
attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored
information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450 subd. (b)(2).)  “Although the
statute appears to apply only if the deponent fails to both appear¿and¿produce
documents, it has been held to apply simply on a deponent's failure to appear.”
(Leko v. Cornerstone Building Inspection Service (2001) 86 Cal.App. 4th
1109, 1124.)   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Plaintiff requests
the Court compel the deposition of Defendant’s PMK.
 
Meet and Confer
 
A motion to compel
deposition must be “accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the
documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450 subd. (b)(2).) 
 
Here, the parties have met and conferred
regarding the deposition of Defendant’s PMK multiple times, including over
email and telephonically. (Enav Decl. ¶ 36.) While both parties argue that the
other is not conferring in good faith, the Court has not seen convincing
evidence showing that either party is acting in bad faith. 
 
Therefore, the Court finds that Plaintiff has
satisfied the meet and confer requirement.
 
Good Cause
 
            Plaintiff requests the Court strike Defendant’s
objections to the Matters of Examination and compel Defendant to produce a PMK
for all Matters of Examination requested in Plaintiff’s Third Amended Notice of
PMK Deposition and strike Defendant’s objections to Plaintiff´s associated
Request for Production of Documents and compelling Defendant to produce
Code-compliant responses and all responsive documents requested in Plaintiff’s
Third Amended Notice of PMK Deposition, both within the next 10 days. 
 
            The Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450
subdivision (a) requires that the opposing party fail to appear for an examination,
or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, without valid objections before the Court can grant a motion
to compel. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 subd. (a).) 
 
            Here, Defendant has agreed to provide a PMK in early
March. Furthermore, Defendant has not provided the 69 matters for examination
or Defendant’s objections to these matters in their separate statement. Thus, Plaintiff
has not shown that Defendant has failed to produce a PMK for examination or
that Defendant’s objections to the matters for examination were not valid.  Furthermore, the Court cannot compel
Defendant to produce documents responsive to the RFPs at a deposition it has
not compelled, and Defendant has not provided further authority under which
further responses to the RFPs could be compelled.
 
            Therefore, the Court denies the Motion to
Compel the Deposition of Defendant’s Person Most Knowledgeable and Requests for
Production.
            
 