 Case Number:  23CHCV01619    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 6-13-24
Case # 23CHCV01619, Jessica Andres, et al. vs.
Sebastian Keefe
Trial Date: N/A
 
MOTION TO STRIKE
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Vivian Ajaye
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs Jessica Andres and Sebastian
Keefe
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Motion to Strike
·        
Claims for Punitive Damages [Comp., ¶¶ 26, 36, and 49; and
Paragraph 3 of the prayer]
·        
Request for Attorney Fees [Comp., ¶ 26; and
Paragraph 6 of the prayer]
 
RULING: Granted with leave to amend
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION 
Plaintiffs Jessica Andres and Sebastian Keefe
(Plaintiffs) filed this case on May 31, 2023. Plaintiff have alleged that a
boulder on Defendant Vivian Ajaye’s (Defendant) property rolled down and
crashed into a retaining wall on Plaintiffs’ property. Plaintiffs also allege
that their home was damaged by the boulder. Plaintiffs allege that they filed
this action after they could not resolve the matter with Defendant.
 
Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint alleges three causes
of action for (1) Trespass; (2) Private Nuisance; and (3) Negligence. 
 
After this Court granted a previous motion to strike,
Plaintiffs filed their First Amended Complaint (FAC) on March 22, 2024. Defendant
filed her motion to strike portions of Plaintiffs’ FAC on April 17, 2024. Plaintiffs
oppose Defendant’s motion. Defendant has moved to strike Plaintiffs’ request
for punitive damages and attorney fees.
 
ANALYSIS
This Court may strike from the complaint any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter. Under CCP § 435, “[a]ny party, within the time
allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to
strike the whole or any part thereof.” Under CCP § 436(a), “[t]he court may,
upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion,
and upon terms it deems proper . . . [s]trike out any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading.”
 
            Punitive
Damages
Punitive damages are governed by Civ. Code § 3294: “In an
action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it is
proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages,
may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing the
defendant.” (Civ. Code § 3294(a).)
 
To state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a
complaint must set forth the elements as stated in Civ. Code § 3294. (Coll.
Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.) “Malice is
defined in the statute as conduct intended by the defendant to cause injury to
the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Id.
at 725.) Oppression is “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Civ. Code §
3294(c)(2).) Fraud is defined as “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or
concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the
part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights
or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code § 3294(c)(3).) 
 
Potter v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6
Cal.4th 965, 1004 explained that “punitive damages sometimes may be assessed in
unintentional tort actions.” Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d
890, 894-895 noted that “something more than the mere commission of a tort is
always required for punitive damages. There must be circumstances of
aggravation or outrage, such as spite or malice, or a fraudulent or evil motive
on the part of the defendant, or such a conscious and deliberate disregard of
the interests of others that his conduct may be called willful or wanton.”
Indeed, “punitive damages are proper only when the tortious conduct rises to
levels of extreme indifference to the plaintiff’s rights, a level which decent
citizens should not have to tolerate.” (Lackner v. North (2006) 135
Cal.App.4th 1188, 1210 (internal quotation omitted).) 
 
The “conclusory characterization of defendant’s conduct as
intentional, willful and fraudulent is a patently insufficient statement of
oppression, fraud or malice…within the meaning of section 3294.” (Brousseau
v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.) 
 
“It is not sufficient to allege merely that defendant ‘acted
with oppression, fraud or malice.’ Rather, plaintiff must allege specific facts
showing that defendant’s conduct was oppressive, fraudulent or malicious (e.g.,
that defendant acted with the intent to inflict great bodily harm on plaintiff
or to destroy plaintiff's property or reputation).” (Croskey, et al., Cal.
Prac. Guide: Insurance Litigation Ch. 13-C (Thomson Reuters, 2016) ¶ 13:197.2;
and see, Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 598, 643 [allegations that defendant’s conduct was “intentional,
and done willfully, maliciously, with ill will towards Plaintiffs, and with
conscious disregard for Plaintiff's rights” did not satisfy specific pleading
requirements].) 
 
Plaintiffs’ FAC alleges that Defendant acted with malice and
fraud because Defendant knowingly and intentionally refused to address the
issues threatening Plaintiffs’ property and their lives. (See FAC, ¶ 36.) While
this may indicate some level of malice, there is nothing in Plaintiffs’ FAC
that indicates that any fraud took place. Plaintiffs have not alleged that
there were any misrepresentations.
 
As defined above, malice is “conduct intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.” While Plaintiffs have not alleged that Defendant
intended to cause injury to them, by refusing to do anything about the unstable
hillside, that could be an indications of a willful and conscious disregard for
Plaintiffs’ safety. However, Plaintiffs do allege that Defendant installed a
“haphazard fence acknowledging the very real damages Defendant’s Property poses
to Plaintiffs.” (FAC, ¶ 22.) If Defendant installed a fence, even a haphazard
one, then Defendant is not acting with such a degree of a willful and conscious
disregard for the safety of Plaintiffs that it would rise to the level of
malice. By alleging that Defendant built the fence, Plaintiffs are
acknowledging that Defendant made an attempt to remedy the situation, even if
it was not in the manner that Plaintiffs wanted. Therefore, Plaintiffs have not
alleged malice sufficient to maintain their claim for punitive damages.
 
The requests for punitive damages is stricken from the
complaint.
 
            Attorney
Fees
Attorney’s fees are only recoverable when authorized by
contract, statute or law. (CCP § 1021; Reid v. Valley Restaurants, Inc.
(1957) 48 Cal.2d 606, 610.) In the absence of allegations demonstrating that
plaintiff is entitled to recover attorney’s fees, a request for attorney’s fees
is improper. (Wiley v. Rhodes (1990) 223 Cal.App.3d 1470, 1474.)
 
There is no indication in Plaintiffs’ complaint that Plaintiffs
are entitled to the recovery of attorney fees. Plaintiffs cite CCP § 1021.5 as
a basis for attorney fees, but that deals with attorney fees in case that
involve the public interest. This case involves a private dispute between two
landowners. Plaintiffs’ opposition argues that their case against Defendant
would confer a benefit on the public. However, their FAC does not allege how
any benefit would be conferred to any party besides Plaintiffs if Plaintiffs
are successful in this case. Therefore, Plaintiffs have not alleged a
sufficient basis for their request for attorney fees.
 
The request for attorney fees is stricken from the
complaint.
 
CONCLUSION
Defendant’s motion to strike is granted.
 
Plaintiffs are given 30 days leave to amend their complaint.
 
Moving party to give notice to all parties.