 Case Number:  23STCV27922    Hearing Date:   February 23, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



THE CREME SHOP INC.,  
  
         vs.
 
SUNNA OLIVE KIM, et al.


 Case No.: 
  23STCV27922
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  February 23, 2024



 
Defendant Kwan Yoon’s demurrer to Plaintiff
The Crème Shop, Inc.’s 1st, 2nd, 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, and 8th causes of action
in its complaint is overruled. 
 
Defendant Kwan Yoon (“Yoon”) (“Defendant”) demurs to Plaintiff The Crème Shop, Inc.’s (“TCS”) (“Plaintiff”) Complaint
(“Complaint”) as to each cause of action alleged against him.  (Notice of Demurrer, pg. 1;
C.C.P. §§430.10(e), (g).)
 
Background
Plaintiff filed its operative Complaint on November 14, 2023
against Defendants Sunna “Olive” Kim (“Olive”), Insil “Christina” Kim
(“Christina”), Helen Yang (“Yang”), Raysa Cerna (“Cerna”), Pauline Contreras
(“Contreras”), Paul Kim (“Paul”), Rachaelle Villa (“Villa”), Deisy Larios
(“Larios”), Angela Paik (“Paik”), Yoon, and Kimberly Hernandez (“Hernandez”)
(collectively, “Defendants”) alleging nine causes of action: (1) breach of
contract [against Olive, Cerna, Contreras, Paul, Larios, Villa, Yang, and
Yoon]; (2) breach of the duty of loyalty [against all Defendants];
(3) breach of fiduciary duty [against Olive]; (4) aiding and abetting
breach of the duty of loyalty [against all Defendants]; (5) aiding and
abetting breach of fiduciary duty [against all Defendants]; (6)
misappropriation of trade secrets [against all Defendants]; (7) computer
crimes (Pen. Code §502(c)) [against all Defendants]; (8) receipt of
stolen property (Pen. Code §496(a)) [against all Defendants]; and (9)
conversion [against Olive].
Plaintiff alleges between October 6, 2023, and October 13, 2023,
several employees of TCS suddenly resigned. 
(Complaint ¶2.)  Plaintiff alleges
this mass exodus was led by Olive, TCS’s co-founder, who was under an
investigation, opened September 15, 2023, by TCS’s board of directors for
misconduct, including suspected defalcation of $200,000 from TCS through false
pretenses.  (Complaint ¶2.)  Plaintiff alleges Olive resigned on October
6th.  (Complaint ¶2.)  Plaintiff alleges on the same day, triggered
by Olive’s resignation, the employment of Christina (Olive’s mother) and
Lawrence Kim, Olive’s father and Christina’s husband) also ended.  (Complaint ¶2.)  Plaintiff alleges Christina was a co-founder
of TCS and acted in a role substantially the equivalent of TCS’ Chief Operating
Officer.  (Complaint ¶2.)  Plaintiff alleges then, on the ensuing
Monday, October 9th, seven other employees loyal to Olive suddenly resigned
without prior notice and left the company. (Complaint ¶2.)
Plaintiff alleges those who resigned on October 9th were Villa (Digital
Marketing Manager), Larios (Design Manager), Yang (Sales/Marketing Manager),
Paul (Head of Sales), Cerna (Senior Designer), Contreras (Senior Designer), and
Paik (Christina’s sister, who, on information and belief, referred to her position
as that of a Vice President).  (Complaint
¶3.)
Plaintiff alleges on October 11, 2023, Yoon (Olive’s husband and
the Head of Logistics), and Cathleen Kim (Financial Coordinator), resigned, which
was followed by the resignation of Hernandez (Graphic Designer) on October 13,
2023.  (Complaint ¶4.)  Plaintiff alleges all these resignations were
also without prior notice.  (Complaint
¶4.)
Plaintiff alleges
it was surprised by this coordinated departure, and conducted an initial
investigation and was shocked to learn that these departing employees had, in
the days (and in Olive’s case, weeks) leading up to their departure from TCS,
worked to systematically steal TCS’s confidential and proprietary information,
including trade secrets.  (Complaint
¶6.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants took
thousands of TCS’s files in the days leading up to their departures.  (Complaint ¶6.)  Plaintiff alleges they sabotaged TCS by
locking it out of its information and systems and by deleting information from
TCS’s systems.  (Complaint ¶6.)  Plaintiff alleges they changed passwords on
key documents and failed to provide those passwords to TCS, changed the
permissions on other documents to prevent TCS from accessing them, and
mass-deleted information.  (Complaint
¶6.)  
Plaintiff alleges on information and belief that Defendants
committed this misconduct in order to establish a competing business built on
the back of TCS’s confidential and proprietary information, and in a particularly
harsh, vindictive and unlawful manner aimed at crippling TCS’s ability to
conduct its business. (Complaint ¶7.) 
Plaintiff alleges as a result of Defendants’ misconduct, TCS’s business
has been irreparably harmed. (Complaint ¶7.) 
Plaintiff alleges TCS is unable to access its files from its own systems
and was unable for weeks to access key social media platforms which are the
cornerstone of its marketing.  (Complaint
¶7.)  Plaintiff alleges when pressed to
provide this information, Defendants falsely denied they had changed the
passwords or credentials.  (Complaint ¶7.)
On January 27, 2024, Yoon filed the instant demurrer.  On February 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed its
opposition.  On February 15, 2024, Yoon
filed his reply.
 
Summary of Demurrer
Yoon demur to Plaintiff’s 1st, 2nd, 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, and 8th
causes of action on the basis they fail to state facts sufficient to constitute
causes of action against Yoon.  (Demurrer
pgs. 1-2; C.C.P. §430.10(e).)  Yoon also
demurs to the 1st cause of action on the basis that it cannot be ascertained
from the pleading whether the alleged contract is written, is oral, or is
implied by conduct.  (Demurrer pg. 1;
C.C.P. §430.10(g).)  Yoon further demurs
to the 7th and 8th causes of action on the basis they are preempted and
superseded by the California Uniform Trade Secrets Act (Civ. Code
§2426.7).  (Demurrer, pg. 2.)
 
          Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring
party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.  (C.C.P.
§430.41(a), emphasis added.)  A
declaration must be filed with a demurrer regarding the results of the meet and
confer process.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a)(3).)
Yoon’s counsel’s declaration states that on January 10, 2024, he telephonically met and conferred with Plaintiff’s counsel
regarding the demurrer and the parties were unable to reach an agreement
resolving the objections raised in the demurrer.  (Decl. of Ruddell ¶2.)  Yoon’s counsel’s declaration is sufficient
under C.C.P. §430.41(a).  Accordingly,
the Court will consider the instant demurrer.

 
Legal Standard
“[A] demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc.
(2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable.  (See Donabedian v.
Mercury Insurance Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a
demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to
judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their
contents].)  For purposes of ruling on a
demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the
reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law.  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital District
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Failure to State a Claim
Breach of
Contract (1st COA)
“To prevail on a cause of action for breach of contract, the
plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance of the
contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4)
resulting damage to the plaintiff.” (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)
Although a written contract is usually pleaded by alleging its
making and attaching a copy which is incorporated by reference, a written
contract can also be pleaded by alleging the making and the substance of the
relevant terms. (Construction Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Insurance
Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198-199; Perry v. Robertson (1988) 201
Cal.App.3d 333, 341.)  “An oral contract
may be pleaded generally as to its effect, because it is rarely possible to
allege the exact words. [Citation.] A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly
construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because
ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures. [Citations.]”  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  That plaintiff
could not allege with specificity the exact terms of the contract does not
preclude statement of a cause of action.  (Id.)
Plaintiff alleges Defendants each entered into contractual agreements
with TCS which obligated them to protect the confidentiality of TCS’s
information, not to misuse that information, and to return TCS’s information
upon their separation from TCS. 
(Complaint ¶62.)  Plaintiff
alleges the agreements were valid and binding contracts.  (Complaint ¶63.)  Plaintiff alleges TCS performed all duties
required of it under the agreements. 
(Complaint ¶64.)  Plaintiff
alleges Defendants breached the agreements by taking for their personal use
and/or disclosing TCS confidential and proprietary information, and,
separately, by failing to return such information to TCS after their separation.  (Complaint ¶65.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants’ performance of
these contractual duties was not excused. 
(Complaint ¶66.)  
Plaintiff alleges as a direct and proximate result of Defendants’
breaches, TCS has suffered damage, in an amount to be proven at trial.  (Complaint ¶67.)  Plaintiff alleges further, TCS will continue
to be directly and proximately damaged and irreparably harmed if Defendants are
not enjoined from further violation of their contractual obligations to TCS.  (Complaint ¶67.)  Plaintiff alleges TCS does not have an
adequate remedy at law and will not be fully compensated for Defendants’
breaches without injunctive relief.  (Complaint ¶67.)  Plaintiff alleges it seeks injunctive relief,
including preliminary injunctive relief, requiring Defendants to not use,
return, and restore access to TCS’s documents and information.  (Complaint ¶68.)  Plaintiff alleges TCS also seeks monetary
damages in amount to be proven at trial, and reasonable attorney’s fees and
costs pursuant to the contracts. 
(Complaint ¶68.)
Plaintiff sufficiently alleges the general terms of Yoon’s
contract, which contains the material terms. 
(Complaint ¶62.)  Plaintiff
sufficiently alleges the alleged contract is written.  (See Complaint ¶32 [“A critical
feature of TCS’s security measures is TCS’s requirement that its employees who
have access to confidential or proprietary information must sign
agreements that require them to keep TCS’s information confidential and not to
use or disclose it for their own benefit.”], emphasis added.)
Accordingly, Yoon’s demurrer to the 1st cause of action is
overruled.
 
Breach of the Duty of Loyalty (2nd COA)
“The elements of a cause of action for breach of a duty of
loyalty, by analogy to a claim for breach of fiduciary duty, are as follows:
(1) the existence of a relationship giving rise to a duty of loyalty; (2) one
or more breaches of that duty; and (3) damage proximately caused by that
breach.”  (Huong Que, Inc. v. Luu (2007)
150 Cal.App.4th 400, 410.)  
“It is settled that a director or officer of a corporation may not
enter into a competing enterprise which cripples or injures the business of the
corporation of which he is an officer or director. An officer or director may
not seize for himself, to the detriment of his company, business opportunities
in the company’s line of activities which his company has an interest and prior
claim to obtain. In the event that he does seize such opportunities in
violation of his fiduciary duty, the corporation may claim for itself all
benefits so obtained.”  (Xum Speegle,
Inc. v. Fields (1963) 216 Cal.App.2d 546, 554, internal citations omitted.)    
Plaintiff alleges as employees of TCS, Defendants each owed TCS an
undivided duty of loyalty and as a result, Defendants were obligated to act
with the utmost good faith and in the best interest of TCS.  (Complaint ¶70.)  Plaintiff alleges it was entitled to place
its trust and confidence in Defendants and was entitled to expect Defendants to
act with the utmost good faith toward it in carrying out TCS’s business.  (Complaint ¶71.)  Plaintiff alleges it did rely on Defendants’
loyalty and integrity and faithful performance of their job duties and
responsibilities.  (Complaint ¶72.)  
Plaintiff alleges Defendants knowingly and willingly breached their
common law duties of loyalty to TCS and violated California Labor Code Section
2863.  (Complaint ¶74.)  Plaintiff alleges for example, Defendants
coordinated and timed their departures to inflict maximum harm on TCS. (Complaint
¶74.)  Plaintiff alleges they also
refused to disclose passwords and other vital information TCS needed to
log-into accounts, including TCS’ Instagram and TikTok accounts, both of which
were vital to TCS’ efforts to market and promote its products.  (Complaint ¶74.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants also changed
permissions on various files and deleted information from TCS’ systems all in a
coordinated effort to harm TCS prior to their departures.  (Complaint ¶74.)  
Plaintiff alleges as a direct and proximate result of Defendants’
breach of their duties of loyalty, TCS has been and is being harmed and faces
irreparable injury.  (Complaint ¶76.)  Plaintiff alleges TCS is entitled to and
hereby seeks damages, in an amount to be determined at trial, as well as
disgorgement by Defendants of the salary, benefits, and other forms of
remuneration paid to them during the time that they were, in secret, being
disloyal to TCS, and all profits they received or will receive as a result of
this disloyalty, in an amount to be determined at trial.  (Complaint ¶77.)  Plaintiff alleges TCS is further entitled to
injunctive relief against Defendants to remedy their past improper conduct and
prevent further irreparable harm to TCS. 
(Complaint ¶77.)
          Plaintiff
sufficiently alleges Yoon coordinated his departure with the other Defendants
in an effort to harm TCS.  (Complaint
¶¶2-8.) Plaintiff alleges On October 6, 2023, Yoon deleted 33 documents from
his TCS computer.  (Complaint ¶50(d)(i).)
 Plaintiff sufficiently alleges Yoon’s
taking and deletion of TCS information had no legitimate, TCS business reason.  (Complaint ¶¶49, 52.)  Plaintiff sufficiently alleges damages caused
by Yoon.  (Complaint ¶¶51, 53.)  Plaintiff alleges the deleted documents are
“extremely valuable,” and “TCS’s ability to conduct its business is impaired by
the lack of these documents.” (Complaint ¶52.)  These harms are directly linked to Yoon’s alleged
actions and are sufficient to plead harm arising from Defendant’s breach of the
duty of loyalty.  (Complaint ¶¶47(j), 49,
50(d), 51-53, 75-78.)
Accordingly, Yoon’s demurrer to the 2nd cause of action is
overruled.
 
Aiding and
Abetting Breach of the Duty of Loyalty & Breach of Fiduciary Duty (4th and
5th COAs)
The elements of a claim for aiding and abetting a third party to
commit an intentional tort are: “(1) a third party’s breach of fiduciary duties
owed to plaintiff; (2) defendant’s actual knowledge of that breach of fiduciary
duties; (3) substantial assistance or encouragement by defendant to the third
party’s breach; and (4) defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing
harm to plaintiff.” (Nasrawi v. Buck Consultants LLC (2014) 231
Cal.App.4th 328, 343; CACI 3610.)
Plaintiff alleges Defendants each provided substantial assistance,
support, and encouragement to the other Defendants in committing breaches of
their duties of loyalty, as described above. 
(Complaint ¶87.)  Plaintiff
alleges Defendants engaged in this bad conduct with full knowledge that the
other Defendants were still employed by TCS, and, therefore, owed duties of
loyalty to TCS, and that the acts and omissions alleged hereinabove were
unlawful and/or improper, and were in breach of such other Defendants’ duties
to TCS.  (Complaint ¶87.)  Plaintiff alleges the conduct of Defendants
was a substantial factor in causing the harm suffered by TCS as a result of the
breaches described above.  (Complaint
¶89.)  
Plaintiff alleges Defendants each provided substantial assistance,
support, and encouragement to Defendant Olive Kim in committing the breach of
fiduciary duty described above.  (Complaint ¶92.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants engaged in this
bad conduct with full knowledge that Defendant Olive Kim was still employed by
TCS as the Co-CEO of TCS, and, therefore, owed fiduciary duties to TCS, and
that her acts and omissions alleged hereinabove were unlawful and/or improper,
and were in breach of her duties to TCS. 
(Complaint ¶92.)  Plaintiff
alleges the conduct of Defendants was a substantial factor in causing the harm
suffered by TCS as a result of the breaches described above.  (Complaint ¶94.)
Plaintiff sufficiently alleges Yoon aided and abetted other
employees’ breaches of the duty of loyalty by participating in the mass
resignation between October 6 and 13 and working “systematically” with other
employees to steal thousands of confidential and trade secret files.  (Complaint ¶¶2, 6.)
Accordingly, Yoon’s demurrer to the 4th and 5th causes of action
is overruled.
 
Trade Secret Misappropriation
Under California’s Uniform Trade Secret Act (“CUTSA”) (6th COA)
To state a claim for trade secret misappropriation under
California’s Uniform Trade Secret Act, a plaintiff must plead: “(1) the
plaintiff owned a trade secret, (2) the defendant acquired, disclosed, or used
the plaintiff’s trade secret through improper means, and (3) the defendant’s
actions damaged the plaintiff.”  (Sargent
Fletcher, Inc. v. Able Corp. (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1658, 1665, citations
omitted.)
A “trade secret” is “information, including a formula, pattern,
compilation, program, device, method, technique, or process, that: (1) Derives
independent economic value, actual or potential, from not being generally known
to the public or to other persons who can obtain economic value from its
disclosure or use; and (2) Is the subject of efforts that are reasonable under
the circumstances to maintain its secrecy.”  (Civ. Code §3426.1.)
Plaintiff alleges its trade secrets include Marketing,
Promotional, Sales, Financial and Operations Strategies: TCS has developed and
maintains strategies, policies, processes, playbooks, research, pricing
information, and analyses regarding its marketing, sales and operations.  (Complaint ¶27a.)  Plaintiff alleges its trade secrets include Design
and Product Development: TCS invests heavily in developing new products,
including licensing information, specifications, customer and market preferences,
and opportunities.  (Complaint
¶27b.)  Plaintiff alleges its trade
secrets include Long and Short Term Strategic Plans: TCS has developed and
continually updates both short and long term plans to increase its revenue,
expand or adjust its product line up, add or adjust licensed brands or artwork,
and expand its operations.  (Complaint
¶27c.)  Plaintiff alleges its trade
secrets include Financial Information: This information includes TCS’s cost of
goods sold, license fees paid, margins and other financial information that is
confidential.  (Complaint ¶27d.)  
Plaintiff alleges it owns and possesses trade secret information
as set forth above.  (Complaint ¶97.)  Plaintiff alleges its trade secret
information is highly valuable, and TCS will suffer irreparable harm from the
use and disclosure of its information, including loss of business and loss of
competitive advantage.  (Complaint
¶99.)  Plaintiff alleges computer
forensics reveal that on October 6, 2023 (the date effective date of Olive’s
resignation), Yoon used a USB device to create a number of sensitive TCS files
and folders.  (Complaint ¶47j.) Plaintiff
alleges Yoon misappropriated TCS’s trade secrets in the improper and unlawful
manner described above.  (Complaint
¶101.)  Plaintiff alleges Yoon had no
legitimate, TCS business reason to take this information.  (Complaint ¶101.)
Plaintiff alleges it had to spend “substantial amounts of time and
money” to determine the extent of Defendant’s conduct and the number of files
he deleted. (Complaint ¶51.)  Plaintiff
alleges it hired a third-party forensic investigator, which was necessary
because of Defendant’s conduct.  (Complaint ¶53.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendant’s actions continue
to cause harm.  (Complaint ¶103.)
Plaintiff sufficiently alleges the elements of a cause of action
under CUTSA.
Accordingly, Yoon’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s 6th cause of action is
overruled.
 
Computer Crimes in Violation of Penal Code §502(c) (7th COA)
A cause of action under the Comprehensive Computer Data
Access and Fraud Act (“CDAFA”) must
allege the following elements: (1) that plaintiff is the owner/lessee of the
computer, computer system, computer network, computer program, and/or data; (2)
defendant knowingly and without permission accessed or caused to be accessed
any computer, computer system, or computer network and knowingly accessed and
without permission added, altered, damaged, deleted, or destroyed any data,
computer software, or computer programs which reside or exist internal or
external to a computer, computer system, or computer network; (3) that
defendant’s conduct in violation of Pen. Code, § 502 was without plaintiff’s
permission; (4) plaintiff was harmed; and (5) defendant’s conduct was a
substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm. 
(CACI 1812.)
Plaintiff alleges Defendants violated California Penal Code
section 502 by unlawfully accessing, downloading, and then deleting information
from TCS’s secured systems and accounts. 
(Complaint ¶107.)  Plaintiff
alleges the actions taken by Defendants, as alleged above, were not authorized
by TCS and do not fall within the so-called scope of employment exception set
forth in Section 502(h).  (Complaint
¶110.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants were
acting solely for their personal benefit, and against the best interests of
TCS, when they committed this misconduct. 
(Complaint ¶111.)  Plaintiff
alleges Defendants have been unjustly enriched, TCS has been harmed, and Defendants
have sustained damages in an amount to be proven at trial.  (Complaint ¶113.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants’ acts and
conduct that constitute the commission of these computer crimes were carried
out willfully, fraudulently, maliciously, and with a wanton disregard of TCS’s
rights, thereby entitling TCS to punitive damages to be proven at trial.  (Complaint ¶113.)  Plaintiff alleges TCS also has suffered
irreparable harm as a result of Defendants’ activities and will continue to
suffer irreparable injury that cannot be adequately remedied at law unless
Defendants are enjoined from engaging in any further such acts.  (Complaint ¶114.)
Plaintiff sufficiently alleges a cause of action under CDAFA.  Plaintiff sufficiently alleges damages in the
form of spending considerable time and effort attempting to recovery the
documents Defendant deleted, “including hiring a third part forensic
investigator to try to recover the documents.”  (Complaint ¶53.)  Further, Yoon’s argument that CUTSA supersedes
the CDAFA is unavailing, as Civil Code §3426.7 expressly provides that CUTSA
does not supersede “any statute relating to misappropriation of a trade secret,
or any statute otherwise regulating trade secrets,” “other civil remedies that
are not based upon misappropriation of a trade secret” nor “criminal remedies,
whether or not based upon misappropriation of a trade secret.”  Here, Plaintiff alleges its CDAFA claim is
not predicated on the misappropriation or theft of any confidential, proprietary,
and/or trade secret information belonging to TCS, but rather on the
independently improper actions described above, including Defendants’ deletion
of information off of TCS’s computer systems.  (Complaint ¶112.)
Accordingly, Yoon’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s 7th cause of action is
overruled.
 
Receipt of Stolen Property (8th COA)
To state a claim for receipt of stolen property under Penal Code
§496, a party must allege, “(1) property was stolen or obtained in a manner
constituting theft, (2) the defendant knew the property was so stolen or
obtained, and (3) the defendant received or had possession of the stolen
property.”  (Siry Investment, L.P. v.
Farkhondehpour (2022) 13 Cal.5th 333, 354-355, citing Switzer v. Wood (2019)
35 Cal.App.5th 116, 126.)
Plaintiff alleges the actions taken by Defendants, as alleged
above, which included the withholding of passwords and other critical
information needed to log into various accounts, and refusing to return certain
devices belonging to TCS, constitute a violation of Penal Code §496(a).  (Complaint ¶118.)  Plaintiff alleges this claim is not
predicated on the misappropriation or theft of any confidential, proprietary,
and/or trade secret information belonging to TCS, but rather on the
independently improper actions described above. 
(Complaint ¶119.)  Plaintiff
alleges TCS has been injured/damaged in an amount to be proven at trial.
(Complaint ¶120.)  Plaintiff alleges TCS
is also entitled to recover not only the actual damages suffered by TCS by
three times that amount pursuant to Section 496(c) in addition to reasonable
attorney’s fees and the costs of suit. 
(Complaint ¶120.)
Plaintiff alleges Yoon: (i) transferred sensitive TCS files and
folders to a USB device and deleted files; (ii) this was done without a
legitimate business purpose, especially in the days leading up to his
separation; and (iii) Yoon has not returned any of the files, despite requests
from TCS.  (Complaint ¶¶47(j)-49.)
Additionally, Plaintiff alleges Defendants worked together to steal TCS
computers and phones.  (Complaint ¶57.)
Plaintiff sufficiently alleges a cause of action under Penal Code §496.  Further, Penal Code §496 is not preempted by
CUTSA because Civil Code §3426.7 provides a carve out for criminal claims, whether
or not based upon misappropriation of a trade secret.  (Civ. Code §3426.7(b).)
Accordingly, Yoon’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s 8th cause of action is
overruled.
 
Conclusion
Yoon’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s 1st, 2nd, 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, and
8th causes of overruled.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
 
Dated:  February _____, 2024
                                                                             





  