 Case Number:  23STCV17682    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



NANCY KLOSOWSKI,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
MANHATTAN BEACH UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT, et al.,  
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


23STCV17682




Hearing Date:


November 9, 2023




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




TENTATIVE RULING
  RE:
 
CCP
  § 425.16
  ANTI-SLAPP SPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKE PLAINTIFFS’ SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT;
  REQUEST FOR ATTORNEYS' FEES IN THE AMOUNT OF $4,400



            
Background 
On
July 27, 2023, Plaintiff Nancy Klosowski (“Plaintiff”) filed this instant
action against Defendants Manhattan Beach Unified School District (the
“District”) and Tom Stekol (“Stekol”) (jointly, “Defendants”).
On
September 27, 2023, Plaintiff submitted a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”)
alleging causes of action for (1) age discrimination, (2) hostile work
environment, (3) failure to prevent discrimination and harassment, (4)
intentional infliction of emotional distress, and (5) false imprisonment.[1] 
On
October 30, 2023, the Court issued a “Stipulation and Order Re: Filing of
Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint and Plaintiff’s Request for Punitive
Damages” in this matter. The October 30, 2023 Order provides, inter alia,
that “Based on the stipulation of the Parties, and good cause
being shown, it is hereby ORDERED, as follows: 1. That Plaintiff is granted
leave to file her SAC served on September 27, 2023, and that the SAC is deemed
filed September 27, 2023 pro nunc tunc. 2. That Plaintiff is only seeking
punitive damages against the individual defendant, and not the District.” 
Defendants now specially move to strike the entire SAC pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16. Defendants
also seek attorneys’ fees. Plaintiff opposes. 
Discussion
A.   
Allegations of the SAC 
In the SAC, Plaintiff
alleges that she has been an employee of the District for 29 years, “holding
her most recent position as Supervisor for the last ten years.” (SAC, ¶ 14.) 
Plaintiff alleges that “[b]eginning
in the Fall of 2021, [Plaintiff] was repeatedly asked by employees of the
District when she planned to retire from the District to which she responded
that she did not know.” (SAC, ¶ 19.) “On April 13, 2022, out of the blue,
Stekol placed Plaintiff on a paid administrative leave of absence without any
explanation whatsoever.” (SAC, ¶ 20.) “From that time until the end of the
school year in late June, Plaintiff was told by the District to stay at home
and not return to work.” (SAC, ¶ 20.) Plaintiff alleges that “[i]t was later
learned that the basis of placing Plaintiff on administrative leave was that a
student had made accusations against [Plaintiff].” (SAC, ¶ 20.) Plaintiff
alleges that “[t]he idea that someone such as the Plaintiff could be credibly
accused of any type of misconduct, let alone sexual misconduct, is ludicrous.
The allegations made against Plaintiff were used as a pre-text by the
Defendants to push the Plaintiff out.” (SAC, ¶ 16.) 
Plaintiff was informed by Stekol that the District would be performing
an investigation. (SAC, ¶ 21.) Plaintiff alleges that “[t]he Defendant was
going to perform an investigation, after they had already made a police report.
However, a replacement was immediately named on the District website who was
substantially younger than the Plaintiff.” (SAC, ¶ 21, emphasis omitted.) Plaintiff
alleges that “[d]espite having already hired someone to replace her, [the
District] tortured the Plaintiff over the next six weeks forcing her to ponder
her fate. She was told to sit in a windowless, empty office, from 7:00 a.m.
until 3:30 p.m, without any work and she was not allowed to leave.” (SAC, ¶
21.) Plaintiff alleges that “she was never interviewed as part of any purported
investigation; never offered an opportunity to provide any explanation if one
was even necessary.” (SAC, ¶ 21, emphasis omitted.) 
“On September 7, 2022 Plaintiff was provided a Notice of Recommended
Discipline of Dismissal and a Statement of Charges and advised of her right to
a Skelly hearing.” (SAC, ¶ 22.) “Prior to the conduct of the hearing Stekol
advised Plaintiff that he would find against her at the Skelly hearing and that
the appeal process is merely a rubber stamp of his decision. He also advised
Plaintiff that if she was terminated for cause, she would lose her retirement
benefits from the District where she worked for almost thirty years.” (SAC, ¶
22.) Plaintiff alleges that “[b]ased upon the intolerable conditions that she
was being placed under, and the inevitability of the decision against her,
Plaintiff had no choice but to involuntarily resign her position. Plaintiff was
never provided the results of any purported investigation.” (SAC, ¶ 22.) 
B.    
Legal Standard 
The anti-SLAPP statute is “a mechanism through which complaints
that arise from the exercise of free speech rights can be evaluated at an early
stage of the litigation process and resolved expeditiously.” (Simmons v. Allstate Ins. Co. (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1073 [internal
quotations omitted].)
Courts use a two-step process for determining whether an action is a strategic
lawsuit against public participation, or a SLAPP. First, the court determines
whether the defendant has established that the challenged claim arises from
protected speech. (Equilon Enterprises v.
Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29
Cal.4th 53, 67.) If
such a showing has been made, the court “determines whether the plaintiff has
demonstrated a probability of prevailing on the claim.” (Ibid.)
 
i.       
Prong One – Arising from Protected Activity
“[T]he only thing the defendant needs to establish to invoke the
protection of the SLAPP statute is that the challenged lawsuit arose from an
act on the part of the defendant in furtherance of her right of petition or
free speech.” (Fox Searchlight Pictures,
Inc. v. Paladino (2001) 89
Cal.App.4th 294, 307.)           
An act in furtherance of a person’s right of petition or free speech
includes the following:
 
(1)
any written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative, executive,
or judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (2)
any written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under
consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any
other official proceeding authorized by law, (3) any written or oral statement
or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum in connection
with an issue of public interest, or (4) any other conduct in furtherance of
the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the constitutional
right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of public
interest.
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 425.16, subd. (e).)
In determining whether a cause of action arises from protected conduct,
the court focuses on “the allegedly wrongful and injury-producing conduct that
provides the foundation for the claims.” (Castleman
v. Sagaser (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th
481, 490-491.)
“[T]he critical consideration is whether the cause of action is based
on the defendant’s protected free speech or petitioning activity.” (Navellier v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 89 (emphasis in original).) In making this determination, the Court considers “the pleadings, and
supporting and opposing affidavits stating the facts upon which the liability
or defense is based.” (Ibid.) “The
anti-SLAPP statute should be broadly construed and a plaintiff cannot avoid
operation of the anti-SLAPP statute by attempting, through artifices of
pleading, to characterize an action as a garden variety tort claim when in fact
the liability claim is predicated on protected speech or conduct.” (Ramona
Unified School Dist. v. Tsiknas (2005)
135 Cal.App.4th 510, 519 [internal citations omitted].)
In the instant motion, Defendants
cite to Jeffra v. California State Lottery (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th
471, 474, where “Plaintiff
James Thomas Jeffra was
an investigator employed by defendant California State Lottery. He sued defendant, alleging
retaliation in violation of the California Whistleblower
Protection Act…He alleged defendant engaged in a pretextual investigation,
ultimately forcing him to retire, after he filed a whistleblower complaint with
the California State Auditor. Defendant filed an anti-SLAPP
(strategic lawsuit against public participation) motion to strike the complaint
(Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16), contending the
complaint arose from protected activity, namely, defendant’s investigation of
possible misconduct by plaintiff. The trial court denied the motion, finding
the complaint arose from non-protected retaliation, not protected
investigations.” (Internal citations omitted.) The Court of Appeal in Jeffra “conclude[d]…that
plaintiff’s complaint arose from protected activity.” (Id.
at p. 475.) 
The Jeffra Court noted that “Defendant points out
that its investigation of plaintiff was the allegedly adverse employment action
at the heart of plaintiff’s complaint, and we cannot disagree: the
investigation was the ‘wrong complained of’—the adverse action that supplies a
necessary element of plaintiff’s retaliation claim. And the other adverse
actions (plaintiff’s administrative leave and his forced retirement) are
inextricably tied to the investigation; plaintiff could not omit reference to
the investigation and still have a retaliation claim. Thus, if plaintiff’s
complaint arises from the investigation—as it surely does, as that is the very
wrong complained of—and if the investigation falls within one or more of the
four categories of acts protected by the anti-SLAPP statute, defendant has
satisfied its initial burden. That is the case here.” (Jeffra v.
California State Lottery, supra,
39 Cal.App.5th at p. 482.) The Jeffra Court further noted
that “Defendant correctly asserts the
investigation was protected activity under section
425.16, subdivision (e)(2) (‘any written or oral statement or writing made
in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a legislative,
executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding authorized by
law’). The authorities support the proposition that an internal
investigation by a state-created
entity is an ‘official proceeding authorized by law.’…Although [the
plaintiff] was never formally charged with misconduct or a crime,
communications preparatory to or in anticipation of the bringing of an official
proceeding are within the protection of section 425.16….”
(Id. at pp. 482-483 [internal citations omitted].) 
Defendants
also cite to Hansen v. Department of Corrections
& Rehabilitation (2008) 171
Cal.App.4th 1537, 1541, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[w]hile
appellant, Douglas R. Hansen, was employed by respondent, California’s Department of Corrections and
Rehabilitation (CDCR), as a vocational instructor at the Correctional Custody
Institution (CCI), CDCR’s Office of Internal Affairs began an investigation
into allegations that Hansen had engaged in misconduct and criminal activity.
The alleged criminal activity included violations of Penal
Code section 289.6, subdivision (a)(3) (prohibits sexual activity with inmates)
and Penal Code section 4570 (prohibits unauthorized
communications with inmates). Shortly thereafter, Hansen retired from state
service. Nevertheless, the investigation continued, engendering a warrant to
search Hansen’s residence. CDCR agents, accompanied by the local police,
executed the warrant, searched the residence, and seized several items.
However, no criminal charges were ever filed. Based on CDCR’s act of continuing
the investigation after his retirement, Hansen filed a complaint alleging that
CDCR took retaliatory action against him as a whistleblower in violation of Labor Code section 1102.5...” 
The Court of Appeal in Hansen found that “Hansen’s complaint is based on statements and writings CDCR
personnel made during the internal investigation and in securing the search
warrant. The search warrant affidavit constituted a writing made before a
judicial proceeding. Accordingly, those statements fall under section 425.16, subdivision (e)(1).” (Hansen v.
Department of Corrections & Rehabilitation, supra, 171 Cal.App.4th at p. 1544.) The Hansen
Court further noted that “the internal investigation itself was an official proceeding
authorized by law…Thus, the objected-to statements and writings, i.e., the allegedly
false reports of criminal activity, were made in connection with an issue under
consideration by an authorized official proceeding and thus constitute
protected activity under section 425.16, subdivision
(e)(2). Although Hansen was never formally charged with misconduct or a
crime, communications preparatory to or in anticipation of the bringing of an
official proceeding are within the protection of section
425.16.” (Id. at p. 1544.) 
Defendants argue that here, “[m]uch like the plaintiffs in Jeffra
and Hansen, Defendants’ report to law enforcement and subsequent
investigation of Plaintiff are the alleged adverse employment actions at the
heart of her complaint. Indeed, Plaintiff claims the investigation was wrong,
and her administrative leave and purportedly forced resignation are
inextricably tied to the investigation.” (Mot. at p. 15:21-25.) Defendants
assert that Plaintiff cannot omit reference to the investigation and the
subsequent results, and still have viable claims for age discrimination,
hostile work environment, failure to prevent discrimination/harassment, IIED,
or false imprisonment.” (Mot. at p. 15:26-28.)
Defendants cite to paragraph 16 of the SAC, in which Plaintiff
alleges, inter alia, that “[t]he idea that someone such as the Plaintiff
could be credibly accused of any type of misconduct, let alone sexual
misconduct, is ludicrous. The allegations made against Plaintiff were used as a
pre-text by the Defendants to push the Plaintiff out.” (SAC, ¶ 16.) Defendants
also cite to paragraphs 19-23 of the SAC. In paragraph 20 of the SAC, Plaintiff
alleges, inter alia, that “[i]t was later learned that the basis of
placing Plaintiff on administrative leave was that a student had made
accusations against [Plaintiff].” (SAC, ¶ 20.) Plaintiff alleges that “[t]he
Defendant was going to perform an investigation, after they had already made a
police report.” (SAC, ¶ 21.) 
In addition, Defendants
cite to the supporting Declaration of Tom Stekol. (Mot. at p. 15:21.) Stekol is
currently employed by the District as Assistant Superintendent of Human
Resources. (Stekol Decl., ¶ 2.) Stekol states that “[d]uring the week of
April 4-8, 2022, I became aware of a report of suspected child abuse made to
the Manhattan Beach Police Department (‘MBPD’) against the plaintiff…” (Stekol
Decl., ¶4.) “On or about May 9, 2022, [Stekol] learned that the Los Angeles
County Sheriff’s Department had taken over the investigation…” (Stekol Decl., ¶
6.) “On or about June 28, 2022, [Stekol] learned from [Los Angeles County
Sheriff’s Detective Alexandra Panzone] that [Plaintiff] had been charged with
violations of Penal Code sections 288(c)(l)-Lewd
Act on a Child, and 647.6(a)­ Annoying or Molesting a Child. But she also
informed [Stekol] that the District Attorney’s Office had decided there was not
enough evidence to file the case.” (Stekol Decl., ¶ 8.) Stekol states that he
“decided it was necessary to conduct an investigation into the allegations made
against [Plaintiff] on the District’s behalf in order to determine whether her
conduct rose to a level of misconduct that justified disciplinary action.”
(Stekol Decl., ¶ 10.) Stekol further states that “[c]onsistent with the
requirements of Administrative Regulation 4218, on or about September 7, 2022,
I provided [Plaintiff] ‘Notice of Recommended Discipline; Dismissal-Statement
of Charges.’” (Stekol Decl., ¶ 15.) Stekol states that “[a]fter providing
notice to [Plaintiff], I spoke with her and her attorney about the charges.
After further discussions, we agreed that the Disciplinary Notice issued to [Plaintiff]
would be withdrawn in exchange for her resignation.” (Stekol Decl., ¶ 16.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiff argues that her claims do not arise from
protected activity.  Plaintiff asserts
that “[t]he District relies on two cases, Jeffra v.
Cal. State Lottery (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 471, 482-483, and Hansen v. Department of Corrections &
Rehabilitation (2008) 171 Cal.App.4th 1537, 1544. However, those cases
are not applicable because they involve communications made during those
proceedings. Again, this action has nothing to do with any of the alleged
statements made during the investigation. The SAC complains that the District
failed to interview the Plaintiff at all during the investigation and created
such a hostile work environment such as to constructively discharge the
Plaintiff.” (Opp’n at p. 6:12-17.) Plaintiff also asserts that “the Fifth Cause
of Action for False Imprisonment has nothing to do with the investigation at
all. That simply has to do with the way Plaintiff was treated while the
purported investigation was going on.” (Opp’n at p. 6:7-9.) 
Defendants do not appear to respond to these points in the reply. As
set forth above, the Hansen Court found that “Hansen’s
complaint is based on statements and writings CDCR personnel made during the
internal investigation and in securing the search warrant. The search warrant
affidavit constituted a writing made before a judicial proceeding. Accordingly,
those statements fall under section 425.16, subdivision (e)(1).” (Hansen v. Department of
Corrections & Rehabilitation, supra, 171 Cal.App.4th at p. 1544.)
As discussed, Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16, subdivision (e) provides that “[a]s used in this section, ‘act in furtherance of a
person’s right of petition or free speech under the United States or California
Constitution in connection with a public issue’ includes: (1) any written or
oral statement or writing made before a legislative, executive, or judicial
proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (2) any
written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under
consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any
other official proceeding authorized by law, (3) any written or oral
statement or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum in
connection with an issue of public interest, or (4) any other conduct in
furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the
constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an
issue of public interest.” (Emphasis
added.) 
Here, Defendants
cite to legal authority indicating that “[t]he
authorities support the proposition that an internal investigation by a
state-created entity is an ‘official proceeding authorized by law.’” (Jeffra v. California State Lottery, supra, 39 Cal.App.5th at p. 482, citing Hansen v. Department of Corrections & Rehabilitation,
supra, 171 Cal.App.4th at p. 1544.) However, Defendants do not appear to
point to any allegations in the SAC of any “written or oral statement or
writing made before…[an] official proceeding authorized by law,” or any
“written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under
consideration or review by…[an] official proceeding authorized by law…” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subds.
(e)(1)-(2).)[2] 
In addition, to the extent Defendants are relying on Plaintiff’s
allegation that “Defendant was going to perform an investigation, after
they had already made a police report,” (SAC, ¶ 21, emphasis added); the
Court does not find that Defendants have shown that such allegation supplies a
necessary element of any of Plaintiff’s causes of action. “[T]he defendant’s first-step burden is to identify the
activity each challenged claim rests on and demonstrate that that activity is
protected by the anti-SLAPP statute. A claim may be struck only if the speech
or petitioning activity itself is
the wrong complained of, and not just evidence of liability or a step leading
to some different act for which liability is asserted. To determine whether a
claim arises from protected activity, courts must consider the elements of
the challenged claim and what actions by the defendant supply those elements
and consequently form the basis for liability. The court then evaluates
whether the defendant has shown any of these actions fall within one or more of
the four categories of act[s] protected by the anti-SLAPP statute.” (Jeffra v. California State Lottery, supra,
39 Cal.App.5th at pages 481-482 [internal quotations and citations omitted,
emphasis in original].) 
In the first cause of action for age
discrimination, Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, that “her age of
sixty-five (65) years old was a substantial motivating factor that Defendants
considered when deciding to embark on the course of action described herein and
treat her differently in the terms, conditions or privileges of employment than
other younger employees. At all material times described herein, Plaintiff was
treated differently than similarly situated younger employees and/or otherwise
subjected to unlawful discriminatory employment practices as prohibited by the
laws of California.” (SAC, ¶ 28.) 
In the second cause of action for harassment/hostile work environment,
Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, that “Plaintiff had the protected status
under the FEHA as stated above. Plaintiff had a protected status based her age
and as a female employee,” and that “[a]s a direct, legal, and proximate cause
of Plaintiff’s aforementioned protected status, described hereinabove,
Defendants discriminated against, harassed and retaliated against Plaintiff
including, but not limited to, the following ways: Employer hired and/or
assigned employees, who did not have Plaintiffs protected status, to assume the
duties and responsibilities that Plaintiff had; the employees that Employer
hired to assume the duties and responsibilities that Plaintiff had were not as
qualified as Plaintiff to assume those duties and responsibilities.” (SAC, ¶¶
40, 43.) In the third cause of action for failure to prevent discrimination and
harassment, Plaintiff alleges that the District “failed to take all reasonable
steps to prevent the discrimination and harassment to which Plaintiff was
subjected based upon her age.” (SAC, ¶ 59.) 
In the fourth cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress, Plaintiff alleges that “[a]s a result of Defendants extreme and
outrageous conduct described herein, Plaintiff sustained severe emotional
distress.” (SAC, ¶ 69.) In the fifth cause of action for false imprisonment,
Plaintiff alleges that “Defendant Stekol on multiple occasions intentionally
deprived Plaintiff of her freedom of movement by use of physical barriers
and/or force and/or threats of force and/or menace,” and that “[t]he restraint
and/or confinement of Plaintiff compelled Plaintiff to stay in the places of
restraint and/or confinement for an appreciable time.” (SAC, ¶¶ 74-75.)
The Court does not find that Defendants have demonstrated that any of
these causes of action arise from any “written or
oral statement or writing made before… any other official proceeding authorized
by law,” or any “written or oral statement or writing made in connection with
an issue under consideration or review by…any other official proceeding
authorized by law…” (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subds. (e)(1)-(2).)¿
ii.     
Prong Two –
Probability of Prevailing 
Because the Court finds that Defendants have failed to
establish that Plaintiff’s causes of action arise from protected activity, the
burden does not shift to Plaintiff to establish that there is a probability of
prevailing on the causes of action.   
C.    
Requests for
Attorney’s Fees 
Defendants state that they “seek $4,400 in
attorney’s fees for having to bring this motion.” (Mot. at p. 23:3-4.) In the
opposition, Plaintiff asserts that “[t]he motion should be denied and Plaintiff
award [sic] her attorney fees in opposing the motion.” (Opp’n at p. 2:17-18.)
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16, subdivision (c)(1), “[e]xcept as provided in paragraph (2), in any action
subject to subdivision (b), a prevailing defendant on a special motion to
strike shall be entitled to recover that defendant’s attorney’s fees and costs.
If the court finds that a special motion to strike is frivolous or is solely
intended to cause unnecessary delay, the court shall award costs and reasonable
attorney’s fees to a plaintiff prevailing on the motion, pursuant to Section 128.5.”

As
Defendants did not prevail on the instant motion, the Court denies their
request for attorney’s fees. In addition, the Court finds
that the instant motion was neither frivolous nor intended to cause unnecessary
delay. Therefore, the Court declines to award Plaintiff attorney’s fees. 
Conclusion 
Based on the foregoing, the Court denies Defendants’
special motion to strike.  
Defendants are ordered to give notice of this Order. 
 
DATED:  November 9, 2023                          
________________________________
Hon. Rolf M.
Treu 
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


