  Case Number:  20STCV27361    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles 
Department 50
 




MATTHEW PORPORA,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
HORRIGAN COLE ENTERPRISES, INC., dba
  COLE VOCATIONAL SERVICES, CO., et
  al.
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


20STCV27361




Hearing Date:


November 9, 2023




Hearing
  Time:    10:00 a.m. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
  RE:
 
DEFENDANT’S AMENDED MOTION 
FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 




            
 
 
Background
On July 21, 2020, Plaintiff Matthew Porpora (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against, inter alia, Defendant Horrigan Cole Enterprises, Inc. dba
Cole Vocational Services, Co. (“CVS”). Plaintiff’s Complaint asserts
causes of action for (1) violation of Health and Safety
Code section 1432, (2) violation of Health and
Safety Code section 1278.5, (3) violation of Labor
Code section 1102.5, and (4) wrongful termination in violation of public
policy. 
On April 7, 2022, Plaintiff filed an amendment to the Complaint naming
National Mentor Healthcare, LLC in place of “Doe 1.” On November 2, 2022,
Plaintiff filed an amendment to the Complaint naming National Mentor Holdings,
LLC in place of “Doe 2.” On November 2, 2022, Plaintiff also filed an amendment
to the Complaint naming National Mentor Holdings, Inc. in place of “Doe 3.” 
Defendants National
Mentor Healthcare, LLC (“NMH”), National Mentor Holdings, Inc. (“NMHI”), and National Mentor Holdings, LLC (“NMHL”)
(collectively, the “NM
Defendants”) now move for summary
adjudication one the first and second causes of action, and on claims for punitive
damages and attorney fees. Plaintiff opposes. 
Requests for Judicial Notice 
The
Court grants the NM Defendants’ request for judicial notice.  
 The Court grants Plaintiff’s request for
judicial notice as to Exhibits “A,” “C,” and “D.” The Court denies Plaintiff’s
request for judicial notice as to Exhibit “B.” 
Evidentiary Objections
            The Court rules on Plaintiff’s
evidentiary objections as follows[1]: 
            Objection No. 1: overruled
            Objection No. 2: overruled
            Objection No. 3: overruled
            Objection No. 4: overruled
            Objection No. 5: overruled
            Objection No. 6: overruled
            Objection No. 7: overruled
            Objection No. 8: overruled
            Objection No. 9: overruled 
            Objection No. 10: overruled
            Objection No. 11: overruled
            Objection No. 12: overruled
            Objection No. 13: overruled
            Objection No. 14: overruled
            Objection No. 15: overruled
            Objection No. 16: overruled
            Objection No. 17: overruled
            Objection No. 18: overruled
            Objection No. 19: overruled
            Objection No. 20: overruled
            Objection No. 21: overruled
            Objection No. 22: overruled 
The Court rules on the NM Defendants’ evidentiary objection as
follows: 
Objection No. 1: sustained 
            Legal Standard
“[A] motion for summary
judgment shall be granted if all the papers submitted show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
a judgment as a matter of law.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c (c).) “A party may move for summary
adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more
affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of
duty, if the party contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there
is no affirmative defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a
claim for damages, as specified in¿Civil Code section
3294, or that one or more defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to
the plaintiff or plaintiffs.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c(f)(1).)¿“A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it
completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for
damages, or an issue of duty.” (Ibid.)¿
The moving party bears the initial burden of
production to make a¿prima facie¿showing that there are no triable issues of
material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)
If the moving party carries this burden, the burden shifts to the opposing
party to make a prima facie showing that a triable issue of material fact
exists. (Ibid.)¿Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party
opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor
of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿
When a defendant seeks summary judgment¿or
summary adjudication, he/she must show¿either¿(1) that one or more elements of
the cause of action cannot be established;¿or¿(2) that there is a complete
defense to that cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c(p)(2).)¿
Discussion
A.    Allegations of the
Complaint
Plaintiff alleges that
he commenced his employment with defendants on June 30, 2015 as a program director.
(Compl., ¶ 6.) On or about July 20, 2018, a program participant with
developmental disabilities was being assisted by staff members at CVS, and fell,
hitting his head and sustaining a cut and bruising. (Compl., ¶ 8.) At
approximately 11:40 a.m., Plaintiff called the program participant’s house
manager explaining the situation and informing her that he was going to call
emergency services in accordance with company policy. (Compl., ¶ 8.) At
approximately 11:45 a.m., the house manager asked Plaintiff not to call
emergency services, as her supervisor advised that the house would pick up the program
participant and transport him to the emergency room. (Compl., ¶ 8.) Plaintiff
immediately called his supervisor, Justin Villarreal (“Villarreal”), to notify
him of the foregoing. (Compl., ¶ 8.) Villarreal told Plaintiff to do as the
house manager had instructed him, despite the fact that company procedures
required him to call emergency services. (Compl., ¶ 8.) 
Several days later on July 24, 2018, another individual suffered a head
injury at the facility, which appeared more severe than the previous incident
on July 20, 2018. (Compl., ¶ 9.)  Plaintiff felt he should call 911 in
accordance with company policy. (Compl., ¶ 9.) Plaintiff had been previously
directed to report any health and safety concerns to his supervisor. (Compl., ¶
9.) Plaintiff spoke to Villarreal (Plaintiff’s supervisor), as Plaintiff had
been directed to do, and Villarreal instructed Plaintiff not to call 911,
stating “if it didn’t happen at program, it’s not our problem.” (Compl., ¶ 9.) 
Plaintiff felt his supervisor’s directive was wrong and he spoke to
another supervisor on scene about the incident and Villarreal’s order not to
call 911. (Compl., ¶ 10.) The second supervisor agreed with Villarreal’s
decision. (Compl., ¶ 10.) Plaintiff alleges he was terminated on July 30, 2018,
for not following company policy (not calling 911), notwithstanding his
supervisor’s directive not to do. (Compl., ¶ 13.) 
B.    
Causes of Action for Violation of Health and Safety Code Sections 1278.5 and 1432
The NM Defendants contend that that
Plaintiff’s Health and Safety Code causes of action do not apply to entities
such as the NM Defendants. In
the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges that “[t]he discriminatory and retaliatory
actions of Defendants, including but not limited to terminating Plaintiff from
Plaintiffs employment,” were based on violations of Health
and Safety Code sections 1278.5 and 1432, and constitute unlawful violations
of these statutes. (Compl., ¶¶ 23, 31.)
With regard to the
second cause of action, under Health and Safety Code
section 1278.5, subdivision (b)(1), “[a] health facility
shall not discriminate or retaliate, in any
manner, against a patient,
employee, member of the medical staff, or other health care worker of the
health facility because that person has done either of the following: (A) Presented
a grievance, complaint, or report to the facility, to an entity or agency
responsible for accrediting or evaluating the facility, or the medical staff of
the facility, or to any other governmental entity. (B)
Has initiated, participated, or cooperated in an investigation or
administrative proceeding related to the quality of care, services, or
conditions at the facility that is carried out by an entity or agency
responsible for accrediting or evaluating the facility or its medical staff, or
governmental entity.” Pursuant
to Health and Safety Code section 1278.5, subdivision
(b)(2), “[a]n entity that
owns or operates a health facility, or that owns or operates any other health
facility, shall not discriminate or retaliate against a person because that
person has taken any actions pursuant to this subdivision.” 
The NM Defendants note that for purposes of Health
and Safety Code section 1278.5, “‘health
facility’ means a facility
defined under this chapter, including, but not limited to, the facility’s
administrative personnel, employees, boards, and committees of the board, and
medical staff.”  (Health &
Saf. Code, § 1278.5, subd. (i).) Health and Safety Code section 1250 provides that “[a]s used in this chapter, ‘health facility’ means a
facility, place, or building that is organized, maintained, and operated for the
diagnosis, care, prevention, and treatment of human illness, physical or
mental, including convalescence and rehabilitation and including care during
and after pregnancy, or for any one or more of these purposes, for one or more
persons, to which the persons are admitted for a 24-hour stay or longer, and
includes the following types…”
            With regard to the first cause of
action, Health and Safety Code section 1432, subdivision (a) provides that “[n]o licensee shall
discriminate or retaliate in any manner against any complainant, or any patient or employee in its
long-term health care facility, on the basis or
for the reason that the complainant, patient, employee, or any other
person has presented a grievance or complaint, or has initiated or cooperated
in any investigation or proceeding of any governmental entity relating to care,
services, or conditions at that facility…” Health
and Safety Code section 1418, subdivision (a) provides that “[a]s used in this chapter: (a) ‘Long-term
health care facility’ means any facility licensed pursuant to Chapter 2
(commencing with Section 1250) that is any of the
following: (1) Skilled nursing facility. (2) Intermediate care facility. (3)
Intermediate care facility/developmentally disabled. (4) Intermediate care
facility/developmentally disabled habilitative. (5) Intermediate care
facility/developmentally disabled-nursing. (6) Congregate living health
facility. (7) Nursing facility. (8) Intermediate care facility/developmentally
disabled-continuous nursing.” 
The NM Defendants
assert that they are not “health facilities” as defined in Health and Safety Code Sections 1278.5 and 1250 nor
are they “long-term health care facilities” as defined in Health and Safety Code Section 1418. The NM Defendants
provide evidence that “NMH is not
an Adult Day Program, a hospital, a nursing facility, or any type of short term
or long term health facility that is operated for the diagnosis, care,
prevention, and treatment of human illness, physical or mental, for one or more
persons when they are admitted for 24-hour stays or longer.” (Castillo Decl., ¶ 4.) The NM Defendants indicate that “NMH
supports organizations across the country that provide home and community-based
care services to adults and children with intellectual and developmental
disabilities, individuals with complex care needs, people recovering from brain
injury, children in foster care, adults and children with autism, and other
individuals who may require care across a lifetime. NMH employees, including
Area Directors, Regional Directors, and Quality Improvement Specialists…provide
support and consultative services to the organizations across the country, including
but not limited to, training and the provision of policy manuals and other
documents.” (Castillo Decl., ¶ 3.) 
The NM Defendants also
provide evidence that neither NMHL and NMHI “own or operate a hospital in
California, a nursing facility in California, or any type of short term or long
term health facility that is operated for the diagnosis, care, prevention, and
treatment of human illness, physical or mental, for one or more persons when
they are admitted for 24-hour stays or longer in California.” (Blair Decl., ¶
3.) The NM Defendants states that “CVS and NMH are sister companies that share
the same corporate parent, National Mentor LLC. Further, Defendants National
Mentor Holdings, LLC (‘NMHL’) is the parent corporation of National Mentor LLC,
and National Mentor Holdings, Inc. (‘NMHI’) is the parent corporation of NMHL.”
(Blair Decl., ¶ 2.) 
In the opposition,
Plaintiff asserts that “[t]he evidence shows…that NMH operates long term
healthcare facilities, utilizing nurses and other healthcare workers, on a more
than 24 hours basis and is a covered ‘health facility.’” (Opp’n at p.
13:27-14:1.) 
Plaintiff cites to the
following testimony from the deposition of Jordin Anderson[2]: 
“Q Okay. How about REM California? A Yes, REM California. I have two REM homes,
yes. Q Okay. What’s the services provided by REM homes that you -- A Group that
I -- that I support? Q Yeah. A Group homes. Two group homes. Q Group homes? Do
these individuals stay there overnight? A Yes.” (Galvan Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. 2
(Anderson Depo.) at p. 23:14-24.) Ms. Anderson was asked, “[d]o you have any
nurses/LVNs at these facilities?” to which she responded, “Consultants, yes.” (Id. at p. 24:3-5.) 
Plaintiff also cites to
the following testimony from Ms. Anderson’s deposition: “Okay. And is there any
facility that you’re aware of that National Mentor Healthcare provides
support for that provides medical care
for a patient?...A Yes, we have two homes, one in Diamond Bar and one in
Claremont, that I am a part of that do. Q What -- A They’re called ARFPSHN
homes. Q I’m sorry. What are they? A Adult Residential Facilities for Persons
with Special Healthcare Needs. Q And do they stay at that facility 24 hours a
day? A Yes. Q Okay. And what type of legal—I’m sorry. What type of medical
support -- medical services are offered at those facilities? A LVN support,
respiratory therapist support, RN support. Q Do doctors come on site
occasionally? A Occasionally, yes.” (Galvan Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. 2 (Anderson Depo.)
at pp. 26:2-27:3.) Plaintiff also cites to the following testimony from Ms.
Anderson’s deposition: “Q Okay. And there’s other regional directors that
supervise or provide services for other facilities in California; correct? A
Correct.” (Id. at p. 30:17-20.) 
Plaintiff also cites to
the following testimony from the deposition of Tammi Castillo[3]: “Q
And what types of facilities did you provide support for? A The day programs,
which are a building that have -- that people come to on a daily basis, Monday
through Friday. Then there are homes, as well, where some of the individuals we
support live early intervention where our staff go out to the family home, and
our family home services where individuals will live in family homes that we --
our staff coaches support. Q So I’m so sorry. What is that called? Individual
family homes? A Yes. Q Okay. And which one of these are 24-hour care
facilities? A It would be the homes where they live. It’s called an adult
residential facility where our staff are there 24/7. Q Okay. And are there
medical providers at those facilities? Like, doctors and things like that? A
No. Q Okay. Is there nurses or LPNs? 2 A In some of the locations, yes.” (Galvan
Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. 8 (Castillo Depo.) at pp. 29:5-30:2.) Plaintiff also cites to
the following testimony from Ms. Castillo’s deposition: “Q Okay. And does
National own Corrigan Cole Vocational or Horrigan Cole?...A National is the
governing or the managing entity.” (Id. at pp.
83:22-84:1.) 
In the reply, the NM
Defendants assert that the foregoing evidence “merely implies that NMH
partnered with entities that allegedly qualify as health facilities and does
not create a disputed fact as to whether NMH itself is [sic] ‘health facility’
as required by Health & Safety Code §§ 1278.5 and
1432.” (Reply at p. 4:8-11.) The NM Defendants state that “Plaintiff does
not offer any evidence to support the conclusion that NMH owned
or is licensed to operate a health facility pursuant to the Health & Safety
Code. Instead, Plaintiff’s evidence, at its best, only suggests that NMH
provided support services to health facilities, which California Courts have
routinely held to not mean they should be qualified as a health facility.”
(Reply at p. 4:12-15.)  
The NM Defendants cite
to St.
Myers v. Dignity Health (2019) 44 Cal.App.5th
301, 305, where “Plaintiff Carla St. Myers worked as a nurse practitioner at
a rural clinic that was part of a medical center owned and operated by
defendant Dignity Health. During the three years she worked there, she
submitted over 50 complaints about working conditions and was also the subject
of several investigations based on anonymous complaints. All the investigations
concluded the complaints against St. Myers were unsubstantiated and no action
was taken against her. She found another job and resigned. Claiming her resignation was a
constructive termination due to intolerable working conditions, St. Myers sued
Dignity Health and Optum360 Services, Inc.; the latter was a company that
provided revenue cycle services to Dignity Health.” 
In St. Myers, Court of
Appeal found that “St. Myers’s contention has
no merit. She asserts Optum360 is a health facility because it operates MTMC by
managing and influencing day-to-day operations. A ‘health facility’ under this
statute ‘means a facility defined under this chapter, including, but not
limited to, the facility’s administrative personnel, employees, boards, and
committees of the board, and medical staff.’ (§ 1278.5,
subd. (i).) Chapter 2 of division 2 of the Health and Safety Code defines ‘health
facility’ as ‘a facility, place, or building that is organized, maintained, and
operated for the diagnosis, care, prevention, and treatment of human illness,
physical or mental, including convalescence and rehabilitation and including
care during and after pregnancy.’ (§ 1250.) The target defendant of section 1278.5 is the facility, here MTMC…Optum360
provided end-to-end revenue cycling services to MTMC. These services
included scheduling, patient registration, health information management in the
form of coding and transcription, billing, and collections. Optum360 provided
services to the front office staff; the office staff did not provide medical
care. No Optum360 staff worked onsite at MTMC. This evidence established
that Optum360 was a third party service provider to MTMC; it did not operate
MTMC. Optum360 provided ancillary services; it did not operate or manage ‘the
diagnosis, care, prevention, and treatment of human illness.’ (§ 1250.) St. Myers argues that without
the scheduling and billing services provided by Optum360, MTMC’s clinics would
be unable to operate. This may be an accurate observation, but it is not
relevant; a medical clinic needs power and water to operate, but that does not
make utility companies ‘health facilities’ under the statute.” (St. Myers v.
Dignity Health, supra,
44 Cal.App.5th at pp. 313-314.) Plaintiff
does address the St. Myers case in the opposition. 
Here too, Plaintiff does
not appear to provide evidence that the NM Defendants are a 
“facility, place, or building that is
organized, maintained, and operated for the diagnosis, care, prevention, and treatment of human
illness, physical or mental, including convalescence and rehabilitation and
including care during and after pregnancy, or for any one or more of these
purposes, for one or more persons, to which the persons are admitted for a
24-hour stay or longer…” (Health
& Saf. Code, § 1250, emphasis added.) Plaintiff also does not
appear to provide evidence that the NM Defendants are a “facility licensed pursuant to Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 1250) that is any of the following: (1) Skilled nursing facility. (2)
Intermediate care facility. (3) Intermediate care facility/developmentally
disabled. (4) Intermediate care facility/developmentally disabled habilitative.
(5) Intermediate care facility/developmentally disabled-nursing. (6) Congregate
living health facility. (7) Nursing facility. (8) Intermediate care
facility/developmentally disabled-continuous nursing.” (Health
& Saf. Code, §1418, subd. (a), emphasis added.) Rather, Plaintiff
appears to solely rely on evidence that NMH provided support services to alleged health facilities. 
In addition, as noted
by the NM Defendants in the reply, Plaintiff does not appear to offer any evidence or argument in the
opposition to suggest that either NMHI or NMHL (the “Holding Companies”)
qualify as a health facility under the Health
and Safety Code.
Based on the foregoing,
the Court finds that the NM Defendants have met their burden of showing that
Plaintiff’s causes of action for violation of Health
and Safety Code section 1278.5 and Health and
Safety Code section 1432 have no merit as to the NM Defendants, and that Plaintiff has failed to
raise a triable issue of fact as to these causes of action.
C.    
Claim for Punitive
Damages  
Next, the NM Defendants contend that
Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages fails. The NM Defendants assert that Plaintiff cannot offer any
evidence to establish that the conduct of Mr. Villarreal,
Ms. Castillo, Ms. Anderson, or any other individuals, warrants punitive
damages. 
The NM Defendants
provide evidence that on
July 20, 2018, at approximately 11:30 a.m., a program participant fell to the floor while attempting
to push himself up from
his wheelchair. (Schwan
Decl. ¶ 8, Ex. I at p. 3) Plaintiff called the
program participant’s house manager at 11:40 a.m. and explained the situation.
(Ibid.) Plaintiff explained that he was
going to call emergency services, and the house manager asked Plaintiff to wait
and indicated she would call back. (Ibid.)
At 11:45 a.m., the program participant’s house manager explained that the house
would pick up the program participant and transport him to the emergency room.
(Ibid.) 
Ms. Anderson states in
her declaration that “Tammi Castillo and I made the decision to terminate
Matthew Porpora’s employment because he did not call 911 when a Program
Participant with initials DM fell and hit his head on the floor.” (Anderson
Decl., ¶ 5.) Ms. Anderson states that “[i]n doing
so, I reviewed the ‘heads up’ email Porpora sent to me and others that day…the
Incident Report related to the Program Participant’s fall…and Justin
Villarreal’s notes of his investigation that he provided to Carol Barton…”
(Anderson Decl., ¶ 5.) 
The NM Defendants cite
to Tomaselli v.
Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1287, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[p]unitive damages
are appropriate if the defendant’s acts are reprehensible, fraudulent or in
blatant violation of law or policy. The mere carelessness or ignorance of the
defendant does not justify the imposition of punitive damages…Punitive damages
are proper only when the tortious conduct rises to levels of extreme
indifference to the plaintiff’s rights, a level which decent citizens should
not have to tolerate.” The NM Defendants assert that “there is no
evidence that rises to the level of ‘extreme indifference’ and Plaintiff is not
entitled to the disfavored punitive damages remedy…” (Mot. at p. 13:12-14.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiff asserts that there are triable issues on
malice, fraud, or oppression. Pursuant to Civil Code section 3294, subdivision
(a), “[i]n an action for the breach
of an obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” 
Plaintiff asserts that
“[i]n order to avoid triggering negative scrutiny or even reprimand from CCLD for failure to report or
care for the program participant,
the [sic] Anderson, Castillo and Barton developed a ‘911 call policy’ that
suddenly required emergency
services to be called for all head injuries (that allegedly occur at the
facility), regardless [sic] severity
despite CVS personnel having the practice of assessing injuries on a
case-by-case basis before
determining whether 911 should be called.” (Opp’n at p. 16:5-10.) Plaintiff
also asserts that “[t]he NMH
managers engaged in despicable and oppressive conduct by ratifying their QIS’ lie and then created a
‘911 call policy’ on an ad hoc basis to shift blame against Plaintiffs and vulnerable patient’s
rights.” (Opp’n at p. 16:14-16.)
With regard to the
evidence relied upon by Plaintiff in support of the foregoing, Plaintiff’s response
to the NM Defendants’ Undisputed Material Fact No. 23 provides, inter alia,
that “[a]ccording to NMH’s directors Anderson and Castillo, however, the policy
was supposedly to call 911 for all head injuries, regardless of severity. This
policy was created on an ad hoc basis by Anderson, Castillo and Ms. Barton to fire
Plaintiff and avoid regulatory body scrutiny. In contradiction to the ad hoc
created 911 call policy, the NMH managers carved an exception to the policy
where emergency services was not mandated when program participants injured
themselves (ie., their head) offsite from the facility.” In support of this
assertion, Plaintiff cites to the following testimony from Ms. Anderson’s
deposition: “Q…Would that have been appropriate by Mr. Villarreal to tell --
here you have a patient – didn’t happen at the facility, banged his head,
came with a bruising and Matt Porpora was going to call 911 and if it
were true Justin Villarreal told him not to call 911, is that
appropriate?...Q Is it appropriate and consistent with the company’s
policies?...Q And we’re looking at it. Head injuries, ‘When a head makes
contact,’ -- A In our facility -- these are our company policies when it happens
in our facility --
Q Hold on. Where does it say that?
Where does it say that? A Well, it’s our – it’s the company handbook. So -- Q Okay.
So we have to make that interpretation. Okay. So only if it happens –
A Well -- well, yeah because if
somebody comes to program -- if they come to our facility, that would indicate
that they did not bump their head in our facility. So I don’t know what another
facility’s, you know, policy is on head injuries. I don’t know. I
only know ours. Q Okay. So he bumped his head during transport and he’s
bruised, he brings him to facility. Because it didn’t happen at your facility,
does it change the severity of the situation of the head injury?...THE WITNESS:
No, we didn’t -- I mean, it doesn’t -- I mean, he’s -- if he’s got a head
injury, but this emergency protocol is followed when it happens in our
facility.” (Galvan Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. 2 (Anderson Depo.) at pp. 196:4-197:21.) 
            But
Plaintiff does not appear to cite to evidence demonstrating that the NMH
Defendants “created a ‘911 call policy’ on an ad hoc basis to shift blame
against [Plaintiff]…” (Opp’n at p. 16:15-16.) In the reply, the NMH Defendants
assert that “Plaintiff’s own testimony confirms that CVS utilized a 911 Policy
prior to and during the events at issue in this Lawsuit.” (Reply at p. 8:1-2.)
In support of this assertion, the NMH Defendants cite to the following testimony
from Plaintiff’s deposition: “Q…I believe I understood you to testify earlier
that if it happened at Horrigan Cole, and they hit their head, that you called
911. Now you’re saying that that’s not the Company’s policy and that you decide
based on the severity of it, you kind of make your own assessment? A. Yes. I
mean, the company policy is to call 911. However, depending on the severity of
injury, you may not need to call 911. You may call a party and decide that this
isn’t something you need to call emergency services for. There’s somewhat of a gray
area depending on the severity of the nature. Q. What is the gray area in the
company’s policy -- the written policies about whether to call 911 for a head
injury? A. Well, I’m not exactly sure. But I’m sure it depends on the nature of
the severity of the injury to call 911.” (Galvan Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. 1 (Porpora
Depo.) at p. 145:2-23.) 
            The
NM Defendants assert that “wrongful conduct at the heart of Plaintiff’s
punitive damages claim can be boiled down to his disagreement with the
application of the 911 Policy to his termination decision. California
Courts…hold that such conduct is not sufficient to warrant punitive damages.”
(Reply at p. 8:3-6.) The NM Defendants cite to Scott v.
Phoenix Schools, Inc. (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 702, 716, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he only evidence
of wrongful conduct directed toward Scott was her termination for an improper
reason. This evidence was insufficient
to support a finding of despicable conduct, because such action is not
vile, base or contemptible. Nor do we find this evidence shows a conscious and
deliberate disregard of plaintiff’s interests. Conscious disregard of rights is
conduct by a defendant who is aware of the probable dangerous consequences of
such conduct to plaintiff’s interests and wilfully and deliberately fails to
avoid those consequences.”
(Internal quotations omitted.)
Based on the foregoing,
the Court finds that the NM Defendants have met their burden of establishing
that Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages has no merit as to the NM
Defendants, and that Plaintiff has failed to show that a triable issue of
material fact exists as to his claim for punitive damages.[4]  
D.   
Plaintiff’s Claim
for Attorney’s Fees 
In the Complaint,
Plaintiff alleges that he is “entitled to recover prevailing party attorney’s
fees pursuant to the provision of the California Labor Code and by other
statutory entitlements.” (Compl., ¶ 50.) 
As to Plaintiff’s causes
of action for violation of Health and Safety Code
sections 1432 and 1278.5, the NM Defendants assert that “if the Court grants this Motion as to Plaintiff’s Health
& Safety Code claims, there would, of course, be no basis to obtain
attorney’s fees regardless.” (Mot. at p. 13:23-24.) As set forth above, the Court finds that the NM Defendants have
met their burden of showing that Plaintiff’s causes of action for violation of
Health and Safety Code section 1278.5 and Health and Safety Code section 1432
have no merit as to the NM
Defendants, and that
Plaintiff has failed to raise a triable issue of fact as to these causes of
action. Thus, the Court likewise grants the
NM Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication as to Plaintiff’s claim for
attorney’s fees in connection with the first and second causes of action. 
As to the fourth cause of action for wrongful termination in violation
of public policy, the NM Defendants cite to Gantt v. Sentry Insurance (1992) 1 Cal.4th 1083,
1100-1101 (overruled on other grounds), where the California Supreme Court noted that “[i]t would be obnoxious to the
interests of the state and contrary to public policy and sound morality
to allow an employer to discharge any employee … on the ground that the
employee declined to commit perjury, an act specifically enjoined by statute…Accordingly, we held that such
a discharge subject[s] the employer to liability for compensatory and punitive
damages under normal tort principles.” (Internal quotations and citations
omitted.) The NM Defendants assert that Plaintiff thus 
cannot
recover attorney’s fees or costs for his wrongful termination claim. 
But the NM Defendants do not cite to any holding in Gantt demonstrating that Plaintiff cannot recover
attorney’s fees or costs in connection with his wrongful termination claim. The Court does not find that the NM Defendants
have met their burden of demonstrating that Plaintiff’s claim for attorney’s
fees fails as to the fourth cause of action. 
 
Lastly, the NM Defendants
assert that “as to Labor Code § 1102.5, the
statute was amended effective January 1, 2021 to provide for a successful
plaintiff’s recovery of attorneys’ fees and costs. See Labor Code § 1102.5(j). However, prior to January 1,
2021, the statute did not provide for attorney’s fees or costs
and there is no indication in the statute or otherwise that the 2021 amendment
to the statute should apply retroactively.” (Mot. at p. 13:25-14:4, emphasis
omitted.) The NM Defendants note that the instant case was filed on July 21,
2020. (Schwan Decl. ¶ 2.) 
The “History” of Labor Code section 1102.5
provides that “Stats 2020 ch 344 § 2 (AB 1947)” is “effective January 1, 2021.” (Lab.
Code, § 1102.5.) The “Legislative
Counsel’s Digest” pertaining to AB 1947 provides that “[t]his bill would
authorize a court to award reasonable attorney’s fees to a plaintiff who brings
a successful action for a violation of the provisions described above.” (2020 Cal ALS 344, 2020 Cal AB 1947,
2020 Cal Stats. ch. 344.) The NM Defendants attach as Exhibit “A” to their
request for judicial notice a California
Senate Judiciary Committee Analysis, A.B. 1947 (2019-2020 Reg.
Sess.), which provides, “[t]he
bill is silent about its effect on pre-existing claims. In the absence of clear legislative intent to the contrary, a statute is presumed to operate
only prospectively. (Aetna Cas. & Sur. Co. v. Indus trial Acc. Commission (1947)
30 Cal.2d 388, 393.).” (NM Defendants’ RJN, Ex. A.) 
In
the opposition, Plaintiff asserts that “[b]efore the amendment, in any event,
there are instances of an award of attorney fees being awarded in connection
with Labor Code section 1102.5 whistleblower
statutory actions.” (Opp’n at p. 20:8-9.) In support of this assertion,
Plaintiff cites to Mathews v. Happy Valley Conference Center, Inc. (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th
236, 266, where the Court
of Appeal noted that “Defendants’ challenge to
the attorney’s fee award is foreclosed by our conclusion that substantial
evidence supports the jury’s single employer finding. Their attorney’s fees
argument depends on reversal of both the Title VII and FEHA verdicts, and by
affirming Title VII liability we also affirm plaintiff’s legal entitlement to
attorney’s fees (defendants do not challenge as excessive the amount of the fee award)…As defendants
challenge only plaintiff’s legal entitlement to fees, and plaintiff was
entitled to attorney’s fees under Title VII, defendants have not demonstrated
error in the attorney’s fee award.” (Emphasis omitted.) But Plaintiff does not
show that the Mathews Court found
that attorney’s fees were recoverable under Labor Code
section 1102.5 in that case. 
Based on the foregoing,
the Court grants the NM Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication as to
Plaintiff’s claim for attorney’s fees, except as to Plaintiff’s fourth cause of
action for wrongful termination in violation of public policy. 
Conclusion
For the foregoing reasons, the NM Defendants’ motion for summary
adjudication is granted as to Plaintiff’s first and second causes of action,
Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages, and Plaintiff’s claim for attorney’s
fees in connection with his first, second, and third causes of action. The NM
Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication of Plaintiff’s claim for attorney’s
fees in connection with the fourth cause of action is denied. 
The NM Defendants are ordered to provide notice of this ruling.
 
DATED:  November 9, 2023                          ________________________________
Hon. Rolf M.
Treu 
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


