 Case Number:  22TRCV00865    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  M 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. M




 
PHILADELPHIA
  INDEMNITY INSURANCE COMPANY, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV00865
 




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  Ruling
 




 
KALADAR
  CO., INC., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                         October 24,
2023
 
Moving Party:                         Plaintiff Philadelphia
Indemnity Insurance Company
Responding Party:                  None
Applications for Right
to Attach Order and Issuance of Writ of Attachment
            
            The court considered the moving and
reply papers.
RULING
            The motion is CONTINUED to ______________
to allow defendants to file their opposition and for the court to consider.
BACKGROUND
            On September 28, 2022, plaintiff
Philadelphia Indemnity Insurance Company filed a complaint against Kaladar Co.,
Inc. dba Cal Auto Net and Mehdi Omrani for breach of contract. 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
“Upon the filing of the complaint
or at any time thereafter, the plaintiff may apply pursuant to this article for
a right to attach order and a writ of attachment by filing an application for
the order and writ with the court in which the action is sought.”  CCP § 484.010.
The application shall be executed
under oath and must include:  (1) a
statement showing that the attachment is sought to secure the recovery on a
claim upon which an attachment may be issued; (2) a statement of the amount to
be secured by the attachment; (3) a statement that the attachment is not sought
for a purpose other than the recovery on the claim upon which the attachment is
based; (4) a statement that the applicant has no information or belief that the
claim is discharged or that the prosecution of the action is stayed in a
proceeding under the Bankruptcy Act (11 U.S.C. section 101 et seq.); and (5) a
description of the property to be attached under the writ of attachment and a
statement that the plaintiff is informed and believes that such property is
subject to attachment.  CCP § 484.020.
“The application [for a writ of
attachment] shall be supported by an affidavit showing that the plaintiff on
the facts presented would be entitled to a judgment on the claim upon which the
attachment is based.”  CCP § 484.030.
The court shall issue a
right to attach order if the court finds all of the following:
(1)   The claim upon which
the attachment is based is one upon which an attachment may be issued.
(2)   The plaintiff has
established the probable validity of the claim upon which the attachment is
based.
(3)   The attachment is not
sought for a purpose other than the recovery on the claim upon which the
attachment is based.
(4)   The amount to be
secured by the attachment is greater than zero.
CCP § 484.090.
            “A claim has
‘probable validity’ where it is more likely than not that the plaintiff will
obtain a judgment against the defendant on that claim.”  CCP § 481.190.
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff Philadelphia Indemnity
Insurance Company seeks a right to attach order and an order for issuance of
writ of attachment against defendants Kaladar Co., Inc. dba Cal Auto Net and
Mehdi Omrani for $93,031.75, which includes $3000 in costs and $15,000 in
attorney’s fees.
            The complaint alleges that on May 6,
2013, defendants executed a Motor Vehicle Dealer Bond Application and Indemnity
Agreement in favor of plaintiff.  On
April 25, 2016, plaintiff made, executed, and delivered a dealer surety bond in
the sum of $50,000 to the California Department of Motor Vehicles under Vehicle
Code §11710.  On June 2021 and November
2021, defendants, as indemnitors, were required to hold plaintiff harmless and
indemnify plaintiff against any claim made against the bond but defendants did
not do so.  Multiple claims were filed
against plaintiff by alleged victims under the bond arising from alleged
misconduct by defendants concerning the sale of motor vehicles.  Plaintiff gave defendants notice of each
claim and demanded that defendants furnish facts to support a defense, to
defend or pay the claims and hold plaintiff harmless.  Plaintiff remitted payment in the penal sum
of the bond as follows:  $40,000 to Vonda
Morris on June 4, 2021 and $10,000 to Noe Flores Gutierrez on November 17,
2021.  Plaintiff remitted attorney’s fees
and costs in the sum of $13,856.96 for defense of the bond.  Plaintiff suffered damages for breach of the
agreement in the sum of $63,856.96 with interest plus $14,367.81 in collection
agency fees.
            This motion is based on a claim for breach
of a Motor Vehicle Dealer Bond Application and Indemnity Agreement.  To establish a claim for breach of contract,
a plaintiff must prove: (1) existence of a contract, (2) plaintiff’s
performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach of the
contract, and (4) damages incurred by plaintiff as a result of the breach.  Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183
Cal. App. 4th 1350, 1367.
            Plaintiff submitted a declaration
from Robin Wilcox, Claim Examiner, Surety Division and custodian of records for
plaintiff, which states that plaintiff is an admitted surety insurer and
furnishes bonds and undertakings to parties who have executed an express
indemnity agreement.  Among the bonds
typically furnished by plaintiff are license bonds including bonds in the penal
sum of $50,000 required by auto dealers under Vehicle Code §11710.  The purpose of said bonds is to protect
victims of misconduct committed by auto dealers.  Robin Wilcox decl., ¶1.  On April 14, 2016, defendants executed an
Indemnity Agreement in favor of plaintiff. 
The general indemnity agreement (Complaint, Exh. A) required that
defendants indemnify and hold plaintiff harmless against any claim brought
against plaintiff by an alleged victim of misconduct committed by Kaladar Co.,
Inc. dba Cal Auto Net.  The indemnity
agreement covers all losses incurred by plaintiff.  The agreement authorized plaintiff to decide
whether to pay, compromise, or appeal any claim against a bond.  Para. 6 of the indemnity agreement
states:  “Principal agrees that
Philadelphia have the exclusive right to decide whether to pay, compromise, or
appeal any claim against a Bond.”  Id., ¶2,
Exh. A.  On April 25, 2016, plaintiff
made, executed and delivered a dealer surety bond in the sum of $50,000 to the
DMV.  Id., ¶3.  Thereafter, defendants obtained a DMV license
and commenced doing business as a motor vehicle dealer in Fullerton,
California.  Id., ¶4.  
            Plaintiff also presents evidence
that it received three claims against the bond from consumers who purchased
allegedly defective used vehicles from Kalador. 
The claimants, Vonda Morris, Jorge A. Corcio, and Noe Flores Gutierrez,
filed civil actions against plaintiff. 
In response to providing defendants with notice of the first claim
(Corcio), the attorney for Kaladar responded to plaintiff.  When the second claim came in (Morris),
plaintiff sent email notice to Kaladar’s attorney and also mailed noticed to
defendants because plaintiff had no email address for defendants.  In response to that notice, Kaladar’s
attorney responded to plaintiff.  The
Gutierrez claim was the third claim and was received after the Morris claim was
settled and closed.  Id., ¶5.  Kaladar’s attorney asserted to plaintiff that
defendants had defenses to the claims including the contention that the
vehicles were sold “as is” and that the sales agreements were subject to
binding arbitration.  The sale of
vehicles “as is,” however, cannot be asserted to avoid a dealer’s liability to
buyers of used vehicles that have defects which have not been expressly
disclosed.  Also, an arbitration clause
in a motor vehicle contract cannot be asserted by a license bond surety to
compel a consumer to arbitrate his/her claim against plaintiff.  Plaintiff was willing to permit defendants to
assert their alleged defenses as counsel for plaintiff in the Vonda Morris
action.  Id., ¶6.   Plaintiff tendered defense of the Vonda
Morris action to defendants by email on March 2, 2020, demanding that the
tender of defense agreement be signed and returned by March 7, 2020.  Defendants signed and returned the tender of
defense on March 13, 2020.  The tender
acceptance was late, and plaintiff had retained its own counsel to defend the
Morris action.  Plaintiff is unaware of
any steps taken by defendants to resolve the Corcio action or the Gutierrez
action.  Id., ¶7.  Plaintiff’s attorney obtained dismissal of
the Corcio action.  Id., ¶8.  Plaintiff’s counsel evaluated and determined
the Vonda Morris claim was valid and recommended to plaintiff to pay $40,000 to
settle the action.  Plaintiff remitted
$40,000 to Morris on June 4, 2021.  Id., ¶9.  The Gutierrez claim substantially exceeded
$10,000.  Plaintiff’s attorney evaluated
and determined the Gutierrez claim was valid and recommended to plaintiff to
pay $10,000.  Plaintiff remitted $10,000
to Gutierrez on November 17, 2021.  Id., ¶10.  Plaintiff received fee statements and
remitted to plaintiff’s attorney fees and costs in the sum of $13,856.96 for
defense of the bond in the civil actions. 
Id., ¶11.  Pursuant to the terms
of the indemnity agreement, there is now due and owing the sum of $63,856.96
together with interest in the sum of $11,174.79 from November 2021.  The indemnity agreement provides for recovery
of attorney’s fees.  Plaintiff is
required to pay contingency attorney’s fees to plaintiff’s counsel in the
amount of $15,006 (20%).  Plaintiff
estimates that it will incur costs in the sum of $3000, including bond fees,
reporter fees, and witness fees.  Id., ¶12.  
            In the reply, plaintiff responded to
defendants’ opposition.  The opposition
does not appear in eCourt, however.  The
court also notes that on October 20, 2023, defendants filed a supplemental
declaration from defendants’ attorney asserting that defendants served
discovery on October 9, 2023 requesting that plaintiff “identify and produce
evidence to support its position that it properly defended and settled the two
underlying claims.”
            The hearing is CONTINUED to allow
defendants to file their opposition and for the court to consider.
            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of the ruling.
 