 Case Number:  19TRCV00310    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  M 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. M




 
CAROL
  JEAN THOMPSON, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
19TRCV00310




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
DELMAR
  JAMES MCENTYREe, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                         October 24, 2023
 
Moving
Parties:                      Receiver Stephen J. Donell
Responding Party:                  None
Motion for Order
Establishing Procedure for the Resolution of Claims 
 
            The court considered the moving and
reply papers.  No opposition was filed. 
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED.  Receiver Stephen Donell is authorized to
resolve any potential claims against the McEntyre Family Properties LLC
pursuant to the claims resolution procedures proposed in the motion.  Donnell is to submit a proposed order.
BACKGROUND
On March 27, 2019, Carol Jean
Thompson, derivatively on behalf of McEntyre Family Properties, LLC, filed a
complaint against Delmer James McEntyre for partition and declaratory relief.
            On June 4, 2019, plaintiff filed a
FAC.
On July 23, 2019, defendant Delmer
James McEntyre filed a cross-complaint for breach of contract. 
On September 3, 2019, the court
found the herein case related to YC072864 and YC072863. 
On September 30, 2020, plaintiff
filed an amendment designating Mary Elaine Henry-Tavares as Doe 1. 
On August 10, 2021, the court
granted the motion for appointment of receiver. The court ordered the parties
to meet and confer on proposed receiver Stephen Donell. Moving party was to
file the proposed receiver’s CV and proposed rates. 
On August 23, 2021, the court
entered the order appointing receiver Stephen Donell over the McEntyre Family
Properties LLC (the "LLC") and granted him with additional duties,
including to list and market the properties for sale with a real estate broker,
and with prior court approval, to sell the properties at 2905 and 2909 North
Sepulveda Blvd., Manhattan Beach.
On November 9, 2022, receiver
Donell filed a status report stating that the property has been listed for sale
with a highly qualified local broker.
On December 2, 2022,
cross-complainant filed a status report stating that the parties and receiver
agreed that due to the current real estate market further efforts should be
delayed until after the new year.
On May 8, 2023, the court confirmed
the sale of the property for $4,415,000.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
“The function of the receiver is to
aid the court in preserving and managing the property involved in a particular
lawsuit for the benefit of those to whom it can ultimately be determined to
belong.”  City of Sierra Madre v.
SunTrust Mortgage, Inc. (2019) 32 Cal. App. 5th 648, 656. 
            “[C]ourt rulings on receivership
matters are afforded considerable deference on review.   Such
deference is the rule, even where the court confirms extraordinary action by
the receiver. . . .”  City of Santa
Monica v. Gonzalez (2008) 43 Cal.4th 905, 931 (citation omitted). Thus,
“[w]here there is no evidence of fraud, unfairness, or oppression, the court
has wide discretion in approving the receiver's proposed actions.”  County of Sonoma v. U.S. Bank (2020)
56 Cal. App. 5th 657, 671.
DISCUSSION
            Stephen
J. Donnell, the court-appointed receiver, requests an order establishing a
procedure for the resolution of the claims of the parties to this action
against McEntyre Family Properties, LLC in order to facilitate the efficient
administration of the receivership estate. 

            Donnell
states in his declaration that the sale of the property closed on July 10,
2023, and the resulting net proceeds amount to $4,176,904.74, which are being
held by Donell.  Stephen Donell decl., ¶5.  Donnell seeks to distribute the funds of the
LLC and windup the receivership.  Id., ¶6.  Donnell further states that the funds of the
LLC cannot be distributed until any potential claims against the LLC have been
resolved.  Id., ¶9.  Donnell proposes the following claim
procedure: 
1.    
Promptly after the Court shall have filed an order
establishing a claims resolution procedure, the Receiver shall serve notice of
entry of that order on all parties by email and first class mail. All parties
have 30 days from the date of service of a notice of entry of the order
establishing a claims resolution procedure to submit to the Receiver and serve
on all other parties a written statement of that party's claims against the LLC
(a "Statement of Claim"). The Statement of Claim shall include only
the claimant’s claims against the LLC and no other person or entity. The
Statement of Claim shall be accompanied by all documents or other evidence
supporting the party's claim and by a short statement of the facts and legal
authorities supporting the claim.


2.    
The Statement of Claim may be sent to the Receiver
and served on all other parties by hand delivery, first class mail, by
facsimile transmission or by email. All Statements of Claim shall be submitted
to the Receiver, with a copy to the Receiver's counsel, at the following
addresses:

Stephen J. Donell, Receiver
FedReceiver,
Inc.
12121
Wilshire Blvd., Suite 1120
Los
Angeles, California 90025
 
Telephone:
(310) 207-8481
E-mail:
steve.donell@fedreceiver.com 

With a copy to: 
 
Bennett
G. Young, Esq.
Jeffer
Mangels Butler & Mitchell LLP
Two
Embarcadero Center, 5th Floor
San
Francisco, California 94111
 
Telephone:
(415) 398-8080
E-mail:
byoung@jmbm.com


3.    
The Statement of Claim must be actually received by
the Receiver on or before 5:00 pm PDT on the date that is 30 days after the
date of service of a notice of entry of the order establishing a claims
resolution procedure (the "Claims Deadline"). If the date that is 30
days after the date of service of such notice of entry is a Saturday, Sunday or
court holiday, the Claims Deadline shall be 5:00 pm PDT on the next day that is
not a Saturday, Sunday or court holiday.


4.    
Any Statement of Claim that is not received by the
Receiver on or before the Claims Deadline shall be forever barred. The notice
of entry of the order approving this Stipulation shall contain a statement of
the Claims Deadline.


5.    
The Receiver shall notify all parties of his receipt
of a Statement Claim within three business days of his receipt of such
Statement of Claim (“Receiver Claim Receipt Date”). Notice shall be made via
email to all parties.


6.    
Any party may within 30 days after the Receiver
Claim Receipt Date submit to the Receiver and serve on the other parties a
written statement supporting or opposing a Statement of Claim submitted by any
other party. Such statement shall be accompanied by all documents or other
evidence supporting the party’s position and by a short statement of the facts
and legal authorities supporting the party’s position.


7.    
The Receiver shall review all timely submitted
Statements of Claim and all materials submitted by the parties supporting or
opposing a Statement of Claim submitted by any other party. The Receiver shall
conduct such investigation and review of the Statements of Claim as the
Receiver, in his discretion, deems appropriate. The Receiver may meet and
confer with any party to discuss, inquire or further investigate any claim in
furtherance of his duties.


8.    
No later than 60 days after the Claims Deadline the
Receiver shall file with the Court and serve on the parties his written report
and recommendation to the Court whether to accept or reject a Statement of
Claim. The Receiver’s report and recommendation shall include a written
statement of the reasons for the Receiver’s position.


9.    
Any party may file an objection to the Receiver's
report and recommendation. Any such objection shall be filed with the Court and
served on the parties no later than 30 days after the date of service of the
Receiver's recommendation. If a party timely objects, the claimant and the
objecting party will litigate the issues before the Court. If no party timely
objects to the Receiver's recommendation regarding a particular Statement of
Claim, any objection to that aspect of the Receiver's report and recommendation
shall be deemed waived and the Receiver may submit a proposed order to the
Court consistent with the Receiver's recommendation for the treatment of that
Statement of Claim.


10.  The
Receiver may negotiate and enter into settlement agreements with any party
settling such party's claims against the LLC. All such settlement agreements
shall be subject to approval of the Court.
 
 
The court
rules as follows:  The Order Appointing
Receiver grants the Receiver the powers “[t]o do all things and incur the risks
and obligations ordinarily incurred by owners, managers, and operators of
similar properties.  To take any action which,
prior to the entry of this Order, could have been taken by the officers,
directors, partners, managers, members, trustees and agents of the LLC. . . .
To pursue, resist, defend, and/or settle all suites, actions, claims, and
demands which may now be pending or which may be brought by or asserted against
the Receivership Estate and/or the LLC, provided that any settlement must be
approved in writing either by:  (a) all
LLC members; or (b) the Court.”  The court
approves the proposed claims resolution procedures, finding that they will
facilitate the expeditious administration of the receivership estate and
adequately and fully protect the rights of the parties and is in the best
interests of the receivership estate. 
Accordingly,
the motion is GRANTED.
            Receiver
Donell is ordered to give notice of ruling.