 Case Number:  22TRCV00843    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  M 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. M




 
ROBERT
  W. MATHEWS by and through his attorney in fact, NORBERT ROCK, et al.,  


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV00843




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
PALM
  CONSULTING SERVICES, INC., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                         October 24,
2023
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant Palm Consulting Services, Inc.
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Norbert Rock
Motion
for Judgment on the Pleadings
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion is CONTINUED to
_____________ to allow for a determination by Dept. 1 whether matter is more
appropriately decided by the probate court. 
The court refers the matter to Dept. 1.
BACKGROUND
            On September 22, 2022, plaintiffs
Robert W. Mathews, by and through his attorney in fact, Norbert Rock, and
Norbert Rock filed a complaint against Palm Consulting Services, Inc. and Amity
Care Inc. for (1) to void all contracts entered into by Mathews or on his
behalf executed after July 17, 2020 due to legal incapacity, (2) to void all
contracts entered into by Mathews or on his behalf executed after July 17, 2020
due to undue influence, (3) rescission and revocation of power of attorney, (4)
declaratory relief, (5) specific performance of oral contract for visits and
phone contact, and (6) elder financial abuse.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
CCP § 438 states, in relevant
part:  “(b)(1) A party may move for
judgment on the pleadings. . . . (c)(1) The motion provided for in this section
may only be made on one of the following grounds:  (A) If the moving party is a plaintiff, that
the complaint states facts sufficient to constitute a cause or causes of action
against the defendant and the answer does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a defense to the complaint. 
(B) If the moving party is a defendant, that either of the following
conditions exist: . . . . (ii) The complaint does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action against that defendant.”  
A motion for judgment on the
pleadings “has the purpose and effect of a general demurrer.”  Smiley
v. Citibank (s.D.), N.A. (1995) 11 Cal. 4th 138, 146 (citation
omitted).  “[T]he trial court generally
confines itself to the complaint and accepts as true all material facts alleged
therein.  As appropriate, however, it may
extend its consideration to matters that are subject to judicial notice.  In this, it performs essentially the same
task that it would undertake in ruling on a general demurrer.”  Id.
(citations omitted).
DISCUSSION
            Defendant Palm Consulting Services,
Inc. requests that the court enter judgment on the pleadings in its favor on
the 1st, 2nd, 4th, and 6th causes
of action in the complaint on the ground that the complaint fails to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause or causes of action against defendant.
            The complaint alleges that plaintiff
Robert Mathews currently resides in Manhattan Beach, was born in 1932, and
suffers from ill health.  He has resided
most of his life in Germany.  Complaint, ¶3.  Plaintiff Norbert Rock resides in
Germany.  He is the attorney in fact for
Mathews, pursuant to a duly authorized, durable power of attorney, executed in
Germany, pursuant to German law, on February 12, 2016.  This power of attorney was certified for
international use on October 23, 2020. 
Rock is the son of the best friend of Mathews and his deceased wife and
has maintained a very close, personal relationship with Mathews since he was a
youth.  Id., ¶4.  Defendant Palm Consulting is the holder of a
subsequently executed power of attorney executed in California on June 16,
2021.  Id., ¶6.
            The complaint further alleges that
after Mathews’ wife deceased, Mathews continued to maintain a strong, fraternal
relationship with Rock, as a de facto stepson. 
Id., ¶13.  Mathews announced plans
to visit California.  He requested that
Rock maintain his estate interests in Germany, both while Mathews was present
in Germany and while he was visiting California.  To that end, Mathews executed a power of
attorney and health care proxy in favor of Rock in February 2016.  The POA is “durable” and of the highest
authenticity in Germany, sanctified in the German courts and certified for
international use in October 2020.  It
can only be revoked by a valid declaration of the principal, and where the
principal is incompetent, only invalidated or terminated by a formal order from
a German court.  Id., ¶14.  Rock managed Mathews’ affairs in Germany and
corresponded with him, both while Mathews was abroad in California and when he
was in Germany.  Id., ¶15.
            The complaint further alleges that
Mathews had an accident wherein he slipped and fell, striking his head, on July
17, 2020, while in California, necessitating his hospitalization.  Mathews was diagnosed with dementia while
hospitalized, and subsequently, while at Santa Monica Health Care Center on
December 8, 2020.  Id., ¶16.  Mathews subsequently attempted to negotiate
transactions concerning his accounts at Wells Fargo bank wherein he maintained
extensive cash accounts totaling more than $1 million.  Id., ¶17. 
Wells Fargo bank determined that Mathews may have been, or was not
competent, and referred him to their recommended attorney, Peter Goldberg, who
in turn referred Mathews to defendant Palm Consulting Services.  Id., ¶18. 
Notwithstanding that Mathews maintained full time health insurance
policy in Germany, including long term care and nursing care insurance, and
notwithstanding that Wells Fargo bank refused to allow Mathews to execute
transactions concerning his own assets, due to their concern about his mental
competency, Goldberg persuaded Mathews to sign an attorney-client fee agreement
and, thereafter, various testamentary documents and referred Mathews to Palm
Consulting Services who then improperly had Mathews sign their agreement for
consulting services and “durable power of attorney for management of property
and personal affairs” on June 16, 2021. 
Id., ¶19.
            The complaint further alleges that
in March 2020 and throughout this time, the US borders were closed to
international visitors due to Covid-19 pandemic and Rock could not visit
Mathews until November 2021.  Id., ¶20.  Although Rock had been conversing with
Mathews by telephone every Saturday, the phone service/access was also
terminated in 2021, leaving rock no choice but to come to the US when the
border re-opened.  Although Rock was
initially turned away when he came to physically visit Mathews at his town home
in Manhattan Beach, on November 16, 2021, he was eventually permitted to visit
Mathews, but only with multiple other persons present, and only once he
insisted.  Then in March 2022, when Rock
arrived, there was a note on the door informing Rock that he would not be
permitted to visit with or communicate by telephone with Mathews any longer.  Id., ¶21. 
Mathews, by this attorney in fact, is informed and believes that he has
been prevented, against his will, from going outside of his home or
communicating with outside parties, including Rock.  Mathews is further informed and believes that
he has executed a last will and testament, bequeathing his estate to third
parties of which he has no familiarity or knowledge, and no natural interest in
benefitting; that he has had a health care agreement executed in favor of
“Amity Care Services Inc.”; that his pension payments from Germany have been
routed to Palm Consulting Services and Amity Care Services and Mathews
meanwhile is being held captive in his Manhattan Beach townhome.  Id., ¶22.
            Under the 1st cause of
action to void all contracts due to legal incapacity, plaintiffs allege that
the German POA is still legally viable and authorizes Rock to act on Mathews’
behalf for all purposes; the POA was never revoked or terminated by competent
declaration; and the POA can only be terminated by a German court of competent
jurisdiction.  Id., ¶25.  Mathews was diagnosed with “unspecified
dementia,” rendering him legally incapacitated, unable to execute any legal
documents and susceptible to undue influence. 
Id., ¶26.  Amity is a party to a
caregiver agreement entered into on September 11, 2020, at a time Mathews was
incapacitated.  It is null and void as
Mathews was without legal capacity to enter into the agreement.  Id., ¶27. 
All other legal agreements entered into after July 17, 2020, including
the Durable Power of Attorney for Management of Property and Personal Affairs
in favor of Palm executed on June 16, 2021, any attorney client agreements
executed between Mathews and Goldberg, wills and trusts and other testamentary
and non-testamentary documents prepared on Mathews behalf and consulting
agreements with Palm and any other purported contracts executed by Mathews after
July 17, 2020 are legally void due to Mathews’ incapacity.  Id., ¶28.
            The 2nd cause of action
alleges the same and alleges undue influence.
            The 4th cause for
declaratory relief alleges that a true dispute exists as to whether the POA
executed in favor of Palm on June 16, 2021 is legally valid; a dispute also
exists as to whether plaintiff’s preexisting POA in favor of Rock, executed in
February 2016 remains valid and enforceable. 
Id., ¶42.  
            The 6th cause of action
for elder abuse alleges that defendants took advantage of Mathews as a result
of his disabled state.  Id., ¶51.  Defendants profited thereby at plaintiff’s
disadvantage.  Id., ¶52.
            The complaint alleges that
plaintiff(s) Rock, and Mathews by and through his attorney in fact Norbert
Rock, have standing to bring this action pursuant to Probate Code §§4540 and
4541.  Complaint, ¶24.
            Probate Code §4540 states in part, “Subject
to Section 4503, a petition may be filed under this part by any of the
following persons:  (a) The
attorney-in-fact. . . .”  
Under Probate Code §4541, “A
petition may be filed under this part for any one or more of the following
purposes: 
(a) Determining whether the power
of attorney is in effect or has terminated. . . .
(d) Declaring that the authority of
the attorney-in-fact is revoked on a determination by the court of all of the
following:
(1) The attorney-in-fact has
violated or is unfit to perform the fiduciary duties under the power of
attorney.
(2) At the time of the
determination by the court, the principal lacks the capacity to give or to
revoke a power of attorney.
(3) The revocation of the
attorney-in-fact’s authority is in the best interest of the principal or the
principal’s estate. . . .
(f) Compelling a third person to
honor the authority of an attorney-in-fact.”
            Under Probate Code §4542, “A
proceeding under this part is commenced by filing a petition stating facts
showing that the petition is authorized under this part, the grounds of the
petition, and, if known to the petitioner, the terms of the power of attorney.”
            See also Probate Code §4130(a), “If
a principal grants inconsistent authority to one or more attorneys-in-fact in
two or more powers of attorney, the authority granted last controls to the
extent of the inconsistency.”  See
Probate Code §§810-813 as to legal mental capacity.
            The matter puts in dispute the
principles and subject of probate court related matters, including, in
particular, Probate Code §§4130, 810 et seq., and 4540 and 4541.  
            Thus, in accordance with LA Court
Rule 3.2, the court refers the matter to Dept. 1 for review, consideration, and
determination by the supervising judge of civil as to whether the matter should
be assigned to the probate court. 
Probate Department of the Superior Court are courts of general
jurisdiction having all the same power and authority as provided to the
Superior Court.
            The motion is thus CONTINUED to
allow for Dept. 1 determination.
            Moving party is ordered to give
notice of ruling.